Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: Queen Mary University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 11 Computer Science

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
1.1 Unit context and structure: The 68.8 FTE staff in UoA11 are from the School of Electronic
Engineering and Computer Science (EECS), which was formed in 2008 through merger of the CS
and EE departments. EECS is run as a single administrative entity with no distinction between the
two pre-existing departments. Our vision is that research in the discipline speaks to both fundamental
science and the engineering of large-scale technological systems, and that linking these activities in
the same academic unit benefits both, though they remain reportable separately at REF (UoA11 and
UoA12) and by HESA (cost centres 119 and 121).

UoA11, like UoA12, has had great success delivering the REF2014 strategy to make QMUL the
premier institution for engineering, material and computer science research. The UoA11 REF2021
submission consists of all units of Computer Science and two additional EECS groups; the Centre
for Digital Music (C4DM) and Multimedia & Vision (MMV), which include computer science
oriented research under the umbrella of digital economy. This has been driven by expanding
expertise in the five groups submitted to Computer Science in REF2014 (Networks, Theory, Risk
Information Management, Cognitive Science, and Computer Vision). This submission also
includes two new groups (Game AI and the Operational Research Lab, Communications
Systems).

1.2 Key UoA11 achievements in REF2021
    • An increase of UoA11’s REF submitted staff headcount from 55 to 75.
    • Growth in annual PGR recruitment by 31% from 51 in 2013/14, and growth in PhD awards
       by 41% from 29 in 2013/14.
    • Current PGR population/staff FTE = 3.68 (Russell Group 90th Percentile for 2018/19 =3.03).
    • Growth in PGR training provision: EPSRC CDT in Media and Arts Technology renewed in
       2013/14 and 2019; two new EPSRC CDTs AIM, and IGGI (joint with York); a share in
       Wellcome Trust DTP; a QMUL/BBC funded CDT (DAME).
    • An active grant portfolio of £37.2m (89 grants; £541k/FTE).
    • Coordination of four EU projects (€12.2m), plus two ERC grants (£3.2m).
    • Major UKRI grants include FAST-IMPACt (£5.2m); PAMBAYESIAN (£1.5m); EARL (£2m).
    • Published 3,042 Scholarly Outputs (SciVal) = 44.2/FTE (@9/7/20)
    • Consultations with 24 different companies and founding/co-founding 13 new start-up
       companies.
    • 18 staff are Alan Turing Institute Fellows.

1.3 Strategy
1.3.1 Research strategy: Interdisciplinary research remains a key strategy and the spread of
collaborators has been considerably enhanced (§4.1). Staff appointments have been used to grow,
strengthen and deepen existing areas of research excellence or support the development of new
research opportunities, exemplified by the creation of the new research groups (18 new academics
§2.1) and the strengthening of all existing UoA11 groups with new academics (Table 2.1).

We have recognised the growing importance of AI and this is now a core thread that runs through
much of our research, with the creation of the GAME-AI group and with all other research groups
                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


embracing AI. This was aided by a major investment (2019/20) in 10 new academic staff in AI and
Data Science, with appointments across research groups. This strategy aligns with the UK-
Government Industrial Strategy White Paper (2017), the Royal Society and the RAEng (Hall &
Pesenti's) review that recommended more PhD places in AI/Machine Learning.

We have continued to enhance research in the Creative Industries sector (C4DM, COGSCI), which
is the UK’s fastest growing sector. Bazalgette's ‘Independent Review of the Creative Industries’
highlights the “importance of the music industry” as of "central importance to the UK's productivity
and global success". Exemplifiers are the recent AIM, IGGI and DAME CDT awards and new staff
recruitment (Table 2.1).

This strategy is derived through the interplay between the EECS Senior Management Team (SMT),
Research Group Heads (RGH) and Research Committee via the Head of School and the Director of
Research, and aligns with the QM2030 Strategy [REF5a].

Looking forward, our strategy for research growth, all of which cross group boundaries are focused
on the following areas:
    • Artificial Intelligence (all groups)
    • Autonomous systems (CIS, MMV, CSR, GAME)
    • Better modelling of human cognition (COGSCI, RIM, VISION, MMV, GAME)
    • Beyond 5G Systems (CSR, NETWORKS)
    • Creative Industries (GAME, C4DM, MMV, NETWORKS, CIS)
    • Cyber-physical systems & robotics (COGSCI, C4DM)
    • Data science (C4DM, NETWORKS, RIM)
    • Digital Health (MMV, RIM, CIS, COGSCI)
    • Multimodal environmental sensing (domestic, urban, natural, global) (CIS, C4DM)
    • Quantum systems (computing etc.) (THEORY).

We will increase industrial engagement through Innovate-UK, KTPs and KTAs and improve our
commercialisation of research through a revised frame of reference for the Industrial Board and
developing on-line events such as “Research Week 2020”, which attracted 285 attendees through
10 themed webinars.

1.3.2 Impact strategy: Impact, innovation and engagement are central to all UoA11 research
activity. Operational support is provided at Faculty and School levels by Impact Managers and
Faculty Impact Officers led by the Deputy Vice-Principal for Research and Innovation (position
launched 2018). Research commercialisation is supported by Queen Mary Innovations Ltd (QMI).
QMUL’s award winning Centre for Public Engagement (CPE) (§4.3) provides expertise and funding
for relevant impact generation activities [REF5a].

An Academic Impact Champion (Reiss) is responsible for identifying research with impact potential
and realising impact via a range of institutional support routes. Impact excellence is integrated into
staff induction, probation and annual appraisals, at all levels of seniority. Major impact activities are
recognised annually at QMUL’s Engagement and Enterprise Awards. Since 2014 UoA11 staff have
(§4.2):
    • held consultancies with 24 different companies,
    • founded/co-founded 13 new start-up companies, and
    • had 16 awarded patents, plus 15 currently filed.


                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Eight Impact Case Studies were shortlisted for REF submission and each involves successful, high
growth spin-out companies, including AIM-listed Actual Experience and LandR, an online music
mixing service with over 2.8m users. They demonstrate measurable impact on:
   • Policy (Causal Bayesian Reasoning, Actual Experience [UOA12]),
   • Law (SeeQuestor, Causal Bayesian Reasoning),
   • Societal behaviour (Psychology Online, Bela).

All involve disruptive innovations (e.g. Monoidics, LandR, Dragonfly [§1.4.9]), building on high
impact, transformative research. Additional research activities leading to spin-outs are listed in §4.2.
Looking forward, we will exploit the full potential impact of our research by tracking impact
opportunities and sharing best practices. Increasing collaboration across research groups, Schools
and Faculties will enable high impact activities that would not otherwise be achieved (e.g., DTP
Health Data in Practice with Blizard Institute; CDT DAME). Industrial collaboration will be enhanced
by maintaining strong links through increasing KTPs, placements from CDTs, enhancing our
Industrial Board (§4.2), plus spreading annual networking events to a wider audience, e.g. Faculty
Industry-Research Engagement days. We have recently increased our links with Tech Industry (e.g.
CDT IGGI), and have attracted nearly £1m in studentship donations.

In September 2020 QMUL launched a £15m investment to create the Digital Environment Research
Institute (DERI), supporting ambitions to maintain UK leadership in data science and AI [REF5a].
DERI builds on globally recognised expertise at QMUL, fostering new collaborations across all
Faculties and developing existing partnerships with key organisations including Barts NHS Trust and
Turing Institute. Its Director (Slabaugh, Professor of Computer Vision and AI) joined EECS from
Huawei Technologies R&D.

QMUL was recently awarded University Enterprise Zone (UEZ) status (one of twelve in the UK) with
£1.5m funding to enhance engagement and impact generation with innovative businesses within
East London, with a focus on Medical Technologies and Digital Health innovation [REF5a].

1.4 Research group summary and future strategy
1.4.1 Centre for Digital Music

 Academic Staff                                   12 (11.7 FTE)
 Professor                                        Bryan-Kinns, Dixon, Reiss, Sandler (0.7)
 Reader                                           McPherson
 Senior Lecturer                                  Fazekas, Stockman, Barthet, Benetos
 Lecturer                                         Phan, Saitis, Stowell
 Fellowships                                      4 EPSRC/RAEng Fellowships, 3 Turing
                                                  Fellows, one RS Wolfson Research Merit
                                                  Award, one FREng
 PGR Students                                     68
 Number Scholarly Outputs (Scival)                614; 52.5/FTE

C4DM is one of the world’s foremost multidisciplinary groups in the field of Music & Audio Research
and the UK’s leading Digital Music research group. Research covers everything in digital music and
audio: from analysis, understanding and retrieval, to delivery, synthesis, sound rendering, music
interaction and digital musical instruments.
                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Major achievements: C4DM led the EPSRC Programme grant FAST-IMPACt, bringing together
Nottingham University’s Mixed Reality Lab and Oxford University’s e-Research Centre, plus
international advisors and collaborators from industry and academia.

C4DM leads 3 full CDTs: MAT, renewed in 2013/14; AIM, new in 2019; and joint QMUL/BBC DAME
(2020). It has an EU PhD ITN, ‘New Frontiers in Music Information Processing’.

Bela has become a leading open-source hardware platform for creating interactive music systems
[REF3]. Open-source contributions include: Sonic Visualiser, widely used in corporate and academic
research, for music and audio analysis; Tony, for speech analysis; and Sonic Lineup for comparing
multiple performances. Commercialisation includes several successful spinouts, from Landr [REF3]
(valued >£25m) to Augmented Instruments Ltd (which seed-funded Bela via Kickstarter campaign)
to the Warblr birdsong app.

Future strategy: C4DM aspires to be the world’s best university research centre covering the widest
diversity of topics in the science and technologies of Music and Audio. To achieve this C4DM will
continue developing world-leading strengths in DSP, Semantic Web technology, and Music
Informatics. It will expand research in Audio Engineering, Augmented Instruments and Music-Human
Interaction. It will establish new themes, including:
    • Data Science for Music, Audio and Bioacoustics
    • AI for Music, including intelligent instruments
    • Music Computational Creativity, including machine-assisted creativity
    • Virtual and Computational Acoustics for immersive audio, instrument synthesis
    • Performance Science: scientific techniques to better understand musical performance
    • Multimodal Music and Audio Processing (with CIS).

CDTs MAT and AIM will be a significant force for achieving these aims.

For external partnerships C4DM will:
   • Enhance interactions with the Turing Institute, co-creating its AI for Arts theme.
   • Strategically partner with the BBC, and spread this across QMUL.
   • Continue collaborating with other world-leading centres such as McGill, NYU, Polimi,
       Georgia Tech, Barcelona and IRCAM.

1.4.2 Cognitive Science

 Academic Staff                             11 (9.2 FTE)
 Professor                                  Curzon (0.9), Healey, Lappin (0.2), Liakata (0.8),
                                            Poesio, Purver (0.5)
 Senior Lecturer                            Ma (0.8), Pearce
 Lecturer                                   Hough, Naeem, Zubiaga
 Fellowships                                2 British Academy Fellows, 4 Turing Fellows, one
                                            ERC Advanced Fellow
 PGR Students                               38
 Number Scholarly Outputs (Scival)          307; 33.4/FTE

COGSCI is a multi-disciplinary group that studies human cognition, action and interaction on scales
ranging from individual experience up to the languages, cultures and dynamics of whole societies.
                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


COGSCI combines empirical and computational methods and has critical mass in Human
Interaction, Natural Language Processing, Outreach and Education, and Social Data Science.
COGSCI is distinguished internationally by its focus on human-human interaction, understanding the
computational mechanisms at the heart of human capacities such as creativity and musical
appreciation and its outreach work.

Major achievements: COGSCI leads Computer Science for Fun (cs4fn) and world-leading public
engagement work, including the multi-award winning Clapping Music app (>350k downloads) and
the 2020 IEEE Computer Society Taylor L. Booth Education Award. COGSCI has a wide track record
of funding from AHRC, EPSRC, ERC, ESRC, MRC, Wellcome. Recent major grants include:
    • EMBEDDIA (£3m, H2020)
    • Health Data in Practice (£5.5m, Wellcome DTP - led by the School of Medicine and Dentistry
        (SMD))

COGSCI led a ‘Topics in Cognitive Science’ special issue on ‘Miscommunication’ in 2018, which was
selected as one of thirteen ‘Visions of Cognitive Science’ to mark the 40thanniversary of the Cognitive
Science Society. COGSCI regularly hosts international meetings including 2017’s 7thJoint Action
Meeting (JAM), 23rd Semantics and 2019’s Pragmatics of Dialogue Meeting.

Future strategy: COGSCI provides major opportunities for social and economic impact, especially
in healthcare where good communication is essential for diagnosis and treatment. This directly
addresses major UK policy priorities including the 2019 Topol Review, the NHS long-term plan, and
UKRI health and ICT research priorities. COGSCI is building on its high impact novel healthcare
technologies through new partnerships with Barts Health NHS and the Turing Institute’s Health
Programme. COGSCI promotes gender balance in CS and EE through its world-leading outreach
work §4.3, teacher training initiatives (e.g. CPD network ‘Teaching London Computing’) and advice
to government.

1.4.3 Communication Systems Research

 Academic Staff                                  7 (6.2 FTE)
 Professor                                       Nallanathan, Yang (0.2)
 Senior Lecturer                                 Bodanese, Elkashlan
 Lecturer                                        Jaber, Liu, Pan
 PGR Students                                    29
 Number Scholarly Outputs (Scival)               670; 108/FTE

CSR spans the areas of wireless communications and statistical signal processing, with emphasis
on communication theory, information theory, optimisation, machine learning and random graph
theory. CSR is internationally renowned for its contributions towards: 5G Networks; Internet of Things
(IoT); Bio-inspired Molecular Communications; and technologies developed to address practical
issues concerning multi‐gigabit wireless for mobile backhaul, energy efficient ultra‐dense small cells,
low latency wireless cloud access, self-organizing unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) and massive IoT
networks. CSR also specializes in the Internet of Nano Things, enabling connectivity between nano-
devices and bridging the gap between bio-signal processing and nano-precision healthcare.



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Major achievements: CSR was founded in 2017 and has grown to ten academic staff. Recent
projects include:
    • M3NETs: signal processing for massive machine-to-machine networks.
    • SENSE: full-duplex dense networks in scalable service provisioning.
    • MiMiWaveS: high speed millimetre wave communications for 5G.
    • SWIFT: energy harvesting for wireless powered communications.
    • MMIMO: massive MIMO enabled heterogeneous networks.

These projects link the group with UK and US governments and industrial partners (BT, InterDigital,
NPL, Huawei, Thales). Research outputs include >100 IEEE journal papers and 60 top conference
papers (CSR members receiving best paper awards in IEEE GLOBECOM’2017 and IEEE VTC’2018,
with Nallanathan named a AI2000 Internet of Things Most Influential Scholar in 2020).

Future strategy: 5G and beyond networks are considered a global game changer from
technological, economic, societal and environmental perspectives with very aggressive performance
levels in terms of latency, energy efficiency, wireless broadband capacity, elasticity etc. CSR will
tackle challenging research in reliable near-instant unlimited wireless connectivity, distributed
computing, context-dependent wireless connectivity and artificial intelligence for serving the
requirements of vertical applications. CSR aspires to be one of the top research groups for ‘beyond
5G’ research.

1.4.4 Game-AI

 Academic Staff                                9 (8.2 FTE)
 Professor                                     Colton (0.6), Cowling (0.6), Lucas
 Senior Lecturer                               Woodward, Perez
 Lecturer                                      Gow, Rauber, Rossi
 Research Fellow                               Cook
 Fellowships Held                              1 Turing Fellow
 PGR Students                                  22
 Number Scholarly Outputs (Scival)             282; 34.4/FTE

GAME uses games as a test-bed for AI research, and as a creative industries application domain
for advancing areas such as general game playing and computational creativity. It leads several
areas of General Video Game AI research, including the GVGAI framework and high-performance
statistical planning algorithms such as Rolling Horizon Evolution. Its work on automated game design
(e.g. ANGELINA) and procedural content generation is world-leading and has led to spin-out apps
such as WEVVA that introduced thousands of high-school students to code-free game design. It
collaborates with games industry partners such as Unity Technologies and Spirit AI in the
development of next-generation tools for game development (e.g. Danesh), and applies Game AI to
real-world applications.

Major achievements: Founded in 2017, GAME has grown to nine academic staff and more than 35
people and is the leading academic Game AI group in the UK (by staff, publications, citations and
best paper awards.) By applying advanced AI to real-world planning and optimisation problems
GAME was awarded five DSTL-funded projects (variously joint with Warwick, Nottingham, ITU
Copenhagen and an industry partner NSC). GAME’s genetic improvement software is used daily to
                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


fix bugs in mission-critical software. The Intelligent Games & Game Intelligence (IGGI) EPSRC CDT
(£3m for UoA11) was renewed in 2019. The group organised and hosted the first IEEE Conference
on Games in 2019, the largest academic conference in the world focussed on games and game AI
with >400 delegates.

Future strategy: The focus is on establishing QMUL as a world leader in the development and
application of Game AI to complex decision making and game design tools, and to build on significant
recent advances in learning world models and in efficient parameter tuning to increase the capability
of AI agents to learn to play or design a range of games. GAME's statistical forward planning
algorithms provide an inherently more explainable type of AI than pure deep-learning approaches
and work on forward model learning will enable applications to more real-world problems. Lucas is
taking a 1-year employment at Facebook (Dec 2020/21) to apply Game-AI to the Facebook platform.
GAME will lead the way in providing next-generation tools that enhance the skills of both expert
game developers and newcomers.

1.4.5 Multimedia and Vision

 Academic Staff                                 5 (4.3 FTE)
 Professor                                      Izquierdo, Patras
 Senior Lecturer                                Tzimiropoulos (0.3), Zhang
 Lecturer                                       Hao
 PGR Students                                   22
 Number Scholarly Outputs (Scival)              260; 60.5/FTE

MMV has made substantial contributions in several fields of multimedia signal processing (video
compression, visual information retrieval, and video analytics for security applications). MMV enjoys
research cooperation with key players from industry including Thales, BT, BBC, Huawei, United
Technologies, Philips, Telefonica, STMicroelectronics, Alcatel-Lucent Bell and Disney Research,
and key European research groups such as Fraunhofer/Germany and INRIA/France.

Major achievements: MMV developed an improved fully scalable video encoder and made several
contributions to MPEG standards. Related research was published in eight high impact IEEE
transactions papers and led to £2m funding from the EU, DTI and EPSRC. It developed effective
tools for content adaptation (up-sampling) and enhancement, and an improved, standard compliant,
high efficiency video encoder/decoder system for UHD services (The Turing Codec). This codec
exploits deep-learning technology, vastly outperforms state-of-the-art techniques, and has high
commercial potential. MMV also made inroads in video analytics for security applications, utilising
cooperation with Metropolitan Police and European police forces. MMV received over £3m funding
in six cooperative projects to address critical security application. The group organised the
prestigious IEEE Conferences Visual Communications and Image Processing (2017 and 2019), and
organised/hosted the largest IEEE Conference Multimedia (2000), attracting >600 delegates.

Future strategy: has three pillars:
   • Turing Codec and the recently completed Cognitus system will be exploited to strengthen
       cooperation with the BBC and potentially a joint research lab focused on future broadcasting
       industry needs. The technology is showcased in BBC’s ‘blue room’, enabling deeper

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


       cooperation and strengthening the QMUL-BBC data science partnership.
       (https://www.bbc.co.uk/rd/projects/cognitus).
   •   Deepen research on video analytics for security applications exploiting acquired partnership
       with police forces across Europe. Three large ongoing projects in the field will be used to
       enhance MMV’s research and to attract additional funding.
   •   Expanding ongoing work on histology image understanding for improved cancer treatment
       with key medical schools such as Karolinska/Sweden, La Sapienza/Italy and QMUL-Barts.

1.4.6 Networks

 Academic Staff                                11 (11 FTE)
 Professor                                     Uhlig
 Reader                                        Philips
 Senior Lecturer                               Mondragon-Ceballos, Poslad, Schormans,
                                               Tyson
 Lecturer                                      Antichi, Clegg, de Castro Arribas, Doyle,
                                               Gill
 Fellowships Held                              4 Turing Fellows
 PGR Students                                  30
 Number Scholarly Outputs (Scival)             346; 31.5/FTE

Networks is active in key areas of networking including Internet measurements, quality of service,
mobile communications, content delivery and network analysis. Networks has an international
reputation for excellence; its work is regularly published in prestigious venues such as ACM
SIGCOMM, IEEE INFOCOM, ACM IMC, ACM CoNEXT, WWW, IEEE ICNP, AAAI ICWSM and
premier IEEE/ACM Transactions (e.g. ToN, TPDS, TC, ToMM). Networks has been leading
evolution/development of the Big Data MSc, with significant investment in new staff for distributed
systems and Cloud computing research.

Major achievements: have been in the areas of data communications, Internet measurements, and
Big Data. Major grants on Software-Defined-Networking (SDN) include:
    • ENDEAVOUR (H2020 coordinator, €4.4m)
    • EARL (EPSRC, £2m, with Cambridge University).

Networks organised the premier conference in data communications, ACM SIGCOMM (2015), and
ACM SIGCOMM Internet Measurement conference (2017). These activities have significantly raised
the group’s International reputation, evidenced by Uhlig’s ACM SIGCOMM executive committee
membership; Editor-in-chief of SIGCOMM CCR journal; steering committee Chair of the Passive and
Active Measurements conference; TPC chair of IFIP Networking 2019 and IEEE ICNP 2019. The
group leads a very successful MSc in Data Science (>100 students/yr).

Future strategy: The group will establish itself as one of the world-leading groups in Internet
measurements, and one of the top UK research groups in data networking. The strategy is to lead,
building on recent successes, in areas such as SDN, Internet measurements, Cloud and Big Data.




                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


1.4.7 Risk and Information Management

 Academic Staff                                   7 (6.5 FTE)
 Professor                                        Fenton (0.7), Neil (0.8)
 Senior Lecturer                                  Constantinou, Marsh, Roelleke, Smeraldi
 Lecturer                                         Hsu
 Fellowships Held                                 5 Turing Fellows
 PGR Students                                     11
 Number Scholarly Outputs (Scival)                161; 24.8/FTE

RIM conducts interdisciplinary research on problems of decision-support under uncertainty in applied
areas (health, law and forensics, transport safety, finance, and cybersecurity). It works with domain
experts and uses methods from CS, statistics, machine learning, and psychology to solve challenges
presented by scale, complexity and variability. RIM is world-leading in its development of causal
modelling algorithms and applications (Bayesian networks), and its unique combination of data-
centric methods with hypothesis-driven approaches in which the power of advanced computing and
data analytics is combined with the insights of human expert judgements, especially with respect to
causal factors. RIM has coined this the ‘smart-data’ approach.

Major achievements: Major grants include:
   • BAYES-KNOWLEDGE (ERC Advanced Grant, €1.7m)
   • PAMBAYESIAN (EPSRC Digital Healthcare Technologies Project, £1.6m)
   • Bayesian Artificial Intelligence for Decision Making under Uncertainty (EPSRC UKRI
       Innovation Fellowship, £0.6m).

Outputs from this research are exploited by Agena (directors Fenton/Neil), who have incorporated it
into their widely used software platform [REF3]. RIM members have acted as expert witnesses in
major criminal and civil trials, and invited to speak in the UK Parliament and the International Criminal
Court in The Hague. Fenton led the six-month Isaac Newton Institute Cambridge Programme in 2016
on Probability and Statistics in Forensics. Fenton and Neil’s book ‘Risk Assessment and Decision
Analysis with Bayesian Networks’ has proven to be exceptionally important in decision science with
752 Google Scholar citations (@2/12/2020). RIM’s extensive network of collaboration with clinicians
and other medical experts has led to the ‘smart-data’ approach being evaluated and adopted in a
range of areas such as trauma care, diabetes and rheumatoid arthritis.

Future strategy: A quiet ‘causal revolution’ is taking place within the data science and empirical
science community. Turing Award winner Judea Pearl’s message is that big data and machine
learning’s algorithms can only learn ‘associations’ and hence are insufficient for true AI which
requires learning of ‘interventions’ and ‘counterfactuals’ via causal models and expert knowledge.
Essentially RIM’s ‘smart-data’ approach, this is beginning to resonate with researchers who
previously assumed that Big Data alone could be sufficient. At the causal revolution forefront, RIM
is unique in developing practical algorithms/methods that enable causal modelling to solve real-world
risk and decision-making problems. RIM will apply these methods in critical applications where either
expert judgement alone or data alone are used. It will continue working on law and forensics, and
cybersecurity, especially focusing on medical decision-making, extending partnerships in large-scale
projects and targeting a range of chronic conditions.

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


1.4.8 Theory Group

 Academic Staff                                   8 (6.7 FTE)
 Professor                                        Distefano (0.2), Malacaria, Robinson
 Reader                                           Oliva, Riis
 Senior Lecturer                                  Tzevelekos
 Lecturer                                         Rezaei-Khouzani, Tautschnig (0.5)
 Fellowships held                                 1 ERC starting grant
 PGR Students                                     7
 Number Scholarly Outputs (Scival)                120; 17.9/FTE

THEORY is a world-leading centre for research on logical methods for reasoning about computer
systems. Its work has spearheaded several developments – separation logic, logic for continuous
systems, information theory for security, process types for web services, game semantics for
programming languages – in which novel theoretical developments have been brought to bear in
new application areas. Its Infer open-source software has enabled automatic verification of memory
violations and is used by leading companies (including Amazon, Spotify, Uber, Mozilla) [REF3]. It
has made fundamental contributions in pure logic (model theory, proof theory, categorical
semantics), complexity theory and computational linguistics.

Major achievements: the group’s work has won many test-of-time awards and major prizes
including:
    • POPL Most Influential Paper: 2019 Distefano, 2018 Kohei Honda
    • ETAPS2019 Test of Time Award: Honda
    • OOPSLA2018: Distefano
    • LICS2018: Honda
    • Alonzo Church Award for Outstanding Contributions to Logic and Computation (2017):
        Malacaria
    • Royal Academy of Engineering Silver Medal: Distefano.

Alumni have received significant awards - O’Hearn (FRS, FREng), Martin (FREng, CBE). Theory
has an ERC Starting Grant and is a partner in an EPSRC Programme Grant. It has successfully
developed close contacts with industry, and some of its academics work part-time in industry to apply
their research - Distefano (Facebook), Tautschnig (Amazon Web Services), Yorsh [2013-19] (Jane
Street).

Future strategy: To concentrate on areas where potential application helps motivate and guide
top-quality foundational research. These include applications in cybersecurity, systems engineering,
and the structure of social interaction. It will seek to maximise impact through its industry links (e.g.
Facebook, IBM, Microsoft, BAE Systems and Google), and its involvement in both EPSRC/GCHQ
research institutes in Cybersecurity. It will strengthen its wide-ranging research team, working on
Logic, Combinatorics, Information Theory and Game Semantics, applying its research to solve
crucial problems such as the quality and certification of software, and systems analysis.




                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


1.4.9 Vision Group

 Academic Staff                                   5 (5 FTE)
 Professor                                        Cavallaro, Gong
 Senior Lecturer                                  Hansard
 Lecturer                                         Oh, Wang
 Fellowships Held                                 2 Turing Fellows
 PGR Students                                     23
 Number Scholarly Outputs (Scival)                281; 56.4/FTE

VISION is world-leading in work on person re-identification in multi-camera networks and
internationally influential on zero-shot learning, domain transfer learning and deep learning for object
recognition, sketch analysis, and multi-camera multi-object tracking. Internationally recognised
research on object recognition with privacy by design, multi-modality intelligent sensing, and on
visual saliency modelling, have been applied to vehicle and people detection, object tracking, crowd
analysis, people search in public space CCTV, law enforcement agency video forensic analysis, and
for commercial advertising.

Major achievements: Research is funded by a range of grants from government to industry,
including: EU, TSB, EPSRC, EPSRC-MOD CASE, Innovate UK, Royal Society Newton Advanced
Fellowship, Turing Institute, as well as industry with FBK on Audio-Visual Sensing, OMRON on
sketch retrieval for mobile, SeeQuestor Deep Learning for Video Analysis. The Dragonfly spin-out is
an AI bio-inspired predictive visual analytics software solution enabling the analysis and identification
of what will grab a human’s attention, with major clients in commercial advertising. VISION became
the first Nvidia Deep Learning Supercomputer Research Site in Europe, with two Nvidia DGX1s
deployed (2016), underpinning its deep learning research in computer vision.

VISION’s person re-identification research won the 2019 Bruce Dickinson Entrepreneur of the Year
Award, and the 2019 QMUL Innovation Award. The group’s Impact Case Study, built on its patents
and software has:
   • Won a Global Frost & Sullivan Award for Technical Innovation for Law Enforcement Video
       Forensics Technology (2017).
   • Won a 2017 Aerospace Defence Security Innovation Award for "revolutionary solution to
       reviewing CCTV footage".
   • Contributed to winning a major commercial contract on law enforcement post-event video
       forensics and analysis deployed across > 40 UK police forces.

Future strategy: Produce effective widely used computer vision and machine learning models for
understanding and analysing perception, human actions and interactions from visual data, and multi-
sensory and multi-source heterogeneous Big Data. Develop machine learning and deep neural
networks for large-scale visual recognition problems, with increasing awareness to privacy concerns,
distributed data and user data protection. Develop deep learning for multi-view scene analysis, visual
sensor networks and visual recognition in distributed internet of things, and on industrial funding to
develop existing work in human detection and interpretation of interactions.




                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


1.5 Research centres

We have two formally constituted Research Centres offering cross-fertilisation across the wider
QMUL community and industry.

1.5.1 Centre for Intelligent Sensing (CIS) focuses on models to analyse streams of high-
dimensional data from cameras, microphones, wearable sensors, smartphones, and robots that can
sense their surroundings. The core disciplines of CIS are computer vision, machine listening, tactile
sensing, and natural language processing. CIS applies AI and machine learning to interpret sensor
data while accounting for user privacy.

Major achievements: Leads the project CORSMAL (Collaborative object recognition, shared
manipulation and learning), supported by the EU Future and Emerging Technologies (FET)
programme through the CHIST-ERA co-operation of national research funding organisations. Leads
the cross-Faculty initiative on sensing and privacy with the Schools of Law and Business and
Management.

The Erasmus Mundus Joint Doctoral Programme in Interactive Cognitive Environments is a
collaboration with four leading European Universities. It led to a joint PhD degree with Genoa
University (first of its kind in ICT). CIS collaborates with industry (Honeywell, Thales, CEA, and
Aselsan) through the Marie Curie Industry-Academia Pathways and Partnerships project CENTAUR,
and the Innovate UK/ARTEMIS project COPCAMS. The COPCAMS object tracker ranked first
among online trackers in the international evaluation ‘Multiple Object Tracking Benchmark’
(MOT2016). CIS contributes to the sensing tasks of the National Centre for Nuclear Robotics.

Future strategy: Focusing on strengths in physical analytics through multiple modalities (visual,
sound, touch, motion, text) using advanced machine learning methods, it will exploit the
pervasiveness of sensors in everyday devices and mobile robots to enable personalised services.
To maximise impact through industry links and involvement in international collaborative projects
and continue organising specialist training and knowledge dissemination activities for PGR’s
(including the annual Intelligent Sensing Summer School and commercialisation boot-camps).

1.5.2 qMedia: Established in 2009 as a unified brand for our research in Audio, Music, Video, Media
& Arts, Interaction Design and Cognitive Science, while providing a collaboration forum for cognate
research in Humanities and Social Science (e.g. Film and Drama).

Major achievements: Forged strong links with MPEG standardisation and has successfully
published research into Ontologies as MPEG Standards. The qMedia Research Manager
(Kudumakis) was Chair of the UK delegation to MPEG, appointed by the BSI. Recent activities
include the Media Value Chain Ontology (MVCO, ISO/IEC 21000-19) which facilitates rights tracking
for fair and transparent royalties payment. The Audio Value Chain Ontology (AVCO, ISO/IEC 21000-
19/AMD1) extends MVCO to address issues arising from content re-use and sharing in the audio
domain. Early in this REF period, qMedia was the brand used for our interactions in Digital
Shoreditch, which was an annual festival (2010-15) for the Digital Creative and Tech industries in
Shoreditch,          London,           attracting      up       to        14,000        attendees
(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_Shoreditch).

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Future strategy: To support the creation of a University Research Institute in Creative Industries
and to continue promoting the international standardisation of QM research.

 2. People

2.1 Staffing strategy
Appointments are used to grow and strengthen existing areas of research excellence or support the
development of new research opportunities. Since 2014, CS has established two new research
groups:
    • Game-AI (seven new academics): Led by Lucas (Prof. Artificial Intelligence) - see §1.4.5
    • Communications Systems Research (five new academics + two existing): Led by
       Nallanathan (Prof. Wireless Communications) - see §1.4.4

In addition, we have strengthened all existing UoA11 research groups with new academics (Table
2.1).

   Group         New Staff                   Areas enhanced and expanded
 C4DM               6       Linked data and ontologies; affective computing; Internet of
                            Musical Things; haptics and interactional audio; immersive, AR
                            ad VR audio; bioacoustics; musical acoustics and
                            psychoacoustics; Digital Signal Processing; Machine and Deep
                            Learning
 COGSCI             6       Natural Language Processing and social sensing; natural
                            interaction including verbal and non-verbal co-ordination; the
                            strategic bridge to ARQ
 MMV                1       2D and 3D face alignment, Neural networks and face
                            alignment, Human pose estimation
 NETWORKS           6       Software-defined Networking; Big Data; cloud computing;
                            Green Computing: Networked architectures; Programmable
                            dataplanes; Distributed computing; Network economics
 RIM                1       Bayesian Artificial Intelligence for causal discovery; intelligent
                            decision making under uncertainty
 THEORY             2       Cybersecurity; model-checking
 VISION             2       Self-supervised visual learning; Deep learning-based image
                            restoration; Semi-supervised image segmentation; 3D
                            image/video processing
Table 2.1 Groups expanded by new staff

Since 2014, CS has recruited 37 new academic staff (8 Professors; 5 Senior-Lecturers; 22 Lecturers;
2 Research Fellows) (Table 2.2). During this period 20 academic staff left, of whom 13 have taken
more senior posts in major UK or International Universities, four have taken senior industry posts,
two have retired and one is deceased. We have in total 22 professional services staff with a primary
role of research support within EECS.




                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 UOA11 STAFF                 REF2014 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 Jul-20

              TOTAL FTE            30.5    56.3 57.75 61.45 58.95 61.25 65.35                68.8
 INCREASE (from 13/14)                      0%      3%      9%      5%      9%     16%       22%
Table 2.2 UoA11 academic staff FTE

2.2 Staff development
New academic staff benefit from start-up packages to ensure that research momentum is
maintained, involving institutionally funded PhD studentship(s) and funding for key
equipment/research costs. Staff new to academia are protected from significant administrative roles
during the standard three-year probation period with reduced teaching load enabling focus on
establishing research. A pro-active probation system ensures support to develop independent
programmes of research, focusing on attracting external research funding and producing high-quality
outputs. A senior academic acts as a mentor for teaching and research staff during probation, in
addition to RGH mentoring.

Research impact is supported at Institutional, Faculty and School levels (§1.3.2). Since 2014 several
academics have been allowed reduced FTE in order to work with individual companies and or spin-
outs (British Library, Agena, Facebook, Fujitsu Laboratories, NodeNs Medical and Amazon Web
Services, plus two supported by RAEng schemes).

A workload model equalises loads and achieves a balance between responsibilities, typically ring-
fencing 50% for research activities, and noting special probationary requirements. A QMUL-wide
annual appraisal process monitors progress and sets future aspirations. The appraiser is a senior
colleague who discusses teaching, research plans, publications, research funding, impact, public
engagement and professional development.

All research groups run research seminar series. Over a typical year, our research groups run over
160 external seminars. The ‘Distinguished Lecturer’ research seminar series present high-profile
speakers, giving talks on subjects relevant to wide audiences. New academics present a summary
of their research at School Meetings to aid collaboration.

From 2018 a new promotion process supports applicants by requiring them to discuss applications
with RGHs, appraisers or mentors before submission (plus access to the Director for Staff
Development for additional advice). Late-draft applications are read by the School Promotions Panel
(HoS, T&R Directors, RGHs), and a final edit plan prepared. Tables 2.3 and 2.4 summarise
promotion statistics, showing 58% of 53 applications were successful.

  Promotion to     2014   2015     2016     2017   2018          2019     2020       Total
 Prof                                           2      2             1        1            6
 Reader                2        2       1                                                  5
 Senior lecturer       3        4       5       1      2              3        2          21
 Total                 5        7       6       3      4              4        3          32
Table 2.3. UoA11 academic staff promotions (@1/10/20)



                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


       Number        2014 2015         2016    2017     2018             2019       2020     TOTAL
 Applications           8          8       9        8       9                4          7         53
 Successful             5          6       6        3       4                4          3         31
 Successful          63%       75%      67%      38%     44%              100%       43%        58%
Table 2.4. UoA11 academic staff promotions success rate

Colleagues are also encouraged to take on senior university positions (e.g. Burke: Faculty Vice
Principal 2015-2018; McOwan: Vice-Principal (Public Engagement and Student Enterprise) 2012-
2018), and attend QMUL’s ‘High-Potential Leadership’ training programme.

2.3 Support for Early Career Research staff
QMUL holds the HR Excellence in Research Award awarded by the EU [REF5a]. The Vitae
Concordat is fully supported through the Researcher Development (RD) team, part of the Queen
Mary Academy [REF5a]. Researchers are represented in the Research Committee that convenes
termly and is chaired by the Director of Research with membership by HoS, RGHs, Research
Services Team (RST), two PGR’s and one PDRA representative.

We have a strong PDRA community (table 2.5) with PDRA/REF-Academic-FTE at an average of
1.18 over the REF period and 35% BAME for UOA11 in 2019/20. Support for PDRAs includes:
   • Participation in the QMUL wide appraisal scheme
   • Encouragement to apply for grants individually, or in collaboration with academics.
   • Faculty selection processes for individual fellowships, with formal feedback and mentoring to
       complete applications, including mock interview panels (8 UoA11 individual fellowships won
       since 2014).
   • QMUL Careers events support STEM researchers considering alternative careers options,
       especially transition from academia into industry.

 UoA11 PDRA Cohort             13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 19/20
 Total                             62    61    60    72    75    88    91
 Female                          23%   23%   17%   18%   27%   25%   19%
 BAME                            23%   21%   20%   22%   33%   33%   35%
 PDRA/academic FTE               1.10  1.06  0.98  1.22  1.22  1.35  1.32
Table 2.5. UoA11 PDRA cohort by year

2.4 PGR recruitment, training and supervision
2.4.1 Recruitment
Recruitment follows QMUL’s Equal Opportunities policy and is monitored through our Athena Swan
commitment. All posts are advertised and short-listing plus interview are undertaken by two
academic staff. All interviewers are required to attend training in fair selection. The whole process is
overseen and administered by the RST (6 full-time professional-services staff). Table 2.6 shows the
source of PhD student funding.




                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 PGR FUNDING SOURCE                                                              FUNDED
 International Scholarships, Bursaries, self-funded students                          37%
 CDTs, namely MAT, AIM and IGGI plus Wellcome Trust DTP                               20%
 Central QMUL funds                                                                   14%
 School internal funds                                                                13%
 Research grants                                                                       8%
 EPSRC, Doctoral Training Account (DTP)                                                4%
 BUPT Joint Programme                                                                  2%
 Industrial Case                                                                       1%
 DTP-Case                                                                              1%
Table 2.6. UoA11 funding source for current PGR’s (@1/2/20)

Our PGR recruitment over REF2021 has increased slightly above the increase in staff FTE (table
2.7). PGR current population is shown in Table 2.7b showing the population/staff FTE is well above
Russell Group benchmarking. The Schools gender/BAME profile is shown in figure 2.1, along with
sector benchmark figures from HESA.

 New PGR          2013/1 2014/1 2015/1 2016/1 2017/1 2018/1 2019/2 REF
 enrolment (      4         5        6        7      8      9      0      TOTA
 >12 months)                                                              L
 UoA11                 51        48        56     51     61     66     67   400
 PGR/Academi         0.90      0.83      0.91   0.87   1.00   1.01   0.97
 c FTE
Table 2.7a. PGR recruitment over REF period

 UoA11 PGR POPULATION (@31/7/20)

 Current Population                                                       253

 Population/Staff FTE                                                     3.68

 Russell Group 90th Percentile 2018/19 HESA Benchmark                     3.03

Table 2.7b. PGR current population




                                                                                         Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 2.1. EECS PhD student gender/BAME profile as % of population

2.4.2 Training and supervision
PGR supervisors are responsible for academic progress and formal review meetings, along with a
‘monitor’ checking progress independently of the two supervisors. Academic progress is assessed
in four review points - months 3, 9, 22 and 36 - all based on a progress report, presentation, plus
viva with supervisors and monitor. Formal feedback is given via the Doctoral College electronic
record and the student may progress, resubmit, transfer to MPhil, or be de-registered. Students may
appeal the decision through a formal QMUL mechanism. Following each review meeting, a one-to-
one student/monitor meeting takes place, providing the student opportunity to comment, in
confidence, on any supervision issues.

All our PGRs are provided with a desk and computer, normally located in a mixed doctoral office,
enabling interaction with colleagues researching in related areas outside of their supervisor’s
immediate group. Research groups run regular seminars and reading groups while Centres and
CDTs organise events such as summer schools. Students participate in the annual School Industry
Day where external industrial partners and representatives from the IEEE and IET attend. Students
are empowered to run other activities (e.g IEEE student branch, MAT student G-Hack and
experimental concerts/performances).

PhD students are encouraged to develop teaching skills through paid demonstrator roles working
with undergraduates, for which they receive in-house training. Students are encouraged to present
at conferences, for which funding is available via application to the QMUL’s Postgraduate Research
fund (max £1k) as well as the School supported research group travel fund (£90k/yr), and DTP
support.

Table 2.9 shows the PhD timely submission rate improving over the REF period (most recent period
affected by COVID19). Table 2.10 gives the number of PhDs awarded over the REF period, showing
increasing number of awards per staff FTE.



                                                                                          Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     UoA11 On-time        2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20
       submission
 Cohort joined            2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16
 Students registered            45        43     43     45     49      45      49
 after 13-months
 PhD submission             60.0%     65.1%  74.4%  62.2%  69.4%   82.9%   80.0%
 within 4yrs
Table 2.9. PhD thesis submission rate

 PhD Awards             2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20
 UoA11 Total FTE           28.00  29.50   36.50   33.75   41.20   42.85   43.30
 UoA11                      0.49   0.51    0.59    0.57    0.67    0.66    0.63
 Total/academic FTE
Table 2.10. PhDs awarded (HESA)

2.4.3 Doctoral College support
QMUL’s DC enhances the PGR experience by cultivating an innovative cross- and inter-disciplinary
community of researchers [REF5a]. PGR training is overseen by the DC with electronic records of
training/supervisor meetings maintained. All new PGRs undertake a series of induction/orientation
activities, organised by DC, introducing the wide range of services available. Students develop
training plans in conjunction with their supervisors and the DC runs a points-based training system,
including courses on presentation, time-management, writing skills and enhancing employability.
Based on the Vitae Researcher Development Framework, each training element is mapped onto
one Vitae quadrant. The DC provides PhD supervision training that all academic staff must complete
before supervising students, with ‘top-up’ every two-years.

2.5 Equality, diversity and inclusion
A revised equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) governance structure implemented in 2019 spreads
best practice across QMUL [REF5a]. The structure is supported by an EDI team and leads in all
Schools. EDI is an item on all meeting agendas. QMUL promotes the Dignity at Work and EDI policy
to all new staff.

EECS holds an Athena Swan Bronze award. We have wheelchair access to all laboratories, teaching
rooms and offices and QMUL has worked with DisabledGo for campus access. We have a long track
record in outreach promoting EDI, working with national and regional bodies to support the uptake
of the discipline by all, including the Faculty wide WISE initiative [REF5a]. This includes:
    • Being a founding partner of the IoC, we are heavily involved with four of its five themes,
        having provided a major contribution on diversity (analyses of current demographics and
        using natural language processing research to produce analyses of across sector current
        materials provided to students).
    • Since 2018 IoC has secured approximately £1m in studentships for under-represented
        groups (Female, BAME) for PhD, MSc and BSc supported by Google DeepMind, Tata
        Consulting Services, and others.
    • A key agenda for magazine/website cs4fn, which has won several national and international
        awards (§4.3), for the last 15 years https://teachinglondoncomputing.org/celebrating-
        diversity-in-computing/.



                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


   •   Hosting, over a weekend in 2019, an all-female Hackathon, tech industry careers fair, coding
       workshops run by Makers, Cisco and Capgemini, and a day of inspirational talks from
       Microsoft, JP Morgan, Lloyds, CodeFirst:Girls etc.

The EECS managed Equalities Committee (ECO), has 18 representatives (8F:10M), from different
grades/roles (12 academic, 3 PS, 2 PhDs) and individuals with experience of part-time working,
flexible working and caring responsibilities. ECO’s team structure (Figure 2.2) has influenced School
policy, including transparent workload allocation, core-hours policy, and parental leave provision
which employs post-doctoral researcher to provide research continuity. During COVID19, ECO
provided advice and support, including adapting the core-hours policy to enable carers to schedule
work around family commitments. The co-chairs are ex-officio members of SMT, and report to the
Faculty EDI Committee and University Gender Equality Self-Assessment Team. The priorities of
ECO are to:
    • Monitor and implement the Athena Swan Action Plan.
    • Identify, implement and monitor new activities that promote equality and the progression of
         women at all career stages.
    • Explore ways of embedding EDI into School and University culture.
    • Leading on Athena-Swan applications.

These actions showcase our strong commitment to creating a diverse and inclusive working
environment, which helps attract more women and retain and support those already here. EECS
currently have 129 academic staff (19% female, 33% BAME) and 44 professional services staff (77%
female, 27% BAME).




Figure 2.2 ECO team structure

Our academic recruitment processes ensure women and BAME candidates are encouraged to apply
and that the selection process is both fair and welcoming. There is a requirement of a gender balance
on all recruitment panels, with external panel members appointed if needed with all panel members
having appropriate training (‘Recruitment and Fair Selection’ & ‘Unconscious Bias’).

Nationally, CS and engineering and technology fields show the largest gender imbalances, from
current students, to graduates and the workforce figures. Since 2014 (Table 2.11), we lost seven
female staff (two Professors to other institutions, three to more senior posts in UK academia, one to
industry, one transferring to the Teaching and Scholarship post), and only hired two (one Professor,
one lecturer). In 2019, we launched an action plan to address this issue including:
    • Actively help women in CS to transition from PhD to PDRA to Fellow to academic.
    • Proactively encourage female applicants to apply to specific posts.
    • Encouraging applications at fractional FTE to all posts.
    • Academic recruitment panels open to different research citation profiles for male/female
        candidates.
                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


   UoA11 academic         2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20
  staff gender/BAME
 Staff                         55        59    60      63      68      70      75
 Female                      18%       15%   17%     14%     13%     11%      8%
 BAME                        25%       24%   23%     22%     22%     23%     25%
Table 2.11. Staff gender/BAME profile.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Income
All Mainstream QR income is distributed to the School and directly supports the research
environment. Strategic grant applications (eg. Fellowships, large grants) and DTPs are supported
by significant institutional matched-funding and incentivisation (e.g. internal funding of associated
PGRs; distribution of grant overheads to match-fund major equipment). Table 3.1 shows a steady
research income across the REF period, with the drop in 2019/20 attributed to COVID19. Table 3.2
shows the current active grant portfolio of £37.2m, with 64% of this portfolio being UKRI funded and
with 21% EU as second largest funder.

 Research spend £k      2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20
 UoA11                   £7,148  £6,677  £7,134  £6,457  £7,171  £8,055  £7,126
 UoA11 FTE                  56.5    57.8    61.5    59.0    61.3    65.4    68.8
 Spend/academic            £127    £116    £116    £109    £117    £123    £104
 FTE
 EECS=HESA cost          £8,960  £8,430  £8,725  £7,777  £8,933 £10,637  £9,949
 centres 119+121
Table 3.1. Research spend (£k)

 Active grants 31/7/20      UoA11
 Research Councils       £23,816,754
 EU                       £7,944,369
 UK Government            £2,324,441
 Charity                  £1,062,254
 Industry                   £864,824
 Alan Turing Institute      £809,073
 Other Overseas             £424,266
 Total                   £37,245,981
 Grant Count                       89
Table 3.2. UoA11 current active grant portfolio by funder

Major grants (>£1.0m) active since 2014 include:
   • RCUK CDT MAT, renewed in 2013/14 with EPSRC/AHRC funding of £3.7m (Bryan-Kinns).
       Key impact: presented at 49 international conferences; 10 journal publications; six book
       chapters; two best-paper and best-team (Hackathon) awards; exhibited by invitation at world-
       renowned Ars Electronica Festival (2018-2020); nine invited talks; appeared in 23
       newspaper/media articles; several PhDs had spun-out companies. Led to 14 follow-on
       grants and 25 new collaborations were facilitated through student placements.


                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


   •   RCUK CDT AIM, value £6.24m (Dixon, 2019). Key impact: through academic publications,
       software toolkits, commercialisation and standardisation activities, artistic engagement,
       industry integration and academic collaboration. ‘In kind’ industry support valued at £3.1m
       and direct funding at £1.5m.
   •   RCUK CDT IGGI-2, value £2.8m (Lucas, 2019; York University (lead) and QMUL). Key
       impact: All 60 IGGI 1 (2014-2018) students have industry placements with companies
       including AI Factory, Bossa Studios, Creative Assembly, Sony Entertainment, Microsoft
       Research, Ninja Theory and Google. The first cohort graduated with 100% tech industry
       employment (e.g. Bossa, Prowler.io) and academia (two lectureships). We hosted the 2019
       IEEE Conference on Games, and are launching a Computer Games MSc for 2021 with
       industry backing.
   •   EPSRC grant ‘PAMBAYESIAN’, £1.5m. (Fenton, 2017). Key impact: 48 publications
       (including Best Student Paper at the 2020 IEEE ICHE Conference); several new
       collaborations with clinical groups outside original consortium (cardiology, pelvic floor
       conditions, cancer). Currently in discussions with two medical devices companies to
       incorporate the technology. Awarded £50K pump priming grant to incorporate the technology
       into a health tech company platform that monitors rheumatoid arthritis patients for NHS
       Trusts.
   •   EPSRC grant ‘EARL’, value £2m (Uhlig, 2017). Key impact: Turing Institute Partnership
       Project ‘LIME’, value £87K; EPSRC New Investigator Award, ‘NEAT’, value £392K.
   •   ERC grant ‘BAYES-KNOWLEDGE’, £1.2m. (Fenton, 2014). Key impact: 37 publications,
       eight awards, 56 dissemination events; decision-makers in health, law, forensics,
       environment are using the results and tools from the project; new international
       collaborations/grants (including Newton Institute grant involving most of the world’s leading
       forensic and legal argumentation experts); EPSRC project PAMBAYESIAN.
   •   ERC grant ‘DALI’, £2m. (Poesio, 2016). Key impact: novel probabilistic aggregation
       methods; biggest crowdsourced corpus for coreference in NLP; 20 publications; several new
       international collaborations; and establishment of several successful workshop series, in
       particular ‘Games and NLP’.
   •   Wellcome Trust DTP ‘Health Data in Practice’, Value £5.5m (Dezateux (Blizard Institute,
       QMUL) with Healey (COGSCI) as one of three co-investigators, 2019). Key impact:
       Developing a clear understanding of how health data is generated and used for AI, forming
       vital new strategic links between SMD and CS.
   •   US DoD grant to Centre for Trauma Sciences, Value £1m (Marsh (RIM), Col; Nigel Tai
       (QMUL Trauma Sciences Centre), 2019). Key Impact: Clinical Decision Support tools that
       clinicians use to treat wounded soldiers on the battlefield. AI decision support is continuation
       of a long-term collaboration between RIM and SMD.

Major EU projects led by CS staff since 2014 are:
   • ENDEAVOUR (Uhlig, €922k QMUL (Coordinator), total €3.3m). Key impact: Led to EPSRC
       grant ‘EARL’.
   • ConCreTe (Wiggins, €517k QMUL (Coordinator), total €2.5m). Key impact: 114 peer-
       reviewed publications advancing computational creativity, and concept construction; 40
       dissemination events.
   • Lrn2Cre8 (Wiggins, €627k QMUL (Coordinator), total €2.5m). Key impact: 85 refereed
       publications advancing computational musical creativity; led to EU Launchpad grant, I2Cre8.
   • MIP-Frontiers, Marie Skłodowska-Curie Innovative Training Network (Dixon, €0.82m QMUL
       (Coordinator), total €3.9m). Key impact: H2020 consortium (4 academic and 3 non-academic
       beneficiaries, plus 9 Partners) is training 15 university/industry based PhDs (2018-22); 32
       publications.




                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Faculty-wide initiatives have been established since 2014 to support enhancement in research
funding including:
   • Research support fund: a structured approach to provide institutional support for large and
       strategic funding bids (researchers can request institutional support equivalent to 40% of
       residual overhead on a grant to be invested in equipment, PhD studentships etc.)
   • Research enabling fund: from 2016/17 Faculty introduced this Fund, where research grant
       PIs receive 10% of their research overheads returned to support pump-priming/ preliminary-
       studies that enhance the likelihood of future successful grant applications.
   • Coaching and mentoring (mock interview panels, etc.) to support ERC grants, Fellowships,
       Programme grants, etc.

Specific financial support for impact in the Faculty is via STFC/EPSRC Impact Acceleration Accounts
(IAA) (~£260k p.a.) to exploit our research base (§4.2) with a focus on:
    • An Innovation Fund (with additional support from HEIF) supporting the translation of research
        for economic or social impact.
    • An Accelerator Programme to create high-value spin-out companies based on EPSRC
        research.
    • Funding to match to Global Challenges Research funding.

UoA11 use of these amounts is at £382k since 1/1/14.

3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
Since 2014 QMUL has invested £185m in capital infrastructure [REF5a], which includes major
investment in research infrastructure, including refurbishment of the Engineering Building. UoA11
occupies space in three buildings on the Mile End Campus: Peter Landin Building; Informatics
Teaching Laboratory; Engineering Building.

The REF2021 period has seen very significant investment in research infrastructure and facilities.
Over £32m has been invested in a programme of refurbishment of the Engineering Building to
provide the highest quality research/teaching environment. New/enhanced research laboratories
and workshops that support UoA11 include:
   • A multi-functional media experimental lab supporting two separate Kinect capturing sessions
       in parallel, eye tracker work area, space for using virtual reality headset, TV wall.
   • New 4th floor for the north engineering building, providing academic and PhD space for
       C4DM (361 sqm).
   • New 3rd floor for the north engineering building, providing electronics teaching/research
       laboratory (384 sqm).
   • New research mechanical workshop combining previous separate workshops into one new
       space (190sqm) plus investment of £150k in new machine tools.
   • New Empire House building (Whitechapel) housing DERI, including all the expanding GAME
       and part of the RIM Groups.

Within UoA11 there has been significant investment in new equipment/facilities, involving external
funding and/or institutional investment. This includes the QMUL Strategic Facilities Investment Fund
which aims to support major new strategic facilities development with a focus on providing matched
funding to leverage significant external funding. Significant investment includes:
   • Materials Processing Laboratory for CDT MAT programme: EPSRC-funded equipment
       includes 3D printers, laser cutters, digital embroidery, 2D materials printing (£314k).
   • £430k for the CIS laboratory including sensors, robotic arm and quadcoptors.
   • Nvidia DGX-1 deep learning supercomputer (2016), centred around the VISION group, this
       is specifically designed for deep learning and big data analysis. Several other computer
       clusters for big data have been installed.
                                                                                           Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


   •   Hadoop Cluster: for big data research, £80K, installed 2014.
   •   Deep learning individual compute nodes: (Nvidia) 20 nodes installed 2015/16, £160k.
   •   Cisco VIRL virtual internet routing lab: NETWORKS, £10k.
   •   £200k for C4DM labs/studios and computing equipment.
   •   £450k COGSCI new office/lab space.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Supporting collaborations
Our interdisciplinary collaboration and engagement within academia, Industry and government
spans the spectrum from within QMUL through national and international collaboration. This
includes a large spread of collaborators:
    • Biologists: forensics and security (MMV); using machine learning to decode animal
       vocalisations (C4DM), analysing animal behaviour by video (MMV).
    • Clinicians & Medical Researchers: Image analysis (MMV); decisions in trauma/chronic
       medicine (RIM); tools for assessing quality of life (COGSCI).
    • Defence Analysts: better real-world decisions, better military training games (GAME,
       THEORY); improved decision-making for intelligence agents (RIM).
    • Ecologists and Climate Scientists: understanding climate change effects on natural
       ecosystems (COGSCI, Networks); detecting solar panel installations (C4DM).
    • Economists: Game Theory and Decision Theory applied to Economics (GAME).
    • Educational researchers and practitioners: developing more effective approaches to
       school level education (COGSCI).
    • Financiers: compiler work optimising speed of financial systems (THEORY).
    • Historians/Museum Curators: exploring the History of Computing, public
       engagement (COGSCI).
    • Human rights activists / organisations (UNHCR): language processing methods applied
       to human rights work (COGSCI); improved risk assessment and project planning for major
       agricultural projects in underdeveloped countries (RIM).
    • Lawyers: evidential reasoning (RIM).
    • Librarians: cataloguing sound and music collections (C4DM).
    • Linguists: computational models of complex linguistic phenomena; predicting patient
       adherence to treatment from dialogue; predicting clinical diagnosis and outcomes from
       patient interaction (COGSCI).
    • Mathematicians: applying ideas from Logic and Proof Theory to mathematical proofs
       (THEORY); understanding the effects of climate change on natural ecosystems (COGSCI &
       NETWORKS)).
    • Musicians and Composers: deeper understanding of the creative process and of the
       sensorimotor skill of playing instruments (C4DM).
    • Neuroscientists: understanding brain mechanisms of auditory perception, for interplay
       between language and vision, representation of emotions (COGSCI, C4DM).
    • Psychologists: causal reasoning and decision-making under uncertainty (RIM); developing
       models of attention (COGSCI).

We employ a wide range of mechanisms to support and encourage collaboration:

4.1.1 Bringing researchers together
At International conferences UoA11 staff have, since 2014 been general chair/co-chairs at 54 events,
given 109 invited plenary talks, and received 42 best-paper awards.




                                                                                           Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Collaboration is supported through formal groupings such as:
    • Turing Institute: In 2018 QMUL became one of eight new University members of TI. Of the
       46 QMUL TI Fellows, 18 are from UoA11 attracting research funding jointly with the TI.
       QMUL’s TI membership led to the creation of the Institute for Applied Data Science (IADS),
       a cross-disciplinary Institute which is the public interface to Turing, managing projects,
       Fellowship applications, seminars (several each month) and an annual conference. Our
       fellows have been prominent in IADS and TI events, leading to multiple new interdisciplinary
       research activities, e.g. TI funded KNIFE (Knowledge Discovery from Health Use Data, 2019,
       £100k).
    • Research Cooperation with BUPT: We have a major teaching Joint Programme (JP) with
       Beijing University of Posts & Telecommunications (BUPT), with approximately 2,700
       students. This has led to stronger research links including establishing a new ‘Smart
       Communication’ joint laboratory (2018). International workshops have been JP-organised
       e.g. Emerging Advances for 5G Networks and Beyond: Concepts, Technologies and
       Applications (2017); and a Russell Group UK-China Workshop on Intelligent Transportation
       Systems for Smarter Urban Mobility (2016).
    • CDT MAT: Has been a major catalyst for collaboration, with PhD students having (lead/joint)
       supervisors across all research groups, as well as in the wider QMUL community (including
       SMD, Biology, Drama). Major impacts are described in §3.1. New collaborations facilitated
       through the student placements bring new industry and academic partnerships leading to
       further collaborations and exchanges. MAT has established collaborations with over 25
       institutions including BBC, Georgia Tech (USA), Hunan Uni (China), McGill University
       (Canada), CreativeWorks London, The Barbican, London College of Fashion, Manchester
       School of Art, Yamaha. The CDT also led to a collaborative Masters with Hunan University
       (China), the first design-tech masters between China/UK.
    • CDT IGGI-1 and IGGI-2: IGGI-1 (2014) was a collaboration between York University (lead),
       Essex University, and Goldsmiths. The Essex part of IGGI-1 moved to QMUL with Lucas and
       Perez in 2017, later joined by Goldsmiths IGGI-1 investigators Colton and Gow. York (lead)
       and QMUL now form IGGI-2 (2019) with an even split of students. IGGI is having a
       transformational effect on the games industry, with each phase funding more than 60 PhD
       students. All IGGI students have industry placements (minimum 3-months), ranging from
       indie games studios to tech giants. Major impacts from IGGI have been described in §3.1,
       and it has encouraged many international collaborations, resulting in papers published at
       leading Game/AI venues.
    • CDT AIM: This 2019/20 CDT will produce world-class researchers who combine state-of-the-
       art ability in artificial intelligence, machine learning and signal processing with cross-
       disciplinary sensibility to deliver ground-breaking original research and impact within the UK
       Creative Industries and cultural sector. Partners comprise key players in the music industry
       (e.g. Abbey Road Studios, Apple, Deezer, Spotify, Steinberg, Universal Music), covering
       recording, distribution, electronic instruments and music software; plus a range of innovative
       start-ups (e.g. HyVibe, Sensing Feeling, Chordify, Le Sound) covering hardware and
       software for mainstream, alternative and experimental music. Partners contribute to AIM by:
       funding or co-funding students; providing training courses and seminars; internships to
       individual students; co-supervising students; and providing student project resources.
    • CDT in Data Centric Engineering: This £1.6m award forms part of the UKRI Doctoral
       Mobility Pilot (Co-investigators Bryan-Kinns & Sandler). Recruiting its first cohort in 2020/1,
       the project will expand the number of scientists/engineers with data-science and engineering
       research, facilitating students to apply such methods in the industrial settings of partners
       including IBM, BT and the BBC.
    • CDT DAME: This 2020/21 CDT in ‘Data-informed Audience-centric Media Engineering’,
       jointly funded by QMUL and the BBC, will produce world-class researchers in technologies
       that support future products and services in online media.
    • MIP-Frontiers: QMUL led Marie Skłodowska-Curie Innovative Training Network of 4
       academic and 3 non-academic beneficiaries, plus 9 Partners is training 15 researchers in a
       range of university-based and industry-based PhDs (2018-22).
                                                                                              Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


   •   CIS: see §1.5.1.
   •   qMedia: see §1.5.2.

4.1.2 Support for collaboration
During REF2021, UoA11 activity supports:
    • Incoming international visitors: 46 visits (average stay 6-months) from Assistant
       Professor/Lecturer and upwards, and 22 visits (average stay 9-months) from
       Postdocs/Fellows for periods in excess of five-days have taken place during this REF period.
    • Staff Honorary Visiting Academic posts: Staff hold 26 visiting academic posts abroad, with
       15 as Visiting Professor (8 Europe & Middle East, 18 Asia).
    • PhD students to travel and present at international conferences via a £90k/yr budget plus
       Doctoral College administered central funds.
    • Staff to hold 15 collaborative UKRI grants (with QMUL value >£100k) creating 23
       collaborations spread over 20 institutions.
    • National & International Collaborations: Defining a significant collaboration as one leading to
       a peer-reviewed co-authored journal/conference paper and/or funded research project,
       UoA11 has 320 independent international collaborations (Table 4.1), and 143 independent
       UK university collaborations with 50 institutions including 21 Russell Group members.

 Americas Europe           Asia       Other          Total
          54          157         86            23           320
Table 4.1. Number of independent UoA11 international collaborations.

4.2 Industrial collaborations and impact
Our Impact strategy (§1.3.2) has yielded 8 Impact Case Studies prepared for REF2021 submission.
These Impact Case Studies represent only the tip of the iceberg. UoA11 research activities have led
to 13 new spin-outs (table 4.2), and seven staff continued with spin-outs created before 2014.

 Company name                Staff member
 Tonz                        Benetos/Reiss
 Chorograph                  Clegg
 Imaginative Al              Colton
 Dithen Ltd                  Doyle
 SeeQuestor Ltd              Gong
 Dragonfly                   McOwan
                             (deceased)
 TouchKey Instruments        McPherson
 Augmented Instruments       McPherson
 Cahtterbox Lbs              Purver
 Fxive                       Reiss
 Teragence                   Schormans
 Warblr                      Stowell
 Acygn Ltd                   Tzevelkos
 Easy Advanced Systems       Woodward
Table 4.2. UoA11 spin-outs created since 2014

Examples of major societal impact [REF3]:
   • Fenton's guidelines (based on RIM’s Bayesian Decision support research) for lawyers and
      forensic scientists, led to the decision by the International Criminal Court in The Hague to
                                                                                            Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


       train all their judges and lawyers in the use of Bayesian methods to efficiently process pre-
       trial evidence.
   •   COGSCI's communication training programme for clinicians treating psychosis has been
       used by 12 NHS Trusts across the UK and 43 international institutions. COGSCI's natural
       language processing methods are applied in a commercial online CBT service (NHS
       available) treating approximately 1m patents in UK and USA.

QMUL supports new impact through a variety of internal funding means, including EPSRC Impact
Acceleration Accounts (IAA) [REF5a]. The IAA Flexible Innovation Starter Fund (£5k) allows
exploration of ideas with major impact potential, the IAA Large Grants (up to £50k) are awarded to
enable high profile Impact activities arising from research. Proof of Concept funds (up to £50k),
awarded by QMI, get research outcomes into shape for investment and full commercialisation. QMI
launched the QMUL Enterprise Investment Fund, providing early-stage seed capital to academic
and student spin-out enterprise. QMUL offers free legal/business advice to tech start-ups and new
entrepreneurs through qLegal, and for financial issues qNomics, provided by the schools of Law
and        Economics.      Notably,      the     2019      Entrepreneurial       Impact       Ranking
(https://octopusventures.com/entrepreneurial-impact-ranking-2019/) ranked QMUL 4th in the UK
for its production of spinout companies, and successful exits, relative to the total funding received.
A significant proportion of this success relates to spin-out activities arising from our research.
Tables 4.3 and 4.4 list the patents and commercial agreements activity for UoA11 staff, the revenue
generated in FY 2019/20 was £143.5k.

 Group         Awarded Filed
 C4DM                  8      2
 COGSCI                       1
 CSR                          3
 MMV                   1      3
 NETWORKS              2
 THEORY                1      2
 VISION                4      4
 Total                16     15
Table 4.3. Summary of Patents undertaken since 2014

 UOA11 Assignment Collaboration/ Evaluation License Option Tech                      Total
                        Option          License                           Evaluation
 Total               3              1              7         26        8           1   46
Table 4.4. Commercial agreements undertaken with industry since 2014 (QMI)

UoA11 staff have consulting activities with 24 companies, including Intel, Yamaha Motors, British
Telecom, Care Quality Commission. Three UoA11 staff have taken extended industrial secondment
(see table 4.5), and Lucas (GAME) will join Facebook from December 2020 for 1-year.

 Name          Group Secondment FTE and period Company
 Distefano     Theory                0.8 FTE since 2013          Facebook
 Fenton            RIM                  0.3 FTE 2014-16          Agena Ltd
 Tautsching Theory                   0.8 FTE since 2015 Amazon Web Services
Table 4.5. Staff taking industrial secondment

Our Industrial Board meets twice-yearly, having 23 industrial members taken from the wide range of
industries relevant to research/teaching. Board meetings coincide with research open-days, where
                                                                                              Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


research groups share their research through posters/demos given by PDRAs and PhDs. From
2020 the Board has been an enabler for showcasing Industry/Academia events offering both large
scale meetings (QMUL/Cambridge Wireless Conference, Covid delayed Jan2021) to industry
themed webinars (§1.3.1).

4.3 Public engagement of research
COGSCI’s 2017 book ‘Power of Computational Thinking’ (Curzon & McOwan) has been translated
into Chinese, German and Russian, with a 2nd Edition in press. COGSCI takes a lead role in the
development of government policy: Curzon was appointed to the National Centre for Computing
Education’s Academic Board (one of six members); and advises Royal Society working group on AI
and Outreach. QMUL’s Centre for Public Engagement (CPE), founded by McOwan (COGSCI), was
the first institution to achieve the gold standard for public engagement [REF5a]. Significantly
influencing that award was COGSCI’s cs4fn activity which has engaged school students and
teachers in the UK and worldwide, with CS research topics for 15-years (twice yearly magazine,
20,000 print copies/issue, >100k downloaded to over 80 countries). Other cs4fn-related awards
include the premier ‘Richard Garriott Award for Leadership in Public Engagement’ (2018) and the
IEEE Taylor L. Booth Education Award medal (2020) for computer science education (Curzon).

Other significant activities:
   • Hosting the public engagement website http://probabilityandlaw.blogspot.com (Fenton/Neil)
   • Running annual Computer Science Royal Institution masterclass for the past five years. For
       13-14 year-olds from local schools (cohort: 25-30).
   • Children’s Christmas Lecture series (with IET local network), engages local community
       promoting STEM in schools. Speakers present in the style of the RI Christmas Lecture.
   • COGSCI are active in running a UK-wide CS education research network.
   • Fenton co-presented the multiple award-winning (table 4.6) BBC documentary “Climate
       Change by Numbers”.

4.4 Open research and data management
UoA11 fully supports QMUL’s Open Access policy, and in addition to the centralised facilities for
publications, we use, on a group-by-group basis, various facilities such as GitHub and OSF, to make
our research code and data available. Exemplifiers of this are: H2020:EMBEDDIA, 57 repositories
via GitHub, industry-facing software tools released under open-source license and via Docker for
ease of uptake; GAME won the AIIDE2019 conference best artefact award for its Pommerman
framework; C4DM http://isophonics.org.

Looking forward open access to our research code and data will increase in-line with the subject
trends, were already some leading conferences/journals require code release or strongly encourage
it for reproduction and comparative evaluation.

4.5 Significant leadership roles and staff esteem
Since 2014 UoA11 staff have:
    • Provided funding body leadership roles as: EPSRC review college (27); EU (1); Royal
       Society (2); RAEng (3); IEEE (2); Non-UK national funding bodies (10).
    • Provided journal editorial roles as: Editor (12, of which 5 IEEE), Associate Editor (36, of
       which 14 IEEE); guest editor (27, of which 4 IEEE); editorial board member (17).
    • Acted as chair/co-chair for 54 international conferences, of which 13 are IEEE conferences.
    • Been made Turing Fellows (18).
    • Been elected FREng (Sandler).


                                                                                          Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Specific leadership roles include:
Cavallaro: Leads joint PhD programme in interactive and cognitive environments, with University of
Genoa (since 2010); Chair of: Image, Video, and Multidimensional Signal Processing Technical
Committee; IEEE Signal Processing Society (since 2020).
Curzon: Provided a leading role in computing education, collaborating with DfE, BBC, Royal Society,
Greater London Assembly, Computing at School Working Group, Norwegian Parliamentary Working
Group, Danish ministry of education. Leads on cs4fn.
Dixon: Coordinator of EU H2020 Innovative Training Network: MIP-Frontiers (2018-22); President
International Society for Music Information Retrieval (2014/15).
Fenton: Major contributor to Turing Institute submission to House of Lords Science & Technology
Committee inquiry into Forensic Science (2018). Expert witness/consultant in Criminal and civil
cases including cases in the USA and Netherlands (since 2014).
Lucas: Vice-President (Education) of the IEEE Computational Intelligence Society (2017 – 2020).
Reiss: Audio Engineering Society: Chair Publications Policy Committee (since 2016); Co-Chair High
Resolution Audio Committee (since 2014).
Robinson: Council of Professors and Heads of Computing (Treasurer 2014/18, Deputy Chair 2018).

See Table 4.6 for staff esteem. Ten submitted staff in World Top 2% of Scientists by Stanford
University (Cavallaro, Dixon, Elkashlan, Gong, Izquierdo, Lucas, Malacaria, Nallanathan, Poslad,
Uhlig).




                                                                                          Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Year    Academic     Esteem
 2020    Gong         IET 2020 Achievement Award
 2020    Cavallaro    IEEE Distinguished Lecturer, Signal Processing Society
 2019    Distefano    POPL 2019 most influential paper award POPL (Principles of Programming
                      Languages)
 2019    Sandler      European Association for Signal Processing (EURASIP) Group Technical
                      Achievement Award
 2018    Bryan-       Fellow of Royal Society of Arts (FRSA)
         Kinns
 2018    Cavallaro      Fellow of International Association for Patter Recognition
 2018    Distefano      Most Influential OOPSLA Paper Award
 2018    Yorsh          5-year EU-ERC
 2018    Chew           5-year EU-ERC
 2017    Cowling        Royal Society Wolfson Merit Award
 2016    Distefano      CAV Award, “fundamental contributions to the field of Computer-Aided
                        Verification for development of Separation Logic”
 2016     Fenton        5-year EU-ERC
 2016     McPherson EPSRC 5-year Fellowship award
 2016     Sandler       Elected FREng
 2015     Benetos       RAEng 5-year Fellowship
 2015     Fenton        (co-presented) BBC Documentary “Climate Change by Numbers” awarded;
                        American Association for the Advancement of Science, Science Journalism
                        Gold Award for best in-depth TV reporting; European Science TV and New
                        Media for the best environmental issue Science programme.
 2015     Izquierdo     IEEE Distinguished Lecturer, 2015-2017
 2015     Sandler       Royal Society Wolfson Merit award
 2014     Distefano     Awarded one of four annual RAEng Silver Medals
 2014     Stowell       EPSRC 5-year Fellowship
Table 4.6. Staff esteem




                                                                                       Page 29
