Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Oxford

 Unit of Assessment: 30 Philosophy

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 How research is structured across the unit

 Oxford Philosophy aspires to be a world leader in the subject, by combining exemplary breadth
 and depth of philosophical research activity, set within a nexus of natural interdisciplinarity. We
 seek to transform the most fundamental understanding of the world, of society, and of human
 beings; and to change the world for the better through that transformed – improved –
 understanding.

 The Philosophy Faculty consists of more than 150 professional philosophers and provides an
 intellectually rich environment for a great diversity of research activities. During the current REF
 period the Faculty has won over GBP27m of external research funding (alongside a further
 GBP710k of internal research funding) and it has nurtured 244 BPhil (masters-level research)
 students, 112 DPhil (PhD level) students, and 92 postdoctoral fellows.

 The UoA consists of a core composed of six statutory professors (in moral philosophy,
 metaphysics, logic, ancient philosophy, philosophy of mind, and practical ethics) and forty-nine
 other professors/associate professors. Together, this core group individually and jointly devise the
 research questions which are to be pursued, and drive the research forward, supported by various
 Faculty structures (of which more below, §§2-3). Surrounding this core are a large number of early
 career researchers (who may be Junior Research Fellows, holders of external early career
 research fellowships, or postdoctoral researchers either on externally funded research projects,
 or within the Faculty’s several research centres). There are also Senior Research Fellows on
 externally funded projects or within the Faculty’s research centres, and – importantly – many senior
 colleagues in other departments with philosophical interests. These include faculty whose primary
 appointments are in Art History, Classics, Computer Science, Law, Linguistics, Mathematics,
 Medicine, Oriental Studies, Politics and Social Sciences, and Theology. These strong
 interdisciplinary links include joint running of seminars and joint supervision of graduate students.

 Research activity is organised into a number of clusters, and the UoA has research clusters in
 all major areas of philosophy. Research clusters are typically headed by a statutory professor or
 by other senior colleagues, and each has a seminar series meeting regularly (usually weekly or
 fortnightly). These include series in metaphysics, epistemology, moral philosophy, aesthetics,
 ancient philosophy, post-Kantian philosophy, ethics in AI, and the philosophies of mind, of
 mathematics, of physics, and of language. There is also a collective Faculty research seminar (the
 Philosophical Society), as well as a wide range of informal reading groups and work-in-progress
 meetings, open to all. Several prestigious lecture series are hosted by the UoA, including the John
 Locke Lectures (which since 2014 have been given by Martha Nussbaum, Rae Langton, Ted
 Sider, Michael Smith, Peter Railton, and Philip Pettit; Susan Wolf is to be the next Lecturer); the
 Isaiah Berlin Lectures (shared with History); the Nellie Wallace Lectures (shared with Classics);
 the Uehiro Lectures in Practical Ethics; and the Gareth Evans Memorial Lectures. In the 2019-
 2020 academic year (taken as representative), more than 60 philosophers from outside the
 university delivered research talks in Oxford (amounting to two-to-three visiting speakers each
 week of term). There have been several hundred such talks in the course of the REF period. Every


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 week of term is packed with one or more research seminars, visiting lectures, or other events,
 each day.

 This rich milieu both supports and is supported by our large and active community of research
 students. Research students participate in all of the Faculty’s research seminars, as well as
 running the Ockham Society (in which every week a graduate student presents work to their peers)
 and a highly successful annual graduate conference, which draws high quality submissions from
 around the world.

 The Faculty also contains a number of major research centres, directed by professors of the
 Faculty, each centre with a distinctive focus and an interdisciplinary character. The Uehiro Centre
 for Practical Ethics is led by Julian Savulescu, and aims to drive the development of practical
 ethics (across its whole broad remit, including medical ethics) and thereby to guide human choice
 more effectively. The Future of Humanity Institute (FHI) is led by Nick Bostrom and focusses on
 long-term problems and prospects for our species, using multidisciplinary tools from mathematics,
 philosophy, and the social sciences. The Global Priorities Institute (GPI) is led by Hilary Greaves
 and combines insights from philosophy and economics to address questions concerning how to
 maximise the good that can be done with limited resources. And finally, the most recently
 established centre (September 2020), is the Institute for Ethics in AI, led by John Tasioulas, which
 seeks to address the ethical challenges posed by the development of artificial intelligence, and to
 develop AI Ethics as a sophisticated field of philosophical enquiry, enriched by broad perspectives
 from the humanities and the social sciences, whilst engaging deeply with the interests,
 achievements, and concerns, of AI practitioners.

 These research centres consist of 67 staff members (21 Uehiro Centre; 34 FHI, and 12 GPI, with
 in addition to this 67 a further 6 colleagues recently commenced in Ethics in AI) and they have
 generated a total of GBP18.6 million of research income during the REF period (GBP7.7m for
 Uehiro, GBP8.2m FHI, and GBP2.7m for GPI). In addition to this research income, these centres
 have also been very successful in attracting philanthropic donations to support their research
 (GBP1.4m Uehiro, GBP1.3m FHI, and GBP1.8m GPI). Beyond their focussed research
 activities, these centres also contribute both to training and to supporting the next generation of
 researchers (as we detail further below, §2).

 Looking beyond research centres internal to the Faculty, some UoA colleagues also have
 affiliations with centres located elsewhere within the University’s structure, including the Wellcome
 Centre for Ethics and Humanities – which was founded in 2017 to lead national and international
 debate about the ethical constraints on scientific research and technological innovation – and the
 Ethox centre, which aims to improve ethical standards in healthcare practice and in medical
 research.

 All these centres (both within the Faculty and without) play a key role in disseminating the UoA’s
 research and in helping to lead impact, as well as in supporting and stimulating the underlying
 research itself.

 The UoA is currently housed physically in the Radcliffe Humanities Building, with all the
 research centres a short walk away. Our future accommodation plans, described in §3 below, will
 be transformative in supporting our research activities and in redoubling inter-faculty and inter-
 departmental collaboration, alongside valuably boosting scope for public outreach.



                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The research direction of the UoA is most fundamentally determined by the Faculty’s statutory
 professors, professors, and associate professors: those appointed to lead and to pursue research.
 Collective and strategic decisions, however, such as which research areas (including new areas)
 to prioritise and to resource, where to make appointments, and which strategic opportunities to
 pursue, fall under the remit of the Faculty Board (the senior decision-making body in the UoA); but
 these decisions are arrived at in a consultative way. Regular reviews of strategic priorities take
 place in broad Faculty meetings each year; these are then refined as necessary by the Strategy
 sub-group of the Faculty Board, before being proposed to the Board. The Director of Research (a
 senior officer of the Board) plays a key role in these discussions, and both the Director of Research
 and the Faculty Board Chair engage systematically with colleagues within the Humanities Division
 and throughout the University – and beyond – to maximise the use of those opportunities which
 will align with the Faculty’s strategic priorities. Recent, and very successful, strategic
 achievements have been to build feminist philosophy as a new major area of research (and
 teaching) for the Faculty, and the founding of our two new research centres.


 Review of research plans from REF 2014

 Our research plan in 2014 had four main aims: to increase the breadth of hiring; to strengthen our
 links with Politics and Law; to establish a new research centre; and to make more funding available
 for graduate scholarships. We have either met or exceeded expectations on each of these aims.

    1. To increase breadth of hiring

 As mentioned, the Faculty aims to achieve excellence in all major areas of philosophy. With this
 in mind, our previous REF research plan identified a number of key areas in which to strengthen
 our research clusters. These were philosophy of mind and action; philosophical linguistics;
 philosophy of biology; post-Kantian continental philosophy; and medieval and early modern
 philosophy.

 We have successfully hired in almost all of these areas. Michael Martin took up the Wilde Chair in
 Mental Philosophy to lead research in the philosophy of mind and action; Will Davies and Matthew
 Parrott (mind) and Natalia Waights-Hickman (action) were recently appointed to permanent
 associate professor posts. In philosophical linguistics, Paul Elbourne was hired as a professor,
 Milo Phillips-Brown (who also works in philosophy of AI) as a permanent associate professor, and
 Matthew Mandelkern as a postdoctoral fellow. In philosophy of biology, Ellen Clarke joined us as
 a five-year postdoc (before later taking up a permanent post in Leeds). We appointed Mark
 Wrathall as a professor in post-Kantian continental philosophy.

 Since 2014, we also took the strategic decision to strengthen our research in feminist philosophy,
 seeing this as a particularly vibrant area of current philosophical research, and an important area
 for our students. In consequence we hired Mari Mikkola, Amia Srinivasan, Rachel Fraser, Alice
 Crary and Kate Kirkpatrick to permanent posts in this field. This has helped us towards our goal
 of maintaining a diverse philosophy faculty.

    2. To strengthen links with Politics and Law

 Our relationship with Politics has been much strengthened by the appointments during the REF
 period of two senior political philosophers: Jonathan Wolff took up a chair in the Blavatnik School
 of Government in 2016, and in 2020 Amia Srinivasan moved from an associate professorship of
 philosophy to the renowned Chichele Chair in Social and Political Theory. Each maintains strong


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 links with both politics and philosophy, regularly supervising or co-supervising philosophy graduate
 students and teaching graduate classes open to our students. Wolff has a long track-record as an
 adviser on public policy, notably on gambling, drug addiction, poverty, and the allocation of health
 resources; and Srinivasan too has a high (and prize-winning) public profile. At a more junior level,
 we recently appointed to permanent posts Thomas Sinclair (political philosophy) and Alexander
 Prescott-Couch (philosophy of social science), both of whom collaborate with colleagues in the
 Politics Department and in the Blavatnik School. We plan shortly to make further permanent
 appointments in political philosophy, including – under the aegis of the Institute for Ethics in AI –
 one post jointly with the Blavatnik School.

 The appointment of Ruth Chang as the statutory Professor of Jurisprudence has valuably
 transformed our relationship with the Law Faculty: Chang is committed to interdisciplinary
 research and has set up a Philosophy, Law, and Politics (PLP) colloquium series and has taught
 interdisciplinary graduate classes for philosophy and law students, alongside introducing a whole
 series of such graduate classes taught variously by law faculty and philosophy faculty. John
 Hyman’s ERC Advanced Grant project on the roots of responsibility in the law (the funding for
 which he obtained while at Oxford) is part-hosted by the Faculty and Hyman retains a Senior
 Research Fellowship. In further connection, Alexander Kaiserman’s work on causation and
 responsibility straddles the two disciplines, and he has co-taught classes together with Sandy
 Steele (law) open to both law and philosophy graduate students. Finally, and most recently, the
 Faculty recruited John Tasioulas as Professor of Ethics and Philosophy of Law from his previous
 position as Professor of Politics, Philosophy and Law, and Director of the Yeoh Tiong Lay Centre
 for Politics, Philosophy and Law at Kings College, London.

    3. To establish another research centre

 At the time of the last REF, the Faculty included two multi-disciplinary research centres, the Uehiro
 Centre and the Future of Humanity Institute (see above). As noted, these centres have been
 extremely successful at raising external research income, producing excellent research and
 impact activities, and training graduate and post-doctoral researchers. The Faculty had the aim of
 establishing a third centre in this REF period to drive forward on all three of these fronts.

 This goal was achieved with the opening of the Global Priorities Institute in early 2018. The GPI
 has already raised GBP4.5 million from donors and funding bodies, and it has already produced
 15 high quality publications in top journals, alongside one of the impact case studies for the Faculty
 (led by Will MacAskill). The Institute has the ambitious aim of developing Global Priorities research
 as a significant new, and highly rigorous, interdisciplinary area of activity internationally, and has
 put considerable effort into developing next generation researchers, by supporting postdocs,
 providing graduate scholarships, and running a successful Early Career Conference Programme.

 Further than this, most recently (September 2020), the Faculty was delighted to be able to launch
 a second new centre, the Institute for Ethics in AI. The Institute connects philosophical research
 to work across a wide range of other disciplines, seeking to address in all its breadth the emerging
 importance of, and challenges from, AI to society in general. As noted, John Tasioulas is the
 inaugural director of the Institute, and Carissa Veliz and Milo Phillips-Brown have been appointed
 to permanent associate professorships in philosophy associated with the Institute. Phillips-Brown’s
 appointment is also a joint appointment with the Department of Computer Science, where he will
 share responsibility for ethics training for future researchers and practitioners in AI and computer
 science. Two postdoctoral researchers have also been appointed to the Institute, as has a senior
 international computer scientist to head technical AI engagement for the Institute. Two Institute-

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funded doctoral students have also joined the team. Further appointments, cementing the inter-
 and multi- disciplinarity of the Institute will follow soon, including one associate professor post joint
 with the Blavatnik School of Government and a philosophy/social science associate professor post
 joint with the Oxford Internet Institute.

     4. To raise more graduate funding and make more scholarships available

 In recent years it has become ever harder to find money to support graduate students.
 Nevertheless, the UoA has had considerable success in securing such funding. We awarded 35
 AHRC scholarships (GBP1.3m) and 25 full scholarships from university internal sources
 (GBP1.35m) within this REF period. The new Oxford-Open-Cambridge Doctoral Training
 Program, together with matching college and university funds, has been providing, and will
 continue to provide, funding for future research students.

 From our research centre funding, GPI has provided an annual Parfit doctoral scholarship; FHI
 has awarded 16 doctoral scholarships in the last two years; and Ethics in AI has awarded two
 scholarships this year and will continue to offer at least 2 p.a. in coming years.


 Research objectives in the next five years

 The UoA’s research objectives in the next five years are: (1) to maintain the breadth and depth of
 excellence of Oxford philosophy; (2) to develop further our interdisciplinary research activities with
 colleagues across the university and beyond, in Humanities and in Mathematical, Physical, Life,
 Medical, and Social Sciences; (3) to promote the widest possible dissemination of our research;
 (4) to increase the impact of that research on the world outside academia; and (5) to maintain our
 culture of research integrity.

         1. Maintaining breadth and depth of excellence

 The UoA remains committed to covering a very wide range of areas of philosophy, but with enough
 critical mass to allow depth of activity in each area. We will continue to tailor our advertised posts
 carefully to balance breadth against depth, and to be able to maintain the capacity to develop the
 next generations of research students. In addition to continuing to strengthen our links with Politics
 and Law, we plan to develop research and teaching capacity in the philosophy of economics,
 and we are in the process of hiring in this area (thereby also supporting the pipeline from the
 undergraduate PPE level).

 We have also identified other important new areas in which to broaden our research portfolio,
 whilst also building on existing strengths: these are 1) Mediaeval Islamic Philosophy (building
 on our existing strengths in ancient philosophy, mediaeval philosophy, and early modern
 philosophy, whilst fostering further connections with colleagues in Classics, History, and in
 Oriental Studies) and 2) Indian Philosophy (building on our existing strengths in metaphysics,
 mind, and language, while fostering further connections with colleagues in Theology and Religion,
 and in Oriental Studies). All these links – and many others – will be further fostered and deepened
 by the move to the Schwarzman Centre For the Humanities (see below), which will allow the co-
 location of the great majority of Oxford Humanities faculties for the first time in the modern era.
 The Faculty has sponsored applications to the UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship scheme in both
 the areas of Mediaeval Islamic Philosophy and Indian Philosophy and anticipates making
 permanent appointments to professor/associate professor positions in these two areas in due
 course.


                                                                                                   Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


        2. Interdisciplinary research

 Interdisciplinarity is a reflex for Oxford philosophy, being deeply embedded within our institutional
 structures. The Faculty has extensive links across all four Divisions of the University (Humanities;
 Social Sciences; Mathematical, Physical and Life Sciences; Medical Sciences). These spring all
 the way from the level of our undergraduate degrees (all joint with other departments) and go on
 up: to interdisciplinary Masters courses (Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies; Film
 Aesthetics; Philosophy of Physics, Practical Ethics, Psychological Research); to co-training and
 co-supervision of doctoral students; to interdisciplinary externally-funded research projects; to the
 long-term inter- and multi- disciplinary structures of our research centres; and ultimately to joint
 appointments to permanent posts across disciplinary boundaries.

 A flagship example during the next REF period will be the further development of the Institute for
 Ethics in AI. In addition to the posts already mentioned, we plan further funding for postdocs,
 doctoral students, visiting scholars, and secondments from industry and policy. The activities of
 the new centre intersect with and build on aspects of those already taking place within FHI and
 the Uehiro Centre, and with core research by colleagues in ethics, political philosophy, philosophy
 of mind, and cognitive science. But the new Institute has still broader scope and will increasingly
 reach out across the university to engage colleagues in the social sciences (particularly in the
 Oxford Internet Institute and the Blavatnik School of Government, as mentioned, and in the Faculty
 of Law) and, crucially, engage practitioners in AI across the Medical, Mathematical, Physical, and
 Life Sciences (including in Computer Science, Engineering, Clinical Medicine, and Oxford’s Big
 Data Institute). The Institute will pursue both research and teaching (undergraduate and graduate)
 in addition to post-doctoral training. It will engage with both industry and government and it will
 have significant impact beyond academia. In achieving these ambitious aims the Institute will be
 guided by a steering group which includes Oxford colleagues with relevant expertise from across
 all four Divisions, and will benefit from a (majority external) Advisory Board with distinguished
 international figures with backgrounds in academia (Philosophy and Computer Science), in
 technology and industry, and in government and policy.

 The new institute is only one aspect of our plans for interdisciplinary research: we also intend to
 build further on existing collaborations with other parts of the university. The Uehiro Centre will
 develop its already extensive links with Medicine and Experimental Psychology, as will the GPI
 with Economics, and the FHI with Computer Science, International Relations, and Biosciences.
 The UoA will continue to run its seminars in philosophy of physics, philosophy of mathematics,
 ancient philosophy, and the philosophy of psychology and cognitive science, which attract
 colleagues from across the University. These seminars have seeded successful funding bids for
 interdisciplinary projects, including two projects in the philosophy of physics led by Chris Timpson
 (‘Information at the Quantum Physics/Statistical Mechanics Nexus’ GBP607k from the Templeton
 World Charity Foundation and ‘The role of the observer in quantum theory’, GBP17k, FQXi grant);
 a project on the philosophy of law (which we have already mentioned) led by John Hyman and
 part-hosted by the Faculty (‘The roots of responsibility: metaphysics, humanity and society’,
 GBP260k, from the ERC); a philosophy/psychology/cognitive science project led Nick Shea
 (Institute of Philosophy, London) and hosted by the Faculty (‘Metacognition of Concepts’,
 GBP490k, ERC); and a project in philosophy and psychiatry, led by Julian Savulescu (‘Philosophy
 and Psychiatry’, GBP200k, donation by Pierre Lobel).

 The Faculty will also continue to develop its various networks of links with medicine, mental health
 and particularly the Oxford Department of Psychiatry. This will include building from the framework

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the already established and highly successful biennial conference and summer school
 ‘Philosophy and Psychiatry (Mind, Value and Mental Health)’ led by colleagues Edward Harcourt,
 Anita Avramides, Dan Zahavi and Matt Parrott.

        3. To promote an open research environment

 The UoA promotes an open research environment. We encourage all our colleagues to use our
 institutional repository, the Oxford Research Archive (ORA). Training and support are provided by
 staff in the Bodleian Libraries and via the dedicated ‘open access Oxford’ microsite.

 The University’s Research & Innovation Committee approved a new Open Access Publications
 Policy in March 2018. This supports the ‘green’ route to open access; encourages the use of
 Oxford-linked ORCIDs as a unique author identifier; and mandates the deposit of electronic theses
 into ORA for all doctoral graduates (by default, a thesis is open access on deposit, unless granted
 a 1-year or 3-year embargo).

        4. To increase the impact of our research

 Oxford University and its Philosophy Faculty are committed to making a positive difference to the
 world whenever we can. The UoA will continue to support impact activity, and pathways to impact
 such as public engagement, in three main ways.

 First, by appointing administrators (or academics in an administrative role) to help academics
 identify opportunities for impact, and to measure and evaluate that impact. (More detail is below.)

 Second, by providing funding to allow academics to pursue opportunities to exchange ideas with
 diverse audiences outside academia. This has been done primarily through three sources of
 funding: the university’s dedicated REF support funds, the John Fell Fund (which is designed to
 support research opportunities in all areas), and The Oxford Research Centre for the Humanities
 (TORCH), which offers Knowledge Exchange Fellowships among other activities.

 Finally, we will look for further opportunities to make strategic appointments with the goal of
 developing research-led impact activity in new areas. In the current REF period, we did this with
 our appointments of Dan Zahavi (phenomenology and healthcare) and Natalie Gold (ethics and
 banking, behavioural economics and the NHS). More detail on our Impact Strategy may be found
 below.

    5. To maintain our culture of research integrity

 The UoA maintains and encourages a healthy practice of open and extensive discussion of results,
 hypotheses, theories, and ideas, in part through our regular faculty seminar discussions and work-
 in-progress workshops, but also through our research supervisions for PGR and PGT students,
 and the annual training for academic essay-writing that our graduate students receive, which
 includes discussion of plagiarism and how to avoid it. We have also signed up to the San Francisco
 protocol (DORA) for research assessment (details at
  http://openaccess.ox.ac.uk/2018/08/10/oxford-university-signs-dora/).


 Projects which may involve human participation are always processed through the Central
 University Research Ethics Committee and signed-off by the Faculty Board Chair. The Faculty


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 provides expert support for the Central University Research Ethics Committee (David Leal sits on
 one of the panels).


 Impact Strategy

 Building on the platform of the strongest research, our impact strategy seeks to support the UoA’s
 activity in three ways: first, inculcating a culture of awareness of the possibility of creating impact;
 second, developing research and reaching out to impact audiences; and third, evidencing the
 impact made. Key components then involve recognising when a strand of research is ripe for
 impact, adequately resourcing impact activities, and having structures already in place which
 support such activities. (See §§3-4 below.)

 Much of the work within the UoA’s research centres is very public facing, addressing large and
 important policy, practice, and technological questions. So a large focus of our strategy is on
 supporting impact creation from the research of colleagues in centres which in many cases already
 have extensive links with key target audiences (we give further examples of details of staffing and
 infrastructure to support this in §§3-4 below). But impact can stem from any area of research -
 vide John Broome’s work on rationality and issues addressing climate change. Another good
 example is Dan Zahavi’s work in the philosophy of mind, which has had impact on nurses and
 other healthcare professionals. In this case, we hired a postdoctoral colleague, Anthony
 Fernandez, to help Zahavi reach a broad range of key audiences; together, their work had impact
 upon healthcare training and professional practice in Iceland, Denmark, the UK, the US, Canada,
 and Italy.

 Section 2. People

 How the staffing strategy relates to the unit’s research and impact strategy and physical
 infrastructure

 Our strategy is based, fundamentally, on the recruitment, development, and support of outstanding
 individual talent: people who will contribute to the discipline and can flourish within a transparent,
 equal, and fair framework which fosters collaborative endeavour and the pursuit of novel research
 directions.

 The shape and size of the Faculty is overseen by the Faculty Board, but strategic decisions as to
 research and academic staffing priorities are largely developed on a consultative basis within the
 Faculty. A crucial element is played by the Board, however, in ensuring that any proposed new
 activity can adequately be resourced, whether by securing new streams of funding or by reducing
 previously existing activity. We are keenly aware of the multiple pulls on elite and developing
 researchers, and ensuring that resources are not spread too thinly is essential. (Ready examples
 are provided by our research centres, which we do not establish until a significant and medium-
 to-long term funding source has been identified. These core funding streams can then be amplified
 by multiple shorter-term funding sources.) Further key elements in the staffing strategy include
 careful and supportive supervision and training of graduate students; mentoring, support and
 training for early career researchers; and collaborative advice, peer-support, and career-
 development opportunities for established researchers.

 We are keenly aware too that nothing would happen at all were it not for our administrative and
 professional support staff; and thus a further crucial component of our strategy is to recruit, retain


                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (and offer career development opportunities to) our excellent administrative and professional staff.
 Ensuring adequate administrative and professional support is particularly important at a time when
 the UoA is rapidly growing, as over the last five years, and currently, with our research centres.

 For core academic roles (professors and associate professors) growth is relatively unconstrained
 by physical infrastructure, but physical space for growth in ECR and research centre numbers
 requires more significant planning, and the Faculty secures increased space within the general
 Humanities or broader University provision, or from the private rental market, before proceeding
 with staff growth. We will benefit strongly from our future relocation to the new Stephen
 Schwarzman Centre for the Humanities, due for completion in 2024 (see §3 below), which will
 allow us to bring very many of our activities more closely together, and will provide good capacity
 of flexible space for ECRs and research projects.


 Support for early career researchers

 The UoA is lucky enough to be able to support a large number of early career researchers (ECRs),
 thereby benefitting from the fruits of their research alongside their broader contributions to the
 lively research environment, whilst also helping to sustain the academic pipeline.

 As previously adumbrated, ECRs will be of various types, the main ones being: postdoctoral
 researchers on externally funded projects with a senior UoA member as PI; postdoctoral
 researchers funded by one of our research centres; postdoctoral fellows who hold competitive
 externally funded individual fellowships, hosted by the UoA (such as Leverhulme or British
 Academy fellowships); Departmental Lecturers funded by the Faculty to teach and research (e.g.
 to cover someone’s sabbatical leave, or another gap in the Faculty’s activities or provision); or
 finally Junior Research Fellows (JRFs), or Career Development Fellows, funded by colleges (the
 former tend primarily to be research positions with the option of teaching; the latter, research and
 teaching positions with a contractual requirement to teach a certain amount). ECRs thus engage
 in different ways with the UoA’s research strategy: some ECR appointments will be focussed on
 a particular research project under the direction of a PI; others will have greater freedom to develop
 their own lines of thinking. In all cases, mentoring and support are given, and a wide range of
 training opportunities offered (see more below). In all cases too, any appointment to an ECR
 position will place great weight on the individual research promise of the researcher. For ECR
 posts which involve teaching, we also support our appointees’ research by offering automatically
 contracts which run for the full year, thus stretching three to four months beyond the end of
 teaching commitments.

 The University’s John Fell Fund, supported by an annual transfer from the university press,
 provides important financial support for early career researchers. In particular it provides the
 matching funding for applicants nominated for Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships (four fellows
 through this REF period, who were given internal support of GBP228k in total). All ECRs are
 eligible for internal Faculty research funds (e.g. for travel or to organise meetings and
 conferences). In the REF period the UoA has also hosted four British Academy Postdoctoral
 Fellows and five Marie Curie-Skłodowska Fellows. In all cases, these fellowship applications need
 to be supported by a UoA PI, to ensure fit with the Faculty’s research priorities. Since most JRFs
 are open to cross-disciplinary competition, the number of philosophers in such positions per year
 varies, but in the REF period there have been at least seventeen JRFs in philosophy. The Faculty
 has also supported 12 Departmental Lecturers during this period, which it classifies as teaching



                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and research staff, therefore providing each DL with access to the range of induction and support
 outlined.

 The UoA provides induction courses for all new members of academic staff. Each ECR has a
 mentor or other supporter appointed by the UoA: this is an experienced member of staff whose
 areas of interest are as close as possible to the ECR’s or, in relevant cases, will be their PI. ECRs
 also have the opportunity to benefit from a wide range of specific university training courses,
 covering all aspects of career development (including writing, project design, research grant
 application and management, equality and diversity, research integrity, computing, and finance)
 and of public engagement, organised by TORCH. Teaching development training is also offered
 by the university’s Centre for Learning and Teaching. Mentors/PIs encourage and advise ECRs
 concerning relevant training. ECRs have a representative who sits on the Research Committee of
 the Faculty Board.

 Some of the UoA’s research centres have specific needs to train and develop ECRs with bespoke
 interdisciplinary abilities, particularly FHI and GPI. Accordingly these centres deploy special
 programmes to develop and support their next generations of researchers. FHI has developed a
 Research Scholars programme which straddles post-graduate and post-doctoral levels, taking in
 8-10 research scholars per year from a very wide range of academic backgrounds, training and
 supporting them in FHI’s interdisciplinary approaches. GPI runs a very selective postdoctoral
 programme aiming to recruit philosophy and economics researchers who can combine the skills
 of both disciplines; it also offers a broader annual extended workshop/conference programme (the
 Early Career Conference Programme) which offers focussed and supported opportunities to a
 wide range of postgraduate and early postdoctoral students to experience doing, and presenting,
 global priorities research work.

 Through the support of the UoA, research fellows and other ECRs typically go on to jobs in the
 profession, in the UK, the US, or elsewhere. During this REF period, our ECRs have taken up
 tenure track or permanent posts in the University of Birmingham (Luke Brunning, Martin Pickup),
 University of Tennessee (Georgi Gardiner), University of Durham (Anna Marmodoro), Birkbeck
 (Andrew Huddelson), Edinburgh (Jason Carter), Leeds (Ellen Clarke), NYU (Matthew
 Mandelkern), University of Washington, St. Louis (Jake Quilty-Dunn), University of Pittsburgh
 (Kevin Dorst), Tokyo University (Takuya Okada), as well as five appointments to permanent posts
 in Oxford (Alex Bown, Will Davies, Amia Srinivasan, Matthew Parrott, and Natalia Waights
 Hickman). The Uehiro Centre has a particularly strong track record of mentoring ECRs into the
 profession (including: David Birks, Hong Kong; Jan Bublitz, Bielefeld; Rebecca Roache, RHUL;
 Joshua Shepherd, Carleton, Canada; Owen Schaefer, Singapore; Chris Gyngell, Melbourne;
 Sylvia Terbeck, Plymouth; Regina Rini, Canada Research Chair; Carissa Veliz, Oxford).


 Career development at all stages

 The UoA recognises its significant role in, and responsibility for, supporting the development of
 research staff at all levels. Whilst making space for individuals to develop their own research
 achievements and agendas, the Faculty supports, helps and advises, as we now detail:

 Oxford University has implemented the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers via its own Code of Practice for the Employment and Career Development of
 Research Staff. This code of practice maps closely to the Concordat, but is tailored to fit Oxford’s
 staff and the University’s own organizational structures. It has resulted in the University’s gaining
 the European Commission’s HR Excellence in Research Award. The UoA’s Research Committee

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 has taken steps to ensure that this code of practice is implemented at the Faculty level. In
 particular, it has made all PIs in the UoA aware of the code, of their responsibilities as line
 managers, and of the resources available to support them. All research staff are informed of the
 code and it is appended to contracts of new research staff. The Committee also engages with the
 appointment of a Research Staff Coordinator, who is responsible for championing research staff
 issues, for acting as a central point of information, advice, and guidance for research staff, and for
 keeping PIs and research staff up to date with regular information about training and funding
 opportunities. There is a wide variety of valuable training courses (paralleling those available for
 early career researchers, but also including facets pertaining to more senior leadership) available
 for more established colleagues too, whether provided by the central university or more locally
 within the Humanities Division.

 A key part of our strategy centres on collaborative advice, peer-support, and provision of career-
 development opportunities for established researchers. These are offered in a number of ways:
 new appointments to academic positions (professors or associate professors) will meet regularly
 with their mentor (a friendly and established figure in the relevant field who will offer advice on
 their research, teaching and on Faculty structures and practices) and also with the Chair of the
 Faculty Board who helps set research expectations, assists in planning to achieve these,
 discusses balances of duties between research, teaching and administration, and alongside the
 Director of Research, offers advice about research project plans, grant applications and
 publishing. Much value is added more informally by way of peer-support and advice within
 research cluster groupings, and within specific Faculty work-in-progress and research-plan
 workshops. These peer support structures are also maintained beyond the initial three-to-five year
 period in post, and the Faculty Board Chair, Director of Research, and other senior colleagues,
 are active in supporting career development opportunities.

 These opportunities arise in various ways: they may take the form of a leadership role within the
 UoA with some relief from other regular duties, or in some other form of variation of duties; they
 may take the form of support in developing a large funded project, or in securing an individual
 research fellowship, which would allow an extended period of more intense research focus; they
 may take the form of support in developing new directions of research interest; they may take the
 form of support in applying for Recognition of Distinction (academic promotion) within the
 university scheme which awards professorial title, or in the further Professorial Merit scheme for
 those already at the professorial level.

        Career development example 1

        Hilary Greaves provides a good example. She undertook her PhD at Rutgers and was then
        appointed to an ERC post in Oxford (a JRF at Merton College). From this she moved to an
        associate professor position, with a research focus in philosophy of physics, which she
        held at the beginning of the current REF period. During the course of her associate
        professorship she developed new research interests in ethics which she crystallised in
        discussions with colleagues. Pump-priming from the university’s Fell fund led to a major
        Leverhulme award, which in turn allowed her to begin laying the ground to develop the
        GPI. The UoA supported her by varying her duties to allow extra focus on her research
        projects, and furthermore she was promoted to professor. Now, having established the
        GPI, she continues to lead the Institute, which has been of significant value to the UoA.

        Career development example 2


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        A different example is given by Amia Srinivasan. Srinivasan began her Oxford DPhil at the
        beginning of the current REF period, having first studied the BPhil. She won an ECR award
        (a Prize Fellowship – a kind of Junior Research Fellowship – at All Souls College) during
        the course of her studies. At the end of this she was appointed as a permanent Lecturer
        (assistant or associate professor equivalent) at UCL, before being appointed to an
        associate professorship in Oxford, in 2018, with research foci in epistemology and feminist
        philosophy. In 2020 she was appointed to the Chichele Chair in Social and Political Theory,
        and she plays a key role in supporting research between philosophy and politics and in
        maintaining the UoAs teaching and research profile in feminist philosophy.

 A final valuable facet of UoA staffing policy which supports established researchers is that holders
 of permanent posts enjoy a sabbatical entitlement which relieves of teaching and administrative
 duties for one term in seven.


 Training and supervision of PGR students

 The core of our PGR provision is attentive personal supervision by our researchers, within an
 exceptionally vivid research environment in which our PGR’s can enjoy rich opportunities to
 interact with faculty, visiting academics, and one another.

 The UoA has several postgraduate programmes, all of international renown. Each aims to prepare
 students for an academic career in philosophy. The standard progression is to take either the two-
 year BPhil course or one of the two specialist one-year MSt courses, in Ancient Philosophy or
 Philosophy of Physics, and then to continue research for a DPhil, for which one submits a thesis
 of up to 75,000 words. Each year an average of thirty students begin the BPhil course, an average
 of fifteen students start the two MSt courses combined, and an average of twenty students begin
 the DPhil program, having completed either the BPhil in Oxford or a comparable course elsewhere.
 The UoA also hosts graduate students in Oxford—known as recognized students—who are not
 enrolled for an Oxford degree but who are temporarily pursuing their research under the direction
 of one or more Oxford philosophers. The UoA hosted a total of 114 recognised students through
 this REF period. We have recently established another MSt, in Practical Ethics, run by colleagues
 in the Uehiro Centre, which is primarily part-time. This programme also provides a route into the
 DPhil.

 The BPhil course is extremely competitive. Each year both the number and the quality of the
 applications are very high. In the last five years, on average we have received 250 applications
 per year and made 66 offers (with a final intake of 30 students per year). During the course, each
 candidate submits six assessed essays (5,000 words each) across at least five subjects, together
 with a thesis of up to 30,000 words. The five subjects must themselves satisfy various further
 conditions to ensure that they have a suitably wide spread, including a substantial historical
 component. Thus the BPhil course can still be regarded not only as a training for the DPhil, but
 also as a basis for teaching a wide range of philosophical subjects. The two established MSt
 courses provide something similar, but more focused and on a smaller scale. They are designed
 for candidates whose qualifications in either classics or physics fit them for research in the
 corresponding specialist area in philosophy. The part-time structure of the Practical Ethics MSt
 makes it accessible to professionals working in salient fields (e.g., medicine, law, government)
 who may then proceed to research, or return to their profession with skills enhanced (or indeed,
 both).



                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The major external source of funding for our students is the AHRC, and for recent rounds we have
 made a successful bid, along with the Open University and the University of Cambridge, for a
 Doctoral Training Partnership. Since 2013 we have had 35 students funded (typically 1-2 BPhil
 students each year, and the remainder DPhil students). There are many other sources of funding,
 including some external, such as the Wellcome Trust, the Rhodes Trust, the Commonwealth
 Scholarship Commission or the British Society for the Philosophy of Science, and others internal,
 such as the Clarendon Fund, the Ertegun programme (which operates across the Humanities and
 seeks to bring together the world’s top graduate students to foster dialogue across disciplines and
 cultures, with a physical hub in the fine Ertegun House building in central Oxford, and a bespoke
 programme of additional lectures and seminars), or scholarships provided by colleges. Colleges
 and the Faculty also co-operate in co-funding certain students. At present we fund about eight of
 our applicants from internal funding sources each year; our newest research centre streams of
 funding, as previously mentioned, will add to this.

 Once postgraduate students are in Oxford, there are further ways in which they can receive
 financial help: e.g., funding is available for conference travel, both from the UoA and from their
 colleges. Those with families to support have use of the University’s subsidized childcare services.
 The Faculty warmly encourages its PGRs to make the most of the training and personal
 development opportunities offered by the University’s Learning and Teaching Training
 programme. We are committed to equal opportunity in the recruitment and support of graduate
 students, and to supporting graduates with children through nursery provision and flexible working.

 We are fortunate to enjoy strong administrative support for our graduates, provided by the UoA’s
 accomplished graduate administrative team and by the Humanities Division’s unit for researcher
 development and support. The graduates themselves elect a graduate training representative,
 who receives a stipend. The graduates and administrative team work together, alongside Faculty
 members, to provide a series of talks and training sessions for the graduates, preparing them for
 the different stages of becoming independent researchers, as well as providing information on
 non-academic careers.

 In addition, graduate supervisors are very active in preparing DPhil students for academic jobs
 (where they wish to remain in academia). Typically, students have two supervisors, who, beyond
 supervising the student’s work, will advise on publishing and applying for jobs. Each student also
 has a college advisor (usually another philosopher, but perhaps not in the specific field of the
 student) who likewise tracks their progress and who can be consulted independently. All
 supervision and other student progress and support is monitored by the Director of Graduate
 Studies and by the Philosophy Graduate Studies Committee. The UoA furthermore runs an active
 Placement Scheme under the guidance of an experienced colleague who is appointed as
 Placement Director. The Placement Director advises students on job applications and on job-
 market preparation from an early stage, oversees with supervisors the development of applicants’
 dossiers, and arranges, with the help of colleagues, practice job talks and mock job interviews.
 The UoA encourages doctoral students intending to pursue an academic career to obtain teaching
 experience. We run a Graduate Teaching Scheme under which graduate teaching assistants
 contribute to first-year undergraduate classes, notably by marking the undergraduates’ work, and
 facilitate other graduate teaching in colleges. Graduates may also apply to give a course of
 undergraduate lectures towards the end of their studies. This popular scheme has the double
 benefit of allowing graduates to gain experience and hone their skills, whilst exposing
 undergraduates to some of the most recent philosophical work being done. (Recently approved
 lecture courses in this scheme are: ‘Philosophy, Rhetoric and Sophistry’, Sybilla Pereira; ‘Cinema
 and the Mind’, Emmanuel Angula; and ‘Properties’, Katherine Hong.)

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The UoA offers around thirty graduate classes each year (each class typically running for eight
 weeks), in addition to our research seminars. PGT students are required to attend a certain
 number of these, but all our graduate students are encouraged to attend and participate in any
 classes or seminars that may be of interest to them, and they do so enthusiastically. Graduate
 students run weekly meetings of the Ockham Society, where they present and discuss their own
 papers among a supportive peer group. The UoA encourages them to create similar further groups
 with more specialist interests: for many years, they have organized a weekly seminar to discuss
 recent work in epistemology, metaphysics, the philosophy of language and the philosophy of
 physics in the presence of a senior philosopher. They also run the annual two-day Graduate
 Philosophical Conference, subsidized both by the UoA and by outside organizations such as the
 Analysis Trust and the Mind Association. They referee approximately 150 submissions for this
 conference, which attracts many overseas speakers. Faculty members reply to graduate speakers
 at the conference, while our own graduate students reply to two senior visiting keynote speakers.
 This year’s keynote speakers are L.A. Paul and Tim Crane.

 Some of our graduates do not wish to pursue an academic career, and extensive advice and
 support is offered by the highly regarded Oxford Careers Service as well as by the faculty. For
 others who choose to stay on the academic pathway, the faculty has a strong record of success.
 In the period since 2013, our graduates have secured teaching posts at Oxford, Cambridge,
 Birmingham, Edinburgh, KCL, Wolverhampton, CUNY, UCLA, Auburn University, Davidson
 College, Hunter College, Dublin, and Chicago. Others go first to a postdoc or research fellowship
 ECR position where they can concentrate on research for a few years. Recent graduates went to
 such positions in Oxford, Cambridge, KCL, Toronto, Australian Catholic University, Copenhagen,
 Harvard, Wake Forest, Hong Kong, Haifa, Salzburg, Dusseldorf, Geneva, Aachen, and Oslo.
 Many either immediately, or after a fixed-term teaching or research post, have gone on to secure
 permanent jobs in philosophy departments around the world. Since 2013, our graduates have
 taken up permanent posts at Oxford, UCL, Southampton, Birmingham, UC Dublin, Trinity College,
 Dublin, Munich, Pittsburgh, Harvard, Princeton, Erlangen, Zurich, Tartu, Bogota, University of Los
 Andes, and University of the Faroe Islands.


 Support for equality and diversity

 The UoA volunteered to participate in a trial for the Equality Challenge Unit’s gender equality
 charter mark, which follows the model of Athena SWAN. We implemented our plan for the Equality
 Challenge charter mark, leading to various of the developments noted below, and we are now
 working towards an Athena SWAN award. The post of Equality and Diversity Officer, an ex officio
 member of the Faculty Board, was created to bring focus to these developments and is held by a
 senior colleague, but equality and diversity emphases are recognised as shared responsibilities
 by all senior UoA colleagues, and particularly by all Faculty Board officers. Valuable support for
 women graduate students is provided by our long-standing post of Women’s Graduate Officer,
 who puts on workshops and events several times a year.

 Amongst recent changes, we have taken opportunities to draw attention to the many
 achievements of the outstanding women philosophers of Oxford (past and present) by prominently
 displaying portrait photographs in our building and by publishing a series of articles about them in
 our Faculty magazine (which is sent gratis to alumni and alumnae). We strive to achieve equity in
 our invitations to speak at our seminar series, and we have revised all our reading lists with the
 aim of ensuring that at least 40% of the prescribed books and articles are by women authors. We


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 have also organised a series of conferences celebrating past Oxford women philosophers,
 including Phillippa Foot, Kathy Wilkes, Elizabeth Anscombe, and Iris Murdoch.

 We have laid down new guidelines (which we frequently reiterate to all class givers and circulate
 to new cohorts of students) to make classes and seminars more inclusive. Training on balanced
 class and seminar contribution is provided for new graduate students, and we have instituted
 various measures during Faculty talks to ensure that all voices are heard, such as giving students
 priority in asking questions. We have also signed up to the British Philosophy Association-Society
 for Women in Philosophy good practice scheme.

 Diversity has also been advanced in our undergraduate and graduate curriculum. Feminist
 philosophy has been introduced as an ongoing (and highly subscribed) element at both levels
 (supported by our new appointments in this area) and we have organised classes and events to
 increase the representation of non-Western philosophy. With the assistance of colleagues in the
 Faculty of Theology and Religion, we have been able regularly to offer a graduate course in Indian
 philosophy, and more recently also an undergraduate special subject in Indian Philosophy. We
 have also run some one-off events in Chinese Philosophy, and Rafal Banka, who recently joined
 the faculty as a Research Fellow, will be offering undergraduate lectures in Chinese Philosophy
 and then in subsequent years a graduate class. Our future strategic plans include, as noted,
 provision in Indian Philosophy and Mediaeval Islamic Philosophy.

 The UoA has also supported a number of conferences and workshops relating to women in
 philosophy, including the ‘Equality, Diversity and the Ethics of Professional Philosophy’ conference
 in 2015 and the ‘Feminism in/and Philosophy’ conference in 2014, both of which brought leading
 national and international philosophers from around the world to Oxford. There is an active chapter
 of MAP (Minorities and Philosophy – an international organisation working to remove barriers of
 participation for minorities in philosophy) amongst UoA students. As well as organising talks and
 workshops, MAP offers peer mentoring for minorities students.

 The UoA has been successful in increasing the proportion of women in its most senior positions.
 Two of the six statutory chairs, whose holders are expected to lead the research groups in the
 relevant areas, are held by women: Ofra Magidor (Waynflete Chair in Metaphysics – a position
 only once previously held by a woman) and Ursula Coope (Chair in Ancient Philosophy: the first
 ever female holder of this post). Thus, a third of our statutory professorships are now held by
 women. In addition, four female philosophers hold senior posts at All Souls College (Susanne
 Bobzien, Cecile Fabre, Amia Srinivasan, and Cecilia Trifogli). At the same time, two of our most
 significant leadership posts, Chair of the Faculty and Director of Research, are held by women
 (Ursula Coope and Ofra Magidor); they succeeded Anita Avramides and Alison Hills. Hilary
 Greaves is the first female director of a Research Centre.

 Selection committees for all posts must contain at least one woman and at least one man, and the
 chair of any committee (and usually all the committee members) must have undergone the
 University’s recruitment and selection training (which covers a wide range of topics including
 legislation, best practice, and implicit bias) before being able to serve. There is a returning carer’s
 fund supplied by the university that has been made use of by members of the Faculty. There is
 subsidized childcare available, and the university offers a generous parental leave scheme.

 The UoA has reaffirmed its commitment to equality and diversity in hiring, with the result
 that 48% of appointments to professor or associate professor posts over the last five years
 have been women, rising to over 50% in the last three years. Recent hires to permanent posts

                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 include: Catharine Abell, Rachel Fraser, Amia Srinivasan, Mari Mikkola, Marion Durand, Alice
 Crary, Natalia Waights-Hickman, Kate Kirkpatrick, Louise Hanson, and Carisa Veliz. Key
 measures have involved focussed efforts of appointments panels to encourage strong applicants
 from underrepresented groups to apply to positions.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Strategies for gaining research income

 Both the UoA and the University more generally very effectively foster a culture in which
 applications for external research awards – where these arise naturally from, and will support,
 colleagues’ research trajectory – are encouraged, leading to many, and strong, applications.
 Important roles are played in this process by the Faculty’s Director of Research, and by the
 Humanities Division’s experienced and efficient team of research facilitators, who work with
 applicants from inception of idea, to funder identification, project definition, proposal writing and
 submission. The UoA’s research centres are particularly successful at raising research income,
 and they have dedicated research administrators to assist with grant applications. As described
 above (§2) senior colleagues such as the Director of Research and Faculty Board Chair discuss
 research plans with UoA colleagues and help them develop funding proposals at the appropriate
 junctures.

 In 2006 the University launched the John Fell Fund, designed to ‘foster creativity and a proactive
 approach to research opportunities in all subject areas, and particularly interdisciplinary fields’.
 The UoA has made good use of this fund, both in terms of pump-priming for larger awards and as
 a means of securing additional research time to allow individual members to complete particular
 research projects. Awards from the Fell Fund to Hilary Greaves and Anil Gomes led to successful
 applications for (respectively) a Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship (which in turn led to her
 setting up GPI) and a British Academy mid-career Fellowship.

 The Oxford Research Centre for the Humanities (TORCH), launched in 2012, provides a physical
 and intellectual base for individual postdoctoral researchers, and also employs a number of
 research staff directly. It plays an important role in identifying and exploiting synergies that occur
 between different research centres and projects across the Humanities Division, which might
 otherwise go unnoticed, it offers extensive career support and training, and it promotes public
 engagement with Oxford-based research in the humanities.

 During the REF period the UoA has had great success record in securing grants, winning
 GBP27m of funding. This includes 7 awards from the British Academy, 8 from the Wellcome
 Trust, 8 from the European Commission, and 11 from the Leverhulme Trust. Our portfolio of
 external research funding is striking in its variety as well as its scale. As well as traditional funders
 of humanities research such as the AHRC, the Leverhulme Trust, and the British Academy, our
 list includes the John Templeton Foundation, the Templeton World Charity Foundation, the Royal
 Society, the Australian Research Council, the Melbourne Law School, the Carlsberg Foundation,
 and the Volkswagen-Stiftung.


 We expect our success at grant capture to be further enhanced when we move to the new Stephen
 A. Schwarzman Centre for the Humanities in 2024. The new Centre (which is in advanced stages
 of planning) will be on the Radcliffe site, near to our present accommodation, and adjacent to the
 Mathematical Institute building. We will be part of a huge Humanities complex, comprising

                                                                                                  Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 teaching rooms, administrative and academic offices, workspace for graduates, libraries and a
 concert hall, along with other performance and Knowledge Exchange spaces. Some of our
 research centres will move to the new building and there will be flexible research space to host
 large grants and other funded research activities. The Centre will allow us to bring more of our
 activities together in one place, thereby enhancing faculty cohesion, while promoting our
 interdisciplinary partnerships across the Humanities. TORCH will also move to the building, and
 the Institute for Ethics in AI will have a very prominent footprint in the building to support its public-
 facing and interdisciplinary activities, including its collaborative links with the Oxford Internet
 Institute, which will also be moving to the building. In future years, Computer Science – another
 important collaborator for the UoA, both via Ethics in AI and more broadly – will be established in
 a neighbouring new building, meaning the UoA will enjoy close adjacency to two of our key science
 partners.

 While our funding streams might expect some adjustment in the light of the UK’s departure from
 the EU, it is worth noting that during the current REF period roughly 85% of our external research
 income has come from UK or non-EU sources.


 Organizational infrastructure supporting research and impact

 Within the central University, Research Services facilitates and supports research across the
 institution and knowledge exchange between the University’s researchers, government,
 community organisations, and industry. The unit’s work also complements the work of the
 Humanities Division’s team of research facilitators. Among other things, it is focused on assisting
 researchers to identify funding opportunities, supporting the preparation and submission of
 proposals and the start-up of new projects, and providing advice and support to researchers
 through the project lifecycle (in this respect it is supported by a separate unit, Research Accounts).
 Other groups in Research Services offer specialized support in relation to research integrity;
 research systems and training; research information management; profiling the intellectual,
 cultural, social and economic impact of Oxford research; University and Divisional planning and
 research policy; and strategic links. Oxford University Innovation (OUI) provides advice and
 support about the development of spin-off companies, and about maximizing the benefits of
 consultancy arrangements for University staff. Media training is provided by the University’s Press
 and Information Office, which also coordinates and promotes the publication of news stories
 arising from research across the University. The Faculty have made use of these facilities, notably
 in raising the profile of impact activity for the impact case studies, e.g. by Jeremy Howick, most
 recently in publicizing his work on placebos.


 How equality and diversity has been addressed

 The UoA is deeply committed to equality and diversity and has taken steps to ensure that this is
 implemented in what we do. As explained in detail in §2, we have taken (and continue to take) a
 series of measures to improve all aspects of equality and diversity: spanning increased
 representation in teaching and research, visibility initiatives, guidelines in seminars and classes to
 ensure an inclusive atmosphere in the department, and more general structural measures such
 as the appointment of a women’s officer and an equality and diversity officer, and working towards
 an Athena Swan award.




                                                                                                   Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 How infrastructure is utilised in relation to impact

 The UoA and the University have together put in place a robust structure to ensure the vitality and
 sustainability of our impact activity.

 First, we have created new administrative posts. The Humanities Division has appointed an Impact
 and Evaluation (I&E) Officer; the UoA has created the role of Impact Fellow. The holders of these
 posts work closely together to encourage and promote impact activity within the Faculty.

 The I&E officer has weekly office hours for anyone to drop in and discuss their ideas, and helps
 them to monitor and measure impact where it arises organically out of their research. She also
 runs a forum where those administering Impact from across the Humanities meet to share ideas
 for developing impact (including case studies) and public engagement. She trains researchers
 and administrators on the evaluation of impact, and also gives one-to-one advice and guidance
 on impact and evaluation. She works closely with our research facilitators to advise on funding
 applications with a public engagement and impact component.

 The Impact Fellow holds regular meetings with Faculty members whose research might lead to
 impact or public engagement. This has resulted in a surplus of impact case studies: whereas the
 UoA is required to submit eight, eleven case studies were produced for our dry run.

 The central PER (Public Engagement with Research) and TORCH teams run regular programmes
 to support engagement and impact. A PER/TORCH summer school supports early career
 researchers, and the training we give our DPhil students includes the development, monitoring
 and evaluation of impact.

 There are several sources of funding available within the university to seed impact-related
 activities. Jeremy Howick and Dominic Wilkinson both had awards that helped the development
 of the impact case studies which they led. Knowledge Exchange (KE) fellowships are available for
 engagement that may lead to impact.

 Our research centres are important sources of impactful research. The GPI was set up with impact
 explicitly part of its mission, and it will provide one of our case studies. Our planning for the Institute
 for Ethics in AI takes a similar form. The Uehiro Centre and FHI, have a history of significant public
 engagement and impact. To ensure that this continues, both have appointed administrators whose
 jobs include facilitating impact activities. These administrators work closely with our impact leads
 to ensure that we make the most of the research that could lead to significant impact. The Uehiro
 Centre has furthermore recently appointed a public engagement and special projects manager.


 The nature and quality of research facilities

 The University’s many libraries (known collectively as the Bodleian) contain more than 13 million
 items, and stock is added at an average of one thousand items per day. Together, this makes
 them the largest and most diverse collection for the support of teaching and research in any HEI
 in the UK. As well as the legal deposit material, which ensures that the Bodleian receives a free
 copy of all philosophy books and journals published in the UK (whether printed or electronic), a
 number of US academic presses voluntarily deposit their publications in the Library. In addition to
 its vast print and archival collections, the Bodleian offers access to over 100,000 electronic


                                                                                                    Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 journals, newspapers, and magazines and over 1,500 licensed electronic databases and
 reference works. E-journal article requests average 10.3 million p.a., while database searches
 average 14.4 million. Current e-book stock is over 1,000,000 items, with 9.9 million section
 requests in the last academic year. The Bodleian’s current annual expenditure for electronic
 resources is over GBP6,084,465.
 The annual philosophy materials budget for purchased items (books, journals, and e-resources)
 exceeds GBP100,000 (not including e-resources purchased through other cost-centres). Subject-
 specific e-resources for philosophy include Philosopher’s Index, International Bibliography of
 Philosophy (IPB), Past Masters, Phil Papers, Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy, and the
 whole corpus of Oxford University Press e-publications, including Oxford Scholarship Online,
 Oxford Reference Online, and Oxford Bibliographies Online. Print provision for Philosophy is
 divided between the Central Bodleian’s Lower Reading Room, which houses the open access
 reference collections for philosophy, the closed stacks, where 8.5 million items are available by e-
 order and daily delivery, and the lending collection of the Philosophy and Theology Faculties
 Library (PTFL), located in our faculty building. The collection comprises 50,000 books, available
 on open shelves or by order from closed access. Holdings cover all periods of western philosophy
 from classical to contemporary and all the main branches of philosophy. There are approximately
 3,500 library members (including members of other faculties), and loans average 80,000 each
 year.

 From 2024, PTFL will form part of a new Humanities Library in the Schwarzman Centre. The
 Library will be a fundamental element of the new centre, supporting teaching and research at the
 highest levels. It will underpin key elements of the cultural programme, and help showcase
 humanities research. It will build on the collections and subject expertise of the faculty libraries of
 English, Film Studies, History of Medicine, Music, Philosophy, and Theology and Religion (already
 used extensively by academics and students from other Faculties), and draw in subject and other
 expertise from elsewhere in the Bodleian libraries, the wider University, and beyond. The Library
 will provide collections, staff expertise, facilities (especially digital), and space for quiet study, for
 training, and for collaborative research and learning. The philosophy collections and the materials
 budget are managed by the Philosophy and Theology Librarian, who works in close collaboration
 with members of the Philosophy Faculty and with other subject librarians. In addition, there are
 the many excellent college libraries, each with its own philosophy collection.


 The UoA employs a dedicated IT Manager and several IT Assistants who together provide
 specialist support to Faculty members, graduates, and visitors. Additional support is provided at
 the University level by IT Services, whose Help Centre offers a single location and point of contact
 for all front-line user support services. Individual faculty members and graduate students can also
 call on IT support, advice, and other resources from their colleges.

 Evidence of collaborative use of research infrastructure (UK and overseas)

 The faculty has part-hosted a number of projects with partners in the UK and overseas, including
 John Hyman’s ERC law and philosophy project (joint with UCL), and Nick Shea’s metacognition
 project (joint with Institute of Philosophy, University of London).




                                                                                                   Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 Arrangements and effectiveness of research collaborations and indicators for success

 The UoA has an international outlook and many of our faculty have national or international
 research collaborations. These range from connections between individual researchers with
 similar interests, which result in joint publications and research projects, to networks between
 research centres.

 The Uehiro Centre has particularly strong links with Australian universities (especially Monash)
 and with the Psychology Department at Yale, with whom they conduct experiments and joint
 research on moral psychology.

 Mari Mikkola has been part of research networks of social metaphysics in Barcelona and Basel.
 Ofra Magidor has been part of an international network funded by the Leverhulme Trust (‘What’s
 so special about the de se?’), and is one of two collaborators in a four year grant from the Canadian
 Research council (SSHRC) (‘Property Versatility: Motivations and Applications’).

 Alexander Prescott-Crouch is part of a research team funded by the Harvard Dean Fund for the
 project "The Limits of Interventionist Approaches to Inequality Research’.

 Louise Hanson is a collaborator on a three-year research grant, funded by the Swedish Research
 Council: ‘What if Nothing Truly Matters? Nihilism and Its Implications’.

 Dan Zahavi retains strong links with the University of Copenhagen and his publications and impact
 activity are joint with colleagues from there.

 Many Oxford philosophers have strong links with colleagues abroad, including the University of
 Southern California (Ofra Magidor, Rachel Fraser, Bernhard Salow and Hilary Greaves); MIT and
 NYU (Bernhard Salow) and the University of Calgary (Ofra Magidor). Joel Hamkins, Guy Kahane,
 and Philip Koralus have had numerous collaborations with researchers in other disciplines
 (Mathematics, Computer Science, Neuroscience, Psychology, Geography, Linguistics).

 In addition, each year very many philosophers visit Oxford, to give talks or to collaborate over
 longer periods with research groups here. In the REF period, 88 philosophers visited the faculty
 for longer research stays and a further 68 specifically in the Uehiro centre.


 Evidence of how staff interacted with key research users to develop impact

 The UoA is committed to ensuring that its research has a wide impact in society outside academia
 wherever this is appropriate. The major impactful activity is outlined in our case studies, but here
 we briefly give evidence of other impactful interactions.

 Many of our faculty work with schools to increase engagement with and understanding of
 philosophical ideas. Aside from standard outreach talks, some of our members have more
 ambitious and creative links to school children. Paul Lodge has recorded a series of philosophical
 songs, ‘I sing therefore I am’, to make philosophical ideas more accessible to the wider public,
 with a particular focus on children. He gave four performances in Oxford and Stratford during 2019;
 recordings are available on his website (https://www.paullodge.com/projects).


                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Peter Millican has led a highly successful computer science and philosophy project in schools
 which was the basis of one of our impact case studies in REF 2014. Since then, his project has
 grown even further, winning two grants from the Department of Education totalling GBP95k. This
 allowed significant development of the Turtle software, which many schools now use, plus the
 creation of the www.turtle.ox.ac.uk website, which includes many resources for teachers, including
 the Computer Science Across the Curriculum booklet and programs. In addition, with support from,
 Google (USD100k) and matching university funding (GBP47k), Millican has developed the UK
 Bebras Competition. This year 143,000 schoolchildren took part, with the 240 best being invited
 to four “second round” days in Oxford, reported in many local newspapers and school publications
 etc. He is developing a follow-on competition, the “TCS Oxford Computing Challenge”, supported
 by GBP50k from TCS.

 The UoA has strong links to military professionals and international lawyers through Jeff
 McMahan’s highly influential work on the ethics of war. McMahan has been invited to present his
 ideas to various audiences in other disciplines including the various law schools in the UK and the
 US, as well as International Law Unit, Human Rights Law Centre, University of Nottingham;
 Stockdale Center for Ethical Leadership at the US Naval Academy; the Carnegie Council on Ethics
 and International Affairs, and the Naval Postgraduate School, Monterey.

 The UoA retains close links with the NHS. As several of our case studies show, the Uehiro Centre
 and UoA colleagues attached to the Wellcome Centre for Ethics and Humanities have especially
 strong links with medical professionals, as does Dan Zahavi with nursing practitioners in the UK
 and overseas. There are, however, further links outside these studies. Natalie Gold’s research on
 behavioural change in public health has been taken up by Public Health England and the NHS. In
 2019, she spoke at the national meeting of NHS Health Check leads and the National NHS Health
 Check letter was amended in line with her results. In 2019 a workshop in LSE (entitled ‘Welfare,
 preference, and Risk: Theory, Behavioural Evidence, and Policy’) brought together philosophers
 with policy makers and practitioners. A further workshop linked to the Expert Advisory Committee
 on Antimicrobial Resistance and Healthcare Associated Infections (ARHAI) was planned, but
 currently postponed due to the COVID-19 crisis.

 The Uehiro Centre has very rapidly carried out an extremely broad range of work bearing on the
 COVID pandemic with highlights including 15 papers already published or in press, covering topics
 in vaccination ethics, resource allocation and exit strategies, and a number of submissions to UK
 government bodies, submitted written evidence to the UK Parliament Joint Committee on Human
 Rights (JCHR) on ‘Compulsory vaccination for Covid-19 and human rights law’. Projects are listed
 at https://www.practicalethics.ox.ac.uk/pandemic-ethics.

 The UoA also has links with business (Dominic Scott, on models of management); banking
 (Natalie Gold, on trust in banking); and the technological and IT industries (Peter Millican, Toby
 Ord, Nick Bostrom, Luciano Floridi). These last links particularly will be developed significantly
 further with the development of the Institute for Ethics in AI.

 The range, diversity and quality of the impactful activity undertaken by the Faculty, directed at very
 different kinds of audience for different purposes, combined with the expertise in public
 engagement and impact concentrated in our research centres, means that the Faculty can be very
 confident of the vitality and sustainability of its impact in the future.



                                                                                               Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Support for interdisciplinary research

 At undergraduate level in Oxford, philosophy is always taught in combination with other disciplines,
 so an interdisciplinary approach to the subject is part of the UoA’s DNA. This is borne out in various
 ways. One is the distinctive interplay in Oxford between philosophy and psychology. The Wilde
 Chair of Mental Philosophy is embedded in the Department of Experimental Psychology, and the
 continuing history of interaction provides ongoing opportunities for research, not only at the
 interface between philosophy and psychology, but also at that between philosophy, psychiatry,
 and neuroscience.

 Similarly, faculty with research interests in the philosophy of physics have profitable interactions
 with members of the Departments of Physics, Materials, and increasingly Computer Science. A
 project funded by the John Templeton Foundation (‘Establishing the philosophy of cosmology’,
 Sep 2011-Dec 2014), brought together philosophers and physicists from Oxford, Cambridge, and
 some US universities including Columbia, Rutgers, and NYU. The project culminated in a major
 international conference (‘Philosophy of Cosmology’, Tenerife, Sep 2014), and the publication of
 the volume of that name by Cambridge University Press (2017).

 The UoA’s research centres foster a great deal of interdisciplinary work. The primary examples in
 the Uehiro Centre lie in collaborative work with experimental psychologists, neuroscientists, and
 psychiatrists. This has included fMRI studies and psychopharmacological studies, as well as more
 philosophical work. Uehiro faculty members frequently co-supervise psychology students working
 on experiments that relate to issues of moral psychology. The FHI has worked extensively with
 computer scientists, especially those with an interest in AI, and increasingly with international
 relations experts and bioscientists. Ethics in AI already has and will further develop a wide range
 of interdisciplinary connections.


 Evidence of the unit’s contribution to sustainability of the discipline
 The UoA supports its academic staff in all aspects of intellectual life, and encourages those willing
 to engage in good citizenship. It ensures all opportunities are widely communicated, actively
 considers nominations when circulated (eg AHRC Peer Review College) and senior colleagues
 provide informal mentoring to those willing to make contributions or influence their discipline.

 Members of the faculty have made a significant contribution to the vitality of the discipline via a
 strong track record of service beyond Oxford. For instance, faculty members have held a number
 of key positions on editorial boards of leading journals: Adrian Moore is co-editor of Mind; Joseph
 Schear is editor-in-chief of European Journal of Philosophy; Ursula Coope is co-editor of
 Phronesis; John Hyman was editor of British Journal of Aesthetics (2008-2019); Neil Levy is editor
 of Neuroethics and a consulting editor in Australasian Journal of Philosophy; Dan Zahavi is co-
 editor-in-chief of Phenomenology and Cognitive Sciences and a consulting editor on Theoria;
 Julian Savulescu is editor of Journal of Medical Ethics, the Journal of Practical Ethics and the
 Uehiro Series of Practical Ethics. Lindsay Judson is general editor of the Clarendon Aristotle series
 and the Oxford Aristotle Series. Anil Gomes is reviews editor for Mind, where Bill Child, Volker
 Halbach, Alexander Paseau, and Amia Srinivasan are associate editors. Roger Crisp was
 associate editor of Ethics (2016-18), Paul Elbourne is associate editor of Semantics and
 Pragmatics, and Ofra Magidor associate editor at Ergo. Nick Jones is managing editor at Ergo.
 Alexander Prescott-Crouch is Book Reviews editor at the Journal of Nietzsche Studies. Faculty
 members serve on numerous other editorial boards.


                                                                                               Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 During this REF period, we collectively undertook refereeing for at least 231 journals and for 26
 monograph publishers.

 AHRC Peer Review College: Hilary Greaves and Alexander Paseau are members of the AHRC
 Peer Review College.

 Edward Harcourt is Director of Research at the AHRC.


 Positions in learned societies:
 Adrian Moore was President of the Aristotelian Society (2014-5); Simon Saunders was President
 of the British Society for the Philosophy of Physics (2017-19); Volker Halbach is Vice-President of
 the British Logic Colloquium; Dan Zahavi is President of the Danish National Research
 Foundation: Centre for Subjectivity Research. James Grant is a trustee for the British Society of
 Aesthetics; Edward Harcourt is a committee member of the Royal Institute of Philosophy and a
 board member of the British Society for Ethical Theory; Nick Jones is a member of the Aristotelian
 Society’s Executive Committee.

 During this REF period, our faculty delivered thirty keynote or invited lectures in the UK and
 seventy-two abroad. In addition, we gave 414 research presentations in the UK and 459 overseas.
 We organized sixty-four national and nine international conferences. We externally examined
 sixty-three doctoral theses in the UK and thirty-two internationally. We conducted seventy-nine
 tenure or promotion assessments and reviewed the research of six UK departments.


 Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base

 Honours: John Broome, Harvey Brown, Cécile Fabre, John Hawthorne, Terence Irwin, and
 Timothy Williamson were already Fellows of the British Academy at the start of REF period;
 Susanne Bobzien and Cecilia Trifogli were elected Fellows in 2014, Ian Rumfitt in 2018, and
 Ursula Coope in 2020. Timothy Williamson is also a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, a
 foreign honorary member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and a member of
 Academia Europaea.

 Prizes: Ofra Magidor, Philip Leverhulme Prize (2015); Ian Phillips, Philip Leverhulme Prize (2017);
 Julian Savulescu, AHRC Health Humanities medal (2018) and Daniel W. Wegner theoretical
 innovation prize (2018); Guy Kahane, Daniel W. Wegner theoretical innovation prize (2017); Hilary
 Greaves, British Academy Rising Star Engagement Award (2015); Louise Hanson, paper selected
 philosopher’s Annual (2019), Amia Srinivasan, Mark Sanders Public Philosophy award (2019);
 Martin Pickup, Sanders Prize in Metaphysics (2020).

 Named lectures: Ursula Coope, 2020 Keeling Memorial Lecture, UCL; Edward Harcourt, 2018
 Oakley Fellowship Lectures (William College, MA); Ofra Magidor, 2015 Sainsbury Lecture, King’s
 College London, MIT Annual Joint Linguistics and Philosophy colloquium (scheduled for 2020,
 postponed to 2022 due to COVID-19); Adrian Moore, 2019 Jean-Jacques Rousseau Lecture;
 Volker Halbach, 2017 Berkeley Memorial Lecture (Maynooth); Ian Rumfitt, 2019 E.W. Beth
 Lecture, Amsterdam; Tim Williamson, Nanqiang Lecture, Xiamen University, 2014; Bergmann
 Lecture, University of Iowa, 2015; Beth Lecture, Amsterdam, 2015; The Logic Lecture, University
 of Connecticut, 2016; Kripke Lecture, City University of New York, 2016; Royal Institute of
 Philosophy Annual Lecture, 2016; Wade Memorial Lecture, St Louis University, 2016; Sainsbury


                                                                                            Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Lecture, King’s College London, 2016; Whitehead Lectures, Harvard University, 2017; Casalegno
 Lectures, University of Milan, 2018; Gottlob Frege Lectures, University of Tartu, 2018; Sanders
 Lecture, APA Central Division, Denver, 2019. Ian Rumfitt gave the Beth lecture, Amsterdam, 2019.
 Amia Srinivasan, Harriet and Harman Memorial Lecture, UCL (2020). Roger Crisp, Lindley
 Lecturer, University of Kansas (2018), Simone Weil Lecturer, Australian Catholic University
 (2019).




                                                                                         Page 24
