Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Liverpool


 Unit of Assessment: 19 Politics


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Politics at the University of Liverpool has grown more than five-fold (from 5 staff submitted to
 REF2014 to 27 staff in REF2021). Strategic investment in staff has enabled us to build on existing
 strengths in comparative politics, British and Northern Irish politics, global conflict and peace
 processes, and electoral politics, and expand our research base further into international relations,
 with particular strengths in international slavery.


 One of five Departments within the School of Histories, Languages and Cultures, the Department
 of Politics has created a vibrant and sustainable research environment through the execution of
 an ambitious research and impact strategy focused on diverse and international recruitment,
 income generation, promotion of high-quality outputs, and policy impact. We have fostered
 impactful national and international collaborations within and beyond academia. Meanwhile annual
 research income has grown 74% since the start of the REF2021 period, from £233,491 in 2013-
 14 to £407,197 in 2019-20, and based on the comparable data from REF2014, we have improved
 our annual income per eligible FTE by 35% (from £5,891 to £7,940).


 The research and impact strategy is developed and led by our Research Committee, which
 includes ECR members and works alongside the Research Committees at School (including
 Politics PGR representation), Faculty, and University levels. After REF2014, the Committee
 established three key strategic objectives aimed at improving research capacity:


        a) to expand our research base and enhance internal research support (detailed in
        Section 2);
        b) to grow research income and impact (Section 3); and
        c) to reinforce internal, external, and interdisciplinary collaboration within and beyond
        academia (Section 4).


 This research and impact strategy has allowed us to surpass the goals set out at REF2014 –
 namely, strengthening the dynamism of our research groups, increasing the number of ECRs,
 attracting more research funding, and developing more impact for our research.




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The expansion of our research base has been both quantitative and qualitative. As part of our
 strategy to ensure generational renewal and investment in areas of innovation within the discipline,
 an important part of our recruitment has been focused on ECRs (8 out of 11 newly appointed
 lecturers since 2016). To ensure sustainability of the staff group, we have also supported the
 development of both ECRs and more established staff members to ensure their progression, in
 line with the University policy of support from “cradle to chair” (REF 5a, 3.1.). The success of this
 approach is illustrated by the fact that all current Senior Lecturers were former ECRs/Lecturers,
 developed and promoted internally, in common with two of the current five Professors. Moreover,
 a targeted recruitment policy has meant that the number of female staff in our submission has
 increased from one to six since 2014. We also now have two BAME members of staff and six
 identifying as LGBT+. Further diversification of our staff base at all levels is a serious and
 continuing effort that will be key in future recruitment.


 Growth has also enabled the internationalisation of our Department through the recruitment of
 truly world-leading researchers. This includes an expansion of staff from EU (8 out of 27) and
 overseas backgrounds (3 out of 27), and the internationalisation of our networks of collaborators
 (Zihnioglu’s Carnegie Civic Research Network and EU COST Action – section 4.1.; Hodzi’s China
 Research Network – section 4.3.), research funding opportunities (Gomez’s Spanish Research
 Council grant; Petersohn’s Gerda Henkel Stiftung grant), and international pathways to knowledge
 exchange and impact (Pierson’s policy engagement during the Northern Ireland abortion
 referendum; Bird curating an exhibition on refugee routes for Tate Liverpool). Our new
 appointments and the ongoing development of existing staff have enabled us to expand our
 research expertise, particularly focusing on interdisciplinarity (Bird, Gippert, Pierson) and
 quantitative methods (Bernardi, Epifanio, Gomez, Jeffery, Lees).


 1.1. Enhancement of our research and impact support and growing research income


 Enhancement of our research and impact support and growing research income has been
 implemented through three key policies and support mechanisms:


 First, individual staff members’ research support needs are identified during the twice annual
 research conversations carried out by our Research Lead and followed up by the Department’s
 Research Committee through advice and support, e.g. on accessing internal and external funding.
 Peer support at all stages of research is also provided by the new research clusters that have
 been developed to represent and foster the research strengths and expertise across our
 expanding Department (Section 1.2.).




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Second, the Department takes full advantage of new internal institutional funding programmes
 established during this REF cycle (REF 5a, 2.2.1. & 3.3.2)., including the support for ECRs (Early
 Career/Returners Fund), pump-priming and pilot studies (Overseas Development Assistance
 (ODA) Seed Fund), internationalisation (International Network Fund) and engagement with non-
 academic users (Knowledge Exchange Vouchers) – see 2.1.


 Third, the development and delivery of research projects is supported by the School’s research
 and finance officers, and through protected research time and research leave policy that entitles
 staff to leave every seventh semester, with 15 members of staff taking leave during the current
 REF cycle. This model has proved extremely successful in generating prestigious external
 research income, including awards from the ESRC, AHRC, Leverhulme Trust, and British
 Academy. Based on the comparable data from REF2014 we have improved our annual income
 per eligible FTE by 35% (from £5,891 to £7,940). We have strengthened the support available for
 turning research outputs and findings into impact. Support from the Faculty Research Impact
 Officer, including dedicated impact postdoctoral support, is available for all Politics staff members
 to maximize impact (Section 3.2). This support has contributed to a growing portfolio of emerging
 impact projects.


 1.2. Reinforcing internal, external, and interdisciplinary collaboration within and beyond
 academia


 The UoA’s expansion has helped us to reinforce internal, external, and interdisciplinary
 collaboration within and beyond academia and amplify our research, publication, and impact
 activities. Improved internal collaboration was driven through the strategic review and adaptation
 of our research clusters and research centres: we have developed from a two-cluster and two-
 research centre structure in 2014 to a four-cluster, two-research centre and one-research network
 structure. These peer-to-peer research support mechanisms have been central to fostering
 stronger outputs, higher quality grant applications, improving interdisciplinary collaborations, and
 supporting PGR, PDRA, and ECR members.


 1.2.1. Research Clusters


 The four politics research clusters are: ‘Government, Parties and Elections’, ‘Human Rights and
 Justice’, ‘Peace and Conflict’, and ‘Governance, Policy and Civil Society’. They bring together
 PGRs, PDRAs, and all members of staff. The clusters were designed specifically along thematic
 lines, to: i. include staff from across all areas of Politics; ii. foster interdisciplinary working across
 different areas of Politics; iii. improve methodological and thematic cross-fertilization; and iv.


                                                                                                    Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 engage PGRs – who are an integral part to the clusters – with our research culture. Our clusters
 meet regularly, feed into the departmental research seminars, produce papers which are
 discussed by colleagues prior to journal submission, comment on research ethics and integrity,
 and help us deliver our transformative research to non-academic beneficiaries.


 This brief case study of one of our clusters illustrates how the cluster structure enables research,
 improves output quality, and generates impact:


    •   Government, Parties and Elections. This cluster includes PGR and staff from British
        Politics, Comparative Politics and IR. Review of draft manuscripts within the cluster has
        raised output quality, which has led to published outputs in prestigious journals and
        books in leading academic presses, including Tonge’s book on the Democratic Unionist
        Party (DUP) (winner Political Studies Association of Ireland’s Brian Farrell best book
        2014) and the prestigious “Britain Votes” series (Oxford University Press 2017 and
        2019), co-edited by Tonge and Wilks-Heeg, with Russell contributing. Cluster members
        are making a central contribution to research base and impact. They have presented
        evidence to legislatures in the UK, Ireland, Slovenia, Spain, and to the EU Parliament
        (Gomez, Haughey, Russell, Tonge). Wilks-Heeg is a member of the Electoral
        Commission’s Roundtable on Electoral Integrity. Cluster members have engaged in
        knowledge exchange and partnerships with political parties and their think tanks at the
        local, national and EU level (Gomez, Jeffery, Tonge). Review of funding applications in
        the cluster before submission has enabled major projects and funding success with
        funds from the ESRC (PI: Tonge), AHRC (PI: Wilks-Heeg), Leverhulme Trust (PI:
        Gomez), and the Spanish Ministry for Research and Innovation (PI: Gomez).


 1.2.2. Research Centres and Networks


 Our two research centres, one research network and the Department of Politics’ close
 collaboration with the Institute of Irish Studies embody our strategic commitment to
 interdisciplinary research. Each research centre includes PGRs, PDRAs, and ECRs as well as
 staff from several departments. Interdisciplinary centres and the network are crucial enablers of
 research, internal and external collaborations, events organisation and dissemination
 opportunities, and generate knowledge-exchange and impact.


    -   As a major hub of interdisciplinary research, the Centre for the Study of International
        Slavery (CSIS), brings together staff and PGRs from the Departments of Politics,
        Archaeology, History (where it is based), Sociology, Social Policy and Criminology, and


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        the Management School to produce agenda-setting research and impact about human
        enslavement and its historical and contemporary manifestations. The Centre was co-
        directed by one of our members of staff (Balch) for most of the current REF period (2014
        -2018). Balch now heads the AHRC GCRF-funded Anti-Slavery Research Network, an
        interdisciplinary consortium of three UK universities and academic and non-academic
        partners across West and Central Africa (section 3) which makes a crucial contribution to
        the University strategy of global research and impact (REF 5a, 2.2.1.). CSIS is a core
        partner in the UKRI funded, AHRC-led Policy and Evidence Centre for Modern Slavery
        and Human Rights (£10m total, with 220k to Liverpool), now directed by Balch. Balch and
        tenure-track Derby Fellow, Vaughn, developed agenda-setting new guidance for the UK
        Collaborative on Development Research (UKCDR) on safeguarding in international
        development research. Balch and colleagues’ (2 PDRAs and 1 PGR) impact work with
        the COOP Group’s Bright Future Initiative, which works with victims of modern slavery,
        won the 2018 University of Liverpool Research Impact of the Year Award.


    -   The Europe and the World Centre (EWC) is based within the Department of Politics
        and directed by Harris and draws on research by staff and PGRs from departments
        including History, Irish Studies, and Modern Languages and Cultures. Its crucial
        contribution to debates on diverse ways in which Europe is being refashioned won a
        Contribution to Public Engagement award (Liverpool City Region) during the Brexit
        Referendum campaign in 2016. EWC’s external events and research workshops have
        promoted interdisciplinary collaborations with Law, Sociology, History, Irish Studies, and
        Gender Studies.


    -   The Network for the Interface of Classics and Politics (NICP) is an interdisciplinary
        research group established in October 2018, bringing together colleagues and PGRs
        across Classics and Politics and is co-directed by two of our members of staff (Crines,
        Jeffery). The NICP’s interdisciplinary approach seeks to better understand the
        intersection between the ancient world, modern politics and international studies. It
        organises events and has supported a pending interdisciplinary AHRC networking
        funding application.


 The collaboration between the Department of Politics and the Institute of Irish Studies on Northern
 Ireland in particular has enhanced the vitality of research for both entities. The Institute of Irish
 Studies is a leading centre for the study of Irish politics, history and culture. Shirlow is included in
 the Politics REF submission, as is Haughey, who holds a joint post in the two departments. These
 synergies have enabled major joint research projects such as the ESRC Northern Ireland general
 election studies in 2015, 2017 and 2019 (Tonge PI, Shirlow CI), resulting in major datasets and


                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 publications. A Leverhulme Trust-funded study (Shirlow PI, Tonge CI) of former paramilitaries
 yielded a Manchester University Press book on reintegration of those with conflict-related
 convictions. Another Leverhulme-funded study (Tonge PI) of Northern Ireland’s political parties
 led to a membership study of the DUP, an award-winning Oxford University Press book and
 subsequent surveys of other political parties in Northern Ireland. These initiatives resulted in an
 impact case study by Shirlow and Tonge. These projects each led to the employment of Research
 Assistants, whilst four PGRs were jointly supervised across the Politics Department and the
 Institute between 2014-2020. The Institute of Irish Studies runs a prestigious series of public
 lectures, which have included President of Ireland Michael D. Higgins and former President Mary
 Robinson, and former Taoisigh Enda Kenny and Bertie Ahern.


 Research activity has been supported by our monthly Departmental Research Seminars,
 Research Away days, and a bespoke internal mentoring programme for all staff and PGRs. The
 new structure has facilitated a vibrant and sustained research activity, as demonstrated by the
 volume of research produced. Since 2014, staff included in this submission have authored 15
 books and 134 journal articles.


 Staff conduct research to the highest standards of integrity and ethics. Depending on the level
 of risk, research proposals with human participants are reviewed at the School-level or the Central
 University Research Ethics Committee. Vaughn and Balch’s co-authored UK Collaborative on
 Development Research Guidance on Safeguarding in International Development Research (see
 above) is a major contribution to developing rigorous research ethics in the conducting of
 international research.


 In terms of open data, data created in the course of Research Council-funded projects is
 deposited as required by the funders. Datasets from the three ESRC Northern Ireland general
 election surveys (PI Tonge) and on public attitudes to ‘Votes-at-16’ from Tonge’s Leverhulme Trust
 study of voting age reform, for example, have been deposited with the UK Data Service.
 Department staff upload data to repositories such as Harvard Dataverse, journal repositories, and
 personal websites (e.g. Epifanio’s LeRIT - Legislative Responses to International Terrorism).
 Submitted outputs are in full compliance with REF2021’s open access requirements and we
 exceed current REF requirements on open access, securing £4,020 institutional funding to
 acquire Gold Open Access rights for 6 staff articles and making publications available to a range
 of public and non-academic stakeholders.


 Since 2014, our clusters and research centres have organised 114 events, including conferences,
 research seminars, workshops, public lectures and exhibitions. Our staff research expertise
 generates great media interest, resulting in over 700 media appearances (TV, radio, newspapers


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and online media) over this REF assessment period. We have provided evidence to parliament
 and parliamentary committees in the UK, Ireland, the EU, and several European countries, written
 and presented policy reports, and informed UK and EU policies (Section 3).


 1.3. Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact


 Our strategic aim is to consistently produce research and impact of the highest quality at the level
 of a world leading Politics department. In order to achieve this aim, we are pursuing the following
 goals:


    1. Continue to grow our research base and ensure sustainability and generational balancing
          through a) supporting career development pathways for those considering promotion,
          and b) continuing to attract new, outstanding researchers at all career stages.


    2. Increase the Department’s diversity by building on strategies employed in the 2017 and
          2019 recruitment rounds. Diversity needs to include all protected characteristics, be
          reflected in future recruitment, and be supported by an inclusive approach to career
          development, promotion, and output/research support.


    3. Increase the number of high-quality PGRs and PDRAs, firstly, as a result of becoming a
          more diverse and vital department with a greater range of expertise, and secondly, by
          increasing our portfolio of externally funded studentships and research grants.


    4. Further strengthen our positive trajectory of research funding and the links between
          research income generation and impact by i. supporting staff at all career stages with
          tailored impact advice; ii. increasing collaborations and engagement with a wide variety
          of audiences and practitioners; and iii. using seed corn funding to pilot research ideas
          with a view to leveraging ambitious external grant income.




 2. People

 To ensure the sustainability of the expansion of the Department’s research base, we have
 strategically invested in the diversification and internationalisation of our academic staff and PGR
 students. Since 2014, the Department has attracted highly qualified female staff (8 appointments),
 ECRs (8 appointments), and international staff (11 appointments), contributing to a vibrant,
 inclusive, and diverse research environment in line with our first strategic objective after REF2014,
 namely expanding our research base and enhancing internal research support (section 1).

                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 2.1. Staffing Strategy and Staff Development


 The number of staff submitted to REF2021 has grown more than fivefold since REF2014 to a
 medium-sized department of 26 permanent members of staff plus Shirlow from Irish Studies, in
 addition to 5 PDRAs, and 14 current PGRs in 2020. In line with our first strategic objective of
 extending our research base (section 1), Politics has added considerable expertise since 2014
 in the fields of comparative politics and policy (Baumann, Epifanio, Zihnioglu), political theory (Bird,
 Martin), gender and politics (Epifanio, Pierson), conflict and peace processes (Gippert, Hodzi,
 Lees, Mathieu), electoral behaviour, public opinion and parties (Bernardi, Gomez, Haughey,
 Jeffery, Russell), and political discourse (Crines). As noted in Section 1.1, we have also adjusted
 our research clusters to build on areas of existing strengths and new growth areas.


 The Department’s recruitment and staffing strategy has focused on three elements: First,
 generational renewal and supporting our future leadership base by appointing outstanding
 ECRs, as evidenced by their strong record in publication, funding success, and groundwork for
 future impact case studies. All our new ECRs were hired on permanent lectureships to ensure
 retention and job security. They have come from diverse British, European, and overseas research
 institutions, have held prestigious national and international post-docs (Baumann, Bernardi,
 Pierson, Gippert, Hodzi), have won external research funding since starting at Liverpool (Section
 3) and have revitalised our research environment, expertise, and pathways to knowledge-
 exchange and impact. Examples of the latter include Pierson’s briefing of the British-Irish
 Parliamentary Assembly on abortion and reproductive rights in 2019, Bird’s work with the
 European Commission on the refugee crisis, Gippert’s evidence base underlying the official review
 of UK Official Development Aid spending through the Conflict, Stability and Security Fund in 2018,
 and Hodzi’s co-authored report on African connectivity for the Finnish Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
 ECRs and other new recruits are being supported in their research through internal funding,
 mentoring, advice of the research lead and Research Committee, and the vibrant research
 environment of the research clusters and centres (Section 1).


 Second, diversification of our departmental staff has included strategic appointments of female,
 ECR, EU, and international scholars. Strategic diversification, while ensuring excellence in
 scholarship, was the focus of the 2017 and 2019 recruitment rounds. This was achieved by
 advertising roles in subfields predominantly researched by women and international scholars.
 Recruitment panels for both rounds included a sizeable proportion of women and ECRs. The
 success of these policies led to the recruitment of 6 women for the 8 advertised roles in 2017, and
 in 2019 when all 4 new appointees were international (2 EU and 2 overseas). With regard to



                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 generational renewal, 10 of 13 newly appointed staff in the 2017 and 2019 recruitment rounds
 were ECRs (2 have since left the Department).


 Third, the internationalisation of the departmental staff has succeeded, as in 2020 nearly half
 the department (11 out of 26) are EU or overseas citizens (including dual citizens), two of them
 self-identifying as having a BAME background.


 The staffing strategy has also included attracting PDRAs on competitive and prestigious grants,
 providing additional expertise for PGRs, and facilitating new collaborative research. Examples
 include: Dr Lennon Mhishi (on Balch’s AHRC-funded Anti-Slavery Knowledge Network project);
 Dr Linnea Renton (on Balch’s AHRC safeguarding project), Dr Charla Waeiss (on Gomez’s
 consultancy project on ‘Social Bases of Support for Radical Left Parties in Europe’), and Dr Tom
 Loughran (on Tonge’s Leverhulme Trust funded project on voting age reform). Dr Leona Vaughn,
 progressed from a postdoctoral position on Balch’s British Academy project to join the Department
 permanently through a Derby Tenure Track Fellowship, part of a new programme of Early Career
 Fellowships (REF 5a, 3.3.2).


 The staff development strategy is aimed at achieving our first strategic objective for the next
 REF cycle, continuing to grow our research base and ensure sustainability and generational
 balancing, our second strategic objective of increasing the Department’s diversity, and the third
 strategic objective of increasing the number of high-quality PGRs and PDRAs (Section 1.3.).


 The measure of our success will be, firstly, future growth in the number of staff submitted to the
 next REF; secondly, internal promotion and development as a pathway for our diverse cohort of
 recent staff recruits to achieve greater diversity among all staff, and especially senior staff, in terms
 of gender and ethnicity; and finally, an increase in the number of PDRAs and PGRs based in the
 Department. We seek to achieve this last aim primarily through continued expansion of research
 grant income (section 3.1.).


 We pursue the staff development strategy through research support and mentoring, training, and
 funding. This particularly pertains to ECR, PDRA and PGR development. Staff development into
 more senior roles is key to the Department’s sustainability. In this REF cycle, 6 new Lecturers
 have been promoted to Senior Lecturer (Baumann, Bird, Crines, Gippert, Gomez, Petersohn),
 raising the number of female senior staff from 1 to 3 – an area of continuing attention for our unit.
 Also, one Senior Lecturer was promoted to Reader (Wilks-Heeg) and two Senior Lecturers were
 promoted to Professor (Balch and Dolowitz).




                                                                                                   Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff development is facilitated through staff mentoring, the annual Professional Development
 Review, staff development through the University’s Academy (e.g. Postgraduate Certificate
 Academic Practice), the School-level staff development fund, and study leave every seventh
 semester.


 Research mentoring is an innovative, two-way system in which staff, PDRAs and PGRs act as
 mentors and mentees at the same time. This system runs through the research clusters to ensure
 thematic cohesion and encourage diverse input. This mentoring ranges from general research
 and career advice to peer-review for publications or funding bids; mentoring also acts as an
 incubator for new (collaborative) research ideas. ECRs benefit from the Faculty ECR Forum, which
 organises dedicated events, and the University’s Researcher Staff Association. Twice yearly
 research meetings between individual staff and the departmental research lead support strategic
 research choices, providing a forum for advice on external funding, where to publish, and how to
 develop impact. Strategic grant applications are also supported through advice from School-level
 research champions for individual schemes, many of whom are based in Politics: Balch (AHRC),
 Tonge (ESRC), Zihnioglu (British Academy and EU), Baumann (Leverhulme) and School, Faculty
 and University level peer review for large grants.


 Staff Research Allowances, which support field work, data collection and dissemination have
 doubled to £1,000 per annum since 2014, with a commitment to further gradual increases. Further
 support is available on application from a School-level Discretionary Fund. Colleagues have
 benefitted from the internal University level seed corn and pump-priming schemes referred to in
 section 1.1: e.g. the Early Career/Returners Fund (won by Baumann, Bird, Haughey), pilot studies
 (ODA Seed Fund – won by Balch), internationalisation (International Network Fund – won by
 Pierson), engagement with non-academic users (Knowledge Exchange Vouchers – won by
 Balch), and Interdisciplinary Fund (won by Gavin). Balch’s successful £2.1 million AHRC Network
 Plus grant (Anti-Slavery Network) was developed on the basis of internal ODA Seed Funding.


 The success of our ongoing departmental support policy for ECRs is reflected in how during the
 current REF period ECRs have secured funding from the ESRC (Gippert, £681,315 total),
 Leverhulme Trust (Baumann, £75,000), and GCRF (Pierson, £38,000) (Section 3), have engaged
 with policy-makers in Whitehall, Brussels, and internationally (Haughey, Pierson, Bird, Baumann,
 Gippert), and with a range of audiences beyond academia (Bird, Gippert, Pierson). The
 Department is also investing in the development of current and future impact case studies by
 female ECR staff (Pierson, Gippert, Bird, Epifanio) for the Department’s next REF submission.
 This support includes tailored advice in collecting evidence, feedback and review processes to
 strengthen the narrative, and funding through the School-level Impact Fund. ECRs are
 represented on all major departmental committees and have taken on key departmental roles


                                                                                         Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 including academic leads for admissions (Bird), REF environment and research (Gippert),
 employability (Jeffery), and internationalisation (Pierson).


 2.2. Research Students


 PGR students are an integral part of our research environment. They are supported and guided
 in a tailored, progress-oriented supervision programme and have been successful in obtaining
 prestigious, competitive scholarships. Our PGRs form a diverse and vibrant community, with 9 of
 14 of the current 2019/20 cohort being female, 7 from the EU and 4 from overseas. To support
 mutual professional development and learning processes, 5 current PGRs are co-supervised by
 ECRs in 2019/20, which is part of ECR development. Since 2014, Politics colleagues have
 supervised 30 PGR students and supported over 16 PhD completions, an increase of 29% since
 REF 2014 (average doctoral completions per annum rose from 2.4 to 3.3), with several pursuing
 full-time academic positions, including Caroline Gray (Aston), Anthony Williams (Manchester
 Metropolitan) and Sean Haughey as a full-time permanent lecturer at the University of Liverpool.
 Several former PGRs have published monographs with leading university and commercial presses
 (e.g. Gray, Whiting).


 Increasing the number of PGRs is our third strategic goal for the next REF period (Section 1.3).
 We aim to achieve it through expansion of MA provision, increased funding and the broadening of
 expertise that comes with the increase in research-active staff. Our outstanding PGRs are
 recruited on a competitive basis, and many are supported financially through a variety of
 prestigious national and international scholarships, including the ESRC (4), John Lennon
 Scholarships (3), Gerda Henkel Foundation (2), Joseph Rotblat Scholarship (1), and Sultanate of
 Oman’s Embassy (2), in addition to internal scholarships offered by the Department (4).


 Our PGRs are fully integrated into our research culture. They present their research at the formal
 departmental research seminars and informal research cluster seminars. In addition to being
 active members of our research clusters, PGRs provide formal input into Department and School
 policy through PGR representatives and a School Staff-Student Liaison Committee, which meets
 three times a year. They participate in the Politics-based research centres/network and have used
 available funding to organise their own research events, including the 2017 PGR Conference
 "Ideas to Impact: Postgraduates Against Slavery" (Woods), financed by the CSIS and attended by
 30 internal and external PGR and ECRs. The resulting papers were published as a special issue.
 Similarly, Haughey’s Evolution of Devolution in Northern Ireland 1998-2018 conference (2018)
 was funded by the EWC and brought together networks of national and international scholars and
 PGRs.



                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Training and development support for PGRs is provided by the Department through the core
 training module Research Methods in Politics and, since 2019, through a tailor-made annual PGR-
 organised methods workshop series. In 2019/2020 this was funded by the University-level
 competitive Methodological Innovation and Development Award Scheme (MIDAS) applied for and
 won by PGRs Gottwick and Kellgren-Parker. This innovative and PGR-led workshop-series
 addresses specific methods required by PGRs. These departmental development programmes
 are complemented by the methods and skills sessions of the Liverpool Doctoral College, The
 Academy, and engage@Liverpool, with the Department supporting PGRs to become HEA
 Associate Fellows following an internal training programme (REF 5a, 3.5). The Department
 organises monthly career development seminars on issues such as publishing in peer reviewed
 journals or non-academic careers. Further training and career development opportunities will arise
 from the University’s new partnership status with the ESRC-funded National Centre for Research
 Methods.


 Our PGRs are also supported and encouraged to turn academic work into knowledge-exchange
 and impact. The success of this approach shows in knowledge-exchange with policy-makers such
 as Porat who worked for the Cyprus Office of the German Friedrich Ebert Stiftung and Haughey
 who worked with the Northern Ireland Assembly. Haughey’s research on the hours worked on
 constituency service by Northern Ireland Assembly members was cited in the Reaney Report
 (2017), which guided the Secretary of State on the extent to which their salaries should be
 reduced. PGRs also write for the national press, for instance Daniels in The Independent on the
 1980s miners’ strike.


 Case study: PGR development through the project on private military-security companies
 (PSMCs): Petersohn’s project on PMSCs, funded by the German Gerda Henkel Foundation, is
 one of the leading examples of PGR inclusion and development in the Department. Petersohn
 strategically recruited three outstanding female PGRs to counter the prevailing male-dominated
 trend in the field of security studies (Gottwick, Penel, Kellgren-Parker). Supported also by the
 School, the project provided funding for these three PGRs to attend the 2019 International Studies
 Association Conference in Toronto. The PGRs presented their papers first in our departmental
 research seminar series. Methodological development needs which were flagged up during these
 presentations were addressed by School-funded attendance of the European Consortium for
 Political Research (ECPR) Methods Summer School in Bamberg, Germany. Petersohn is now co-
 authoring journal articles with each PGR, two of which have so far been submitted to leading
 internationally peer reviewed disciplinary journals.




                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.3. Equality and Diversity


 Politics is strongly committed to increasing equality for all staff regardless of position or
 background, and actively supports diversity and inclusivity through policies, recruitment, and
 staff development. This includes PGRs/PDRAs and ECR members of staff. Politics is proud to be
 represented at the School’s Equality and Diversity Committee by three members of staff (Epifanio,
 Gomez, Pierson) and to have held its deputy directorship (Epifanio, 2017-2019). These members
 of staff oversee and report on the implementation of the School Action Plan (which underpins our
 Athena SWAN Bronze award) in the Department of Politics. Early progress in the Department of
 this ongoing process includes the 100% completion rates of Equality and Diversity (E&D) online
 training modules by Politics staff.


 The diversity of the Department of Politics’ demographics and research foci has driven the
 organisation of public events with relevant E&D content such as Wilks-Heeg’s public lecture
 panel for International Women’s Day 2017, Tonge’s special Northern Ireland post-2017 election
 conference on implications for minority groups, and Pierson’s organisation of social media activity
 during the Northern Irish abortion referendum.


 The implementation of E&D policies in the Department includes the actions emerging from the
 School Action Plan (see above) and targeted action to represent the research of PGRs, ECRs,
 international, and female staff in our research seminar series; and scheduling of research events
 during core working hours (10am-4pm) to enable attendance by staff with caring responsibilities
 (including staff and PGRs who returned from parental leave). Staff with young children and caring
 responsibilities are supported in working remotely, having their teaching scheduled during core
 working hours (10am-4pm), and they receive support from the School’s Family Friendly Advisors.
 Staff members can draw on a range of networks for additional support, including networks for
 parents and carers, ECRs, women, disabled, BAME, and LGBT staff (REF 5a, 3.2)




 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Our annual research income has grown by 74% since the start of the REF2021 period (from
 £233,491 in 2013-14 to £407,197 in 2019-20). Success rates have been high, with 47% of PI-led
 applications succeeding between August 2013 and July 2020. Awards have been received from
 a broad range of prestigious and competitive national and international funders. These include UK
 and international research councils (AHRC, ESRC, British Council, Spanish Research Council,
 Irish Research Council), charities (Leverhulme Trust, British Academy), and national and



                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 international foundations (Gerda Henkel Foundation, Mercator Foundation (Germany), Carnegie
 Foundation, Joseph Rowntree Foundation).


 Our grant capture is becoming more diverse: while all grants awarded in 2014 were won by male
 staff, by 2020 a third of all grants had been secured by women. Our Equality and Diversity policies
 are designed to increase this grant capture further (section 2.3.). In line with our second strategic
 objective (b) (Section 1), increased research income has also translated into increased research
 impact. Our fourth strategic aim for the next 5-7 years is to strengthen the link between research
 and impact (section 1.3.). Success will be measured by the breadth of impact case studies we will
 consider for inclusion in the next REF.


 3.1. Research Income and Consultancy


 We are particularly proud of the funding successes of new appointees and ECRs, with ongoing
 projects bridging the current and the next REF periods. Petersohn’s two Gerda Henkel Foundation
 grants (£131,097 and £17,618) permitted the investigation of the Impact of Mercenaries and
 Private Military-Security Companies on Civil War Dynamics and generated a new dataset to be
 made publicly available in February 2021, and four journal articles submitted and one published.
 The findings of the research were presented to the Canadian government and the Montreux Forum
 of the International Committee of the Red Cross – material for a potential REF 2028 impact case
 study. This project also created two PGR positions (both women appointees) and supported a
 third associated female PGR (section 2). Pierson is Co-investigator for a Department for the
 Economy Northern Ireland grant with Ulster University (£38,000) as a seed corn grant for an
 interdisciplinary collaborative project proposal to the Medical Research Council for £830,000 to
 explore Young Girls’ and Women’s Reproductive Health with interdisciplinary (medical) partners
 in Northern Ireland, South Africa, the Philippines and a Global South-led transnational feminist
 charity Realising Sexual and Reproductive Justice (RESURJ). The ESRC standard grant
 Democratization and UN Peacebuilding on which Gippert is a Co-Investigator (£681,315 total),
 analyses how UN peacebuilding operations inadvertently enable authoritarian behaviour by the
 host state. Baumann’s Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellowship on Capital and the Arab Spring
 (£75,000) provided insights into relations between Middle East business and politics and has so
 far resulted in three journal articles.


 Politics’ senior members of staff have retained and improved upon their excellent record for
 attracting external funding, including large, agenda-setting grants and consortia. These include
 Tonge’s ESRC funding for the 2015, 2017 and 2019 Northern Ireland General Election Surveys,
 leading a team also based at the LSE, Leeds and Aberdeen. Outputs so far include books
 published by Oxford University Press, evidence presented to the European Parliament, select

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 committees of the House of Commons and Lords, Senead and Dail Éireann, and resulting in one
 of our selected REF2021 impact case studies. In 2018, Tonge also won a Leverhulme Trust grant
 of £119,980 to investigate the Historical and Contemporary Debates on Lowering the Voting Age,
 which included a 2-year PDRA position. Northern Ireland remains a strong area focus for our work,
 and interdisciplinary collaboration with the Institute of Irish Studies (section 1.2.) led to award
 success, such as Shirlow’s AHRC grant on Arts-based reconciliation (£574,000).


 Balch’s interdisciplinary and agenda-setting anti-slavery work in Britain and sub-Saharan Africa
 has won a number of prestigious awards (British Academy - £200,000; British Council – £24,957;
 Joseph Rowntree Foundation – £9,046; Department of State’s Office to Monitor and Combat
 Trafficking in Persons (USA) – £185,409), but most notably as noted in section 1.1, an AHRC
 GCRF Network Plus grant of £2.1 million for the establishment of the Anti-Slavery Research
 Network. This is an interdisciplinary consortium of three leading UK universities (Liverpool as lead,
 Hull, and Nottingham), antislavery NGOs, and academic and non-academic partners across West
 and Central Africa. These projects have benefitted from and contributed to the collaborative
 research infrastructure provided by CSIS and has included also supported PGRs and PDRAs
 throughout. Outputs are ongoing for several of these grants, but so far include a 2019 monograph
 published by Bristol University Press, journal articles, policy reports, and one of our selected
 REF2021 impact case studies.


 Our income success is a result of three inter-related mechanisms: targeted support, diversification,
 and grant re-development. First, targeted support for research income generation is provided via
 three avenues: twice-annual individual research conversations between staff and the
 departmental research lead, regular cooperation and support through the four research clusters
 in which staff are supported and advised by their colleagues, and Institutional Research
 Champions (Section 2.1.).


 Second, diversification of resource income includes funding from both international and non-
 traditional funding bodies. Diversification of funding sources has been spear-headed by Gomez
 (Spanish Ministry for Economy and Competition), Petersohn (Gerda Henkel Foundation), and
 Zihnioglu (German Mercator Foundation) and is continuing to open doors to new and under-used
 funding sources as well as fostering international collaboration and networks.


 Third, grant re-development is an important aspect of increasingly competitive external funding
 applications. Several formerly unsuccessful research grants have been re-developed and re-
 purposed using internal peer-review mechanisms and resulted in successful applications for
 prestigious research income. This includes Petersohn’s two Gerda Henkel Foundation grants



                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mentioned above, re-developed from an unsuccessful ESRC application, and Gomez’ Leverhulme
 Fellowship (£53,554), which was re-purposed from an initially unsuccessful application.


 Our work with industry, policymakers, NGOs/charities, government and political parties shows the
 intimate connection between cutting-edge research and consultancy, often raising further
 research support income and providing another avenue of impact beyond academia. Based on
 his ongoing research and supported by the university’s Consultancy team, Balch has engaged in
 consultancy work for the Sheffield-based charity, City Hearts, who provides support to victims of
 modern slavery. He and Vaughn cooperated on a UKCDR safeguarding project (section 1.2.).
 Other innovative consultancy projects include Gomez’s Social Bases of Support for Radical Left
 Parties in Europe, funded by the European Left Party’s think tank transform! europe in 2019, which
 also engaged a PDRA. Gavin compiled a review of research for the Department of Energy and
 Climate Change in 2015. Baumann’s consultancy work for the German Friedrich Ebert Stiftung on
 land and property rights in Syria, Iraq and Libya in 2019 highlights the potential for international
 consultancy work, as does Petersohn’s work for the Canadian Military College on Private and
 Military Companies in 2018/19. In total, consultancy work and professional services have
 contributed £51,174.68 worth of income for the Department.


 Many departmental consultancy projects and knowledge exchange activities are resulting in
 important political, economic, and social impact. Many of the projects below are still in progress,
 particularly those by new staff and ECRs hired since 2017 and will form part of our impact case
 studies for the next REF. Balch’s engagement with the Coop Group’s Bright Futures Initiative has
 reviewed and supported the Initiative’s aim of providing work placement and non-competitive
 interviews to victims of modern slavery to facilitate their entry into regular employment. It won the
 2018 University of Liverpool Research Impact of the Year award. The PGR and 3 PDRAs
 associated with and funded by this project were fully involved with both the research and
 consultancy work and co-winners of the award.


 Ongoing impact activities, especially by our female members of staff, demonstrate that impact
 activities are constantly expanding and reaching new beneficiaries. Gippert and her colleagues in
 an ESRC-funded research project on Democratization and UN Peacebuilding are working closely
 with the UN Training Office, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, and the Swedish Folke
 Bernadotte Academy to turn the findings into policy-lessons embedded in future UN and national
 peacekeeper training schedules. Bird’s collaborative project, Refugee Journeys through the
 Western Balkans, which formed the basis of a public facing Tate Exchange event at Tate
 Liverpool, was designed as a mixture of photographic exhibition, interactive engagement with the
 stories of refugees through narratives and presentations, and public engagement with the tensions
 between borders and humanitarian emergency through the making of a quilt in the shape of the


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Balkan Route. This project forms part of Bird’s ongoing work with the House of Commons and the
 EU on the refugee crisis and is the basis of an emerging impact case study. Epifanio’s
 collaborative work on maternity policies across the UK Higher Education Sector investigates
 whether differing impact on female academics’ careers and promotion is due to divergent
 maternity leave and support policies across 165 higher education institutions. The team from
 Liverpool and Warwick are collaborating with the UK Department for Business, Energy and
 Industrial Strategy, HR directors, and Athena SWAN Committees across higher education
 institutions to turn their findings into policy change.


 3.2. Infrastructure and Facilities


 Research support infrastructure is organised at School- and Faculty-level and includes
 dedicated research and finance teams who review and advise on external funding above £10,000,
 the central research support office, and the events and marketing team, who support public
 engagement and dissemination. The vibrancy of our research environment is also fostered by the
 structures and financial support available through our two interdisciplinary research centres –
 EWC, CSIS - and Network for the Interface of Classics and Politics (Section 1.2). This
 infrastructure provides individual support for current and potential future impact cases, impact
 event support for PGRs and ECRs, and advice on how knowledge-exchange activities and
 dissemination can turn into longer-term impact.


 Politics’ physical research environment has benefitted from the complete renovation of its space
 in 1-14 Abercromby Square with the total value of £2.2 million, of which approximately £500,000
 went to facilities dedicated to the Department. This renovation includes new staff offices, PGR
 suites, a School common room, and a new media suite for TV interviews, facilitating public
 engagement and impact. Politics staff regularly use the new media suite. For instance, Tonge
 made use of the suite to provide ongoing commentary for British and international news outlets on
 the Northern Irish border issue and Jeffery was able to use the facility to comment on the
 Conservative leadership election. Balch’s film/documentary “Clothes, Chocolate, Children:
 Realising the Transparency Dividend” was narrated and voiced over in the media suite and
 represented one of the outputs from his British Academy grant.


 New equality and diversity infrastructure for staff include the appointment of School-level Family
 Friendly Advisors, a Gender Equality Officer, gender neutral facilities, and a milk-expression room.




                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The expansion of the Department of Politics has included developing and growing national,
 international, and interdisciplinary academic and user collaborations, linked to prestigious outputs
 and impact. Achieving our objective set in 2014 (c), we have reinforced internal, external and
 interdisciplinary collaboration within and beyond academia (Section 1). In line with the
 Department’s staff development strategy, these collaborations and contributions to the research
 base and wider society have been achieved by ECRs, especially female ECRs, and international
 members of staff, as well as by our senior members of staff. Our fourth strategic aim for the coming
 REF period includes further increasing collaborations and engagement with wider audiences and
 practitioners, not least by strengthening links between research income generation and impact
 (Section 1.3.). The measure of our success will be the extent to which we expand collaborations
 and networks, and how we create synergies between research, impact and income generation.


 4.1 Collaborations – national, international, interdisciplinary


 Collaborations are fostered through our research and impact strategy by highlighting avenues for
 cooperation, providing internal (seed corn) funding for internationalisation and collaborative grant
 proposals, and by supporting and funding research events for networking and realising future
 research synergies. Examples of prestigious national collaborations include the CSIS’ and
 Balch’s core role in the new Policy and Evidence Centre for Modern Slavery and Human Rights
 which is a collaboration with the Bingham Centre for the Rule of Law, the University of Nottingham,
 the University of Oxford and the Alan Turing Institute (Section 1.2.2.). It also works in partnership
 with Liverpool’s International Slavery Museum (ISM). Another example is Harris’ interdisciplinary
 research collaboration with colleagues from Liverpool’s Department of Communication and Media
 on Rethinking Memory, Justice and Truth in Latin America and the Western Balkans, financed by
 the ODA Research Seed Fund, and which has resulted in a workshop with museum curators, the
 media and a reconciliation NGO from Sarajevo. It created crucial interconnections between
 cutting-edge academic research and engagement with non-academic audiences and
 beneficiaries.


 At the same time, our ECRs are also engaging with current and ongoing topics, showcasing the
 timeliness of our work. Mathieu’s collaboration with colleagues from Sheffield and Leeds
 addresses the concept of the responsibility to protect in the American discourse on the Syria civil
 war. Gippert collaborates with Squatrito (LSE, formerly Liverpool) on the EU’s rationale for setting
 up a new hybrid court for war crimes in Kosovo. Epifanio collaborates with colleagues from
 Warwick University on her work on female academics’ careers, promising future impact (Section
 3.1.).

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Beyond the borders of the UK, our staff engage in cutting-edge international collaboration.
 Zihnioglu is a member of the EU COST Action (EU Cooperation in Science and Technology)
 Reappraising Intellectual Debates on Civic Rights and Democracy in Europe. This network of
 scientists from 32 countries runs from 2017 to 2021 (funded by Horizon 2020) and supports
 research collaboration across Europe. Gomez cooperates with colleagues from Spain, France and
 Belgium in two projects funded by the European Left Party’s think tank transform! europe.
 Instances of continued international engagement and collaborations by senior staff include
 Dolowitz’s cooperation with colleagues from the University of Strasbourg on the role of micro-
 processes within Economic Intergovernmental Organisations, funded through €20,000 from the
 French Institut de la Gestion Publique et du Développement Economique (IGPDE) and supported
 by a University of Liverpool School-level grant of £1,000. This grant has led to a new network
 involving academics from France, the UK, Germany, Brazil, and Turkey, a three-day workshop,
 and the publication of a policy report.


 Other examples of research conducted at Liverpool which directly engage users beyond academia
 includes Jeffery’s work with the Conservative Party in Sunderland, Gomez’ collaboration with The
 Guardian’s populism project, and Petersohn’s contribution to the International Committee of the
 Red Cross (ICRC) and the Montreux Forum hosted by the Geneva Centre for Security Sector
 Governance (DCAF) on the legal obligations and practices of private military and security
 companies during armed conflict. All these collaborations have helped to expand our
 dissemination and knowledge-exchange activities in line with our research and impact strategy
 and are the seeds for future impact.


 4.2. Collaborations with non-academic partners and engaging diverse audiences


 An important aspect of the vitality of our research is our engagement with non-academic partners,
 and diverse audiences for impact and knowledge-exchange. These audiences range from political
 parties and civil society organisations, to individuals such as British and European citizens
 involved in the Brexit referendum, activists assisting victims of modern slavery, refugees, and
 museum visitors (e.g. Bird’s work with Tate Exchange and Balch’s collaborative activities with ISM,
 Section 3.1 and 4.1 respectively). Zihnioglu is a member of the Carnegie Civic Research Network
 which brings together academics, activists and other leading civil society experts on civic activism
 and civil society from 11 countries. Her contributions to the network have included presentations
 to EU institutions, the UK Department for International Development and others. Gippert and her
 colleagues are working closely with the UN and European External Action Service to share and
 embed in policy the findings of their research on autocracy-enabling by UN post-conflict
 peacekeeping. Tonge contributed to the BBC Explainer Series on the Northern Ireland troubles,

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 by fact checking and script writing to ensure an accurate depiction of the conflict. Mathieu has
 collaborated with the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office on a project that examines
 perceptions of the UK’s role in the world by non-EU countries, this included interviews, briefings,
 and workshops. As a fellow of the Carnegie-funded Sectarianism, Proxies and De-sectarianisation
 initiative based at the University of Lancaster, Baumann advised Members of Parliament on the
 Iranian-Saudi rivalry in Lebanon. These examples showcase the vital reach of our research
 beyond academia.


 Pierson’s interdisciplinary work with Doctors for Choice – a group of clinicians from the UK working
 towards decriminalising abortion – exemplify her knowledge-exchange and partnership work
 beyond our discipline. Her knowledge-exchange activities have further included research events
 with trade union UNITE in Dublin, and contributions to the 209 Women Exhibition guide for the
 Open Eye Gallery in Liverpool, showing how our research often has simultaneous international
 and local impact. Harris is a member of the Brexit Policy Panel of the ESRC-funded initiative UK
 in a Changing Europe, a forum for high-quality and non-partisan analysis and information on the
 UK and its relationship to the EU. On behalf of UK in a Changing Europe, Harris organised and
 chaired a public meeting at the Liverpool City Library attended by UK and European citizens to
 discuss British and Local Perspectives on the European Referendum. Several members of staff
 collaborate with government and political parties for their research. Examples include Haughey’s
 presentation to the Houses of the Oireachtas and written evidence to the House of Commons
 Northern Ireland Affairs Committee, Tonge’s work with the Democratic Unionist Party, the Ulster
 Unionist Party, and Alliance Party on membership surveys, and Jeffery’s work with the
 Conservative party.


 4.3. Networks, Partnerships and Contributions


 Pre-existing local and international partnerships and networks have been complemented by those
 brought by new members of the Department including our ECRs (Section 1). Supporting and
 building on such partnerships and networks is part of our research and impact strategy to ensure
 the sustainability of such vital outward facing work.


 Hodzi is a board member of the Chinese in Africa/Africans in China Research Network, an
 independent platform integrating researchers and practitioners on Africa-China relations. This
 network supports and provides an outlet for his research on non-western interventions and the
 political and financial ties between China and Africa. This network has supported several co-
 authored journal articles.




                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Pierson’s work on women’s reproductive health and abortion rights is supported and inspired by
 her work with, and board membership of, Alliance for Choice – a network of individuals and
 organisations who support women in Northern Ireland with advice, contacts, and a voice in all
 aspects of abortion. Alliance for Choice has provided a collaboration platform for Pierson’s
 research and they are a partner in her Medical Research Council grant application (Section 3.1.),
 as well as a knowledge-exchange partner for her policy engagement during the Northern Ireland
 abortion referendum, from which she is developing a future impact case study.


 Balch’s Anti-Slavery Knowledge Network (section 3.1.) collaborates not only with UK universities
 and Liverpool’s International Slavery Museum but also the University of Ghana, highlighting its
 focus on international and interdisciplinary collaboration to address the challenge of slavery and
 to develop community-led anti-slavery work.


 Many of our staff contribute to the research base in various ways to improve ongoing research,
 foster and fund future research, and also make wider political, economic, and social
 contributions within and beyond the UK.


 Department staff assume leadership roles in major Political Science associations and the
 discipline, e.g. Tonge is serving a second term on the HEFCE REF Politics sub-panel. He was
 President of the British Politics Group of the American Political Science Association 2016-18.
 Gomez is a collaborator on the Guardian’s Populism project. Crines serves on the Executive of
 the Political Science Association (PSA) Conservative and Conservatism group. Supporting future
 international research, Harris is a member of the Evaluation Board for Social Sciences,
 Humanities, Arts and Culture – the Research and Funding Programme of the Slovak Academy of
 Sciences – co-funded by the European Commission’s Marie Sklodowska-Curie Actions-COFUND.
 Tonge is a board member of the Northern Ireland Access to Research Knowledge, Wilks-Heeg
 reviews grants for the Carnegie Trust, while Gomez acts as reviewer for the Spanish Research
 Council (CSIC) grants and Catalan Research Council grants. In the UK, members of staff have
 acted as grant reviewers for the ESRC, British Academy, Leverhulme Trust (Balch, Gomez, Harris,
 Tonge). Staff members also regularly review for prestigious journals, academic and commercial
 publishers. This includes being active as journal or book series editors or membership on editorial
 boards of international and top-ranking journals such as Parliamentary Affairs (UK, Tonge),
 Filozofia (Slovakia, Harris), Uluslararası İlişkiler (Turkey, Zihnioglu).


 Our staff make regular contributions to political, economic, and social development in the form of
 knowledge-exchange, giving written and oral evidence, and networking events. This includes
 Dolowitz’ work on the Advisory Board of Commonwealth Partnership for Technology Management,
 which is a network that advises heads of state on the use of Science and Technology for


                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 developing economies. Similarly, Gavin’s work on climate change has fed into the UK Centre for
 Alternative Technology’s 2016 report into Zero Carbon Britain. Russell’s collaborative research on
 Roma communities in Central Europe produced evidence presented to the Slovenian parliament.
 Contributions also include Pierson’s work on abortion and women’s reproductive rights in Northern
 Ireland and Bird’s research and engagement on refugees in the EU, providing training to NGOs in
 Greece, and presenting a report on the conditions facing refugees in South East Europe to UK
 MPs in 2019. Many of our staff give evidence to Parliament or parliamentary committees in the
 UK and abroad (Balch, Haughey, Wilks-Heeg, Russell, Tonge), presenting research findings to
 MPs and MEPs (Pierson, Bird, Baumann, Tonge), or impacting policy and legislative
 developments through their research. The Department is also an attractive destination for
 international scholars seeking to make an impact in the UK, hosting Fulbright Fellow Professor
 Vivian Price from California State University for research on anti-fracking activism.


 In line with our fourth strategic goal for the period after 2021 and on the basis of our current
 trajectory, we confidently expect our widening collaborations to expand the scope and range of
 our contribution to policy formation and transformation of academic and public understandings of
 key pressing political and social issues in the UK and internationally.


 With a much-enhanced research base and clear strategies and objectives, Politics at Liverpool
 has enhanced its position as a serious contributor to the discipline in the UK and supports a thriving
 and diverse community of scholars, with enormous future potential.




                                                                                               Page 22
