Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Southampton (UoS)

 Unit of Assessment: 01 Clinical Medicine

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context
 The Faculty of Medicine will celebrate its 50th Anniversary in 2022 having made a substantial
 impact on medical practice across areas of research strength in basic discovery and
 translational science. Our vision is to lead innovative learning and discovery for better health
 across the life course; we have invested in multidisciplinary research teams, creative
 educational programmes, translational research programmes, clinical infrastructure, and
 enterprise to deliver this vision.
 The Faculty employs 412 academic staff including 94 professors, 74 associate professors and
 37 Lecturers, of whom 125 are clinical academics. Annual research income is currently
 £30.9M, having grown by £7.8M (33%) since 2013. In the REF period the Faculty has been
 awarded, and renewed, its Athena-SWAN Silver award, implemented a Faculty-wide
 mentoring service and increased the proportion of female and BAME senior academic staff.
 The Faculty is led by the Dean, Professor Diana Eccles and is administered via four Schools:
    •   Cancer Sciences (CS)
    •   Clinical Experimental Sciences (CES)
    •   Human Development and Health (HDH)
    •   Primary Care, Population Sciences and Medical Education (PPM).

 Staff returned in UoA1 include members of all four schools, with the primary care group in
 PPM returned in UoA2 and components of CES (psychiatry, neurology) returned in UoA4.




 Figure 1: Structure of the Faculty of Medicine: majority returned in UoA1, Primary Care Research
 Centre returned in UoA2 and psychiatry/neurology in UoA4. Additional staff are returned in UoA3
 (3 FTE), UoA5 (2 FTE) and UoA22 (0.6 FTE).


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Five Research Centres are fully integrated within the Faculty and its strategy:
    •   Cancer Research UK (CRUK) Southampton Centre and NIHR CRUK Experimental
        Cancer Medicine Centre (ECMC)
    •   Southampton Centre for Biomedical Research incorporating the NIHR Southampton
        Biomedical Research Centre (BRC) and the NIHR Southampton Clinical Research
        Facility (CRF)
    •   NIHR Wessex Applied Research Centre (ARC) hosted by the School of Health
        Sciences (UoA3)
    •   MRC Lifecourse Epidemiology University Unit (MRC LEU)
    •   Versus Arthritis-MRC National Centre of Excellence for Musculoskeletal Health and
        Work
 Three major enterprise units are also central to the Faculty strategy: the Southampton Clinical
 Trials Unit (SCTU), the Wessex Institute (WI) and the Clinical Informatics Research Unit
 (CIRU).
 Key to the Faculty’s research strategy is the University of Southampton/University Hospital
 Southampton (UoS/UHS) Partnership. This draws strength from the very best of
 Southampton’s basic science research in biomedicine, psychology, social sciences,
 electronics and computer science and mathematics.




                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Figure 2: The Southampton translational medicine partnership. Faculty research supported by
 close integration with both wider UoS and population and experimental medicine/clinical
 research infrastructure (MRC LEU, Wessex ARC, NIHR SPCR (UoA2), together with University
 Hospitals Southampton) enabling clinical and population need to inform basic research priorities
 and rapid translation from bench to bedside.

 1.2 Research Strategy
 The Faculty vision is to “Lead innovative learning and discovery for better health across the life
 course.” The strategy underpinning this vision aims to:
    • Foster multidisciplinary, translational research.
    • Inspire and equip future generations of scientists and clinicians to meet the challenges of
      a changing world.
    • Promote and lead partnerships and collaborations within the Faculty, across the
      University, regionally, nationally and globally.
    • Push the boundaries of current practice to foster a culture of innovation and enterprise.
 Our research has four key approaches:
    1. Combining basic mechanistic and clinical research to deliver internationally-leading
       research and resultant outputs.
    2. Early clinical translation, utilising and fostering links with the NHS.
    3. Interdisciplinary collaborations, through the UoS Institute for Life Sciences (IfLS).
    4. Enterprise and innovation.
 This involves a close partnership with UHS, which is governed as outlined in Figure 3.




 Figure 3: the UoS-UHS partnership supports our research strategy through a joint management
     structure ensuring alignment of Trust and University research investment and support.

 Our research falls within five key themes:
    •   Cancer Sciences
    •   Healthy Ageing and Multi-Morbidity

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Infection and Microbial Science
    •   Developmental Sciences and Regenerative Medicine
    •   Population Science

 Supporting these themes are five cross-cutting research platforms:
    •   Cell Biology & Chemistry of Life
    •   Immunology
    •   Clinical Trials & Experimental Medicine
    •   Systems Biology
    •   Data Science
 These methodological platforms underpin the research strengths within the research themes
 and guide investment in staff and infrastructure (Figure 4).




   Figure 4: Faculty of Medicine integrated research strategy showing major research themes
                                  and methodological platforms.
 1.2.1 Cancer Sciences
 Research in cancer sciences is supported by a long-established relationship with CRUK. Our
 facilities include the CRUK Southampton Centre, CRUK ECMC (A Davies, Williams) and core
 funding from CRUK to the SCTU (Griffiths). Southampton also hosts a Bloodwise centre of
 excellence in understanding and treating lymphoid malignancies. Co-location within the
 footprint of the South coast’s major tertiary referral cancer hospital delivers unrestricted access
 to cancer patient-level data and biospecimens. The latter is a key strength, made real by our
 long-standing investment in surgical oncology and supported by an HTA accredited tissue
 bank (Thomas). In 2018 the Faculty opened the Centre for Cancer Immunology (CCI), a
 purpose-built facility to expand research capacity and accelerate our translation of
 immunotherapy to patients, providing dedicated state of the art laboratory facilities to house
 >200 scientists and support staff, comprising both basic discovery science, preclinical
 facilities, and clinical teams.



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The CRUK Centre has an international reputation and acknowledged opinion leaders in the
 treatment of lymphoma, immunotherapy, and upper gastrointestinal surgery. The Faculty
 currently holds 5 CRUK Programme grants (S Ward & Ober, Cragg, Packham, Glennie,
 Elliot), two Advanced Clinician Scientist Awards (Underwood, Sean Lim) and two CRUK
 Network Accelerator Awards (Johnson, Forconi) which bring together experts across the UK
 and internationally. The Centre has significant collaborations with biotech (BioInvent,
 BioNTech, Epizyme) and pharma (Roche, AstraZeneca, Johnson & Johnson) to support
 translation into clinical testing from laboratory programmes. Ten novel biotherapeutics have
 moved from the laboratory programmes of the centre to exploratory clinical studies, either
 directly or in partnership with biotech companies (ICS01-10 and ICS01-07).
 There is a broad interdisciplinary collaboration spanning structural biology, chemistry,
 glycobiology, microfluidics, immunopeptidomics, mathematics and computing to address the
 most challenging cancer questions. For example, how to understand the immunopeptidome of
 solid tumours using mass spectrometry and how to define tumour ecosystems with unique
 microfluidic solutions.
 1.2.2 Healthy Ageing and Multi-Morbidity
 The healthy ageing research theme encompasses research groups in Respiratory, Allergy and
 Critical Care (aligned with the Respiratory and Critical Care theme of the BRC),
 Musculoskeletal disease (aligned with the MRC LEU), Nutrition (aligned with the Nutrition
 theme of the BRC), Metabolism, Endocrinology and Cardiovascular Disease, Inflammation and
 Immunity, and Clinical Neuroscience and Mental Health (UoA4).
 Respiratory, Allergy and Critical Care: Southampton is a leading international centre for
 research in respiratory disease, especially asthma (Djukanovic, Holgate, Howarth, Haitchi),
 chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) (Wilkinson), primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD)
 (Lucas), idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (M Jones), and respiratory infections (S Clarke,
 Elkington, Read; §1.2.3). The programme encompasses translational studies in human
 disease, linking basic and clinical science with strong pharma involvement (§4.3.2, ICS01-05).
 Complementing the clinical research strength is significant expertise in respiratory biology
 including immunology (Staples, Sanchez-Elsner), airway cell biology (D Davies, Swindle,
 Blume, J Collins, Lackie, Mennella), mast cells (Walls), genomics (JW Holloway) and
 biomarkers (Skip (UoA5)). Loxham leads a programme in the respiratory effects of air
 pollution and Holgate is the UK Clean air champion (ICS01-06).
 In allergy Arshad, JW Holloway, Kurukulaaratchy, G Roberts lead the Isle of Wight Birth
 Cohort investigating epidemiology, natural history, genetic and environmental risk factors in
 the origins and progression of asthma and allergy spanning three decades. Ardern-Jones
 focuses on skin and drug allergy.
 In critical care Grocott leads a major programme in perioperative care with Jack and Levett
 (Cat C) including the major WesFIT phase III pragmatic trial assessing efficacy of a
 prehabilitation programme in patients undergoing cancer surgery.

 The group plays a major role in the BRC (Respiratory theme lead Djukanovic) and has
 significant national (e.g. Respiratory TRP) and international (e.g.EU IMI UBIOPRED program)
 partnerships.
 Musculoskeletal: Our musculoskeletal research includes world-leading epidemiology (C
 Cooper, Harvey, Dennison, Walker-Bone, K Ward) led by the MRC LEU (§1.2.5), augmented
 by translational research in inflammatory arthritis (Edwards, C Cooper, European League
 Against Rheumatism Centre of Excellence in Rheumatology Research), elderly care (H

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Roberts) and a vibrant interdisciplinary programme in biomedical engineering (Oreffo,
 Dawson, Evans, Tare) focusing on strategies to regenerate bone and cartilage using stem cell
 technology (§1.2.4). Interdisciplinary research in musculoskeletal ageing includes collaboration
 with the School of Health Sciences in a Versus Arthritis-MRC Centre of Excellence in Sport and
 Osteoarthritis (Stokes, Adams (UoA3), C Cooper), and with Engineering addressing high-
 resolution imaging and skeletal strength (Schneider (UoA12), K Ward, Harvey). The MRC LEU
 also hosts the Centre of Excellence for Musculoskeletal Health and Work (Walker-Bone, C
 Cooper).
 Nutrition, Endocrinology and Metabolism: This group conducts internationally-recognised
 interdisciplinary research which incorporates the metabolism and functionality of fatty acids and
 nutritional immunology (Burdge, Calder, Childs, Miles); metabolic conditions including obesity,
 diabetes, fatty liver disease and cardiovascular disease (Byrne, Englyst, Holt, Sethi); early life
 nutrition (Godfrey); diagnosing and meeting nutritional challenges in older people (Ibrahim, H
 Roberts); metabolomics and the microbiome (Swann); and nutritional determinants of
 resilience and response to therapy in chronic disease (Wootton). The research programme is
 translational, linking pre-clinical science discoveries to public health and clinical applications
 and has a life-course perspective with strong links to the MRC LEU and to Global Health
 (§1.2.5). The group has substantial involvement in the BRC (Lifecourse Nutrition theme lead
 Godfrey). There is also a strong research programme in interventional cardiology (Curzen,
 Mahmoudi).
 Clinical Neuroscience and vision science: focuses on clinical and environmental factors
 that impair brain development and impact on long-term neurological and neurodevelopmental
 function. This includes neuroinflammation and neuropathology (Carare, Boche, Galea,
 Newman, Nicoll) and neuronal stem cells (Willame-Morawek) (§1.2.4). Interdisciplinary
 research is facilitated by the cross-university Southampton Neuroscience Group (SoNG) and
 the Interdisciplinary Dementia and Ageing Centre (iDeAC; §1.6). Vision science includes
 genetic, cell biology and clinical studies of paediatric and adult eye disease with a major focus
 on retinal diseases (ICS01-09) including new therapeutic approaches such as gene therapy,
 pluripotent stem cells and retinal cell transplantation with interdisciplinary work in the
 application of AI to disease stratification (Lotery, Self, H Lee, Lakowski, Ratnayaka).
 Immunity & Inflammation: the immunity and inflammation group includes Polak, (Wellcome
 Henry Dale Fellow in systems immunology), Mansour (MRC NIRG, γδ-T cells in infection and
 cancer), and the hepatitis group which studies clinical and basic aspects of hepatitis C and B,
 with national and international partnerships, pioneering the understanding of natural killer cells
 and innate immunity in hepatitis C (Khakoo, Blunt).
 1.2.3 Infection and Microbial Science
 This theme encompasses public health, primary care, experimental medicine and basic
 scientific investigation of pathogenesis, prevention and diagnosis of infectious diseases
 covering virology, bacterial pathogenesis, molecular epidemiology, diagnostics, global health,
 experimental human challenge, and early and late phase clinical trials. Significant supporting
 infrastructure is provided by the BRC, the BBSRC National Biofilms Innovations Centre (NBIC)
 and an EPSRC-funded Network for Antimicrobial Resistance and Infection Prevention
 (NAMRIP).
 Virology research focuses on RNA viruses including rhinovirus, norovirus and coronaviruses as
 well as chronic infections e.g., Hepatitis C virus and HIV (I Clarke, Khakoo, McCormick).
 Bacterial research is centred on pathogenesis, pre-clinical development of vaccines and
 developing new treatment strategies for biofilm infections and the major causative organisms

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of bacterial meningitis and sepsis (Read, Christodoulides), and tuberculosis (Elkington). In
 Chlamydia, I Clarke has established the world’s largest reference strain Biobank and leads the
 development of plasmid-based chlamydial genetics to understand virulence.
 There are strong multi-disciplinary links with the Population Health and Healthy Ageing and
 Multi-Morbidity themes, e.g., investigation of molecular epidemiology of Streptococcus
 pneumoniae and other vaccine-preventable bacterial infections, particularly in relation to
 polysaccharide conjugate vaccines (S Clarke) and in the social and genetic epidemiology of
 Hepatitis C (Buchanan, Khakoo). In respiratory medicine, primary human cell models are
 utilised to investigate the pathogenesis of bacterial (NTHi) and viral infectious exacerbations in
 COPD (Staples, Wilkinson), asthma (D Davies, Djukanovic, Swindle) and PCD (Lucas) as
 well as SARS-CoV-2 infection (Wilkinson, McCormick).
 There are strong interdisciplinary interactions with engineering to develop novel in vitro
 primary cell culture systems (Elkington, X Zhang (UoA12)) and novel diagnostic technologies
 for rapid point-of-care diagnostics (Read, Wilkinson, Morgan (UoA12)). Clark leads a
 programme investigating the operational use of point-of-care tests and interdisciplinary
 collaborations developing paper-based technologies, flow-based microfluidic and
 optoelectronic technologies for respiratory (SARS-CoV-2 and Tb), eye, and sexually
 transmitted infections are being developed (§3.4.1). This links to a major research programme
 in appropriateness of antimicrobial therapy in primary care (Little, Moore (UoA2)).
 Southampton is one of few centres in the UK which conducts controlled human infection
 studies. The world’s first controlled infection with Bordetella pertussis revealed that colonisation
 is an immunising event (Read) and will enable rapid evaluation of novel vaccines. Controlled
 human infection with genetically transformed Neisseria has been pioneered to enable
 development of live bacterial agents for expression of immunising antigen within the respiratory
 tract.
 Clinical vaccine trials are focused on the prevention and management of severe bacterial
 disease and respiratory infection in children and adults including candidate vaccines against
 meningococcal disease (Read), malaria, pandemic influenza, and coronavirus (Faust). C
 Jones (Co-director of IMPRINT (IMmunising PRegnant women and INfants neTwork) is
 evaluating strategies to immunise pregnant women and infants in the UK and globally.
 1.2.4. Developmental Sciences and Regenerative Medicine
 Southampton has a strong track record in human genetics and medical genomics supported
 by the Wessex Genomic Medicine Centre (Directors Temple, A Williams) and the Wessex
 Regional Genetics Laboratory (Director Cross). There is a broad research program in genetic
 medicine from the study of single gene disorders (Temple, A Collins, Pengelly, Baralle)
 through to identification of genetic factors influencing common disease (Ennis, JW Holloway,
 Eccles, Tapper), the identification of somatically-acquired mutations in cancer (Cross), and
 the clinical application of genomic technology for molecular diagnosis and treatment support
 optimisation of cancer treatment (Strefford). Temple and D Mackay have described,
 developed diagnostic tests, and lead studies of personalised treatment for novel imprinting
 disorders (ICS01-04). Functional genomics is used to assess variant pathogenicity with
 Baralle (supported by an NIHR Research Professorship award) and Vorechovsky focussing
 on RNA splicing, Wheway on ciliopathies, and Ennis on machine learning algorithms. Eccles
 leads the Prospective study of Outcomes in Sporadic versus Hereditary breast cancer study
 and with Tapper has provided key insights into the influence of inherited genotype on cancer
 pathology and prognosis.



                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Maternal Physiology group (Green, Cagampang, Poore) undertake mechanistic studies
 of how developmental environment contributes to risk of chronic disease later in life as part of
 the Developmental Origins of Health and Disease (DOHaD) Centre (ICS01-03) with the MRC
 LEU, nutrition, and global health groups (lead Hanson). This is complemented by studies of
 epigenetic programming in development (Godfrey).
 Cheong leads interdisciplinary research developing nano-therapeutics and medical
 biosensors to understand the biology of endometrium and endometrial associated pathology
 (endometriosis and adhesions). The placental biology (Lewis and Cleal) group studies
 nutrient transport mechanisms across the placenta including development of computational
 models of placental function (with Sengers (UoA12)).
 The Centre for Human Development Stem Cells and Regeneration (CHDSR, lead Oreffo)
 undertakes fundamental research into early development and stem cells together with applied
 translational research. The Centre’s interdisciplinary research harnesses the translational
 strength of the University together with an innovative Stem Cell PhD programme. Research
 themes include early embryo development (Eckert, Houghton); tissue stem cells in bone
 (Oreffo, Tare), cancer (Cragg, Packham), eye (Lakowski), and brain (Willaime-Morawek);
 mathematical modelling of stem cell fate (MacArthur); and bioengineering and tissue
 regeneration (Oreffo, Tare, Dawson, Evans).
 1.2.5. Population Science
 This theme encompasses research groups in public health, lifecourse epidemiology and global
 health. Additional expertise in statistics is provided by a joint appointment with mathematics,
 Böhning (UoA10), Director of the Southampton Statistical Sciences Research Institute and the
 Faculty-hosted Research Design Service South Central, and in health economics by the
 Southampton Health Technologies Assessment Centre.
 MRC LEU: World-leading research in the epidemiology of musculoskeletal and metabolic
 ageing is housed within the MRC LEU (director C Cooper; programme leaders Harvey,
 Dennison, K Ward, Inskip, Godfrey, Baird, Barker (UoA3), Osmond, Kumaran, Fall). The
 Unit has secured continuous intramural MRC funding since its formation in 1979 and will be
 continued after its reconfiguration as a directly-funded MRC Centre in the quinquennium 2021-
 26. Its mission is to provide a centre of excellence using epidemiologic methods to delineate
 the lifecourse aetiology and prevention of osteoporosis (ICS01-02), osteoarthritis and
 sarcopenia, as well as obesity, type 2 diabetes mellitus and coronary heart disease. The Unit
 also serves as a hub for national and international cohort studies (the Hertfordshire Cohort
 Study; Southampton Women’s Survey; Health and Employment after 50 Study) and
 intervention platforms (MAVIDOS (Maternal Vitamin D supplementation in pregnancy and
 Osteoporosis in the Offspring); Mumbai Maternal Nutrition Study; EACH-B (addressing
 adolescent behaviour change); and WRAPPED (addressing effective means of modifying the
 food environment)). The Unit contributes to major national research consortia, most
 importantly leading the musculoskeletal component of the UK Biobank intensive phenotyping
 follow-up. It also serves as the focus for the Centre of Excellence for Musculoskeletal Health
 and Work (director Walker-Bone), continuing a long-established programme in occupational
 epidemiology.
 Public Health: The public health group leads interdisciplinary projects to better understand the
 patterns and causes of poor health and to develop interventions that enhance the prevention,
 early detection and management of ill health. This includes work on prison health (Parkes,
 Kendall), renal disease (Roderick, Fraser), and maternal and child health (Alwan). Parkes
 leads the healthy communities’ theme of the ARC and Alwan contributed to the public health


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 response to COVID-19 by leading the recognition and the quantification of morbidity from
 COVID-19, having initiated the call to count ‘Long COVID’.
 Global Health: Supported by the UoS Global Health Institute (leads K Ward, Norris), this
 group undertakes interdisciplinary research to address current and emerging transnational
 issues in population health and wellbeing and their determinants in a wider socio-behavioural,
 spatial, political, cultural, environmental, healthcare and technological context. This includes
 major programmes in nutrition including the TALENT and HeLTI studies (Fall, Kumaran), the
 NIHR Global Health Research Group INPreP study (Improved Nutrition, Preconception,
 Pregnancy and Post-delivery) (K Ward, Norris); musculoskeletal epidemiology where K Ward
 leads SAMSON (Sub-Saharan Musculoskeletal Network) and is a lead investigator on an
 NIHR-Wellcome Trust collaborative project on fracture risk in sub-Saharan Africa. Norris is
 Director of the South African MRC’s Developmental Pathways for Health Research Unit at the
 University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg and was recruited in the REF period to
 strengthen Global Heath research. In infectious disease, McGrath (NIHR Global Health
 Professorship) focuses on HIV transmission dynamics, and the impact of antiretroviral drugs
 on HIV transmission, pregnancy and infant outcomes, sexual behaviour and partnership, and
 Elkington on Tuberculosis. Head leads the RESearch INvestments in Global Health study
 (RESIN) that maps the global landscape of research funding, comparing levels of investment
 with burden of disease.
 Clinical Ethics and Law: Lucassen leads a research programme in consent and
 confidentiality in genomics and data science (§1.2.4).

 1.3 Impact Strategy
 In accordance with our University mission to “Change the World for the Better”, derivation of
 research impact is at the heart of our strategy. Central to this objective is a strong, innovative
 and creative culture combined with the ability to engage and build effective relationships with
 partners (business, public and third sector); knowledge exchange is embedded seamlessly in
 all our research and education activities. The University Enterprise & Impact Strategy (§REF5a
 2.3) provides the framework for governing and championing knowledge exchange activities,
 putting people at its core, with impact generation and sustainability as vital components.
 Additional input, provided by the IfLS, supports interdisciplinary innovation to tackle health
 problems. Our impact case studies attest to close interactions with health policy makers,
 health care providers, associated stakeholders, industry, patients and the public. Our close
 relationship with UHS provides insight into clinical need and a unique resource for clinical
 translation, where innovations can be quickly and easily trialled with patients. We are a
 founding partner of the Wessex AHSN which supports the journey of innovations into the NHS.
 1.3.1 Economic Impact
 Our Faculty Enterprise Board, chaired by the Associate Dean (Enterprise) (Cheong), reviews
 all patent applications and plans for commercialisation; further support is provided by
 Enterprise Fellows (Roghanian, Evans, Willaime-Morawek) whose primary role is to make
 business aware of research expertise present within the Faculty. This includes: i) technology
 mapping of research activities; ii) targeted promotion and advertising of research activities to
 the business community through events; iii) brokering introductions between Faculty staff and
 industry.
 The Faculty is supported by the University’s Research and Innovation Services (RIS) (§REF5a
 1.5) impact support team. Supported by MRC Confidence in Concept awards, and building on
 the success of previous HEIF funding, skills development training is provided for early career
 researchers in business collaboration and commercialisation (§2.1.2). Supported by an MRC

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Proximity to Discovery award we engaged with the University’s Future Worlds start-up
 accelerator that supports academic-industry partnering, student and staff entrepreneurship,
 and spinout and start-up activity (§REF5a 2.3), to recruit mentors, investors and industry
 partners in the biomedical field; showcase innovations; and deliver seminars to engage staff
 and students interested in entrepreneurship (§4.3.3). UoA1 researchers also benefit from the
 ICURe programme which provides support for potential university start-ups and spin-outs
 (§REF5a 2.3). To showcase UoA1 research to partners and investors we hold "Pitch for
 Partnership" events with Pharma e.g. with Pfizer, MedImmune and AstraZeneca focussing on
 inflammation, and with AstraZeneca focussing on immuno-oncology (ICS01-07).
 1.3.2 Impact on Policy
 The Faculty encourages researchers to engage with policy makers to derive impact from their
 research and is supported by the University’s Public Policy|Southampton (PP|S) unit (§REF5a
 2.9). This includes both local with Southampton City Council (Vogel), national e.g.,
 Department of Health, Department of Transport (e.g., Holgate; ICS01-06) and international
 e.g., World Health Organisation (WHO) (Godfrey, Hanson, Poore; ICS01-03). Support for
 researchers includes training events (how to influence policymakers, how to write a policy
 brief, data visualisation for policy, be a policymaker for an hour), training for researchers
 appearing before select committees, and publication of policy briefs.
 1.3.3 Impact on Society
 The Faculty Head of Engagement (Green) chairs the Engaged Medicine steering group, which
 works closely with the University’s Public Engagement with Research unit (PERu) and the
 Health and Wellbeing Public Engagement Hub, to bring together members of the University
 and Southampton community at a range of engagement events throughout the year. The
 Faculty also hosts LifeLab on the UHS campus, a purpose-built educational facility with wet
 lab and dry classrooms used for hands on learning with school children and professional
 education for teachers (§4.3.5, ICS01-03). LifeLab also provides public engagement training
 and registration as STEM ambassadors for researchers and co-ordinates outreach and
 engagement activities. Funding is provided from both PERu and Faculty to support
 development of public engagement activities and the Faculty supports researchers in public
 engagement via the Southampton Science and Engineering Festival, partnership with the
 Winchester Science Centre and with the University outreach teams at events such as festivals
 (§4.3.5).

 1.4 Support for Interdisciplinary Research
 Aligning with the University’s strategy, the Faculty of Medicine has a longstanding commitment
 to multi- and interdisciplinary research. The major research themes within the Faculty cross
 School boundaries and there are low barriers between faculties, facilitating research between
 clinical medicine and disciplines in life, physical and social sciences. To support and facilitate
 cross-disciplinary working, the Faculty has invested in joint posts with other disciplines e.g.,
 mathematics (MacArthur, Böhning (UoA10)), psychology (Garner (UoA4)), engineering
 (Evans) and social sciences (McGrath). The Faculty contributes to all the University-wide
 Interdisciplinary Research Institutes (§REF5a 2.6) and is at the heart of the University
 interdisciplinary strategy for Life Sciences. We lead (Carare) the Interdisciplinary Dementia
 and Ageing Centre (iDeAC), a network of ~90 clinical and academic researchers from UoS
 and UHS. External to the University, the Faculty benefits from the University’s membership in
 national level interdisciplinary research initiatives, including the Rosalind Franklin and Turing
 Institutes.



                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.5 Commitment to Research Integrity and Open Research
 The Faculty supports University policies to ensure it meets the highest standards for the
 conduct of its research. The Associate Dean (Research) sits on the institutional Research
 Integrity and Governance Committee and completes the Faculty’s Annual Research Integrity
 Report. The Faculty Ethics Committee reviews all research projects not requiring NRES and
 includes a lay member. The Faculty Research Integrity Champion (Blaydes) oversees training
 of PGR students and provides advice and support to researchers in relation to research
 integrity.
 Specific actions implemented by the Faculty include
    •   Joining the AllTrials initiative on clinical trials transparency.
    •   Compliance checks of reporting mandates for all trials sponsored by UoS or UHS.
    •   Encouraging use of pre-print repositories, especially of Covid-19 research outputs,
        followed subsequently by commitment to the Wellcome data sharing statement in
        relation to Covid-19.
    •   The Faculty’s Wessex Institute publishes the Journals library on behalf of NIHR -
        publishing comprehensive accounts of its commissioned research within its own publicly
        and permanently available journals.
 In line with the University’s Open Access (OA) policy, open access of Faculty research output
 has risen from 82% in 2016 to >91% in 2020. Our Research Publication Specialist provides
 support and advice on funder requirements for OA and prepares a regular “Research
 Publication Matters” newsletter for staff and students highlighting open science issues. The
 Research Management Committee presentations and Faculty leadership blogs regularly cover
 research integrity, OA publishing, Plan-S, open data and reproducibility. Faculty researchers
 have also contributed to University Open Research Symposia.

 1.6 Research Objectives in the assessment period
 Strategic objectives outlined in REF 2014 included:
    •   Further alignment of Faculty and UHS research strategies, enlisting more NHS
        researchers into areas of strength and capitalising on the Trust’s strong track record in
        clinical trials activity.
    •   Underpinning the UHS/UoS Partnership with mutually enhancing infrastructure and
        defined research capacity, including a human pathogen challenge unit, and enhanced
        imaging facilities.
    •   Establishing a knowledge management system and bioinformatics support for the
        integration of clinical, biometric, lifestyle and nutritional data.
    •   Using the molecular sciences hub to support new areas of research between nutrition
        and immunology (including cancer, cohort vaccine studies, birth cohort longitudinal
        studies of immune responsiveness across generations); and lung cancer studies.
    •   Establishing a Translational Vaccinology Centre.
 These have all been achieved. We have strengthened our partnership with UHS with the
 renewal of the BRC including respiratory and nutrition research themes and cross-cutting
 themes of data science, microbial science and behaviour change. This has been accompanied
 by renewal of the CRF with expanded facilities for experimental medicine, development of a
 QA regulated Wessex Investigational Sciences Hub (WISH) laboratory (incorporating the

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ECMC and Wessex GMC), and establishment of the Wessex ARC. A further step change in
 bioinformatics and clinical data access has been provided by UoS membership of the Turing
 Institute and development of the CIDHR that is committed to facilitating sharing of health data
 for research across Wessex (UoS, Wessex AHSN, UHS, Hampshire Hospitals NHS trust,
 Hampshire and Isle of Wight Strategic Transformation Partnership).
 To enhance interdisciplinary research, we stated we would:
    •   Expedite the translation of devices into clinical trials/diagnostics/biomarker discovery
        programmes.
    •   In partnership with IfLS, build our bioinformatics capability with a value chain that links
        researchers with expertise in quantitative biology to the integration and analysis of
        complex clinical and biometric datasets.
    •   Integrate infectious disease research with interdisciplinary biofilm research.
    •   Build interdisciplinary neuroscience, linking neuroinflammation and behavioural models
        to pathologic mechanisms of cognitive decline and neurodegeneration in humans.
    •   Integrate “imaging in the nanodomain” into medicine research and expedite the flow of
        projects from medicine through the established crystallography “pipeline” to increase
        yield of structure-function data.
 We have significantly expanded our interdisciplinary research partnerships across the
 University that has led to a step change in the level of activity in incorporating engineering
 solutions to solve biomedical research problems. In the assessment period a core module in
 quantitative biology has been developed as part of our MRC DTP, and we have established an
 MSc Genomic Medicine with modules in bioinformatics. These modules are available to all
 PGR students in the Faculty and have supported recruitment of academic staff with expertise
 in bioinformatics (Pengelley, Rose-Zerilli, Gibson, Polak, Wheway, Walters). The Bi-OMICs
 network connects researchers across the University, sharing expertise and promoting
 interdisciplinary ‘omics research, and CIDHR facilitates access to clinical data. In biofilms we
 were successful in the establishment of the NAMRIP network and involvement (Read, Faust)
 in the BBSRC NBIC and the establishment of an Anti-Microbial Resistance (AMR) laboratory
 at UHS to test engineering solutions. To support interdisciplinary neuroscience and mental
 health research we have established iDeAC to support interdisciplinary research to address
 challenges in the fields of dementia and brain ageing. In imaging, the Faculty has recruited
 Menella with expertise in super-resolution microscopy, developed X-ray Micro-Computed
 Tomography for non-destructive 3D histology in collaboration with Engineering (§3.4.1) and
 Coherent Anti-Stokes Raman scattering and second harmonic generation for label-free, non-
 destructive, non-invasive imaging for cellular and tissue analysis (Oreffo with Mahajan
 (UoA8)). As part of the development of the CCI, we recruited Ober (Professor of Imaging and
 Biomedical Engineering) with expertise in single molecule microscopy approaches including
 multifocal plane microscopy, to enable the study of fast cellular transport processes in 3D.
 Our strategy for External Partnerships stated we would:
    •   Develop our collaborative research with GSK to extend into other areas of mutual
        interest including cancer immunotherapy.
    •   Pursue similar partnerships with at least one other industrial partner.
    •   Develop further collaborations with PHE and Dstl Porton, through a Translational
        Vaccinology Centre that brings together strengths in basic research, preclinical models,


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        production and clinical trials, with particular focus on developing human challenge
        facilities.
    •   Build a new Centre for Cancer Immunology (CCI).
 We have grown our research partnership with GSK to encompass cancer and molecular
 immunology with awards to Cragg (cancer immunology), Polak and West (molecular
 immunology/systems biology), and Sanchez-Elsner (IBD). We have also expanded our
 research partnerships with Pharma (§4.3.2) e.g., Wilkinson with AstraZeneca and Djukanovic
 with Novartis. We have developed a world-first human challenge model using genetically
 modified commensals for vaccination (Read) and expanded the delivery of trials evaluating the
 safety and efficacy of candidate vaccines in the MHRA phase 1 accredited CRF (§1.2.3).
 Wilkinson with GSK has completed a phase II trial of NTHi protein vaccine in adults with COPD
 to prevent exacerbations. We have also established the Wessex Vaccines Hub (Faust) to
 deliver phase I/II/II SARS-CoV-2 vaccine trials including ChAdOx1 nCoV-1 (Oxford), LNP-
 nCoVsaRNA (Imperial), NVX-CoV2373 (Novavax), JNJ-78436725 (Janssen, Faust UK CI) and,
 in 2021, Medicago COVID-19 vaccine (C Jones UK CI), COM-COV (NISEC/DHSC), Pfizer/AZ
 heterologous prime boost and scheduling, Faust, Read co-investigators), DIOS-CoVax2
 (DIOSynVax/Cambridge), MSD COVID-19 vaccine, and AstraZeneca PROVENT and
 STORMCHASER monoclonal antibody trials. To further strengthen critical mass in vaccine
 research we recruited C Jones to lead a programme in maternal vaccination in pregnancy. We
 have also delivered the vision of the Southampton CCI (§1.2.1).

 1.7 Strategic aims for research and impact for the next 5 years
 As described in §1.2 our current research strategy focusses on:
    •   multidisciplinary and translational research
    •   development of the next generation of clinical and biomedical researchers
    •   increasing the range and reach of our research partnerships
    •   fostering a culture of innovation and enterprise
 To achieve this, we will:
    1. Increase the proportion of interdisciplinary research through partnership with other
       Faculties, specifically, to realise the potential of the two nascent interdisciplinary
       research centres in clinical data sciences (CIDHR) and dementia and ageing (iDeAC).
    2. Work with other UoS Faculties (Engineering and Physical Sciences, Social Sciences
       Environment and Life Sciences) to develop interdisciplinary undergraduate (biomedical
       engineering) and postgraduate research programmes to train the interdisciplinary
       biomedical research workforce of the future.
    3. Strengthen the relationship with UHS and other Wessex NHS organisations through
       establishment of an Academic Health Sciences Centre to ensure our research continues
       to be responsive to local population needs and to capitalise on the resources and
       expertise in medical research in Wessex.
    4. To maintain and grow our relationship with external funders that support our research
       infrastructure including the MRC (DTP and LEC), CRUK (Southampton Centre, CTU and
       ECMC), Bloodwise (Lymphoma research centre), Versus Arthritis (Centre of Excellence
       for Musculoskeletal Health and Work), and NIHR (BRC, CRF, CTU and ARC).




                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    5. Continue to enhance our support for clinical academic career development through the
       Southampton Clinical Academic Training Scheme (SoCATS) and increase the number of
       clinical academic research staff at all career stages.
    6. Enhance the sustainability of our research through further development of a core-facility
       model for research instruments and increase support for open science through
       investment in technical support for data management.
    7. To enhance the support for enterprise units within the Faculty by establishing a
       transparent and consistent financial process for enterprise related activities to enhance
       their impact in supporting the health and social care research ecosystem.
    8. Capitalise on the establishment of the Engaged Medicine steering group and the
       appointment of a Head of Faculty Engagement to enhance outreach, public engagement
       with science and PPI in Faculty research projects.

 2. People

 2.1 Current Staff
 Of our 412 academic staff (§1.1), 193 (179.97 FTE) were eligible for REF 2021 comprising
 39% female and 61% male, of which 20% are international and over 18% BAME.
 2.1.1 Staffing and recruitment strategy
 As described in §REF5a 3.1, the UoS Education Research and Enterprise (ERE) job family
 has four career pathways: balanced, education-, research- and enterprise-led. Within the
 Faculty, clear descriptors for promotion, based solely on merit, exist for each pathway and
 level. Movement between career pathways is encouraged, reflecting individuals’ changing
 interests and institutional requirements. ERE promotions and pathway movements are initially
 considered within the Faculty, followed by the University-level Academic Promotions Advisory
 Group. Promotions and in-level transfers at level 6 (Associate Professor) and level 7
 (Professor) involve an interview panel chaired by a member of the University Executive Board
 (§REF5a 1.3). Annual appraisals are required for all staff and outcomes are moderated by the
 next-level manager, with University Executive Board scrutiny to ensure University-wide
 consistency (§REF5a 1.3).
 The Faculty is succession planning for staff retirements through recruitment and internal
 promotion. During the assessment period we have recruited 7 male (2 clinical) and 4 female (1
 clinical) professors, and 10 male (7 clinical) and 10 female (7 clinical) associate professors.
 We have made strategic appointments in core areas of research strength to ensure
 sustainability in areas where there have been senior retirements e.g., respiratory (M Jones,
 Staples, Kurukulaaratchy) and nutrition and metabolism (Swann, Childs), and to enhance
 areas of growth e.g. Cancer Immunology (Ober, S Ward), and genomics (Pengelley,
 Wheway, Walters), public health (Alwan, Plugge) and global health (K Ward, Norris). All
 new posts are discussed at the Faculty Operations Board to ensure that new academic posts
 are only appointed where their expertise will synergise with our strategic research themes.
 2.1.2 Support for Career Development
 We uphold the Researcher Development Concordat and move ECRs to permanent contracts
 after working in the University for four years. When a researcher’s short-term contract has less
 than six months left, meetings with their supervisor are held to plan transition to a new contract
 where possible. We have invested in supporting the career development of external fellowship




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 holders through transition to permanent contracts (in all cases for 5-year intermediate
 fellowship holders (§2.2.1)).
 All new research staff undergo probation, with regular supervision meetings with specific
 objectives set for the first six months, a written personal development plan, and review at 3-
 and 6-months. Research training support includes a research skills training programme
 (research methodology, epidemiology, statistics, communication, presentation skills, etc.),
 transferable skills programme (scientific writing, work-life balance, grant writing etc.), and
 professional development workshops (time management, leadership skills, building/managing
 research teams, public impact, teaching skills). This training programme is available to all staff
 at all levels. Further support is provided by senior academics (mentoring, reviewing
 grant/fellowship applications); Research and Innovation Services (grant application support,
 interactions with industry, collaborations with external institutions, intellectual property); and
 members of the CRF, BRC, UHS R&D, CTU, RDS etc. in accordance with the trainee’s
 needs/project.
 Our Faculty fellowship mentoring process supports individuals to apply for external fellowship
 awards and is overseen by Fellowship Champions (Holgate and Johnson (clinical), and S
 Ward (non-clinical)) who hold regular drop-in clinics. Individuals complete an EoI 12-months in
 advance of application which is reviewed to assess appropriateness of the targeted scheme.
 Mentors are assigned to prospective applicants to support proposal development. Interview
 training and mock interviews are provided with support from RIS.
 The University is a signatory to the Technician Commitment to ensure visibility, recognition
 and career development for technicians working in the Faculty. We have expanded eligibility to
 ECR training programmes and ability to present to PGR/ECR research conferences to
 technical staff to recognise their contribution to the research environment.
 2.1.3 Study leave and flexible working
 The faculty follows the University Policy (§REF5a 3.2) with respect to sabbaticals/ study/
 research leave. Provision is made for clinical staff to flex their University/NHS clinical service
 balance. Flexible or remote working is routinely enabled where needs are identified. Between
 2014 and 2020, 66 members of staff requested and were granted a change to their working
 pattern. Staff policies apply equally to both full-time and part-time staff, and within the Faculty
 no distinction is made between full and part-time staff in the allocation of resources.
 2.1.4 Faculty Mentoring service
 The Faculty provides all staff with access to a mentor, for either long-term or one-stop
 mentoring, as an independent source of career advice and support. Mentors are listed on a
 mentoring database which contains >100 academic and non-academic mentors (49% female).
 Mentees can search for mentors using key words e.g., research field, expertise in fellowship
 applications, or seniority. Alternatively, the mentoring co-ordinator suggests possible
 individuals for mentees to select from. The mentoring scheme is promoted within the Faculty,
 at induction and at appraisal. Speciality mentoring for parental leave (maternity, paternity and
 adoption) was introduced in 2014. Training is provided for both mentees and mentors in the
 language of mentoring to ensure relationships are productive, and workshops on life-work
 balance, appraisal, and career progression are provided.
 2.1.5 Enterprise and innovation skills training
 The Faculty has a programme of activities designed to build new and sustainable partnerships
 and create opportunities for engagement with business. This programme fosters engagement
 with business, increasing the proportion of funding from industry to support new health and


                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 medical research and innovation. This programme is run jointly across the University EPSRC,
 ESRC & STFC IAAs as well as the MRC CIC to encourage and stimulate interdisciplinary
 innovations.
 Training on business collaboration includes a 2-day residential led by an external consultant,
 and a networking event with businesses. The business & commercialisation fellowship is a
 new opportunity for ECRs to join the cohort of similar EPSRC IAA-funded fellows, enabling
 candidates to immerse themselves in developing an understanding of the essential elements
 for commercialisation (e.g. contracts, IP, licensing, deal making, negotiating, business
 planning, investor readiness and market appraisal), shadow and network with practitioners,
 professional advisers and investors. Innovation and ideation sandpits bring ECRs from all
 disciplines together, enabling their expertise to create new solutions to health and medical
 challenges Secondments enable development of sustainable relationships with new
 businesses.
 2.1.6 Contribution, Integration and development of NHS Clinical Researchers
 As described in §1.2, we have a close partnership with University Hospital Southampton which
 ensures that the UHS R&D strategy and our strategy are aligned, and that we jointly support
 research active clinicians within the Faculty and Trust. Clinical academic trainees are
 overseen by the Southampton Clinical Academic Training Scheme (SOCATS, §2.2.3), and the
 Southampton Academy of Research (SoAR, §2.4). All consultant appointment panels have
 representation from the Faculty to assess research strategic alignment. UHS and UoS
 collaborate to allow flexibility in career trajectories with individuals able to switch between UHS
 and UoS appointments to reflect increased research activity. For example, in the REF period A
 Davies, Iverson, Curzen and Rangarajan have moved from UHS to UoS appointments at
 Professorial Level. Research active physicians and allied health professionals are offered
 honorary UoS contracts allowing access to research facilities and facilitate integration into the
 Faculty. They can apply for Honorary Associate Professor/ Professor titles via the UoS
 promotion process. Currently in UoA1 we have 42 honorary Clinical Senior Lecturers, 9
 honorary Associate Professors and 7 honorary Professors, five of whom were appointed in this
 period.

 2.2 Support for early career researchers (ECRs)
 2.2.1. Postdoctoral Researchers
 The University’s Centre for Higher Education Practice (CHEP) supports ECRs through training
 and networking events. The Faculty Postdoctoral Association (PDA) aims to enhance the
 development of ECRs, nurture careers, helping individuals to achieve their research goals.
 The PDA Steering Committee includes the Chair and Faculty Concordat Champion (Boche),
 Faculty Mentoring Chair (Englyst) and at least one ECR and academic member from each
 School to represent the diversity of ECRs and career pathways. ECRs are automatically
 members of the association and are welcomed by their representatives and given information
 on the purpose and support provided by the PDA including:
    •   Annual Open Forum to highlight information and advice on Faculty services - Library,
        Human Resources, Concordat, Facilities, Careers and Employability, and RIS.
    •   A Transferable Skills Programme (§2.1.2).
    •   Mentoring (§2.1.4) and peer mentoring groups.
    •   Annual Research Conference showcasing PGR and ECR research and providing
        presentation and networking opportunities.


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   School Research Clubs providing informal presentation and networking opportunities
        and allowing discussion of issues of common concern.
    •   Career Events with speakers holding a PhD but working outside academia to highlight
        opportunities beyond academia.
    •   Annual PDA Christmas Lecture delivered by a distinguished speaker on their academic
        journey, including the ups and downs, to inspire our ECRs.
    •   Dean’s Awards to emphasise that working in academia comprises Citizenship (e.g.
        delivering seminar programmes, workshops or mentoring/ pastoral support), Education
        (e.g. contribution to curriculum development), Enterprise (e.g. establishing a successful
        industry collaboration) and Public Engagement (e.g. organising an effective outreach
        event).
 We have developed an on-line interactive Career Roadmap to assist ECRs in identifying their
 preferred career path and the necessary next steps for progression including case studies
 from faculty and former staff/ students.
 Via the Committee Chair, the PDA liaises with the University Concordat Working Group, to
 ensure that the principles of the Concordat are implemented within the Faculty.
 The Faculty offers an annual postdoctoral career track fellowship providing 2 years’ salary and
 research costs support to the most promising ECRs together with intensive mentoring to
 support them in obtaining external fellowship funding. This has been highly successful with
 award holders in the assessment period winning external fellowships e.g. Wellcome Sir Henry
 Dale (Polak), EPSRC Early Career (Dawson), Leukaemia UK John Goodman (Rose-Zerilli,
 Blunt), BBSRC Future Leader (Loxham) or significant external research awards e.g. Vogel
 (NIHR Public Health Research Grant). The Faculty commits to creating permanent positions
 for successful 5-year fellowship holders or MRC New Investigator Research Grant awardees,
 e.g. Sean Lim (CRUK Clinical Scientist), Dawson, Polak, Mansour (MRC NIRG) and H Lee
 (MRC Clinician Scientist) in the current assessment period.
 2.2.3 Clinical Academic Trainees
 For Early Career Clinical Academics, the Southampton Clinical Academic Training Scheme
 (SoCATS) with Health Education England-Wessex (HEE-W), focuses on developing
 outstanding academic clinicians who undertake high-quality research for NHS benefit.
 SoCATS supports clinical academic trainees at all stages of their career, including Foundation
 Trainees (FY1 and FY2), Academic Clinical Fellows (ACFs), research training fellowship
 holders, clinicians undertaking higher research degrees (PhD/DM) and Clinical Lecturers
 (CLs). There are 36 ACFs and 16 CLs in post in HEE-W/UoS (July 2020). Sixty-one (59%) of
 the 103 pre-PhD ACFs who completed their ACF post in Southampton by 2020 have
 undertaken, or are currently undertaking, a higher degree, ensuring progression along the
 clinical academic training route. Sixteen have gone on to take up CL posts, and 2 are currently
 Associate Professors at UoS.
 Of the 36 CLs (7 female, 29 male) who have completed their CL post since SoCATS' inception
 in 2006, 86% remain in clinical academia, including:
    •   5 Professors (4 male, 1 female)
    •   9 Associate Professors (6 male, 3 female)
    •   7 honorary Senior Lecturers (6 male, 1 female)




                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   10 other research positions (including research-active Consultant roles or holding Senior
        Fellowships) (all male).
 The ACF/CL programme is overseen by an Executive Group, comprising SoCATS Director
 (Dennison), Associate Dean Academic Training HEE-W, SoCATS Manager and clinical leads
 for academic foundation training (Cutress); ACFs (Copson) and CLs (Galea), and trainee
 representation. Trainee representatives on SoCATS ensure trainees are kept informed and
 can feed into/shape training schemes appropriately. Research training is trainee-centred,
 ensuring ACFs/CLs achieve relevant research competencies and generate high-quality data to
 compete for fellowships to enable development into international-level senior academics.
 ACFs/CLs are fully integrated into clinical training, encouraged to attain clinical competencies
 early, consolidate these throughout specialty training, and achieve excellence in their chosen
 clinical and academic speciality. An Academic Lead oversees academic training for each
 specialty. All trainees have an Academic Supervisor who, as part of the trainee’s research
 supervisory team, directs their academic training. Trainees complete an annual personal
 development plan with their Academic Supervisor. Trainees are actively encouraged to select
 and meet with a senior clinical academic mentor with mentoring experience (§2.1.4).
 Networking is facilitated through regular symposia and annual Faculty/UoS conference and
 social events with other trainees and senior academics.

 2.3 Postgraduate Research students
 In the REF period 427 PhD students (31% international, 57% female) were registered in the
 Faculty of Medicine, ~98% supervised by UoA1 staff (compared to 129 over 5 years in REF
 2014), and 400 PhD and 41 DM students with lead supervisors in UoA1 completed in the REF
 period. Currently we have 230 doctoral students registered in the Faculty (including 46 with
 cross-faculty supervision), all jointly supervised by two or more academics. Additionally, we
 have 61 students jointly supervised but registered with other faculties arising from
 interdisciplinary research collaborations (mainly Engineering and Physical Sciences, and
 Environmental and Life Sciences). As well as a 3-year PhD programme, we offer a 4-year
 Integrated PhD in Biomedical Science with pathways aligned with our major biomedical
 research strengths: Infection and Immunity, Cell Biology and Immunology of Cancer, and Stem
 Cells.
 Since 2014 we have been awarded two new DTPs: the MRC DTP in Translational
 Immunology, Inflammation and Cancer (joint with QMUL, lead J Collins), and the BBSRC
 South Coast Biosciences DTP (SoCoBio), partnered with, Kent, Sussex, Portsmouth and
 NIAB-EMR (Director Terry (UoA5), Faculty lead Lewis). The MRC DTP is designed to address
 key UK skills shortages in translational medicine, notably in the priority area of ‘big data’
 through provision of specialist training in Mathematical and Quantitative Biology, involving
 statistical, bioinformatic and computational approaches and incorporating enhanced training in
 transferable skills. Since 2015-16, 56 students have been registered on the programme
 including 38 match-funded MRC DTP students, 8 ICASE students and 10 MRC National
 Productivity Investment Fund students with partial matched-funding from industry, charity and
 UoS. The new (2019-20) BBSRC SoCoBio DTP offers a broad, 4-year research training
 programme which provides students with the skills they need to develop into future bioscience
 leaders in academia or in industry.
 Additional studentship support is provided by training awards to the MRC LEU and the
 Southampton CRUK centre (clinical and non-clinical). PGR studentships (providing stipend,
 training and research costs) are funded through NIHR, MRC and Wellcome Trust Clinical
 Training Fellowships, medical research charities, competitive studentships funded by the


                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Faculty, Institute for Life Science, UoS Presidential Scholarships, Public Health England and
 industry.
 2.3.1 PGR Recruitment
 All PGR studentships are advertised nationally and internationally, and applicants are
 assessed by a minimum of two academics who have received recruitment and selection,
 unconscious bias, and ED&I training.
 2.3.2 Monitoring and support of doctoral students, skills development
 Our doctoral students undertake an individualised learning needs analysis within the first
 month of enrolment and agree tailored training programmes. We hold an annual formal
 assessment with an adviser from outside the supervisory team. All students receive a
 Research Training and Support Grant (irrespective of whether the funder provides this) for
 which they are joint budget holders with the supervisor. All PGRs follow a School induction
 programme, while a Graduate School Handbook sets out policies, procedures and training
 requirements.
 All PGRs take general skills/research training courses, including those focusing on the
 development of societal impact and open research. These are all mapped to the Vitae
 Researcher Development Framework. The University Doctoral College (§REF5a 3.7)
 coordinates generic skills training via an online booking system and runs an annual Festival of
 Research event, facilitating inter-disciplinary engagement.
 Students have access to additional research methods training and pastoral support through
 the programmes run by the Faculty Graduate School and SoCATS (for clinical PGRs). The
 taught postgraduate research training programme includes: learning needs analysis, study
 design, epidemiology, library and critical appraisal skills, statistics, presentations, reference
 management, E-theses, and ethics and governance. Specific research skills training includes:
 qualitative data analysis, statistical programming in R, bibliometrics, literature searching,
 systematic review methodology, research data management, and creating a thesis.
 Transferable skills courses are available within the Graduate School include: building
 relationships, mentoring, effective scientific writing, employment outside academia, abstract
 writing skills, poster presentations, fellowship applications, interview training, teaching skills,
 networking skills, oral presentation skills, preparing for your viva, voice skills, and winning CVs
 and job applications.
 There is also the opportunity to attend the annual MRC LEU-University of Cambridge
 Epidemiology for Clinicians course, and the Introduction to Health Economics course provided
 by the Southampton Health Technology Assessments Centre (SHTAC).

 2.4 Southampton Academy of Research
 SoAR was established in 2016 as a centralised pan-professional training hub to support
 health-related researcher career development across the Southampton partnership between
 UHS and UoS (Medicine (UoA1, UoA2 and UoA4) and the School of Health Sciences (UoA3))
 to nurture ECRs and staff who wish to initiate (or re-establish) a research-related career. It
 serves to co-ordinate training in clinical and biomedical research across allied health
 professionals, the SoCATS clinical academic training scheme, faculty graduate schools, UoS
 staff development, the BRC and UHS R&D. SoAR provides information and advice on
 research-related careers, training, funding and mentorship for health professionals, research
 scientists, and clinical research staff. SoAR supports clinical researchers in negotiation with
 NHS employers/HEE to ensure smooth transitions between employers when starting/finishing
 research positions.


                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.5 Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion (ED&I)
 The Faculty’s EDI Committee, chaired by the Dean, meets quarterly and receives reports from
 the EDI Faculty lead (Carare) and the Faculty champions for Athena SWAN, Racial Equality,
 Disability Confident, Technicians Charter and Harassment share best practice and progress
 reports on Faculty level initiatives. An Athena SWAN Silver award has been held since 2015.
 The EDI committee receives quarterly data reporting changes in staff characteristics at each
 level and for appraisal completion rates and all progression, promotion, appointment outcomes
 allowing dynamic scrutiny of gender/ethnicity split to expose any systematic biases at each
 stage of these processes. Selection panels are scrutinised by recruiting managers to ensure
 panels have knowledge and understanding of the University’s recruitment policy, and mixed
 gender and ethnicity wherever possible. The Dean has mandated that chairs of all selection
 panels must have completed ED&I training; currently 85% completion rate for Faculty staff.
 In the REF period, the gender balance of teaching & research and research-only permanent
 academic posts has stayed constant (55% female 2013-14, 53% 2019-20). However, women
 accounted for 60% (37/62) of academic promotions in the REF period and the proportion of
 women at senior levels (Associate Professor/Professor) has increased from 30% to 35% and
 the proportion of female clinical professors has increased from 14% (7) to 24% (13). Overall, the
 proportion of staff with a recorded BAME background has increased from 14% in 2013/14 to
 18% in 2019/20.
 The Faculty has increased its PGR applications from women and there are no significant
 differences between offer and acceptance rates between men and women. The proportion of
 women currently enrolled on our PGR programmes is 57% with no difference in graduation
 rates between genders with 85% of students achieving a Masters or Doctorate compared with
 an average of 75% nationally.
 Some of our unique contributions that set good practice locally and nationally are:
    1. Mentoring, probation, appraisal and training: In addition to probation for new staff,
       annual appraisal, and the Faculty mentoring scheme (§2.1.2, §2.1.4). ECRs and senior
       researchers are encouraged to seek discipline-specific mentoring outside the University
       where appropriate through the Academy of Medical Sciences, NIHR, or other networks.
       To increase awareness of the importance of ED&I in 2020 the Faculty leadership team
       were assigned widening participation medical student mentors in a ground-breaking
       reverse-mentoring scheme.
    2. Parental leave: ECRs on fixed term contracts that have insufficient time remaining to be
       eligible to take paid maternity leave can apply to the Faculty maternity fund to extend
       their contract to ensure they can take paid maternity leave. The Faculty have worked
       with UHS to ensure we honour continuity of service between organisations e.g., for
       eligibility for parental leave for researchers whose employment moves between the
       employers, especially clinical training fellows (who often move between Trust and
       University), and researchers employed by NIHR infrastructure hosted by the Trust.
    3. Public Engagement: We have appointed a Head of Engagement (Green) responsible for
       ensuring gender balance and encouraging female pupils in science by using activities
       such as LifeLab and ensuring that outreach and engagement activity is recognised by
       the University in promotion.
    4. Intersectionality: our intersectionality mentor (Alwan) has received support from the
       Medical Schools Athena SWAN Network and the Academy of Medical Sciences to
       create a national network of intersectionality mentors that benefits all medical schools.


                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    5. Staff recognition and rewards: Staff are eligible for Faculty “Shine a Light” Awards made
       every quarter for Quality, Creativity, Collegiality and Efficiency. The Vice-Chancellor
       awards annual prizes for Administrative and Operational Efficiency, Career
       Achievement, Collegiality, Early Career, EDI, International Engagement, Mentoring,
       Public Engagement and Outreach, Research Impact, Student Experience, Support and
       Service to the University, and Teaching. An “Most supportive PI” award is made annually
       to highlight excellence in research mentorship.
    6. Supporting wellbeing, support on return from sick leave: All staff and students meet with
       their supervisors after sick leave to ensure they are well enough to be back working, and
       that any adjustments are made to their working environment to accommodate their
       circumstances, with referral to Occupational Health for support where necessary. The
       University Enabling Services run PGR Conversation Groups for students who would like
       the opportunity to talk with peers in a supportive and neutral space about issues which
       concern them. The Faculty runs popular staff wellbeing sessions led by a counsellor.
    7. Complementing the PDA for ECRs, we have set up a Faculty network for clinical
       academics and a BAME females staff support group.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 The annual research income for UoA1 has continued the pattern of increase seen in the
 previous REF period from £25.4M in 2013-14 to £30.1M in 2019-20. Total income over the
 seven years was £190.2M (annual average of £27.2M compared to £20.8M for REF 2014)
 (Figure 5).




   Figure 5: The annual UoA1 research income has steadily risen throughout the current and
      previous REF periods 2008/09-2019/20 (change in accounting standard in 2015-16)

                                                                                         Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Of 2020 grant applications in the REF period, 803 (32.9%) were successful. In addition, the
 UoA1 benefited from £36.4M income-in kind (£0.2M UKRI, £36.2M NIHR) representing the
 benefit of the NIHR BRU/BRC, the NIHR CRF and NIHR/CRUK ECMC over the period. In
 addition, the Faculty invested £25.8M to build the Southampton CCI funded through
 philanthropic donations and £4.5M from the Solent Local Economic Partnership and raised
 additional funds (£1.6M) to support equipment, PhD studentships, recruitment of international
 research staff (Ober, S Ward), and hosting interdisciplinary research sabbaticals.
 During the assessment period UoA1 researchers in the Faculty were awarded 803 grants
 worth £159.2M with a research income (i.e., research spend) of £190.2M (£151K/FTE/year).
 As shown in Figure 6, UKRI income (£43.9M) comprises 23% of our portfolio, with awards
 from MRC, BBSRC, EPSRC, ESRC and NERC reflecting our prioritisation and support for
 interdisciplinary research (§3.4.1).




                             Figure 6 Sources of research income
 For example, UoA1 researchers contributed to the successful award to UoS of the £4.1M
 BBSRC NBIC (Faust), the £7.3M EPSRC Trusted Autonomous Systems Hub (Eccles) and an
 EPSRC Transformative Healthcare 2050 award (Oreffo, £1.9M) developing novel imaging
 methods. Dawson was awarded an EPSRC fellowship in biomedical engineering (£1.0M) and

                                                                                         Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Read contributed to a £1.0M EPSRC award developing Raman spectroscopy for diagnosis of
 infectious disease. The majority of UKRI awards came from the MRC (59%). In 2020, the MRC
 LEU was renewed for its next quinquennium as the MRC Life Course Epidemiology Centre
 (Director C Cooper; £8.5M) building on four decades of MRC intramural funding. Other MRC
 awards included a Clinician Scientist award (£1.0M) to H Lee in vision science; a NIRG
 (£0.8M) to Mansour in infectious disease immunology; Read, I Clarke, Faust (£1.5M) for
 experimental human challenge; and Oreffo, Evans £0.7M from the UK Regenerative Medicine
 Platform.
 We have been particularly successful in winning UK Charity income (£67.5M, 35%). The
 CRUK Centre was successfully renewed (Director Johnson, 2017-2022 £3.9M) together with
 a non-clinical training award (£2.1M). Other significant awards from CRUK include £3.5M for
 the CRUK Clinical Trials Centre (Griffiths); Programme grants to Cragg (£2.2M), S Ward
 (£2.1M and £3.2M from Wellcome Trust); Elliot (£1.8M); Packham £1.5M; and Glennie
 £0.7M; Clinician Scientist Awards to Lim (£1.6M) and Underwood (£1.4M), and Accelerator
 Awards to Johnson (£2.1M) and Forconi (£1.8M).
 Complementing the renewed focus of the MRC LEU on musculoskeletal disease, since 2014
 the LEU has hosted the Versus Arthritis MRC National Centre of Excellence for
 Musculoskeletal Health and Work, renewed in 2019 for another quinquennium (£1.1M).
 Other major charity funders include the Wellcome Trust with a collaborative award to Lotery
 (£1.4M) in vision science, Schnieder (UoA12) with Thomas and Lackie (£1.1M) on microCT
 for histology and a Sir Henry Dale Fellowship to Polak (£0.8M), and the BHF with Hanson
 (£1.1M) in developmental epigenetics.
 NIHR open competition (£21.1M) represents 11% of research income, demonstrating the
 strength of the Faculty in translational research. Over the REF period UoA1 staff contributed to
 the award of the NIHR ARC Wessex (£6.0M, Parkes, H Roberts, Wilkinson), the NIHR
 Southampton BRC (Read, Godfrey, Djukanovic, Temple, Yardley (UoA4)) (£21.8M NIHR
 income in-kind for Respiratory BRU, Nutrition BRC and renewed BRC over the REF period)
 and the NIHR Southampton CRF (Faust, Edwards) (£15.2M NIHR income in-kind). Further
 support for translational medicine was provided by the renewal (2017-2022) of the NIHR
 CRUK Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre (Williams, A Davies, £1.1M over the REF
 period). In the REF period we were awarded two NIHR Professorships with Baralle in genomic
 medicine (£1.9M) and McGrath in global health (£2.0M).
 In addition, the Faculty received £21.9M (11.5%) of its research income in partnership with
 industry (§4.3.2).
 With respect to ED&I, Faculty research income by head count was 3.6x greater for men than
 women in 2013-14, reducing to 2.5x in 2019-20. Actions to address the gender gap have
 included better attribution of Co-I contributions and targeted mentoring of female academic
 staff.

 3.2 Research Support
 The Faculty research support team comprises a senior manager, two support officers and a
 publications specialist, working daily with the Associate Deans Research and Enterprise and
 RIS (§REF5a 1.5). All stages of the research project lifecycle are supported including horizon
 scanning and influencing calls; targeting calls to key investigators; providing bid support
 (assessing eligibility, generic statements, impact statements, engaging with University and
 NHS ethics); internal peer review, mock interviews for fellowships; and project-managing multi-
 Faculty bids. Research management tools allow monitoring of applications and success rates


                                                                                           Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for individual investigators allowing better response to needs e.g., providing externally run
 grant-writing workshops targeted to first time applicants, or those with lower-than-expected
 success rates.
 The Faculty Research Management Committee allocates awards of up to £15k to pump-prime
 ECRs and inter-Faculty collaborations, or as contributions to multi-user equipment bids. Since
 2014 we have made 77 awards, totalling £488k. This has yielded preliminary data supporting
 new applications to external funders, and initiated collaborations, mostly across Faculties. A
 second scheme, launched in 2010, provided research expenses for Academic Clinical Fellows
 and made 14 awards totalling £125k pump-priming development of Clinical Research Training
 Fellowship applications.
 3.2.1 Internal and Cross-Institutional dissemination of Research
 Weekly seminars in the Schools, the MRC LEU and the BRC, of internal and external speakers,
 timetabled not to clash, are well attended thanks to strong cross cutting themes. These are
 reinforced with specific events such as the annual conferences of the Wessex Immunology
 Group; the cross institutional bioinformatics and next generation sequencing group (BiOMICS)
 bi-monthly meetings and annual conference; the cross-institutional Southampton Neuroscience
 Group seminars and annual meeting; and global and themed interdisciplinary networking events
 led by the IfLS. The Faculty annual research conference offers PGRs, academic clinical fellows,
 ECRs and their interdisciplinary collaborators in other Faculties opportunities to present their
 work. The Doctoral College also runs an annual research showcase providing opportunities for
 PGRs to present their research to the whole University community.

 3.3 Facilities
 3.3.1 Translational Medicine Facilities
 Southampton Centre for Biomedical Research: the SCBR supports experimental medicine,
 clinical research and trials. Centred around a five-storey complex of clinical and laboratory
 space for translational research, it includes the CRF, BRC and WISH laboratory and also
 hosts UHS R&D.
 The NIHR Southampton Biomedical Research Centre is a 5 year (2017-2022) £14.5M NIHR
 investment in experimental medicine infrastructure. The annualised funding consistently gears
 a 9-fold capture of external research funding. The CRF (Faust, Edwards) delivers over 250
 phase I and II and complex phase III trials and has MHRA phase I accreditation. The facility
 fully integrates 2000m2 of trial infrastructure into UHS, offering early phase facilities and first-
 in-man expertise rapid feasibility and start-up, with in-house trial support, full integration into
 the hospital high dependency ward and overnight-stay capable adult and dedicated paediatric
 wards. Facilities include bronchoscopy, endoscopy and metabolic study suites, and quality
 assured processing and analytical laboratories for accurate phenotyping of complex patient
 groups. The CRF also incorporates a treatment room with clean-room ventilation (e.g. for
 intraocular injections/sampling and skin biopsies), an environmental laboratory with CL2
 containment hoods for sputum induction or nebulised drugs delivery. To allow phenotypic
 assessment the CRF incorporates a micro-CT scanner for measurement of bone
 microarchitecture; body composition equipment (calorimeters, bio-impedance monitoring);
 cardiopulmonary exercise testing equipment; tissue plethysmography; microcirculatory
 imaging; high-resolution ultrasound (to allow US-guided synovial biopsy for musculoskeletal
 studies and disease stratification biopsies in cancer trials); and a dedicated research dual
 energy X-ray scanning (DXA/DEXA).




                                                                                               Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Wessex Investigational Sciences Hub (WISH) laboratory: The WISH laboratory was
 established as part of the SCBR to provide a fully quality-assured laboratory for discovery
 science/novel assay development within clinical trials in immunology, genomics, microbiology
 and nutrition. It hosts the ECMC, the Wessex NHS Genomic Medicine Centre and the Faculty
 genomics core including liquid handling robots, next generation sequencing and laser
 dissection/single cell sequencing. Immunometric analysis for pharma CTIMP trials is
 supported by a FACS Canto II and Aria (3L) cell sorter, Luminex multi-plex analyte analysis
 and ELISA/ELISPOT.
 Patient and Public Involvement (PPI): PPI support is available for UoA1 researchers from all
 stages from inception to publication, including developing new research questions, improving
 study processes and materials, interpreting findings, and shaping final reports and
 dissemination. Comprising nine founding member organisations, the Wessex Public
 Involvement Network is a regional group of staff and PPI contributors working within NIHR
 organisations across Wessex including the BRC, CRF and ARC and the RDS. The group aims
 to establish the area as a beacon of best practice in PPI, impacting positively on the reach,
 relevance, and refinement of applied health research. Additional support for PPI activities and
 for achieving impact through public engagement (e.g., ICS01-03) is provided by LifeLab.
 Southampton Clinical Trials Unit (SCTU): the SCTU is UKCRC registered with expertise in the
 design, conduct and analysis of multicentre clinical trials and other well-designed studies.
 Supported by core awards from both NIHR and CRUK, since August 2013 the SCTU received
 more than £17M in clinical trial research grants, has recruited over 10,000 patients into its UK
 and international clinical trials, coordinated over 80 studies, and has driven major advances in
 a number of disease areas including urology, breast, and gastro-intestinal cancer, and
 lymphoma (ICS01-08 and ICS01-10).
 Research Design Service (RDS): The Faculty hosts the NIHR RDS South Central (Director
 Reading) providing research design and methodological support to health and social care
 researchers. RDS staff contribute to research training for UoA1 staff and provide annual NIHR
 focussed grant application workshops.
 Health Economics: The Faculty hosts the Southampton Health Technology Assessment
 Centre within the Wessex Institute. SHTAC has extensive expertise in evidence synthesis and
 meta-analysis and health economic analysis and is available to support UoA1 researchers.
 Research Imaging: A joint UoS-UHS Research Imaging Management Group supports clinical
 imaging for research (chair Galea). Facilities include 4 high-resolution multi-detector
 Computed Tomography scanners and 6 Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scanners. UoS
 forward pays for 25% of imaging time on the most advanced MRI scanner (Skyra 3 Tesla,
 Siemens) to ring-fence research time, guaranteeing that MR scanning availability is always
 immediately available, especially for research studies recruiting acute patients. Additional
 imaging modalities available for research include:
    •   Two SPECT-CT systems, capable of both diagnostic and molecular radiotherapy work.
    •   Ultrasound - with ultra-high resolution high frequency, compound imaging capability,
        Doppler enabled scanners with a full array of transducers.
 Imaging researchers can have their MR images pushed from the scanner to a server (and a
 mirror site) hosting XNAT (Extensible Neuroimaging Archive Toolkit), an imaging informatics
 platform, providing local archiving and the means to share anonymised imaging data. A MR
 imaging pump-priming research project scheme is run by the Research Management
 Committee.

                                                                                           Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.3.2 Biomedical Facilities
 The UoS/UHS partnership benefits from its shared facilities on a single site. The SCBR, CTU,
 Sir Henry Wellcome Laboratories, Cancer Sciences Building, Institute of Developmental
 Sciences, MRC LEU and Biomedical Research Facility are all located on the University
 Hospital campus. In the REF period, the Faculty opened the Southampton CCI (§1.2.1),
 investing £25.4M in providing 4190m2 of state-of-the-art laboratory space including space to
 host researchers from other disciplines as part of its interdisciplinary residency programme.
 The Faculty hosts a number of core facilities open to Faculty, wider UoS and external
 customers to ensure sustainability and generation of impact:
 Biomedical Research Facility (BRF): The BRF supports a range of activities including
 quarantine/re-derivation via embryo transfer for small animals, breeding for small animals and
 dedicated large and small animal surgical suites complete with pre- and post-operative area, in
 vivo imaging (fluorescence and micro-CT), vision-science laboratory, behavioural labs and
 containment Level 2 suites. The BRF has been enhanced in the REF period with the
 construction of a new pre-clinical unit as part of the CCI development.
 Biomedical Imaging: The Biomedical Imaging Unit (BIU) is a joint UoS-UHS facility for
 research and diagnostic microscopy. BIU staff provide a complete supporting workflow for all
 types of imaging from experimental design, proof of concept tests, user training, sample
 preparation, imaging, processing and analysis of specimens. The unit houses microscopes
 capable of 2-, 3- and 4D imaging, from brightfield microscopy through to confocal, light sheet,
 time-lapse, virtual scanning, micro-focused x-ray computed tomography (μCT), scanning
 electron microscopy (SEM), transmission electron microscopy (including electron tomography
 & x-ray microanalysis) and serial block face SEM. The BIU also supports the in vivo imaging in
 the BRF. The total capital investment in new and improved imaging modalities in the
 assessment period has been £2.2M funded from the NHS, Alzheimer’s UK, BBSRC and Nikon
 UK.
 Flow Cytometry (FACS) Core Facility: supporting the immunology research platform is a
 Faculty FACS facility including 18 instruments including dedicated FACS sorting supported by
 core technical staff.
 Histochemistry Research Unit (HRU): The HRU offers a range of histological services to
 support research in the Faculty, wider UoS and external academic and commercial
 organisations. The Unit supports processing of cells and tissue samples into a range of
 mediums including frozen, paraffin and resin for subsequent sectioning and staining by a
 variety of techniques including tinctorial staining and immunohistochemistry. Also available to
 users are an Axioskop combined light/fluorescence microscope linked to Zeiss KS400 image
 analysis software, and a laser microdissection microscope.
 Mass Spectrometry and Lipidomics: The BRC Mass Spectrometry (MS) Unit is focused on
 lipidomic and targeted metabolomic phenotyping for clinical translational studies, including use
 of stable isotopes to monitor metabolic flux. Techniques available include direct infusion
 lipidomics by triple quadrupole MS, supercritical fluid UPC2/TQMS for metabolomics, ion
 mobility quadrupole time of flight MS for detailed structural analysis and high mass accuracy
 MS for elemental composition. Additional techniques include MALDI and DESI MS imaging,
 online breath analysis by SIFT MS, analysis of stable isotopes by isotope ratio MS and
 membrane inlet MS for volatile low mass molecules. UoA1 researchers also benefit from the
 Centre for Proteomic Research (CPR), housed within a custom-built laboratory located within
 the Life Sciences Building on the University’s Highfield campus, providing proteomic expertise
 and instrumentation.


                                                                                           Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Tissue Bank: The Faculty tissue bank is licenced by the Human Tissue Authority and functions
 as a bridge between UHS and the University supporting 37 research projects, 3 national
 collections (breast and pancreatic cancers and mesothelioma), an international project which
 makes derived cell lines globally available, and commercial studies. The bank currently stores
 approximately 200,000 samples and over the last 10 years released ~35,000 samples to
 researchers. It is complemented by the NIHR Southampton Research Biorepository in the
 CRF.
 High Performance Computing and Data Science: The Faculty supports data science via the
 NIHR Southampton BRC data science cross cutting theme, hosted by the Clinical Informatics
 Research Unit, which provides bio- and clinical-informatic core support to Faculty researchers.
 This includes:
     •   Advanced data analysis, data extraction, cleaning, transformation and validation from
         clinical records.
    •    Feasibility investigation support (cohort estimation from hospital data and from national
         HES data, NHS Digital data exploration).
    •    Genomic data hosting in original file format and processed genomic data hosting (SQL)
         such as genotype, transcriptomic, metabolomics, proteomics and metagenomic.
 The University’s high performance fifth generation cluster system, Iridis, one of the largest
 computational facilities in the UK, is available at no cost to researchers (§REF5a 4.2).
 To accelerate the impact of digital technologies on public health, clinical diagnostics, self-
 health management and prevention, researchers in UoA1 (Lucassen, MacArthur) have been
 fundamental to the development of a new Coalition for Innovation and Digital Health Research
 (CIDHR) partnership between UoS, Wessex AHSN, UHS, Hampshire & Isle of Wight STP and
 Hampshire Hospitals NHS Trust. This capitalises on UoS expertise in computer science, led
 by the WSI and Southampton IT Innovation Centre (Boniface) and will lead in interdisciplinary
 digital innovation for the benefit of health care.
 Further support for data science is provided via the University’s membership of the Turing
 Institute, giving access to networking opportunities, secondments, internships and project
 funding. The Faculty has two current Turing fellows including MacArthur who is seconded 0.5
 FTE to the Turing as Deputy Programme Director for Health and Medical Sciences. The WSI
 also provides research stimulus funds and access to an EPSRC DTC in Web Science.

 3.4 University support for Interdisciplinary Research
 UoS has a longstanding commitment to interdisciplinary research, maintaining low barriers
 between Faculties (§REF5a 2.6). To foster new and support existing cross disciplinary
 research, UoS has four University Strategic Interdisciplinary Research Institutes (USIRIs):
 Institute for Life Sciences; Southampton Marine and Maritime Institute; Web Science Institute;
 and Zepler Institute. These provide support for UoA1 researchers to draw upon the wide
 disciplinary expertise across the University to apply to medical research questions.
 3.4.1 Interdisciplinary research in the Life Sciences
 As highlighted in §1.4, the IfLS (director Smith (UoA5)) facilitates research collaborations
 between clinical medicine and other disciplines, offering pump-priming awards and PhD
 studentships for new collaborations that span disciplinary boundaries and a varied programme
 of conferences, seminars, workshops and poster sessions providing new environments for
 researchers to explore novel approaches to existing research. Examples of IfLS-initiated
 interdisciplinary collaborations include in respiratory disease: D Davies, Swindle and Blume

                                                                                             Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in collaboration with Morgan (UoA12) have developed Lung on Chip for predictive models of
 the airway epithelial barrier (NC3Rs, EPSRC, MRC and GSK). Djukanovic and Brodzki
 (UoA10) led an EPSRC-funded programme to develop topological data analysis for high
 dimensional imaging) and biological data for stratified medicine in severe asthma and COPD.
 Lackie and Warner with Schneider (UoA12) have developed methodologies for routine X-ray
 µCT for non-destructive 3D histology in partnership with Nikon. In cancer, Faculty researchers
 benefit from collaborative working with the UK National Crystallography Service in Chemistry
 (Cragg, Mansour with Tews (UoA5)). The IfLS facilitated FortisNet collaboration (Oreffo,
 Harvey, C Cooper, Adams (UoA3)) has brought together one of the largest interdisciplinary
 groups of clinical, academic and industrial partners nationwide addressing musculoskeletal
 health from molecule to population.
 We have developed strong research programmes in the use of microfluidics for solving
 research problems e.g. real-time monitoring of bronchial epithelial resistance and engineering
 multi-layered tissue constructs using acoustic levitation to develop models for respiratory
 research (Swindle, Blume, D Davies with Morgan, Hill (UoA12)), development of novel
 microfluidic platforms to enable single cell sequencing (J West, Polak and Rose-Zerilli) and
 to assess discretely organized neuronal connections (J West with Deinhardt (UoA5)). We
 have also developed a range of collaborations for point-of-care detection of infection including
 ophthalmic (Hossain with Daniels (UoA12)) and respiratory applications (Clark, Elkington,
 McCormick, Read, with Wilkinson and Eason (UoA12)) including LFD viral antigen testing for
 SARS-CoV-2. Further translation is enabled by the support which the CRF and the CTU
 provide to engineers for device trials, and an NIHR award to develop an AMR laboratory to
 trial novel engineering solutions for antimicrobial resistance.
 Researchers in UoA1 participate in the University-wide Computational Modelling Group,
 enabling development of mathematical models of biological process such as antigen
 prestation (Elliot with Dalchau (Microsoft Research)), placental amino acid transport (Lewis
 with Sengers (UoA 12)), and applications of machine learning to estimating gene pathogenicity
 in Next-Generation Sequencing data and understanding of stem cell pluripotency (Ennis,
 MacArthur). In stem cells and regenerative medicine Oreffo, Dawson and Evans have
 pioneered and patented protected innovative nanoclay and biomaterial strategies to deliver
 stem cells and growth factors to augment bone formation and wound repair, leading to
 formation of Renovos Biologics in 2017 (ICS01-01).
 In the social sciences, Lucassen contributes to the Centre for Health Ethics and Law at
 Southampton Law School undertaking research into consent and genetic data (Wellcome
 Trust, £0.5M), and McGrath (joint appointment with Social, Economic and Political Sciences)
 is developing intervention based on couples counselling for HIV prevention in Sub-Saharan
 Africa (NIHR Global Health Professorship). Loxham (BBSRC Future Leader Fellow in
 Respiratory Biology and Air Pollution Toxicology; ICS01-06) is developing methods of real-
 time pollution particulate monitoring in collaboration with the Southampton Marine and
 Maritime Institute. In Microbial Science there is extensive collaboration with physical scientists
 (Leighton, Morgan, Eason, Wilkinson, Mahajan, Niu (UoA12)) and basic microbiological
 scientists (Webb, Keevil (UoA5)) across the University. In recognition of this interdisciplinary
 research Leighton was elected to Fellowship of the Academy of Medical Sciences. Medicine
 investigators (Read, Faust, Clark, Hossain, Elkington) contribute to the National Biofilm
 Innovation Centre and the Network for Antimicrobial Resistance and Infection Prevention, and
 with the Zepler Institute for Photonics. UoS spinouts arising from UoA12, Highfield Diagnostics
 and Sloane Water Technologies, are developing novel sensing devices for point of care



                                                                                             Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 diagnosis and methods for wound cleaning respectively in collaboration with UoA1
 researchers.
 Further support for interdisciplinary research impact is provided by the Faculty’s MRC
 Confidence in Concept awards that provide support for interdisciplinary projects, prioritising
 translation of underpinning technologies from the physical sciences, engineering and
 mathematical sciences into medical and health applications. This award, together with
 leverage and co-funding from other sources (e.g., EPSRC, ESRC & STFC IAAs and our IfLS
 Stimulus fund) enables the acceleration of technologies further and faster along the translation
 pathway. The Faculty together with UHS runs annual “Clinicians Meet Engineers” events,
 facilitated sessions designed to bring clinicians and engineers together to solve pressing
 health-related issues.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Research in clinical medicine at the University makes a considerable contribution to the
 national research base. Not only through our direct research activity but also through
 significant partnerships with the NHS, local and national government, research funders
 and industry and internationally through extensive research collaboration.

 4.1 Collaboration
 The Faculty has extensive collaborations locally, nationally and internationally to support
 its research. We have strong links across the Wessex region. The Wessex ARC includes
 partners from 15 commissioning groups, 11 NHS Trusts and 3 other Universities. We are
 a founding partner of the Wessex AHSN and Parkes leads the Wessex School of Public
 Health working closely with Local Authority public health teams as part of the Wessex
 Public Health Network - NHS South of England. In 2020 the Faculty engaged with
 Southampton City Council to deliver a DHSC funded COVID-19 asymptomatic saliva
 screening programme to frontline council workers and local schools (lead Godfrey).
 We collaborate extensively with other institutions. Across the REF period 58% (cf. 55% in
 2014) of our publications have co-authors at international institutions and this proportion is
 rising, reaching 59% in 2020 (Scopus, August 2020). In total our co-authorships are
 drawn from 5289 institutions including 205 companies and 163 governmental
 organisations, an indicator of our commitment to co-producing research with end-users.
 Our co-authors are based at 87 of the top 100 Universities in the 2020 QS World
 University Rankings, with the 5 highest number of co-authorships with UK institutions at
 Oxford, UCL, Imperial College, Manchester and Cambridge, and the top five international
 partners comprising the University of Witwatersrand (South Africa); Yong Loo Lin School
 of Medicine, Institute for Clinical Sciences and KK Women's and Children's Hospital
 (Singapore); and Erasmus MC (The Netherlands). As the host institution for the Centre of
 Excellence for Musculoskeletal Health and Work we partner with Aberdeen, Lancaster,
 Liverpool, Oxford, Manchester, Salford, Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation
 Trust and Imperial College, London. The MRC LEU is part of the Cohort and Longitudinal
 Studies Enhancement Resources (CLOSER) consortium of longitudinal cohort studies. In
 PGR development Our MRC DTP programme is jointly held with QMUL and with the
 School of Biological Sciences (UoA5) lead the BBSRC SoCoBio DTP with Kent,
 Portsmouth, and Sussex.




                                                                                             Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.2 Contributions to the research base
 4.2.1 Strategic partnerships
 The Faculty’s major partnership is with UHS. Of the 193 staff returned in UoA1, 72 have
 joint contracts with UHS and deliver clinical service. As described in Section 3, UHS hosts
 significant NIHR-funded research infrastructure that is led by UoA1 staff, including the
 BRC, CRF, and ECMC. In addition, UoA1 staff Peveler (retired) and Faust were Clinical
 Directors of the Wessex CRN in the REF period, and Faust served as Associate Medical
 Director for Research and Development at UHS (now Kipps (Cat C) since 2020). In
 addition, there are 16 category C staff in UHS with honorary Associate Professor/
 Professor titles with significant research collaborations with the Faculty. We also have
 strategic partnerships with the CRUK, MRC, NIHR and Versus Arthritis via our five hosted
 research centres (§1.1).
 4.2.2 Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base
 Research councils: UoA1 members contributed (i.e., advisory roles, panel
 memberships, etc., not merely reviewing) to the work of research councils, and a wide
 range of other funding bodies in the UK and overseas:
    •   BBSRC: Research Committee Members (Burdge, Evans, Lewis, Sethi)
    •   Commonwealth Scholarships Commission: (McGrath Commissioner)
    •   International: World Cancer Research Fund (Copson), Qatar National Research Fund
        (Burdge), Invision (Self), NIH: NIAID and NHLBI (Arshad), French National Research
        Agency (Sethi), Swiss National Science Foundation (Lucas), Research Council of
        Norway (Beers, Eccles), US Alzheimer’s Association (Boche), Health Research Board
        Ireland (Byrne), World Cancer Research Fund (Copson), Academy of Finland (Ennis),
        Public Health Foundation of India (Fall), EU Horizon 2020 (Evans)
    •   Medical Research Charities: British Heart Foundation (C Cooper, Chair Project Grants
        Committee), Wellcome (Underwood, Elliot, Packham, Fall), CRUK ( Al-Shamkhani, A
        Davies, Crabb, Eccles, Elliot, Lim, Williams), Versus Arthritis (Willaime-Morawek),
        The Academy of Medical Sciences (D Davies, Elliot), Prostate Cancer UK (Cragg),
        Retina UK (Self), Asthma UK (Lucas), Solving Kids' Cancer (Gray), British Skin
        Foundation (Polak) Breast Cancer Now (Blaydes), Alzheimer’s Research (Boche),
        National Osteoporosis Society (Dennison), Crohn’s in Childhood Research Association
        (Ennis), SPARKS for Children’s Health (Ennis), Fight for Sight (Lotery).
    •   MRC: Clinical Training and Career Development Panel (Khakoo, Primrose), Non-
        clinical Training and Career Development Panel (Newell), Experimental Medicine Panel
        (Wilkinson), Antimicrobial Resistance Panel (Read), Chair, Clinical Academic Research
        Partnership Panel (Eccles), Chair, Nutrition Research Partnership Collaborative Awards
        Panel, Multimorbidity Panel (Inskip), Deputy Chair, Population and Systems Medicine
        Board (Inskip), Chair, Population Health Sciences Research Network and Population
        Health Science Research Group (C Cooper), Infection and Immunity Board (Sean Lim).
    •   NC3Rs: CRACK-it panel (Thomas), Scientific Committee, CRACK-it panel (Ratnayaka)
    •   NIHR: Senior Fellowship panel member (Thomas), Chair Postdoctoral Fellowships
        panel (Read), RfPB (Inskip, Arshad, Harvey, H Roberts), Global Effort on COVID-19
        College of Experts (JW Holloway, Elkington), Advanced fellowships, Integrated
        Academic Training (Baralle), NIHR Pandemic Influenza Studies (Clark).


                                                                                          Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   NERC: Member of Council, Clean Air Programme Steering Committee (Holgate).
    •   Royal Society: Future Leaders – African Independent Research Fellowships (McGrath).
    •   UKRI: Future Leader Fellowship (Newell, Primrose, Calder).
    •   REF: Members of REF 2021 Main Panel A (Eccles, C Cooper).
 Journal Editorships: 78 staff sit on editorial boards of at least one indexed journal,
 including 32 holding a significant editorial roles including Editor in Chief: Exploration of
 targeted anti-tumour therapy (Packham), Clinical and Experimental Allergy (G Roberts),
 Diabetic Medicine (Holt), Lipids (Burdge), Immunotherapy Advances (Elliot), Current
 Opinion in Infections Diseases and Journal of Infection (Read), Perioperative Medicine
 (Grocott), Extreme Physiology and Medicine (Grocott), Eye (Lotery).
 Learned Societies and Other Professional Organizations: Staff of all levels offer
 disciplinary leadership through contributions to learned societies and major (social)
 scientific organisations including:
 American Society for Bone and Mineral Research Council (K Ward)
 British Society for Allergy and Clinical Immunology Council (Arshad, JA Holloway)
 Chair of the British Society for Genetic Medicine, Member of the Nuffield Council of
 Bioethics (Lucassen)
 Chair, British Society for Investigative Dermatology. President, British Society for Medical
 Dermatology (Ardern-Jones)
 Chair, Education, Public Engagement & Policy Committee Physiological Society (Green)
 Chair, European Respiratory Society Scientific Committee (Djukanovic)
 Director, InVIVO Planetary Health Society (JW Holloway)
 Member International Advisory Board, Commonwealth Centre for Digital Health
 (Batchelor)
 President-Elect, British Society for Allergy and Clinical Immunology (G Roberts)
 President, Association of Surgeons of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (Primrose)
 President, European Society for Chlamydia Research (I Clarke)
 President, Federation of European Nutrition Societies (Calder)
 President, International Osteoporosis Foundation (C Cooper)
 President, Society for Social Medicine and Population Health (Inskip)
 Royal College of Anaesthetists Council (Grocott)
 Treasurer, British Society for Investigative Dermatology (Polak)
 Treasurer, Clinical Genetics Society (Baralle)
 Treasurer, International Society for Developmental Origins of Health and Disease
 (Godfrey).




                                                                                            Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.2.3 Academic Recognition
 Major honours bestowed on staff 2014-2020 include:
 Alwan: MBE for services to Medicine during the COVID-19 response and named on the
 BBC Top 100 women list 2020 for her advocacy on "long-COVID".
 C Cooper: OBE for services to medical research. International Osteoporosis Foundation
 Pierre Delmas Award and Olof Johnell Medal.
 Cross: International Chronic Myeloid Leukemia foundation Rowley Prize (2018)
 D Davies, Elliot, Godfrey, Johnson, Primrose of Fellowship of the Academy of Medical
 Sciences (joining C Cooper, Holgate and Stevenson)
 D Davies, Djukanovic, Holgate, Wilkinson: Fellowship of the European Respiratory
 Society
 Elkington: MBE for services to Medicine particularly during COVID-19
 Godfrey: MBE for services to Medicine during the COVID-19 response
 Holgate: KBE for services to Medical Research, Fellow of the Royal Society of Biology,
 Presidents Medal for Outstanding Service Royal College of Physicians, World Allergy
 Organisation Lifetime Achievement Award, RCP Faculty of Public Health Bazalgette
 Professorship, J. Allyn Taylor International Prize in Medicine
 Oreffo: Fellow of the Royal Society of Biology, Fellow of International Orthopaedic
 Research
 Stevenson: Jean Bernard Lifetime Achievement award European Haematology
 Association, Henry M Stratton medal American Society of Hematology, Lifetime
 Achievement Award British Society of Haematology, Rai-Binet Medal International
 Workshop on Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
 The Faculty has one Emeritus (C Cooper) and six current NIHR Senior investigators
 (Lotery, Primrose, Grocott, Read, Faust, Godfrey) returned in UoA1.
 C Cooper and Calder were Clarivate Highly Cited Researchers in 2020.

 4.3. Broader Contributions to the Economy and Society
 In addition to our ICS, substantial economic and societal impact has been derived across
 a broad base of UoA1 research and enterprise activity.
 4.3.1 Enterprise Units supporting the research base
 The Faculty hosts two significant Enterprise Units, both of which have considerable
 impact in the national and international health research landscape. The Wessex Institute
 exists to make a difference to society through research and the way it is prioritised,
 funded, managed, disseminated and used. It has built extensive UK health and care
 research knowledge and know-how in the commissioning and management of research
 and research infrastructure for the UK government and other clients. The institute’s
 expertise covers:
    •   engagement of research users and producers;
    •   public and patient involvement and engagement;
    •   adding value in research; commissioning and monitoring research;


                                                                                            Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       •    communications and dissemination of research findings; and
       •    measuring and improving research impact.
 It hosts internationally recognised centres including NETSCC and SHTAC alongside the
 Health and Care Research Wales funding schemes and consultancy activity. These
 generated revenue of £110M in the assessment period. NETSCC is one of the main NIHR
 coordinating centres with responsibility for managing research funding spend of about
 £150M annually on behalf of the Department of Health and Social Care.
 The Clinical Informatics Research Unit’s revenue in the assessment period totalled
 £9.3M. The Edge Platform supports research governance and clinical monitoring of over
 90% of the NHS, managing ~100,000 research projects and over 5.5 million patients. The
 platform has been adopted internationally, including New Zealand, Canada, Belgium and
 South Africa. Globally, CIRU is working across South America, Africa and Asia capacity
 building in digital health strategies as well as implementation research in scaling
 telemedicine platforms.
 4.3.2 Collaborative research with industry
 The Faculty has extensive collaborations with industry across all its research themes.
 This include significant partnerships in respiratory disease and immunology including with
 Novartis (Djukanovic, £2.0M), GSK (Wilkinson, £0.9M, Polak £0.3M), Unilever (Ardern-
 Jones £0.6M) and AstraZeneca (Wilkinson, £1.5M); in infectious disease with Pfizer (S
 Clarke £1.3M); in cancer immunology with GSK (Cragg £0.7M), and AstraZeneca (Crabb
 £0.3M) in addition to £5.4m in cancer clinical trial support to the CTU (Griffiths); and in
 population science and nutrition with Nestec (Godfrey £4.7M), Benevolent AI (Godfrey
 £1.4M), Pronova BioPharma (Calder £0.3M), and Nestle (Godfrey £0.5M).
 The EpiGen consortium (MRC LEU, Liggins Institute of the University of Auckland,
 Auckland UniServices Ltd, Singapore Institute of Clinical Sciences, and National
 University of Singapore) undertakes research to advance understanding of the
 developmental and environmental processes that influence health through the lifecourse.
 Partnering with industry, EpiGen has begun to collaborate with skilled computational
 modellers to apply artificial intelligence approaches to ‘big data’ and using cohort biopsies
 as a model system to assess therapeutics. Based on patents filed, the consortium has
 gained seed-funding through large contracts (>£38M to date) with major industry partners
 including Nestec, Abbott Nutrition, Danone and BenevolentAI Bio. UoS has made
 substantial contributions to this collaboration, with its investigators inventors on 4 patent
 families, including epigenetic prediction of phenotype, predictive use of CpG methylation,
 and vitamin B6 in maternal administration for the prevention of overweight or obesity in
 the offspring.
 4.3.3 Intellectual property and spinouts
 Since 2014, UoS has filed 119 patent applications, where at least one inventor is from the
 Faculty of Medicine. Currently, there are 83 active cases – either pending applications or
 granted patents representing 28 unique technologies. Our FWm initiative and the iCURE
 program (§1.3.1) supported UoA1 staff to launch 4 spinouts which have 9 patents filed
 and have collectively received £10M in investment.
   •       Renovos (co-founders Oreffo, Dawson) is an orthopaedic regenerative medicine
           company, spun out in 2017 developing a series of injectable nanoclay matrices for
           drug delivery with a range of therapeutic applications. Renovos has raised £840k in
           equity and grant funding to date including, in Jan 2020, an award of £140k by one of

                                                                                             Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       the very first charity investments in the UK through Orthopaedic Research UK
       (ICS01-01).
   •   Kargenera (Khakoo) is designed to bring a first-in-class therapeutic to target
       natural killer cells to the clinic. The work is based on investigating how natural killer
       cells target viral infections and cancer arising from MRC and CRUK awards that has
       led to design and pre-clinical development of a novel first-in-class NK cell
       therapeutic with encouraging results in a number of different tumour models. The
       company is underpinned by three patent applications by UoS.
   •   Vivoplex (Cheong and Morgan (UoA12)) is developing an intra-Uterine device that
       provides real time and accurate intra-uterine monitoring with applications in fertility.
       Vivoplex raised £3.9M in Clinical Stage funding in 2020.
   •   Trimuinicor (H Clark (leaver)) is focused on finding solutions to combat neonatal
       chronic lung disease through development of natural anti-inflammatory and anti-
       microbial protein surfactant, protein D for a broad range of anti-inflammatory lung
       diseases (MRC DPFS funded clinical trial).
   •   Gyroscope is developing gene therapies for the treatment of eye diseases linked to
       an unbalanced complement system of which Lotery was an academic founder in
       2017. In addition to the use of bevacizumab for wet-AMD treatment (ICS01-09),
       Supported by Gyroscope Therapeutics, Lotery identified patients with rare genetic
       variants causing dry AMD, leading to the first dry AMD patients being treated with
       gene therapy, that then entered in Phase II trials in 2019.
 4.3.4 Contribution to Clinical Guidelines and Public Policy
 Faculty staff make major contributions to development of Clinical Guidelines. The
 Southampton Health Technology Assessment Centre provides evidence reviews to NICE,
 NIHR and other commissioners. Shepherd is Co-chair of InterTASC representing the 9
 independent academic research teams who produce health technology assessments on
 behalf of NIHR and NICE. Robinson and Baird are expert advisors for the NICE Centre
 for Guidelines and Baird is Vice Chair of Public Health Advisory Committee C.
 UoA1 staff contributed to a range of NICE clinical and public health guidelines e.g.,
 respiratory (Arshad), dermatology (Ardern-Jones, Healy), antenatal care (Alwan), non-
 alcoholic fatty liver disease (Byrne), Osteoporosis (C Cooper), cancer (Crabb, Cutress,
 Gray, Primrose), infection (Faust) and kidney disease (Fraser). Many members of
 Cancer Sciences hold leadership positions in the National Cancer Research Institute
 Research Groups (Primrose, Underwood, A Davies, Crabb, Copson, Griffiths) and the
 Cellular and Molecular Pathology Initiative (Thomas). Lucassen’s work in consent and
 confidentiality has had major impact on culture and changes in clinical practice through
 the Chief Medical Officer’s annual report (2017); leading on Genome England’s clinical
 interpretation pathway for ethics and social science and designing UK professional
 guidance in the field, including GMC guidance.
 UoA1 staff serve in a wide range of other positions governmental, professional society
 and patient group positions. For example, Read is member of the UK Joint Committee for
 Vaccines and Immunisation (JCVI). Johnson was CRUK Chief Clinician (2008-2017) and
 is now National Clinical Director for Cancer at NHS England. Eccles is a member of the
 Royal College of Pathologists, the Royal College of Physicians and the British Society for
 Genetic Medicine joint committee on medical genomics. Cheong is a member of the
 RCOG scientific advisory committee. Lotery is chair of the Royal College of

                                                                                              Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Ophthalmologists’ Hydroxychloroquine Monitoring Guidelines and Genomics committees.
 Djukanovic and Holgate contributed to the Asthma UK priority setting exercise in 2019.
 Lucassen served on the Nuffield Council of Bioethics and is a Genomics England Ethics
 Advisory committee and UK Biobank Board member. Baralle leads the Global Patient
 Registry for the PURA patient foundation, and Temple and D Mackay are medical
 advisors to the Child Growth Foundation.
 We have made significant contribution to public policy. UoA1 researchers have responded
 to calls for evidence from Parliament, Government Departments and their Agencies (e.g.,
 ‘Chlamydia Screening Programme - Policy Update’, for PHE (I Clarke), ‘Early years
 healthy development review’ for DHSC (Hanson, Godfrey, Barker). We have supported
 ECRs to participate in internships/exchanges such as UKRI policy internships, Royal
 Society pairing schemes and Sense about Science's Evidence Week at Parliament (e.g.,
 Loxham; ICS01-06), The UoS Policy Fellowship Programme enabled opportunities for
 decision makers from government and industry to forge useful and lasting connections
 with researchers including Dr Mark Bale, Health Science and Bioethics, DHSC (visiting
 Clinical Ethics and Law). UoA1 researchers are also supported to publish policy briefs,
 accessible summaries of research for policy makers (e.g., “Preconception Health:
 Challenges and Opportunities” (Baird, Barker, Godfrey)) and our work on DOHaD
 informs publications such as the WHO Commission on Ending Childhood Obesity report
 and Public Health England’s “Making the Case for Preconception Care” (ICS01-03). Other
 areas in which we have influenced public policy include outdoor air pollution (ICS01-06)
 where Loxham prepared a report for Transport for London on potential health effects of
 air pollution on the London Underground and Arshad, JW Holloway and Holgate (chair)
 contributed to the RCP/RCPCH reports on the long-term effects of outdoor and indoor air
 pollution that have led to calls for “Ela’s law” after the coroner’s verdict on role of air
 pollution in the death of Ella Adoo Kissi-Debrah.
 The Faculty also hosts RESIN (RESearch INvestments study) that analyses the UK and
 global R&D landscape to provide evidence on allocation of research investment resources
 to support decision-making by research funders, governments, the World Bank, World
 Health Organisation and the UN. Specific areas of focus include global analysis of
 infectious diseases funding and funding of Blast Injury research as part of the
 International Blast Injury Network.
 4.3.5 Public engagement with Science
 The Faculty makes a strong contribution to both Public Understanding of Science and to
 Public and Patient Involvement (PPI) in research (§1.3.3). The BRC helps co-ordinate the
 Wessex Public Involvement Network and the Faculty Head of Engagement (Green) works
 closely with the University’s Public Engagement with Research unit (PERu) and the
 Health and Wellbeing Public Engagement Hub to bring together members of the
 University and Southampton communities at a range of events. Links to the local
 community are also enhanced by the Faculty’s staff volunteering scheme (Underwood).
 The Faculty is represented (Green) on the committee for Southampton’s bid for City of
 Culture 2025.
 Our staff contribute to ~16 different exhibits (including Alzheimer’s, early development,
 regenerative medicine, nutrition, climate-plants-health, cancer and skin research) at the
 Southampton Science and Engineering Festival (SOTSEF) which attracts ~8000 public
 visitors each year. The Faculty has developed a range of public engagement activities in
 partnership with the Winchester Science Centre such as the highly popular, large 3D


                                                                                             Page 35
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 pinball machine called ‘The Stem Cell Mountain’, which led to further collaborations with
 the University and a formal memorandum of understanding. The Stem Cell Mountain (and
 a touring version at UK festivals, open days and science events) has engaged >600,000
 people with ideas about how the environment can change what type of cell a stem cell
 becomes (ICS01-01).
 A key element of the Faculty’s public engagement is with young people, particularly
 adolescents, who are drivers for societal change and whose needs and values can shape
 our health-related science. Our LifeLab facility (§1.3.3, ICS01-03) was opened in 2014.
 Since then, 11,500 school pupils and 334 teachers from 72 schools have experienced
 specialised teaching sessions. In partnership with UHS and the University's Education
 School and Mathematics and Science Learning Centre, LifeLab raises teenagers'
 awareness and interest in the science underpinning health issues and makes positive
 changes to adolescent health-related attitudes. Over 160 Faculty researchers (including
 PGRs) have received public engagement training and registration as STEM ambassadors
 through LifeLab, and 200 have participated in ‘meet the scientist’ sessions.
 Other Faculty activities (Hanson, Green) foster engagement with young people and
 development of ‘youth voice’ through question time events on big topics like ‘Building
 Superhumans?’ (2017), ‘Fake Food!’ (2018) and ‘Toxic!’ (2019). Questions come from the
 public to a high-level expert panel. This is the culmination of a set of activities for Year 12
 college students that involve short science talks, hands-on laboratory experience and a
 scientist-medic mentored session. Faculty researchers also participate in UHS Hospital
 open days, Pint of Science, and other public events e.g., New Forest Show, Glastonbury
 Festival, and the Cheltenham Science Festival.
 As part of University equality and diversity agendas, the Faculty works closely with
 University Widening Participation teams to keep Faculty research aligned with societal
 challenges. Engaging with underserved groups of the public complements the work of the
 student-run, Widening Access to Medicine Society and a Faculty Easter Residential
 course which provide information, mentoring and skills-based training to encourage
 access to the Medical School. Involving our undergraduate medical and postgraduate
 research students in engagement is key to many of our public engagement activities since
 they reflect the needs and values of future students and some public may identify better
 with them as science communicators. Recent developments in Faculty public
 engagement include using the ‘question time method’ to gauge young people’s opinion
 (school, college and medical undergraduates) as part of strategic planning for the NIHR.




                                                                                              Page 36
