Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: De Montfort University
 Unit of assessment: 33
 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 CONTEXT
 The work in this Unit now covers UOA 33’s full subject range and involves two faculties and four
 research institutes. The Leicester Media School within the Faculty of Computing, Engineering
 and Media hosts:
 •   Cinema and Television History Institute (CATHI)
 •   Music, Technology and Innovation – Institute for Sonic Creativity (MTI2)
 •   Institute of Creative Technologies (IOCT)
 The School of Humanities and Performing Arts within the Faculty of Arts, Design and Humanities
 hosts:
 •   Dance, Drama and Performance Studies Research Institute (DDPS)
 Researchers are evenly divided between three main Institutes, while the IOCT, focusing on
 transdisciplinary research across the arts and technology border, provides two entrants to
 UOA 33: Professor Sophy Smith, whose work will be grouped with that of the DDPS, and
 Professor Craig Vear, who works closely with MTI2. Although the IOCT’s research activity
 crosses UOAs and cannot be fully considered here, it should be noted that it acts as an
 inspiration, advocate and catalyst for interdisciplinarity and external partnership cultivation. The
 £4,000,000 Innovate UK ‘Audience of the Future’ project, in which the IOCT is a partner, is
 focused on interdisciplinarity in performance and has propagated a new research cluster that
 brings together performers, computer scientists and game designers.
 Researchers in film and television, although submitted successfully to UOA 36 in REF 2014,
 have mostly elected to join colleagues in Music, Dance and Drama for REF 2021. However, the
 border between Screen and Media Studies remains permeable and, following consultation with
 two staff whose outputs are submitted here, their impact case studies (ICSs) on film festivals
 have been submitted to UOA 34.
 The elements of this complex Unit operate at different levels of research intensity: all Music and
 Film staff have significant responsibility for research (SRR), while over one-third of Dance,
 Drama and Performance staff emphasise the pedagogic side of their standard teaching and
 research (T&R) contracts or are researchers-in-training. Nevertheless, these differences have
 narrowed significantly since 2014, thanks to the research strategy (REF5a). In 2014, only four
 staff in Dance and Drama were submitted (around 20%), now it is 13 (60%). Of the 47 academic
 staff employed under T&R contacts in the subject areas of this UOA, 81% have been identified
 as having SRR, with four others being researchers-in-training. All subject areas exceed DMU’s
 target of 60% of staff with SRR.

 1.2 STRUCTURE: THE RESEARCH INSTITUTES
 1.2.1 Cinema and Television History Institute (CATHI, Director: Professor Justin Smith)
 CATHI was founded in 2010 to advance evidence-based historical research in film and television
 production, distribution and reception. In REF 2014, CATHI came first in UOA 36 for 4* outputs,
 with almost half rated world-leading. CATHI has now absorbed the Centre for Adaptations, which
 it shares with the English Institute.
 Emphasising the importance of partnerships with other universities and the cultural sector,
 CATHI aims to produce groundbreaking interdisciplinary research with particular strengths in:
 adaptations, British film and television history, cinemagoing, cult, heritage, silent, transnational
 and documentary cinema, film festivals and women’s television history. CATHI’s strategy since
 2014 has been to extend its established position in the sector by increasing research capacity,
 promoting diversity, successful grant applications, archive enhancement and raising the profile of
                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 its impactful research. There has been a substantial growth in UKRI funding success (nine
 grants from AHRC and BA/Leverhulme), postgraduate research (PGR) completions (200%
 increase), new research collaborations, public engagement, and the acquisition and impactful
 use of archives. CATHI is home to a number of unique collections (see 3.2), that make DMU one
 of the most important universities for archival resources in the field of British film and television.
 CATHI’s main categories of impact are:
 •   cultural enrichment by increasing public understanding of cultural issues and cultural values
 •   contributing to economic prosperity through partnerships with the creative sector
 •   preserving and presenting cultural heritage.
 Its conferences, such as Jaws and ‘Women in Hollywood’, are designed to provide opportunities
 for public engagement events. Professor Ian Hunter’s conference ‘Stanley Kubrick: A
 Retrospective’ (2016), for example, included an exhibition at DMU’s Heritage Centre and
 introductions by Kubrick’s producer, Jan Harlan, to public screenings at one of CATHI’s partner
 institutions, Leicester’s Phoenix Cinema and digital arts venue. Phoenix has also hosted CATHI
 collaborations with the BFI (British Silent Film Festival 2017, 2019), the Women’s Film and
 Television History Network (biennial conference 2016) and the UK Asian Film Festival (2018–
 present) – all with strong public engagement elements. The Institute has also built an 18-strong
 network of associate research fellows (ARFs), many from the media industries, who facilitate
 public engagement and impact, and collaborate on publications such as the recent edition of
 Women’s History Review edited by Laraine Porter, Vicky Ball and ARF Professor Pat Kirkham.
 1.2.2 Dance, Drama, and Performance Studies Research Institute (DDPS, Director
 Professor Ramsay Burt)
 DDPS was founded in 2018 to connect academics from across the performing arts with the goal
 of producing strong innovative research, both scholarly and practice-based. Staff belong to either
 the well-established Centre for Interdisciplinary Research in Dance (CIRID) or the Drama
 Research Group, and together they comprise an Institute which promotes a distinctive ethos of
 mutual support and collaboration. It includes specialists in contemporary dance, theatre and
 dance history, Live Art, contemporary and intermedial performance, applied theatre and
 performer training, with focus placed on emergent practices and issues around gender, diversity
 and the performance of identities, with a particular strength in dance and African diasporas.
 DDPS places a distinctive emphasis on ‘process, politics and philosophy’, and its pursuit of
 excellence is supported by the Unit strategy of international collaboration and strong connections
 with the cultural industry. DDPS has sturdy roots in the local and wider creative sector, including
 Dance4, Curve (Leicester’s theatre venue), One Dance UK, Nottingham Playhouse, and Contact
 Theatre Manchester; and practitioners such as Traci Kelly, Penny Slinger, Kaite O’Reilly and
 Dani Ploeger. DMU alumnus Akram Khan MBE is an honorary professor, developing dance
 pieces at DMU and regularly providing placements for students.
 With Institutes maintaining open borders and encouraging interdisciplinary work, the facilities
 and expertise of DDPS provide vital resources for collaborative impact events, evidenced, for
 example, by eight events staged in partnership with CATHI at central London venues (2016–
 2018, see 4.3). DDPS has also been an advocate of cross-institute PGR student supervision,
 one of the initiatives that has helped to build a spectacular increase in its research capacity since
 2014, especially in Drama, which has seen a quadrupling in its SRR staff and PGR students
 (see section 2).
 1.2.3 Music, Technology and Innovation – Institute for Sonic Creativity (MTI2, Director:
 Professor Leigh Landy)
 MTI2 is the longest-established research collective in the UOA, dating from 2000. Since 2014 the
 Institute (formally a Centre) has enhanced its global research footprint. Its aim of developing
 from ‘a two-way symbiosis (theory–practice)’ to a ‘three-way interaction of theory–practice–
 outreach and pedagogy’ has been successfully pursued. It is best illustrated by the Institute’s
 two ICSs, one completely focused on outreach and pedagogical initiatives (EARS 2 / Compose
                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 with Sounds) and the other involving workshops, the creation of new instruments and innovative
 forms of collaboration. MTI2’s focus on collaborative projects and partnership is evidenced in
 both its practice-based and scholarly work, in particular its large ‘Interfaces’ project, part of a
 €4,000,000 Creative Europe initiative.
 MTI2’s field is highly interdisciplinary, embracing the arts, humanities, technology and the
 science of cognition. MTI2 regularly works with people in the performing arts, time-based
 audiovisual arts and the developing 3D immersive arts. Staff members (Atkinson, Vear), for
 example, have worked on projects with dancers from DDPS. Vear’s work with live scores forms
 one of the areas of interdisciplinary interest, while robotics in performance is another. The
 Institute intends to build on this to explore innovative collaborative endeavour, including
 interactivity, computer games, VR immersive environments, and 3D sound projection for both
 audio and audiovisual performance. In its public engagement activity, MTI2 will continue to
 emphasise lifelong learning and inclusion, and the United Nations’ Sustainable Development
 Goals (SDGs).

 1.3 RESEARCH STRATEGY
 The research institutes that comprise this UOA have strategically pursued the aims of producing
 a strong body of world-class research that will enhance our disciplines, address social and
 cultural issues, engage with external audiences, and make a difference to well-being, intellectual
 understandings and educational development. In advancing our aims, we have been mindful of
 equality and diversity in the appointment and development of staff, the distribution of resources,
 and the identification of research priorities in line with DMU’s overall research strategy (REF5a).
 To pursue these aims, Institutes have drawn on a repertoire of Unit strategies, including:
 •   An ambitious programme of staff development through the appointment of talented early
     career researchers (ECRs), rigorous mentoring programmes for early and mid-career
     researchers, development of ARF networks and rebalancing to create a more diverse staff
     base.
 •   The creation of distinctive institutes that offer vibrant environments for cutting-edge research,
     which explore the borders of art and technology, intermedial performance, and gender and
     diversity.
 •   Expansion of research capacity through successful funding bids, and increased PGR
     numbers.
 •   The strategic development of regional and national external partnerships with both HEIs and
     non-HEIs, and a focus on heightening impact through research-related education and
     outreach initiatives.
 1.3.1 Progress against research strategy
 Since 2014, the Unit’s researchers have published 16 monographs, 26 edited books and
 journals, 89 journal articles, 121 book chapters, and given approximately 450 performances. Our
 total productivity, including recordings, broadcasts, contributions to Blu-rays, journalism,
 compositions and exhibitions, exceeds 750 outputs. If we include conference papers (many
 keynote) and public talks, the total doubles. This has been facilitated by a near doubling of
 researcher numbers, a tripling of external income and careful strategic investment of research
 funding. Specific progress has been made against strategic aims:
 •   Staff development: as detailed in section 2.1, the number of category A staff we are
     submitting (38) has increased by 81% since 2014. This has been achieved by focused hiring,
     with an emphasis on ECRs who have been extensively supported through the VC2020
     (REF5a) programme, which gave reduced teaching hours and increased research budgets.
     The proportion of women has more than doubled from 19% to 42% of the submission. The
     increase in senior and experienced researchers has been achieved through mechanisms
     such as the Future Research Leaders programme.

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   Distinctive institutes: the four Institutes that comprise this submission each offer a focused
     platform for the development of research. MTI2 and IOCT both draw on the interplay between
     new technologies and creativity, while CATHI and DDPS offer cultural interpolations which
     are nuanced towards work with cultural partners and within topics of gender and diversity.
     The distinctiveness of these Institutes has been enhanced within this period, while new
     appointments have broadened their remits and offered new directions.
 •   Research capacity: this has been increased during this period through an increased number
     of grant contracts and PGR students. Grant income has increased threefold to £1,800,000
     (£1,095,531 in research income in the census period, but total awards accounting for
     considerably more) and PhD completions have grown significantly from16 to 43 since
     REF 2014. DMU has been a founding university in the AHRC’s Midlands4Cities (M4C) DTP
     which has enabled capacity-building.
 •   External partnerships: these play an important role both as partners in research and as
     vehicles for achieving impact. This period has seen an increase in the depth and breadth of
     regional, national and international partnerships, both short- and long term. Local ACE-
     funded venues, the Curve Theatre and Phoenix cinema are key to providing platforms for the
     dissemination of research impact. National and international research partners such as the
     Royal Shakespeare Company (RSC), and international networks of universities have
     demonstrated the success of this strategic intervention during this period.
 The Unit is committed to research integrity and works in accordance with the University’s
 processes in relation to ethics and integrity among all researchers. We are also committed to
 Open Access, making more publications and data Open Access by ensuring that members
 deposit material in institutional repositories (DORA for text outputs and DMU Figshare for data).
 We intend to use the recently created DMU Press to make more research openly accessible.

 1.4 IMPACT STRATEGY
 This Unit’s work is varied and wide-ranging, and the priorities and approaches of its diverse
 elements may differ to some extent, but its strategy for developing and embedding impact during
 the next census period is broadly shared:
 •   Ensuring that allocations for research leave and funding consider impact potential as part of
     the process of research as well as an additional outcome.
 •   Supporting projects to catalogue and develop impact from new archival acquisitions.
 •   Focusing on work with cultural and creative industry organisations, and extending our
     collaborations with national and international bodies such as Dance4, the Pompidou Centre,
     the Royal Albert Hall, the BBC and ZKM (Center for Arts and Media), Karlsruhe.
 •   Identifying new key partners in the cultural sector with whom we can build relationships to
     deliver impact and influence policy.
 •   Increasing our use of platforms such as YouTube to share recordings of impact events with a
     global audience
 •   Widening interest and participation in relevant experimental art forms, both in terms of
     educational and participatory arts initiatives, as discussed, for example, in our ‘Bringing New
     Music to New Audiences’ conference (2018)
 1.4.1 Progress against impact strategy
 Supporting impact is a key element of the Research and Innovation Allowance (RIA) process
 (REF5a), and the Institutes use part of their budgets to finance impactful events. The MTI2
 budget supports public outreach and performance events both locally and overseas, with over
 400 performances in more than 20 countries. CATHI has supported film festivals, immersive
 cinema events in London and Leicester, and film and performance events at London’s Royal
 Albert Hall and Regent Street Cinema. DMU stages an annual, week-long ‘Cultural Exchanges
 Festival’ (with an average footfall of 2,600 per year) which brings together academics, students,
                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 arts practitioners and the general public. This provides a regular showcase for research in the
 Unit to which all our Institutes contribute. DMU also aids staff to monitor and document impact
 via paid research assistant interns. Plans for impact, of course, are also built into the Unit’s
 numerous UKRI awards and into the Creative Europe project grants for ‘Interfaces’ and
 Compose with Sounds.
 The Unit’s staff work closely with businesses and cultural organisations, from international DVD-
 releasing companies such as Network Distributing, Cohen Media Group and Powerhouse, to
 local spin-off companies such as Serendipity, which specialises in Black dance. Our work with
 Serendipity covers three of our Institutes and has been supported by Innovate UK. Professor
 Sophy Smith, who is involved with this work, also contributed a musical score to the Charge
 project, an experimental fusion of art and science which illustrated and exemplified, through
 dynamic dance performance, research from Oxford University on the generation of energy in the
 human body. This collaboration with Motionhouse Dance Theatre has accompanying
 educational resources and was supported by a coalition of trusts and foundations. SSmith’s
 score has been publicly performed 66 times to a total audience of over 23,000. Her project
 epitomises the Unit’s belief in collaboration and multidisciplinary public engagement.
 MTI2’s series of symposia, conferences, festivals and concerts links the Institute with both
 established audiences and new ones – via the Interfaces project and new Convergence festival,
 for example. In their Pop-up-Play project, supported by a substantial grant from Nesta, Vear
 collaborated with Leicester’s Spark Arts for Children to explore ways in which digital
 technologies can enhance the creative learning experience.
 Our ICSs demonstrate the range of fields in which our work benefits stakeholders and provides
 resources that make a difference to lives and the development of scholarship.
  •   Landy’s ICS describes how the creation of the EARS 2 multilingual e-learning site with its
      associated creative software, Compose with Sounds, supported by interest-related
      evaluation data, is expanding the scope of music education among targeted pre-tertiary
      education groups. The project was initiated at UNESCO’s request, recognised by
      policymakers (e.g. Cyprus’s Ministry of Culture and Education), and supported by the
      Creative Europe programme.
  •   Richards’s ICS extends the theme of widening sonic creativity to embrace the design of
      new electronic instruments for the global ‘DIY and maker’ communities that emerged in the
      1990s. The significance of this research lies in the innovative crossover between design
      and electronic music that facilitates the democratisation of technology.
  •   Our third ICS is supplied by the growing body of work at DMU on adaptations, which has
      contributed substantially to changes in international curricula at secondary and tertiary
      levels, and to new approaches to the subject. Professor Deborah Cartmell’s Centre for
      Adaptations can be held to have a significant responsibility for the discipline’s reach across
      the world.
 UOA researchers have made a significant contribution to the economy and society beyond the
 ICSs submitted. In 2016, in partnership with Picturehouse Cinemas and Phoenix, Matthew
 Jones, Alissa Clarke and Kelly Jordan co-organised ‘A Night at the Cinema in the 1960s’ – two
 large-scale, immersive theatre performances based on the findings of Jones’s British Academy–
 funded research into memories of 1960s cinemagoing. The project time-travelled venues in
 Leicester and central London back five decades, with 30 actors playing staff and cinemagoers
 from the era. Impact was achieved by allowing the public (240 attended) to engage directly with
 the types of experiences Jones’s research identifies. The cross-faculty initiative also generated
 impact from CATHI’s archives, Hunter’s research on Hammer, Jordan’s work on immersive
 theatre and Clarke’s research on the body and gender in performance. It was the subject of a
 YouTube video-blog (7,000 views), podcasts, significant social media commentary and articles in
 the Times Higher Education and Time Out. In related events, DMU Heritage Centre mounted a
 year-long ‘Monsters of Hammer’ exhibition (6,000 visitors), followed by an exhibition (by Jones,
 Professor Steve Chibnall, Laraine Porter and Stuart Hanson) about the history of cinemagoing

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 in Leicester. An M4C-funded postdoctoral researcher organised a multimedia public
 performance of an unmade Hammer script from our archive at London’s Regent Street Cinema,
 building on the success of a similar event at the Mayhem Film Festival, Nottingham, in 2015.
 Chibnall and Clarke, curators of CATHI’s Peter Whitehead Archive, mounted a series of
 collaborative public events in 2017/18 celebrating the 50th anniversary of the Summer of Love at
 the Royal Albert Hall and three further multimedia events, ‘The View from Underground’ at
 Regent Street Cinema. A film of the last event, ‘Women of the Counterculture’, directed by a
 funded PhD student, has received prominent exposure on CATHI’s YouTube channel. All
 generated income from ticket sales and keen media interest, but also served the important social
 function of facilitating the exchange of knowledge between generations via unique
 entertainments. These events, including one live-streamed on Facebook, have all been
 publicised effectively on social media by DMU Comms and CATHI’s Facebook page, which has
 775 followers. CATHI members regularly disseminate their research through media
 appearances. For example. Porter, PI on the major AHRC-funded project ‘British Silent Cinema
 and the Transition to Sound,1927–1933’ (with the University of Stirling, 2014–2018) discussed
 silent film divas with Francine Stock on BBC Radio 4, October 2017; and, at a local level,
 Jones’s research underpins his BBC Radio Leicester weekly slot on new film releases, and
 Hanson has discussed his research on cinemagoing on local radio in Leicester, Nottingham and
 Cambridge.
 There is further evidence that our work influences practitioners in the creative sector. For
 example, Burt’s seminal research into dance and homosexuality has impacted on the practices
 of dance artists such as Spanish choreographer Iván Pérez, whose ballet The Male Dancer was
 premiered by the Paris Opera Ballet in 2018. Pérez borrowed the title of Burt’s book and used
 the text while creating the work. He emailed Burt to say, ‘Your influence inspired me to raise new
 questions and empowered me to make my own statement in the time I live in’. Burt’s work on
 issues concerning dance and ‘race’ has had similar impacts on British-based dance artists who
 are black.
 A selection of current projects that have potential for social impact and the effective promotion of
 well-being which may yield future ICSs includes:
 •   Mark Crossley’s AHRC/MRC-supported interdisciplinary collaboration with Professor
     Raghavan (Faculty of Health and Life Sciences) is an applied-arts project which explores the
     efficacy of theatre as an intervention in the lives of basti migrants in Pune.
 •   Funded by the Erasmus+ Strategic Partnership scheme, which brings together researchers
     from across Europe, Lyndsey Bakewell’s project looks to creative practices, such as
     storytelling and theatre, to understand what tools are required to enable young people to
     enter creative arts jobs in the current challenging climate.
 •   Like many of CATHI’s history projects, Pier Ercole’s AHRC-funded research on European
     Cinema Audiences (a collaboration with Oxford Brookes and Ghent Universities), aims to
     reconnect members of the older generation with their own biographies while building social
     cohesion by deepening the younger generation’s understanding of their cultural heritage.

 1.5 FUTURE STRATEGY
 We anticipate that, in the next five years, more than 90% of staff in the subjects covered by
 UOA 33 will have SRR, and an extensive mentorship scheme for researchers-in-training has
 been put in place to ensure this. We will advise that all funding and research allowance
 applications consider impact potential as part of the process of research as well as an additional
 outcome. From their secure bases in well-funded Institutes, our researchers will collaborate
 within and across their groupings to:
 •   maintain and enhance our portfolio of academic publication and artistic creation;
 •   address relevant SDGs (5, 8, 9, 10 and 11), and assist in the regeneration of the creative
     economy in our city post the Covid-19 pandemic;

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   continue to explore innovative ideas for product designs which encourage participation in the
     creative arts;
 •   develop websites, blogs and video platforms of demonstrable public utility to further
     strengthen our interface with user groups and disseminate research achievements;
 •   extend and intensify our collaborations with cultural organisations, including local partners
     such as Phoenix, and national and international bodies such as the RSC, Dance4, the
     Pompidou Centre, the Royal Albert Hall, the BBC and ZKM, Karlsruhe;
 •   engage public and media attention via events and performances geared towards significant
     research impact;
 •   curate and develop impact from new archival acquisitions;
 •   widen interest and participation in experimental art forms, as discussed, for example, in our
     ‘Bringing New Music to New Audiences’ conference (2018);
 •   further diversify our group of researchers;
 •   ensure the continuation of our European partnerships post-Brexit;
 •  increase our external income through impactful projects, such as Vear’s ambitious ‘Digital
    Scores’ project, funded by a £1,600,000 ERC Consolidator grant, which will lead to new
    forms of musical expression, support inclusive music-making in the digital realm and impact
    upon software development and digital publishing across the media arts, reframing the
    contexts in which many artists and performers work.
 Section 2. People

 2.1 STAFFING STRATEGY AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT
 In the interest of increasing research capacity across the Unit, new academic appointees since
 2014 have been expected, wherever possible, to be research-active. Appointment panels have
 also been conscious of the need to promote diversity and inclusion in the Unit’s research
 cultures. In addition, an appropriate strategy of mentoring and meaningful research allowances
 has been implemented to ensure that those with SRR are more representative of the general
 staff profile. In 2014, of the 21 researchers submitted (across two UOAs) only 4 (19%) were
 women, and none were professors. However, the current submission of 38 Category A staff
 includes 16 (42%) women, of whom three are professors (two promoted to chairs within the
 current census period). Five of the Unit’s last seven appointments have been female academics.
 The change is most evident in Dance and Drama where, historically, high teaching loads have
 militated against REF entry: only two women and no BAME staff were submitted in 2014, but the
 current submission, includes ten women (77%), of whom one is BAME. This change has
 facilitated the creation of DDPS under the directorship of Burt with additional advice and
 mentorship provided by Professor Siobhan Keenan and Chibnall (from the historically more
 research-intensive areas of English and Film respectively) and Clarke, a graduate of DMU’s
 Future Research Leaders training course (REF5a).
 The Unit now has considerable national diversity, with representatives from ten nations.
 Professors (34%) and other senior researchers (29%) together provide the majority of staff
 submitted, but most are ‘home-grown’ rather than external appointments, evidence of the Unit’s
 ability to nurture and facilitate career progression. Staff retention in the Unit is high because
 researchers appreciate that the Unit’s work is distinctive, effectively managed and resourced,
 and that success is rewarded. Strategic investment has enabled the Unit to expand significantly
 in the census period with 15 appointments, of which 11 have been ECRs. In all our Institutes,
 these appointments have helped to open up vibrant areas of research, which have particularly
 addressed the issue of diversity. European cinemagoing, community storytelling, cross-cultural
 musical improvisation, Indian diasporic cinema, and educational initiatives adapted to local
 needs are prime examples of the turn towards greater diversity in the issues addressed by our
 ECRs. An outstanding example is the work of Funmi Adewole, a former chair of the Association
 of Dance and the African Diaspora and an editor of Hotfoot, who completed a doctorate at DMU
                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 before taking up a permanent lectureship here under the mentorship of Burt. Adewole
 integrates her research on African diasporic and Black British dance with performance practice
 that has made her well-known in Nigeria and South Africa. In 2019, she was given a lifetime
 achievement award by One Dance UK.
 Our appointment strategy, guided by DMU’s wider research aims, assumes an ambitious
 trajectory, while mentoring by senior staff provides immediate support and assists research
 planning. Sven-Amin Lembke is a good example of the effective operation of this system in
 MTI2. The Institute’s ERC mentoring programme effectively developed his academic career by
 broadening his field of expertise. This led to his first internal grant, first major publication in the
 area of cognition related to electroacoustic music, and first external research bid; while this
 research brought MTI2 into contact with world-leading collaborators in the field (e.g. Professor
 Stephen McAdams at McGill University). Similarly, Anna Xambó Sedó offered new expertise in
 live-coding performance and collaborative links to NTNU in Trondheim, Norway. She had
 already been successful in winning a €25,000 grant awarded to women in permanent posts in a
 scientific field in which women are under-represented, and has now added a £10,000 EPSRC
 award.
 DMU also offers a comprehensive training programme and seed funding for all VC2020 staff.
 Evidence of how these provisions at University and Institute level facilitate the development of
 ECRs is further provided by the achievements of one of CATHI’s most recent appointments,
 Monia Acciari, who in her first three years won AHRC funding for a project on Indian film
 subtitling, brought a spin-off of the London Asian Film Festival to Leicester, and used VC2020
 funding to transfer the Cinema Museum’s Indian Cinemas Archive to DMU. Acciari is now an
 associate professor. ECRs soon discover that the Unit will give them every assistance to
 accelerate a promising career and enrich our research culture. A DMU Early Careers Network
 creates strategic alliances and a supportive space; and the University’s Research Services
 Directorate provides training and networking events for staff at all stages of their careers
 (REF5a). All SRR staff are on long-term contracts, and staff development is reviewed as part of
 the mentoring process and the formal annual appraisal.
 Research time for staff is primarily negotiated through the RIA scheme, with blocks of time for
 fieldwork or output completions being arranged, where appropriate and within the granted
 allowance, with line managers. Total RIA hours in the Unit are currently 19,520 per year,
 equivalent to at least 12 full-time research posts. The UOA’s average allowance for research is
 1.6 days per week (514 hours per year). There is a further 0.4 days per week allowance for
 general scholarship, meaning that staff in the Unit typically have two days per week for research
 and scholarship. A competitive University scheme also awards targeted study leave (usually to
 complete a publication project), and six of our staff have been the beneficiaries in the census
 period.

 2.2 INSTITUTE MEMBERSHIP
 2.2.1 Cinema and Television History Institute (CATHI)
 CATHI has 14 full members (12 full-time, one 0.45 FTE [Chibnall] and one 0.2 FTE senior
 research fellow [Peter Kramer]), including four professors, two readers, four associate
 professors (AP), and three VC2020 ECRs. However, the work of two members has been
 deemed more appropriate for UOA 34. The submission also includes the outputs of an associate
 member, Cartmell, Associate PVC Research and Director of the cross-faculty Centre for
 Adaptations, whose work lies within Film Studies. During the census period, two staff (Hunter
 and Claire Monk) have been promoted to chairs. Tim O’Sullivan, a REF 2014 panellist, now has
 an emeritus position. Professor Justin Smith was recruited to succeed Chibnall (2010–2018)
 as director of the Institute. Four other new CATHI full-time staff have been appointed within the
 census period and all have already been promoted to AP or reader (Acciari, Ball, Ercole and
 Jones). All of these APs and readers have been successful in attracting grants from the AHRC
 or BA/Leverhulme, and are evidence of a successful appointment and promotions strategy.
 Additionally, CATHI has a visiting professor, Julian Petley, principal editor of the Journal of

                                                                                                   Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 British Cinema and Television, and associate members based in three of DMU’s four faculties.
 Their interdisciplinary work augments this Institute’s core research culture.
 CATHI has benefited from the appointment of female VC2020 researchers who have facilitated
 new research directions, notably women in the British television industry (Ball) and Indian
 cinemas (Acciari), each supported by AHRC grants. Most of the new appointees have strong
 international links which have facilitated significant collaborative research partnerships in
 Europe, India, Australia and South America. Three CATHI members have been selected for the
 highly competitive Future Research Leaders scheme. Three members are actively engaged in
 work with the local LGBTQ network and the Stephen Lawrence Research Centre which
 promotes race equality and social justice (REF5a). Professorial and senior research fellow
 appointments, and two internal promotions to readership, have strategically broadened and
 strengthened the Institute’s portfolio, and confirmed its status as a mature research collective.
 2.2.2 Dance, Drama and Performance Studies (DDPS)
 DDPS is a fast-developing research institute covering subject areas which have historically been
 less research-intensive. It has 13 members with SRR (11 full-time and two 0.5 FTE, Bakewell
 and Chapman) across two faculties, including two professors, and two APs. It also has three
 researchers-in-training and one honorary international visiting research fellow, Hanna Järvinen
 (University of the Arts, Helsinki), a member of the board of the US-based Dance Studies
 Association. DDPS has benefited from the appointment of one past and one present female
 VC2020 researcher who have facilitated new work on early 20th-century modernism and theatre
 (Warden), and Black British and African dance (Adewole). Two ECRs have benefited from the
 Future Research Leaders scheme.
 2.2.3 Music Technology and Innovation – Institute for Sonic Creativity (MTI2)
 MTI2 consists of all 11 staff teaching on the Music Technology Arts courses, plus Professor Vear
 (IOCT). Of the eight senior researchers, six are professors, including three awarded chairs
 during this REF period (Bret Battey, Kevin Dahan and Vear). James Andean, Lembke and
 Xambó Sedó were appointed as VC 2020 scholars. All members have RIAs.

 2.3 RESEARCH STUDENTS
 DMU is a member of the M4C DTP, which awards 80+ individual, collaborative and postdoctoral
 studentships annually. The Unit has supplied two M4C Site Directors (Monk and Vear) and has
 been successful in securing 15 doctoral studentships (including the DTP’s first completion), four
 MA by Research Connective Scholarships and three postdoctoral awards from this consortium
 and its predecessor, Midlands3Cities. It has also supplied six supervisors for consortium
 doctorates based at other universities in the DTP. Three students have been funded by AHRC
 project grants, one via a British Academy–supported project, one by the Chinese government
 and one by the Indonesian government. The Unit has also won between three and seven PhD
 bursaries each year during the census period from the annual internal studentship competitions
 (amounting to 16 full bursaries and 10 fees-only internally funded scholarships). The award of
 most studentships is conditional on the inclusion in the supervisory team of an ECR, thus
 building supervision capacity while maintaining a critical mass of PGRs. The scheme has proved
 a vital conduit to doctoral study for our own undergraduate and postgraduate taught students as
 well as attracting external talent, and is important to the sustainability of our postgraduate
 culture. Bursaries are flexible enough to accommodate personal circumstances (e.g. maternity)
 and adaptable to study interruption when necessary.
 All applications go to the Institute PGR coordinators for distribution to potential supervisors, who
 hold DMU’s Certificate in Research Supervision. All staff involved in candidate selection have
 successfully completed equality and diversity training. All PGRs are supervised by two- or three-
 member supervisory teams, at least one of whom will have already supervised to completion.
 Teams draw on expertise from across all subject areas within the Unit and beyond. The most
 common interdisciplinary teams are Dance-Drama, Drama-Film and Music-Education Studies.
 Sixty-nine PhD students and ten MA by Research students are currently supervised by staff
 within the Unit. Those staff have also examined 50+ PGRs at other UK institutions and 19 at
                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 non-UK institutions, including three Habilitations in France. MTI2 has organised postgraduate
 exchanges with Victoria University of Wellington (NZ), Tongji University (Shanghai), HAMU
 (Prague), Royal College of Music (Stockholm) and Newcastle and Birmingham Universities. In
 2021, this Institute will also introduce ‘Dual Doctorates’, with students being registered at both
 DMU and a partner university overseas. Our Institutes also periodically host visiting doctoral and
 postdoctoral researchers from other countries – Argentina, Canada, China, Germany, Hungary,
 India, Japan, Poland and Spain since 2014 – who wish to draw on our expertise.
 All doctoral students are offered the Doctoral College’s training programme for the humanities,
 which covers communication skills, team-working, intellectual property, publishing research
 findings, employability, career planning and development, and research ethics. Where
 appropriate, they also attend a training course for PGR students who teach, and all who want to
 improve their employability with HE teaching experience are given the opportunity at full
 academic rates of pay before completion. However, teaching loads are monitored to ensure that
 PhD progression is not compromised. PGR students may also apply for paid internships to work
 on University projects, and four have worked in CATHI’s archives (some with the ambition of a
 career in curation). Institutes also offer dedicated DTPs for their students, incorporating training
 in archive and practice-based research. The latter is a cross-faculty initiative by the IOCT,
 features annual conferences/residencies, and is supported by an international web-based
 resource.
 In addition, DMU’s Doctoral College operates a fund for innovative training projects, which has
 been used to finance a free archival research day – in collaboration with the BFI, Media Archive
 of Central England (MACE) and DMU Library’s Special Collections – open to all PGR students,
 and 40 from across the UK attended. Students can apply to the Doctoral College for £500
 funding for research trips and conference presentations. Beyond Erasmus, DMU offers
 DMUglobal travel support for shorter visits of strategic importance to PGRs’ work. In this way
 practice-based MTI2 students, for example, have been enabled to travel abroad to work with
 peers towards group performance at KMH, Royal College of Music, Stockholm (2014, 2016) and
 HAMU, Academy of Music, Prague (2017, 2018), leading to public performances, television
 appearances (Sweden) and radio broadcasts (Czechia). The Doctoral College fund, together
 with DMUglobal and Midlands3Cities, also part-financed an ambitious initiative to take six Film
 and Drama research students to archives in Hollywood. The ten-day visit received the full
 cooperation of the Margaret Herrick Library, USC’s Warner Bros. Archive and ‘One’, the world’s
 leading LGBT archive.
 Our M4C students are offered a further extensive menu of training (including residential and
 overseas short courses), and also have the opportunity to design and offer their own specialist
 study days, taken up by two PGR students in Drama and Film. Placement opportunities in
 partnership with local and national cultural organisations and businesses, and ‘connective’
 studentships for MA study are further features of the DTP provision. PGR students are
 considered an important element of our research community and have representation on our
 Faculty Research Committees and attend Institute meetings and research events involving
 visiting speakers. One is also a student representative on the Executive Committee of the
 BAFTSS subject association, while another is Convenor for its LGBTQ special interest group.
 CATHI and MTI2 hold regular PGR conferences, while DDPS incorporates a postgraduate
 section in its annual ‘Borderlines’ conference. The annual international ‘CATHI Con’, which is
 entirely organised by our Film and Drama students, has been recognised as an example of best
 practice, having received grants from the BAFTSS subject group and had an edited collection of
 its papers commercially published. Postgraduates in MTI2 have also run two ‘Art and Sound’
 international conferences (2016, 2017), receiving both Institute and University support, and the
 Institute co-hosts a Summer Academy with the Ionian University of Corfu. MTI2 has also
 integrated student seminar presentations with the Research Student Annual Review process and
 thus students receive immediate feedback from peers as well as assessors. DDPS offers a
 programme of artists’ talks and a postgraduate ‘Showcase’ in which current projects are
 presented to new PGRs at the start of the academic year. In addition to Institute work-in-
 progress seminars, in which students frequently present alongside staff in a fully integrated and
                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 collegiate culture, all PGR students are encouraged to present at least once at the annual
 Faculty Postgraduate Conferences. A number of the Unit’s students have also contributed
 papers to a series of University-wide cross-disciplinary seminars that address the SDGs.
 Careful and caring supervision, with regular mandatory progress monitoring, has helped to
 achieve significantly improved completion numbers. In addition to international doctorate and MA
 by Research successes, the current census period has seen 42 PhD completions, compared to
 16 completions in the Unit’s constituent subject areas in the preceding REF period. Those
 completing in 2013–2020 are now employed throughout the arts and in higher and secondary
 education sectors, including 12 in full-time university lecturing posts (two at DMU). This
 academic employability is helped by a policy of encouraging students to disseminate their
 research at conferences in the UK and internationally, and to publish articles before the award of
 their doctorates. Recent alumni often retain their university email and are allowed to use the
 Unit’s facilities while they seek employment. Postdoctoral researchers have become an
 established element in the Unit in the present REF period. Three have been hosted by CATHI,
 funded by AHRC project grants and M4C, and two by Music Technology, funded by M4C and by
 the Creative Europe project. All postdoctoral work is supported within the Unit’s mentoring
 framework.

 2.4 EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY
 DMU’s serious commitment to fairness, inclusion, respect for protected characteristics, and the
 rejection of racial, religious, disability, class, gender and sexual discrimination, is evident at all
 levels of the University’s work, including at the UOA level (REF5a and Code of Practice). The
 health and well-being of PGRs has been sympathetically overseen by the Faculty Heads of
 Research Students (two recruited from this Unit during the census period), not least during the
 pandemic. Gender inequalities in the Unit have been addressed in recruitment, promotion and
 access to internal funding, and staff have benefited from DMU’s leave and flexible working
 policies (for instance, Cartmell was given extended compassionate leave and phased return to
 work in 2019).
 Table 1: Comparisons between UOA 35 and UOA 33 indicate an increase in female and
 BAME staff
          Male   Female    White   BAME/       Not    Profs/Senior   Readers/AP/PL    ECAF/L/SL     RF/SRF Other
                                               dis-       staff
                                    other    closed

  2014    84%     16%      100%       0                  31%         23% (F = 8%)    38% (F = 8%)            8%
  (13)

  2021    58%     42%      92%       8%         0         37%        29% (F = 45%)       31%         2%
  (38)                                                 (F = 21%)
                                                                                       (F = 66%)
                                                                                     BAME = 16.6%

 ‘F’ denotes percentage of females in each category
 The selection of outputs and ICSs for this REF has conformed to the strict guidelines described
 in DMU’s REF Code of Practice. The outputs have been assessed by a panel of 14 experienced
 researchers with enhanced equality and diversity training, more than one-third of whom were
 women. Further evaluations have been provided by external reviewers. The final selection has
 been made by staff with specialist training in avoiding unconscious bias and discrimination in the
 REF context. Beyond the minimum and maximum rules laid down by the REF for outputs, the
 Unit has imposed no quotas according to status, and has respected individual circumstances
 while applying no pressure to make declarations. Our procedures have been robust enough to
 instil confidence that any imbalances reflect factors such as differences in research career
 maturity, rather than the consequence of discrimination or unconscious bias.




                                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 EXTERNAL INCOME
 Since 2014, robust institutional support has enabled a step change in the ability of the Unit’s
 members to attract external income, resulting in significant growth in research capacity. Grant
 development is supported by the Research Services Directorate and a robust system of internal
 peer review. The results have been particularly evident in the Unit’s grant capture from UKRI and
 other major national funding bodies. As detailed in REF4, ten grants have been awarded to the
 Unit by AHRC and its funding partners (total value £868,000) and nine by BA/Leverhulme
 (£166,000). This is a doubling of income from these sources since REF 2014. Substantial
 awards have also been secured from Innovate UK (£315,000), Creative Europe (£205,000), Arts
 Council England (£189,000), and the British Film Institute (£40,000). Other funding bodies
 included Erasmus, Nesta and the National Academics and Creatives Exchange. The total value
 of external grants awarded to the Unit in the current REF period is almost £1,800,000 – three
 times the 2014 figure (research income accruing in this period is £1,095,531). If awards from
 various DMU internal funding schemes (including HEIF) are added, the total reaches
 £2,000,000. Highlights include:
 •   Creative Europe (€517,000 including match funding): Interfaces, 2014 (Landy)
 •   AHRC (£395,000): British Silent Cinema and the Transition to Sound, 2014 (Porter)
 •   Innovate UK (£205,527 of a £4,000,000 award) Audience of the Future, 2019 (SSmith)
 •   AHRC / MRC (£200,000): An Exploration of Mental Health and Resilience Narratives of
     Migrant Workers in India using Community Theatre Methodology, 2018 (Crossley)
 •   AHRC (£93,000): British Dance and the African Diasporas, 2013 (Burt)
 •   AHRC (£62,000 of a £707,000 award): European Cinema Audiences: Entangled Histories
     and Shared Memories, 2018 (Ercole)
 •   AHRC (£61,000): Women’s Work, Working Women: A Longitudinal Study of Women
     Working in the Film and Television Industries (1933–1989), 2014 (Ball)

 3.2 INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES
 The UOA is part of an extensive infrastructure of leadership and administration that stimulates
 and supports staff and PGR research activity, distributes resources (including funding), ensures
 compliance with approved administrative and ethical procedures, and promotes and monitors
 equality and diversity. During the census period, a number of roles have evolved into executive
 level positions (e.g. Associate Pro Vice-Chancellor, Research; Research Institute Director) and
 others (e.g. Institute Head of Research Students) have been introduced to ensure that the rapid
 growth in research students is purposefully and sensitively managed. Institutional willingness to
 invest in areas of success in REF 2014 is evidenced, for example, in six new staff for CATHI and
 £50,000 for its archival infrastructure and work.
 With the exception of staff holding senior management positions (Cartmell and Russell) and
 professors attached to the IOCT, all staff in the Unit have offices in DMU’s Clephan Building. The
 grouping of each Institute’s staff offices on its own floor of the building helps to foster a
 distinctive identity and community, but allows for easy communication across Institute and
 Faculty divisions. This spatial proximity has effectively encouraged cross-disciplinary projects
 and student supervisions. The accommodation shared by Screen Studies and Drama students
 provides a good example of facilities for doctoral students: a dedicated desk is provided for each
 full-time student, plus five online PCs, a photocopier/scanner for communal use, and a dedicated
 library of donated items. Students frequently tell us how much they value the opportunities for
 study and sociability that this space affords.
 The 500 square-metre MTI2 Research Laboratory in Clephan includes composition studios and
 maker spaces, as well as a communal room with hot desks for PGR students, the majority of

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 whom are part-time. Established through a £550,000 grant from HEFCE (2004), the facility has
 been continually upgraded to meet the developing needs of researchers. Postgraduate research
 in Music is also served by the Courtyard Studio, a professional-grade recording studio, and the
 Creative Technology Studios, which provide industry-standard audio and radio production suites,
 including fully equipped recording studios featuring high-end analogue and digital recording
 systems and surround sound monitoring, Foley and voice-over studios, and broadcast-standard
 radio production with professional playout and management systems. As well as providing a
 venue for film teaching and CATHI events, the Phoenix arts venue in Leicester has the ‘DMU
 Cube’ dedicated installation space, and a Screen Lounge and Café which have been regularly
 used for MTI2 audiovisual installations and live performances. The University makes an annual
 investment of £155,000 in Phoenix as a public-facing resource.
 Practice-based research in both DDPS and MTI2 is enabled by studios in the Performance Arts
 Centre for Excellence (PACE), where Studios 3 and 4 feature specialist Harlequin sprung floors.
 Two studios are equipped with seating and theatrical lighting and have been used for public
 performances by our researchers and visiting artists with connections to DMU. PACE 1 is a
 16×16m acoustically balanced performance space with a built-in surround and diffusion 3D
 audio system with 48 loudspeakers. Dance and Drama also have studios in the University
 Campus Centre. Over £95,000 has been invested in the maintenance and upgrading of the
 PACE and Campus Centre performance and rehearsal spaces since 2016. High-quality digital
 cameras, lighting and sound equipment for film-making and the documenting of performance are
 available on free loan from a central DMU dispensary. Practice-based researchers also have
 access to new £132,000 IOCT facilities in the Queen’s Building, which include state-of-the-art
 virtual-reality and motion-capture labs.
 A particularly distinctive feature of the development of resources within the Unit has been the
 expansion of archival research holdings. This began before 2014 with dance-related material,
 including the Community Dance Foundation Archive, and by the donation of the script archive of
 Hammer Films. However, further acquisitions have been central to CATHI’s strategic plan to
 establish the Institute as a leading centre for archival study. These archives now comprise over
 500,000 items including films, sculptures, pottery, paintings, posters, scripts, manuscripts,
 books, magazines, correspondence, publicity materials, audio tapes, diaries, production files,
 press clippings and photographs. New acquisitions include:
 •   Sir Norman Wisdom Collection (acquired 2014, donor Richard Dacre)
 •   Andrew Davies Archive (2015, donor Andrew Davies)
 •   Peter Whitehead Archive (2016, donor Peter Whitehead)
 •   Anita Anand (Zee TV) Archive (2018, donor Anita Anand)
 •   Palace and Scala Archive (2019 on long-term loan from Nik Powell and Stephen Woolley)
 •   Andrew Logan Archive (2019, donors Andrew Logan and Michael Davis)
 •   Indian Cinemas Archive (2019 on long-term loan from The Cinema Museum, London)
 •   Leicester Phoenix Arts and Film Society Archives (2019, from Laraine Porter and the
     Leicester Film Society)
 •   Lawrence Gleadle Archive of 1930s poster art (2020 on long-term loan from Goff Gleadle)
 Several collections have been the focus of funded PhD projects, and all attract external research
 interest. The Andrew Davies Archive featured strongly in the BBC Four documentary on the
 celebrated scriptwriter broadcast on 30 December 2018.
 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 PARTNERSHIPS WITH CULTURAL SECTOR ORGANISATIONS
 Research in the UOA has benefited local, national and international commercial organisations,
 public bodies and national arts organisations, and the general public. Our practice has ranged
                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 from exhibitions and media dissemination to working with arts organisations, museums, archives
 and professional bodies. Impact has been high on the agenda, and research has been
 disseminated to a wider audience via broadcasting, the press, online publication, social
 networking sites, contributions to commercial DVDs, public talks and the staging of open events
 with non-academic partners. A notable example is Burt’s co-curation of the British Dance: Black
 Routes exhibition (2013–2014) at the International Slavery Museum, Liverpool, which attracted
 171,000 visitors and enthusiastic reviews; and his on-screen contributions to the television
 documentary Dance Rebels: A Story of Modern Dance (BBC Four, 2015).
 The UOA is deeply involved with the cultural economy and education sectors. This includes
 consultancies for cultural venues, particularly at the local level. Members from three Institutes
 work closely on R&D with Phoenix, which commissioned an installation from Battey to celebrate
 its tenth anniversary. The IOCT has acted as a digital strategy consultant for Leicester’s Curve
 theatre, including workshops and training with creative and technical teams to develop
 performances that engage with emerging technologies. IOCT also works with local SMEs, such
 as the award-winning VR company Cats Are Not Peas, to develop experimental immersive
 performance pieces, and with the Philharmonia Orchestra and the RSC to explore alternative
 business models and support the performance sector during and post-pandemic. MTI2’s
 pedagogical and community arts initiatives include partnerships with schools and education
 providers (e.g. Leicestershire Music Service). In 2019 they collaborated with the Darbar Indian
 music festival on DMU’s new ‘Convergence Festival’ in Leicester. CATHI has close associations
 with London’s Cinema Museum and the entertainment industry union BECTU. The latter has
 been involved in two projects: Porter led an initiative to digitise and transcribe the union’s oral
 history interviews with female members (the results are on the British Entertainment History
 Project website); while the union’s membership records were the focus of Ball’s AHRC-funded
 project, ‘Working Women’, a collaboration with Leeds University, which has produced a unique
 online database.
 Our researchers also supply talks for screenings and productions, epitomised by DDPS’s well-
 attended West Side Story Study Day at Curve to accompany its hit 2019–2020 production.
 Kramer alone has done at least 35 talks at cinemas and festivals in the UK, Germany and
 Czechia. CATHI’s commercial screen partners include Network Distributing, with whom the
 Institute works to secure the release on Blu-ray of films relating to its Peter Whitehead, Hammer
 and Norman Wisdom archives. In 2019, CATHI collaborated with Network on anniversary
 screenings of Whitehead films at London’s ICA. Unfortunately, the release of these films has
 been delayed by the pandemic. Chibnall also regularly contributes consultancy and pieces-to-
 camera for Blue-ray extras: Powerhouse Films (Indicator)’s releases of Camp on Blood Island
 (1957), Yesterday’s Enemy (1959) and Footsteps in the Fog (1955), Studio Canal’s 60th
 anniversary releases of The Belles of St Trinian’s (1954) and Ice Cold in Alex (1958); and Hue
 and Cry (1947), The Magnet (1950) and Payroll (1961); and the Final Cut releases of Curse of
 the Werewolf (1961), Tales from the Crypt (1972) and (with Hunter) The Vampire Lovers (1970)
 and the feature-length documentary Hammer: The Warner Bros. Years (2018). Following her
 contributions to BBC Radio 3’s Merchant-Ivory: Classics, Celluloid and Class (2014) and Heat
 and Dust Blu-ray, Monk provided a commentary, interview and consultancy for the BFI’s 2019
 Blu-ray of Merchant Ivory’s Maurice (1987). However, undoubtedly the major release associated
 with CATHI was the seven-disc box set covering the history of the British music video, Power to
 the People (Thunderbird, 2018), co-curated by JSmith. The underpinning research was funded
 by the AHRC and conducted in association with the BFI and the British Library. Such film
 projects draw on our archival holdings and research expertise and present them to a wider
 audience.
 Our membership of the M4C partnership, with its collaborative doctoral awards and creative
 economy scholarships, has further encouraged the cultivation of productive relationships with
 cultural sector organisations.




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4.2 SUSTAINING EXCELLENCE, BUILDING LINKS AND CROSSING BOUNDARIES
 MTI2 has been the Unit’s pacesetter in international partnerships, collaborations and knowledge
 transfer. Currently, MTI2 has eight international research partnerships: Central Conservatory of
 Music (Beijing), Sorbonne Université and Groupe de Recherches Musicales (Paris), NOTAM
 (Oslo), Ionian University (Corfu), Tempo Reale (Florence), CMMAS (Mexico) and the ZKM
 (Karlsruhe). These relationships have, beyond concert, staff and student exchange, led to the
 co-development of software (e.g. plug-ins for ZKM’s Zirkonium software and DMU’s Compose
 with Sounds software were developed with several partners); development and translations of
 the EARS and EARS 2 websites; joint publications; and the establishment of the subject
 association: the Electroacoustic Music Studies Network (with GRM, Sorbonne).
 The Institute’s professoriate has occupied numerous visiting academic roles at universities
 across the world: Dahan at Stanford, USA; Landy at Tianjin Conservatory of Music (twice) and
 Janáček Conservatoire, Brno; and Andean, Batchelor and Professor John Young at Bowling
 Green State University, USA. There have been invitations to concerts, talks and festivals around
 the globe as well as international commissions and broadcasts on overseas radio stations in
 Canada, Czechia, France, Holland, Italy, Mexico, Poland, Spain and New Zealand – the last a
 live broadcast of an orchestral work by Young, plus an interview with the composer. A
 performance by Landy was filmed for a documentary by Cinémotif Film (CZ) for ARTE
 television; and there were two entire broadcasts of MTI2 compositions on the Concertzender,
 Amsterdam in 2018. Andean provides an outstanding example of the way in which the Institute’s
 creative research has transcended national and disciplinary boundaries. He has performed his
 sonic pieces and exhibited his audiovisual work in 19 countries across four continents. Many of
 the performances by Institute members are invited solo concerts, often of commissioned pieces
 – for example, Atkinson’s world premiere of Présences Électronique/Akousma at Ina-GRM,
 Paris (2015); or Emmerson’s one-composer concerts in Finland, Mexico, Poland, the UK and
 the USA. Throughout the REF period, the Institute has also invited international guests from East
 Asia, the Americas and Europe for talks, workshops, performances and recordings at DMU.
 There are many international venues, too, among performances given by our dance researchers:
 e.g. Sally Doughty in Cincinnati (2015), Cholula, Mexico (2018), and at the Shouze Arts Centre,
 Beijing (2019), where she was invited to deliver two weeks of professional dance masterclasses;
 and Adewole as a dancer, storyteller, pedagogue and dramaturg in Canada (2016), Norway,
 Nigeria and Senegal (2018), and South Africa (2019). Adewole also contributed to the
 documentary series ‘Why Do We Dance’, made by an Italian production company (Margnolia) for
 Sky Arts (2017). DDPS has also enhanced its international profile by collaborations with the
 Korean National University of Arts, the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, and the
 Universities of Loughborough, Central Florida, Bloemfontein and Bengaluru; and by appointing
 research fellows based in Finland (Dance), and South Korea and Poland (Drama). In both
 Drama and Film, there are research projects in India, where Crossley is working to make a
 difference to the lives of poor migrants and Acciari has been a visiting academic, giving talks
 and researching in archives. ARHC follow-on funding enabled JSmith to take the findings of his
 research (with Professor Caston, UEL) on the history of the British music video on a promotional
 visit to Cuba. Monk also achieved a global hit podcast produced for Phoenix Cinema on the
 Oscar-winning Call Me By Your Name (2017).

 4.3 RESEARCH BASE INDICATORS
 During the census period, members of the UOA have been responsible for the main editorship of
 three peer-reviewed journals: Organised Sound (CUP), Adaptation (OUP) and Shakespeare
 (Routledge). Members are also on the editorial boards of 18 journals, with multiple
 representation on Journal of British Cinema and Television, International Journal of Performance
 and Digital Media, Comedy Studies and Organised Sound – titles which are all indicative of
 research interests that we consider as our strengths. There were further contributions to
 publishing through six series editorships with commercial houses, such as Palgrave, Bloomsbury
 and Springer.

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Eight of our professors are, or have been, members of the AHRC Peer Review College
 (Cartmell is a Strategic Reviewer), and some review for other UKRI research councils: Vear, for
 example, has also reviewed for the ESPRC and MRC. Landy is one of three professors who has
 reviewed for the European Research Council and he has also been consulted by national bodies
 in Denmark and Austria. Other reviewing by Unit members has included applications to BA/
 Leverhulme, Institut Universitaire de France, the Dutch Science Council and the Czech Science
 Foundation. All of our Institutes have supplied jurors to cultural festivals, notably Emmerson as
 panel chair for the British Composer Award. Emmerson, who has been Visiting Composer at the
 University of Turku, Silver Jubilee Visiting Professor at the Western Australian Academy of
 Performing Arts, and Resident Composer at Sond’Ar-te International Forum, Lisbon, is also a
 Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts since 2015.
 The Unit’s members won ten new first prizes during the census period. Most awards went to
 MTI2, notably:
 •   Andean: Lumen Prize Creative Coding Award 2014;
 •   Battey: MADATAC Digital Arts Awards. Spain 2019, and Co-1st prize: MuVi4 International
     Exhibition of Video and Moving Image, Spain 2015
 •   Young: 1st prizes at Musica Nova competition Prague 2018; and Concours international de
     composition électroacoustique KLANG!, 2019.
 These awards clearly index the exceptional global reach of the Institute, but there have been
 prizes elsewhere in the Unit:
 •   Ercole won the prize for best article by an ECR in the Historical Journal of Film, Radio and
     Television (2017)
 •   Cartmell was awarded the Jim Welsh Prize for Excellence in Adaptations (2016). Cartmell
     was also an invited keynote speaker at events at the University of São Paulo, 2019, four
     Indian universities (Chennai, Adams, Bankura and Gour Banga), 2020, University of Cyprus,
     2017; TU, Braunschweig, 2017: Aristotle University, Thessaloniki, 2016; Jagiellonian
     University, Poland, 2016; the National Library of the Netherlands, The Hague, 2015;
     University of Newcastle, 2014; and was Seminar Convenor at the World Shakespeare
     Congress, UK, 2016; and the Shakespeare Association of America, Vancouver, 2015.
 The UOA will continue with its current approach of developing cultural events, forming
 partnerships with key cultural organisations, engaging with audiences and researching in
 partnership with commercial organisations. It will also build on its reputation for innovation,
 experimentation and blue-sky research, all epitomised by Vear’s pioneering ERC ‘Digital Scores’
 project.




                                                                                            Page 16
