Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: St Mary’s University, Twickenham

 Unit of Assessment: 27, English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit Context and Development

        Research in the English Language and Literature Unit of Assessment (hereafter ‘the Unit’)
 comes from staff based in the Institute of Theology and Liberal Arts, the Institute of Business, Law
 and Society and the School of Drama of St Mary’s University, Twickenham (hereafter ‘St
 Mary’s/the University’).

        Since the Research Excellence Framework 2014, the context and structure of the Unit has
 seen significant progress. The Unit is formed from staff in the academic disciplines of English
 Language and Literature, Communications, History, Drama and Philosophy. The research
 strategy for the Unit was developed considering feedback received from the REF 2014 submission
 and within the St Mary’s University Research and Enterprise strategy, outlined in ‘Vision 2025’.

          One of the three key aims of Vision 2025 was to ‘nurture carefully-selected areas of
 internationally-leading/world class research’ and this is reflected in the Unit, which demonstrates
 good quality research from both established and emerging scholars in a variety of related
 disciplines.

         The REF 2014 submission entered English and History as discreet Units of Assessment
 but did not include the broader group of academics from the School of Arts and Humanities. This
 decision was made to ensure the quality of the submission and remove the likelihood of
 ‘unclassified’ submissions, a problem encountered in RAE 2008. This strategy was successful. In
 REF 2014 61% of English outputs were ranked as 3* and 4*. In History, 50% of outputs were
 ranked at 3* and 4*. Our intention was always to develop a research structure that would enable
 all those academic staff at St Mary’s who engage in research to be submitted to the REF in 2021.
 One of the challenges faced in relation to these disciplines in a university of the size of St Mary’s
 has been that our researchers are thinly spread across disciplines, making it difficult to create
 units of sufficient size to submit enough impact case studies and outputs to REF 2021.

         Our progress toward dealing with this challenge has been facilitated by a gradual process
 of reorganisation, which has aimed to create sufficient research depth to allow a combined
 submission involving all research active academics in these disciplines. An initial
 reorganisation at St Mary’s in July 2018 saw separate departments recalibrated into two Faculties
 managed by Deans and supported by Associate Deans for Research and Heads of Departments.
 This offered the opportunity for scholars from these disciplines to work more closely together and
 develop a combined research culture.

        The Unit’s research strategy has broad structural aims alongside the continuing
 development of specific thematic connections between the work of researchers, for example,
 expanding collaborative research in the areas of narrative and migration studies. Researchers
 share an interest in the analysis and reception of narrative, the communication of political, cultural
 and social identities and the historical engagement of public and private audiences, maintaining
 strong links with issues affecting larger communities, including health and wellbeing. This has
 created an effective dynamic for an inter-disciplinary unit. Future research will be enhanced by the
 opportunity for more frequent collaboration between these researchers, whose research might
 have been separated by the demands of smaller discipline Units of Assessment.

        This development has been strengthened through a further reorganisation in 2020, which
 created new Institutes to encourage interdisciplinary research and scholarship. Scholars in English
 and History are now part of the Institute of Theology and Liberal Arts, a move which enables them
 to work more closely with, and benefit from, the experience and research culture of the successful
 team from the Institute of Theology. The public-facing elements of Communications are now joined

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with Business and Law in the Institute of Business, Law & Society, encouraging greater
 sophistication in the dissemination of high-level research to the public. The Faculty of Sport, Allied
 Health and Performance Sciences is now aligned with the scholars from the performing arts,
 offering the opportunity to share innovative approaches to performance and to combine theatrical
 research with training and development across the disciplines that are concerned with enhancing
 preparation for optimum success in live performance.
         This reorganisation will enhance the ability of academics in the Unit to work with one
 another and with colleagues from elsewhere in the University. By emphasising thematic links
 across the Institutes, we aim to expand staff collaboration and allow researchers to develop their
 portfolios and promote research-led teaching. We are working to establish distinct thematic links
 in research, to expand collaborative research connections on the themes of narrative
 interpretation, the inclusion of indigenous and migrant voices, and the analysis of cultural
 engagement from audiences. These topics underline the importance for St Mary’s researchers of
 projects that seek to understand varied communities. These collaborative topics will allow
 researchers to share their discipline expertise as part of a broad research profile.

     This process of gradual development means that the Unit includes academics who have
 published and developed their careers within several sub-disciplines; in English Language and
 Literature, Communications, History, Drama and Philosophy. Their work is devoted largely to
 undergraduate and postgraduate teaching, doctoral supervision and programme management,
 alongside their scholarly research. The Unit contains literary, historical and textual scholarship, as
 well as creative and life writing, and draws upon research in social history, political and cultural
 identity, theatrical engagement and narratives of digital media and musicology.

 Structure of research

     Research within the Unit is organised in research centres and research clusters as required
 by the University Research Committee. Centres are more formal groupings, and they are set
 biennial targets in relation to income generation, publications and public engagement. Most of the
 outputs discussed emerge from; the Centre for Joseph Conrad Studies, The Research Centre for
 History and Public Pasts, and the Communications research cluster.

 The Centre for Joseph Conrad Studies (Conrad Centre)

        The study of the life and works of the English novelist and short-story writer Joseph Conrad
 (1857-1924) is a research speciality at St Mary's University through its Centre for Joseph Conrad
 Studies, which was established in 2012. The Director is Professor Allan H. Simmons. The Centre’s
 research is pursued in several activities but principally through the management and editing of
 The Cambridge Edition of the Works of Joseph Conrad, in course of publication by Cambridge
 University Press.

        See Centre for Joseph Conrad Studies (stmarys.ac.uk)

 Centre for History and Public Pasts

         The Centre for History and Public Pasts is a hub for activities that promote scholarly
 research and research-led teaching in the field of the philosophy of history. This specialist research
 centre in history evolved from the Centre for the Philosophy of History, established in 2013, which
 acted as the locus for research and research-led teaching in the philosophy of history. By 2018,
 the Centre’s developing research and teaching remit, alongside the provision of a new MA in
 Public History, resulted in a change of name to emphasise the public engagement and impact of
 the Centre’s research into the uses of the past. During the assessment period the Centre has held
 regular public events (detailed below) and engaged in significant research impact outlined in the
 accompanying Impact Case Study.
       Specifically, the Centre encourages and facilitates research activities across disciplinary
 boundaries, and with individuals and institutions outside the higher education sector. This research
                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 explores the ideological dimensions and uses of histories. The Centre encourages research that
 investigates the potential for reorienting historical practices towards the production of histories that
 seek to inspire wider ethical discussions about what we value and how we want to live.
        See Centre for History and Public Pasts (stmarys.ac.uk)
 Communications Research Cluster

         Communications has established a research cluster (with a view to developing a research
 centre), where research activities are connected through a common thread of the analysis of
 narratives of exclusion and inclusion; digital culture and ethics; gender, victimhood, and
 scapegoating; and rhetorical and civic literacy.

 Second language acquisition

         The Unit also has an expert language researcher in Professor Pauline Foster, who has a
 distinguished international reputation in second language acquisition. In this cycle of assessment
 alone Foster has been asked to present eight plenary papers for prestigious linguistics
 conferences internationally, including BAAL. During the assessment period Foster has published
 three peer reviewed chapters in books and four peer reviewed articles in journals.

 Research and Impact Strategy 2014-2020

        Following the last REF assessment in 2014, the Unit identified six strategic priorities. These
 were as follows:

 1. To appoint and promote individuals with good track records, or strong emerging profiles, in
    research and dissemination.

         The establishment of the two Centres and the Communications research cluster has
 enabled us to nurture a research culture, recruiting new research talent and developing existing
 researchers, both early career and established. Of those being returned Dr Kim Salmons, Dr Jacob
 Johanssen and Dr Stewart McCain have all been recruited post-2014, whilst Professor Richardson
 received his chair and Dr Claire Norton was promoted to Reader during the assessment
 period. Leading international scholars such as Professor Allan H. Simmons have been retained
 and have deepened their involvement with the Unit. These examples demonstrate our success in
 retaining existing researchers, alongside the development and nurturing of a new generation of
 internationally excellent researchers.

          We have attracted emerging scholars to work in the Unit and have supported them in their
 career development. Johanssen arrived at St Mary’s in 2019 and his work bridges the disciplines
 of digital and social media and communication studies to link with psychoanalysis and
 psychosocial studies. His monograph Psychoanalysis and Digital Culture: Audiences, Social
 Media, and Big Data in 2019 (Routledge) was listed as part of Prof. Brett Kahr's Top 10
 Psychotherapy Books of the year on the website of the clinical organisation Confer and his
 research has been translated into French, German and Chinese. His next monograph Fantasy,
 Online Misogyny and the Manosphere: Male Bodies of Dis/Inhibition is forthcoming with Routledge
 in 2021.

         McCain arrived at St Mary’s in 2016 and is now Programme Director in History. His
 monograph, The Language Question under Napoleon, and an article with the OUP journal French
 History ‘Speaking like a State? Cultural Imperialism, Local Officials and Linguistic Imperialism in
 the Napoleonic Enquiry into the Patois (1806-1812)’ are both submitted as outputs.

 2. To develop research and public engagement activity through research-related events such as
 seminars, public lectures and conferences.

         These areas have been developed with partners nationally and internationally. Of note is
 the activity of the Conrad Centre in arranging for St Mary’s to host the 46th Annual International

                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Conference of The Joseph Conrad Society (UK) in 2019. In the Centre for History and Public
 Pasts, Professor Glenn Richardson convened a two-day conference entitled ‘Renaissance
 Cardinals: Diplomats and Patrons in the Early-Modern World’ in 2015, bringing together cross-
 disciplinary speakers from the UK, France, Spain, Italy, Portugal, the United States, Canada and
 Russia to consider the roles and significance of 15th-16th century cardinals. The proceedings
 were later published. In 2018 staff from the Centre also organised a public lecture series, ‘The
 Walpole History Lectures’, featuring discussions on ‘Churchill and the Myths of Brexit’ by the
 University Provost, Professor John Charmley. Richardson gave a paper on Wolsey, while
 Donnelly, McEneaney and Mills discussed the 1960s, presenting ‘Rethinking the Global 1960s: A
 Roundtable Discussion’.
 3. To encourage and support collaboration in research and in public engagement and impact.

           This area is covered in more depth in Section 4, but three examples of our success here
 provide a flavour of the work undertaken. Johanssen’s engagement with stakeholders beyond
 academia through submission of written evidence to the Digital, Culture, Media and Sport
 Committee (UK Parliament) and its inquiry on reality TV and mental health, as well as its inquiry
 on immersive and addictive technologies (both 2019). His written evidence was quoted in the
 official inquiry report on immersive and addictive technologies.

         Dr Maria Mellins’ research theoretically analyses victimhood through an exploration of
 crime and gender, the representation of victims, social media and stalking, while addressing
 narratives of the victim and previously unheard or excluded voices. Her research on the media
 and crime, delivered in the format of the podcast, analyses the representation and reception of
 true crime stories, especially on TV. Using this knowledge, Mellins has partnered with the Alice
 Ruggles Trust – promoting crime and safety awareness for teenagers in schools through the
 creation of training schemes presented by St Mary’s undergraduate students.

        With her memoir The Language of Kindness (2018), Christie Watson, who was Senior
 Lecturer in Creative Writing from 2016 to 2018, provided an influential first-hand account of twenty
 years at the frontline of nursing, that has affected the public discourse regarding the role of nurses
 in our society and how nursing shapes healthcare systems in substantial ways. Her work,
 discussed in the accompanying Impact Case Study, led to collaboration with the Royal College of
 Nursing, for which she has become a Patron, and saw her making speeches at the RCN annual
 conference.

 4. To develop support for, and attract, PGRs.

         As will be discussed in more depth in Section 2, we have worked over the assessment
 period to attract research students to the Unit and provide them with an excellent doctoral
 research programme to support their development to achieve success in their degrees and future
 careers. Furthermore, we have taken seriously the progress and development of the work
 of its ECRs. A good example of the developing and mentoring of staff is Salmons, who obtained
 her PhD from St Mary’s in 2015. She has published two Palgrave Macmillan monographs based
 on her completed thesis, one on Joseph Conrad and the other on Thomas Hardy, both of which
 are submitted as outputs for this Unit and are her first submissions for REF. She is now the
 University’s Associate Director for Academic Strategy and Associate Dean for Research and
 Enterprise.

         Dr Mary Burgoyne studied as both an undergraduate and post-graduate at St Mary’s
 University. In 2016 she successfully defended her PhD thesis on the publication contexts of
 Joseph Conrad’s shorter fiction and has been publishing her research on various aspects of
 Conrad since 2007. She is additionally an officer of the Joseph Conrad Society (UK), and manager
 of the Society’s website. Currently, she is co-editing, with Prof Allan Simmons, the first collection
 of correspondence by Conrad’s wife, Jessie.



                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 5. To support staff in research activity and dissemination.

        Again, much of the work in this area is described in Section 4. In the Conrad Centre
 Simmons is an eminent academic expert on Joseph Conrad and is the recipient of the Ian P. Watt
 Award for Lifetime Achievement in Conrad Studies from the Executive Committee of the Joseph
 Conrad Society of America, Simmons was commissioned to produce full textual histories of the
 work of Joseph Conrad by Cambridge University Press. With the late John H. Stape, Simmons
 has produced at least one volume annually of Conrad texts with scrupulously researched editorial
 notes and details from the original manuscript materials, letters and previously unknown Conrad
 correspondence. One of Simmons’ most recent works was awarded the Seal of the Committee
 on Scholarly Editions by the Modern Language Association of America.

        Salmons has convened two Joseph Conrad Study Days involving the participation of
 leading Conrad scholars as well as members of the public and English Literature students. The
 Centre has received small grants, for example from the British Academy, and in 2019 Salmons
 convened an annual international three-day Joseph Conrad conference, hosted by St Mary’s,
 which attracted over 60 scholars. She has also organised webinars and seminars to showcase
 the work of the Centre.

          Dr Jonathan Gibbs has disseminated research beyond the university and since 2017 has
 curated ‘A Personal Anthology’, sharing the fictional choices of twelve short story writers and
 critics, including a link to read or listen to the story online. The selections are archived, and the
 project offers a public insight into which fiction writers and their work have proved most influential
 to today’s authors, critics, and editors.

         In the Communications cluster, Johanssen has published widely in peer-reviewed journals
 and collaborated with scholars nationally and internationally. He was a co-investigator on the
 research project into Facial Disfigurement in the UK Media: ‘From Print to Online 2017’, partly
 funded by The Quintin Hogg Trust, leading to an edited collection for Routledge on Disability,
 Media, and Representations: Other Bodies in 2020. In 2020 he was Principal Investigator on a
 research project, funded by the EPSRC, which investigates employees’ use of apps for Covid-19
 safety at work.

         McCain submitted a cross-disciplinary proposal for a British Academy grant on the topic of
 migration. Although unsuccessful, the project would have included contributions from colleagues
 in English, Criminology and Sociology as well as from the charity Voice for Change outside of
 academia. Such applications show McCain establishing the cross-disciplinary approach of the
 Faculty and the new Institutes and demonstrates the direction of future collaborative approaches
 to grant funding applications.

 6. To encourage and support active membership of subject                          and    professional
 societies/associations and active involvement in refereed journals.

    The success of our activity in this area is described in Section 4 (below).



 2. People

 Staffing strategy and development

         The Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (2008/2019) informs
 the implementation of the Unit’s research strategy by supporting both researchers, supervisors
 and supervisees in developing integrity, probity, equality and diversity in the Unit’s research
 environment. Every new staff member and ECR considered to be a ‘developing researcher’ is
 allocated a research mentor (this is also available to all staff who request it). Staff meet with their
 Programme Director and the Associate Dean for Research on an annual basis to discuss and
 agree a Personal Research Plan (PRP) for the coming year. This covers all proposed research


                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 activity and the resources to be allocated for its successful execution. The Research Plans are
 reviewed on an annual basis and a report given to the University Research Office.

         Experienced researchers act as mentors for ECRs and research students, as was the case
 with Richardson for McCain and Simmons for Salmons. This is done through participation in
 research seminars, supervision and co-supervision of research students, and sharing experience
 of research, supervision, and publishing, especially with ECRs. The success of this approach in
 fostering the work of our ECRs can be seen in the inclusion of McCain’s research in the outputs
 for the Unit.

         All staff within the Unit are expected to inform their teaching through appropriate research
 and scholarly activity, whether this is subject-focused research, pedagogic research, research
 resulting in publications, or ongoing engagement with the discipline. To assist in this, all staff are
 encouraged to attend the research seminars run by Paull, then Salmons, which include
 presentations from staff, postgraduate students and invited external speakers and which are
 attended by staff, MA and research students.

         St Mary’s has implemented a targeted scheme of teaching relief to support research and
 impact activity. Staff from the Unit are invited annually to bid for a semester’s sabbatical to conduct
 research or to write up findings. For example, McEneaney had sabbatical leave in 2017-
 18; Mills had sabbatical leave in 2017 to enable him to complete his monograph on The
 Beatles; Mellins had sabbatical leave to work on her book in 2018; Richardson had a semester’s
 leave 2017-2018 for his monograph on Cardinal Wolsey and Norton had sabbatical leave during
 2019-20 to undertake research for the ‘Teaching Christian-Muslim relations’ project. The Unit has
 also supported Salmons who has developed her academic career at St Marys progressing from
 an undergraduate to a postgraduate in English, and now working as the Assistant Director for
 Academic Strategy and one of the Associate Deans for Research with Paull.

        The University’s workload model promotes the recognition of research activity in line with
 the annual staff appraisal scheme via the allocation of Significant Responsibility for
 Research. Staff present both an account of their research during the last REF cycle, and look
 forward, presenting a three-year plan for research, applications, grants and external funding as
 well a narrative for creating impact. There are clear procedures for promotions to Associate
 Professor and Professor.

         As a small and specialist institution, St Mary’s University has invested in, and has
 benefitted from, membership of the GuildHE’s Consortium for Research Excellence, Support and
 Training (CREST), a body of 27 HEIs working together to develop research potential. Staff and
 students at SMU have thus been enabled to attend symposia, workshops and conferences across
 a range of disciplines at CREST partner institutions.

 Staff development

        All staff in the Unit have access to either the Faculty QR budget or that of their Institute.
 Under the former School structure, the Research Committee allowed six bidding opportunities per
 academic year, while under the Faculty structure applications are received all year round, in
 accordance with the research strategy and policy on staff development. The Research
 Committee was made up of representatives from across the Faculty. Now each Institute has its
 own research committee and bids will be made in line with the policy of each Institute.

         Bids are made for research-related activities such as: giving papers at conferences,
 teaching remission, visits to libraries or collections, buying in research assistants and the purchase
 of equipment. In addition, staff can claim up to £300 per year each for staff development to be
 spent on conference attendance, equipment (such as digital recorders) or training courses.
 Research students can claim up to £340 per year for similar activities and can bid for further funds
 if required. Research across the Institutes and Faculty is shared via public events, research
 seminars and lectures, open to all staff and external visitors.


                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Students

         During the HESA returns period from August 2013 to July 2020 eleven PhD students were
 awarded their degrees in the Unit. St Mary’s offers regular in-house training in research methods,
 publishing and use of research materials and staff. Doctoral students are encouraged to present
 in the research seminar series, which runs in both autumn and spring semesters. These seminars
 give research students the opportunity to perform in front of a friendly audience and benefit from
 constructive feedback from colleagues and peers. The establishment of the Doctoral College has
 provided a mutually supportive environment for students.

          The University’s application for Research Degree Awarding Powers was approved on 16
 March 2021, and we will be able to award research degrees from 1 April 2021. During the period
 covered by this report, our cohort was registered at Liverpool Hope University. St Mary’s
 supplements Liverpool’s monitoring system with its own progress monitoring review under the
 aegis of the University Committee for Research which reviews the support and training provided
 to all research students through the Annual Report and Interim Review processes.

         A research students’ ‘Module’ is hosted on the St Mary’s Virtual Learning Environment.
 This contains all relevant administrative documents and research programme resources. A central
 PGR skills training programme is provided at St Mary’s in addition to the sessions available at
 Unit level. We have undertaken to create an environment that supports and values the PGR
 community, enabling them to blossom within the Unit. Each student is attached to a research
 centre or cluster and as well as the programme of Unit-led events each centre/cluster actively
 involves its students in conferences, colloquia, seminars etc. All registered PhD students are
 required to have a minimum of eight formal PhD supervisions per annum – with most exceeding
 this.

         Progress is closely monitored with both the interim review and annual review each year,
 the results of which are discussed at the Institute sub-committee for research. The annual review
 requires each student to produce a 2000-word report about which they are questioned at the hour-
 long review meeting by their supervisory team. In line with Liverpool Hope regulations the progress
 of each student is reviewed mid-way through their course in a Confirmation Review. This requires
 a 20,000-word report detailing their progress to date and an in-depth interview with the supervisory
 team and external auditors.

         Doctoral students are encouraged to publish, both as sole authors, or jointly with their
 supervisors or with other academics within their field. In English Foster continues to provide
 research support and mentoring to her former PhD student Bolibaugh. They have presented
 several joint conference papers between 2017-18 in July 2016: at the University of Lancaster, at
 the EuroSLA annual conference 2017; at Reading in 2017; and at the 2018 AAAL annual
 conference, Chicago, USA. Foster has also published with Hunter. Harker-Shaw, a PhD student
 in English, set up an annual student conference where students present papers.

          In 2018-19 History appointed Mecham, a former PhD student, as one of two Visiting
 Research Fellows. Mecham’s PhD thesis was published as William Walker, A Biography, (2019)
 by Umiskin Press, Dublin, in 2019 and was launched in London by leading Irish historian Lord
 Paul Bew. Throughout his PhD research Mecham presented conference papers in Britain and
 Ireland, including the annual Irish Labour History Society (ILHS) lecture in 2018 and published an
 article in the Society's annual journal.

        In addition to Mecham there were two further PhD completions in History, Lambe and
 Regan, who were supervised by Richardson, Norton and Donnelly. There are currently two
 students who continue to be supervised jointly between Donnelly, McCain and Richardson. Foster
 has supervised four PhD students to completion and continues to supervise three other PhD
 students. Foster has been an external examiner for four PhDs, at the University of Lancaster
 in2014, at the University of Bristol in 2015 and 2018, and at the University of Lancaster in 2015.

       Cross disciplinary co-supervision is also prominent in English. Baxter’s PhD is supervised
 between English and Drama with Paull, Foster and Walker. Baxter’s work on the menopause and
                                                                                           Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 healthcare supports the University’s interest in promoting health and wellbeing amongst staff,
 students and the wider community. English also encourages interdisciplinary collaborations
 between PhD students in different departments across the Faculty, and Baxter is part of the of the
 research cluster on ‘Sex/Gender’, a group formed of staff and students. Baxter was asked to
 contribute to a wider discussion of the menopause outside of the academe, when in March 2019
 she was asked to write a Blog post - ‘Taboo-busting: Menopause’ for the International Society of
 Critical Health Psychology (ISCP) website, demonstrating that research students are engaged in
 bringing their research into the wider local, national and international communities.

         Panoutsos, another cross-disciplinary PhD student supervised by Simmons, Paull and
 Walker, integrates his research into the strand of performance and wellbeing in the The Faculty of
 Sport, Allied Health and Performance Sciences, arguing for a ‘cool down’ process for actors after
 their performances, thus suggesting links between the performance process of elite sportspeople
 and actors. Panoutsos took this work into the wider local community by establishing a link with
 The Orange Tree fringe theatre in Richmond and using his research to help actors performing in
 touring productions to schools across the country to monitor, maintain and reflect upon their own
 wellbeing as performers. Panoutsos is also working with theatre companies in Greece and Vienna.

         Postgraduates are also encouraged to become part of research clusters. This assists them
 in collaborating on matters such as; organising seminars, reading groups, grant applications, the
 submission of papers to journals, developing national and international networks and appropriate
 contacts and databases, and maintaining a web presence. Each cluster has a leader who has
 responsibilities to help mentor staff, to organise meetings of the cluster and to provide a point of
 contact for the University Director of Research and Public Engagement. Clusters report to the
 Research Committee, which feeds back to the University Research Committee.

 Equality and Diversity

         Consistent with the University’s core value of inclusiveness, the Unit has a commitment to
 providing equal research opportunities regardless of age, race, gender, religion, or sexual
 orientation. Of the staff returned in the Unit, 52.9% are female. The staff returned also includes
 full and part-time staff, and early career and experienced researchers. Among the eleven
 postgraduate students, eight are female and three are from BAME backgrounds. Paull is part of
 the St Mary’s team involved in an application to Athena Swan for a Bronze award. The submission,
 planned for April 2022, embodies the commitment to implementing the Equality and Inclusion staff
 group action plan developed in response to recruitment data around BAME, gender disability and
 age.

          The present pandemic conditions have made online supervision and seminars
 more important than ever, and we have continued to fully support our students in an online and
 digitally interactive fashion. Thus, students who may have been affected detrimentally by the
 pandemic due to their individual circumstances have had their situation ameliorated.

         Where staff and research students have caring responsibilities, family needs (including the
 need for parental leave) and long-term illness, then these are considered when allocating funding,
 leave and other resources. The allocation of these resources is regularly monitored by the
 Research Committee to ensure it is fairly distributed according to the University’s Equality,
 Diversity and Inclusion Policy Statement (2020).

         See www.stmarys.ac.uk/services-departments/HumanResources/equality-diversity-
 inclusion/SiteAssets/Pages/Equality

         Two specific examples illustrate this wider commitment. Paull has encouraged the
 development of ECR BAME staff in Drama to join the register of approved supervisory team
 members so that they can be added to a student supervisory team as soon as an opportunity
 arises. Finally, Howell organised and ran a successful two-day conference hosted by the English
 department in association with the National Trust and Strawberry Hill House, which was funded
 by the trustees of the National Trust (providing subsidised travel and accommodation for selected

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 speakers, and other costs with an external grant of £6,000) as part of their 'Prejudice and Pride'
 LGBTQ+ history activities - 140 people attended.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

         Staff continue to use QR and CPD funds to support their attendance at conferences and
 for activities to support their subject associations. Research income generated for the Unit until
 July 2020 was £22,945. Applications for further external funds are already in process: Richardson
 is currently a member of two funding bids. The first is an Historic Royal Palaces AHRC Standard
 Research Grant application for the ‘Temporary Magnificence: The Ephemerality of Early Modern
 Courts’ project. The decision on this bid has been delayed because of Covid-19. Richardson is
 also one of five co-investigators on an AHRC Standard Research Grant application for £500,000
 entitled ‘Royal Masculinities in England 1485-1714’, a collaboration with scholars from the
 Universities of Cambridge, Keele, Bangor and Huddersfield. The result of this bid is expected in
 Spring 2021.
        Johanssen is currently Principal Investigator on a research project, funded by the EPSRC,
 which investigates employees’ use of apps that aim to make workplaces Covid-safe (awarded in
 August 2020 - FEC £16,533, 80% contribution by EPSRC, 20% contribution by St. Mary's).

          Salmons secured a £2,000 grant from the School of Advanced Study to promote the
 Humanities and Liberal Arts through a one-day event as part of the national Being Human Festival.
 The event took place in November 2020 and drew on her research into food and literature to
 explore nationality, migration and identity through food and music. This interdisciplinary
 event featured contributions from Drama and professional cross-cultural musicians from outside
 the University, creating a public engagement activity which attracted over 100 members of the
 public. Salmons has also gained a license to run TEDx talks so that staff in the Unit, the new
 Institute and visiting researchers and experts, will be able to share their research internationally in
 the next academic year. This will further raise the profile of research in the Unit and promote
 awareness of staff research for future investment.

 Funding plans

          Securing future external grants from funding councils and other bodies is a priority for the
 Unit. The mentoring of less experienced staff to make stronger external applications has been
 identified and the development of further university support for writing and developing grant bids
 is a strategic aim. All staff are supported to make external bids, either through informal
 mentoring and advice, as well as structured support from the Research Office which will direct
 staff towards those who could provide feedback to help improve draft grant and funding
 bid applications. Interdisciplinary bids are also to be encouraged and developed in future, as well
 as bids as partners with other national and international institutions, both within the academy and
 outside. We are looking to create joint projects on migration studies between History,
 Politics, Drama and English, as well as expanding upon the theme of wellbeing. This will develop
 the work of Baxter and Panoutsos in Drama and the work of Gordon in the Institute of Education
 as well as through the study of the psychology of sports performance.

 Scholarly infrastructure supporting research

        The development and support of research in the Unit has been encouraged by the
 appointment of an Associate Dean for Research and Enterprise, initially Edwards-Leis from
 Education. Due to the extensive nature of this role, it was subsequently divided between two staff,
 allowing Paull to focus on REF related matters, staff research and the Research Committee, while
 Salmons focuses on PGR students, Early Career Researchers and the development and
 expansion of the Faculty research seminars. Further strategic planning as part of the University’s
 RDAP application process saw the development of St Mary’s Doctoral College which has given
 the Unit’s full-time and part-time research students doctoral study space at Naylor Library.


                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         Moreover, regulations for formation and ongoing activity and reporting were processed
 through Faculties and the University Research Committee from 2018. In 2019 the first review
 process was put in place, which gave detailed oversight and shared best practice such as
 providing a lively research environment for PGR students and staff to develop their research,
 writing, and presentation skills. In 2020 an online Moodle space was established for all PGR
 students as a central repository and forum site for sharing of research and a detailed site to
 disseminate the research activities of the Faculty.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 English

        Aside from the collaborative work mentioned above, there are further collaborative events
 taking place as part of the development of a wider collective research culture in the University.
 Salmons organised The Festival of Humanities in March 2020 where staff across disciplines
 discussed their research in a free public festival which included music, poetry, seminars,
 workshops and artistic events that took place over a two-day period, allowing the dissemination of
 research from Donnelly, Hackett and Mills.

         The bulk of the work of staff submitting to the Unit is focused on delivering teaching to
 undergraduates and postgraduates, but staff have continued to make considerable contributions
 in the period 2014-2020 to the research base, economy and society through the strong tradition
 of communicating research to the local community. As well as writing original fiction, Gibbs also
 contributes readings and chairs events every year at the Richmond Literary Festival. The social
 impact of the work of Watson, for Creative Writing, is detailed in the Impact Case Study - her work
 has helped to make connections with the wider community for creative writing as a form, by
 establishing a new genre of life-writing which draws attention to the importance of health and well-
 being.

         Mills has held local lectures and discussion groups about his most recent monograph, The
 Beatles and Fandom: Sex, Death, and Progressive Nostalgia (2019), hosting events at the
 Twickenham arts venue The Exchange, as well giving talks for local historical societies,
 conducting public walks, and running short courses on The Beatles at The Exchange. He has also
 been interviewed about the Beatles for Sky News. Salmons continues a regular series of talks
 about Conrad, food, migration and identity with partners outside of the academy through her
 lectures for the University of the Third Age, The Guild of Food Writers, and lectures on Conrad for
 the Polish community in London.

          Paull has collaborated outside the academy by working alongside a professional
 documentary maker as part of the film When Hitchcock Met O’Casey (2019). Paull was filmed and
 interviewed by director Brian O’Flaherty for the documentary which was released at the Dublin
 Film Festival 2019. Paull has also presented pre- and post-performance lectures and discussions
 on Bernard Shaw, including ‘Bernard Shaw and Widower’s Houses’ at The Park Theatre, London
 2014. She is a Committee member and Trustee of the Irish Literary Society in London (founded
 by W.B. Yeats), as well as a member of The Shaw Society of the UK, and the International Shaw
 Society. Paull has also lectured to the wider community on other Irish writers including Nancy
 Harris as part of ‘The Irish in Britain’ series, Irish Studies Network, (London 2015) and across
 disciplines in ‘Edwardian drama on the small screen’ conference at the British Film Institute,
 (London 2014). Paull maintains an interest in wellbeing and mental health, which is a focus of St
 Mary’s as a University and co-organised ‘The Mad Woman in the Arctic – Theatre and Mental
 Health’ conference at St Mary’s in July 2018 with Kasia Zaremba-Byrne from Drama.
 History

         Richardson’s research has been called upon regularly during 2020, the 500th anniversary
 of the Field of Cloth of Gold. He has written articles for BBC History and History Today magazines
 alongside his work as a historical advisor on the exhibition Gold and Glory: Henry VIII and the
 French King at Hampton Court Palace. He has also recorded podcasts and interviews for a range
                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of Tudor history websites and for Dan Snow’s ‘History Hit’ website, for which he provided a short
 overview of the Field of Cloth of Gold. Richardson contributed to the Oxford Festival of the
 Arts in July 2020; recording twenty short podcasts, one for each day of the Field of Cloth of Gold,
 using images and describing key events. He delivered a prestigious Gresham College lecture on
 the subject remotely and gave a lecture at the online public conference on the Field of Cloth of
 Gold organised by The Royal Armouries, Leeds in July 2020. In the same month, his monograph
 on Wolsey was published by Routledge.

         Norton has been working on a public history project concerned with ‘Teaching Christian-
 Muslim Relations’. It is hoped that this will become an impact case study in the next research
 cycle. She has collaborated with schoolteachers to produce materials on this subject for use in
 classrooms. The aim of the project is to promote discussion and awareness of how the religious
 ‘other’ has been perceived and characterised through time. The materials, which are divided into
 six lessons, are designed to provide additional content to the curriculum and to be used as a
 special humanities project on Christian-Muslim relations. For example, the lesson on the Mughals
 could be used as part of the KS3 ‘Significant Societies in World History’ topic. Similarly, some of
 the material on Mediterranean slavery and the Ottoman Empire could supplement lessons on
 Tudor England, especially the reign of Queen Elizabeth.

 Communications

        Collaborative publications are a recurrent feature in outputs for Communications. Hackett’s
 research collaborations connect popular culture, music and cinema. He has co-written the
 monograph Scary Monsters: Masculinity, Monstrosity and Popular Music Culture (Bloomsbury,
 2020) together with Dr Mark Duffett (University of Chester). As lead of the Communications
 Research Cluster Hackett edited three collections for John Libbey Press, Beasts of the Deep: Sea
 Creatures and Popular Culture (2018); Beasts of the Forest: Denizens of the Dark Woods (2019);
 Beasts of the Sky: Strange Sightings in the Stratosphere (2020). Eleven chapters were authored
 by St Mary’s academics across these three publications, which Hackett promoted to encourage
 colleagues to publish, including those with no or few academic publications.

        Johanssen, is similarly collaborative with external colleagues in his field, for example, he
 worked with Steffen Krüger (University of Oslo) on two journal articles (2014, 2016) and one
 special issue (2016), with Professor Candida Yates (Bournemouth University), Lynn Froggett
 (UClan) and Darren Ellis (University of East London) on one ESRC grant (2018, unsuccessful),
 and one Leverhulme standard grant (2018, 2020, both unsuccessful) with Diana Garrisi (Xi’An
 Jiatong-Liverpool University, China) on a funded research project (2017), an academic conference
 (2017), two journal articles (2017) and an edited collection (2020), with Professor Xin Wang
 (Liaoning University, China) on a journal article (2019) and with Professor Hsuan-Ying Huang (The
 Chinese University of Hong Kong) on a grant application (unsuccessful 2020).
         Sanders has collaborated with Maria Jose Canel (Complutense University Madrid), Vilma
 Luoma-aho Jyväskylä (University School of Business and Economics, Finland), María Sánchez
 Valle (CEU San Pablo University, Madrid), Rosa Berganza (Rey Juan Carlos University, Madrid),
 Leonard Franchi (University of Glasgow), Elena García-Gutierrez (University of Navarra), and
 Maria de la Viesca (Campus Bio-Medico, Rome). Sanders was Spain’s representative in the
 COST action 1318 of the European Union-funded ‘Populist Political Communication in Europe:
 Comprehending the Challenge of Mediated Political Populism for Democratic Politics 2013-2018’
 network of 29 countries. Sanders is also the founder director of the interdisciplinary research group
 ‘Communication, citizenship and the public sphere’ based in CEU San Pablo University and
 recipient of research project funding for 2015-2016 on the subject of ‘Populismo y Narrativas de
 Exclusión: El Caso Español’ (‘Populism and narratives of exclusion: the Spanish case’). Sanders
 maintains a strong professorial profile outside St Mary’s and was a keynote speaker to the
 Universita Santa Croce, Rome (2020), Blackfriars College, University of Oxford, 2018, Basque
 Country University, San Sebastian, Spain (2018), University of Leeds (2017), University of

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Middlesex (2017) and to the regional government of Alicante, Alicante (2014) and the International
 Government Communication Forum UAE, 2014.
 Philosophy

         Altorf was part of an Erasmus €450,000 grant bid on the topic of ‘Human Rights and
 Dialogue in Education’ with University College of Southeast Norway while she was a Research
 Fellow there for one year - an application which included academics from Germany, Turkey and
 Iraq. Although unsuccessful, the research was reviewed as 3-4* work and put on the reserve list
 for funding. Altorf was invited to give the keynote speech on ‘Iris Murdoch and Philosophy’ at
 University of Pardubice in 2019 and has given conference papers and public academic lectures
 at University of Durham, & Roehampton. Altorf also reviews for the journals Literature and
 Theology, European Journal of Philosophy, British Journal of Aesthetics and Teaching Philosophy,
 as well as reviewing books for Routledge and Bloomsbury.

          Erden is currently part of an ESRC bid for a Synergy Grant 2020. Erden regularly gives
 conference papers at the Universities of Oxford and Westminster. Erden is on the Executive
 Commitee for the Royal Institute of Philosophy and runs their lecture series at St Mary’s. Erden
 gives lectures to the wider community outside of the academe to the West London and to Barnes
 Philosophy Clubs as well as to Age UK in Richmond, focusing on the bringing the discipline out of
 the academy and into the wider public. Erden is Vice Chair of The Society for the Study of Artificial
 Intelligence and Simulation of Behaviour (AISB), and Organiser of the AISB Convention at St
 Mary’s, 2020 (postponed due to Covid-19), which attracted 75 speakers across 9
 parallel symposia and workshops. Erden also works as an Independent Expert in Ethics for the
 European Commission, evaluating research funding applications.

 Publication highlights

         Staff in the Unit have been substantially involved in their professional associations and
 associated editorial work during the assessment period. Simmons is on the Executive Committee
 of the Joseph Conrad Society UK; his editorial positions include (with the late John Stape) Co-
 General Editor of The Cambridge Edition of the Works of Joseph Conrad and of the Conrad
 Studies series; General Editor of The Conradian. Stape was Advisory Editor.

        Foster is part of the Editorial Board for Language Teaching Research. and reviews
 for Language Teaching Research, Classroom Discourse, Applied Linguistics, Australian Review
 of Applied Linguistics, Canadian Modern Language Review, International Journal of Applied
 Linguistics, Issues in Applied Linguistics, French Language Studies, Language Learning, TESL
 Canada Journal, TESOL Quarterly and Applied Psycholinguistics. Salmons is an Executive
 Committee Member and Conference Secretary for the Joseph Conrad Society (UK) and the Book
 Review Editor for the Joseph Conrad Society of America. She is also a peer reviewer for the
 academic list of Taylor & Francis.

         Norton is co-editor responsible for the Ottoman Empire in AHRC-funded bibliographical
 history project Christian-Muslim Relations: A Bibliographical History 1500-1900 (CMR1900)
 and co-editor of Anatolian Studies. Norton is on the editorial board of the journals Rethinking
 History and Studies in Religion. McCain is Reviews editor of French History, Richardson is on the
 Editorial Board of The Court Historian, the journal of the Society for Court Studies.

        Staff in the Unit also review for the following publications Modern Language Review,
 Conradiana, English Literature in Transition, Conrad Studies, Joseph Conrad Today; Literature
 and Theology, European Journal of Philosophy, British Journal of Aesthetics, Teaching
 Philosophy; Studies in Theatre and Performance, Comedy Studies (Routledge) and
 Adaptation (OUP), International Journal of Communication (IJoC), Psychoanalysis, Culture and
 Society, Distinktion: Journal of Social Theory, Networking Knowledge, Journal of Bodies,
 Sexualities and Masculinities; Capacious: Journal for Emerging Affect Inquiry, Routledge,
 Palgrave, Wiley-Blackwell and MIT Press, The Society of Ethnobiology, Journalism Studies,


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Journalism: Theory and Practice, International Journal of Press and Politics, and Strategic
 Communication sections of the European Communication Research and Education Association.

 Leading Positions in Professional Associations

        Foster is peer reviewer for the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC), an Editorial
 Board Member of the ‘International Review of Applied Linguistics’, ‘Language Teaching Research’
 and ‘Classroom Discourse’ and a peer reviewer for fifteen journals including: Applied Linguistics;
 Language Learning and Modern Language Review. Foster is a member of three societies and
 professional associations and a member of the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC).

         Johanssen was appointed as Founder Scholar of the British Psychoanalytic Council (BPC,
 the professional registration body for the UK’s leading psychoanalytical practitioners) in 2019 and
 is co-editor of the Counterspace section of the journal Psychoanalysis, Culture & Society. Norton
 was a member of the Managing Council of The British Institute at Ankara (BIAA) – an overseas
 school of the British Academy from 2012-16 and is on the BIAA publication and research
 committees.

         Norton was a member of the Managing Council of the Society for Renaissance Studies
 and served on article prizes, postgraduate fellowships and study leave committees. Norton was
 also an expert panel member for Cult3: History and Archaeology of the grant body FWO (Research
 Foundation Flanders), (2016-18). McCain and Richardson are both members of the Committee of
 the Society for the Study of French History and are Fellows of the Royal Historical Society.
 Richardson became a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of London in 2015 and was made an
 Honorary Fellow of the Historical Association in recognition of his public engagement work.
 Donnelly, Hackett, Paull and Salmons are Senior Fellows of the Higher Education Academy;
 Norton, McCain and Richardson are Fellows of the HEA.

 Conclusion

           The Unit is a vibrant collaborative collective of staff who research within and across distinct
 disciplines. The submitted Research drawn from the Institutes and Faculty, demonstrates a lively
 and varied engagement with contemporary critical narratives of culture, politics and society. Staff
 in the Unit also contribute to contemporary social discourse with informed and scholarly narratives,
 facilitating understanding and presenting new knowledge in a wide field of the Humanities.




                                                                                                  Page 13
