Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Anglia Ruskin University

 Unit of Assessment: 28: History

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and Structure

 The History UoA at Anglia Ruskin University is located within the School of Humanities and
 Social Sciences (HSS). We are a focussed unit (6.0 FTEs) committed to fostering original
 research and interdisciplinary collaboration, combining the highest academic standards with
 significant impact beyond the academy, especially community engagement. A thriving body of
 scholars, we engage in a wide range of research, temporally and thematically, from early
 modern history of smell, 19th century popular culture, 20th century Russian political history, 20th
 century British and American politics to British gender and race relations. ARU creates a working
 environment that allows us to sustain our research activity whilst also actively engaging in high-
 quality teaching and external activities.

 Our work aligns with ARU’s strategy to strengthen its research environment, a key part of which,
 as outlined in the Research & Innovation Strategy 2018-2022, is the identification of eleven
 thematic areas linked to core research strengths as a means to prioritise investment.
 Specifically, the thematic commitment to ‘social inclusion and marginalised communities’ speaks
 to our research focus on marginalised people of the past and our impact focus on contemporary
 public engagement in relation to both marginalised communities and social inclusivity.

 Our research falls into two broad areas: A) modern political history; B) social and cultural history.
 The institutional theme, and shared concerns around focussing on histories that have relevance
 to today’s society and impact contemporary lives, are embedded in the work carried out in both
 areas.

 Modern political history is sustained by our Labour History Research Unit (LHRU) (established in
 2008) which plays an important strategic role in supporting part of the research and impact
 activities of our UoA (see ICS 2). Staff members include Carr, Davis, McWilliam, and Professor
 Emerita Joannou. Carr works on various aspects of 20th century political history, his most recent
 book being March of the Moderates: Bill Clinton, Tony Blair and the Rebirth of Progressive
 Politics, I.B. Tauris, 2019. Davis is a Russian historian (his most recent book being Historical
 Dictionary of the Russian Revolution, Rowman & Littlefield, 2020) but he also works on the
 history of Labour Party, as seen in his and McWilliam’s co-edited book Labour and the Left in the
 1980s, MUP, 2018 (in REF2). McWilliam authored the influential report ‘Labour Renewal Project’
 (April 2020). This report, along with three short films (about the report and books March of the
 Moderates and Labour and the Left in the 1980s) are on the LHRU website. With its interest in
 labour politics, LHRU’s research focusses on social and political inclusion. LHRU’s general
 commitment to partnership, collaboration and interdisciplinarity is illustrated by its extensive and
 productive links to other institutions such as the campaign group Cambridge Commons. Also
 included within this research area is Blaxill (Leverhulme Early Career Fellow, 2016-2019) whose
 focus is on issues of political inclusion/exclusion. During his time with us, we supported him in
 writing his substantial monograph The War of Words: The Language of British Elections, 1880-
 1914, Boydell & Brewer, 2020.

 Social and cultural history encompasses Bland, Hewitt, McWilliam, Tullett (and Flavin 2016-
 2018) as well as Joannou. This research cluster also investigates the themes of marginalisation
 and social inclusion/exclusion. Bland has been researching the mixed-race children born in
 World War II to black GIs and British women, charting their marginalisation as well as sharing
 with LHRU a concern to focus on a history that impacts contemporary lives. This is documented
 in ICS1 and in her Britain’s ‘Brown Babies’: the stories of children born to black GIs and white
 women in the Second World War, MUP, 2019 (in REF2). Tullett’s work on 18th century smell
 (and the senses more generally) plots the ways in which the senses have been used to mark the

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 boundaries of communities as inclusion/exclusion, for example the use of smell to marginalise
 racial others. Joannou has undertaken progressive public history on two fronts: in 2014/5 to
 record, 30 years on, the voices of certain miners and their supporters during the1984/85 strike,
 and in 2018 to commemorate women suffragists and female labour activists – women
 marginalised during their lifetimes and beyond.


 Research and Impact Strategy

 Following REF 2014, the History UoA has strengthened its research and impact considerably. It
 has consolidated its position and delivered on all three of its 2014 strategic priorities:
     1) enhancement of research income through successful bids
     2) continued production of high-quality publications
     3) increasing research student numbers and ensuring a good record of PhD completions.
 Together, these priorities facilitate public engagement, knowledge exchange and a vital and
 sustainable research and impact environment.

 Priority 1: Enhancement of Research Income through Successful Bids

 We have significantly enhanced our research income generation since REF 2014. While the
 £76,415 reported in REF4b (plus an additional £12k not reported to HESA, see section 3 below)
 represents a huge rise over the £7,211 reported for the last period, it does not include two major
 successes. In July 2018, Flavin (appointed as an ECR in 2016) was awarded an ERC Starter
 grant of £1.48m for a 5-year interdisciplinary, collaborative project on ‘Food in Ireland,1550-
 1650’: ’FOODCULT’ (https://foodcult.eu/). Due to Brexit uncertainty, from January 2019 Flavin
 moved to Trinity College, Dublin, with its guarantee of full funding for the ERC project. This
 proved a harbinger of further European success. Tullett, appointed (also as an ECR) to replace
 Flavin, has, in collaboration with colleagues in Amsterdam and elsewhere, won a £2.8m Horizon
 2020 grant for a project entitled Odeuropa (https://odeuropa.eu/) looking at smell and the
 digitisation of European cultural heritage. Tullett was informed of the win in July 2020 with the
 project starting in January 2021. We also had success in obtaining a £72,000 Leverhulme Trust
 Early Career Fellowship, supporting Blaxill for 36 months from October 2016 and won a number
 of small grants. (More information about all the grants in Section 3 below.)

 Priority 2: Continued Production of High-Quality Publications

 Over the REF period, the UoA has produced 16 high-quality monographs, the vast majority
 published by prestigious academic and university publishers such as Oxford University Press,
 Manchester University Press and Routledge. Those not mentioned in REF2 include Richard Carr
 (with Bradley W. Hart), The Global 1920s, Routledge, 2016; and Richard Carr, Charlie Chaplin:
 a political biography from Victorian Britain to Modern America, Routledge, 2017. The UoA has
 also published 19 articles in peer-reviewed journals, including William Tullett, ‘Grease and
 Sweat: Race and Smell in Eighteenth-Century English Culture’, Cultural and Social History,
 13.3.2016, the most-read article in this journal ever.

 Our publications can be divided into our two broad research areas. In relation to modern political
 history, Carr’s March of the Moderates, along with Davis’s The Global 1980s, Routledge, 2019,
 and Davis and McWilliam (eds) Labour and the Left in the 1980s are facilitating an important
 reassessment of 1980s’ history and politics. March of the Moderates was described as ‘brilliant
 [with] fresh insights’ by Mail on Sunday’s James Heale and ‘essential reading for any Labour
 supporter’ by Tides of History, who named it one of their 2019 Books of the Year. Carr’s
 research, especially his think-tank reports, are regularly drawn on by local councils, as ICS2
 demonstrates. In relation to social and cultural history, McWilliam and Sarah Louise Lill (eds)
 Edward Lloyd and his World, Routledge, 2019 produced strong media reaction, including a
 Times leader column in June 2019 and articles in the Telegraph and Guardian, due to this being
 the first book to address early Victorian plagiarisms of Dickens. McWilliam’s London's West End:

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Creating the Pleasure District, 1800-1914, OUP, 2020 (in REF2) has received very positive
 reviews, Jerry White writing in the TLS: ‘McWilliam explores this rich terrain with passion and
 panache. He has a sharp eye for telling details…[A] very considerable achievement’. A review of
 Bland’s Britain’s ‘Brown Babies’ in Women’s History called the book ‘a tremendous achievement,
 with important findings for stories of migration, Black Britain, childhood and family alike.’ Karen
 Harvey on fivebooks.com referred to Tullett’s Smell in Eighteenth-Century England: A Social
 Sense, OUP, 2019 (in REF2) as ‘one of the 5 best books on the history of the body’, a ‘tour de
 force’. In September 2019 we showcased our work and engaged with the wider community at a
 well-attended book-launch (over 50 attendees) which advertised and celebrated our UoA’s
 historical research. Collectively our publication activity has enhanced staff reputations through
 good reviews and wide media attention.

 Priority 3: Increasing the Number of Research Students and PhD Completions

 In the 2014 REF submission, our UoA had five PGRs (and three completions), although the
 history staff contributed to five other inter-disciplinary supervisory teams. As of 31July 2020 we
 have twelve PGRs. In late 2013 we had one PhD completion, two in 2018 (one of whom had
 won a competitive departmental studentship), and two in 2019. In 2018 we also had one MPhil
 completion. We had anticipated a total of eight History PhD completions within the REF
 timeframe, including three in the period April-July 2020, but these were delayed until after the
 census date, due to Covid-19. Total completions have thus risen from three (in 2014) to five.

 During the current REF period we developed one important new priority:

 Priority 4: Ensuring the vitality and sustainability of impact and public engagement

 This new priority is part of our wider strategy concerning the relevance of history for today’s
 society. All staff in the UoA are involved across a range of projects. Joannou is an example of
 such a commitment, being the driving force behind CamVOTE100 in 2018, organising numerous
 talks, a conference and plays commemorating the suffrage centenary. She was also
 instrumental in the erection of blue plaques in Cambridge, 2018-2020, for three largely forgotten,
 one-time prominent women: suffragist Millicent Fawcett, social reformer and Cambridge county
 councillor Clara Rackham, and Labour MP Leah Manning. Further, she undertook oral histories
 with former striking miners and their supporters, as mentioned above.

 We have routinely used RAND Europe to help us think strategically about pathways to impact,
 knowledge exchange and public engagement. Our commitment to such activities is best
 exemplified by our two impact case studies. ICS1 (‘War Babies of Black GIs and British
 Women’), which gives voice to a neglected aspect of black British history, is explicitly about a
 marginalised community (of approximately 2,000) and how speaking of their situation has given
 them a sense of belonging. The case study also entailed extensive public engagement, as the
 children’s narratives have been disseminated widely and enthusiastically received. ICS2
 (‘Helping local government create new revenue streams through entrepreneurial activities’) has
 seen Carr build on the overarching themes in his academic research through reports for the
 Westminster think tank Localis. These reports have driven shifts in the way English councils
 operate, including the generation of significant new income to keep services and workforces in
 place during tough economic times. This is evidenced by both public minutes and the testimony
 of key local government figures.

 Open Access

 Our UoA remains firmly committed to the move towards open access as per the University Open
 Access Policy. UoA members benefit from University-wide services, such as the Anglia Ruskin
 Online Repository (ARRO) for green open access (in line with REF requirements).

 As part of our commitment to open access, we are keen to focus on both digitising certain
 primary sources and using the results of digitisation in our research. Digitisation is central to our

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mission to make the past accessible to a broad public. Once her physical exhibition on the
 ‘Brown Babies’ research was closed in March, due to Covid-19, Bland wrote and curated a
 digital exhibition for the online website Mixed Museum (www.mixedmuseum.org.uk/brown-
 babies/) which went live in September 2020, enabling world-wide access. Alongside exhibitions
 and museum smell kits, Tullett’s Horizon 2020-funded project has been planned to utilise big
 data, machine learning, and semantic web to craft open-source digital tools and an online
 encyclopaedia of smell heritage that will be freely accessible to the public. Tullett’s collaborative
 work with Australian scholars on ‘Visions of the Future Since 1800’, ‘Future Intimacies’ and
 ‘Emotion, Language, and Environmental Disaster’, will entail an online digital exhibition, an open
 access blog and a two-day undergraduate digital history workshop at ARU.

 Our UoA is developing a team project entitled Digital Cambridgeshire involving collaboration with
 Cambridge Central Library to digitise Cambridgeshire Collections (see ‘Future Aims and
 Strategies’ below). By allowing wider access and publicising the resources for the wider
 community we are further engaging the public (priority 4). In 2021 McWilliam will be developing a
 digital archive of West End history and memories. (On funding for both projects, see Section 3
 below.) All the above demonstrate our continuing commitment to open access.


 Research Integrity

 Our research is underpinned by the highest standards of rigour and integrity, implemented
 through vigorous training and support mechanisms overseen by RIDO (Research and Innovation
 Development Office) and the Research Ethics and Integrity Manager. All staff and research
 students must complete the Epigeum Online Ethics Skills training courses and Epigeum
 Research integrity (Concise) course which support research-active colleagues in their decision-
 making throughout a research project’s life cycle. Our bids are anonymously peer-reviewed and
 undergo ethical compliance, formal risk assessment and full economic costing before final
 approval by the Dean.

 Ethical concerns are particularly significant where historians study living subjects. One example
 of research integrity in practice relates to the work undertaken by Bland for her book on mixed-
 race war children, which involved lengthy interviews. She endeavoured to counter some of the
 inequality in the interviewer/interviewee relationship by showing all participants everything she
 had written about them, changing anything they requested.


 Future strategic aims and goals over the next 5 years

 In this next five-year period we intend to build on our four priorities. (On ‘Enhancement of
 Research Income’ including diversifying income streams, see ‘Future Applications for Grants’
 below.) We aim to expand our interdisciplinary work and to further enhance impact and
 knowledge exchange. We will also develop our research interests in relation to our two main
 research concentrations, each continuing to focus on the ARU thematic area of social inclusion
 and marginalised communities.

 Interdisciplinary partnership work as a key strategy

 We will continue with our interdisciplinary work with partners, such as LHRU’s collaboration with
 Cambridge Commons, to further develop impact and knowledge exchange. Tullett will be
 working with external heritage sites and partners (including International HEIs) as part of
 Odeuropa, and charities including AbScent that spread awareness of anosmia.

 We will also work in partnership with Cambridge Central Library, developing a team project
 entitled Digital Cambridgeshire - a major local archive which has at its core some 5 million
 photographs of local scenes. This new project dovetails with our and our students’ ever-


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 increasing use of digital material, and our teaching of its use and value. Digitisation will allow
 much wider community access to this unique archive.

 Bland, with independent scholar Dr Chamion Caballero of the digital Mixed Museum, will be
 working with local community groups and museums across the country to create an interactive
 ‘mapping’ project of Black GIs, their white partners and mixed-race children in Britain. Bland will
 also be using the money she won in October 2020 from a VC Award for Research Impact to
 introduce an audio version of the exhibition to give access to the partially sighted.

 Tullett has recently been appointed HSS Research Co-ordinator; his remit includes research
 outside of History (English, Social Sciences, Criminology and Philosophy) and thus provides a
 mechanism for our UoA to influence the School’s approach to interdisciplinary research.

 Ensuring the vitality and sustainability of impact and public engagement

 To heighten research impact, the LHRU will extend dissemination of its post-1980 Labour Party
 research through new publications and public and online events. It will further reassess New
 Labour and the transatlantic connections of the left. In particular, the LHRU will build on the
 Labour Renewal Project to create spaces where Labour historians and policy specialists can
 develop ideas that feed into political practice.

 As McWilliam embarks on volume 2 of his West End project covering 1914-present, he is
 planning a curated exhibition about the history of the West End and the creation of a website –
 routes to impact and knowledge exchange. The second volume will involve an oral history
 dimension and include working with theatre, film and retail professionals and a digital archive of
 West End history and memories.

 Tullett is continuing his research on sensory history, writing a book on 18th century bells, senses
 and emotions. As part of the Odeuropa project, he will be working on an online peer-reviewed
 historical encyclopaedia of smells and a book-length project on smell in Europe, 1750-1920.

 Increasing the Number of PGRs and PhD Completions

 We have recently gained some PhD funding: the Odeuropa PhD studentship, and jointly with
 English, a VC studentship on ‘Gas, Pollution, and Heritage’, the latter providing fees and stipend
 equivalent to UK Research Council funding. Several of our current MA students intend to
 undertake PhDs with us. We have pending PhD completions that have been delayed by Covid-
 19 restrictions.

 All the above demonstrates the availability of our research beyond the academy, our
 commitment to facilitating interdisciplinary, and to expanding our PGR community.

 Section 2. People

 The UoA is comprised of 7 members of staff (6 FTEs): three Professors (Bland, Hewitt and
 McWilliam), a Reader (Davis), two Senior Lecturers (Carr, (and Lang who does not carry SRR))
 and one Lecturer (Tullett). All have permanent contracts except Hewitt. The ECR in the unit
 (Tullett) has benefitted from the university’s ECR mentorship scheme, matched with experienced
 researchers to provide advice on research plans. He was also given a reduced teaching load for
 his first year and has access to £2,000 funding (minimally) via ARU’s ECR Charter. Our
 commitment to promoting ECR’s careers is further demonstrated by Tullett’s recent appointment
 as School Research Co-ordinator.

 Staffing and recruitment strategy

 Since 2015, one of our history staff has retired (Campbell-Orr), but we acquired another early
 modern history lecturer, Flavin, for the period January 2016-December 2018; and from January

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2019 she has been replaced by early modernist Tullett. From November 2016 we acquired an
 Early Career Leverhulme Fellow, Blaxill, for 36 months. Hewitt was appointed in 2016, initially in
 a managerial role, and is currently 0.2FTE. Each member of staff benefits from constructive
 annual appraisals in which research plans and priorities are discussed and future objectives
 established. The Faculty has regular Away-Days, with a wide choice of staff training workshops
 and RIDO runs regular training programmes to aid grant applications and bid writing. RIDO
 identifies and promotes funding opportunities for research and knowledge exchange, organises
 research workshops to support interdisciplinary and collaborative research, provides access to
 the Research Professional funding database, and offers funding development workshops under
 the umbrella of the Researcher Development Programme.

 Staff are actively encouraged to seek promotion. Pathways to promotion are clear and
 transparent. Bland was promoted to Reader in December 2014 and then to Professor in October
 2015; Carr was promoted to Senior Lecturer in August 2015; Davis was promoted to Reader in
 February 2020. They all received anonymous peer-review feedback and mentoring by a senior
 colleague to aid their promotional applications. Sabbaticals - a university-wide, competitive
 scheme - are regularly granted and our unit has excelled, winning a proportionally high number
 given its size, with semester sabbaticals for book completions awarded to Bland, Davis, Flavin
 and McWilliam.


 Research community

 We are all engaged in various national and international historical research communities,
 working collaboratively across the country and across nations (above and see section 4 below).
 Our written work has global reach, and our scholarly reputations have led to approximately 22
 invitations to give keynotes in a range of countries, including Austria, Canada, France, Germany,
 Ireland, Italy, Portugal, Ukraine and USA.

 We also have a vibrant research community of post-graduates. Through staff development
 programmes, staff are trained as research supervisors and viva chairs and all are involved in
 PhD supervision, including contributing to other inter-disciplinary supervisory teams (in English,
 Performing Arts, Philosophy and Music). PGRs are recruited to the UoA’s key research areas -
 modern political history and social/cultural history. Completed theses include ‘the SDP
 breakaway and the Labour Party’, ‘How the period 1890-1945 is portrayed in contemporary
 Russia’, ‘The Cambridgeshire Regiment in World War I’, ‘Modern Nigerian Elections and Use of
 Media’ and ‘Stalin’s role in the origins of the Korean War’. Currently topics of our research
 students include: ‘Female Anarchists in Britain, 1900-1920’; ‘John Hollingshead and the
 Victorian Theatre’; ‘Images of the Countryside after 1945’; ‘The Case of Malta and Dom Mintoff,
 1971-1984’; ‘Jewish refugees from Nazi Germany to East England’; ‘Cambridge Bell-Ringing’;
 ‘Constance Lytton & prison reform’, ‘The Experiences of Single Irish Women in Birmingham and
 the Black Country, 1861-1914’, and ‘Olfactory Storytelling in History and Heritage’. This
 snapshot of some of our PGRs’ research topics indicates the lively and wide spectrum of topics -
 from local studies to the trans-national and trans-geographical. It also demonstrates the
 interdisciplinary range of our PGR environment.

 Our PGRs attend PGR training and development programmes run through the Doctoral School.
 They (along with MA students) work with Lang in running the local branch of the Historical
 Association – an excellent way of facilitating their entry into historical networks. Lang and PGR
 Joanna Costin contributed to a project run jointly by Cambridge School of Art (ARU) and
 Headway, a local charity for people with serious head injuries. They met with a group of head
 injury patients to talk about World War I - part of the contextual stage of an art project. From
 March 2020 Lang has been working in partnership with Cambridge 105 - a local independent
 radio station, active in the community - on a twice-weekly history show entitled ‘Cambridge Now
 and Then’. This partnership offers opportunities for our PGRs in programme presentation
 (working alongside experienced broadcasters); interviews with people about work, opinions;
 researching; editing – contributing to career development within and beyond academia.

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 PGRs have access to a computer-equipped PGR room with kettle and comfortable chairs,
 encouraging a sense of community. All PGRs have access to QR funding for conference
 attendance (£500) and their participation and speaking at conferences is greatly encouraged.
 Many regularly present at conferences outside the university, for example at the International
 Federation for Research in Women’s History, Vancouver, 2018; British Association of Victorian
 Studies conference, Dundee, 2019; and conferences in Italy, Portugal, Ireland and around
 Britain. PGRs have numerous opportunities to showcase their work. They regularly contribute to
 the two ARU PGR Annual Conferences, one organised by RIDO, the other by our Faculty. They
 have their own regular, supportive workshops and they attend the LHRU seminars as well as the
 Faculty research seminars. Tullett as HSS Research Co-ordinator aims to expand further the
 interdisciplinary nature of PGR School seminars.

 Impressively, our PGRs, with the encouragement of their supervisors, have been publishing and
 disseminating their research even before the completion of their PhDs – all excellent for their
 future careers. For example, Wendy Tuxill, who is working on ‘Constance Lytton & prison
 reform’, was interviewed on BBC1 in 2018. Another, James Pearce, who researched the
 educational portrayal of history in contemporary Russia, published articles in journals and edited
 books before the completion of his PhD. A book based on his PhD was published in May 2020
 and he has acquired a part-time lectureship at University of Liverpool. A third, Paul Bloomfield,
 wrote a chapter for Davis and McWilliam’s co-edited Labour and the Left, also before the
 completion of his PhD. A fourth, Costin, published a 2016 book Cambridgeshire Kitcheners,
 again before the completion of her PhD. Eilidh Innes, who is currently completing her PhD, has
 an article in Women’s History, Summer 2020.

 Our approach to developing researchers is embedded in our undergraduate study. Our
 undergraduates are actively encouraged into academic progression by our research-led
 teaching and by undergraduate research internships. The latter, which are competitively bid for
 by members of staff, enable an undergraduate to participate over the summer in a period of paid
 research alongside a member of our history staff. We have had 4 such internships in the last 5
 years. In September 2018 we started a new MA History; it is proving very popular amongst our
 alumni, as well as drawing in others. MA students contribute to our thriving and inclusive
 research culture and to its sustainability, not least because several of our MA students progress
 to PhD study with us on MA completion. They are encouraged to attend all the above-mentioned
 seminars, thereby expanding the history post-graduate community.


 Equal opportunities, diversity and inclusivity

 The culture of ARU is highly supportive and inclusive. All staff receive bespoke training in equal
 opportunities, diversity and inclusivity, including awareness of issues relating to disability, mental
 health, gender, disability and race/ethnicity.

 Our University achieved the Athena SWAN bronze award in April 2015. In further support of
 inclusivity in the work environment, ARU operates a flexible working policy with options for
 condensed hours and flexible homeworking, given that the University desktop can be accessed
 off-site. As a result of ARU’s commitment to the Athena SWAN principles, we have dedicated
 staff support networks, such as the Women’s Network, offering mentorship for women to
 address gender-based imbalances in career progression. Bland spoke on International Women’s
 Day in March 2020 to the ARU Inclusivity Conference. A Reasonable Adjustment Form for PGR
 students contributes to our support of students with protected characteristics. There is staff
 training for awareness of disability, special learning needs, and mental health issues, as well as
 access to digital resources. We ran a training session on dyslexic students’ needs, which
 introduced us to new assistive software. We are especially attentive to these issues as TEF data
 reveals that 23% of our History students have some form of disability. There is ongoing support
 for staff and PGRs who suffer ill-health. Several of our PGRs have either suffered Covid-19,
 have had caring responsibilities because of the virus or been temporarily unable to continue with

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 their research due to Covid restrictions. They have accordingly been granted periods of
 intermission. Over half of our PGRs are women, one of whom is an international student from
 South Korea.

 Some of our research explicitly addresses issues of equality and diversity. For example, Bland’s
 study of the children born in World War II to black GIs (Britain’s ‘Brown Babies’) charts their
 history of experiencing racism, exclusion and lack of belonging. Tullett’s forthcoming work with
 charities FifthSense and AbScent on public engagement also addresses issues of equal
 opportunities and inclusivity. This research interest has contributed to our seeking application of
 these issues to staff and students. As part of our Faculty ‘BAME Award Gap Working Group’, we
 are currently planning a series of seminars for staff and students on decolonising the curriculum,
 diversifying perspectives, and encouraging equality within humanities and social sciences.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Income

 As mentioned above, we have won three significant research grants since 2014:

 i) ‘Food in Ireland,1550-1650’: ’FOODCULT’, a Starter ERC grant of £1.48m for a 5-year period
      that has now transferred to Trinity College, Dublin. Although the grant is no longer based at
      ARU, its acquisition was only made possible by the invaluable help of RIDO and the vital
      support of our School, providing teaching relief to Flavin for the grant write-up. In that
      application round, ARU was the only post ‘92 university to win ERC funding. The project is
      still linked to ARU through ongoing work with ARU’s StoryLab Research Institute.
  ii) a 36-month ECR Leverhulme Fellowship of £72,000. That this was 50% funded demonstrates
      ARU’s commitment to enriching the environment.
 iii) £2.8m Horizon grant won by Tullett, in collaboration with European colleagues in Amsterdam
      and elsewhere. £360,000 of this money will come to ARU and to Tullett as a Work Package
      lead. It will pay for three years’ research time for Tullett, a PhD studentship, and collaboration
      with ARU’s StoryLab. Tullett was informed of the win in July 2020. The project runs from
      January 2021 to January 2024.

 Small grants awarded: for September 2015-December 2016 Bland won a BA/Leverhulme Small
 Research Grant of £5,255 for her work on mixed-race GI war babies. In June 2019 she received
 a small award (£1,500) from Being Human: a Festival of the Humanities for an exhibition on ‘War
 Children born to Black GIs and British Women’ held in November 2019 at the Black Cultural
 Archives, Brixton – part of our commitment to knowledge exchange and impact. In June 2017
 Carr was awarded US$2,500 to participate in the Political Economy Workshop, Hoover
 Institution, Stanford University. In 2019 he obtained 3 grants to visit archives: Theodore C.
 Sorensen Research Fellowship, JFK Library, Boston (US$2,100); Bordin-Gillette Fellowship,
 Bentley Library, University of Michigan (US$2,000); Ford Presidential Library Travel Grant, Ann
 Arbor, MI (US$1,000). In 2019 Hewitt won a Princeton Library fellowship of US$2,000 for a week
 in Princeton. He also won a competitive fellowship for AUS$10,000 to Humanities Research
 Centre, Australian National University, Canberra, October-December 2019. From January-
 September 2020 he was Belcher Visiting Fellow at St Hugh’s, Oxford (£17,750).

 In November 2019 Tullett attended a British Academy-funded ‘Knowledge Frontiers’ symposium
 in Brisbane Australia (flight and accommodation paid, approximately £2,500) and won three
 separate BA seed grants as a result of collaborative partnerships with Australian academics.
 Two were awarded in February 2020: £3,826 for ‘Visions of the Future Since 1800’ (entailing an
 academic publication and an online digital exhibition) and £2,170 for ‘Future Intimacies: bodies,
 touch and co-presence in a digital world’ (entailing two cross-disciplinary workshops, a book
 chapter, a journal article and an open access blog). The third was awarded in March 2020:
 £3,600 for ‘Emotion, Language, and Environmental disaster’ (entailing a two-day undergraduate
 digital history workshop, two joint-authored, peer-reviewed journal articles and an essay for
 public readership in The Conversation).

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Future Applications for Grants

 Our strategy includes the encouragement of future grant bids, both individual and joint, advised
 at all stages by RIDO staff. We are also committed to diversifying our income streams. As
 mentioned, from January 2021 to January 2024 Tullett will be engaged in the ‘Odeuropa’ project
 for which he and others won the £2.8 million Horizon grant. In February 2021 Bland will be
 applying with Caballero for a National Lottery Heritage Fund, with Bland as PI, working with
 community groups and museums around England and Wales to chart the wartime bases of
 Black GIs. This will then be mapped onto the geographical birth locations of the children of Black
 GIs and British women. Both Bland’s and Tullett’s grant applications are thus collaborations with
 partners beyond academia. For his second volume on the West End, McWilliam will be applying
 for a Leverhulme grant for his projected exhibition and his massing of oral histories. (See ‘Future
 strategic aims and goals’ above).

 We will also be putting together a bid for the joint project that brings together the interests and
 expertise of all ARU History: Digital Cambridgeshire, as outlined above (see ‘Future strategic
 aims and goals’). The project will begin with a series of small grants to fund workshops at ARU,
 such as the BA Small Grant competition – part of our strategy to diversify income sources by
 looking, with RIDO’s help, for lesser-known income sources.


 Infrastructure and Facilities

 RIDO: We are greatly helped in our grant applications by RIDO, who provide robust one-to-one
 bid-writing advice, partnership work for collaborations, writing retreats, pre- and post-award
 advice and guidance, advice on intellectual property and commercialisation, research-related
 marketing, research development training programme and access to funding databases via
 ‘Research Professional’.

 Press Office: ARU senior press officer, Jon Green, is extremely helpful in disseminating
 information on our research through issuing press releases and setting up local, national and
 international radio, television and newspaper interviews. For example, he organised numerous
 interviews for Bland on the publication of her 2019 book and for Tullett on the formal
 announcement of ‘Odeuropa’ in November 2020. He encourages academics to provide
 comments on news items that fall within our areas of expertise. The press office monitors all
 media coverage that mentions ARU, providing metrics such as the potential reach of a piece of
 coverage. All this supports routes to impact.

 Libraries and Museums: ARU library holds resources invaluable for historians, such as a full run
 of hard copies of Illustrated London News and Picture Post. The library also has access to
 numerous online databases (such as SCOPUS) and book and journal sources. The location of
 ARU in Cambridge means that its staff and students have access not simply to Cambridge
 (Copyright) University Library, but also to Churchill Archives Centre at Churchill College, with its
 world-leading collection of twentieth-century historical sources (consulted by Carr for The March
 of the Moderates, Davis for The Global 1980s and McWilliam for London's West End). Lang is
 on the Committee of the Churchill Archives. MA students complete an assignment based on the
 planning of a museum exhibition. In this connection we have established links with the Museum
 of Cambridge, the Imperial War Museum (Duxford) and the Cromwell Museum, Huntingdon.

 Resources to host conferences: our UoA conferences were held in the Lord Ashcroft Building,
 while the Science Centre (opened in 2017) hosted Bland’s inaugural lecture. Both buildings,
 tailor-made for conference use, are on the Cambridge campus.




                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration

 Our UoA is highly committed to collaborative research; this has taken two purposeful strands: 1)
 research partnerships (often international) supporting research outputs; 2) partnerships with a
 wider public through engagement with libraries, museums, community groups, and government
 bodies both locally and nationally.

 1) Academic Research Partnerships: UoA staff collaborate with each other on publications, with
 two conferences in 2014 leading to two co-edited monographs: Bland and Carr co-edited
 Labour, British Radicalism and the First World War and Davis and McWilliam co-edited Labour
 and the Left in the 1980s. Publishing collaboration also occurs with non-ARU academics. In
 2014 Carr collaborated with Dr Bradley Hart of California State University on an article for
 Historical Research (IHR) on ‘Sterilization and the British Conservative Party’ (in REF2) and The
 Global 1920s. In 2015 Bland co-edited Reconsidering Women’s History, Taylor & Francis, with
 Dr Katharina Rowold, Roehampton University. In 2018 McWilliam co-edited with Dr Sasha
 Handley and Professor Lucy Noakes New Directions in Social and Cultural History, Bloomsbury.
 This launched a new monograph series of the same name run on behalf of the Social History
 Society and co-edited by McWilliam.

 There is also inter-disciplinary collaboration. Bland collaborated with sociologist Caballero in
 curating Bland’s digital exhibition on Caballero’s website and they are about to work together on
 a joint funding bid. Flavin’s research project FOODCULT is highly collaborative and
 interdisciplinary, involving working with archaeologists, scientists and anthropologists in England
 and Ireland, including filmmakers at ARU’s StoryLab. Tullett’s ‘Odeuropa’ project involves
 academics and professionals from art, chemistry, marketing, and digital humanities. McWilliam
 works with Victorian scholars, many in English, particularly ARU’s Nineteenth-Century Studies
 Research Unit. When President of the British Association for Victorian Studies (BAVS), 2012-15,
 he developed interdisciplinary collaboration among Victorianists through the society's
 conferences and the influential BAVS Talks on-line lecture series which he introduced:
 (https://bavs.ac.uk/events/). He has also promoted interdisciplinary exchange through his role on
 the boards of the Journal of Victorian Culture and the London Journal as well as the monograph
 series, 'Becoming Modern: New Nineteenth Century Studies', (University Press of New England)
 of which he is a co-editor.

 Collaborative grant applications are encouraged and supported through RIDO’s bid-writing
 advice, as given to Flavin and Tullett for their successful bids.

 2) Collaboration with non-academics: McWilliam worked with Westminster City Archive on the
 Edward Lloyd conference in July 2017 which led to his co-edited (with Lill) Edward Lloyd and His
 World. Bland collaborated with the Black Cultural Archives, two libraries and the website Mixed
 Museum, to showcase her physical and digital exhibitions. Tullett’s team for ‘Odeuropa’ includes
 working with museums to build tools, platforms, and outputs centred on excavating Europe’s
 olfactory heritage since 1500.

 Some of the collaboration involves the History team working with practitioners and political
 activists. In 2016 Carr co-authored the book Alice in Westminster: The Political Life of Alice
 Bacon with Rachel Reeves MP. As a result of this work, a blue plaque to Bacon was installed at
 the Leeds Corn Exchange (where she held her constituency surgeries), the University of Leeds
 began hosting an annual 'Alice Bacon' lecture, and the House of Commons bar began stocking a
 new ale, the ‘Baroness Bacon'. Davis and McWilliam have been working closely with Cambridge
 Commons (on the imagine2027 Project: (https://imagine2027.org.uk/) and the Cambridge
 Labour Party (on a series of public seminars: 'Labour's Shifting Sands'). Joannou collaborated
 with Cambridge Blue Plaque Committee, Museum of Cambridge, Cambridge City Council,
 Mayor of Cambridge and Cambridge MP Daniel Zeichner in her work with CamVOTE100 and in
 establishing blue plaques.

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our work is also utilised by politicians. Carr authored the think-tank reports Commercial
 Councils: the rise of entrepreneurialism in local government and The Next LEPs: Unlocking
 growth across our localities (both 2015). Both featured in the national press (e.g. Financial
 Times) and were praised across the political spectrum (e.g. by Chuka Umunna and Bob Neill). In
 January 2016 these reports provided information for Carr's written submission for the Devolution
 Enquiry launched by Parliamentary Select Committee for Communities and Local Government.
 (http://data.parliament.uk/writtenevidence/committeeevidence.svc/evidencedocument/housing-
 communities-and-local-government-committee/the-governments-cities-and-local-government-
 devolution-bill/written/26565.html). Research from these reports has been utilised by the official
 briefings produced for MPs by the House of Commons Library (e.g. SN05797, SN05950) (see
 ICS2).

 Organisations and editorial teams: Group members belong to prestigious organisations and
 are on a number of editorial teams. Four of the team are Fellows of the Royal Historical Society
 (RHS) (Bland, Hewitt, McWilliam, Tullett) and five are Senior Fellows of the Higher Education
 Academy (Bland, Carr, Davis, McWilliam, Tullett). Lang is President of the Cambridge branch of
 the Historical Association, and sits on its national Council.

 Bland was on the Steering Committee of the Women’s History Network and co-editor of
 Women’s History, 2012-2016. In 2019 she joined the Editorial Board of Women’s History
 Review. She is on the advisory boards of Gender & History and New Formations. McWilliam was
 President of BAVS and remains a member of the executive. He devoted much of his Presidency
 to enhancing the organisation’s attention to PGRs and ECRs and built strong relations with the
 curatorial community. He is on the editorial board of London Journal and of Journal of Victorian
 Culture, the latter as its Reviews editor. In 2018 and 2019 Bland was requested to act as referee
 and external advisor for professorial and readership promotions for UK and international
 universities: University of Warwick, Indiana University and University of Otago, New Zealand.
 Hewitt is an AHRC Peer Review College member and panellist and has given Professorial
 assessments at Canterbury Christ Church and Oxford Brookes. McWilliam has been invited by
 the RHS to give the prestigious 2021 Prothero lecture. All the above point to the national and
 international esteem of our 3 professors.

 External examining, validating and peer-reviewing: Group members have acted as external
 examiners for 17 doctoral examinations since 2014. Members have also validated or re-
 validated five BA and MA courses and externally examined six BA and MA programmes. They
 have acted as peer-reviewers for a wide variety of publishing houses, including university
 presses, Bloomsbury, Routledge, Palgrave Macmillan and approximately 30 journals.

 Conference organisation: Part of LHRU’s strategy involves the holding of regular workshops
 and conferences. Carr has organised three conferences at ARU: 2 in 2014: ‘Labour and the First
 World War’ (leading to Bland and Carr (eds) Labour, British Radicalism and the First World
 War), and ‘Labour and the 1980s’ (leading to Davis and McWilliam (eds) Labour and the Left).
 The third conference, in 2018, was on ‘The Third Way: new perspectives on the Blair-Clinton era’
 (Carr’s 2019 book The March of the Moderates was one outcome). Bland, in collaboration with
 Joannou and Dr Lucy Delap (of Murray Edwards College, Cambridge) organised a conference
 on ‘Women’s Suffrage and Political Activism’ in February 2018, to mark women’s suffrage
 centenary. Podcasts and information relating to this conference and the surrounding
 commemorative events in Cambridge are on the LHRU website.

 Conferences and talks: The School funds staff attendance at conferences. Unit members have
 given over 90 conference and seminar presentations, of which 21 took place outside the UK,
 including in Austria, Canada, France, Germany, Hawaii, Irish Republic, Italy, Poland, Portugal,
 Ukraine and the US. They have also given many keynote addresses, including Bland at the
 Ipswich ‘8th in the East’ Festival, 2016; ‘Mary Jacobs Memorial Lecture’ in Plymouth, 2017;
 annual plenary for Psycho-Social Studies, Birkbeck University, 2017; Emory University, Atlanta
 2019. She also talked to government departments BEIS and Department for Education. Davis

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 gave a keynote at The British Library, London, in 2017 on the ‘British Labour and the Russian
 Revolution’. Bland, Davis, Lang and McWilliam are regular speakers at the Cambridge Festival
 of Ideas and the Historical Association. McWilliam gave a keynote on 'The Cultural Work of the
 West End of London' at Lisbon University in 2015. He has given a variety of public lectures at
 venues including the Westminster City Archives and the Bishopsgate Institute. Hewitt gave
 keynotes at BAVS’s annual conference in 2015, Newman University in 2018 and Loughborough
 University in 2019. Lang gave keynotes at Montpellier in 2014 and 2018 and has spoken on
 political, imperial and local history topics at local history societies. He gives regular guest
 lectures to the Cambridge University International Summer School, and other Cambridge
 University audiences. In 2017 he was one of the main speakers at Cambridge City Council’s
 Holocaust Memorial Day commemoration, alongside Lord Alf Dubs.


 Media presence and engagement

 Members of our UoA have a very active presence in local, national and international media, with
 regular appearances on radio and television and with many published articles, including in The
 Conversation and in various popular magazines. This is a definite strength of our UoA and
 demonstrates our commitment to disseminating history to a wider audience, including the local
 community.

 Radio: All our staff are regular contributors to local, national and international radio, including
 Radio 4’s Woman’s Hour, Today, and Making History programmes, Radio 3’s Late Night and
 Free Thinking, BBC World Service, Radio 5 Live, and local radio programmes, most of them live
 broadcasts, from Scotland to Guernsey.

 Largely in relation to her work on mixed-race GI war children, Bland has made many
 contributions to national radio, appearing on Radio 4’s Woman’s Hour, and Today programme,
 Radio 3’s Late Night and Free Thinking, BBC World Service. All the above have large
 audiences, for example, Woman’s Hour has an audience of over 4m. She has also been invited
 onto 20 BBC local radio programmes. Bland, Davis, Hewitt and McWilliam have appeared
 several times on Radio 4’s Making History. Carr appeared on Radio 4’s Today programme and
 on Radio 5 Live. Davis has appeared on BBC Radio Essex and BBC Radio Cambridgeshire.
 Uniquely, for the past 10 years Lang has had a weekly afternoon slot on BBC Radio
 Cambridgeshire, with presenter Jeremy Sallis, talking on a wide range of historical topics. At
 BBC Cambridgeshire, Lang is also regularly asked to give a history perspective on news items
 on the Breakfast Show and BBC Essex, often alongside local politicians or local activists, as well
 as for other shows including the Naked Scientists programme. Tullett has appeared on BBC
 Radio Cambridgeshire and the BBC World Service programme The Forum to discuss his
 research on smell. Whilst promoting the Odeuropa project in November 2020 Tullett appeared
 on major radio, TV, print, and online media platforms across the globe. This included BBC Radio
 4, CBC in Canada, and NPR in the US; Sky News, Euronews, and BBC Look East; the
 Guardian; Metro, and Le Monde; and a range of online news-sites. All these activities have
 helped to promote the discipline and increase public understanding of the topics discussed.

 Television and film: Bland has appeared on two TV programmes about Edith Thompson, a
 woman wrongly convicted of murdering her husband in the 1920s (Murder Maps, 2016 and
 Murder, Mystery and my Family, BBC1, 2018), a BBC programme about the publishing house
 Virago in 2016, in May 2019 on Channel 4 News (about the new mixed-race royal baby) and
 BBC World News in May 2019 on her research on wartime mixed-race GI babies. She is
 collaborating on a Channel 4 Wall-to-Wall documentary about this research. She has been on
 BBC Look East several times (on the US presence in World War II), as too has Lang (often in
 connection with elections). Lang had a number of First World War-related appearances in 2014,
 including the BBC Six O’Clock News, Al-Jazeera and Sky News. He often gets called upon,
 especially by ITV Anglia, to comment on royal stories and local news stories. He also did a
 Facebook Live interview with ITV Anglia on President Trump’s inauguration. In 2019 Lang
 proposed a series of short history talks (‘Acts and Facts’) to BBC Parliament, currently being

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 aired, with contributions from Lang alongside Professor Vernon Bogdanor and Professor Kate
 Williams. Hewitt was interviewed for Who Do You Think You Are? in 2017.

 All the History staff have items on YouTube, including a set of twelve 7-8 minute short talks
 featuring the staff, Thinking History, which Lang produced with production company Thinking
 Media in 2019. These are also on ARU’s website to showcase ARU History.

 National and International Press and Popular Publications: The history team write for
 national and international press on a regular basis. On request, Bland wrote for the Cambridge
 Independent and BBC History Magazine in 2019. Her recent project on the mixed-race GI war
 children has led to much UK and US interest, covered by BBC Online, CNN, East Anglian,
 Mancunian and Bristolian newspapers and the leading Brazilian newspaper O Globo. Carr and
 McWilliam have written for Fabian Review and Carr for Progress magazine on 'The Corbynite
 ideology', the most-read story on their website in 2017. His appearance on the Political Party
 podcast has been heard over 30,000 times on Soundcloud
 (https://soundcloud.com/thepoliticalparty). He writes regularly for The Conversation, as do Davis,
 Lang, Tullett and McWilliam. Davis’s article for The Conversation on ‘Fukuyama and the end of
 history/fall of the Berlin Wall’ was translated into Spanish. He presented a podcast on the
 centenary of the Russian Revolution to accompany another Conversation article. Bland has
 written for The Conversation (May 2019) her article viewed over 68,000 times. Lang has written
 14 articles for The Conversation, one of which ‘Gammon race row: why British Twitter is boiling
 over about a meaty slur’ was viewed over 131,000 times and one of which, on John Nicholson of
 the East India Company, was reprinted in the Independent. He has also recorded two podcasts:
 on history and memory (2017) and the memorialisation of World War I (2018). In all, we have
 written 38 Conversation articles with a total readership of 631,669.

 Social Media Strategy: Our UoA takes a co-ordinated approach to using social media platforms
 to support and promote research, knowledge exchange and impact. LHRU has its own website
 and Twitter account, which link up with research and impact collaborators and partners within
 and beyond ARU. Carr uses his Twitter account to engage with think-tanks (followers include the
 Fabian Society and Progress), MPs (followers include Wes Streeting, Labour MP for Ilford North)
 and journalists (followers include Stephen Bush (New Statesman) and Grace Blakeley
 (Tribune)). His blogging is promoted by their various hosting sites from Left Foot Forward (where
 Carr served as a contributing editor 2014-16) to the Independent, thereby utilising their extensive
 follower reaches, and this has led to further media appearances. McWilliam uses his Twitter
 account to promote interest in the history of London’s West End.

 Our regular appearances on television and film, and in local, national and international press, as
 well as via social media, support our determination to contribute to public understanding of
 history. Through them we seek to influence policy and practice and are enriched by the dialogue
 these media engagements create. For a small History UoA, our media engagement is extensive,
 helping to enhance our profile, reach and significance.




                                                                                            Page 13
