Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Leeds (UoL)

 Unit of Assessment: 3

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 The UoL return for UoA3 comprises 63.1 FTE staff from the Faculty of Medicine and Health
 (FMH): 29.4 FTE aligned to Nursing and Allied Health (N&AH) with 17.6 FTE from the School
 of Healthcare (SoH) and 11.8 FTE from the School of Medicine (SoM); while 33.7 FTE are
 aligned to Dentistry in the School of Dentistry (SoD). N&AH focusses on applied health
 research making a positive difference to the lives of people using and working in health and
 social care. Dentistry focusses on applied and translational research for patient benefit
 underpinned by a broad range of basic science (Figure 1). They are separate units with
 overlapping strategies, but both grounded on recognised research leadership and strengths,
 delivering interdisciplinary research (IDR) in teams at all levels, ensuring vitality and future
 sustainability. Underpinning all activities is our commitment to academic excellence - embedded
 within a culture which values equality, diversity and inclusivity, as evidenced by our Gold and
 Silver Athena SWAN awards.




      Figure 1: Organisational structures supporting our Research & Impact Strategy

                                                                                           Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our campus infrastructure lies at the heart of the Leeds City Region (population: 3m), is an
 engine within the Northern Powerhouse (10.2m), and acts as a national and international hub for
 research activity. Our NHS partners, centres, and platforms support our clinical and academic
 leaders to deliver research in systemic and oral health, social care, and healthcare technologies
 (Figure 1). These structures help sustain our long-term plans for improved patient care, and
 ensure a highly trained and skilled workforce.

 Key headlines during the REF period include:
    • Delivery of high-impact research across our themes, with total external grant award value
       of £81.5m of which the UoA3 share was £26.8m;
    • 1353 publications: 36% in top 10% journals and 41% with international co-authors;
    • Significant investment in 41 new academic staff;
    • Twenty-two clinical academic fellowships, which for N&AH (n=17) was nationally the
       second highest awards to Universities/Trusts;
    • COVID-19: Publications (14 N&AH; 14 Dentistry); £1.6m successful grants (96% NIHR);
    • Two staff awarded Queen’s Honours;
    • Significant investment of infrastructure (over £36m) providing modernised laboratories,
       workspaces and well-equipped PGR facilities.

 Research and Impact (R&I) Strategy
 Our vision is to improve lives, experiences and clinical outcomes in people receiving health and
 social care (Figure 2).




   Key: WHO: World Health Organization; MoUs: Memoranda of Understanding;
   YHAHSN: Yorkshire & Humber Academic Health Science Network; PPIE: Patient & Public
   Involvement & Engagement; Figure 1 provides all other abbreviations.

                          Figure 2: Research & Impact Strategy Map


                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We use interdisciplinary collaboration to tackle enduring and emerging challenges, while
 maximising new opportunities beyond REF2021. We follow the principles of the ‘Open Science
 Framework’ around integrity and reproducibility of scientific research using pre-registration, data
 archiving, sharing (Research Data Leeds), and open access publishing. Effective translation of
 our research happens in collaboration with external stakeholders, targeting our investments
 towards important strategic partnerships to co-produce research impact with the end-users
 (Figure 2).

 A key UoL strength enabling impact is its access to a large, diverse community via NHS trusts,
 care services, and local authorities. Impact culture is fostered through School academic ‘Impact
 Champions’ (with experience of generating impact) and a Faculty impact support team. To
 develop and produce impact we:
    • Encourage researchers to embed impact in all project stages including implementation
        into grant applications and knowledge transfer activities with our strategic partners;
    • Engage early career researchers (ECRs) and postgraduate researchers (PGRs) to
        increase their knowledge and engagement with impact through workshops and senior
        academic mentorship;
    • Leverage UoL investment for building IDR culture (REF5a), through a ‘Crucible’
        programme and pump-priming funds to establish or consolidate links with our key centres
        and platforms;
    • Provide cross-disciplinary training on developing impact goals, creating impact through
        public engagement, and the planning, recording and evaluation of impact supported by
        our impact team.

 Nursing and Allied Health
 Our goal was to grow as a leading centre of excellence in applied health and social care
 research, education, innovation and knowledge transfer. Over the REF period, we have
 succeeded by:
    •   Continued expansion of research capacity and activity. We have invested and
        recruited research talent across all levels (Section 2) ensuring a vibrant community with
        clear career progression and sustainability. We are nurturing and growing our next
        generation of clinical academics, partly supported through our success with seventeen
        Health Education England (HEE)/NIHR clinical academic fellowships which included: one
        Senior Clinical Lectureship; six Clinical Lectureships; ten Clinical Doctoral Research
        Fellowships (CDRF). We support one Wellcome Trust Fellowship; two NIHR Advanced
        Fellowships; two NIHR Development Skills Enhancement Awards; three NIHR Doctoral
        Research Fellowships; seven Pre-Doctoral Clinical Academic Fellowships (PCAFs); and
        two NIHR School for Social Care Research Development Awards. We also have three
        NIHR Senior Investigators.
    •   Increased number, value, duration, and diversity of research grants. Our award
        value for REF2021 is £18.6m and represents a wider portfolio of grants, totalling £12.1m
        from NIHR (e.g. HTA, HS&DR, PGfAR). We have been successful with charity and
        industry/commercial funding (e.g. Yorkshire Cancer Research, Versus Arthritis and
        Pfizer, Totalling: £4.0m). Our individualised mentorship and support have resulted in
        average annual doctoral fellowship funding increasing by 294%, from £138k to £406k in
        REF2021.
    •   Integration of research and knowledge transfer activities. Our aim is to ensure rapid,
        significant and far-reaching impact from our research (Section 4). Engaging and working
        with practitioners and patients is at the forefront of our strategy. Key users and
        beneficiaries include: patients and carers; UK policy makers, including NICE, NHS
        England and NHS Improvement, Department of Health; Professional bodies, including
        Royal College of Nursing, Royal College of Psychiatry, and the Royal Pharmaceutical
        Society; regulators, including the Nursing and Midwifery Council, Health and Care
        Professions Council, General Pharmaceutical Council and Care Quality Commission;
        service providers; commissioners and industry. We have strengthened and increased our

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        strategic partnerships and collaborations, to enable wider and far-reaching impact. We
        developed new partnerships e.g. with care homes through ‘Nurturing Innovation in Care
        Home Excellence in Leeds’ (NICHE-Leeds), to improve quality of care and services for
        care home residents. NICHE-Leeds uses and generates evidence to address the
        questions that matter to people who live, and work, in care homes. This work has been
        cited in the NHS England 2020 guide ‘Leading the acceleration of evidence into practice’.
        We increased our leadership and involvement in networks e.g. YHAHSN; NIHR ARC YH.

 Dentistry
 Our vision is to use IDR collaborative working to understand the fundamental mechanisms of
 disease, particularly musculoskeletal (including dental), to identify and treat early, improve
 outcomes, restore function, and address the needs for prevention. Through greater integration of
 our two groups in basic and clinical research, since REF2014 we have:
    •   Increased interdisciplinary research leading to high quality outputs in clinical trials,
        clinical data mining, dental public health prevention, tissue engineering, acellular
        scaffolds, dental materials, stem cells, high resolution imaging and modelling of oral
        biofilms, along with new inter-faculty collaborations with the physical sciences (e.g. Food
        Science, Physics, Computer Science). The Wellcome/EPSRC Centre of Excellence in
        Medical Engineering (WELMEC) and EPSRC Centres for Doctoral Training (CDT) in
        Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine (TERM) and Molecular Scale
        Engineering were key to new research directions in biomedical engineering. The
        MedTech IKC is now supporting development of this fundamental research towards
        application. Increased interdisciplinarity has enabled establishment of a translational
        pipeline (TRL1 to 6/7) from basic science through to patient and public benefit. Newer
        initiatives that we are capitalising upon include: LIDA (and its Centre for Immersive
        Technologies, CfIT); the BCMR, and the NBIC. We provide leadership for two networks:
        understanding and controlling biofilms (the Leeds Biofilm Network) and anti-microbial
        resistance (AMR@Leeds).
    •   Expanded clinical research activity through investment in the Dental Translational and
        Clinical Research Unit (DenTCRU) facility (£1.2m Wellcome Trust) and leadership in
        cross-disciplinary clinical dental research. This yielded high quality outputs and impact
        through robust trial design and implementation. It increased capacity and capability,
        enabling investment in seven more support staff (including four dental nurses, dental
        hygiene therapist, two trial managers) to deliver a broad portfolio of national-scale trials.
        Data for the Oral & Dental Health portfolio from the NIHR Open Data Platform ranks
        patient recruitment for Yorkshire & Humberside 1st in both the UK (19%) and England
        (23%), with LTHT ranked 3rd in UK for interventional studies (2013-2020). We have
        extended oral health to multi-morbidity including rheumatoid arthritis (RA), multiple
        sclerosis (MS), cardiovascular disease (CVD) and provide national leadership through
        PROSpECT (Periodontal Research On Multi-morbidity and Systemic Health CSG and
        Consortium). Digital Dentistry emerged as a new strategically important direction, pump-
        primed via three EPSRC Impact Accelerator Awards.
    •   Recruited a new generation of researchers through strategic appointments and
        succession planning for key senior staff, and increased PGR recruitment (34%) since
        REF2014, ensuring a vibrant, sustainable research environment. One-quarter of research
        active staff are early career academics, including three Academic Clinical Lecturers
        (ACLs), maintaining experience at all levels. The WELMEC programme trained high-
        calibre independent researchers: three were retained by the SoD as basic science
        lecturers and one as a tenure-track University Academic Fellow (UAF) who will transition
        to associate professor at the end of the fellowship.




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Achievements during REF period

                   Notation:

                   Returned staff
                   Leavers/retired staff
                   Non-returned staff (secondment/early career)
                   Returned staff in other UoAs

                   Outputs: [UOA3-XXX]
                   Impact Case Study: ICS#UOA3-X


 Nursing and Allied Health
 Long-term conditions
 ‘Skins and Wounds’ (Nixon, Coleman, Nelson, O’Meara, Adderley, UoA2 colleagues) has a
 long-standing track record of attracting funding and successful interdisciplinary collaborations.
 Programmes of work and achievements include:
     • Diabetic foot ulcer infection [UOA3-1753, UOA3-1754] (HTA CODIFI £0.4m/HTA CODIFI
         2 £2.06m); treatment (HTA MIDFUT £1.8m) including a Cochrane review of the evidence
         of dressings for treating foot ulcers [UOA3-2865];
     • Prevention of pressure ulcers [UOA3-1431] (NIHR PGfAR PURPOSE £2.0m) which has
         improved our understanding of risk factors [UOA3-2234]; developed tools to improve
         clinical risk assessment; and compared mattress effectiveness [UOA3-1433] (HTA
         PRESSURE 2 £1.8m); and venous leg ulcer healing (partner HTA VenUS IV trial).

 Translation into impact is evidenced through ICS#UOA3-1 and the active involvement of Nixon
 and Coleman in ‘Stop the Pressure’ initiatives to improve pressure ulcer prevention at national
 and international levels; with Adderley (on secondment) initiating the national ‘Legs Matter’
 campaign and providing evidence at a House of Lords consultation meeting.

 ‘Musculoskeletal’ (Keenan, McHugh, Redmond, Siddle, Alcacer-Pitarch) focusses on
 improving services and treatments for patients with musculoskeletal conditions, the leading
 contributor to disability worldwide [UOA3-1583, UOA3-1870, UOA3-3076]. We are integral to the
 NIHR BRC (£6.7m), and work across the University and with musculoskeletal clinicians. Our
 programmes of work include:
    • Digital health: Evaluation and implementation of electronic-rehabilitation programmes for
        chronic knee pain (with UoAs1&4, Versus Arthritis £238k); and Developing a Virtual Knee
        School (with UoA1, NIHR £350k);
    • Novel treatment approaches: ‘Peer mentorship’ for self-management of osteoarthritis
        (NIHR RfPB £249k); and a multi-centre study determining effectiveness of orthotics for
        treatment of symptomatic flat feet in children (partner with University of York, NIHR HTA).

 Our foot and ankle studies have led to improvements in podiatry by: developing the ‘Foot
 Posture Index’ and transforming how foot posture is measured; increasing the evidence-base for
 podiatry interventions [UOA3-1361, UOA3-1582]; and developing a common measure of quality
 of life for people with systemic scleroderma [UOA3-2091 with UoA1].

 ‘Pain and Quality of Life in Cancer’ (Velikova, Stark, Kind, Harley, Wright, Absolom, Boele)
 focusses on improving outcomes and management of patients with cancer, and led to:
     • Resource developments (with UoAs1&2): A toolkit (booklet/DVD) for patients and
        families for tackling cancer pain [UOA3-1229] (BMA Patient Information awards 2016:
        highly commended); the ‘Chronic Cancer Experiences Questionnaire’ [UOA3-1788]; and


                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        an integrated platform for patient self-report and management of adverse events during
        cancer [UOA3-2206] (Yorkshire Cancer UK £498k);
    •   Addressing the impact of cancer (with UoAs1&2): The largest UK survey of men with
        prostate cancer reporting on quality of life and functional outcomes [UOA3-1530] leading
        to a change in clinical practice; a better understanding of psychosocial outcomes
        following colorectal and glioma (brain) cancers [UOA3-1528, UOA3-1529, UOA3-1531,
        UOA3-3608]; the identification of the risks of specific subsequent primary neoplasms
        after each type of adolescent and young adult cancer [UOA3-1559]; the identification in
        teenage and young adults (TYA) of different outcomes in care dependent upon location
        of treatment and the professionals involved [UOA3-4664] (partner NIHR PGfAR
        ‘BRIGHTLIGHT’); and how social integration of TYA is impacted by a cancer diagnosis
        (ESRC £800k);
    •   Treatments for cancers (with UoAs1&2): Testing of drug treatments for breast cancer
        [UOA3-1492, UOA3-1493] and ovarian cancer [UOA3-1560, UOA3-1561], highlighting
        the effects on quality of life [UOA3-1491, UOA3-1562].

 As evidenced in ICS#UOA3-2, our research has led to improvements in quality of life across
 cancer care and ICS#UOA3-3 provides evidence of research into TYA cancer services -
 enabling improvements in survival, confidence, and quality of life. Our research underpinned
 implementation of NHS policy via specialised NHS TYA cancer services (Stark with UoAs1&2).

 Mental Health (Baker, Hughes, O’Hara, House, Clibbens, Russell, Berzins) focusses on
 ensuring safe, effective and therapeutic mental health care, and has led to:
    • Development and testing of interventions to: reduce self-harm [UOA3-650]; standardise
        therapeutic assessment and related therapy (NIHR PGfAR £2.5m); prevent post-stroke
        depression and promote recovery of function by recommending against the routine use
        of fluoxetine [UOA3-649]; reduce smoking in people with serious mental illness [UOA3-
        3901]; and prevent blood-borne virus risk behaviours in those who inject drugs [UOA3-
        3903];
    • Increasing safety: in acute mental health wards (NIHR HS&DR £811K); through involving
        patients [UOA3-2152] and enhancing involvement of patients and families in serious
        incident investigations (NIHR HS&DR £816k); by identifying successful interventions to
        reduce restrictive interventions in adult, child and learning disability institutional settings
        (NIHR HS&DR (3 awards-£761k) and in crisis mental health services (NIHR HS&DR
        £269k); and through understanding the factors associated with seclusion in adult
        Inpatient Mental Health Services [UOA3-3069];
    • Improvements in mental health services in: liaison psychiatry (NIHR HS&DR £1.1m) and
        treatment models (NIHR HTA £589k); those with serious mental health and alcohol/drug
        conditions (NIHR HTA £558k); self-harm and suicidality in young people who identify as
        lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender or queer (Policy Research Programme), and their
        support needs (partner with University of Lancaster NIHR HS&DR); the effectiveness of
        sexual assault referral centres (NIHR HS&DR £1.16m).

 Maternal, Child and Family Health
 ‘Maternal Health’ (McGowan, Tennant, Stacey, Shloim) focusses on improving pregnancy
 outcomes. Stacey with colleagues in New Zealand confirmed that supine going-to-sleep position
 was associated with late stillbirth and a modifiable risk [UOA3-2636, UOA3-2637]. It resulted in
 Tommy’s Charity launching a public health campaign ‘Sleep on Side’. Tennant’s work identified
 the risk of serious adverse pregnancy outcomes in women with pre-existing diabetes [UOA3-
 1655] and showed that the risk of stillbirth in gestational diabetes is mitigated by effective
 screening and diagnosis [UOA3-1659]. Collaboration with the Universities of York and Sheffield
 has increased awareness of fathers’ perinatal mental health and the lack of support and services
 for them [UOA3-2942] - issues now being tackled by NHS England.

 ‘Child and Family Health’ (Bekker, Milnes, Smith, Horne, Rodriguez) focusses on supporting
 families to self-manage long-term conditions [UOA3-841, UOA3-3061], and developing and
 testing interventions to enable informed healthcare decisions. An MMR patient decision aid was

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 shown to be an efficient way to help parents make decisions to vaccinate their children [UOA3-
 1230]. Bekker developed and tested the Dialysis Decision Aid (DDA) [UOA3-1231] which has
 informed subsequent kidney care policy and dialysis decision aid development in the UK and
 internationally. Kidney Research UK disseminated the DDA from 2015; each year about a third
 of UK kidney units embed it within their service and 1000+ patients directly access it. The DDA is
 the endorsed ‘best practice’ for meeting clinical guidance when treating patients with chronic
 kidney disease in the UK, and internationally.

 Medicines Optimisation (Alldred, Zaidi, Kennedy, Daffu-O’Reilly) focusses on developing and
 testing complex interventions for the safe and effective use of medicines in high-risk populations,
 particularly older people in care homes and people with heart failure. Multi-centred, randomised
 controlled trials are currently underway following the successful completion of intervention
 development and feasibility studies which include:
     • Care Homes Independent Pharmacist Prescribing Study (CHIPPS) (PI for Yorkshire
         NIHR PGfAR £1.98m);
     • Improving the Safety and Continuity of Medicines Management at Care Transitions
         (ISCOMAT) (partner NIHR PGfAR).

 The arising impact is recognised internationally as evidenced in ICS#UOA3-4.

 People, Systems and Services (Spilsbury, Thompson, Randell, Devi, Haunch) focusses on
 understanding how people work in (and experience) systems and services, evaluating ways of
 improving those systems and services, and enabling the workforce to meet increasing demand
 and changing demography. We have increased understanding of the impact of novel robotic
 surgery on teamwork in the operating theatre (NIHR HS&DR £351k] (ICS UoAs1&2) and the
 effectiveness of the interfaces for navigating datasets of gigapixel images [UOA3-2377 with
 UoAs 1,11,12], leading to the Leeds Virtual Microscope (LVM); enabling pathologists to
 diagnose cancer and other diseases from digital slides; and commercialising LVM with a major
 laboratory vendor (Roche-Ventana; ICS in UoA1). Other notable examples include:
     • Evaluating a quality dashboard designed to support clinical teams and managers (NIHR
         HS&DR £889k);
     • Exploring the effects of computerised clinical decision support systems on N&AH
         performance and patient outcomes (NIHR HS&DR £250k);
     • Investigating the relationship between staffing and quality in care homes (NIHR HS&DR
         £1m); and evaluating different models of GP service provision for care homes led by
         University of Newcastle (partner NIHR HS&DR);
     • Evaluating NHS values-based recruitment, particularly its implementation (NIHR PRP
         £404k).

 Dentistry
 Oral and Musculoskeletal Sciences (OMS)
 This group delivers fundamental and applied research within three themes containing basic
 science and clinical academics who collaborate extensively across the SoD and FMH, with
 researchers in UoAs1,6,8,9,10,32a and Universities in Europe, USA, Canada, Brazil and China.

 ‘Biomineralisation’ (Al-Jawad, Brookes, Davies, Kirkham, Mighell, Thomson) encompasses
 skeletal tissue science from formation to destruction, and genotype to phenotype. A significant
 strength is inherited skeletal and dental pathologies research with particular focus on
 Amelogenesis imperfecta (Ai) [UOA3-1001, UOA3-154, UOA3-1004]. We hosted the highly
 influential Enamel_9 international conference for the first time outside the USA for 50 years
 (2016: NIH-funded). Molecular mechanistic studies reported the only disease mechanism for Ai
 [UOA3-25] while genetic profiling of families with Ai and related pathologies point to diverse
 inheritable drivers [UOA3-1002, UOA3-1003]. Structure studies utilising national X-ray facilities
 [UOA3-1310, UOA3-1311] complemented insights into peptide and protein action on enamel
 biomineralisation both in vivo [UOA3-155] and ex vivo [UOA3-1309], creating new hierarchical
 biomimetic materials [UOA3-1308]. Enamel remineralisation was achieved through bioactive

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 self-assembling peptide (SAP) scaffolds, which are being modified to apply soft tissue
 regeneration [UOA3-1758]. Significant impact was translated for three new commercial products
 for tooth care (https://www.credentis.com/en/innovation-science/), following spin-out of the
 patent-protected SAP technology pre-2014 (ICS#UOA3-5).

 Links to UoA9 facilitate nanoscale imaging of nanoparticle and biomolecular systems by atomic
 force microscopy (AFM) [UOA3-1094, UOA3-1095] as well as micro and nanobubble
 development for ultrasound targeted drug delivery [UOA3-2467, UOA3-2468] (Peyman).
 Quantitative MRI/PET imaging in vivo is applied for detection and diagnosis of non-oral
 diseases, e.g. CVD and cancer [UOA3-2858] (Buckley, Tsoumpas).

 ‘Biomaterials & Tissue Engineering’ (Wood, El-Gendy, Feichtinger, Raif, Yang, Tronci) targets
 the repair, regeneration or replacement of skeletal tissues. In collaboration with our clinical
 academics we focus on the maxillofacial and cranial regions of the skeleton, but our approaches
 are transferable to the broader musculoskeletal and wound care environment. Hard materials
 are investigated for dental repair/reconstruction [UOA3-2987] and soft biomaterials are
 developed as scaffolds for tissue engineering [UOA3-446]. Pluripotent stem cell differentiation
 [UOA3-1684], including dental pulp [UOA3-4316], and their interactions and proliferation in
 hydrogel constructs were investigated, demonstrating vasculogenesis [UOA3-2812].
 Applications include bone [UOA3-1683] and dental pulp tissue engineering [UOA3-1685] and
 non-viral gene therapy for musculoskeletal regeneration [UOA3-2814]. Fundamental insights into
 mechanisms controlling the differentiation of dental pulp stem cells were gained to understand
 matrix mineralisation [UOA3-499, UOA3-2538]. Collagen hydrogel synthesis and
 characterisation [UOA3-442] for wound care [UOA3-443, UOA3-445] was facilitated by a key
 joint appointment (0.5FTE Tronci) with School of Design (UoA32a) through the Clothworkers’
 Centre for Textile Materials Innovation for Healthcare.

 ‘Microbiology & Cell Biology’ (Devine, Do, Kang, Meade, Tugnait) aims to understand how
 biofilms contribute to oral health, the links between oral and systemic disease; and to develop
 novel approaches to control oral diseases (including cancer). Having observed an altered oral
 microbiome in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) [UOA3-3705], we showed (with the BRC),
 for the first time, that a dysbiotic oral microbiome and increased incidence and severity of
 periodontal disease occur before the onset of RA, implicating the oral mucosae and subgingival
 biofilms in triggering development of RA [UOA3-502, UOA3-4247]. We have elucidated the
 compositions and transcriptomes of microbial communities associated with saliva, enamel and
 root caries [UOA3-2648]. Complex in vitro models and metagenomic analyses have
 demonstrated how endogenous and exogenous nutrients influence the development of dysbiotic
 oral biofilms [UOA3-503, UOA3-1251]. Novel in silico models (with UoA11) have supported
 ecological approaches to regulate biofilm development and pathogenicity [UOA3-500]. Our
 findings that commensal plaque bacteria down-regulate epithelial cell immune responses have
 provided a pathway for development of probiotic/prebiotic approaches to oral health (Colgate
 Palmolive Inc £652k). Other pursued novel antimicrobial and therapeutic approaches include
 fluorapatite coatings [UOA3-2647], nanoparticles [UOA3-1252, UOA3-3459], SAPs combined
 with antibiotics (EPSRC_IKC Proof-of-Concept (PoC)) and quorum sensing analogues (Newton
 Fellowship with UoA6). Links to UoA9 and AMR@Leeds are giving new opportunities in
 antimicrobial peptides [UOA3-3460, UOA3-3461] (Ong).

 Applied Health and Clinical Translation (AHCT)
 This group leads execution of our oral and dental translation strategy and delivers all clinically
 related research within three leading themes.

 ‘Dental Public Health & Health Services Research’ (Douglas, Csikar, Serban, Vinall-Collier)
 utilises mixed methods research focussing on: oral health and prevention of oral diseases;
 caries management; orientation of services for health improvement; investigating and
 addressing inequalities; and primary care based research. FiCTION (NIHR £2.9m), co-led by
 Leeds, is a multi-centre randomised control trial (RCT) of child caries management strategies for
 the primary teeth. The partnership includes most UK dental schools and 80 general dental

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 practices, and determined the economics and effectiveness of treatments for children, parents
 and dentists [UOA3-2342, UOA3-4350]. ADVOCATE “Added_Value_for_Oral_Care” (€6m
 Horizon 2020), a consortium of European partners, including the NHS, six universities, health
 insurers and bioinformatics companies, utilises evidence-based learning and patient data
 analysis from eight national databases. We lead WP2 European Inventory which establishes
 networks of stakeholders and public/patient groups investigating the barriers and facilitators to
 oral healthcare systems [UOA3-4436]. We are also a partner of the INTERVAL trial (NIHR
 £3.2m), a multi-centre, primary care based randomised controlled clinical trial comparing oral
 health outcomes associated with risk-based dental recall intervals.

 ‘Dental Educational Research’ (Manogue, Keeling) collaborates with UoA4 and the CfIT on the
 role of haptics in clinical dental education, housing the largest UK haptic dental training facility.
 PGR projects include communication, management and leadership, and haptic technology
 outcomes. These have shaped simulation within dental curriculums leading to a consensus
 statement on implementation, supported by the Association for Dental Education in Europe,
 signed by 20 European institutions and all UK dental schools. Our simulation exercises are used
 in all Simodont haptic instruments worldwide. The emerging theme of ‘Digital Dentistry’
 generating 32 publications, developed our efficient and affordable dental model 3D scanner, and
 we lead a multicentre clinical trial (Dunhill Medical Trust £234k) of 3D printed dentures (with
 Manchester and Birmingham). Emerging impact (Section 4) evidences our vision as a leader for
 digital approaches to oral and maxillofacial surgery [UOA3-2444], including head and neck
 oncology.

 ‘Translational and Clinical Research’ (Pavitt, Aggarwal, Al-Taie, Bani-Hani, Day, Drummond,
 Hyde, Kenny, Nattress, Tahmassebi, Wu) delivers systematic reviews to identify clinical
 knowledge gaps, PoC, and feasibility trials through to phase 3 efficacy and effectiveness trials
 spanning the oral/dental translational pipeline. The clinical research is focused on improving oral
 health, specifically: caries and dental erosion, communication, dental trauma, prosthodontics,
 paediatrics, and links between periodontology and systemic health. Notable examples include:
 early life factors affecting eruption of primary dentition [UOA3-4416]; improvements in
 prosthodontics [UOA3-596]; and dental materials [UOA3-32, UOA3-2987].

 Pain Management is a key area and includes the impact of chronic orofacial pain in trigeminal
 neuralgia associated with MS patients [UOA3-3143] (with UoA4 and UCL). The IMPACCT study
 (NIHR PGfAR £2m) improved palliative care for cancer patients through pain management and
 improved communication (with UoA2). The on-going ALABAMA trial (NIHR £2.5m) facilitates
 antimicrobial stewardship, investigating penicillin allergy testing to limit AMR (UoAs1&2). An
 umbrella review of prescribing antibiotics in primary dental care [UOA3-3524] complemented
 prescription reduction in urgent dental care (APTiTUDE) through a NIHR DRF.

 Since REF2014, we prioritised extrapolating the findings and tools developed for dental research
 to biomedicine in general. Consequently, the expertise within DenTCRU (Section 3) has
 contributed to large-scale, multi-centre, RCTs that have extended our portfolio to include major
 diseases with known or emerging links to oral disease. The MS-SMART (NIHR EME £2.9m)
 programme studied the efficacy of repurposed drugs for MS (with LTHT and UCL) and led to a
 paradigm shift [UOA3-2143, UOA3-2147] and further £3.8m NIHR funding (MS-STAT2 and
 CHARIOT-MS). Cardiovascular research with UoA1 utilised the first RCT longitudinal study with
 cardiac MRI (NIHR £1.13m), where CADERA studied links in early RA [UOA3-4456] and
 VINDICATE revealed positive effects of Vitamin D for chronic heart failure recovery [UOA3-
 2144]. The accuracy and timeliness of diagnosis of hospitalised patients with acute myocardial
 infarction has also been investigated [UOA3-3142, UOA3-3145], as well as effects of steroids on
 CVD risk in patients with inflammatory diseases, including RA [UOA3-4475].

 Recent initiatives are driving forward the strategy in other areas. HABIT (MRC £145k) uses a
 cohort of families from deprived areas to optimise intervention by health visitors. The BRIGHT
 Trial (NIHR HTA £1.95m) with Dundee and Sheffield, is addressing the oral health of young


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 people in deprived areas across the UK, while the NIHR DRF OPTIMuM project (£315k) aims to
 improve management of dental trauma injury with a view to NHS wide adoption [UOA3-2594].

 Future Research and Impact Strategy
 Our strategies are synergised with UoL’s 2020-25 strategy, which envisages a civic university
 with strong connections to the local, national and international communities in an increasingly
 dynamic globalised world. Our Faculty impact strategy also provides the mechanism by which
 we accelerate the translation process between research and societal impact. UoA3 will continue
 to lead and influence through our strategic collaborations and national and international
 leadership roles. We will respond to emerging and national research challenges (Figure 2). We
 are already leading five COVID-19 projects (funding beyond REF2021 >£1.6m) - with one NIHR
 project evaluating contact tracing in care homes using digital technology. We will seize
 opportunities in funding for global grand challenges, particularly ageing, digital economy and
 AMR, aligning with FMH’s mission as a leading biomedical and health service research campus.
 We will leverage the UoL’s International Strategy for increasing and diversifying our funding
 portfolio and PGR cohort.

 Nursing & Allied Health aims to undertake internationally excellent research that improves the
 lives, experiences and clinical outcomes of the people who receive healthcare in the UK. Priority
 objectives include:
     • Increasing income through longer and larger awards to improve research sustainability;
     • Continuing to increase our NIHR external fellowships;
     • Engaging with international stakeholders to develop transnational strategic partnerships,
         and promoting R&I with global influence to raise our international profile and reputation;
     • Augmenting impact by:
             o Providing support and training to build on and develop new societal benefit;
             o Maximising the opportunity for local and international impact e.g. through NICHE-
                 Leeds and NIHR ARC YH;
             o Capitalising on advances in healthcare technology, data science and artificial
                 intelligence (AI) - linking with wider UoL and LIDA initiatives;
             o Building upon our clinical academic research career pathways to link our research
                 with implementation of policy and practice in the NHS;
             o Expanding our co-creation of research to ensure it meets stakeholder needs,
                 which will include working with and expanding our networks to undertake
                 research in and alongside the NHS and to improve dissemination and spread.

 Dentistry aims to improve oral health and quality of life throughout the lifespan for all societal
 groups through internationally excellent research and outreach. Our strategy objectives will
 enhance collaboration and connectivity between the Basic and Dental Sciences and beyond, to
 span the translational pipeline from bench-patient-population. We will increase research income
 by targeting funding opportunities for multi-morbidity, AMR, medical technologies, digital
 dentistry and clinical trials. Priority objectives include:
     • Maintaining the quality and critical-mass of OMS and investing in Digital Dentistry;
     • Broadening the research base linking oral and systemic health - ‘Putting the mouth back
         in the body’, maximising impact and PPIE through DenTCRU and the BRC;
     • Growing our industrial portfolio through emerging partnerships for which spin-out
         companies and licences are under development with Engineering, Physics, Chemistry,
         Biological Sciences, Design;
     • Leading initiatives with Postgraduate Deaneries allowing Dental Foundation dentists to
         participate in research;
     • Enhancing our international profile and reputation through:
              o Developing strategic partnerships with overseas institutions/industry to enable
                 high quality fundamental and clinical translational research;
              o Actively engaging with a broad range of international partners (including overseas
                 governments, institutions, industry, and alumni), global HE networks, and learned
                 professional societies.

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Development
 To deliver research vitality and sustainability requires highly motivated, high-calibre staff. Our
 staffing strategy is built within a fair progression framework, shaped by our Equality, Diversity
 and Inclusion (EDI) commitments to:
     • Retain, support and promote existing staff;
     • Attract and recruit world leading researchers;
     • Nurture and develop our ECRs for future leadership;
     • Ensure equal opportunities across the career span for personal and professional
         development.

 Recruitment and Retention
 In line with our R&I strategy, we have focused on research capacity building and succession
 planning, through senior posts, appointments of ECRs, new strategic cross-faculty joint
 appointments (e.g. Tronci), and joint University/LTHT appointments (e.g. Siddle). As part of the
 ‘Great Minds’ programme (REF5a), we secured six competitive UAFs (Absolom, Boele,
 Tennant, Feichtinger; with Ong and Peyman as joint appointments between FMH and Faculty
 of Engineering & Physical Sciences. Increased research activity and income led to 45 research
 associates/fellows appointed (Table 1). Our appointments/promotions comprised 68% females
 and 32% males. Six percent of UoA3 staff promoted self-reported to be from BAME groups and
 7% declared a disability.

 N&AH: invested and recruited talent at all levels, including lecturer (e.g. Darwin, Rodriguez,
 Stacey, Kennedy, Clibbens, Shloim, O’Meara, Smith); associate professor (e.g. Horne, Zaidi,
 Milnes, O’Hara, Alldred) and professor (Thompson, Spilsbury, Hughes, Baker, McHugh,
 Keenan).

 Dentistry: invested to ensure sustained growth and strength across themes through: OMS
 succession planning for the Chair in Oral Biology (Kirkham to Al-Jawad) and appointment of
 lecturers (Davies, El-Gendy, Tronci); three UAFs to expand IDR opportunities; Professorial
 recruitment in Paediatric Dentistry (Drummond) and clinical chairs in Paediatrics and
 Restorative Dentistry give leadership continuity to key areas.

 Table 1: Appointment/Promotion Summary
  Unit                                     N&AH                    Dentistry
                                 Recruited Promoted Total Recruited Promoted Total
  Professor                          6        3       9       5          1     6
  Associate Prof/Senior Lecturer     6        2       8       2          5     7
  Lecturer (Grade7/8)                9        3      12       8          3    11
  University Academic Fellow         3         -      3       3          -     3
  Senior Research Fellow             1        1       2       0          -     0
  Research Associate/Fellow         26         -     26      19          -    19

 Training and Professional Development
 Our ‘Organisational Development & Professional Learning’ (ODPL) unit provides training for all
 staff while the ‘Research & Innovation Service’ (RIS) holds courses on ethics, intellectual
 property, industrial collaborations and impact training (REF5a).

 We have annual staff development reviews where staff are supported to plan their immediate
 and long-term personal development needs. To help with career development and succession
 planning we have:
     • Developed staff to become independent researchers, gaining their own Principal
         Investigator funding: e.g. N&AH: Clibbens, Rodriguez; Dentistry: Vinall-Collier, Wu;

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     •   Provided research secondments for part-time lecturers e.g. N&AH: Darwin;
     •   Developed three nurse trainee academic positions and supported seven N&AH and five
         Dentistry staff to do PhDs, supporting transition from clinical to academic careers;
     •   Supported secondments, sabbaticals and study leave e.g. N&AH: Adderley seconded to
         develop a ‘National Wound Care Strategy’ for NHS England.

 Our annual ‘Rewards & Recognition Scheme’ provides discretionary payments for the
 outstanding performance of staff (44 awarded: 61% female; 39% male). All staff are supported to
 submit research bids, with pump-priming funds available for the preliminary research required to
 be competitive for external funding (e.g. SoH: 29 projects totalling £95K). All grant applications
 are reviewed internally by experienced staff prior to submission, providing formative feedback to
 enhance competitiveness. An FMH ‘International Mobility Award Scheme’ funded development
 of international collaborations e.g. N&AH: with Universities of La Trobe and Melbourne for
 research into sexual and mental health (resulting in a collaborative Australian Government
 National Health Research grant); developing research with staff working in care homes with
 Maastricht University, Netherlands (resulting in external funding); Dentistry: with the University of
 New South Wales (UNSW) in bone tissue engineering leading to trilateral partnership with
 UNSW and University of Otago, New Zealand.

 To improve well-being, staff are encouraged to use UoL classes/support through the Logik
 Centre and have access to the (award-winning) University Staff Counselling & Psychological
 Support Service. Examples of initiatives to improve well-being include: mental health support;
 campus walks for health benefits and viewing sustainability projects; and events for staff to come
 together for support and sharing of research ideas.

 Development of Clinical Academics, Contract and Early Career Researchers
 We have a clear pathway for non-medical clinical academics between the UoL and LTHT,
 supported by a Joint Clinical Academic Training Committee. We are proudly the first HEI/NHS
 partnership to develop a reciprocal agreement with the Regional NHS to honour terms and
 conditions for our health professionals on this pathway. In N&AH, we developed the role of the
 clinical academic midwife; and are supporting two specialist nurses from LTHT on the 70@70
 ‘NIHR Senior Nurse & Midwife Research Leadership Programme’ and seven PCAFs.

 We are committed to the ‘UK Concordat to Support the Development of Researchers’.
 Developments for ECRs include: being representatives on School and Faculty committees;
 recognition (payment/time off) for teaching and supervision; protected workloads; and specific
 career training and fellowship support. The ‘Careers in Research Online Survey’ (CROS)
 enables UoL to assess the development and well-being of its post-doctoral community. The
 2017 CROS indicated that 92% of FMH research staff would recommend the UoL as an
 employer. Post-doctoral staff have a high awareness (82%) of how their research fits into their
 School and 82% are satisfied with the range of training and development opportunities.

 A key UoA3 strength and focus is supporting ECRs to achieve their potential and research
 capacity development. Three ECRs were awarded ‘Wellcome Institutional Strategic Support
 Funding’. By providing mentorship and a supportive environment to fulfil career aspirations, we
 have developed academic research staff from our PGRs (e.g. N&AH: Shloim, Alcacer-Pitarch;
 Dentistry: Bani Hani, Al-Taie) and from our post-doctoral fellows (e.g. N&AH: Harley, Siddle
 (with UoA2), Randell; Dentistry: Davies, El-Gendy, Feichtinger, Tronci). Dentistry also hosts a
 Newton Fellow from India with UoA6.

 Bespoke training programmes support our clinical academics and our UAFs’ transition to
 independence. From 2015-2018, a FMH ‘Post-Doctoral Academy’ provided one-to-one support
 with experienced academics for 43 ECRs, increasing our success with fellowship applications by
 a third (led by McHugh). We actively promote mentorship, e.g. N&AH: 37 staff in a formalised
 mentorship programme; Dentistry: all staff are offered mentoring, some mentors contributing to
 the Aurora leadership programme campus-wide (e.g. Pavitt, Kirkham). Our alumni provide

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supportive initiatives for ECRs, e.g. four internships at NICE provided by the Deputy Chief
 Executive. Staff gained UoL awards for providing mentorship in impact development (N&AH:
 Harley; Dentistry: Csikar, Vinall-Collier).

 We have ‘Research Development Networks’ led by ECRs (including PGRs), enabling
 interdisciplinary links and assisting with career and academic progression. Sessions include:
 preparing for fellowships; developing project ideas; writing grants and publication. For our
 PCAFs, we established 10 seminars supporting them in developing their academic careers and
 doctoral fellowship applications. From our first cohort, all seven PCAFs submitted CDRF
 applications (five with UoL), with two being awarded. The UoL ‘Crucible’ programme has
 enabled ECRs (three from UoA3) to understand collaborative working through workshops and
 the opportunity to work on an interdisciplinary bid. We have ‘Global Community Events’ bringing
 together our international PGRs and researchers for networking and informal support.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 The UoL is committed to addressing EDI issues in a supportive and professional working
 environment. We have an improved awareness of EDI through: mandatory training; working with
 the UoL Equality Policy Unit; updating communication of policies; having EDI as a core agenda
 item in all committees; ensuring issues can be raised and addressed; and enabling staff to
 attend UoL diversity networks. We proudly achieved the first Athena SWAN Gold ever awarded
 to a School of Medicine (2019) and hold Silver awards for the SoH (2018) and SoD (2017). We
 have shown positive support for women, changing the culture and gender balance in senior
 management decision-making. We sponsor places on quality career development programmes
 such as ‘Aurora’, to support women with leadership aspirations in academia; and Keenan co-
 leads the Leeds Female Leaders Network (~800 members) in partnership with LTHT, with
 feedback/evaluations showing staff believed the network enhanced their career development.

 We are aware that much is to be done across the sector and initiatives include:
   • A BAME Reference group to drive activities including our framework of inclusive
       behaviours and conduct;
   • Creation of a physical presence in Bradford (where there is high ethnic and
       socioeconomic diversity) by using Wolfson (WCAHR) to build a future channel of talent
       from underrepresented groups;
   • A LGBT and Staff Network;
   • Professional and career development through a Faculty Academic Development Fund
       (£15K/award: four awarded) for all staff returning from long-term sickness or parental
       leave;
   • Flexible working, including total hours and working from home;
   • Extension of fixed-term contracts to the end of maternity leave to ensure support and
       access to redeployment;
   • Career coaching for staff seeking promotion to improve the diversity at senior levels;
   • Identifying and tackling intersectionality issues of gender, race and disability, to
       understand the impact on researcher development and progression;
   • Creating parity and sustainability of career development for staff on fixed-term contracts
       through increasing time for contract researchers on personal development/training and
       creating permanent contracts where possible e.g. at end of fellowships.

 Research Students
 There were 194 (134.2 FTE) Research Doctoral Degree awards during the assessment period.
 In FMH, 15% of our PGRs have co-supervisors in other Faculties (including Transport Studies,
 Chemistry, Computing, Physics, Food Science, Engineering, Materials Science, Biology,
 Mathematics and Design) and other Universities (e.g. Manchester, Bradford, Edinburgh,
 Sheffield, York, QMUL). This yielded integration of our PGRs within the wider research
 community, benefiting their student experience through access to state-of-the-art facilities and
 high-quality IDR and industrial placements (e.g. CDT students).

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PhD funding streams included:
    • Externally funded PhD Fellowships: eight NIHR Doctoral Fellowships (Total award
       £2.84m with £781k attributed to UoA3); five UK Charity Funded fellowships (Kidney
       Research UK, Asthma UK, Breast Cancer Now, British Health Foundation (two)); and
       one ESRC fellowship;
    • International/Government funded scholarships: five Indonesian Health Government; one
       Bangladesh Presidential Scholarship; eight Saudi Arabian Government; one China
       Scholarship Council;
    • NIHR PSTRC scholarships: two;
    • Alumni Funding: SoD gifted £262k to support four Frederick Hopper PhD scholarships
       with matched funding from SoD/UoL, and one MedTech PhD in Active Lives;
    • Internally funded PhD fellowships: 32 funded, including Leeds Doctoral Scholar
       Programme: three awards; and Leeds Anniversary Research Scholarships (REF5a): 11
       of the 110 UoL awarded in UoA3;
    • EPSRC CDT TERM: Dentistry supervised 22 PhD studentships within musculoskeletal
       tissue repair and regeneration;
    • Industrially Funded (Dentistry): one fully-funded (Colgate-Palmolive) and one BBSRC
       CASE award (GlaxoSmithKline, GSK);
    • Joint LTHT and SoH Clinical Academic PhD Fellowships: (funded by CLAHRC-YH). Two
       PGR students provided with a high-quality training route into a clinical academic career
       and continue to strengthen links between LTHT and the University.

 Our PGRs are members of UoA3’s themes attending research meetings, school away days, and
 social meetings. PGRs have embedded representation on EDI and research committees. We
 support our PGRs with publishing and they co-authored 26% of our submitted outputs. PGRs
 have an individualised training and development plan supported by an additional £1k+/annum.
 They participate and present at School/Faculty research conferences and symposia. PhD
 monitoring is through ‘GRAD’, the UoL online system which records progression. The Leeds
 Doctoral College (LDC) brings together all UoL support services (e.g. library, IT, student support)
 to enhance the PGR journey. Access to a range of development opportunities and transferable
 skills training is provided by ODPL and LDC events. Velikova co-manages the UKRI CDT in AI
 for Medical Diagnosis and Care supporting PGRs in transforming cancer care through the
 application of AI, collaborating with School of Computing.

 We have been working diligently to promote a supportive environment for our PGRs, the impact
 of which was captured in the ‘Postgraduate Research Experience Surveys’. Research culture
 has been transformed from 2015, and satisfaction with supervision quality remains high (N&AH:
 100% in 2017; 95% in 2019; Dentistry: 80% in 2017; 91% in 2019). Further improvements are
 focused on developing opportunities for PGRs and links to the wider research community, e.g.
 meetings with LTHT clinical staff, and global community events connecting students to
 intercultural and international activities.

 Employability: Our UoL Careers Centre supports PGRs through: a career architect programme
 (careers beyond academic research), careers fairs, one-to-one mentorship, and a drop-in-
 service. We continue to support our PGRs both during and after completion of their PhDs,
 through publication writing and additional research opportunities e.g. five employed in N&AH as
 researchers/lecturers; promotion of Dentistry staff following PhD awards (two to Associate
 Professor). Examples of wider employment of our PGRs include: Research Programme
 Managers and Lead Consultant Nurses which have strengthened further our NHS
 collaborations; Professors in Dental Faculties (e.g. Manchester, Kuwait University and King
 Saud and King Khalid Universities, Saudi Arabia).

 PGR Development: We have engaged with national, regional and University initiatives to support
 and develop our next generation of academic researchers and increase our PGRs, including:
    • Pre-doctoral fellowships: PCAFs-seven awarded; one Royal College of Surgeons;



                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Research Internships: We funded BRC/CLAHRC Post-Master’s internships; HEE/NIHR
        Internships for clinical staff (two now awarded CDRFs); and Versus Arthritis research
        internships for N&AH clinicians to gain experience in musculoskeletal projects (six
        awards/£6k each);
    •   Research Masters Programme: Our NIHR funded MSc in Clinical Research, (2013-2018:
        61 places) increased research skills and provided a platform to develop future clinical
        academics;
    •   PGRs in Paediatric Dentistry: 42 students have graduated from: DPaedDent (3-yrs FT), a
        doctoral programme delivering clinical training coupled with research embedded into
        clinical practice; the Integrated MSc and PhD in Oral Sciences (Paediatric Dentistry) 5-
        year programme with combined masters training and a clinically-related PhD project.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 The award value for UoA3 is £26.8m with in period expenditure of £21.8m. Our average annual
 project and programme awards have increased by 27.7% from £3m in REF2014 to £3.83m in
 REF2021. Our portfolio of grants increased and diversified due to our transformational research
 strategy with significant investment in new staff and development of early career academics as
 independent investigators. During REF2021, we were awarded 423 grants with the majority of
 total funding from NIHR (40%) and UK charities (28%) (Figure 3). Our NIHR total external award
 value was £32.3m with UoA3 share of £14m. Research Council and EU funding increased over
 four-fold and seventeen-fold, respectively.




                        Figure 3: Research awards by HESA category

 We built on the success of smaller projects, securing larger and longer term NIHR programme
 funding (e.g. Alldred, CHIPPS; Nixon, PRESSURE 2; House, FReSHSTART; Douglas
 FiCTION, Pavitt, ALABAMA, MS-SMART); and other NIHR project funding (e.g. Baker, O’Hara,

                                                                                         Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Nixon, House, Spilsbury, McHugh, Hughes, Nelson; Day, Douglas, Pavitt). Keenan was co-
 lead on the successful £6.7m NIHR BRC bid and Douglas a co-lead of ADVOCATE (€6m
 Horizon 2020 grant). Day, Spilsbury, Thompson and O’Hara were funded on CLAHRC-YH,
 with Day and Spilsbury co-applicants and funded on ARC YH.

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 Since 2014, FMH has invested £36m in workspaces to support laboratory-based, clinical and
 applied research (SoH £1.7m and SoD £5.6m). Larger PhD suites provide a vibrant research
 environment and excellent student experience, and ensure students are embedded into the
 research community. High quality, fit for purpose space maintained to a high standard has
 promoted staff well-being and provided an environment conducive to knowledge generation,
 scholarship and communication.

 UoA3 staff are co-located across the main campus and within LTHT premises, providing access
 to key facilities and enhancing collaborations. N&AH are located in the SoH (Baines Wing) and
 SoM (Chapel Allerton Hospital & Worsley Building). Dentistry occupy space in the Worsley
 Building, which houses the Leeds Dental Institute (LDI), and the Wellcome Trust Brenner
 Building (WTBB) at St. James Teaching Hospital. OMS moved to WTBB in 2014 to high quality
 labs to be co-located with other SoM research institutes, providing access to shared facilities
 (e.g. Next-Gen-Sequencing, fluorescence-activated-cell-sorting).

 The Wolfson Centre for Applied Health Research also provides access to its facilities for UoA3
 staff. It is a new £3.1m facility launched by the Universities of Leeds and Bradford and BTHFT
 (with £1m matched by UoL), tackling health and social care priorities and with leading
 researchers in: ‘Healthy Childhood’ (Day), ‘Healthy Ageing’ (Spilsbury) and ‘High Quality and
 Safe Care’ (O’Hara).

 We work closely with, and are supported by, the NIHR Leeds BRC (Keenan, Deputy Director);
 NIHR infrastructure established in 2008 to support translational research in priority areas of high
 disease burden and clinical need; £13m was awarded (2008-2017) based on the strong
 collaborative links and the foundation of excellence in musculoskeletal research, with a further
 £6.7m awarded (2017-2022).

 LIDA has provided new opportunities, bringing together staff with interests in data science and
 analytics. In N&AH ground-breaking AI is driving digital pathology/imaging research [UOA3-
 2377]; and epidemiological research has demonstrated the risks of selection bias in childhood
 leukaemia [UOA3-1658 with UoAs2&14] and the value of using new approaches to understand
 confounding in applied health research [UOA3-1657, UOA3-4332 with UoAs1,2,14]. In Dentistry,
 cardiovascular research with UoAs1&2 investigates mortality from heart attacks, including
 COVID-19 [UOA3-4476], funded through a Turing Institute internship and two BHF awards.

 The Yorkshire & Humber National Patient Safety Translational Research Centre, funded by
 NIHR (£3m) engages staff and patients to deliver research that makes healthcare safer. From
 N&AH, O’Hara (co-applicant) leads the ‘Patient Involvement in Patient Safety’ theme with Baker
 as deputy lead. Alldred leads the ‘Safe Use of Medicines’ theme supported by Zaidi.

 The Leeds Clinical Trials Research Unit is a UKCRC Registered CTU accredited with the
 National Cancer Research Institute (NCRI) with a national/international reputation for conducting
 multi-centre trials with clinicians, other trialists and methodologists. Specifically, it supports
 studies in N&AH [e.g.UOA3-1432, UOA3-1434] with Nixon, Deputy Director. Our Leeds
 research trials are delivered through the NIHR Leeds Clinical Research Facility (LCRF), hosted
 within the LTHT, which provides infrastructure to deliver over 100 early-stage, experimental or
 complex trials annually.

 DenTCRU is an Oral & Dental Health hub of the LCRF, one of only two of the 23 NIHR CRFs to
 include dentistry. It is a state-of-the-art six chair facility with active links to the LDI, dedicated
 specimen handling facilities and access to our main laboratories. The strategic appointment of

                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Director Pavitt (2014; clinical trial methodologist), and Wu (2015; senior statistician providing
 robust statistical input for clinical trials, health data mining and linkage) together have led to
 increased translational activity and high quality clinical research.

 The BCMR is an interdisciplinary institute cojoined with the new Schools of Physics and
 Computing, with 15,700m2 fit for purpose space. Dentistry is integrated (Management
 Committee: Al-Jawad) ensuring augmentation of research in biomineralisation, biofilms and
 hard/soft materials, including hydrogels and cells. It houses the AFM facility (co-managed by
 Thomson) in ultra-low noise laboratories comprising seven state-of-the-art instruments with
 investment over £1.2m in period (Wellcome, BBSRC, EPSRC). An EPSRC facility experimental
 officer supports increased capacity of IDR across campus and beyond.

 Laboratory equipment/facilities: SoD purchased £726k of new research equipment in period, all
 with dedicated technical support. Digital dentistry has complete 3D printing workflow kit,
 including two commercial 3D laboratory scanners, an intraoral scanner with associated milling
 machine, and a custom-made 3D scanner. OMS houses imaging using scanning electron
 microscopy (with elemental analysis), confocal scanning laser microscope and X-ray
 microtomography; tissue culture, proteomics and protein purification equipment and quartz
 crystal microbalance; microbiology laboratories with chemostats, constant depth film fermenters,
 anaerobic culture facilities; and full suite of mechanical testing facilities for hard/soft materials.
 Our HTA-approved ‘Skeletal Tissue Bank’ enables researchers to access samples including
 teeth, bone, ligament, cartilage and stem cells. Computational collaborative work for health
 statistics and biofilm modelling utilise the UoL High-Performance Computing infrastructure.
 Synchrotron X-ray scattering of hard/soft materials at the Diamond Light Source, and the
 European Synchrotron Radiation Facility (ESRF), is accessed through peer-reviewed beamtime
 allocation. Medical physics utilises imaging kit within the UoL and LTHT including: six 1.5T and
 four 3T MRIs; two clinical PET/CT and one trimodal (PET/SPECT/CT) preclinical scanners.

 Central support for R&I: A reorganisation of our FMH administrative infrastructure has provided:
 more effective financial, HR and contract advice; support for public engagement; a flexible
 approach to research management; and improved communication with funding bodies.
 Comprehensive support is provided by our Schools’ research offices including induction for staff;
 advice and signposting for processes/services, budget monitoring; and liaison with Faculty-
 based services including, legal, purchasing, finance and HR. We are supported by three Faculty
 Research & Innovation Development Managers who also provide funding intelligence, grant
 management and facilitate collaborations. Effective communication between the RIS (housed
 within NEXUS) and NHS partners supports management of intellectual property rights. FMH
 provides ethics review processes to ensure compliance with the University’s values-based policy
 on ethics, the NHS framework for ethical research and legislative requirements. A quality
 assurance team, jointly funded with LTHT, provides support and guidance for clinical trials
 governance.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations within the University
 Our commitment to IDR is evidenced by our UoL collaborations described in previous sections.
 We collaborate with colleagues in: Engineering, Physics, Maths, Computer Science, Food
 Science, Psychology, Geography, Sociology, Biological Sciences, Data Analytics and Business.
 Key examples include: Design of new wound care products between the Schools of Design,
 Dentistry and Medicine; SAP hydrogels for cartilage repair [UOA3-1758]; biofilm modelling
 [UOA3-500]; rapid cell separation technology [UOA3-26]; and signalling mechanisms of stem
 cell migration [UOA3-1684, UOA3-1686].

 Regional/National Collaborations
 Our NHS partnerships are shown in Figure 1. Specific examples include:


                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 N&AH: Our clinical academics and researchers have joint contracts with the local NHS Trusts.
 We have one honorary Clinical Professor and three Associate Clinical Professors. Our Dame
 Kathleen Raven Clinical Chair of Nursing (Thompson) enables a direct strategic link to the Lead
 Senior Nurse for Research in LTHT and promotes integrated working and joint planning. A Joint
 Clinical Academic Committee (Chair-Keenan, member-Thompson) provides oversight to the
 development of clinical academic careers across the partnership. We employ one academic
 clinical midwife between LTHT and the SoH. Siddle, is the first Consultant Podiatrist at LTHT
 and Associate Professor at UoL, a novel clinical and academic role promoting joint working and
 building research capacity. Representation as a Non-Executive Director for LYPFT and Chair of
 the Quality committee (Thompson then Baker) has enhanced our research collaborations with
 this Trust and promoted best use of research to benefit the development of NHS services. We
 work closely with Leeds Cancer Centre, one of the largest UK cancer care providers, with Stark
 as Clinical Lead.
 Dentistry: We have six honorary consultant joint appointments with LTHT: four Clinical
 Professors, including Restorative (Nattress) and Paediatric Dentistry (Drummond); Oral
 Surgery (Mighell); and Applied Health & Translational Research (Pavitt). NHS clinical
 academics also make critical contributions to our research portfolio, e.g. Kanatas of the LDI has
 an Honorary Chair in Oral Maxillofacial Surgery, with 94 outputs in period including COVID-19
 implications for head and neck cancer surgery.

 Figure 1 also summarises our collaborative centres.

 The LAHP improves health and well-being by driving innovation through collaboration. We
 contribute through the generation and translation of research knowledge, e.g. the partnership
 between the Leeds Care Home Providers Network and the University has improved the quality
 of those living and working in the long-term care sector (Spilsbury).

 The YHASN supports and promotes adoption and spread of research in the NHS. N&AH staff
 support workstreams in: Healthy Ageing (Spilsbury); Patient Safety (O’Hara); Medicines
 Optimisation (Alldred, Zaidi) and Mental Health (Baker, Hughes).

 UoA3 staff played major roles in CLAHRC-YH which included five-year NIHR-funded
 infrastructure (£11.5m with matched NHS partner funding) conducting quality applied research
 and evidence-based implementation. One project improved primary care management of frailty
 in older people (Spilsbury); Thompson and O’Hara were collaborators on the ‘Evidence-based
 Transformation’ theme; and Hughes and Baker were part of the ‘Mental Health’ theme which
 showed an improvement in the health and well-being of the YH population. In the new NIHR
 ARC YH (£9m), staff have major roles in programmes for N&AH: older people and frailty
 (Spilsbury); mental health and physical co-morbidity (Hughes & Baker); improvement science
 (Thompson); and Dentistry: healthy childhood, with Dental Lead through Born-in-Bradford’s
 Better Start cohort (Day).

 PROSpECT (Pavitt, Founding Chair) is the UKs first ‘Oral & Dental Clinical Studies Group &
 Research Consortium’, leading the national agenda for relationships between periodontal
 disease and systemic health outcomes e.g. RA, cancer, diabetes and CVD. It brings together
 NIHR, charities (BHF and Diabetes UK) and industry (GSK) and aligns with the James Lind
 Alliance research prioritisation, and is the first endorsed by the ‘British Society for Oral and
 Dental Research’ (BSODR).

 Medical Technologies and Engineering are a UoL strength, where WELMEC (2009-15:
 Wellcome/EPSRC £11.2m) focused on new types of regenerative intervention for
 musculoskeletal and cardiovascular systems. Dentistry’s significant involvement included the
 EPSRC TERM CDT and augmented research in hard and soft tissue engineering (Kirkham,
 Davies, Feichtinger, Tronci, Raif, Wood, Yang). The current EPSRC MedTech IKC facilitates
 collaboration between companies, scientists and clinicians to accelerate commercial
 development. It is supporting translation of enamel SAP therapies (ICS#UOA3-5), including anti-

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 microbials for the oral cavity (Davies); gene-activated matrices and acellular scaffolds for
 cartilage regeneration (Feichtinger); collagen hydrogels for wound healing (Tronci, Wood); as
 well as impacts from Digital Dentistry (Keeling).

 The NBIC is a BBSRC-Innovate IKC (2017) with industry-matched PoC funding. The UoL
 partnership is led by Devine and Carr (Design), who also lead the ‘Leeds Biofilm Network’
 (2020) now with >60 academics from across campus and intersecting with AMR@Leeds
 (Devine, Steering Group member) and the Leeds Institute of Fluid Dynamics.

 We collaborate with multiple UK academic institutions through funded research projects and
 publications e.g. BRIGHTLIGHT (Stark) with researchers from London, Manchester,
 Birmingham and Southampton; CHIPPs study (Alldred) with researchers from East Anglia,
 Norwich, Aberdeen and Belfast; FiCTION project (Douglas) with Dundee and Newcastle, plus
 most UK dental schools.

 International Collaborations
 Our international collaborations have strengthened through ambitious partnering with high
 quality international institutions; and achieving far-reaching impact to the greatest number of
 stakeholders (Figure 4). Noteworthy examples include:
 N&AH:
     • Appointment of two visiting Professors (Maastricht, Sydney), strengthening our
         international research in care homes and medicines management;
     • Developing research capacity and the research skills of 25 midwives from Indonesia
         through attending SoH research programmes;
     • Building additional research and community links in Indonesia with funding to explore the
         effect of COVID-19 on women's experiences of pregnancy; also developing research
         capacity of two graduated international PGRs (McGowan);
     • Leading the Research Centre for Patient Involvement at Aarhus University, Denmark
         (Bekker);
     • Improving quality of care and services for care home residents through Netherlands-
         Leeds Living Lab research (Spilsbury);
     • Developing electronic-rehabilitation programmes for chronic knee pain with the University
         of Melbourne (McHugh);
     • Standardising therapeutic assessment and related therapy in repeated self-harm with the
         Université Catholique de Louvain (House).
 Dentistry:
    • Sharing our complex oral microbiome models for metagenomic studies with the National
        Institute for Cancer Research and Temple University, USA (Devine);
    • Control of angiogenic gene expression of human gingival fibroblasts funded by New
        Zealand Dental Association [UOA3-3403] through Honorary Professorship at Otago
        (Drummond);
    • Clinical assessment and genetic factor evidence gathering of enamel defects and
        pathologies in Khartoum State, Sudan (population: >5m) funded through the Borrow
        Foundation, 2017-2022 (Mighell, Day);
    • First imaging by AFM at the liquid-liquid interface of nanoparticle assembly, with X-ray
        studies at the ESRF, France [UOA3-1094] (Thomson);
    • Determination of Heimler Syndrome as a peroxisome-biogenesis disorder, genetically
        linking Ai to other phenotype abnormalities. A multi-centre UK study with University of
        Antwerp, Belgium and Mohammed-V University, Morocco funded through Wellcome
        Trust and a Marie-Curie ITN [UOA3-1002] (Mighell).




                                                                                         Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                 Figure 4: Global reach of UoA3 international collaborations

 We have 12 Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) with Universities resulting in strengthened
 international collaborations; research capacity development; and a 22% increase in international
 PGR students. Our MoUs include:
     • N&AH: Universitas Muhammadiyah Surakarta, and UNISA University, Yogyakarta,
         Indonesia; Charles Stuart University Australia;
     • Dentistry: Nanjing, Sichuan and Lanzhou Universities, China; Seoul National University;
         Osaka University and Michigan University. A UK-China British Council workshop
         cemented partnership with the West China School of Stomatology, Sichuan University,
         the leading Chinese SoD.

 Industrial Collaborations
 N&AH: Our industry funding was £225k. Collaborations include: Pfizer (online symptom
 monitoring for breast cancer, Velikova); PharmaMar (patient outcome research into sarcomas,
 Stark) and IQVIA (lung cancer patient-reported outcome measures, Velikova).
 Dentistry: Industrial funding awards over £1.7m led to three licences and eight new patents,
 including amphiphilic peptides, collagen hydrogels, PET imaging method and a dental scanner.
 Collaborations include:
 Regional/UK: Verna-Wright PDRA fellowship and studentship on tissue engineering of ligaments
 and cartilage with Xiros plc (Raif, £393k); Probiotics research supported by ADM Protexin, and
 BBSRC/GSK CASE studentship (Devine, £127k); Enamel remineralisation with GSK (Al-Jawad,
 £141k); ‘Strong Teeth’ initiative with Proctor & Gamble for oral health intervention targeting
 parents (Day, £321k).
 International: Solvay Specialty Polymers (Belgian multi-national) have seen us outperform the
 USA site (for new dental clasps, Nattress, Wood £392k); Colgate-Palmolive, USA, continuous
 funding since 2010 (host microbe homeostasis, Devine £652k); Kanghui Medical Innovation,
 China (biomimetic scaffolds for enhancing osteointegration, Yang).

 Patient and Public Involvement and Engagement (PPIE)
 Our active PPIE groups are integral to our research. Our BRC PPIE Group includes over 200
 members who assist in the prioritisation, design, conduct and dissemination of our
 musculoskeletal research. The group works with closely with other patient organisations,
 including INVOLVE who have provided guidance in development of the group. The BRC has an
 Outreach Lead, who works with UoA3 to review research protocols and applications to promote

                                                                                          Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 wider inclusion and access to our research participants, particularly in terms of
 underrepresented groups. All studies affiliated with the BRC are designed in partnership with the
 PPIE Group. Our N&AH musculoskeletal researchers have developed 23 funded projects
 (£2.4m) with the BRC PPIE group during REF2021.

 Pavitt established the SMILE AIDER PPIE forum that ensures all SoD clinical research is
 reviewed and trials are co-produced to establish research prioritisation, maximise patient
 benefits and recruitment uptake. An academic lead for PPIE (Smith) leads our ‘Service User
 and Carer Community’ (30 members) and the ‘Involvement Advisory Group’ informing our
 nursing educational and research activities and providing a forum to discuss PPIE activities,
 including feedback on research activities. A University-wide forum (co-led by Smith) provides
 professional support for PPIE work in relation to teaching and research. O’Hara is a member of
 the Engagement & Advisory Board for ‘The Healthcare Improvement Studies Institute’,
 University of Cambridge.

 Outreach Activities
    • The UoL annual ‘Be Curious’ event (>1200 participants/annum) enables participation and
       wider research dissemination through engagement with our diverse regional community.
       We delivered sessions on: ‘Your Grip Matters’ getting visitors to test, learn exercises and
       improve hand grip strength; ‘Big Mouth’ showed children how to fix broken teeth,
       featuring on ‘BBC’s Operation Ouch’ at the National Science and Media Museum,
       Bradford;
    • An ESRC seminar series ‘Re-imagining professionalism: towards co-production’
       highlighted the importance of co-production in the development of mental health services
       and research (Baker);
    • Pavitt and Keenan have been involved in community initiatives to promote COVID-19
       research and vaccine participation to socially disadvantaged communities/groups
       (BAME, older people, those with comorbidities);
    • Pavitt, a UoL PPIE champion led an award-winning theatre/film production “Don’t Smile”
       for awareness of Amelogenesis Imperfecta, which showcased at the 2019 NIHR CRF
       conference leading to a commissioning of “COVID and Me” and the sequel “COVID and
       Us”;
    • RAISED in Yorkshire (Research Activity in Schools Evaluating Dental health) is a
       community collaboration to involve under-represented, at-risk young people to provide
       exposure to oral health research, increasing students’ confidence to inspire a new
       generation of dentists and researchers;
    • Work for PHE supported discussion with homeless people to develop flexible
       commissioning for their dental care facilitated by a UoL engagement excellence
       fellowship (Csikar, Vinall-Collier);
    • Douglas led WP2 of ADVOCATE, responsible for the delivery of the PPI elements for all
       six European countries. The stakeholders ranged from policy makers, general public,
       dental teams, academics and commercial partners, and informed barriers to dental
       service provision and oral disease prevention.

 Policy
 UoA3 staff continue to be involved in government policy. Examples include:

 N&AH: Safer staffing with NHS England & NHS Improvement (Baker); police managing violence
 in people with mental health problems without force with College of Policing (Baker); developing
 a National Wound Care strategy for NHS England (Adderley); national guidance on medicines
 administration in care homes for Department of Health (DoH) (Spilsbury, Alldred, Baker);
 standards for Sexual Safety in Mental Health Inpatient Services with National Collaborating
 Centre for Mental Health and NHS Improvement (Hughes); setting standards on patient
 decision aid and shared decision-making developments for NICE and the International Patient



                                                                                           Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Decision Aids Standards collaboration (Bekker); leading the development of a national metric on
 quality of life for the cancer dashboard as part of National Cancer Strategy (Velikova).
 Dentistry: Two policy debates and input into DoH Evidence and Learning Group, to directly
 influence new dental contract configuration (Douglas, Pavitt); impact of oral health on education
 to the Department for Education (Day); guidelines for digital orthodontic record keeping,
 published by the British Orthodontic Society (Keeling); evidence from ALADDIN study for
 phasing out mercury amalgam teeth fillings informed the Minamata Conference of Parties
 (Geneva 2019) and the Council of European Dentists (Aggarwal, Vinall-Collier); COVID-19
 work: Advised WHO and PHE (Douglas), Cabinet Office Roundtable: Vaccine Registry (Pavitt),
 as well as cardiovascular impacts which fed into SAGE (Wu).

 Emerging Impact
 Our research continues to have a sustained impact on patients, health services, wider society
 and the economy. In addition to our submitted ICS, other notable exemplars include:
 N&AH
   • Developed the ‘Foot Posture Index’, transforming measurement of foot posture, providing
      high clinical utility, incorporated into undergraduate curricula internationally, leading to
      adoption by clinicians worldwide (Redmond);
   • Dissemination from an implementation project ‘REMAIN’ is linked to ‘OK Diabetes’ being
      incorporated into both the ‘NHS RightCare Pathway for Diabetes’ in adults with a learning
      disability and the ‘Diabetes UK’ website as a training resource for commissioners and
      practitioners (House);
   • Enabling services to support patients to make informed treatment decisions through the
      development of open-access research-led decision aids (Bekker):
          o Treatment Decision Making and Relapsing Multiple Sclerosis
          o Cancer, Fertility and Me Patient Decision Aid.
 Dentistry
    • Improving oral health through shaping dental contract reform via incentive-driven
        commissioning and delivery of primary dental care [UOA3-2340, UOA3-2341]
        (INCENTIVE: NIHR-SDO award, £440k) (Pavitt, Douglas);
    • Development of dental 3D scanning technology led to a patent (PCT/GB2015051316)
        and two licensing deals: for improved commercial instrumentation to the general dental
        market (GC Europe) and archiving digital dental casts (Arkive Dental). A new spin-out
        company based in UoL Nexus Centre (Mimetrek Solutions, 2020) with £650k investment
        to develop our scanner (Keeling, Wood);
    • Genetic profiling for Amelogenesis Imperfecta led to a curated, open database
        (http://dna2.leeds.ac.uk/LOVD/) and direct impact on NHS patient care via the UK
        Genetic Testing Network: a first for clinical dentistry, defining patient pathways and
        raising standards of care (Mighell).

 Influencing Research Strategy and Environment
 We are involved in developing and influencing the UK and international research environment
 through membership of committees, editorial positions, funding panels and invited presentations
 (Table 2).

 Table 2: Summary of contributions of UoA3 staff
                 Honours/      Membership      Editorships/     Research         Keynote
                 Research      committees       Editorial     funding panels   presentations
                  prizes                         boards
  N&AH              19               52             26             40               203
  Dentistry         12               76             29              6               65
  Total UoA3        31              128             55             46               268



                                                                                          Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Examples of:
 Honours and fellowships
 Honours N&AH: Her Majesty’s Honours, Keenan OBE (services to podiatry), Nixon MBE
 (services to pressure ulcer research);
 NIHR Senior Investigators in N&AH: Nixon, Keenan, Redmond;
 Fellowships in N&AH: Fellowship of The College of Podiatric Medicine (Keenan); Queen’s Nurse
 Institute Fellow (McHugh); Alan Turing Fellow (Tennant).

 Research prizes/awards
 N&AH: Avedis Donabedian Outcomes Research Lifetime Achievement (Kind); Queen’s Nurse
 (Horne); Royal Pharmaceutical Society, Pharmacy Research UK (Alldred); Mental Health
 Research Network-Outstanding Service User (Baker); Droitwich Lecture, British Society for
 Rheumatology (Redmond); International Researcher Mobility Award (Boele).
 Dentistry: International Association of Dental Research (IADR) Senior Clinical Hatton prize
 (Hyde); Jens Andreasen Prize in Dental Trauma, International Association of Paediatric
 Dentistry (IAPD)(Kenny); IADR Joseph Lister Award (Do); Entrepreneurial Spark, NatWest
 (Feichtinger); John Zamet Memorial Prize in Periodontal Research (Serban); MS Society as
 Inspiration of the Year, NCCPE Engagement with Young People (Pavitt); Alan Wilson Memorial
 Prize, UK Society for Biomaterials (Wood).

 Membership committees/advisory boards
 N&AH: NIHR Academy Associate Dean-Infrastructure (Keenan); Chair, Versus Arthritis
 Fellowship Expert Group (McHugh); Chair, Wounds Research Network (Nixon); National
 Wound Strategy & European Pressure Ulcer Advisory Panel (Nixon, Coleman); NIHR Lead
 Training Advocate-Pharmacy (Alldred); Council of Deans Global Health Group (McGowan);
 Rheumatoid Arthritis NICE Guideline Committee (Siddle); Past Chair of EULAR standing
 committee for health professionals (Redmond); Honorary Secretary Society for Societal
 Medicine (Tennant); International Trustee, Society of Medical Decision Making, USA & The
 International Patient Decision Aid Collaboration Steering Group (Bekker); Mental Health Nursing
 Academics UK (Baker, Hughes); Chair, National Cancer Research Institute (Velikova); National
 Cancer Research Institute & Lead, European Network for TYA with Cancer (Stark); European
 Organisation of Neuro-Oncology Scientific/Gender issues & World Federation of Neuro-
 Oncology Societies (Boele); Chair, British Psychosocial Oncology Society (Absolom).
 Dentistry: Faculty of General Dental Practitioners Research Advisory Board (Aggarwal); British
 Society for Oral and Dental Research (BSODR)(Hyde, Wood); Chair of Mineralised Tissue
 Group, BSODR (Al-Jawad); National Oral Health Promotion Research Group (Csikar); NIHR
 Clinical Research Network (CRN) National Speciality Lead for Oral & Dental Health, EUPATI
 Advisory Network, NIHR CRN Strategy Group for Medical Informatics & Data Linkage, MS
 Society CRN Strategy Group, NIHR CTU Strategic Advisory Committee (Pavitt); Better Start
 Bradford, Innovation management group (Day); President, British Association for Study of
 Community Dentistry (Douglas); IAPD board member (Drummond); Chair of Enamel 9
 (Kirkham); Council of Microbiology Society (Devine); TERMIS EU (Feichtinger); Executive of
 Dental Council RCS Edinburgh (Nattress); Co-founder of Scanning Probe Microscopy Section
 of the Royal Microscopical Society (Thomson); BMA Multi-Specialty Working Group for Junior
 Doctors (Serban).

 Editorships/Editorial board members
 N&AH: European Journal of Cancer (Velikova); Advances in Dual Diagnosis (Hughes);
 Psychosomatic Obstetrics and Gynecology (McGowan); PLoS One (Spilsbury); Health & Social
 Care in the Community (McHugh); Tissue Viability (Nixon); Evidence-Based Nursing (Smith);
 Clinical Pharmacist (Alldred); International Journal of Mental Health Nursing (Baker); Arthritis
 Care and Research (Redmond); Psycho-oncology (Absolom).
 Dentistry: Frontiers in Bioengineering & Biotechnology (Al-Jawad), Nature Scientific Reports
 (Thomson, Do); Oral Microbiology (Devine); Oral Diseases (Do); Frontiers in Dental Medicine

                                                                                         Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (El-Gendy, Al-Jawad); European Cells and Materials (Feichtinger); Functional Biomaterials
 (Yang); European Journal of Prosthodontics and Restorative Dentistry (Keeling); Journal of
 Dental Science (Tahmassebi).

 Research funding panels
 UoA3 staff membership for UK, European/Overseas funding panels (Tables 3 & 4).

 Table 3: UK research funding panel membership
  Panels                                                N&AH
  NIHR
  COVID Recovery/Learning Research                      Thompson
  PGfAR                                                 House
  HTA                                                   House, Nixon
  HS&DR                                                 Spilsbury, Milnes, Thompson
  RfPB                                                  Harley, Baker, Bekker, House
  Senior Investigator                                   Nixon
  Advanced Fellowship                                   Baker, McGowan, House
  Doctoral Fellowship                                   McHugh
  HEE/NIHR
  PCAF                                                  Keenan
  CDRF                                                  Alldred
  Clinical Lectureships                                 Redmond, Hughes
  Wellcome Trust Populations                            House
  Versus Arthritis                                      Redmond
  Cancer Research UK                                    Tennant, Velikova
                                                        Dentistry
  NIHR In-Practice Fellowships                          Aggarwal
  MRC-NIHR EME                                          Pavitt
  BBSRC (member & core committee B member)              Devine
  UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship                        Thomson


 Table 4: European/Overseas research funding panel membership
  Panels                                                N&AH
  European Platform of Cancer Research                  Velikova
  French National Cancer Institute                      Stark
  Irish Health Board                                    McGowan, Thompson
  Irish Cancer Society                                  Absolom
  Cystic Fibrosis Ireland                               Milnes
  Applied Biomedical Research, Belgium Government       Redmond
  National Medical Research Council, Singapore          Horne
  Society for Epidemiological Research, USA             Tennant
                                                        Dentistry
  EU FP7 and Horizon 2020                               Yang
  National Natural Science Foundation of China          Yang




                                                                                       Page 24
