Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Exeter

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 28 History

 Section 1: Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Overview

 The UoA’s research is distinguished by its wide chronological, geographical and methodological
 range. It extends from the early Middle Ages to the recent past, from east to west across the
 whole of Eurasia, Africa, north and south America and Australia, and from robust traditional
 empirical methods traditionally used in the study of history to innovative developments in digital
 humanities. The UoA seeks to provide a stimulating and supportive research environment
 allowing all colleagues to flourish, supporting international collaboration at every career stage, and
 encouraging interdisciplinary research.

 Since 2014 key achievements include:

       increasing grant income from around £1 million per annum in the previous REF period
        to £2.7 million on average per annum 2015-2020 (£20k to £46k per FTE), representing
        success by colleagues at every career stage, and maximising opportunities for all
        colleagues.
       increasing the number of UoA researchers from 49.5FTE (REF 2014) to 60.05 FTE (62
        headcount), building disciplinary resilience.
       significantly diversifying the global reach of our research expertise and impact,
        extending out from Africa, Britain, Europe, North America, Russia and South Asia to
        include Latin America, East Asia and Australia, through new appointments and significant
        AHRC, ERC, and Leverhulme funding awards, leading to innovative research and impact
        to globalise the histories of the early modern Mediterranean and South Asian worlds,
        twentieth-century medicine, and modern Europe
       leadership in cross-HASS-STEMM interdisciplinary research and impact through the
        establishment of the interdisciplinary Wellcome Centre for Cultures and Environments
        of Health (WCCEH) in 2017, directed by a historian (Jackson), transforming the UoA’s
        long-established strength in medical history. This is complemented by interdisciplinary
        research in other fields, notably modern British history and environmental history.
       increasing the range and scale of our research, impact and teaching in heritage and
        public history through collaboration with local, national and international organisations
       introducing a strong Digital Humanities (DH) component to our research and
        engagement activities
       deepening our critical engagement with decolonisation and racial and gender equality,
        diversity and inclusion across all research, impact, and teaching.

 1.2 Unit context and structure

 Reorganised in 2014 into two separate departments, based on different campuses, the UoA
 comprises: 52.5 staff in the History Department at Exeter (hereinafter Exeter) and 9.5 staff in the
 Humanities Department at Penryn (hereinafter Penryn). Both departments collectively benefit from
 the presence of 54 honorary research fellows and professors, 16 research-only staff, 3
 postdoctoral fixed-term teaching-only staff, and 91 PhD students (55 FTE). The departments
 belong to the College of Humanities, which provides the same supportive cross-campus research
 leadership (see the Institutional Level Environment Statement (hereinafter ILES) 1.2-3). This
 strategic organisational change allows both departments to engage with their respective
 campuses’ other different disciplinary strengths, and strengthen their distinctive specialisms,
 Exeter’s in medieval, early modern socio-economic, maritime, modern British politics and policy,
 imperial, global and medical histories; Penryn’s in public history and the environment.


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The UoA’s research culture ensures a mutually supportive environment which enables all
 students and scholars to undertake individual, collaborative, multi-disciplinary and interdisciplinary
 research. Colleagues firmly believe in the beneficial relationship between research and teaching
 and work to include undergraduates, masters and doctoral students, and research staff in their
 research activities. E.g. from 2017-20 UoA researchers, with internal funding, involved 22
 undergraduate and masters students as paid interns on 17 research projects.

 Since 2014 the UoA’s research activity has expanded alongside a strong commitment to teaching.
 In Exeter this growth has been accompanied by curriculum changes to incorporate MA students
 into the departmental research culture via work placements at a range of heritage organisations,
 and greater involvement in research centres. At Penryn, the successful establishment in 2018 of
 the innovative interdisciplinary MA International Heritage Management and Consultancy draws
 primarily on the expertise of History staff, with support from English, Geography, and industry
 professionals.

 The UoA strongly supports multi-disciplinary and interdisciplinary research. In order to share
 expertise and ideas in research-based activities staff belong to one or more of 12 research
 centres/institute, 10 of which have members from several disciplines; UoA staff play major roles
 in all of them.

                                                                                Number of REF-
                                                                                eligible staff
                                                                                members
  Exeter-based
  Centre for Early Modern Studies (CEMS)                                        13
  Centre for Imperial and Global History (CIGH)                                 16
  Exeter Centre for Latin American Studies (EXCELAS)                            2
  Centre for Maritime Historical Studies (CMHS)                                 3
  Centre for Medical History (CMH)                                              9
  Centre for Medieval Studies (CMS)                                             9
  Centre for Violence Studies (CVS)                                             13
  Digital Humanities (DH)                                                       5
  Exeter South Asia Centre (ESAC)                                               3
  Wellcome Centre for Cultures and Environments of Health (WCCEH)               2
  Penryn-based
  Centre for Environmental Arts and Humanities (CEAH)                           6
  Institute of Cornish Studies                                                  1

 The CMHS is part of a wider interdisciplinary University research collaboration: Exeter Marine.
 The centres/institute consolidate links across the University and facilitate collaboration with
 outside organisations and the recruitment of postgraduate students. Researchers also work with
 colleagues in other Colleges through the University’s interdisciplinary International Institute for
 Cultural Enquiry (hereinafter IICE; see ILES 1.3) and the WCCEH (see ILES, 2.3); for further
 details on these collaborations see below and section 4.

 These permanent centres and institutes offer the primary framework for supporting individual and
 collective research for colleagues at every stage and on every type of contract (PGTs, PGRs,
 PDRAs, teaching-only, research and teaching). Participating in wider university structures, the
 departmental Directors of Research (DoR) provide overall leadership (ILES 4.2). Centres are
 represented on Exeter’s departmental Research Committee, chaired by the DoR, alongside the
 Director of Impact (DoI), who supports colleagues to develop impactful research.
 Centres/institutes regularly co-ordinate activities; for example, through joint workshops of CIGH
 and EXCELAS, joint seminars between CMS and CMHS. Centres regularly work with other
 research centres outside the department, such as the joint workshop on ‘Heteroglossia’ held by
 ESAC with the Centre for Translation Studies (Modern Languages) in 2017. Staff and students at
 both campuses often attend each other’s events remotely.


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Penryn-based centres benefit from strong links to local heritage organisations. The multi-
 disciplinary CEAH is at the centre of climate and environmental research on both campuses, and
 a major focus for grant applications and outreach activity e.g. Whyte convenes the Time and Tide
 Project, an interdisciplinary, cross-College collaboration, with colleagues from Camborne School
 of Mines (Penryn), Archaeology (Exeter) and Perranzabuloe Museum. The interdisciplinary
 InstCS, co-directed since 2019 by Tregidga with researchers in Politics, is central to public history
 activity in Cornwall through its events programme, Cornish Studies journal, and collaboration with
 local organisations e.g. symposia with Cornwall Council, Cornwall Chamber of Commerce,
 Cornwall Heritage Trust, and local businesses 2014-16.

 In order to support colleagues generate new research ideas and collaborations across the
 specialisms represented by the centres, Exeter holds regular research events to explore collective
 themes. Extending across different centres, the themes mobilise interested researchers around
 areas of mutual interest, breaking down existing chronological, methodological and geographical
 boundaries. These themes are reviewed regularly at research-away days, and updated to reflect
 colleagues’ changing interests, expertise and membership. The themes for 2020-21 are:

           Economic and social history. Serving as a model, members (including researchers on
            3-ERC funded projects) hold a fortnightly blog-led discussion online, involving research
            students, PDRAs and staff on both campuses.
           Emotions
           Modern Politics and Policy
           Gender

 The research centres provide the framework for our interdisciplinary research and impact
 environment, supporting the sharing of academic and impact expertise and contacts amongst
 researchers, guided by the DoRs and DoIs. Researchers across the UoA also have significant
 engagement with international, national and local bodies (detailed in section 4). WCCEH
 researchers focus explicitly on transforming public and policy engagement with their research.
 Expertise in heritage and public history crosses both campuses e.g. CEMS researcher French
 (Exeter) and CEAH researcher Onciul (Penryn) have each chaired the University’s
 multidisciplinary, cross-campus Heritage Strategy Group which co-ordinates partnerships with
 important external collaborators. Penryn’s particular strengths in this area are well evidenced by
 the MA programme mentioned above.

 Centres help mid-career colleagues access internal funding streams for developing and
 extending research activities nationally and internationally. They nurture researcher development
 and support the creation of international research networks, as evidenced by the UoA’s success
 in obtaining collaborative awards (see section 3). Examples include support for Chatterjee, Singh,
 Williams (ESAC) to organise two workshops on South Asian history with colleagues and
 postgraduates from the British Library, other British universities and Lahore University of
 Management Sciences, Quaid e Azam University, Islamabad, and the Centre for Studies in Social
 Sciences, Kolkata; for Hynd (CIGH) to conduct research in Geneva and Canada on modern
 humanitarianism; and for Cox-Jensen (CEMS) to work with KU Leuven on translations of
 Classical texts.

 1.3 Research integrity and Open Access

 Our commitment to upholding research integrity underlies all our research activities, following the
 University’s commitment to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity (ILES 2.9). Ultimate
 responsibility lies with the University’s Research integrity, governance and ethics team. Training
 is mandatory for PGRs and staff probation and promotion. To ensure all UoA research abides by
 ethical standards respecting the integrity and well-being of those involved, all research projects
 (including students’) involving human participants must be submitted for ethical review by the
 Humanities College Ethics Committee, on which both departments are represented by their
 respective Ethics Officers. Since 2014 College ethical protocols have been improved to
 encompass oral history, online and other ways of gathering and analysing testimony from living

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 participants. Members of staff with significant experience in oral history train both staff and
 students in ethical standards. Researchers at all levels are referred to the appropriate University,
 national and international codes, and professional codes of conduct. Beyond the University, Mark
 contributed to the Oral History Society’s Code in the previous REF period, and served as oral
 history advisor to two AHRC projects in this; Fisher is developing ways of using oral history in
 public engagement through training young trans people in oral history techniques with professional
 ethics training (Impact Case Study (ICS) Transformations).

 Colleagues are committed to the widest distribution of our research through Open Access
 (OA) channels and to the promotion of OA within the wider academy. Open Research Exeter
 (ORE) provides access to colleagues’ research, with over 128,955 downloads 2014-20. The
 majority (45%) were from the UK, but 21% from USA, 4% China, 2% India, testifying to our
 research’s global reach. ORE makes publicly available non-sensitive research data, retaining it
 indefinitely in accordance with the University’s and JISC protocols (for example, Chatterjee’s
 ‘Privy Council Papers’ database). Colleagues also upload research to standard external OA
 repositories including Academia and Research Gate. Since 2014 some 29 works have been
 published with Gold OA costing £55,289; in 2019 only 40% of such publications were supported
 by external grants. Exeter’s DH Lab promotes OA by developing digital platforms for historical
 documents and datasets (see section 3.4 for examples).

 As officers Toye (co-literary director) and Hamilton (Hon. Treasurer, 2015-19) participated in the
 Royal Historical Society (RHS)’s contributions to UKRI OA policy-making. As co-editor, Vargha
 helped shape the Social History of Medicine’s response to the Wellcome Trust’s OA mandate.
 Other contributions to OA scholarship include Sangha as editorial board member of the Paper
 Trails Books as Open Online Content (UCL Press) series and Anderson as co-PI for the Harvard-
 National Endowment for the Humanities-funded online database, liberatedafricans.org.

 1.4 Research and impact strategy 2014-2020

 The UoA’s research and impact strategy had five aims in this REF period; these have all been
 achieved or exceeded.

       To maintain or increase our research income from outside bodies. Mean research
        income from external funders has increased by 173% from previous REF period to £2,735k
        per annum (2015/16-2019/20), enhancing our ability to do new research, allowing us to
        sustain recruitment from 52.7 FTE PGRSs in 2013/14 to 55 PGRs in 2018/19, and creating
        opportunities for all researchers to take regular study leave.
       To continue increased internationalisation of our research. We have strengthened our
        international links with academics in other countries, through some 24 funded collaborative
        research projects, participation in international research networks and recruitment of some
        21 international PGRs (see sections 2, 3 and 4).
       To continue to develop and strengthen collaborations with non-academic bodies.
        We have developed and strengthened our collaborations with non-academic bodies
        through research projects and placements for MAs and PhD students (see section 2);
        deepened existing collaborations, including those with the Historical Association, Brooks
        Advisory Trust, South West Heritage Trust, and World Health Organisation; and formed
        new relationships with leading non-HEI partners including the International Red Cross. The
        ICSs represent merely our strongest examples.
       To raise the public profile of history through work with schools, the media and policy
        bodies. Members have worked with heritage organisations, schoolteachers and schools,
        the wider community, the media, government and other public bodies and NGOs to
        publicise their research and ensure the viability of publicly funded historical research in the
        longer term (see ICS WW1 Centenary and section 4).
       To continue to develop undergraduate teaching in ways that stimulate students’
        interest in the latest research and the development of staff-research goals. The UoA
        remains committed to involving undergraduates in on-going research, through internships,
        teaching and voluntary activities such as the Hypatia project: 50+ taught students have

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        contributed entries for over 1200 items to this website showcasing the University’s Special
        Collections of books and journals by or about women.

 1.5 Future Research and Impact Strategy

 To ensure all staff continue to contribute to, and enrich, the UoA’s vibrant research culture, the
 following objectives have been collectively agreed:

       Enhancing our research sustainability. Building upon our research achievements in
        2014-20, we will seek to develop our existing areas of specialisation including imperial and
        global history, medical history and public history whilst maintaining the geographic breadth,
        depth and methodological diversity of our research. We will extend our involvement in, and
        leadership of, interdisciplinary research, developing the cross-STEMM/HASS research
        of WCCEH and CEAH into other areas by participating in the University’s cross-College
        Research Institutes, especially the Environmental Sustainability Institute, the Institute for
        Data Sciences and Artificial Intelligence and IICE (see ILES 1.3).
       Enhancing the international reach of our research. Supporting researchers to
        strengthen existing research links and develop new ones with academics outside, as well
        as inside, the UK, and in History and other disciplines, to develop disciplinary leadership
        by working collaboratively, participating in networks, and cultivating student placements
        and recruitment, and staff exchanges.
       Developing further our culture of research impact and engagement by strengthening
        and diversifying our collaborations with non-academic bodies and commercial
        organisations, public bodies, policy makers, NGOs and other third-sector organisations,
        via PhD placements, Collaborative Doctoral Award-funded PhDs, joint research projects
        and enhanced knowledge exchange.
       Supporting academic careers through ensuring an equitable, diverse and inclusive
        (EDI) research environment in line with the Researcher Development Concordat (ILES
        3.8) by ensuring all members of our research community take into account their ethical
        responsibilities regarding equality, diversity and inclusivity in disability, ethnicity, gender,
        race and sexuality, and the environment when undertaking individual and collective
        research, teaching, and contributing to the research community. We will do this by building
        on the EDI work begun in 2014-20. Exeter will expand its EDI commitments to focus upon
        the needs of BAME and international researchers, as well as implementing the Athena
        Swan recommendations (see section 2.3).
       Re-centring our approach to history away from largely western and European
        paradigms by building on the diversification of our global expertise and formalising the
        ‘feedback’ loop between innovative teaching practices and new research at all levels,
        capitalising on our specialism in global history.

 Covid-19 has highlighted the resilience of the UoA’s research culture. Despite being prevented
 from travelling to libraries, archives and physical conferences, and taking up placements, UoA
 researchers’ activities have continued since March 2020, taking advantage of the opportunities
 offered by the shift to virtual communities. CEMS, CIGH, CMS and WCCEH have organised virtual
 reading groups (some led by PGRs) and master classes to support PhDs and PDRAs. These
 developments, alongside the support provided by the DH Lab (see section 3.4), will stand the UoA
 in good stead, given likely changes in the future conduct of research and our environmental
 commitments. ESAC organised a successful virtual international PGR workshop (see 1.2 above).
 Hamilton’s on-line RHS public lecture (May 2020) received more than 1200 views. Staff across
 the UoA have addressed a wide range of other virtual audiences nationally and internationally.

 Covid-19 has prompted new research in contemporary British and medical history. In July 2020
 Lawrence contributed to an ESRC ‘Northern Exposure’ interdisciplinary network webinar on
 Pandemic Politics in Northern England. Vargha contributed to major virtual international academic
 events on the pandemic; a member of the World Health Organization (WHO)’s Western Pacific
 Regional Office Historical Epidemics Think Tank, she is shaping policymaking to improve future
 global public health strategies. Fisher’s work is at the cutting edge of co-creating resources with

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 young people during the pandemic to amplify LGBTI+ voices (ICS Transformations). Jackson co-
 wrote a WHO paper on ways of transitioning to the ‘new normal’ post-Covid.

 In 2014 we were a large, dynamic UoA with the ambition to build on existing successes in
 expanding the intellectual, economic, geographical and cultural horizons of our research. In
 achieving these goals over the subsequent seven years we have created a UoA with structures
 and resources that will enable us to fulfil our greater ambitions regarding research sustainability,
 interdisciplinarity, internationalisation, public engagement, and equality, diversity and inclusivity.

 Section 2: People

 Developed within the framework of the Researcher Development Concordat and the University’s
 policies (see ILES 3), our UoA’s main intention since 2014 has been to develop an increasingly
 diverse, supportive and inclusive environment in which all our researchers will flourish, regardless
 of background.

 Having expanded significantly from 49.5 staff FTE in 2014, the UoA currently comprises a more
 diverse body of 60.5 staff FTE. Over this period our PGR body has also become more ethnically
 diverse, and there have been improvements to the gender balance among staff members. Figure
 1 demonstrates the UoA’s progress in driving diversity.




 2.1 Staffing Strategy

 Since 2014 we have sought to improve the diversity of our research staff. We appointed a
 significant number of colleagues at an early stage in their career across the 2010s (33 appointed
 since 2012), subsequently supporting them to develop their careers to become research leaders.

 Exeter’s recruitment strategy since 2014 has been to increase the global spread of our research
 expertise and deepen our engagement with the challenges of decolonisation, race, ethnicity,
 equality and diversity; to strengthen research in public history and heritage; to deepen and develop
 Digital and Medical Humanities approaches to participatory, engaged research; and to reinforce
 and develop our existing research strengths. Anderson, De Waal and Vandrei have reinforced
 Penryn Humanities’ established research strengths in public history, while internationalising it
 through European, West African and Trans-Atlantic History.



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We made 21 appointments since 2014, including 16 researchers to their first permanent
 lectureship (Anderson, Antic, GClark, Davey, de Waal, Espelt Bombín, Gao, Xiangwei Guo,
 Hanley, Lippiatt, Matthieu, Rupprecht, Spaskovska, Vandrei, Vargha, Ward); 3 researchers
 to senior lectureships (Finn and Knight Lozano to lead the Liberal Arts programme, and Paul to
 enhance existing strengths in early modern economic and social history); and 1 to an associate
 professorship, now professor (Lawrence).

 5 staff have retired (Booth; Melling; Overton; Morriss; Black; Overy). 9 staff moved to other
 academic posts: 3 professors – Barton (Central Florida); Thompson (Oxford); Thorpe (Leeds);
 5 lecturers – (Jones, Oxford), Barker (Leeds), Fletcher (Warwick), Ma (Sheffield), Rupprecht
 (Berlin); and 1 senior lecturer – (Paul, UCLA);1 left for personal reasons.

 We attracted five competitively funded postdoctoral fellows (PDFs) since 2014, further
 enhancing our research community. Leikin (eighteenth-century Russian maritime history) and Lin
 (twentieth-century Russian-Chinese history) chose to hold their British Academy postdoctoral
 fellowships (PDFs) in Exeter, testifying to our reputation in globalising European history. We also
 recruited and supported PDFs into permanent positions including modernists Fairfax-Cholmeley
 and Hanley (British Academy PDFs) and medievalist Lippiatt (Leverhulme ECF).

 The UoA’s leadership is working hard to support all current staff to develop their research careers
 at Exeter, mindful of our equality, diversity and inclusivity commitments. Our future strategy is to
 maintain the current reach of our research, whilst developing its interdisciplinary aspects.

 2.2 Staff development and promotions

 The policies arising from the University’s being a signatory of the Concordat for Researcher
 Development and DORA (see ILES 2.9, 3.3), and its work with Stonewall and participation in the
 annual Workplace Equality Index, as well as its responsibilities to support disabilities, provide the
 framework for History’s formal and informal support of staff development.

 We use the University’s workload model (ILES 3.4) to support colleagues at all career stages.
 New recruits at every stage are helped to establish their research at Exeter through reductions in
 education and administrative workloads, in accordance with College-wide norms. All researchers
 are also allocated 20% of their workload for research and impact activities.

 Central to History’s formal support is the Academic Lead (AL) system (see ILES 3.6). Chosen
 from senior staff, ALs are responsible for mentoring 7-10 researchers and conducting their
 Performance Development Review; Athena Swan (see 2.3 below) instituted formal feedback
 systems on their effectiveness. ALs help identify when colleagues are ready for promotion, advise
 on training needs, building a promotion case, on sources of internal research funding and support,
 and on preparing external research applications. ALs monitor and support staff well-being,
 guiding them towards the University’s extensive support which can also be accessed
 independently; with the HoD they advise those with particular needs on how to access University
 support and resources as needed (ILES 3.15-17). The ALs together with the Head of Department
 (HoD) and Directors of Research (DoR) and Education (DoE) constitute the Department Strategy
 Group (DSG), which has responsibility for overseeing the allocation of administrative roles,
 teaching and research using the University’s workload model (ILES 3.4), and also developing
 departmental strategy and policies; following staff feedback, Exeter’s Group now includes two
 elected staff members to ensure representation of all career stages. Research centres provide
 peer-to-peer informal support through detailed discussions of new research ideas involving staff
 at every career stage.

 All permanent research staff are entitled to research leave. Most staff members can expect to
 have a period of six-months research leave at least once every three and a half years. 61 periods
 of research leave have been awarded (27M, 34F) to 51 different members of staff since 2014,
 including 19 staff for whom it was their first period of leave since being appointed to a permanent

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 post and 3 staff on part-time contracts. As many staff have research leave funded by external
 grants, those with strong research plans who apply for university-funded leave are supported. To
 ensure equality and diversity Human Resources professional staff join the College panels which
 allocate research leave.

 All researchers received a research allowance of £1000 per annum (2014-20) to support
 conference attendance, research visits, and fund external scholars to come to Exeter to develop
 research collaborations for those who are prevented from travelling by caring responsibilities.

 Other internal forms of research support are advertised to all staff, with criteria-driven
 application processes. Drawing on that offered through the University’s Global Engagement
 service (ILES 4.11), for example, more than 15 colleagues have been able to develop their
 research profile by building their academic networks and research collaborations with international
 scholars informally with 15 European, 7 South Asian, 6 Chinese, 1 Australian and several North
 American universities; their success is evidenced in section 4.2. Working with the University’s
 Innovation, Impact and Business services, the DoI has helped more than 13 colleagues develop
 links and establish formal agreements with non-academic organisations to support engaged
 research, as evidenced in section 4.3.

 Promotion is open to all staff through the University’s criteria-based career progression model
 (ILES 3.3); the conduct of regular reviews ensures all eligible staff are identified and encouraged
 to apply. The success of History’s commitment to equality and diversity is evidenced by the large
 number of promotions since 2014, particularly for women and BAME colleagues.

           21.3 FTE lecturers promoted to senior lecturer (14.3 female, 7 male), including two
            BAME colleagues.
           8 senior lecturers promoted to associate professor (AP) (5 female, 3 male), including
            one BAME colleague.
           3 associate professors promoted to professor: 2 female, 1 male.

 As a consequence, History has undergone a transformation in the proportion of all staff who
 are female at more senior levels as follows:

  Grade                            2012/13                          2019/20
  Lecturers                        61%                              41%
  Senior Lecturers/Associate       33%                              48%
  Professors
  Professors                       20%                              38%

 We tailor our support to colleagues at different career stages:

 Early career researchers. The high number of early career researchers in this period has made
 the needs of this group particularly pressing (ILES 3.8-9). New permanent appointees are enrolled
 on the ‘Academic Professional’ programme which provides training and networking opportunities
 and assigns a series of targets through probation (ILES 3.5). In addition to the workload and
 research leave policies outlined above, we have a two-stage internal review system to help
 colleagues write research applications. ALs and the DoR advise on preparing the applications; the
 DoR allocates a senior colleague close to their research interests to mentor their application. All
 draft applications are then peer reviewed within the department, and reviewers and the DoR work
 with colleagues to improve the draft. Colleagues at all stages are encouraged to circulate
 publications in early draft for comment by fellow researchers. The success of our support is
 evidenced by the 21.2 FTE colleagues promoted from lecturer to senior lecturer in this REF period,
 and by the 16 colleagues successful in external grant competitions, including Bridger (now Senior
 Lecturer), appointed 2017, awarded a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship 2019. Our support for
 PDRAs is exemplified by the after-careers of 3 PDRAs on Mark’s 1989 after 1989 project:


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Richardson-Little and Grosescu are both leading major €1M independent projects funded by
 the Volkswagen Stiftung and ERC; Spaskovska has a permanent lectureship at Exeter.

 We advise colleagues in more precarious positions on how to develop their research profile and
 career. As a consequence of peer advice on publications, one colleague, employed on successive
 fixed-term teaching-only contracts, developed their research profile and was appointed to a
 permanent E&R post. Research staff who are in post for more than one-year have an Academic
 Lead; those on shorter term contracts are advised by the project leader.

 Mid-career researchers. This group faces considerable challenges, balancing increasing
 administrative and teaching responsibilities with research. Mindful of this, DSGs work with ALs to
 identify appropriate offices as a pathway to leading roles: these include convening core
 undergraduate modules with a large number of teaching assistants, Senior Tutor, Directors of
 Postgraduate Research and Impact. We support staff in external development opportunities,
 sponsoring 4 UoA members on the women’s leadership development programme, Aurora. This
 group has particularly benefited from the internal funding opportunities to support international
 collaboration outlined above. Colleagues have thus been supported to develop more complex
 research projects: for example, Vargha, promoted 2019, awarded both a Wellcome Collaborative
 Research Award and an ERC Starting grant 2020 for a new global history of medicine
 incorporating socialist medicine.

 Senior researchers are encouraged to engage with opportunities appropriate to their career-
 stage and research specialisms. The HoD mentors colleagues serving as ALs. Those serving in
 significant leadership positions (HoD, DoE, DoR) are generally supported with research leave at
 their end of office; this policy was extended to the co-chairs of the Athena SWAN application
 process. Colleagues are supported to apply for senior fellowships (e.g. Thomas’s Leverhulme
 Trust Major Research Fellowship on Globalising Decolonisation), major grants, and to accept
 visiting fellowships (e.g Mark’s Fellowship at the Institute of Advanced Studies, Netherlands), and
 to contribute to the leadership of the discipline nationally and internationally (see sections 3.1,
 4.4).


 2.3 Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI)

 Since 2014 the UoA has worked hard to improve equality, diversity and inclusivity with regards to
 gender, race, ethnicity, sexuality and disability (ILES 3.14-16). The UoA REF Output Selection
 Panel membership was explicitly chosen with EDI criteria in mind to ensure representation by
 gender, ethnicity, early career staff, part-time staff, and all the major research groups, as well as
 REF-panel experience: the membership, including the College EDI Officer, is 9F, 7M. All members
 undertook unconscious bias training and worked to ensure the UoA’s return is representative of
 the career stage, gender, ethnicity, employment status and research interests of all colleagues.

 The UoA provides EDI leadership at College level. The College EDI officer is currently a historian
 (Sangha), chairing the College’s Inclusion Group (whose members include both Departments’ EDI
 Officers). This group oversees EDI policies and their implementation to ensure staff are managed
 consistently across Departments and the robustness of processes for reporting and addressing
 bullying, harassment, and discrimination.

 At departmental level, Exeter History submitted its Athena SWAN Bronze Award application in
 November 2020, which took into account the RHS’s reports on Gender Equality and Historians
 (2015, 2018) and Race, Ethnicity and Equality (2018). This application’s data informed this
 statement, and the application process itself has driven changes to improve not just gender but
 structures to ensure equality and inclusivity more broadly across the department. In 2020-21 it will
 take into account the RHS’s report LGBT+ Histories and Historians (2020). The application
 process resulted in the setting up of an EDI sub-committee with 12 members, represented on DSG
 by the co-chair, Whittle (Prof). The application identified some 48 actions to improve staff

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 experience, especially for early career staff and those with caring responsibilities; many have
 consequences for all staff, regardless of gender, and are already being implemented e.g. there is
 now teaching relief for all staff returning from parental leave.

 The University enables via its HR policies flexible and part-time working to support work-life
 balance and returning to work after a career break both on a temporary and permanent basis. In
 2019/20 4 UoA members were part-time (2 female, 2 male). Across the REF period 11 female
 and 7 male colleagues took parental leave.

 2.4 Research Students

 2.4.1 Recruitment and Funding. Postgraduate students constitute a vital component of our
 research community on both campuses. Since REF 2014 the UoA has successfully graduated
 87.9 FTE PhD students. Numbers of FTE PhD students remained stable across the REF period
 (52.7 in 2014/15, 55 in 2018/19), reflecting our commitment to maintaining quality in PGR
 supervision. In the next REF cycle we are confident that there is further potential for sustainable
 growth in this area. The data masks some significant innovations in the makeup of the current
 cohort. Exeter has particular strengths in offering part-time and distance-learning options to PhD
 students, and has a growing number of funded doctoral researchers engaged in Collaborative
 Doctoral Award (CDA) projects, working with an external partner. We have an increasing number
 of international students, and a healthy diversity of UKRI and charity funding streams.

 Part-time students constituted 38% of MPhil/PhD registrations in 2019/20. The gender profile of
 PhD students also varies more markedly between part-time and full-time: in 2017-8 part-time
 students were 50% female, 50% male whilst full time were 40% female, 60% male.

 As a member of AHRC South Wales and West (SWW) DTP1 and 2 and ESRC South West DTP,
 our successful recruitment of PhD students has taken place amidst increasing competition for
 funding since 2014. AHRC SWW DTP -- a consortium of 8 institutions – offered 270 studentships
 2014-18; AHRC SWW DTP2 includes 10 institutions with 200 studentships 2019-24. Through
 these DTPs and other funders, we are proactive in seeking funding for PhD students and building
 collaborative supervisory teams. In 2019/20, 10.5% students received AHRC DTP funding, 2.6%
 ESRC (equivalent to 2 FTE), 22% had University-funded and externally-funded scholarships
 including Wellcome Trust Awards. The quality of our CDA researchers is reflected in the diversity
 of awards and partnerships, specifically with the British Telecom Archives, the National Trust, the
 RAF Museum and Tewkesbury Abbey. Others are funded via grants from the ERC, HERA, and
 Leverhulme Trust. We have attracted funded overseas students, including a Chinese Scholarship
 Council PhD studentship and one Commonwealth Scholarship. Other students have been funded
 by split-site studentships including 2 with QUEX, 1 with Hong Kong University, and dual PhDs with
 Genoa and VU Brussels.

 The University’s Doctoral College oversees recruitment (on specialist advice from UoA
 colleagues), progression and examination (ILES 3.11-12). The departmental Directors of PGR
 (DPGR) run annual induction events on both campuses. All students are supervised by a doctoral
 team of two supervisors and, in 16 cases in 2019/20, this is demonstrably interdisciplinary, with
 History staff collaborating with colleagues in Anthropology, Archaeology, AHVC, Classics, English,
 Geography, Islamic Studies, Law, Politics, Sociology, and Theology as well as across campuses.

 2.4.2 Our PhD students contribute enormously to the intellectual vibrancy of our research culture.
 We are committed to ensuring they are welcomed and integrated into all aspects of the UoA’s
 research culture, and to anticipating and responding to their needs. This responsiveness is
 demonstrated by the reading group/workshop programmes run by CEMS, CMS, CIGH and ESAC
 during lockdown April-July 2020 (section 1.5). Upon starting, PhD (and MA) students are anchored
 in the relevant research centres. Postgraduates contribute significantly to research centre activity
 by organising and participating in reading groups, workshops, conferences, and blogs.



                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Postgraduates run their own on-line journal, Ex-Historia, which features peer-reviewed articles
 from postgraduates within and outside the University.

 PhD students are expected to present at least one research-based paper in the University during
 their studies. Their research is nurtured by, and greatly stimulates our research centres and
 seminar series which regularly include PhD research (e.g., CIGH hold termly PhD seminars and
 CMS holds an annual postgraduate seminar). As they progress PhDs also benefit significantly
 from interactions with scholars in their fields in universities with which Exeter and Penryn have
 strong connections. For example, CEMS runs an annual conference with Cardiff and Bristol
 Universities, and CMH one with Bristol. The College of Humanities’ annual interdisciplinary
 postgraduate conference offers them further opportunities. All PhD students receive £200 per
 annum FTE (£100 if part-time), to attend conferences or travel to libraries and archives.

 2.4.3 Academic Support. Progress is monitored annually by the departments and College via
 report forms from students and supervisors; where problems are identified supervisors work with
 the student, Doctoral College and other University services (including Health and Wellbeing
 Support Services) to support them. Pastoral tutors advise on welfare issues, with the support of
 a dedicated PGR Humanities wellbeing officer. All supervisions and training are prompted and
 recorded electronically via the ‘MyPGR’ system, following the University’s Code of Practice which
 sets out the expectations of staff and students for PGR supervision; missed meetings are flagged
 to prevent serious problems emerging (ILES 3.11-3.13). Upgrade vivas are conducted within 12-
 18 months of registration by 2 academics from outside the supervisory team; to ensure
 consistency one academic is normally the History PGR Upgrade Co-ordinator, the other a
 research specialist.

 Supervisors identify individual training needs in conversation with PhD students at the start of
 each academic year, advising on the Doctoral College’s extensive programme of mandatory and
 optional student training (see ILES 3.12). AHRC- and ESRC DTP-funded students have access
 to further specialist training through these consortia. Supervisors work with the DPGR to ensure
 that PhD students’ research needs are also met on a bespoke basis: provision made in recent
 years includes training in ancient and modern languages, GiS, medieval and early modern
 palaeography, quantitative techniques, oral history, engaged research and digital humanities.

 In response to student feedback asking for careers advice, Exeter History’s DPGR (Hynd)
 developed an annual history-specific series of career development workshops in 2014 to
 support our PhD students’ research and diverse careers. The success of this programme (see
 student destinations below) resulted in it being expanded across Humanities and Social Sciences
 2017-19. Exeter History also offers specialist support co-delivered with academics elsewhere. E.g.
 In addition to that provided by ESAC (see section 1.2), Hynd and Thompson were co-leads of
 the Global Humanitarianism Research Academy (2015-19) between the University of Mainz, the
 University of Exeter and the International Committee of the Red Cross in Geneva, providing
 training and career guidance on histories of humanitarianism to 12 PGR and ECR research fellows
 annually.

 2.4.4 We support our research students with training and career development in teaching. From
 their second year onwards, all our postgraduates are offered postgraduate teaching assistant
 (PTA) opportunities on undergraduate programmes. Before taking up this role they are required
 to shadow current PTAs, and to undertake the University’s mandatory Learning and Teaching in
 Higher Education programme. They can also complete an optional assessment resulting in an
 Associate Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy which supports those who proceed to
 academic careers.

 The UoA also supports research students with bespoke training in impact and knowledge
 exchange through high-profile internships and placements. Since 2014 these include ones with
 the International Labour Organization, BBC, Library of Congress and Houses of Parliament.



                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Several have led to successful postdoctoral careers: one PhD student’s placement with BBC 4
 programme development in Bristol led to a career with a US advertising company.

 A testament to the success of our various programmes is that twelve of our PhD students
 graduating since 2014 have gone on to academic posts in the UK and abroad: Bridger (2016),
 African history, and Spaskovska (2014), modern European history, both appointed to Exeter;
 Charnock (2016), modern British history, University of Bristol; Freeman (2015), Digital
 Humanities, University of Bristol; Heaslip (2019), maritime history, University of Portsmouth;
 Jones (2016), medical history, University of Bristol; Humbert (2014), modern French history,
 University of Manchester; Ouahes (2017), modern European, Marbella International University;
 Patterson (2016), modern history, Carleton College, Minnesota, USA; Lavoie (2016),
 philosophical history, Middlesex Community College, Boston, USA; Coker (2015), Russian
 history, Brewton-Parker College, Georgia, USA; Yildzeli (2017), British history, University of
 Bilecik Aseyh, Edebali, Turkey.

 Others are successfully pursuing postdoctoral researcher careers: 2 medievalists have been
 awarded Leverhulme Study Abroad Studentships to spend 2 years in Madrid and Vienna
 respectively (Witcombe 2019, Chadwick 2018); 2 medical historians have been appointed
 PDRAs in the WCCEH (Cooper 2018) and Strathclyde (Nias, 2018), and 1 is PDF at Edinburgh
 (Kanazawa 2019); 2 early modern socio-economic historians hold PDFs in Cambridge, one a BA
 PDF (Rhodes 2019, Mansell 2017); 1 modern Europeanist a fellowship in Jena (Calori 2019); 1
 Africanist (Alanamu, 2015) a Leverhulme ECF at Kent; and 1 global imperial historian is a PDRA
 at Glasgow (Chin, 2017). Others have been appointed to teaching-only University posts:
 Hernandez (2015), American history, at Exeter History; Peplow (2015), British History, at
 Warwick.

 Some PGRs are pursuing successful careers in the heritage sector e.g. British modernist
 Mackley (2016) is now an archivist for the Bodleian Library. Others have gone on to successful
 careers in NGOs: Wilson, medieval history (2012), served as CEO of the Brilliant Club (2012-
 2019), a leading UK university access charity; Feiner, medical history (2018), works for the British
 Heart Foundation.

 2.4.5 All supervisors and pastoral tutors are required to undertake mandatory formal training (ILES
 3.12). In addition, our system of assigning two supervisors ensures early career colleagues
 acquire significant supervision experience ahead of assuming the role of lead supervisor. The
 demands on staff in all three roles are recognised in the departmental workload model. The DPGR
 is supported by a specialist administrative team in the Doctoral College.

 Our community of research staff and students flourishes even more now than it did in 2014
 because of its increased diversity, its enhanced career and professional development
 opportunities, and strengthened connections within and beyond the University and HEI sector.
 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Since 2014 there has been a transformational change in History’s research income across all
 research areas, and substantial investment in research resources and facilities benefiting all
 colleagues.

 3.1 Drawing on the University professional support (ILES 4.6-4.13) History has increased its
 research income substantially. Forty colleagues, from all career stages, have been awarded 117
 grants, generating total grant income of £16.46M since 2013/14; annual mean income per FTE
 (2015/16 to 2019/20) has risen 130% to £46k. This growth allows us to improve the quality and
 reach of our research, through support for our PhD and postdoctoral community, and our impact
 and knowledge exchange work. This success has been achieved by colleagues at all career
 stages: 20 who won grants were female (5 professors, 13 senior lecturers/APs, 2 lecturers), 20




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 were male (10 professors, 10 senior lectures/APs), and 1 BAME (3 awards). 50% of total grant
 income was won by women, including 100% of ERC income (£ 3.4M).

 Major funded research projects led by colleagues at Exeter are to be found across the different
 research centres within the UoA. They include:

 CMS: Hamilton (F), After Empire (HERA: 2016-2019, €1.1M, Exeter £107k); in partnership with
 Universitat Autònama de Barcelona, Austrian Academy of Sciences, Freie Universität Berlin, St
 Andrews, and the Historical Association; 1 PhD student); publications supported include ‘Medieval
 Curses’.

 CEMS: Whittle (F), Women’s Work in Rural England, 1500-1700 (Leverhulme Trust: 2015-18,
 £231k), 1 PDRA, 1 PhD, resulting in ‘The gender division of labour’ article; Forms of Labour (ERC:
 2019-24, £1.24M), 3 PDRAs, 1 PhD.

 CMHS: Fusaro (F), Average Transaction Costs and Risk Management during the First
 Globalization (ERC consolidator grant: 2017-2022, £1.3M), 2 PDRAs, 4 PhD students.

 ESAC: Chatterjee (F), Forms of Law in the Early Modern Persianate World (ERC starter grant,
 2016-21, £857k), 2 PDRAs, resulting in her book Negotiating Mughal Law.

 CMH and WCCEH: Barry (M), Medical practice in Early Modern England, Wales and Ireland, c.
 1500-1715 (Wellcome Trust 2012-18, £907k), 6 PDRAs; Jackson (M), Lifestyle, Health and
 Disease (Wellcome Trust, £1.067M), 2 PDRAs, 2 PhDs, informing ICS Embedding; Fisher (F),
 Rethinking Sexology (Wellcome Trust, 2017-21 £421k) 3 PDRAs, 1 PhD student, informing ICS
 Transformations. The WCCEH (£4M 2017-21, £1.43M follow-on 2022-4) supports 2 History
 PDRAs.

 CIGH: Lawrence (M), CI in collaboration with the Alan Turing Institute, Living with Machines (UKRI
 Strategic Priorities Fund/ AHRC, 2019-23 £9.2M in total, Exeter £249k). Mark (M), Socialism Goes
 Global (AHRC, 2014-18, £437k) 3 PDRAs, in partnership with colleagues from UCL, Oxford,
 Leipzig, Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Columbia, and Belgrade, and 1989 after 1989
 (Leverhulme Trust, 2014-19, £972k) 5 PDRAs, 1 PhD, resulting in 1989: A Global History of
 Eastern Europe (Cambridge, 2019). Thompson (M), AHRC Theme Leader Fellow for Care for
 the Futures: Afterlives of Empire (AHRC, £842k). Toye (M) and Thackeray (M), The Age of
 Promises (Leverhulme Trust, 2017-20, £151k) – 2 PhDs

 CVS: Curless (M) and Thomas (M): Understanding Insurgencies (Leverhulme Trust, £117k), a
 research network including scholars from Exeter, Coimbra, Glasgow, the Royal Netherland
 Institute of South East Asian and Caribbean Studies, Leiden, Montreal, Oxford, Rouen, Versailles,
 and Warwick.

 Penryn: Pennell (F): Teaching and Learning War: Education and Modern Conflict in an
 International Comparative Perspective (AHRC, £45k), a research network involving Victoria
 University of Wellington (New Zealand), Universities of Northumbria (UK), and Newcastle
 (Australia), KCL, UCL, IWM, IoE, Australian War Memorial, Canadian War Museum, and Museum
 of New Zealand/Te Papa Tongawera, which informs ICS First World War. Pennell is also CI on
 the ‘Education, Justice and Memory Network’ (AHRC (GCRF)), a £2M project in partnership with
 the Universities of Bristol and Cardiff, Universidad Nacional de Colombia, Royal University of Law
 and Economics, Cambodia, Lahore University of Management Science, Pakistan; and civil society
 partners in Cambodia, Colombia, Pakistan and Uganda. Allerfeldt (M), ‘Negating Humanity’:
 Modern Slavery in its Historical Context and its Implications for Policy, AHRC, £71k, a
 collaboration with the Gangmasters Licensing Authority, working with Devon and Cornwall
 Constabulary, academics from the US, South Africa and the UK.



                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Since REF2014 the UoA’s strategy has been to diversify income sources, resulting in grants from
 more than 18 organisations including AHRC (£4M), ERC (£3.4M), Wellcome Trust (£2.3M),
 Leverhulme Trust (£997k), ESRC (£292k). Other funders include the Academy of Medical
 Sciences, the British Academy, Heritage Lottery Fund, Independent Social Research Foundation,
 and MRC. Individual research has been supported by AHRC Leadership fellowships (Thackeray,
 Roach), Leverhulme Fellowships (Thomas), Wellcome Fellowship (Withey), and British Academy
 Awards (Antic, Birkett, Chatterjee, GClark, Cox Jensen, Fairfax-Cholmeley, Fusaro, Rendle,
 Rider, Rowe, Thackeray). Early career colleagues have enjoyed noticeable successes including:
 Curless (M, appointed 2013), awarded an ESRC Future Leaders Fellowship 2013-16; Bridger
 (F, appointed 2017), awarded a UKRI FLF in 2019; Antic (F, appointed 2016) awarded an ERC-
 starter grant in 2019.

 3.2 The University’s libraries on the Streatham and Penryn campuses remain central to our
 scholarly infrastructure. The UoA’s research also benefits from archives held in Special
 Collections and the University’s Bill Douglas Cinema Museum. InstCS and CAEH researchers
 benefit from over 40 collections connected to the region’s mining, linguistic and political heritage.

 Since REF2014 there has been considerable investment in digital library resources, through the
 University’s 21st Century Library initiative, led by Whittle (additional expenditure 2016/17-2020/21
 of £1.6M above routine spend) (ILES 4.15). Research groupings across the UoA have benefited
 from subscriptions to 60+ significant electronic resources comprising original papers and journals,
 on top of existing subscriptions to some of the main resources for historical research: Patrologia
 Latina, Early English Books Online, Eighteenth-Century Collections Online, Mass Observation,
 Nineteenth-Century Pamphlets and Periodicals Online, Foreign Broadcast Information Service
 Daily Reports, ProQuest News and Newspapers. This extra investment has supported the
 acquisition of digital resources across the UoA’s different research specialisms including:

       CMS: Acta Sanctorum;
       CEMS and CMHS: State Papers Online Parts 1-4, and Eighteenth-Century Journals Portal.
       CMH and WCCEH: LBQT Magazine Archive; Sex and Sexuality (Kinsey Institute Library
        and Special Collections)
       CVS, CIGH: Colonial Law in Africa, 1808-1966; Foreign Office Files for China 1919-1980;
        Pravda and Izvestiia and Voprosy Istorii archives; Chatham House Archive; Dublin Castle
        Records; BBC Listener Research Department Records 1937-1950; BBC Handbooks,
        Reports and Accounts
       ESAC: Foreign Office Files for Pakistan and Afghanistan 1947-1980; East India Company
        Archives

 In addition, staff have access to an unlimited number of Inter-library loans; PhDs have 20 free p.a.
 (10 if part-time), increased when necessary with support from their supervisor.

 3.3 The UoA, supported by the University, has strengthened its links to local archives, through
 formal agreements, including with the South West Heritage Trust which manages records offices
 in Devon and Somerset; local archives in Dorset and Cornwall; and the libraries and archives of
 Exeter and Wells Cathedrals (JClark is on Exeter’s Advisory Board). Tregidga leads the InstCS’s
 ongoing project, the Cornish AudioVisual Archive.

 3.4 The University has invested £1.2M in physical infrastructure and staffing for Digital
 Humanities. The bespoke cross-disciplinary DH Lab includes a seminar room, two photography
 labs for 2D digitisation, specialist 3D scanning and printing, and an AV recording and editing suite,
 supported by a team of 10 specialists. They support UoA staff with developing their own research
 and with funded research, including digitisation of 9368 judicial appeals records to the Privy
 Council from British Empire and Commonwealth 1792-1998 for Chatterjee’s AHRC Network,
 Subjects of Law (2012-14); datasets for Fusaro’s ERC project, Average Transaction Costs; and
 a digitisation documentary project for Chatterjee’s ERC project Forms of Law which is innovating
 in the application of existing technologies to the digitisation of documents written in right to left

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 scripts. The DH Lab strengthens the UoA’s relations with local heritage organisations; for example,
 with internal funding, JClark led on the digitisation of Exeter Cathedral’s Exeter Book of Old
 English (listed in 2016 on the UNESCO Memory of the World Register), and the medieval cartulary
 from Powderham Castle for on-site physical display and on-line open access. Since 2014 the UoA
 has appointed one DH-specialist lecturer (Ward); at the same time other colleagues have
 proactively drawn on DH-approaches for their own research including medievalists (Birkett,
 JClark) and modernists (Thackeray, Toye). DH approaches extend to postgraduates and
 students: as well as the Hypatia project (see section 1.4), Tregidga’s HLF-funded project,
 Cornwall’s Maritime Churches, works with sixth form and university students to compile a digital
 archive of visual, film and oral histories.

 3.5 The UoA benefits from wider institutional investment in an operational infrastructure to
 support the needs of all researchers. In normal (pre-Covid) times, all permanent staff have their
 own office, PCs, unrestricted access to printers, copiers and scanners, and a research allowance
 of £1000 per annum. Each research centre is funded for an external programme of visiting
 researchers. Colleagues are also able to bid for additional funds from the HoDs, College of
 Humanities and University to pump prime research, fund reproduction rights and international
 collaboration; for examples see section 1.2. Collaborative research between Penryn Humanities’
 constituent elements is funded internally by a ring-fenced Penryn Humanities Research Fund
 (currently £7,000 annually).

 Grant applications from colleagues benefit from the departmental support system outlined in
 section 2.2. Administrative support for research and impact is organised at University level (ILES
 4.6-9); the Humanities College also employs an Impact Officer who helps UoA colleagues develop
 and deliver impact.

 3.6 The UoA has benefited from investment in cross-disciplinary research centres. The £4M
 WCCEH, housed in a specially adapted suite, crosses humanities, medicine, and social sciences,
 and is made up of over 16 academics, 10 postdoctoral fellows and 10 PhD students, supported
 by 5 operations staff. Historians are at its heart and include its founding director Jackson and
 Vargha, PDF (Moore), PDRA (Cooper) and a PhD student (Yamada); members of the CMH are
 all involved with the cross-disciplinary research of WCCEH. In 2019/20 the University launched
 the cross-disciplinary Institute for Cultural Enquiry (IICE); still in its early stages with only one
 round of awards so far, it will be a hub for developing and supporting cross-disciplinary research,
 especially across HASS subjects, in future years. The success of historians at Exeter in
 collaborating to address UN Sustainable Development Goals in collaboration with social scientists
 is one example of our success in working across disciplinary boundaries in innovative
 collaborations that are informing policymaking: for example, Hynd’s IICE-funded research on
 ‘Race, gender and childhood in post-humanitarian campaigning at local and global levels’ with
 colleagues in Politics and Bridger’s UKRI Future Leaders Award (see section 4.3.4 below).
 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1. Interdisciplinary and international collaboration is integral to our research activity. Conscious
 of our responsibility to promote and support History, we pride ourselves on supporting
 colleagues at every career stage to make significant contributions to the discipline beyond
 the University and foster collaborations and engagement with non-academic sectors. More than
 28 colleagues (11 female – 3 professors, 5 senior lecturer/AP, 3 lecturers; 17 male - 7 professors,
 6 senior lecturer/APs, 4 lecturers), beyond the 5 associated with the ICSs, have engaged with
 diverse communities and publics through their research. Further, colleagues at all career levels
 are embedded in national and international academic infrastructures, and perform academic roles
 for learned societies, journals, conferences, grant-giving and assessment bodies, as well as in
 research policy development, book publishing and PhD examination.

 4.2 Wide-ranging, interdisciplinary collaboration is central to our research activity. All
 members of the UoA belong to one or more of the interdisciplinary research centres (see section
 1.2); section 2.4.1-2 details collaboration around PGR training. The majority of colleagues actively
 collaborate with international researchers: more than 34 colleagues currently have active
                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research projects (funded and non-funded) with academics in over 26 countries across 5
 continents, as shown here:




 They range from colleagues at the beginning of their career working with established international
 researchers on joint publications, grant applications, and conference presentations, including
 collaborations by Spaskovska with researchers from universities in Austria, Switzerland, Australia
 and Oxford to mid-career staff e.g. Birkett works with IT researchers at Wesleyan University, USA;
 Vargha has collaborators in the Netherlands, France, Hong Kong, Norway and the USA. All those
 at professorial level are involved in international collaboration e.g. Mark collaborated with
 colleagues at Oxford, Columbia, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Leipzig and Belgrade, and
 the French consortium LABEX on two different projects and Whittle collaborates with researchers
 at Fudan University, Shanghai, and Belgian and Swedish universities on joint publications and
 workshops.

 All staff have ongoing research collaborations with other institutions in the UK. These are too
 numerous to detail but include Lawrence’s participation in the ground-breaking UKRI
 interdisciplinary project with the Alan Turing Institute, Living with Machines, using digital methods
 to explore the impact of the first Industrial Revolution.

 4.3     Engagement, knowledge exchange and impact are embedded across our research. In
 addition to the activities outlined in the ICSs, all colleagues are involved in knowledge
 exchange and many undertake impactful research. Only some representative examples are
 listed below.

 4.3.1 Contribution to Public Policy: In addition to the ways in which our research has informed
 health policy documented in ICS Embedding, via the WCCEH, other colleagues have collaborated
 with the Civil Service, think tanks, health professionals and trade unions to inform the development
 of current policy in the areas of crime, housing and social policy, trade and foreign policy, and
 labour rights. This work has often been facilitated by UKRI funding. Under the auspices of their
 AHRC international research network Imagining Markets (2014-16), Thackeray, Thompson and
 Toye delivered a public policy event co-organised with HM Treasury, the Department for Business,


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS), and History & Policy, deemed by the Director General,
 Business and Science ‘timely and pertinent to ongoing discussions being held within the
 department and has helped inform my policy discussion with ministers’. The audience of 15
 analysts at the Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government found Lawrence’s
 insights arising from his monograph ‘really interesting and helpful as we think about developing
 Communities policy further'. Curless held two ESRC-funded conferences jointly with the TUC at
 Congress House, and a workshop on migrant labour in Singapore jointly with a local civil society
 organisation, Function 8. Allerfeldt collaborated with the Gangmasters Licensing Authority and
 Devon and Cornwall Constabulary on research into modern slavery legislation for his AHRC
 project, Negating Humanity, resulting in a policy brief for the Partnership for Conflict, Crime and
 Security Research. More locally, JClark and French worked with Teignbridge District Council to
 improve the evidence-base of Conservation Area Designations, and therefore planning policy,
 through workshops with local community members (2018-19). The UoA also has collaboration
 agreements with several major international NGOs including that between the WCCEH and the
 World Health Organisation, and Thompson’s work with the International Committee of the Red
 Cross and UN Secretariat.

 4.3.2 Influencing the Work of Museums and Other Heritage Organisations. The UoA’s
 connections with local and national heritage organisations have developed substantially since
 2014. Consolidating long-standing links with local heritage groups, we have signed memoranda
 of agreements with the South-west Federation of Museums, the Cornwall Museums Partnership,
 Exeter’s Royal Albert Memorial Museum and Exeter Cathedral. The UoA also works with local
 government through a collaborative agreement with Cornwall Council. On the national scale, we
 have signed collaboration agreements with the Department of Education, Heritage Advisory
 Group, Historic England, the Imperial War Museum, the National Trust and Survival International,
 and have informal working relationships with the Historical Association, the Brooks Advisory Trust,
 and the Imperial War Graves Commission.

 Reflecting and strengthening these links, and the global spread of our research expertise, as
 demonstrated by Onciul (ICS Influencing), colleagues from all career stages have worked with,
 and advised local, national and international museums and organisations.

 In 2019 French set up the Exeter Heritage Partnership, bringing together more than 8 institutions;
 it leads the 4-year programme associated with Exeter’s UNESCO City of Literature status (2019-
 2022). Davey acted as consultant for Plymouth City Museum’s new 100 Journeys permanent
 display and McCallum for the British Museum’s ‘Currency of Communism’ exhibition (2017-18).
 Exeter Cathedral’s archivist reports that doing a “Forgeries-style” exhibition has become internal
 short-hand when planning future exhibitions’ after Roach’s successful medieval exhibition in May
 2019. JClark and French curated new permanent exhibits for Powderham Castle about its
 historical development. In addition to Fisher’s work (ICS Creative Methods), Jackson sits on the
 Science Museum’s Medicine Gallery Advisory Panel and their Collecting COVID Advisory Panel.
 Withey, supported by a Wellcome Trust Public Engagement Award, researched and curated the
 exhibition 'The Age of the Beard' at the Florence Nightingale Museum, London (2016-2017).
 Attended by 23,473 (45% male, 55% female), this exhibition was noted for increasing the
 proportion of male visitors to the museum. Mark’s AHRC project, 'Socialism Goes Global’ resulted
 in a major exhibition, ‘Tito in Africa’ at the Museum of Yugloslavia in Belgrade (2017), attended
 by 56,000 people, before touring to Oxford’s Pitt Rivers Museum (2018) and the Wende Musuem,
 Los Angeles (2019). Mark’s AHRC-Labex funded Criminalization of Dictatorial Pasts (2016-19)
 project worked with the International Committee of Memorial Museums in Remembrance of the
 Victims of Public Crimes assisting memorial museums in Kazakhstan and Chile not normally
 included in global discussions to go beyond national victim stories.

 4.3.3 Contribution to educational practice beyond university. Beyond Pennell’s ICS First
 World War, several other colleagues’ research informed the secondary school history curriculum
 and pedagogy in England, Wales and France, by delivering materials and practitioner training.
 With the Historical Association, Hamilton organised a CPD-workshop (2018), attended by 35
 secondary school teachers, on late Anglo-Saxon England to support the demand for greater

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 knowledge about medieval history required by reforms to GCSE history in England and Wales.
 Hanley served on the Runnymede Trust-AHRC ‘Our Migration Story’ panel (2016) and contributed
 a new learning resource to support OCR’s GCSE history module ‘Migration to Britain’.
 Internationally, Mark co-authored an interactive digital school textbook in conjunction with the
 French Ministry of Education on new approaches to criminalising the past. Chatterjee created a
 course on The Decline and Fall of the Mughal Empire, 1658-1739 for Massolit, to broaden the
 secondary school curriculum. Similarly focusing on an online platform, and designed to support
 non-formal, lifelong learning, CIGH colleagues authored and delivered a successful MOOC:
 Empire: The Controversies of British Imperialism. Launched in 2016 through the Future Learn
 platform, it has run 22 times, attracting 78,395 enrolments, including 40,057 active learners, drawn
 from 88 countries.

 4.3.4 Community Engagement. Colleagues have demonstrated significant engagement with
 community groups both locally, in the South West of England, and overseas. French‘s AHRC First
 World War Public Engagement Research Fund project, ‘Farming, Fishing and Food Supply in
 Devon During the First World War’ (2015-2016), organised six workshops with local researchers
 leading to publications in the Journal of the Devon History Society; one contribution won the 2018
 national ‘Local Historian’ prize for the best short research article. Tregidga’s HLF Cornwall’s
 Maritime Churches project supported local university and sixth-form students to create a digital
 archive of audio-visual material exploring church buildings and their communities. Antic co-
 organised a workshop on Mental Health across Cultural Borders at the Institute of Psychiatry,
 Psychology and Neurology (November 2018) (46 attendees) to support health practitioners.
 Overseas, in addition to Onciul’s research (ICS Influencing), Bridger works with a South African
 NGO, the Khulamani Support Group, for her UKRI-Future Leaders Fellowship research into
 women’s untold histories of violence in modern South Africa.

 4.3.5 Public engagement through contributing to artistic and cultural products, and media
 content. While instances of our researchers’ engagement with media are too numerous to list,
 some representative examples include significant contribution to content. Whittle contributed to a
 programme on ‘The Motherhood Myth’ for BBC Radio 4 (2019; 10.7M listener reach), and served
 as a filmed expert contributor on early modern economic and social history for the BBC series
 ‘The History of the English Village’, broadcast 2018 (BBC South West) and 2019 (BBC 4). Toye
 co-presented a C4 2018 documentary ‘Churchill's Secret Affair’ (11.4M viewer reach). In 2017
 Singh contributed to written guides for the British Film Institute’s ‘India on Film’ and ‘South Asian
 Britain on Film’ Digital Archive Projects, which made some 200 films publicly accessible online.
 He also contributed to ‘Britain’s Muslim Soldiers’ (BBC 1, 2016), and ‘Soldiers of the Empire’ series
 (BBC Radio 4, 2014).

 4.4 Since 2014 9 colleagues, from all career stages, received national and international
 prizes for their research. They include 7 early colleagues appointed since 2014 including
 Antic (Wiener Library Fraenkel Prize in Contemporary History, 2015); Davey (Jan Glete prize
 for Maritime History, 2015); Hanley (RHS Alexander Prize for first published article, 2016; RHS
 Whitfield Prize for a first monograph on British History, 2019); Vargha (American Association for
 the History of Medicine, 2016). Colleagues in post before 2014 awarded prizes for their research
 include Roach (Longman-History Today Prize, 2017 and Labarge Prize, Canadian Society of
 Medievalists, 2017); Jackson (Royal Society, Bernal-Wilkins-Medawar Medal for history of
 medicine and science, 2018). Whittle was elected a Fellow of the Academy of Social Science in
 2015.

 At the same time, twenty colleagues (12 female, 8 male) at all career stages have received
 national and international recognition of the excellence of their research through the award of
 research fellowships and visiting professorships. Two major awards stand out: Bridger to a
 UKRI FLF (2020) on South African gendered violence in the third year of her appointment to a
 permanent lectureship; Thomas to an Independent Social Research Foundation Senior
 Fellowship on imperialist humanitarianism (2016). Internationally, Mark to a Netherlands Institute
 of Advanced Studies (NIAS) Fellowship, on global decolonisation and post-1945 European history,
 and Toulalan (2017) to a US Folger Library Fellowship on early modern medicine.

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.5 UoA researchers at all career stages play a significant role in supporting and leading
 academic research in their respective fields at local, national and international levels contributing
 to the discipline’s sustainability.

 All colleagues belong to learned societies (local, national and international). 38 are Fellows of
 the RHS; Hamilton was its Treasurer (2014-19); Toye is a Literary Director. Chatterjee was on
 the steering committee of History UK (2019-20). Onciul founded and chairs the UK Chapter of the
 Association of Critical Heritage Studies. Many colleagues serve in key positions in specialist
 learned societies, including 15 who have served on the councils or executive committees of 14
 societies including African Studies Association for the UK (Hynd, 2015-20); British Agricultural
 History Society (French, 2015-20; Whittle, Chair, 2012-15); British Association of South Asian
 Studies (Williams, 2016-19); British Society for Eighteenth-century Studies (Hanley, 2017--);
 British Society for the History of Science (Noakes, 2012-16); Economic History Society (Whittle,
 2016-19); Henry Bradshaw Society (Hamilton, 2015--); Society for the Social History of Medicine
 (Vargha) and Fusaro: International Maritime Historical Association (2016-20), Société
 Internationale des Historiens de la Méditerranée (2013-2017; Vice-President 2017-2021).

 Eighteen colleagues, at all career stages, have undertaken significant editorial roles for some
 20 different journals, covering a range of histories. They include Singh, associate editor, South
 Asian Studies from 2017; Rendle, reviews editor (2008-2015) and co-editor of Revolutionary
 Russia from 2015; Vargha, co-editor of the Social History of Medicine from 2017; Roach, reviews
 co-editor, The Medieval Review from 2017; Hamilton, co-ordinating editor, Early Medieval Europe
 (2012-2015), Lawrence, chair, editorial board, Twentieth-century British History (2012-2017). In
 addition, a further eleven colleagues are on the editorial boards of twelve journals.

 Seven colleagues serve as editors for book series ranging across periods and specialties:
 Palgrave’s Historical Studies in Witchcraft and Magic (Barry); University of Hertfordshire Press
 Studies in Regional and Local History (Whittle); BASEES/Routledge Series on Russia and East
 European Studies (Rendle); Amsterdam UP Premodern Health, Disease and Disability (Rider);
 Cambridge UP Studies in Social and Cultural History of Modern Warfare and Elements of Modern
 Wars (both Thomas); University of Pittsburgh Press Science and Culture in the Nineteenth
 Century (Jackson).

 All mid-career colleagues and professors, and the majority of early career colleagues review
 articles for a range of journals too numerous to list here. Colleagues also reviewed book proposals
 and manuscripts for presses including Cambridge UP, Harvard UP, Manchester UP, Oxford UP,
 Princeton UP, Routledge and Yale UP.

 In addition to organising numerous panels at international conferences, and regular events and
 seminar programmes for learned societies and particular research centres, colleagues organised
 or co-organised more than 60 independent international workshops and conferences in the
 REF period. They included regular meetings of international scholars including the Association
 for Critical Heritage Studies Hangzhou (2018) and London (2020) conferences (Onciul); the
 British Association of South Asian Studies (Chatterjee and Singh, 2018); and the British Society
 for Eighteenth-century Studies Annual Conference (Hanley, 2018, 2019, 2020). Most of these
 events arose from specific funded research projects; 5 from medieval projects, 7 from early
 modern ones, 8 from modern medical history projects, and over 30 from modern history including
 20 associated with Mark’s three funded projects, 1989 after 1989, Socialism Goes Global, and
 Criminalisation of Dictatorial Pasts, and 4 for Pennell’s Teaching and Learning War (2017-2019).
 Together with Rupprecht and Spaskovska, Toye and Mark also organised a major British
 Academy International Conference: ‘Global Neoliberalisms: Lost and Found in Translation’.
 Several were organised by colleagues within the first five years of their appointment including
 Withey 2015; Antic (4 events, 2015-2018), Vargha (3 events, 2014-18), Williams (3 workshops,
 2017).



                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Colleagues delivered more than 40 keynote lectures in 16 countries. The majority are by senior
 colleagues but include early-career Espelt Bombín’s address to the Congreso de Antropología e
 Historia de Panamá, Panama City (2016).

 12 mid-career and senior colleagues serve on 10 national and international research awarding
 bodies in recognition of their expertise and their willingness to contribute to the wider health of
 the profession. Nationally, Jackson served on the 2014 REF History sub-panel and is its chair for
 REF2021; he was also senior academic adviser (Medical Humanities) to the Wellcome Trust
 (2013-16); Overy is a Fellow of the British Academy. 9 colleagues (6 female, 3 male) are members
 of the AHRC’s Peer Review College (PRC) and 2 colleagues (1 female, 1 male) on the ESCR’s
 PRC. Internationally, Espelt Bombín served on the ERC Starting Grants panel (2014-20). Mark
 was a member of the Danish DFF Humanities Research Board (2016-18), and the Dutch NIAS
 Review Panel (Memory), Whittle of the Belgian FWO History and Archaeology Grant Awarding
 Panel (2019-21). Toye is an external assessor for Princeton University’s Institute for Advanced
 Study Fellowships. Colleagues have also reviewed for funders including the Irish Research
 Council, Social Science and Humanities Research Council of Canada, the Netherlands
 Organisation for Scientific Research, and Danish DFF.

 Examining PhDs: over 20 colleagues examined more than 64 PhDs at more than 40 different
 academic institutions, including 26 within the UK. Internationally, colleagues served as external
 examiners at universities including: the Universities of Barcelona, Columbia, Copenhagen, Paris
 Diderot, Trinity College, Dublin, University College, Cork, University College, Dublin, ANU,
 Canberra, the University of Monash, and the University of Western Australia. On our contribution
 to cross-institutional PGR training see 2.4.1 above.

 4.6 Since REF2014, as evidenced above, we have collectively demonstrated our increasing
 momentum and strength in research, resulting in a substantial growth in our research
 performance. We have developed our international reputation in global and colonial history,
 medical and maritime history, public history and heritage; we have deepened and diversified
 impactful historical research, working in close collaboration with other academic disciplines, and
 with wider audiences including heritage and cultural industries and policy makers. Our research is
 demonstrably of the highest standards of scholarly excellence, which we believe to be of intrinsic
 value, an ethos which runs through all of our research. But we are also helping to change
 approaches to key societal issues: the decolonisation of history, understanding deep-time
 perspectives on climate change, health inequalities, and recovering the untold stories of gender-
 based violence. We are at the forefront of pioneering new methodologies that will reinvigorate the
 study of history in future generations, embracing AI and new digital technologies. Our increasingly
 diverse research community, including PGRs, postdoctoral researchers, and a high proportion of
 early to mid-career colleagues, are in a commanding position to build on these achievements and
 take us into the 2020s. The training, professional development and national/international
 connections we have established will prepare them for future research that is even more
 collaborative, interdisciplinary, multi-institutional and impactful.




                                                                                            Page 20
