Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: London School of Economics and Political Science

 Unit of Assessment: 18: Law

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

    A. Unit context and structure

 Context. For over a century the LSE Law Department has been a pioneer in advancing the
 understanding of law as an integral part of the social sciences, addressing emerging issues and
 shaping the public debate. Historically, this has resulted in LSE scholars opening up such new
 fields of legal scholarship as corporate and commercial law (Chorley, Gower), labour law (Kahn-
 Freund, Wedderburn), tax law (Wheatcroft), family law (Stone), and public law (Robson,
 Jennings, de Smith, Griffith), and promoting new methods in international law (Lauterpacht,
 Higgins), legal history (Milsom) and legal systems (Zander). With a faculty of c.60 today, we
 continue to build on this legacy by consolidating our leadership across the full range of legal
 subjects and pursuing innovative research in more recently developing fields, such as human
 rights, media, environment, new technologies, financial markets, and transnational law. Our work
 embraces the breadth of scholarly perspectives, from Roberts’ pioneering work on the
 anthropology of law, through Lacey’s socio-legal studies, to Blackwell’s quantitative studies of
 the professions. Our success is confirmed by top rankings in previous REF/RAE exercises, by
 our consistent top ten ranking in both the THE and QS World University Law Rankings, and by
 the election of 13 of our present faculty as Fellows of the British Academy.

 Research Mission. Our mission has been constant since our foundation: maintaining a vibrant,
 challenging and self-critical environment that enables us to identify emerging research
 questions, to support the next generation of scholars in becoming leaders in their fields, and to
 help all of our faculty realise their potential for producing world leading scholarship. We strive to
 fulfil that mission today by the following strategy:
      (i)     recruiting only career-track staff with evident potential to produce world-leading
              research;
      (ii)    supporting staff through professorial mentoring and monitoring of career progression
              and enhancing equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI);
      (iii)   integrating our well-resourced and vibrant doctoral community into the work of the
              department;
      (iv)    promoting a postdoctoral fellowship programme to help junior researchers transition
              to career-track positions;
      (v)     reducing the teaching loads of pre-Major Review staff and equalising teaching
              responsibilities for others to ensure an equitable working environment;
      (vi)    providing targeted financial support, additional to individual staff research allowances,
              for innovative projects;
      (vii)   maintaining generous and flexible arrangements for sabbatical research leave;
      (viii) encouraging faculty participation in departmental research clusters and in LSE cross-
              disciplinary projects, programmes and centres;
      (ix)    facilitating knowledge exchange and impact for the benefit of society; and
      (x)     fostering an environment that encourages inclusivity, diversity, innovation and
              excellence in individual and collaborative scholarly work.

 The ways in which we meet these strategic objectives are explained in the sections that follow.

 Managerial structure. To help realise our mission, we rely on effective, integrated and
 supportive managerial arrangements. Our strategic objectives are monitored by our Strategic
 Planning Committee (SPC), which assumes primary responsibility for objectives (i), (ii), (iv), (v),
 (vii), and (x), and also advises the Head of Department on matters relating to the Department’s
 strategic aims and priorities, its budget and recruitment choices. Our EDI Committee advises
 SPC and the Head of Department on EDI policies and structures and so supports objectives (i),
 (ii) and (x).

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our research strategy is overseen by our Research Committee, which monitors and supports the
 Department’s research activities, develops its research and impact strategy, has responsibility
 for the REF submission, decides on applications to our research funds, fosters an environment
 that supports colleagues in developing their research careers, determines applications to our
 Visiting Fellows and Visiting Professors programmes, and informs and advises SPC. The
 Committee also keeps the Department and other working groups and School committees
 informed on our research strategy and policies. It is therefore primarily responsible for objectives
 (vi), (viii) and (ix). The Committee also has responsibility for ensuring that all faculty and
 students comply with the School’s Research Ethics Policy, as explained in the School’s REF5a
 Statement.

 The Doctoral Programme Director, who reports to SPC and sits on the Research Committee,
 oversees the development of the post-graduate research programme, including links with
 international institutions, courses and events to promote research skills and capabilities, and
 manages the dedicated budget (thereby managing objective (iii)).

    B. Research and impact strategy

 2014 Submission. In our 2014 REF submission, we reported that our principal objectives in the
 next REF period would be: (i) to enhance academic opportunities for outstanding young scholars
 by appointing at least two post-doctoral fellows each year and appointing regularly at assistant
 professor level; (ii) to expand the range of our research projects; (iii) to develop our profile in
 private law; (iv) to establish clear and flexible retirement and emeritus arrangements; (v) to
 strengthen support for external research funding applications; (vi) to nurture the ambitions of
 mid-career colleagues; (vii) to strengthen our strategic approach to achieving research impact;
 and (viii) to bolster our standing as a global research institution by appointing international
 visiting fellows/professors.

 We have continued to strive to realise those objectives. As described in Section 2, we have been
 recruiting primarily at assistant professor level and each year have appointed two post-doctoral
 fellows (i); we have established procedures to manage the transition to emeritus status (iv); and
 we have strengthened our career development review processes to ensure that the new
 academic career structure established in 2013 has provided mid-career colleagues with clear
 and realistic targets for promotion to full professor (vi). Section 3 indicates the advances made in
 expanding our range of research projects (ii) and supporting research funding applications (v). In
 Section 4, we explain the work undertaken to enhance our strategic approach to advancing KEI
 (vii) and our global profile (viii). Across all three sections the strengthening of our private law
 profile is demonstrated (iii).

 Research Strategy 2020-25

 In furtherance of our ten point strategy outlined in section 1, in 2020-25 we will focus in particular
 on (i) strengthening our support arrangements, including as regards EDI, to enable individual
 scholars to achieve their potential and (ii) keep under review and encourage department
 research projects, research clusters, and colleagues’ involvement in School-based initiatives.
 This strategy is designed to foster excellence across the entire range of methods and
 perspectives and ensure colleagues receive targeted support tied to their career stage and
 research strengths. We will also strengthen the impact of our work beyond the academic
 community.

 Our structures for supporting scholars as regards (i) are explained in Section 2. The main
 strands of our research strategy as regards (ii) and discussion of our Impact Strategy are
 outlined below.

 Research projects. Most of our research is undertaken by individual scholars but we also
 support the organic development of focused projects, and over the last review period have
 housed four of these: the International Humanitarian Law Project (IHLP), the Law and Financial

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Markets Project, the Legal Biography Project, and the Transnational Law Project. A recent
 review has concluded that the IHLP, established in 2008, has achieved its aims and will not be
 continued. The other three continue to flourish. Given our positive experience in terms of outputs
 and the enrichment of our research base, we will continue to support scholar-led projects that
 reflect colleagues’ research agendas.

 Research clusters. Central to our 2020-25 strategy is the provision of support for our existing
 and developing clusters. These clusters, which speak to the range of work carried out by the
 Department, provide a platform for supporting critical inquiry in colleagues’ shared areas of
 interest. They include: the Criminal Law and Criminal Justice Forum, the Governance and Law
 of European Markets Project (GOLEM), the London Labour Law Discussion Group, the Private
 Law Forum, the Corporate Law Forum, the Law, Data and Society Forum, and the London Law
 Club. These clusters typically organise 2-3 events each term at which the work of department or
 invited outside scholars is presented.

 School-based initiatives. In addition to department-based clusters, faculty members take
 leadership roles over many School-based interdisciplinary initiatives. These include well-
 established forums such as: the Mannheim Centre for Criminology, one of the largest
 criminological research groupings in Europe (Lacey, Peay, Ramsay); the Centre for the Analysis
 of Risk and Regulation, which examines risk management and regulatory practices (Black,
 Heyvaert); the European Institute, a leading multi-disciplinary centre for the study of
 contemporary Europe (de Witte, Wilkinson, Zglinski); the Centre for the Study of Human Rights
 (Gearty, Salomon, Beyani); and the Financial Markets Group, one of Europe’s leading
 interdisciplinary centres for academic research into financial markets (Schuster, Kershaw, Black,
 Braithwaite, Paech). Established alongside these units are newly-formed centres: the Centre for
 Women, Peace and Security, which develops strategies to promote justice, human rights and
 participation of women in conflict-affected situations (Chinkin, Director 2015-18), the Systemic
 Risk Centre (Micheler, Braithwaite), and the International Inequalities Institute (Lacey,
 Summers). Finally, we participate in more informal ventures that facilitate cross-disciplinary
 deliberation including: the Law and Economics Forum, focused on the intersection of law and
 economics (Schuster, Roxan, Kershaw); the Legal and Political Theory Forum (Poole, Loughlin,
 Murkens, Wilkinson); and the seminar programme of the Department of Gender Studies, which
 facilitates research that maps the gendered nature of social processes and the tenacity of
 gender power relations (Chinkin, Lacey). Central to our 2020-25 strategy is our commitment to,
 and provision of support for colleagues to participate in, these School-based initiatives.

 Impact Strategy 2020-25

 In line with the School’s general mission, the Department has always sought to inform and
 influence policies and decision-making on issues of social importance, including by engagement
 with legislators, policy makers, interest groups and the professions. Our recruitment and
 research strategies have consistently incorporated impact considerations, but we have recently
 reviewed this aspect of our role and have developed policies to strengthen impact and to
 enhance its visibility. Our 2020-25 impact strategy comprises three main elements. We first set
 the context for each element and then outline the related policies.

 1: to strengthen the support we provide to maximise the impact which our faculty’s research can
 have on law reform and improved policy making.

 Context. Our colleagues are frequently invited, both nationally and internationally, to provide
 input into legislative processes and to advise agencies on policy-related matters. We regularly
 provide evidence to public bodies: e.g. Moloney to the European Parliament Economic and
 Monetary Affairs Committee, the House of Commons International Trade Select Committee, the
 House of Lords EU Select Committee, and the London Assembly on financial regulation;
 Heyvaert to the House of Lords EU Select Committee on environmental protection aspects of
 the trade relationship between the UK and the EU; Lynskey to the House of Lords EU Select
 Committee on online platforms and the digital single market. We regularly participate in law

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reform initiatives: e.g. Jackson’s work on reforming the UK law on gamete storage periods;
 Peay’s research influencing the Law Commission’s bill on fitness to plead; Scott’s proposals for
 the reform of defamation law in Scotland and Northern Ireland. We undertake advisory work,
 such as Murray’s appointment as Special Advisor to the House of Lords Communications and
 Digital Select Committee inquiry on the internet; Gearty’s advisory role in the Commission on
 Justice in Wales and the Minister of Justice’s Court Reform Project, and Rossner’s research on
 video hearings that informed the reform programme of Her Majesty’s Courts and Tribunal
 Service. This work continues at the international level: e.g., Thambisetty’s membership of the
 Expert Group on a Sustainable Ocean Economy; Humphreys’ authorship of the 2018 Special
 Report on Global Warming for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change; and Beyani’s
 extensive work for the UN, South Sudan and Ethiopia on policy and legislative reforms affecting
 refugees.

 2: to consolidate and extend our network of interactions with, and enhance our influence over,
 key policy actors.

 Context. Several schemes promote interaction between academics and other policy actors. The
 Visiting Professors in Practice and Visiting Fellows schemes, together with our research forums,
 are some of the means through which we involve these actors in the Department’s activities.
 Illustrations include David Murphy (Bank of England), a Visiting Professor in Practice, and
 previously a Visiting Fellow. Our Visiting Professors in Practice also include Carl Baudenbacher,
 former President of the EFTA Court, and Karen Banks, Deputy Director General of the Legal
 Service at the European Commission. Since his return to the Department after retiring from the
 High Court, Cranston has played a key role in our Legal Biography Project, which includes
 interviews with senior practitioners. Faculty members have also spent time within public
 organisations, e.g. Braithwaite was appointed as Research Visitor at the Bank of England’s
 Financial Market Infrastructure Directorate in 2015.

 3: to exploit the potential offered by technology to strengthen the Department’s knowledge
 exchange and impact (KEI) activities.

 Context. Over the last review period, we have taken steps to enhance the technical base of our
 activities, including the appointment of a dedicated KEI officer. A departmental review in 2018
 concluded that the best way forward would be to integrate this role into our communications
 strategy. The strategy is therefore now coordinated and implemented by the Research Director
 and Communications Director (professorial roles that report to SPC) who work in cooperation
 with our Events and Communications Officers and a Webmaster.

 Policies to advance our 2020-25 Impact Strategy. We aim to realise the elements of our
 2020-25 Impact Strategy through the following policies.

 1: strengthening engagement and supporting networks.

 This policy will be promoted in two main ways.

 First, in addition to providing individual research allowances, the Department allocates funds via
 the Research Committee to support group activities. Our policy gives priority to events involving
 government/policy officials and practitioners. Examples include the underwriting (£5k) in 2019 of
 a seminar series on ‘Lay Participation in Criminal Proceedings’ (Owusu-Bempah). In the same
 year, we funded a workshop commemorating the 100th anniversary of a landmark competition
 law ruling (Dunne, in cooperation with Maher, UCD).

 Secondly, the Department has been and will continue to be actively involved in the institution-
 wide KEI strategy, which supports staff in their engagement with non-academic audiences. Staff
 members participate in two ways: by applying for centrally managed funds, or by the
 Department’s Research Director’s allocation of £10,000 pa to small-scale initiatives. Initiatives
 include an interdisciplinary project on taxation and inequality that draws on research (Summers,

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2020) on wealth taxes, which attracted the interest of major media outlets. Another funded a
 seminar in which the research results of a monograph (Ibanez Colomo, 2018) were discussed by
 major stakeholders.

 Our departmental KEI funding initiative was started in 2018 and, in line with the School-wide
 ambitions outlined in REF5a, will be a crucial aspect of our future strategy. Our internal
 mechanisms will seek to ensure that the faculty makes the most of these opportunities,
 especially at an early-career stage. These mechanisms currently include a standing item on our
 Department Meeting agenda on ‘Talking about Research Impact’, which ensures regular sharing
 of experience, by colleagues at all career stages. Our career development review process
 (Section 2) also supports our KEI strategy: professorial reviewers ensure targeted KEI support is
 addressed in annual review meetings.

 2: enhancing the visibility of our research.

 Since 2014, the Department has sought to showcase its research strengths more systematically
 to the wider legal community, to policy makers, and to other research users. We now make all of
 our research outputs publicly available where permitted by publishers, through the Library’s LSE
 Research Online (LSERO) institutional repository. Data shows that research outputs deposited
 by members of the Department as full text deposit / open access has increased by over 25%
 during this REF period. The Department produces a working paper series and policy briefing
 series, both of which are openly available.

 Visibility has also been enhanced by profiling the work of our evolving formal and informal
 research groupings through our website. This has required organising our different areas of
 research strength so that they can be most efficiently communicated to wider publics. With
 respect to traditional areas of strength (e.g. public law, human rights and regulation) this was
 straightforward, but working to ensure the visibility of newer fields, has enabled us to marshal
 our cross-cutting research strengths. Taking our research strength in law and technology as a
 pilot exercise, we have recently developed a set of webpages to showcase how our work
 advances understanding of relations between law, technology, and society. This was
 complemented by publishing audiovisual material illustrating our interactions with governmental
 and non-governmental bodies. Building on the success of this pilot, our policy is to extend this
 venture to other research clusters.

 3: developing additional methods of disseminating knowledge.

 We have designed a variety of policies to maximise the dissemination of our research via our
 website. Building on the success of our Working Paper Series (LSE Legal Studies), we have
 extended our publication outlets to cater directly to policy makers and general audiences. In
 2014, the LSE Law Policy Briefing Papers was launched. These are short and accessible
 summaries of findings of relevance to contemporary discussions. By the end of 2019, over 40
 briefing papers had been published, covering such topics as the regulation of algorithms, crypto-
 property, and Israeli-Palestinian cross-border transactions. Additionally, our website has been
 redesigned to make research findings accessible by means of podcasts. Events organised within
 the Department are routinely recorded and the proceedings available in audio-only format; these
 include an event devoted to the 100th anniversary of the Paris Peace Conference (2019) and
 another commemorating 100 years of votes for women (2018). In 2015, we set up a YouTube
 channel, the content of which includes proceedings of a conference to launch a Global Tax
 Symposium (Baistrocchi, Roxan and Summers, 2019) and a series on Cryptoassets and the Law
 (Micheler and Schuster, 2018). We plan to strengthen these outlets as we also develop
 additional methods of disseminating knowledge.

 Illustrative of the potential of these new dissemination methods is Chinkin’s leadership of a
 major UKRI funded research project: the GCRF Gender, Justice & Security Hub. The project,
 which from the start, has actively engaged with LSE's data management services, will ensure


                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 that best practice for data management planning, data protection and security as well as data
 archiving are built into the project lifecycle and shared with research partners across the world.

 2. People

 Career track appointments strategy

 Our key objective is to recruit career-track staff capable of producing world-leading research,
 and to support their career progression. Given our commitment to identifying and nurturing
 talent, we appoint predominantly at Assistant Professor level and seek to integrate early-career
 scholars through well-tested mentoring and other support functions, and to signal to new
 colleagues our confidence in their futures as leading scholars. In the review period we have
 recruited 21 Assistant Professors. We recruit at Professor level only rarely, usually to fill an
 established Chair (in the review period Collins was recruited to the Cassel Chair of Commercial
 Law, 2019) and at Associate Professor level almost never (none in this review period).

 By recruiting in areas of strategic teaching needs and equalising teaching loads, we ensure that
 all colleagues have sufficient capacity to pursue their own research agenda. But because our
 evolving teaching needs also reflect our research strengths, there is a close synergy between
 our Assistant Professor appointments and our main areas of research strength. In the review
 period the Assistant Professors appointed were in the areas of anthropology of law (Koch,
 2014), corporate/financial law (Paterson, 2013; Spooner, 2013; Marjosola, 2016; Howell, 2018),
 competition law (Dunne, 2015), criminal law (Picinali, 2014; Owusu-Bempah, 2016), criminology
 (Rossner, 2013), EU law (de Witte, 2014; Zglinski, 2019), family law (Trotter, 2018), labour law
 (Sanders, 2013), medical law (Auckland, 2019), IP and law tech (McDonagh, 2020; Husovec,
 2020), tax law (Blackwell, 2013). These are all areas of research strength and growth for the
 department. We also recruited four Assistant Professors in private law (MacMahon, 2014;
 Summers, 2014; Sage, 2015; Cutts, 2016), an area specified in 2014 as one of our strategic
 priorities.

 Non-career track appointments strategy

 Additionally, we appoint scholars on five schemes designed to advance our key strategic
 objectives of assisting junior researchers to develop their careers, keeping us engaged with new
 scholarly developments, and strengthening our impact and knowledge exchange activities. Each
 scheme enriches our research environment, not least by facilitating interaction between scholars
 and practitioners.

 1. Post-doctoral fellows (PDFs). Our recruitment strategy includes the appointment each year of
 two, non-career-track LSE Law Fellows. Established in 2010, these two-year PDFs enable
 fellows to develop their research, gain teaching experience and transition from doctoral
 researcher to career track scholar. Forming an integral part of our research community, fellows
 teach 50% of the standard rate, are allocated a Mentor, research funds (£2,930 annually), and
 office space. We have recruited 16 Fellows in the review period, meeting our 2014 objective of
 ‘appointing at least two’ every year. Through this scheme we recruit exceptional scholars who
 have gone on to build strong academic careers in career track positions, including at Alberta,
 Essex, George Mason, KCL, LSE, and St Gallen.

 2. Visiting Professors. Since 2009 we have invited short-term Visiting Professors of global
 standing to enrich our research community. These are selected through a competitive process of
 staff nomination. Up to three Visiting Professors each year spend two weeks with us, typically
 meeting colleagues and PhD students, giving a research seminar, and engaging in specialist
 teaching. In the review period more than 20 scholars have visited the Department, including
 Charlesworth (ANU), Garland (NYU), Jasanoff (Harvard) and Baer (German Federal
 Constitutional Court). We also participate in the School’s Centennial Professors scheme, which
 appoints world-leading scholars on a fractional basis for a three-year term. In the last review
 period, the School appointed international lawyer Koskeniemmi (Helsinki). In this period

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Crenshaw (UCLA and Columbia University), the world-leading scholar on intersectionality
 studies, was appointed.

 3. Visiting Professors in Practice (VPPs). The Department regularly recommends to the School
 the appointment of three-year Visiting Professors in Practice who support our research
 community and strengthen our KEI strategy. We have, for example, recently appointed leading
 practitioners to support our research strengths in technology and IT law (Lewis, from City
 practice 2019), financial regulation (Murphy, from the Bank of England, 2019), human rights
 (Baroness Chakrabarti, 2016; Baroness Kennedy 2016), corporate/commercial law (Stokes and
 Witney, from commercial practice), media law (Tomlinson QC) and medical law (Lock QC). Over
 the review period, 12 VPPs have been appointed.

 4. Visiting Fellows. We are also committed, through our Visiting Fellows programme, to
 supporting academic colleagues who come to LSE to pursue a programme of research and
 engage with faculty. We appoint around six Visiting Fellows each year. The Research
 Committee, which manages the process, seeks to appoint those whose research fits well with
 the Department’s interests and strengths. Over the review period we have appointed 47 Visiting
 Fellows, including Told (Vienna), Howse (NYU), Phillipson (Durham), Romeo (Bocconi) and
 Knight (Wellington).

 5. Simon Roberts Visiting Research Fellows. Building on the success of our Visiting Professor
 programme, in 2015 we pioneered this scheme, which supports exceptional – primarily UK-
 based – career-track colleagues ‘who have demonstrated an ability to produce outstanding
 research in their fields’. Fellows are invited through staff nomination by the Research
 Committee; during their (funded) two-week visit, they engage with colleagues through seminars
 and informal discussion. Those invited over the review period include Cutts (Birminghan), Erdos
 (Cambridge), Goldoni (Glasgow), Keenan (Birkbeck), Kennedy (Edinburgh), Tourkochoriti
 (Galway), and Wheattle (Durham).

 Career Development

 Mentoring, CDR, Promotion. In furtherance of our REF 2014 objective of ‘enhancing academic
 opportunities for outstanding young scholars’, all LSE Law Fellows, Assistant Professors, and
 Associate Professors have a Professorial Mentor. Mentors meet colleagues at least termly to
 provide informal support and advice on career development. Mentors typically read papers and
 advise on publication outlets, although there is also a departmental tradition of all Professors
 being available to review colleagues’ work. The mentoring process is reviewed annually by the
 Head of Department and the regular December Professors’ Committee. Additionally, all
 Assistant and Associate Professors have an annual Career Development Review (CDR)
 meeting, which provides an opportunity to consider career progression and research plans,
 document objectives and identify any developmental needs. CDR meetings are undertaken by
 two Professors to ensure the meeting is wide-ranging, informed, and supportive. The Professors
 who carry out CDR meetings are drawn from the Department’s Professorial Staffing
 Subcommittee, comprising experienced Professors including the current Head of Department
 and previous Heads. The CDR process is informed by a prior meeting of all CDR Reviewers; this
 ensures that Reviewers are aware of the research support available for colleagues and of issues
 to look out for, including as regards EDI, and that best practice is shared. The CDR process is
 integrated into the annual promotions cycle. Two Professors’ Committees are held annually to
 review the progression of all colleagues, based on their CVs (which includes a research
 trajectory, the writing of which is supported by Mentors), to read their work as needed, and to
 provide feedback for the CDR process. In accordance with our EDI objectives, promotion is not
 based on application but by annual review of all colleagues. Over the review period, six
 colleagues have been promoted from Associate Professor to Professor (five male, one female)
 and 19 from Assistant to Associate Professor (nine male, 10 female).

 Workload Allocation. Staff development and our EDI objectives are further supported by our
 workload allocation model. Assistant Professors teach no more than 90 hours a year (LSE Law

                                                                                           Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Fellows 60-70 hours); a full teaching load is 120 hours. Over the review period we have put
 additional resources into our Professional Services Team to relieve early-career colleagues from
 certain administrative tasks. The allocation of administrative roles is carried out by the Head
 after the CDR process to take into account career development needs and EDI considerations.

 Sabbatical Leave. The Department believes that sabbatical leave is fundamental to career
 development and research excellence. Staff are encouraged to apply according to the School
 norms of one term’s leave after eight terms or one year after seven years. Over the review
 period, 64 colleagues have benefitted from the award of sabbatical leave, amounting to more
 than 140 terms’ leave.

 Research Allowances. Professors and Associate Professors have an annual research allowance
 of £2,750 (for research assistance, conference travel, and data collection, etc). Assistant
 Professors and LSE Fellows have a higher allowance (£3,180). Over the review period these
 allowances have increased by 72% and 99% respectively. Unspent funds can be rolled over to a
 maximum of £5,500. As mentioned above, additional research funding is available through our
 Research Committee.

 Seminars, Working Papers, Book Launches. Our Staff Seminar Series is an integral part of our
 research culture and development strategy. Colleagues present their work in this informal setting
 and there is an expectation that all colleagues, including Fellows, participate actively. The Series
 is planned a year in advance, sympathetically timetabled, and has very high attendance. In
 furtherance of our EDI objectives, care is taken to invite identified colleagues to present (thereby
 ensuring that all colleagues are supported in showcasing their work) and the maintenance of a
 supportive environment is taken seriously. Typically, 11 seminars are held annually: 79 in total
 over the review period. Our LSE Law Working Paper Series (hosted by SSRN), launched in
 2007, offers further support, provided by the Series Editors. Our more specialist research cluster
 seminar series, while also hosting external speakers, provide additional opportunities for
 colleagues to present their research. While our community strives for excellence by promoting a
 self-critical environment, we also celebrate research achievements. We provide funding for book
 launch events, 14 of which were organised over the review period.

 Impact. The various ways in which the Department can assist colleagues to enhance the impact
 of their research is always discussed at annual career development meetings and the Research
 Committee explicitly accords priority in research funding to assist junior colleagues with KEI
 activities. The section on Research Impact Strategy above provides illustrations of the ways in
 which we have provided support to facilitate exchanges between academia and the world of
 practice.

 Flexible retirement. Our 2014 REF strategy included as a principal objective ‘clear and flexible
 retirement and emeritus arrangements’ to ensure valued colleagues can remain central to our
 research goals. We have a policy that allows such colleagues to remain active in the
 Department. Office space is made available and our Emeritus Professors are involved in
 seminars and social events. Colleagues like Baldwin, Bridge, Hartley, Harlow, Reiner and
 Zander continue to be engaged with the Department, in publishing (e.g., in 2020 Reiner’s Social
 Democratic Criminology and Zander’s 8th edition of The Law-Making Process) and public
 engagement (e.g., Harlow’s 2020 appointment as member of the Independent Review of
 Administrative Law).

 Orientation. In addition to School events, the Department runs a bespoke orientation process for
 new colleagues which includes the Department’s research traditions and culture, the support
 available for research, and the Department’s commitment to EDI and to colleagues’ progression.
 All new colleagues are assigned a non-professorial ‘buddy’ to help them settle in.

 Culture and Collegiality. Finally, the Department places great emphasis on nurturing its
 collegiate and inclusive research culture. This priority is at the core of all the mechanisms
 outlined above. It is also advanced by the host of other initiatives, including our regular Faculty

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Coffee Mornings, always attended by the Department’s management team and timetabled to
 allow for different personal circumstances. This ensures that our formal processes for supporting
 EDI (above and following) are complemented by a supportive and inclusive departmental
 culture.

 Support Mechanisms for and Evidence on the Training and Supervision of PGR Students

 The recruitment, training, and mentoring of PhD students is one of our key research priorities.
 Our doctoral students have long played a key role in the intellectual life of the Department and
 are a vital part of our scholarly community. We are fortunate in recruiting an outstanding cohort
 from an extremely strong applicant pool. Our programme is small: we recruit around 10 new PhD
 students a year, all fully funded from ESRC, AHRC, LSE studentships and Department
 studentships. We place great emphasis on timely completion: 55 students have completed over
 the review period, the great majority (80-85%) on time.

 The small, well-funded character of the programme reflects our commitment to ensuring our
 doctoral students are integrated into our community and form a mutually supportive cohort.
 Viewing it mainly as a training programme for future scholars, we remain mindful of the potential
 academic job market when recruiting. Over the review period, a very high percentage of our PhD
 graduates have taken up full time academic employment, a significant number of whom secured
 career track positions in their final year of doctoral study. Students have acquired lectureships at
 (in the UK) Birkbeck, Brunel, City, Durham, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Goldsmiths, KCL, Leeds, LSE,
 Northumbria, Nottingham, Southampton, UCL, Warwick, and York. Elsewhere, appointments
 include Canada (St Thomas University), Israel (IDC Herzliya), New Zealand (Wellington) and
 USA (New York University).

 We operate a two-supervisor model to ensure students have access to different scholarly
 perspectives. The capstone of the programme is our dedicated, mandatory skills course (LL500),
 a year-long seminar-based course which complements courses and training opportunities
 available through the LSE’s PhD Academy, Department of Methodology, and other units.
 Regularly reviewed and refreshed, it focuses on problems, processes, methods, and techniques
 specific to legal research. It also supports students through the process with preparation for life
 in academic law. Students are also encouraged to audit relevant courses from our large (100+
 courses) LLM programme.

 As part of our PhD students’ engagement in our scholarly life, they present their work at our
 dedicated PhD Research Seminars attended by all staff and they participate in our Staff Lunch-
 time Seminars Series. Our summer Upgrade Conference, during which our first-year students
 present their research, is a major event in our annual calendar.

 Many of our doctoral students are appointed to teach undergraduate classes in their second and
 third years. Some also work as editors for the Working Paper Series, as part of the Pro Bono
 team, as teachers in our LL4F9 Research and Writing Skills courses, and as Academic Student
 Advisors for Masters students. Doctoral students also attend and contribute to our Teaching
 Committee meetings.

 Doctoral students have a dedicated space in the Department, alongside the staff offices, and
 have ring-fenced access to the Department Meeting Room. Research allowances of £500
 annually are available to support their research and related expenses (e.g. conference
 attendance and book purchases). Students can also receive extra funding (by the Research
 Committee) to support the organisation of conferences and research-related events.

 We run a joint programme of doctoral conferences with Sciences Po, one of the LSE’s
 institutional partners. PhD students are also able to study for a period of time at the EUI as part
 of our Erasmus Exchange Scheme as well as at institutions such as UC Berkeley, Sciences Po
 and Columbia University, as part of the PhD Student Exchange Scheme. Two students were
 invited as Visiting Fellows to the Universities of Kent and Lucerne.

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The Doctoral Programme Director sits on SPC and Research Committee to ensure that the
 programme is fully integrated into our research planning. Our PhD Staff Student Liaison
 Committee has two student representatives and minutes are regularly discussed by the
 Teaching Committee. Our student representatives also represent the Department’s doctoral
 students at the Research Student Consultative Forum.

 Supporting Equity and Diversity

 The Department is committed to the LSE EDI Strategy, which seeks to advance diversity in our
 community and promote an inclusive staff experience. The current gender balance of our
 permanent staff is 38 male (M), 24 female (F): 8 M, 5 F Assistant Professors; 16 M, 12 F
 Associate Professors; and 14 M and seven F Professors. In 2019/20, our Assistant and
 Associate Professors were 15% BAME, 85% white; Professors 100% white. Over the review
 period we appointed 10 F and 11 M Assistant Professors. Our permanent staff come from a
 variety of national backgrounds, including being drawn from five continents and 10 European
 countries. Over the review period, two of the three Heads of Department have been female, and
 we strive to ensure gender-balanced representation in all departmental committees. EDI
 considerations infuse all methods through which we support our colleagues, but we set out
 below the key highlights.

 In 2017, we applied for Athena SWAN status, having volunteered to be a departmental
 participant in the School’s first application. The panel commended many aspects of our
 commitment to gender equality and determined that the Department had met the conditions to
 qualify for a Bronze Award. The Award could not then be formalized as the School did not then
 hold an Athena SWAN award; as of April 2020, the School has now achieved it. The 2017
 exercise had led us to formalize and enhance our support of EDI initiatives, including through the
 appointment of an academic colleague as EDI Officer, the establishment of a new EDI
 Committee (co-chaired by the EDI Officer and Deputy Head, and with the Head as a member),
 to ensure that the EDI agenda is embedded in the Department’s governance. The EDI
 Committee adopts EDI objectives annually and supports the provision of EDI training for all staff,
 including mandatory sessions for new starters. EDI issues are a regular item at our annual Away
 Days.

 EDI considerations are included in the Department’s Recruitment Statement (reviewed
 annually), are a standing item for our Recruitment Working Group (a subgroup of SPC that
 considers recruitment strategy) meetings, and our EDI Officer is a member of SPC (which take
 all recruitment decisions). Shortlisting and interview panels are all required to have undertaken
 unconscious bias training. We ensure diversity in the composition of panels, with the gender
 breakdown of each panel being reported to the School. The recruitment process, including the
 questions asked in interviews, is reviewed annually by the Head in light of feedback from the EDI
 Committee.

 As part of our commitment to EDI, non-professorial staff are fully engaged in departmental
 governance. Our SPC and Research Committee have two representative posts for non-
 professorial staff, selection to which takes gender balance and ethnicity into consideration. The
 Department promotes inclusivity by encouraging colleagues to take part in departmental
 meetings and seminars and through sympathetically timetabled faculty events.

 EDI considerations are also prioritised in staff development processes. The Professorial Staffing
 Sub-Committee (responsible for carrying out annual CDR meetings) must have at least a 33%
 female professorial membership; currently it has four female Professors and three male
 Professors. Its annual meeting before the CDR process considers EDI issues, including staff
 survey results, while the completed CDR process, and any emerging EDI issues, inform
 departmental planning. EDI considerations are also integral to the annual deliberations of the
 Law Professors on promotions. We ensure female representation on the three-reader panel that
 reads the work of any candidate for promotion to Professor. We seek, so far as is possible, to

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ensure that an equal number of men and women are considered. Cognisant that we cannot
 necessarily achieve this on a year-by-year basis, we monitor the medium and long-term trends
 of the staff who are put forward and promoted. Reflecting on the data gathered since 2014, we
 notice no disparities in the success of male and female colleagues. As previously noted,
 promotion is not based on application – all colleagues are considered.

 Crucially, we operate a transparent and equitable work allocation model with a maximum of 120
 hours teaching p/a, but offer flexible working conditions, taking special care to ensure that
 activities fit around caring responsibilities. In order that recent parents can re-establish their
 research trajectory, we operate a research leave scheme following parental leave. So far, nine
 terms have been taken with a further two expected in Lent term of 20/21, benefitting 10
 individuals (one repeat). We have also supported 10 terms’ worth of unpaid leave where
 requested, to take up external posts or a career break for six individuals.

 EDI considerations are integral to our research community more generally. For example: EDI
 implications must be addressed in research grant applications to our Research Committee and
 reviewed by the Committee (e.g. balance of conference panels/chairs); our Events and
 Communications Team ensure all LSE research events are balanced (consistent with the
 School’s policy of having 40% representation from either gender); and our Visiting Professors in
 Practice Working Group has been successful in ensuring diversity, with a good gender balance
 and a number of BAME colleagues appointed over the review period.

 Finally, the Department has ensured that it adhered to the guidance in the School’s REF Code of
 Practice on using EDI factors in its choice of both Outputs and Impact Case Studies.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 External research grant awards

 To enable colleagues to realise their potential to produce world-leading scholarship, the
 Department ring-fences research time and provides the administrative and resource support
 needed for research. Most of our colleagues find this sufficient for their needs without seeking
 major externally funded research grants, and much of our externally generated research grant
 income is for relatively modest amounts. Nevertheless, over the review period, we have, on
 average, generated over £500k in external research income annually, yielding a total of almost
 £3.6m. This is a threefold increase on the £1.1m figure over the previous REF period.

 Our grants have been won from a wide range of funders including the major UK research
 councils (AHRC, ESRC, British Academy, Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council
 (EPSRC)), major charitable funders (Leverhulme Trust, Royal Society, the Open Society
 Foundation, and the American Council of Learned Societies), several European Union sources
 (European Research Council (ERC), European Commission, European Parliament), and various
 governmental agencies (Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO), Department for International
 Development (DFID), Royal Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Swiss Federal Department of
 Foreign Affairs).

 Of particular note are: the grants won by Chinkin from AHRC, ESRC and ERC to advance her
 projects on a gendered international law of peace and establishing a Gender, Justice and
 Security Hub in conjunction with her role as Director of our Centre for Women, Peace and
 Security; the research grants obtained by Beyani from the Norwegian Refugee Council and
 Swiss Federal Department of Foreign Affairs in support of his UN role as Special Rapporteur on
 Internally-Displaced Migrants; Thambisetty’s research grant from the European Commission for
 her work on the intellectual property aspects of a scientific project on bio-diversity; and the Philip
 Leverhulme Prize won by Roberts in 2014-15 to support her work on international law.

 In 2020, Summers received grants totalling £226k (£20k from LSE’s Covid-19 seed-fund, £100k
 from the Atlantic Foundation for Social and Economic Equity, and £106k from ESRC as part of

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UKRI’s Covid-19 rapid response funding scheme) for a project, in conjunction with a tax barrister
 and an economist, relating to the design of a wealth tax for the UK. An initial report, available at
 www.ukwealth.tax, has received extensive media coverage (e.g. The Sunday Times and The
 Guardian) and the final report, The Report of the UK Wealth Tax Commission, launched on 9
 December 2020, was covered by all major media outlets.

 Knowledge exchange and impact awards

 Faculty members have made a number of successful bids to the School to support projects from
 the higher education innovation fund (HEIF) and which are designed to enable academics to
 work with business, public bodies, and third sector organisations to exchange knowledge and
 increase the economic and social benefit from their research work. Projects in receipt of funding
 include: a project on international comparative legal risk operated through our Financial Markets
 Project in 2013-14; a project led by Jackson which was designed to raise awareness of social
 egg freezing (2015-16); a project on tackling violence against women and girls led by Chinkin
 (2015-16); a project on Northern Irish feminist judgement led by McCandless (2016-17); and a
 project on the fair and equitable use of genetic resources led by Thambisetty (2018-19).

 Illustrative is Jackson’s project, called Timeless. This used novel public engagement techniques
 to educate the public about egg freezing and fertility issues in general, including the use of a
 pop-up “shop” in Old Street Underground Station aimed at communicating the facts around egg
 freezing in a visually arresting way to inform women of the issues around social egg freezing.
 Visited by over 1,000 people across six days, Timeless was widely covered in the media,
 including as cover feature of The Observer Magazine and live broadcasts on BBC Radio and
 Sky News.

 The School has also supported the work of the Department by awarding £20k from central funds
 to assist in the funding of the salary of a departmental Communications post with the specific
 remit of enhancing the department’s KEI work.

 Investing in the next generation of scholars

 In furtherance of our commitment to support the next generation of scholars, we ensure that all
 doctoral students admitted to our programme enjoy the benefits of being fully funded. As noted
 in the section on training and supervision of PGR students, some students win AHRC and ESRC
 awards and several win School studentships. But in addition, the Department invests in the
 region of £300-350k per year in studentships funded from our own resources.

 The Department has invested its Research Infrastructure and Investment Fund in supporting
 workshops for doctoral students, based on competitive national and international applications, in
 the fields of public law (2014) and EU law (2014 and 2017). Further, since 2017 we have
 established, together with colleagues from WZB Berlin and EUI Florence, a European Junior
 Faculty Forum for Public Law and Jurisprudence, at which junior colleagues are invited, through
 a competitive process, to participate in a workshop devoted to the discussion of their work with
 senior scholars; this forum ran successfully in Berlin (2017), Florence (2018) and London (2019),
 though, owing to the pandemic, it was postponed in 2020.

 Over the review period the department has hosted and mentored three British Academy Post-
 Doctoral Fellows: Dr Mara Malagodi (2012-15), Dr Davor Jancic (2013-15) and Dr Joana Setzer
 (2016-2019).

 Support structures and facilities

 The Department has benefitted from access to internal seed funding, provided by the School’s
 Research Infrastructure and Investment Fund, and the Research Development Panel’s seed
 fund. These funds allowed colleagues such as Chinkin and Summers to produce successful pilot


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 results that ultimately led to further research income capture (as mentioned above)
 and ground-breaking research outputs.

 One-to-one support is provided by our Grant Applications Manager (GAM) for expert guidance
 and advice on income generation, as well as provision of training in grant-writing and
 management. A past mock interview delivered by the GAM for an ERC starting grant applicant
 was well-received and the individual went on to be successful. Additionally, the Department’s
 Research Committee supports colleagues by providing guidance through mentoring by
 colleagues with a track record of success for those contemplating applying for external grant
 income.

 The Department also benefits from its own specialist Academic Support Librarian who provides
 advice and support on information sources and discovery, scholarly communication issues,
 including copyright and compliance with open access mandate requirements, reference
 management tools, and the measurement of research impact through citation analysis and
 application of bibliometric techniques.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Faculty members, with the active support of the Department, have participated extensively in
 research collaborations, locally, nationally or internationally, some of which have been illustrated
 in earlier sections. Those provide only a sample of the extent to which the Department has
 sought to enhance the research base and contributed to a better understanding of economy and
 society. These world-leading achievements, and their impact, are attested in many ways. This
 section provides an overview of the extent of that contribution and of the research perspectives
 that inform this.

                         CONTRIBUTIONS TO ECONOMY AND SOCIETY

 That our research and scholarship advance the School’s mission of promoting ‘the betterment of
 society’ is attested in many ways:

 Authorship of reports for governmental bodies and other stakeholders

 Several faculty members have been involved in the preparation of reports evaluating public and
 private policies. For instance, Cranston led the efforts resulting in the adoption of The Cranston
 Review (2019) and the Cranston Re-Review Panel Recommendations (2020) on the HBOS
 bank fraud. Cranston also chaired the committee that produced the report on Immigration and
 Asylum Appeals – a Fresh Look (2018). As part of her involvement in the activities of the OECD,
 Dunne wrote two reports: Structural separation in regulated industries: Report on implementing
 the OECD Recommendation (2016); and Implications of E-commerce for Competition Policy
 (2018). Paech chaired the EU Commission Expert Group on Regulatory Obstacles to Financial
 Innovation which produced Thirty Recommendations on Regulation, Innovation and Finance
 (2019). Finally, Schuster co-authored a Study on the law applicable to companies for the
 European Commission (2016).

 Some reports have directly informed legislation. Over the review period, Beyani’s reports and
 draft bills have proved instrumental in the adoption of measures protecting internally displaced
 persons in several African countries. In 2019 Lynskey co-authored a report, prepared on behalf
 of the Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada, on Delivering Effective Data Protection: An
 International Comparative Survey, which was followed by a Commonwealth Model Law on Data
 Protection. Scott has written two reports on defamation law for official bodies in Northern Ireland:
 Defamation Law in Northern Ireland (2014) and Reform of Defamation Law in Northern Ireland
 (2016). Rossner authored two reports for the Ministry of Justice: Rossner and McCurdy 2018,
 Video Hearings: A Process Evaluation (2018); Rossner and McCurdy, Video Hearings Process
 Evaluation, Phase 2 (2020).


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Expert evidence

 Colleagues’ participation in legislative and policy making is manifested in frequent invitations to
 provide expert evidence, including the following examples. Heyvaert provided evidence before
 the House of Lords on State aid, the level playing field and environmental protection in the
 context of the EU-UK trade negotiations (2020) and before the European Parliament (ENVI
 Committee) on the environmental law implications of the EU-UK trade negotiations (2020).
 Ibanez Colomo was invited to an evidence-gathering exercise before the UK government’s
 Digital Competition Expert Panel (2018). He has also acted as Non-Governmental Adviser to the
 UK Competition and Markets Authority since 2016. Kleinheisterkamp was invited to submit
 evidence on investor protection in the hearing on The Free Trade Agreements of the EU
 organised by the Parliament of Austria in 2016. Lynskey provided evidence before the Houses of
 Parliament Joint Committee on Human Rights on the implications of the government’s response
 to COVID-19 (2020). Moloney was Special Adviser to the House of Lords Inquiry, Reform of the
 EU Financial Regulatory Framework (2014-15). Murray has taken part in similar exercises
 before the Commission on Justice in Wales (2018), in addition to being appointed Special
 Adviser to the House of Lords Inquiry, The Internet: To Regulate or Not to Regulate (2018-19).

 Involvement in consulting or advisory bodies

 Faculty members take part in governmental and inter-governmental advisory bodies. In 2018,
 Baistrocchi was appointed co-ordinator of the Architecture of the International Financial System
 Working Group in the context of the G20 summit of that year. Beyani was appointed a member
 of the UN Advisory Expert Group to the UN Secretary General’s High-Level Panel on Internal
 Displacement in 2019 and to the UN Fact Finding Commission to Libya in 2020. Chinkin was
 appointed to the Human Rights Advisory Panel established by the Special Representative of the
 United Nations’ Secretary-General in Kosovo. Gearty has advised the Commission on Justice in
 Wales and the Minister of Justice’s Court Reform Project. Howell has served as a member of the
 European Securities and Markets Authority’s Corporate Finance Standing Committee. Paterson
 is a member of the technical committee of the Insolvency Lawyers Association. Jackson’s
 appointments include her role in the Ministerial Advisory Panel on One Chance to Get it Right,
 advising on implementation of the new NHS end of life care strategy (2014-15). Lynskey is a
 member of the EU Commission’s GDPR Multi-stakeholder Expert Group. Moloney sits in the
 advisory Academic Committee of the European Capital Markets Institute (2019-) and the
 advisory Scientific Council of Better Finance (2019-) and has served on the advisory
 Stakeholder Group of the European Securities and Markets Authority (2011-16). Murray has
 advised the Department for Culture, Media and Sport’s’ Digital Regulation and Digital Strategy
 teams on the need for a digital regulator. We also note Thambisetty’s membership of the Expert
 Group on a Sustainable Ocean Economy and appointment as Legal Adviser to the Fiji
 delegation to the UN IGC3, and as Advisor to the Office of the Pacific Ocean Commissioner for
 support to the Pacific Island Developing States in UN negotiations under UNCLOS; and
 Voyiakis’ appointment as an external expert to the Cyprus Agency of Quality Assurance and
 Accreditation in Higher Education.

 Research collaboration with non-academic partners

 Kershaw has acted as a consultant for the Purposeful Company Task Force, set up with the
 support of the Bank of England, which aims at transforming British business through the creation
 of companies focused on creating long-term value and serving society’s needs.

 Two colleagues (Lynskey on data protection; Ibanez Colomo on competition law) have taken
 part in the research activities of the XXIX FIDE Congress in the Hague, which discusses
 research produced jointly by academics, judges and civil servants from the EU and its Member
 States.

 Simpson leads a multi-year project, funded by the Australian Research Council (ARC), called
 ‘Cold War International Law’, which involves cooperation with the Georgian Ministry for Foreign

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Affairs and the Tbilisi Writers House (formerly the Soviet Writers House). A book, The Cold War
 and International Law, has just been published with CUP and a monograph entitled Lawful
 Interregnum is forthcoming with CUP.

 Major lectures
 Staff members frequently deliver lectures to governmental and inter-governmental bodies
 domestically and abroad. These includes lectures given by Braithwaite to HM Treasury lawyers
 (2019); Cutts to officials at the Ministry of Justice, High Court and Judicial College on smart
 contracts/cryptocurrencies (2019); and Peay to the Sentencing Council on England and Wales
 (2018).

 Lectures overseas include those delivered by Howell at the Hong Kong Securities and Futures
 Commission on Brexit and fund regulation; Ibanez Colomo to the competition agencies of
 Argentina (2018), Mexico (2019) and Spain (2019).

 Professional service

 Several staff members are involved in advisory work deriving from their research. Jackson, for
 example, is a member of the British Medical Association Medical Ethics Committee and Moloney
 is a member of the Board of Appeals of the European Supervisory Authorities and an
 independent director of the Board of the Central Bank of Ireland. Chinkin and Gearty are
 academic members of Matrix Chambers, Spooner is a door tenant of Forum Chambers and
 Paterson is Senior Consultant to Slaughter & May. In 2020 Kleinheisterkamp was appointed, by
 the UK, to the ICSID Panel of Conciliators of the World Bank (2020-26). Our engagement with
 practitioners includes our success with the Inner Temple Academic Fellowship Scheme, which
 ‘aims to recognise the outstanding contribution of legal teaching and research of early to mid-
 career academics to the Bar of England and Wales’ to which three Fellows have been appointed
 during the review period (Braithwaite, Cutts, and Rowan).

 In these and other capacities, colleagues have participated in some notable cases. Chinkin was
 a member of the Legal Team representing the Republic of the Marshall Islands in Obligations
 concerning Negotiations relating to Cessation of the Nuclear Arms Race and to Nuclear
 Disarmament before the International Court of Justice, 2016; was Legal Advisor to the Council of
 Europe Drafting Committee on Recommendation on Preventing and Combating Sexism,
 Recommendation CM/Rec(2019)1 adopted by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of
 Europe, 27 March 2019; and was an expert witness invited by the Inter-American Commission
 on Human Rights in the cases of Claudina Isabel Velasquez Paiz v. Guatemala (2015) and
 Linda Loaiza López Soto v. Venezuela (2018). Kleinheisterkamp has acted as an international
 Arbitrator in numerous cases, including as chair in an US$ 850 million dispute involving a state
 over concessions for building and operating a new port in an African country (2020).

 Cranston has sat as a part-time judge in the Commercial Court and Administrative Court since
 joining the Department. Some judgments of note include Cameron v Liverpool Victoria Insurance
 Co Ltd [2017] EWCA Civ 366; [2018] 1 WLR 657; R (Palestine Solidarity Campaign Ltd) v
 Secretary of State for Housing, Communities and Local Government [2017] EWHC 1502,
 (Admin), [2017] 1 WLR 4611; and King v Environment Agency [2017] EWHC 733(Admin), [2018]
 Env. L.R. 19.

 Court citations

 Our colleagues’ research has been cited in many courts, including:

 UK Supreme Court: Lobban in Belhaj v Straw [2017] UKSC 3. Supreme Court of Canada:
 Collins in Fraser v Canada, 2020 SCC 28; Duxbury in Canada (Minister of Citizenship and
 Immigration) v Vavilov, 2019 SCC 65. Court of Justice of the EU: Ibanez Colomo in Case C-
 228/18 Budapest Bank EU:C:2019:678, Case C-179/16 F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd
 EU:C:2017:714; Lynskey in Case C-660/15 P Viasat Broadcasting UK EU:C:2016:854, Case C-

                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 40/17 Fashion ID EU:C:2018:1039 and C-673/17 Planet 49 EU:C:2019:246; Moloney in Case C-
 270/12 UK v European Parliament and Council EU:C:2013:562; Case C-658/15 Robeco
 Hollands Bezit and Others EU:C:2017:304; and Schuster in Case C-47/14 Holterman Ferho
 Exploitatie BV EU:C:2015:574; Case C‑272/18 Verein für Konsumenteninformation
 EU:C:2019:679 and Case C‑469/19 All in One Star Ltd EU:C:2020:822. US Supreme Court:
 Duxbury in Ramos v Louisiana, 590 U.S. ___ (2020); Austrian Supreme Court: Schuster in OGH
 6 Ob 196/14p, 31 July 2015; OGH 6 Ob 60/17t, 29. May 2017; and OGH 6 Ob 66/17z, 29. May
 2017.

 Court of Appeal of England and Wales: Cutts in Lloyd v Google [2019] EWCA 1599; Duxbury in
 Regina (Youngsam) v Parole Board [2019] EWCA Civ 229; Scott in Butt v Secretary of State for
 the Home Department [2019] EWCA Civ 933. Other courts of appeal: Duxbury in Gett v Tabet,
 [2009] NSWCA 76.

 Other courts: Duxbury in Cere v AG of Canada 2019 FC 221, HOOPP Realty Inc v Guarantee
 Company of North America 2018 ABQB 634; Ibanez Colomo in Hong Kong Competition
 Commission v W Hing Construction Co Ltd (No 2) [2019] 3 HKLRD 46; Scott in Barron MP v
 Collins MEP [2015] EWHC 1125, Wasserman v Freilich [2016] EWHC 312, and Zarb-Cousin v
 Association of British Bookmakers [2018] EWHC 2240.

 Citations in major reports (governments and international organisations)

 Colleagues’ work has also been cited in a variety of official reports, including:

 UK Reports
 Peay in Law Commission, Unfitness to Plead. Vol 1: Report (2016); Scott in Scottish Law
 Commission Report on Defamation (2017); Owusu-Bempah in Lord Bracadale, Independent
 Review of Hate Crime Legislation in Scotland (2018); Judge Desmond Marrinan, Hate Crime
 Legislation in Northern Ireland: An Independent Review, Consultation Paper (2020) and Law
 Commission, Hate Crime Laws: A Consultation Paper (2020).

 International Reports
 Horder in Australian Law Reform Commission, Final Report on Corporate Criminal
 Responsibility (2020); Humphreys in Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, Special
 Report on Global Warming of 1.5°C and Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (Fifth
 Assessment Report, Working Group III, Chapter 4) (2018); Ibanez Colomo in OECD, Line of
 Business Restrictions (2020); Scott in Law Commission of Ontario, Defamation Law in the
 Internet Age (2020); Schuster in European Commission, Assessment and quantification of
 drivers, problems and impacts related to cross-border transfers of registered offices and cross-
 border divisions of companies (2018), European Commission, Study on minority shareholders
 protection (2018); and European Commission, Study on Blockchains: Legal, Governance and
 Interoperability Aspects (2020).

                           CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE RESEARCH BASE

 That our research and scholarship make a major contribution to advancing the research base on
 which any contribution to the betterment of society must be founded is also attested in several
 ways:

 Academic cooperation and research networks

 Internal research networks

 The Department leads and supports cross-disciplinary research within the LSE. Several staff
 members are closely involved in these activities. Braithwaite and Micheler participate in the work
 of the ESRC-funded Systemic Risk Centre. Kershaw sits in the management board of the
 School’s Marshall Institute. Lacey and Summers are members of the International Inequalities

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institute. Lacey was also the co-director of the HEIF-funded Commission on Gender Inequality
 and Power (2015) and Murray was a commissioner of the LSE Truth, Trust and Technology
 Commission (2017-18).

 Cross-institutional research projects and networks

 Colleagues also take part in research projects with other institutions. Baistrocchi has led the
 Global Tax Symposium, which brings together leading institutions (including the Chinese
 University of Hong Kong, the University of Melbourne and New York University). Jackson is
 involved, as Partner Investigator, in an Australian Research Council grant on Forming Families
 Inside and Outside of Law’s Reach. She is, alongside Auckland, also a member of the Medical
 Law Network with academics from Oxford, Bristol, and LSE. The Australian Research Council-
 funded Cold War International Law Project, led by Simpson, is a cooperative effort with the
 University of Melbourne and SOAS. Simpson is also the co-director of the International Law and
 Literature Research Group (NYU, Columbia, LSE).

 Other faculty members take part in the activities of external research centres. Flessas is a
 member of Cambridge’s Heritage Research Group. Lynskey is a research associate in the Law,
 Science, Technology & Society Research Group at VUB Brussels and of Cambridge’s Centre for
 Intellectual Property and Information Law. Micheler is a member of Oxford’s Digital Assets
 Project. Moloney is a member of Cambridge’s Project on Governance of Financial Market
 Infrastructures. She has also participated in the European Company Law Expert Group and in
 Bocconi University’s ECB Legal Research Programme. Other collaborations include Peay’s role
 in the Fitness to Plead Study (LSE, UCL, Institute of Psychiatry); Spooner’s membership of the
 Collaborative Research Network on Household Finance of the Law & Society Association; and
 Trotter’s involvement in the Cross-University Family Law seminar series (Cambridge, Oxford,
 Birkbeck, Reading and UCL).

 Enhancing the research base through academic publication

 Peer-reviewed journals

 Almost half of our colleagues are involved in the editing of leading peer-reviewed legal journals.
 Some of them serve as editors-in-chief or general editors. These include Heyvaert (Founder and
 General Editor, Transnational Environmental Law); Humphreys (General Editor, London Review
 of International Law); Kershaw (General Editor, Modern Law Review), Ibanez Colomo (General
 Editor, Journal of European Competition Law & Practice); de Witte (Editor-in-Chief, German Law
 Journal); Collins (Founding Editor, European Review of Contract Law).

 Other colleagues involved as editors include Blackwell (case note editor, British Tax Review);
 Dunne (Journal of Competition Law & Economics, World Competition); Humphreys (Journal of
 Human Rights and the Environment); Lobban (Journal of Legal History); Lynskey (International
 Data Privacy Law); Moloney (European Business Organisation Law Review); Murray (Law,
 Innovation and Technology); Gerry Simpson (London Review of International Law). In addition,
 several colleagues serve on the Modern Law Review. In addition, colleagues are involved as
 members of editorial or advisory boards of more than twenty other journals.

 Book series editorships

 Colleagues also promote scholarship through editorial responsibilities on monograph series,
 including: Collins (International Studies in the Theory of Private Law, Hart Publishing);
 Humphreys (LSE International Studies Series, CUP); Lobban (Cambridge Studies in Legal
 History); Loughlin (OUP’s Constitutional Theory; Routledge’s Law and Politics: Continental
 Perspectives); Moloney (CUP’s International Corporate Law and Financial Market Regulation
 Series); Peay (OUP’s Clarendon Studies in Criminology); Poole (Cambridge Studies in
 Constitutional Law); and Salomon (Elgar Studies in Human Rights).


                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    RECOGNITION OF CONTRIBUTIONS TO ECONOMY, SOCIETY AND RESEARCH BASE

 Our contributions to economy, society and the research base has been recognised in many
 ways, including:

 Queen’s honours

 Four of our female Professors have been awarded Queen’s honours for their outstanding
 contributions to the advancement of law, society and economy: Black, CBE for services to law
 and regulation (2020); Chinkin, Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George (CMG)
 (2017) for services to advancing women’s human rights worldwide; Jackson, OBE for services to
 higher education (2017); and Lacey, CBE for services to Law, Justice and Gender Politics
 (2017).

 Honorary Doctorates

 Honorary Doctorates awarded during the review period include Chinkin, European University
 Institute (2018); Cranston, University of Greenwich (2017) and Australian National University
 (2018); Gearty, Sacred Heart University (2014) and University College Dublin (2014); Lacey,
 University of Edinburgh (2018); Loughlin, University of Edinburgh (2015); Moloney, University of
 Zurich (2019); Collins, Aristotle University, Thessaloniki (2019).

 Learned societies

 Thirteen colleagues serve as Fellows of the British Academy (Black, Chinkin, Collins, Cranston,
 Duxbury, Gearty, Horder, Jackson, Lacey, Lobban, Loughlin, Moloney, Simpson). In addition,
 Loughlin was a member of the Council (2014-15), and Black and Gearty are, respectively
 President-elect and Vice-President (Social Sciences) elect. Lobban is a Fellow of the Royal
 Historical Society, Secretary of the Selden Society and a member of the Board of Directors,
 American Society for Legal History; Murray is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts; Gearty is a
 Fellow of the Royal Irish Academy; Lacey is an Honorary Fellow of New College Oxford and
 University College Oxford; and Collins is an honorary fellow of Pembroke College, Oxford.

 Awards and prizes

 Among the many honours colleagues have received for their work are: Bomhoff, Peter Birks
 Prize for Outstanding Legal Scholarship – Second Prize (Society of Legal Scholars, 2015);
 Chinkin, Sir Brian Urquhart Award for distinguished service to the UN by a UK citizen (2016);
 Cutts, Wedderburn Prize (Modern Law Review, 2017); Ibanez Colomo, Academic Excellence
 Award (Global Competition Review, 2019); Jackson, the ‘Basis of Medicine’ Book Award (British
 Medical Association, 2017) and Inner Temple Book Prize, runner-up (2015). Other recipients
 include Loughlin, Crick Prize for best article in Political Quarterly (2019); Picinali, Annual Essay
 Prize (Journal of Applied Philosophy, 2016); and Rowan, Inner Temple Book Prize – New
 Authors’ Prize, runner-up (2015). Murray was invited to deliver the Annual TMC Asser Lecture in
 2020.

 Visiting Professorships

 Our colleagues have been appointed as visiting professors at many overseas institutions,
 including Cranston, University of Queensland (annually since 2017); Duxbury, University of
 Virginia (annually since 2014); Heyvaert, Kotelawala Defence University (2015, Moragoda Chair
 of Public International Law); Horder, Peking University Law School (since 2018, Global Law
 Faculty); Ibanez Colomo, College of Europe Bruges (annually since 2016), Instituto Tecnológico
 Autónomo de México (2019), Aix-Marseille (2019), Torcuato di Tella (2019); Jackson, University
 of Technology, Sydney (2016); Kleinheisterkamp, Cornell Law School (2015-16, as Berger and
 Clarke Visiting Scholar); Loughlin, University of Pennsylvania Law School (2014), Renmin

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University of China (2014), Paris 2 Panthéon Assas (2016, as holder of the Chaire Michel Villey);
 Lynskey, College of Europe Bruges (annually since 2019); Möller, University of Sao Paulo
 (2015); Moloney, University of Zurich UZH (2016), Columbia Law School (2014); Murray, Vrije
 Universiteit Amsterdam (annually since 2014), Sciences Po (2015 and 2017); Paech, University
 of Frankfurt (2016-19); Poole, Paris 2 Panthéon Assas (2013-15), Auckland University (2016),
 University of Western Australia (2017).

 Research Fellowships

 Visiting research fellowships held by colleagues in the review period include: Blackwell, UNSW
 (2019); Flessas, Kent Law School (2019); Howell, Max Planck Institute, Hamburg (2019);
 Humphreys, UNSW (2016); Jackson, UCL Institute for Women’s Health (2017-); Lacey, Hauser
 Global Law School, NYU (2014) and ANU (2020); Loughlin, University of Edinburgh (2019) and
 Freiburg Institute of Advanced Studies (2016-17); Möller, Czech Academy of Sciences (2015-
 16); Salomon, EUI (2017-18).

 Book symposia

 Torcuato di Tella University organised a workshop in 2018 on Ibanez Colomo’s The Shaping of
 EU Competition Law (2018). Loughlin’s Foundations of Public Law was the subject of a
 conference at National University of Singapore in 2015, the proceedings of which were
 published as Wilkinson & Dowdle (eds), Questioning the Foundations of Public Law (Hart 2018).
 Voyiakis’s monograph Private Law and the Value of Choice was the subject of a 2019
 symposium published in Jurisprudence. Balliol College organised a seminar in May 2016 on
 Webb’s Reason and Restitution.




                                                                                          Page 19
