Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: The Open University

 Unit of Assessment: D31 Religious Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1. Unit context

 The UOA’s commitment to making a distinctive contribution to academic and public
 understanding of religion is encapsulated in our strapline “contemporary religion in historical
 perspective”. This phrase expresses both the coherence and the diversity of our research and
 teaching community. It informs our shared research focus on the experiences of religious
 communities and individuals in everyday and material contexts – or “lived religion”. We are a
 collegial UOA with an established research culture of teamwork and collaboration consonant
 with the OU’s internationally distinctive teaching and learning profile.

 Eleven staff (9.1 FTE) are being submitted. Investment in the UOA during the census period has
 enabled us to increase our staff numbers (despite retirements) and to deploy a wide range of
 methods in engagement with diverse religious communities and stakeholders. Staff and PGRS
 have been recruited and supported to contribute their specific interests and skills to a UOA
 determined to make a distinctive impact on critical religious literacy (the ability to reflect critically
 on intersections of lived religion and social life) in and beyond academia. Colleagues are
 provided with time and mentoring to pursue opportunities to use the OU’s unique channels for
 public engagement, such as the free OpenLearn platform, and our distinctive links to the BBC
 and FutureLearn, to make our research available to large public audiences. We have engaged
 with schools, media, charities, religious communities and policy makers. We make leading
 contributions to our discipline internationally.

 UOA staff are primarily located in the School of Social Sciences and Global Studies (SSGS) in
 the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences (FASS). An additional colleague with expertise in Islam
 joins us from the Faculty of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM). This
 intra- and cross-faculty context gives us a breadth of support specific to the sub-fields (e.g.,
 history, social science, information studies) of the discipline, enhancing our engagement with a
 range of key disciplinary and trans-disciplinary networks, approaches, methods and debates.

 1.2 Unit Structure

 Since REF2014 we have made increasing use of our “contemporary religion in historical
 perspective” strapline in our conferences, webpages and blog to emphasise the overall
 coherence of the UOA’s varied research interests in rich dialogues between approaches to and
 analyses of historical and contemporary phenomena. Research by Beattie, Maiden and Wolffe
 advance academic and public understanding of modern religious history and its contemporary
 implications for local, national and global affairs. Ali, Bowman, Harvey, Nita, Newcombe,
 Robertson, Sinclair and Tremlett advance religious literacy in contemporary arenas through
 engagement with lived religion in relation to historical antecedents. All colleagues are
 encouraged to develop both individual expertise in specific areas of research and to lead or
 participate in collaborative research networks. This approach has enabled us to enrich scholarly
 debate in both historical and contemporary contexts – illustrated by recognition of our
 contributions to understanding phenomena as diverse as anti-Catholicism, Indigeneity,
 environmental and social justice activism, pilgrimage and Islamic philosophies. Alongside
 published outputs, our research feeds into knowledge exchange and our teaching materials.
 This combination of a research-base focused on historical and contemporary data and debates
 with the OU’s established model of distance learning and teaching drives our contributions to
 religious literacy in and beyond academia.

 The UOA’s research, knowledge exchange (KE) and impact strategy activities are overseen by a
 Research Lead (RL), reporting to the Head of Discipline (HoD) to ensure cohesion and to

                                                                                                    Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 coordinate staff development and workload management. The RL role includes facilitating the
 UOA’s REF Steering Group (see Section 2.4), drafting REF documentation, and organising
 residential UOA team days. These have run regularly through the assessment period (8-11 May
 and 13-16 November 2019); events planned for April and November 2020 were adapted to work
 online. We use these for strategy planning and development, peer review of draft outputs and
 funding bids and individualised support: for example, writing breaks to finalise outputs and/or
 develop bids. The RL (Harvey) leads discussion of research matters – e.g., Post-Graduate
 Research Student (PGRS) supervision and progress, seminar and conference organisation,
 funding opportunities, and KE activities – at monthly UOA meetings. The RL is also the UOA’s
 PGRS Convener with responsibilities for responding to enquiries, chairing interview processes,
 and supporting PGRS and supervisors. These functions also involve regular cross-school and
 cross-faculty collaboration to ensure coherence and best practice. The UOA’s Social Media
 Lead (Robertson) coordinates our departmental webpages and open access public
 engagement through our blog (see below) and social media feeds.

 1.3 Research and impact strategy
 We have continued to pursue the strategic aims set out in our REF2014 submission. In summary
 these were:
     a. to make a substantial and distinctive contribution to academic and public understanding
        of religion through critical analysis of the concept itself and through the promotion of
        religious literacy for people’s personal or professional lives
     b. to sustain and grow PGRS numbers
     c. to maintain and enhance our internal and external collaborations, KE and impact
        achievements
     d. to maximise the synergies between our research, curriculum and teaching
     e. to raise our profile internationally, including through strategic use of our blog and of
        unique OU channels for dissemination and KE.

 Highlights of our successes for each of the above points include:
    a. 5 monographs, 13 edited books, 4 special issues of peer reviewed journals, 64 book
        chapters, 48 peer reviewed journal articles, 76 blog posts, 19 encyclopaedia entries, 34
        articles for the new edition of the Oxford Dictionary of the Christian Church. Our
        FutureLearn MOOC “Why Religion Matters” (see 1.6) offered Continuing Professional
        Development (CPD) to police, civil servants, teachers, journalists, council workers and
        other professionals
    b. 7 PGRS funded and provided with additional training opportunities through the AHRC-
        funded Consortium for the Humanities and Arts South East England [CHASE] and Open
        Oxford Cambridge [OOC] DTPs and the ESRC Grand Union DTP; and post-award
        PGRS mentored to gain positions relevant to their research interests (examples at 2.2)
    c. achieving promotions and permanent contracts related to colleagues’ participation in
        research and KE/impact projects in collaboration with more senior colleagues in and
        beyond the UOA and with a wide range of religious and other communities, significantly
        including school students and teachers (see sections 2 and 4)
    d. delivering research-informed module material to enhance undergraduate learning
        opportunities
    e. hosting a well-received blog (viewed more than 18,400 times in 2020, with 40% of those
        views within the UK, 25% from the USA and 12% from continental Europe), contributing
        to leadership in national and international learned societies (see section 4) and adding to
        our suite of freely accessible educational material through the OU’s OpenLearn channel.

 1.4 Facilitation of impact

 As stated in our REF2014 impact statement, our approach to the study of religion is a non-
 confessional one – we do not seek directly to influence the specifically religious beliefs and
 activities of the groups with which we engage. Rather, we aim to have impact through promoting
 an informed critical awareness among religious practitioners, policymakers and the general
 public of the cultural and social contexts of historical and contemporary religion(s), and by

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 helping religious organisations to develop their thinking about key issues such as community
 engagement, social justice, heritage management and legal recognition. To that end, we have
 further developed our strong sustainable relationships with the religious groups engaged by our
 research and KE activities. We have included practitioners, policymakers, teachers, media and
 other interested people among those presenting and responding in the seminars and
 conferences we have hosted in Milton Keynes, London, Belfast and Edinburgh. We have
 encouraged academic–practitioner partnerships through postgraduate research. Through
 dissemination of accessible outcomes in publications and social media, and good use of the
 OU’s OpenLearn platform and its relationships with the BBC and FutureLearn, we have enabled
 students and wider publics to engage with our research and improve religious literacy.

 We have selected our two ICSs to demonstrate the success of our engagement with
 “contemporary religion in historical perspective” and our contribution to public understanding of
 religion. The ICSs also illustrate our activities in the four UK nations. The first presents Wolffe’s
 and Maiden’s impact on the development of religious archives, on community engagement with
 religious history, and on the promotion of religious literacy. The second presents Harvey’s
 impact among emergent animist ritual groups in the UK (with events in, e.g., Orkney, Anglesey
 and the New Forest) and in North America, and on the creation of art installations in Germany
 and Finland, transmitting and brokering new understandings of animism and ontology. Impact
 has arisen from KE activities built into research design with such groups, e.g., conversations
 with and presentations to individuals and groups and the sharing of current academic research
 findings. Section 4 elaborates further impact of the UOA’s research and KE.

 Our successes arise from encouraging, supporting, mentoring and (where relevant) funding
 colleagues and PGRS to build KE and impact activities into their research from the outset. They
 are underpinned by the UOA’s commitment to making our research accessible, in collaboration
 with communities, through social media, and through the OU’s OpenLearn platform and its close
 relationship with the BBC and FutureLearn. Impact training, advice and evidence gathering is
 supported by faculty research offices. Good practice is shared between UOAs and informs
 guidance provided to colleagues during UOA meetings and away days.

 1.5 Interdisciplinary research

 Our contributions to core disciplinary priorities are matched by our commitment to
 interdisciplinarity which we see as a defining research practice of the study of religions. Our
 expertise in historical, sociological, ethnographic and folkloric methods aids our engagement
 with colleagues beyond RS. Within the OU, for example, Newcombe joined the steering group
 responsible for developing the new Global Challenges and Social Justice Research Centre
 within the School of Social Sciences and Global Studies (SSGS) in 2020, and Harvey joined its
 professorial advisory group. Beattie, Maiden, Nita and Tremlett have all contributed to the
 School’s “Perspectives on the Global” seminar series. Within the faculty, Bowman and Harvey
 are members of the steering group of the Baron Thyssen Centre for the Study of Ancient
 Material Religion, led by Classical Studies, and Maiden and several of our PGRS have
 contributed to its seminars and blogs. Tremlett led the “Cultures” stream of the Faculty’s Centre
 for Citizenship, Identities and Governance (CCIG), and is a member of the University’s
 Citizenship and Governance SRA. Since 2008 Beattie has been a member of the Ferguson
 Centre for African and Asian Studies, which is led by History. Since 2016 Wolffe has been
 Associate Dean (Research Enterprise and Scholarship) for the Faculty of Arts and Social
 Sciences, a further important example of the capacity of RS colleagues to provide strategic
 interdisciplinary research leadership.

 Our interdisciplinarity is also illustrated in national and international research projects. Ali was on
 the committee of “Difference that Makes a Difference (DTMD)” group of the International Society
 for Information Studies. As Co-I Bowman led fieldwork, KE and impact elements of the
 “Pilgrimage and England’s Cathedrals, Past and Present” project (PEC; York University,
 2014-18). She is currently international advisor on the “Re-storied Sites and Routes as Inclusive
 Spaces and Places: Shared Imaginations and Multi-layered Heritage” (EMP340; 2020-23),

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funded by the Baltic Research Program in Estonia. Similarly, Harvey and Tremlett were
 involved in developing and conducting the “Reassembling Democracy” (REDO) project
 combining ethnography, sociology, theology, and ritual and performance studies approaches,
 funded by the Norwegian Research Council (2013-17). Wolffe, Maiden and Sinclair are Co-Is
 in the “Religious Toleration and Peace” (RETOPEA) project (EC H2020; 2018-22) which brings
 historians, educationalists and media studies expertise together and involves school and media
 KE. Wolffe is co-editor of the Wilberforce diaries project, to be published by OUP (led by John
 Coffey, Leicester). For 2017-18, the anthropologists Irving and Kyriakides joined us as Research
 Fellows with Templeton funding for their project “Magical thinking in contexts and situations of
 unbelief”.

 1.6 Open Research Environment

 Our celebration of the OU’s core value of “openness” has established a culture in which
 engagement and collaboration beyond the UOA, discipline and academia are standard. We work
 with colleagues in other disciplines (e.g., in networks led by Art History, Classical Studies,
 Geography, History and Music), with colleagues in learned societies nationally and globally (see
 section 4), with colleagues in UK and international research teams, and collaboratively supervise
 a PGRS with Border Crossings Theatre Company. As the RETOPEA project perfectly illustrates,
 we understand that good research requires collaboration with other knowledge holders whose
 ideas, practices and lives we seek to engage. As a result, our projects are designed from the
 outset to result both in scholarly outputs and in outcomes beneficial to communities beyond
 academia.

 Since REF2014 we have increased the amount of research-led learning material that is freely
 available through the OU’s OpenLearn platform – including short videos on activism and a 12-
 hour course on religious diversity. We have also produced a CPD training MOOC on religious
 literacy and diversity for FutureLearn (“Why Religion Matters”) – with 12 hours of active learning
 spread over 4 weeks. In its first year it attracted 2966 learners. During its first run (November
 2019) engagement was high compared to average on FutureLearn courses with 81% "active
 learners" (compared to 44% overall average). The MOOC is reviewed at an average of 4.5 out of
 5. We have contributed to OU/BBC co-productions and other media outputs, e.g., Newcombe
 was academic consultant for “A visual journey through heaven” (2018; for the award-winning
 BBC Ideas; viewed 106,300 times), and Harvey served as academic advisor for Extraordinary
 Rituals (2018), providing freely accessible additional resources for studying rituals and
 Indigeneity (viewed 5334 times). Tremlett Is currently making a research-informed film for
 MASSOLIT (educational media producers) for A-level Sociology students on Marx and religion.

 Our outputs are included in the university’s open repository, ORO, either as prepublication final
 drafts or as links to open access versions on publisher’s websites. Recent examples include an
 edited book from the REDO project (Harvey’s co-edited Reassembling Democracy: Ritual and
 Cultural Resource, Bloomsbury 2020) and Bowman’s introduction and article in a special issue
 of NUMEN: “Reframing Pilgrimage in Northern Europe”. Similarly, research material has been
 presented to the public in accessible form for a broad readership e.g., in the Pilgrimage and
 England's Cathedrals website.

 1.7 Research integrity

 Research by the UOA is conducted within the university’s ethical and legal frameworks and
 meets its professional obligations and standards. All members of the UOA participate in training
 as set out in the Institutional Environment Statement (IES) (Section 2), regarding equality,
 safeguarding, information security, Prevent and GDPR. Those involved in recruitment of other
 staff and of PGRS complete a “Recruitment, Selection and Interviewing at The Open University”
 module. Research proposals by colleagues and PGRS include commitments to work within
 university and disciplinary guidelines on research integrity and where appropriate are subject to
 review by the university Human Research Ethics Committee.


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our commitment to ethical research in Religious Studies is also illustrated by contributions by
 our members to framing discipline-wide and project specific guidelines. These are integral to our
 focus on lived religion and our ambition to increase religious literacy and therefore encourage
 critical and respectful engagement with the personal and political expressions of religion.
 Tremlett and a past PGRS (Wildcroft, 2015-2019) were members of the working party which
 drafted and consulted on new Ethics Guidelines for the British Association for the Study of
 Religions (BASR) in 2019. UOA colleagues and PGRS apply these guidelines in funding bids
 and in applications to the university Ethics Committee for permission to conduct fieldwork. We
 have also contributed to research integrity best practice in our interdisciplinary projects. Wolffe
 chairs the research ethics board of the RETOPEA project, and Sinclair is a member of that
 board, which involves inter-institutional and international discussions. As fieldwork lead in the
 York “Cathedrals” project, Bowman had significant input into the project’s ethics guidelines for
 fieldwork and for the subsequent use and storage of data and outcomes. Harvey has proposed
 a “methodological guesthood” which has influenced collaborative research between social work
 researchers at the University of Hawai’i Manoa and a Native Hawai’ian food producing project,
 Ho'oulu 'Āina. UOA outputs exemplify good practice for ethical research by citing as authoritative
 the words, practices and expertise of our research hosts and partners.

 1.8 Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact:

 To build on our existing strategy – while enhancing the synergies between our research and
 teaching activities – the UOA has agreed the following strategic aims under our “contemporary
 religion in historical context” strapline:
           1. We will continue to build strong sustainable relationships with religious groups,
               educational communities and wider society, locally and nationally (e.g., through links
               with InterFaith Milton Keynes, schools, NATRE, National Extension College) and
               globally, emphasising the value of diversity to improve religious literacy;
           2. We will continue to engage in collaborative discussion and research within our
               Faculty and School, e.g., in research forums and networks, especially in light of their
               developing strategic emphasis on global challenges and social justice;
           3. We will seek further funding to enable colleagues to pursue individual and
               collaborative projects, expand our engagement with historical and contemporary
               religion, increase the sustainability of our research and discipline, and promote a
               diverse and decolonising research culture and curriculum. For example, we currently
               have bids under consideration by the AHRC, British Academy and Culham St
               Gabriel’s Trust, with further bids in preparation;
           4. We will host further conferences, seminars and KE events to highlight the value of
               exchanges between academics and practitioners, collaborating with networks such
               as BASR, Inform, the Religious Archives Group and Culham St Gabriel’s Trust;
           5. In collaboration with the OOC DTP, funding councils and other networks, we will
               pursue further opportunities to recruit, fund and train PGRS. We will also pursue
               opportunities to give our PGRS teaching experience in distance-learning, and will
               mentor them post-award in seeking post-doctoral, publication and other career-
               development opportunities;
           6. We will further increase and widen public and stakeholder engagement with our
               research and KE, using our social media presence and blog, the University’s
               relationships with the BBC and FutureLearn, and its OpenLearn platform. For
               example, as part of the ongoing RETOPEA project we will develop a Badged Open
               Course for schoolteachers and other educators on advancing religious literacy and
               tolerance among young people through making short films.

 2. People

 2. Staffing composition and strategy

 The UOA comprises eleven members (9.1 FTE), ten from Religious Studies and one (with
 expertise in Islam) from Computing and Communications. This is an increase from 6 FTE at the

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 last REF census and evidences the OU’s investment in the UOA and enables us to sustain and
 expand our ability to teach and research a wider array of historical and contemporary
 phenomena through a rich mix of approaches and methods.

 Our staffing strategy facilitates the UOA’s mission to develop research and curriculum designed
 to advance critical religious literacy and promote openness, equality and diversity among
 colleagues, learners and publics. In the assessment period our strategy has been:
     • to increase our staff numbers to improve our ability to research and teach about more
        religions employing more approaches and methods
     • to encourage and support career development and promotion and opportunities for
        training and staff development
     • to increase the contractual hours and research time of fixed-term and part-time staff
        while supporting them to gain permanent contracts
     • to enhance staff capabilities for working from home (especially during Covid19 crisis)
        while maintaining a strongly collegial approach to research and teaching
     • to enhance our engagement with students and the public by increasing learning
        materials, blogs and events relevant in the four UK nations and beyond
     • to facilitate participation by all staff in PGRS training and supervision.

 The UOA has a good spread from senior and mid-career colleagues to more junior colleagues.
 There are two Professors (Harvey and Wolffe), five Senior Lecturers (Bowman, Maiden,
 Newcombe, Sinclair and Tremlett), and four Lecturers (Ali, Beattie, Nita and Robertson; Nita
 and Robertson are ECRs). We have an almost even gender balance – six colleagues are male,
 five female – and our recruitment ambition is to improve our ethnic diversity. During the
 assessment period Maiden, Newcombe and Sinclair have been promoted from Lecturer to
 Senior Lecturer, Harvey has been promoted to Professor band 1 and Wolffe to Professor band
 3. Newcombe and Robertson were recruited during the assessment period on fixed term
 contracts, but have since been made permanent, with contracts increased to 1 FTE and 0.6
 respectively. We also brought in Nita at 0.6 on a fixed-term 14-month contract, since extended
 to March 2021. Bowman has been on a 0.2 contract since summer 2019 and also held a 0.2
 visiting Professorship at the University of Oslo (2014-18). During the assessment period two
 colleagues (Beckerlegge and Waterhouse) retired but remain affiliated to the UOA as,
 respectively, Emeritus Professor and Honorary Associate, while their areas of expertise in
 Buddhist and Hindu lived religion have been maintained through Newcombe’s appointment.

 2.1. Recruitment, formal and informal staff appraisal and development

 The OU operates in all four nations of the UK, has an online and widening participation mission
 and is committed to increasing equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI: set out in the IES). These
 characteristics are embedded in the UOA’s staff and PGRS recruitment and staff development
 processes. Relevant training is provided at university and faculty level and mentoring within the
 UOA, enabling more junior colleagues to gain necessary experience and confidence, enhancing
 our characteristic collaborative teamwork. This is illustrated by the constitution of research teams
 (e.g., RETOPEA), co-supervision of PGRS and in shared teaching activities.

 The primary opportunity for colleagues to reflect on and seek to develop their careers is provided
 by annual appraisal process led by the HoD. This is preceded by less formal conversations with
 the RL focusing on specific research and impact work. Both formal and informal processes
 include discussion of individuals’ research achievements and plans, funding applications and
 impact activities, ambitions for PGRS supervisory possibilities, networking and external roles.
 While this advice and guidance is targeted at the research review, colleagues can and do seek
 advice from colleagues apart from or alongside the HoD and RL when they feel the need
 throughout the year.

 Formal Academic Workload Management (AWM) processes include allocation of time devoted
 to research, KE, external roles such as external examining and leadership within subject
 associations or Research Council peer review colleges. Contractually, at least 79 days per

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 annum are allocated for research and impact activities. Our distance-learning structure enables
 flexibility about when leave can be taken. Following discussion with the HoD and the
 arrangement of cover for necessary core roles or events by other colleagues, researchers are
 able to plan blocks of leave and to respond rapidly to calls and opportunities.

 Grant applications and draft outputs are peer-reviewed by the Research Steering Group in
 regular meetings to oversee research success as well as career development and satisfaction.
 As discussed above, off-campus “away days” (some residential) expand peer review processes
 by sharing draft outputs and research plans with the full UOA team for supportive discussion and
 exploration of potential collaborations. An external reviewer participated in the 2019 mock-REF
 processes and in UOA away events, reading potential outputs and drafts of this Environment
 Statement and ICS, and reporting on UOA strengths and preparedness.

 Media training enhances the UOA’s ability to meet its ambition to disseminate research and
 impact diverse publics. Training is carried out in-house using the University’s own specialist staff
 and consultants – including Robertson as FASS Social Media Fellow – and production facilities,
 or externally if necessary.

 Recognition of specific skills and interests enables colleagues to take on particular roles or to
 train for them. Research is a key element in most promotion cases – e.g., Wolffe’s promotion to
 Professor Band 3 was on the research track. Leadership roles within the UOA provide further
 opportunities for staff development and promotion. The HoD and RL roles are normally held for
 three years. Similarly, faculty and university roles are held for defined periods. Tremlett is a
 member of the University’s Research Degrees Examination Results Approval Committee and
 was FASS Director of Research Degrees, and HoD for 3 years during the reporting period.
 Wolffe is FASS Associate Dean (Research Enterprise and Scholarship). Currently, Sinclair (as
 Director of the faculty Centre for Scholarship and Innovation) is a member of FASS Research
 Board.

 2.2 Postgraduate Research Students

 In the census period eight of our PGRS have been awarded their PhDs. We are currently
 supervising 13 PGRS. Our focus on contemporary religion in historical perspective has proved
 fruitful both in recruiting and guiding PGRS to contribute to a range of current debates, deploying
 a range of methodologies and contributing to the sustainability of the discipline by publications,
 blogs, conference organisation and KE. We expanded the strapline by adding three further
 themes – “Global uncertainties and religious change”, “Place, locality, culture and performance”
 and “The state, citizenships and identities” – to encapsulate our disciplinary and transdisciplinary
 supervisory expertise. We use our UOA webpages, social media and scholarly networks to link
 to the OU PGRS prospectus and invite enquiries and proposals. Five of our current 13 PGRS
 are co-supervised with colleagues from outside the UOA (i.e., Classical Studies; Development;
 Social Policy and Criminology; and Sociology). One of our part-time self-funded PGRS had an
 additional co-supervisor from Leo Baeck College, London; while one of our OOC DTP funded
 PGRS has an additional supervisor from Border Crossings Theatre Company, London.

 After interview, successful candidates for supervision may be recommended to apply for full-time
 funding. Additionally, some self-funded PGRS apply for funding after completing a probationary
 period. Three of the applicants we have supported have secured full-time funding from the
 CHASE DTP, three more from the OOC DTP and one from the Grand Union DTP. We have also
 provided opportunities for self-funded and part-time research, rooted in our commitment to
 equality of opportunity. This also informs the training offered by the UOA alongside provision by
 the Graduate School and Faculty. Our networks enable us to provide opportunities for PGRS to
 present their work in a variety of academic settings. All OU PGRS have access to funds to
 participate in conferences of subject association (particularly BASR, Socrel, and Ecclesiastical
 History Society). Supervisors encourage them to publish peer-reviewed journal articles arising
 from conference presentations or draft thesis chapters if suitable. PGRS contribute to the UOA’s
 blog and to Religious Studies Project (RSP) podcasts (see Section 4). The nature of OU

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 undergraduate teaching has enabled two of our PGRS so far to benefit from a FASS teaching
 scheme (established in 2018). In this, post-upgrade PGRS participate in module presentation
 teams, shadowing our Associate Lecturers/tutors and participate in distance- and online-learning
 processes and assessments.

 We continue to mentor ex-PhD students post-award. They are typically invited to join our
 research associate (RA) network (following application and approval by the FASS Associate
 Dean for Research Enterprise and Scholarship). This provides them with continuing library
 access, invitations to contribute to seminars, blogs and other UOA activities. Supervisors-turned-
 mentors encourage publication of revised versions of PGRS theses with leading international
 presses. Examples during this REF period include
    • Flew’s Philanthropy and the Funding of the Church of England 1856-1914 (Pickering and
        Chatto, 2015);
    • Calder’s The Origins of Primitive Methodism (Boydell, 2016);
    • Thompson’s Young People and Church since 1900: Engagement and Exclusion
        (Routledge, 2018);
    • Coggins’s Mysticism, Ritual and Religion in Drone Metal (Bloomsbury, 2018) – which
        was awarded the International Association for the Study of Popular Music's 2019 Book
        Prize; and
    • Wildcroft’s Post-lineage Yoga: From Guru to #MeToo (Equinox 2020).
 Among forthcoming books are
    • Wanless’ Individualized Religion (Bloomsbury 2021);
    • Robertson’s Play, Pain and Religion (Equinox 2021); and
    • Thomas’s Free Zone Scientology: Contesting the Boundaries of a New Religion
        (Bloomsbury 2021).

 We have supported ex-PGRS in their career progression (in and beyond academia): e.g.,
 Thompson is Senior Lecturer in Youth and Community Work at Goldsmiths; Thomas is
 Lecturer in Religious Studies at Wolverhampton; Wanless has a Leverhulme Early Career
 Fellowship at Edinburgh and Coggins at Brunel, Flew is Deputy Director of Development at
 Imperial College; Wildcroft is project coordinator, Centre of Yoga studies at SOAS; Corio is
 vicar of St Mary the Virgin, East Barnet. Our PGRS (before and after award) contribute to
 subject associations, e.g., Wanless as BASR Web Officer, Wildcroft as BASR Bulletin editor.
 Adding to these contributions to religious studies, Thomas and Wildcroft were the driving force
 in the founding and development of the alt-ac.uk (“alternative academia”) network, providing
 support to ECRs and independent researchers within the sector in the current job market,
 including organising the highly successful on-line one-day international “Conference at the end
 of the world” (July 2020).


 2.3 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 The University’s commitment to EDI and to openness and equity in research assessment, as
 described in REF5a, is implemented at faculty level through the FASS strategic plan 2019-2023,
 which includes targets to further increase diversity in our staff. Its PGRS management group has
 recently established a group with PGRS members to engage with Black Lives Matters (BLM)
 calls for change. The SSGS School facilitates engagement by all its disciplines with social justice
 by emphasising it in the title of its nascent research centre and by transdisciplinary debate about
 decolonising research and curriculum. The diversity of our PGRS community and of our
 contributions to OU, faculty and school networks illustrate the UOA’s commitment to and
 promotion of the policies, practices and ambitions of these forums.

 All members of the UOA have contributed to EDI debates and processes. This can be illustrated
 by Harvey’s membership of the university Race Equality Charter steering group (2017-19), the
 FASS BLM group, and the SSGS research centre planning group. Our “contemporary religion in
 historical perspective” strapline is evoked in Newcombe’s “Institutional Racism, Religious

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Studies and #BlackLivesMatter” blog and in Beattie, Maiden, Newcombe and Tremlett’s pilot
 project on “Decolonising Religious Studies” (funded by FASS’s Centre for Scholarship and
 Innovation). UOA members’ 3 blog posts for FASS’s series for Black History Month (October
 2020) and MOOC illustrate our efforts to widen participation with our collaborative research
 among diverse and often marginalised communities (e.g., Indigenous religionists, Muslims,
 African diaspora pentecostalist Christians, democracy and climate activists) and, therefore, our
 commitment to social justice.

 Females and males from the UOA have been appointed to leadership roles in university, faculty
 and school, and have achieved promotion (as noted at 2.1 above). The dispersed nature of our
 staff and research student community underlines the importance of the range of University
 measures for facilitating remote working which are environmentally friendly, promote well-being
 and have been of great benefit during the Covid19 crisis. UOA meetings can be attended
 remotely using University-approved software; those with caring responsibilities regularly use
 these facilities, as do those with temporary workload pressures. Our meetings are scheduled
 where possible to avoid frequent travel during rush hours and care is taken to ensure that
 adequate breaks are taken while staff are meeting on campus. More frequent but shorter online
 meetings have been held during the Covid19 pandemic to support colleagues and maintain
 necessary processes. Working patterns within the UOA are routinely adjusted to accommodate
 research leave, attendance at conferences and other events, to enable child and parental care,
 and to facilitate any matters related to protected characteristics. Fixed-term staff and our staff
 tutor (see IES 1.2) (Beattie) receive the same (pro rata) research privileges as other staff
 members and care has been taken to ensure that their research is treated in the same way as
 that of other colleagues. Similarly, our part-time and full-time, funded and self-funded PGRS
 receive equivalent support and access to facilities.

 2.4 REF2021 Preparations

 The UOA’s submission has been prepared by a steering group, led by the RL, consisting of five
 members of the RS discipline whose appointment has been ratified by both the Faculty and the
 University. They were selected for their leadership, research experience and understanding of
 the diverse approaches applied by colleagues. All members of the panel have completed the
 Equality and Diversity training required by the OU’s REF2021 Code of Practice. The whole UOA
 has been consulted about drafts of the submission in residential away days in 2019 and
 dedicated online meetings in 2020. Discussion and feedback have enabled the steering group to
 improve drafts while contributing to the collaborative environment and cohesion of the UOA and
 to all colleagues’ sense of ownership of the submission.

 During the mock-REF (2019) all members of the UOA were invited to propose up to 6 outputs for
 submission and to propose further recent outputs in 2020. The steering group selected outputs
 in consultation with an external adviser who was a former REF subpanel member. The selection
 process attended to the diversity of our staff, research approaches and outputs, and to the value
 of our strapline as a generator of cohesion between diverse interests.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research income

 Income from external and internal sources underpins the vitality and sustainability of the UOA. In
 the census period we have gained £589,858 of external grant income. This reflects a
 diversification of bidding over the assessment period – with more colleagues involved in seeking
 external funding, more sources approached, and more research approaches engaged in.

 Funding from the AHRC, Norwegian Research Council and the EU has enabled the UOA to be
 PIs or Co-Is in the PEC, REDO and RETOPEA projects noted above (e.g., at 1.5). In addition,
 Maiden furthered the “Building on History” project with Mercer’s Company funding, while funding
 from the Historical Society of the Episcopal Church (USA) and Santander Universities facilitated

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 his research on charismatic Christianity. While HoD, Tremlett was able to use Templeton
 funding to bring Irving and Kyriakides into our team as Research Fellows. Several bids are
 currently under consideration or in preparation (supported by the Faculty Research Office) which
 will further increase the number of colleagues submitting proposals to AHRC, ESRC,
 Leverhulme and other funders.

 In addition to the external funding which has enabled these larger, more ambitious activities,
 UOA research is also supported by internal funding. This begins with an annual baseline
 personal allocation (PSA) of £500 which has enabled colleagues to conduct some fieldwork or
 archive visits, participate in national or international conferences or gain some research
 assistance. The UOA was allocated internal funding from university strategic investment; from
 School research budgets; and from the Faculty’s Strategic Research Investment Fund (SRIF) –
 which provides seed-corn funding of up to £5000 per application for individuals and teams to
 meet strategic ambitions of various kinds. This funding (£75,996) has enhanced the UOA’s
 ability to meet its aims and support key activities. We have organised, hosted or supported two
 conferences under our “contemporary religion in historical perspective” strapline: a “Festival
 Cultures” conference (2020), and the 2020 conference of the British Association for the Study of
 Religions. We have piloted research with international collaborators (f2f and/or online), enabled
 KE events in the UK and Ireland, organised author-workshops to increase the coherence,
 significance and potential reach of edited volumes, had 3 books professionally indexed,
 employed consultants to gather evidence of our impact, and purchased equipment such as
 recording devices. Strategically, this expenditure has freed up time for further research, KE and
 impact activities.

 3.2 Research infrastructure and facilities

 The Faculty is led by an Executive Dean supported by Associate Deans. The Associate Dean for
 Research Enterprise and Scholarship chairs the Faculty Research Board which takes a strategic
 overview of research activity (including PGRS). The Faculty Research Office provides
 administrative expertise and works with the University central Research and Enterprise team
 and the Graduate School to support bid development, the management of awards, research
 student administration, knowledge exchange, impact, the distribution of internal funds for
 research and REF management. Internal funding processes are noted in Section 2.

 UOA processes are supported at Faculty level, where a team of expert administrative staff
 performs several essential functions, including:
     • a continuing advice, guidance and alert service designed to provide information on the
        types and grants available and their bidder success rates
     • a regular quarterly call to researchers to gain information about bidding intentions, to
        ensure coordination and capacity planning within the Faculty
     • advice and guidance to ensure that the financial elements of grant applications are
        suitably prepared
     • advice on ethical and contractual matters
     • oversight of all larger bids, including coordinating internal peer review to ensure the
        quality of the bid
     • management, advice and guidance for grants in progress, to ensure proper financial
        planning and probity
     • training, monitoring and evidence gathering for impact.

 Facilities within the UOA include audio and video equipment for making field recordings and/or
 interviews. These are looked after by the UOA’s discipline coordinator and can be booked out on
 request.

 3.3 Impact Infrastructure

 We benefit from guidance and support from the Faculty Head of External Engagement and the
 Impact, Enterprise and Knowledge Exchange Manager who lead on relationships with a range of

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 non-academic bodies. The UOA’s RL collaborates with other school and faculty RLs, attends
 external, university and faculty impact briefings, advises colleagues about impact relating to their
 research as part of research reviews, organises impact sessions at departmental away days,
 and liaises with the UOA’s social media lead and other colleagues to consider and develop
 pathways to impact. We pursue opportunities to disseminate research-based and open access
 material to reach large and diverse audiences. In addition to our blog, we have re-versioned
 some of our research-led learning materials for open access dissemination via OpenLearn,
 produced a FutureLearn MOOC and contributed to BBC productions (examples above at 1.6).
 The university has funded consultancies to enable us to gather evidence of impact and enabled
 us to target promising current and future areas of impact.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The OU’s “openness” ethos permeates the UOA’s activities, inspires our varied collaborations
 and is expressed in our contributions to the research base, economy and society. Our focus on
 contemporary religion in historical perspective informs our engagement both with academic
 colleagues and with diverse publics in wider society.

 4.1 Collaborations, networks and partnerships

 The University Research Office ensures that appropriate formal collaborative agreements with
 other institutions and with other units within the OU are made, liaising with other OU offices as
 necessary. Agreements cover finances, intellectual property, data protection, reporting and any
 other issues required to establish secure working arrangements. Support at faculty level ensures
 appropriate actions are taken.

 In addition to OU interdisciplinary networks noted in Section 1.5, we are leading and active
 members of national and international research collaborations and networks. We have already
 noted collaborations (sometimes as PIs or Co-Is) in the international “Reassembling Democracy”
 (REDO), “Religious Toleration and Peace” (RETOPEA) and “Re-storied Sites and Routes”
 projects and the national Pilgrimage and England’s Cathedrals (PEC) project. In addition,
 Bowman was scientific advisor to the Finnish Post-secular culture and a changing religious
 landscape in Finland project (2010- 2015) and Newcombe is a researcher in the ERC-funded
 “Entangled Histories of Yoga, Ayurveda and Alchemy in South Asia” (AYURYOG) project,
 working with colleagues in Austria and Canada to examine the histories of yoga, ayurveda and
 rasaśāstra from the tenth century to the present (2015-20). Maiden participated in the AHRC
 funded ‘Faith and Place’ network (2014-15) and presented his research in an international
 research symposium funded by the Luce Foundation and hosted by the Roosevelt Study Centre,
 Netherlands (2015). This resulted in a special issue of Journal of American Studies ‘Towards a
 global history of American evangelicalism’. Wolffe participated in the ‘Anti-Popery in British
 History’ AHRC funded network (2018-19).

 We have convened seminar series or events beyond the OU. For example, Ali is co-organiser of
 the Mellon Sawyer Seminar on “Histories of AI: A Genealogy of Power” (2020-21; Cambridge),
 and Maiden and Wolffe co-convene the Modern Religious History Seminar, Institute of
 Historical Research, University of London.

 In addition to holding leadership positions in subject associations and learned societies focused
 on both historical and contemporary religion (see below) we are directors and trustees of centres
 that develop, coordinate and/or disseminate research. Newcombe is Honorary Director of
 INFORM, a scholarly charity collecting and providing evidence-based information about minority
 religions to policy makers, educators and enquirers. Robertson is the co-founding Editor of the
 Religious Studies Project (RSP), an international collaborative enterprise (and registered
 Scottish Charitable Incorporated Organisation) producing weekly podcasts with leading scholars
 on the social-scientific study of religion which are widely used in schools and universities in
 Europe, the US and Australia, expected to reach 1 million downloads in January 2021.


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.2 Engagement with key users, beneficiaries or audiences

 As noted above in outlining KE and impact pathways, we seek to benefit and collaborate with the
 communities among which we research. We have enabled or enhanced archive related activities,
 cathedral visitors’ experiences, applications for charitable status, and developments in religious
 literacy among school students, media and other communities. This has resulted from our
 participation in funded projects, and our offering of open access resources, talks to groups in
 person and online within religious, cultural and political groups and events. For example,
 Bowman is academic advisor for the development of the Glastonbury Way Path, a new
 pilgrimage; Nita has given talks to Christian climate change groups, Harvey has recorded talks
 for Druid and other Pagan movements, and Sinclair has been advisor for the Church of
 England’s Networked Learning Advisory Group. We are finalising our engagement with the 2021
 Census through an AHRC-funded project about religious and ethnic change in Milton Keynes in
 the last 50 years. This will involve a cross-generational digital workshop and result in open
 access resources on OpenLearn.

 In this census period we have strategically encouraged work with schools. Prior to disruption
 consequent on the pandemic the RETOPEA project commenced work in schools (and has plans
 to work in museums and youth clubs) in eight countries across Europe. Tremlett and Nita lead a
 school engagement initiative, working with Denbigh (Secondary) School in Milton Keynes and
 the Local Education Authority’s Standing Advisory Council on Religious Education (SACRE) to
 learn from pupils and teachers and to share our expertise around critical religious literacy. We
 have made teaching materials for schools freely available within the outreach and schools’
 section of our website. The UOA is a group affiliate of the National Association of Teachers of
 Religious Education, offering encouragement and resources for teaching about lived religion.

 4.3 Wider contributions to economy and society and engagements with diverse
 communities and the public

 In addition to the open resources we have made available through our social media, OpenLearn,
 FutureLearn and the OU’s Open Research Repository, we have contributed to The Conversation
 (e.g., Newcombe’s “How yoga conquered Britain”, June 2019, and “From Ayurveda to
 biomedicine”, Nov 2017, with over 12,000 and 21,000 readers respectively by April 2020), the
 Religion Media Centre (e.g., Robertson’s “Understanding conspiracy theories”, April 2020);
 Counterpoint (e.g., Harvey’s “Predators, prey and snowdrops”, Feb 2019), Oxford University’s
 blog (Tremlett’s “Energy and contagion in Durkheim’s The Elementary Forms of the Religious
 Life”, October 2017), and the Religious Studies Project (around 40 contributions by UOA
 members).

 Led respectively by Wolffe and Tremlett and building on the strength of our focus on religious
 literacy, the UOA made submissions to the All-Party Parliamentary Groups on Religious
 Education (2016) and Religion in the Media (2020). Wolffe was subsequently an invited speaker
 at two meetings of the APPG on Religious Education.

 We have given invited presentations to industry groups (e.g., Ali to AI scientists), talks at
 galleries and museums, e.g., most staff have been involved in public events at the British
 Museum, Tremlett and Harvey presented at the Institute of Contemporary Art (2018) and at
 Tate Exchange (2019), Bowman appeared on the BBC R4 programme Making History (2018).

 4.4 Sustaining the discipline and interdisciplinarity

 We play or have played leadership roles in key subject associations and learned societies. The
 majority of the UOA are long-term members of BASR, the European Association for the Study of
 Religions (EASR) and the International Association for the History of Religions (IAHR). In the
 census period, Harvey, Robertson and Sinclair have been members of the BASR Executive
 Committee. Bowman was vice-President of EASR from 2013 to 2019. Bowman, Harvey and
 Tremlett have represented the UOA and BASR in TRS-UK and the Arts and Humanities

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Alliance (AHA) throughout the census period, and Bowman is vice-president of TRS-UK (2019-
 21). We have organised panels for EASR, IAHR, AAR and AAA conferences. Wolffe is
 President and Maiden is a committee member of the Religious Archives Group. In his founding
 and continuing roles in the Religious Studies Project (noted above) Robertson makes major
 contributions to dissemination and debate about research in the discipline globally.

 We shape intellectual thought through editing and peer review. We are editors of four book
 series: Religion and the Senses (Equinox), Vitality of Indigenous Religions (Routledge), Religion,
 Space and Place (Bloomsbury), and Religion, Culture and Society (Routledge). We are founding
 editors, editors, scientific/advisory board members and/or book reviews editors of 14 peer
 reviewed journals; and have guest edited issues of these and other journals (e.g., Religion).
 Wolffe is an editorial advisor and contributor to the new edition of the Oxford Dictionary of the
 Christian Church.

 We contribute significantly to peer review bodies. Bowman, Harvey and Wolffe are or have been
 members of the AHRC peer review college. Bowman and Sinclair have peer reviewed for the
 Swiss National Science Foundation. Bowman has peer reviewed for the British Academy, the
 Hungarian National Research, Development and Innovation Office, the Estonian Research
 Council, the Austrian Science Fund, Singapore’s Academic Research Council; and the
 Norwegian Research Council. Bowman and Newcombe have peer reviewed for the Canadian
 Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council. Harvey is a member of the ESRC peer
 review college and an assessor for the Australian Research Council. Newcombe has peer
 reviewed for the Wellcome Trust. Sinclair has peer reviewed for the ESRC and for the
 Netherlands Initiative for Education Research; and Wolffe for the European Science Foundation
 and the Polish Research Council.

 We have peer reviewed articles submitted to 38 journals focused on a wide range of disciplinary
 and trans-disciplinary topics and approaches as well as those engaging with specific religions or
 regions.

 We have reviewed book manuscripts for Berghan, Bloomsbury, Boydell Press, Brill, Cambridge
 University Press, Columbia University Press, Continuum, Counterpoint Books, Equinox,
 Manchester University Press, New York University Press, Oxford University Press, Peter Lang,
 Policy Press, Routledge, Springer, University of California Press, University of Hawaii Press, and
 Zed Books.

 We have served on panels validating and/or reviewing programmes at All Nation’s Christian
 College, Cambridge Muslim College, Maryvale, Union School of Theology, Union Theological
 Seminary, the Universities of Durham and Kent, SOAS, University College Cork. We have
 served as external examiners for undergraduate and taught Masters programmes at the
 universities of Aberdeen, Chester, Durham, Lancaster, Wolverhampton, and Queen’s Belfast.

 In addition to sustaining future research through PGR supervision, we have also examined PhDs
 at the UK universities of Aberdeen, Birmingham, Edinburgh, Kent, Kings College London, Leeds,
 Sussex, SOAS, Wales Trinity St David, and Winchester. Internationally, we have examined
 PhDs at the Université de Fribourg, Switzerland; the University of New South Wales, Australia;
 and the following Dutch HEIs: the International Baptist Seminary, the Vrije Universiteit
 Amsterdam, and Tilburg University .

 4.5 Responsiveness to national and international disciplinary priorities and initiatives

 Through participation in national and international disciplinary and trans-disciplinary associations,
 networks, peer review forums and research projects we have contributed to the shaping of
 research priorities and initiatives. Synergistically, our research interests have evolved to embrace
 such national and international concerns as migration, environment, activism, conspiracism,
 heritage, individualism, identities and religious change. We contribute to debates that engage
 classic disciplinary issues (such as ritual, pilgrimage, charisma, socialisation, secularisation,

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 animism and discourse) with transdisciplinary concerns under headings such as “global
 challenges”, “social justice” and “decolonising”. We have broadened the array of religious
 phenomena researched and debated in and beyond the discipline (e.g., by promoting the study of
 Indigenous religions) and have informed the application of approaches and methods appropriate
 to historical and contemporary lived religion. Our research is at the cutting edge of the
 multidisciplinary “turns” to embodiment, gender, location, ontology and material religion. From
 research planning and bidding to impact assessment we have aimed to improve literacy about
 religion and its varied contributions to society. Our future strategy aims to sustain and develop
 these contributions.




                                                                                           Page 14
