Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Warwick

 Unit of Assessment: C19 Politics and International Studies

 1. UNIT CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE, RESEARCH AND IMPACT STRATEGY

 (1.1) DEPARTMENTAL ETHOS

 Warwick’s Department of Politics and International Studies (PAIS) began life in its modern form in
 1990. Yet its origins go back much further, to the creation of the separate Departments of Politics
 (in 1965) and International Relations (in 1975). PAIS continues to owe much to its founders’
 ambitions to promote interdisciplinarity and to embed a global component into research content
 wherever possible. However, we have changed out of all recognition in the diversity of our staff
 base, the varied intellectual backgrounds of our new recruits, our embrace of new topics, our
 engagement with real-world challenges, and our capacity to drive methodological advances. We
 have now fully transcended the original Department’s size, shape and focus, helping to position
 UK Politics and International Studies as a thriving and truly cosmopolitan discipline. We are now
 collectively capable of identifying and interrogating every way in which politics intervenes in
 people’s everyday lives. Such changes are by design. They reflect our commitment to the idea
 that research excellence follows from expanding our exposure to different voices both within-and-
 beyond our subject field and within-and-beyond academia [REF5b-1.5]. They also reflect our
 commitment to the idea that the richest and most welcoming research environments are those
 that allow all colleagues to flourish simultaneously, whatever their personal circumstances or their
 chosen style of research [REF5b-2.3/2.4].

 We have four research clusters: Comparative Politics; International Political Economy;
 International Relations and Security; and Political Theory. There is no single ‘Warwick way’ in any
 of the areas in which we specialise; neither should there be. We have sought over many years to
 construct a research environment whose vitality comes from the conscious embrace of pluralism
 in approach, theoretical underpinning, methodology and impact strategy. Our clusters are asked
 to provide spaces in which all colleagues are confident that their research will find a receptive
 home, and the Department’s Research and Impact Committee (RIC) funds their activities in a way
 that allows everyone to find their own voice within their target specialist literature. We have a
 consciously people-centred approach to our research environment, based on the belief that we all
 do our best work when feeling supported to think outside our immediate comfort zone. This is
 about guaranteeing equality of access to research time for all colleagues, and then ensuring that
 structures are in place to allow that time to be used in pursuit of innovative research programmes
 and the encouragement of progressive social change [REF5b-1.6].

 Consistent with our stated objectives at REF2014, managing our research environment in line with
 these principles has allowed us to: (i) secure high levels of staffing stability as a measure of
 underlying staff satisfaction [REF5b-2.2]; (ii) embed our newer hires into the behaviours and
 values of the Department [REF5b-2.1]; (iii) bring greater ED&I sensitivity to colleagues’ experience
 of career development [REF5b-2.3]; (iv) contribute to tackling the gender gap across all staffing
 levels in the profession [REF5b-2.4]; and (v) place our historically-strong doctoral and postdoctoral
 programmes on even firmer foundations [REF5b-2.5/2.6]. Our primary objective in the years
 ahead is to protect our forward momentum in each of these people-centred areas, as a means of
 deepening our proactive equality agendas in relation to all protected characteristics [REF5a-3.4].
 The hugely impressive way in which colleagues voluntarily rallied around throughout the Covid-19



                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 pandemic to reduce the burdens on those whose research time was most disrupted is indicative
 of the strength of buy-in to such agendas.

 (1.2) OVERSEEING RESEARCH SUCCESSES

 We have truly matured as a Department. Our 63-person submission is comfortably our largest
 ever, and it is based on the widest ever sharing of its most notable research successes. This has
 followed a conscious effort to involve the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (ED&I) Committee in all
 decisions relating to the structures within which individual research is conducted [REF5b-2.1]. The
 creation of increasingly conjoined spaces within which our Research and Impact and ED&I
 Committees operate ensures that the influence they have on colleagues’ working lives no longer
 feels distinct. RIC is chaired by the Director of Research and Impact, who is responsible for the
 functioning of our research clusters, research centres and impact clouds [REF5b-1.4]. They are
 assisted in setting the Committee’s overall objectives by the Directors of Research Income and
 Research Strategy, working collectively within the broader institutional structure established
 through the University’s Research Executive and Research and Impact Services [REF5a-
 2.4/1.7/2.6]. All three Directors of Research, plus the Director of ED&I, attend weekly Senior
 Management Team (SMT) meetings chaired by the Head of Department. SMT provides further
 scrutiny of how closely RIC decisions align with the Department’s expressed ED&I commitments.
 Consistent with stated Athena Swan and Researcher Development Concordat best practice, the
 three Directors of Research and the Director of ED&I undertake an annual ‘gap’ analysis to
 determine whether current practice falls short of our aspirations to forge sustainable career paths
 for all [REF5a-3.3/3.4, REF5b-2.1].

 Across the whole of the staffing scale PAIS colleagues have been honoured for their research
 achievements during the reporting period. Before joining the Department, di Salvatore and Saberi-
 Zafarghandi were awarded prestigious Dutch and Canadian PhD prizes. Our own doctoral
 students additionally won one ECPR (Tooker), one PSA (Braun) and two BISA PhD prizes (Eberle,
 Rossdale). Rai received an ISA Eminent Scholar award in 2015, Aldrich an ISA Distinguished
 Scholar Award in 2017. Rai’s coincided with writing Performing Representation, the keystone
 publication from her five-year Leverhulme Programme project, Gendered Ceremony and Ritual in
 Parliament; Aldrich’s coincided with the publication of The Black Door, his latest critical political
 history of Britain’s intelligence services, and the second edition of his renowned GCHQ. Elden
 won two book prizes and is now half-way to completing his already celebrated tetralogy presenting
 the first integrated intellectual history of Michel Foucault’s entire career, with the third and fourth
 books due in 2021 and 2022. Kibris published an open-access dataset providing the most
 comprehensive account available of all fatalities in the conflict since 1984 between the Kurdistan
 Workers’ Party, the PKK, and the Turkish state. This was a decade-long endeavour, during which
 time she received the 2017 Manas Chatterji Award for Excellence in Research on Peace
 Economics and Peace Science; Bove received the same award in 2016. Hyams won the 2015
 Sanders Prize in Political Philosophy, the most prestigious essay prize in that part of the discipline,
 and the 2020 Andrew Light Award in Public Philosophy for his work on ethics in international
 development and adaptation to climate change. Saward won APSA’s 2020 George H. Hallett
 Award for the book that has had the most profound effect over the last decade on the political
 theory of representation and electoral systems. In 2019 Lynch received both the annual ESRC
 prize for outstanding international impact and the Market Research Society’s President’s Medal
 for her impact work in East Africa. Aldrich, Breslin, Clift, Saward and Watson all held externally-
 funded professorial fellowships during the reporting period.



                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 (1.3) RESEARCH SPECIALISMS

 Our Comparative Politics cluster has driven the development of a number of theoretical literatures
 on democracy, representation, elections, citizenship and political stability, collectively combining
 quantitative and mixed-methods approaches with a commitment to sustained fieldwork. Koinova
 held prestigious personal fellowships in Germany and the US as international recognition gathers
 momentum for the path-breaking research on diasporas undertaken on her recently completed
 five-year ERC Starting Grant. Bove received two prizes for the work that informed his new book,
 Composing Peace, and his, di Salvatore’s and Kibris’s appointments enabled us to build new
 capacity in quantitative peace studies. Long received the ISA Diplomatic Section’s Young Scholar
 award in 2015, when he published one of Foreign Affairs’ ‘Books of the Year’ on Latin American
 foreign policy towards the US.

 Our International Political Economy cluster has established new ways of thinking in debates about
 gender, international development, global governance, finance and trade, helping to bring more
 of a substantive focus on the everyday and a theoretical focus on intellectual history to the
 specialist literature. Elias and Rethel were strongly commended for their Newton Fund work with
 Universitas Indonesia on the gendered everyday politics of evictions in Jakarta, helping to propel
 the British Council agenda of linking UK universities to developing-country HEIs. Clift’s
 Leverhulme-funded research on the IMF post-global financial crisis deepened our profile in the
 field of international economic institutions, earning him requests for expert opinion from the UK
 Treasury, Bank of England, Office for Budgetary Responsibility and Cabinet Office. Watson
 continued to develop original political readings of the history of economic thought from his ESRC
 Professorial Fellowship project, Rethinking the Market.

 Our International Relations and Security cluster has reshaped the intellectual discussion of
 security, intelligence, borders, migration and war, introducing important issues concerning
 spatiality and materiality into all of these areas. Heath-Kelly secured a Leverhulme Early Career
 Fellowship, an ESRC Future Research Leaders Fellowship and an ERC Starting Grant in a single
 REF cycle, as she carved out a new research agenda on the increasing embeddedness of counter-
 radicalisation initiatives within health policy. King’s and Welland’s appointments added new
 expertise in war studies; King gave 61 specially commissioned talks to armed forces globally, and
 won the 2020 British Army Military Book of the Year for Command: The Twenty-First Century
 British General. Squire, Stierl and Vaughan-Williams continued publishing innovative migration
 research, collectively contributing five books to our output pool that juxtapose on-the-ground
 realities of people in transit with policies of migration deterrence. Shanaah, a Research Fellow, is
 one of only ten academic appointees to the Advisory Board of the UK Government’s Commission
 for Countering Extremism.

 Our Political Theory cluster has introduced important new lines of scholarship in normative political
 theory, Anglo-American analytical political philosophy, continental political philosophy and the
 history of political thought, thus bridging the most important methodological divides within the field.
 The award of a three-year Spencer Foundation grant to Clayton, Mason and Swift for their faith
 schooling project confirmed PAIS as the leading UK hub for research into the political ethics of
 childhood and schooling. During the first lockdown, Sorell was appointed to the Security and
 Policing subgroup of SAGE, the Government’s Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies. Caney
 addressed the 2020 UN Executive Committee retreat on Governance and Ethics for the Future,
 on the invitation of the Secretary-General António Guterres and the Director of the UN
 Environment Programme Inger Andersen.

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 (1.4) RESEARCH AND IMPACT CLUSTER, CENTRE AND CLOUD STRUCTURE

 We have met the REF2014 objective of maintaining our historic strength in International Political
 Economy and International Relations and Security, while rebalancing overall through strategic
 staffing investments in Comparative Politics and Political Theory. Just as importantly, we have
 increasingly embedded our six research centres and eight impact clouds into our cluster structure,
 so that none now acts truly independently. Together they provide a dynamic context for all
 colleagues to refine their approaches, arguments and analytical skills [REF5b-1.1], as well as
 helping grant applications to mature [REF5b-3.1] and ensuring that everyone is able to recruit only
 the highest quality PhD students and postdoctoral fellows [REF5b-2.5/2.6]. Clusters represent the
 broad areas of the subject field in which we are active, centres the substantive topics in which we
 have built critical staffing mass, and clouds the areas in which our public engagement activities
 are concentrated. We encourage the relationship between clusters, centres and clouds to evolve
 in a bottom-up manner tailored to the needs of their members, and we provide PAIS money to
 fund their activities on that basis. Space has been created in termly Research Away Days and
 the weekly Departmental Seminar Series for convening ongoing discussions about enhancing
 colleagues’ experience of this structure.

 Figure 1 maps the PAIS-managed University Research Centres and the departmental impact
 clouds onto our clusters. The incremental development of our centre structure reflects the long-
 term growth of the Department and the related development of researcher concentration in
 different areas of substantive intellectual concern. The introduction of all clouds simultaneously
 in 2014 signalled a step-change in the desire to project our findings more systematically to non-
 academic audiences and to use those findings to bring about progressive social change. We used
 our two-day Impact Festival in November 2016 to turn into a genuinely national debate what was
 already our ongoing process of self-reflection about how broadly impact might be conceptualised
 in Politics and International Studies.

 The complex interactions between the three layers of the PAIS research structure encapsulate the
 flexible and vibrant nature of departmental research understood as a whole. Different groupings
 from different clusters, centres and clouds come together on different topics to help drive
 enhanced individual understanding of real-life issues. We have always emphasised puzzle-
 oriented research that confronts the problems people navigate in their everyday lives. Our clusters
 allow us to contemplate the way in which such problems are dealt with in the established academic
 literature; our centres hone our conception of how they are experienced as lived realities; our
 clouds connect us to the networks through which those realities might be changed for the better,
 so that ever more people can live fulfilling, dignified lives free from oppression. The University’s
 most recent Research Strategy commits it to encouraging provocative research, especially when
 the provocation leads to material changes to make everyday life fairer, more just, more equal
 [REF5a-1.0]. For PAIS, that merely institutionalises still further how we already defined our
 research mission.




                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

      FIGURE 1:
   PAIS CLUSTERS,
    CENTRES AND
       CLOUDS




                                          Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 (1.5) INTERDISCIPLINARY RESEARCH

 We have always been an avowedly interdisciplinary Department in how we locate Politics and
 International Studies within the social sciences, arts and humanities (marked in green and blue
 respectively in Figure 2). PAIS has five people in the Stanford University global list of the top 2%
 of the world’s leading scientists in 2020, but only one, Vaughan-Williams, is in one of our
 constituent subject fields (International Relations). The others are in adjacent disciplines: Caney
 (Philosophy); Coaffee (Urban and Regional Planning); Elden (Geography); and King (Sociology).
 However, we have also made concerted efforts over the last decade to transcend interactions only
 with close-to-home disciplines and to move towards additional further-afield engagements with
 researchers in STEM subjects (in red in Figure 2). One-half of our output pool is influenced by
 outward-looking collaborations beyond PAIS [REF5b-4.1], and fully one-fifth by structured
 collaboration with colleagues beyond the social sciences.

 The fact that we now have increasingly intensive relationships with scholars whose research has
 very different starting assumptions to our own owes much to University initiatives to create cross-
 campus dialogue [REF5a-2.1/2.3]. Further-afield interdisciplinarity has arisen primarily from
 collaboration with Warwick’s Alan Turing Institute [REF5a-2.12.2] and the University’s Global
 Research Priorities (GRPs) [REF5a-2.9.1]. A framework has been established to give Warwick
 researchers the confidence to think beyond their normal disciplinary boundaries, and we have
 seized those opportunities with gusto. There are currently ten GRPs receiving significant financial
 support from the University. PAIS colleagues have played numerous key coordinating roles within
 them, helping to align wider Warwick agendas with our own interdisciplinary activities and
 aspirations. Rai was the academic co-lead of GRP International Development from 2011 as it
 facilitated the founding of WICID in 2019; Jones was a steering committee member. Rethel and
 Homolar were respectively academic co-leads of GRP Global Governance’s finance and security
 streams for eight years from 2011; Saward was a board member. Kuzemko has been on the
 steering committee for GRP Energy, initially as a PhD student, since its launch in 2011. She also
 sits on the ESRC Standing Group on Energy Policy, Politics and Governance. Coaffee has been
 the academic co-lead since GRP Sustainable Cities was formed in 2013. Aldrich has been the
 academic co-lead of GRP Cyber Security since its inception in 2015; Christou (a member of the
 UK’s Information Assurance and Advisory Council) and Sorell (Vice-Chair of the Home Office
 Biometrics and Forensics Ethics Group) are co-founders and steering committee members. All
 three played pivotal roles in Warwick receiving National Cyber Security Centre gold standard
 recognition under its UK Academic Centres of Excellence scheme. Bove has been a board
 member of GRP Behaviour, Brain and Society since its rebrand in 2019.

 The centrality of PAIS voices within the GRPs embeds concerns about the politics and ethics of
 governance dynamics into STEM research at Warwick [REF5a-2.3/4.3]. These same questions
 are also centre-stage in the closer-to-home collaborations that we pursue across the social
 sciences, arts and humanities. Colleagues have established 15 outward-looking networks with
 cross-departmental and even cross-institutional reach from within PAIS; they also play leading
 roles in a further 15 interdisciplinary networks established in partner departments/institutions.




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


                                              FIGURE 2:
                                          INTERDISCIPLINARY
                                            CONNECTIONS




                                                        Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 (1.6) IMPACT CASE STUDIES

 Our case studies all reveal the imprint of the PAIS research environment, being models of how we
 harness the organisation of our research to our approach to impact. Each has underpinning
 research that sits at an interdisciplinary crossroads; each has been facilitated by colleagues’
 participation in research groupings that populate the in-between spaces within our cluster, centre
 and cloud structure; each works with a variety of policy-process stakeholders to increase the
 number of access points through which policy-makers can be held to account; each operates to a
 vision of social change designed to challenge the institutionalisation of harms.

 Looking ahead, important new capacity has been added to our impact activities in the areas of
 climate change (Caney, Hyams, Page), new energy futures (Kuzemko), counter-radicalisation and
 public health (Heath-Kelly), social care (Elias, Rai), trade policy (Richardson, Siles-Brügge), and
 policing and security (Sorell). All exhibit the features that make them recognisably PAIS impact
 work. Consistent with our general commitment to research internationalisation, we are dedicated
 to raising the minimum ethical standards by which lives are currently being led around the world.
 This involves challenging overly narrow understandings of policies that are politically acceptable
 to the mainstream population, and challenging even what is meant by ‘the mainstream population’.
 We strive to widen the conception of what is politically possible across all issue areas on which
 we conduct research, as a means of making the realm of normatively permissible political activities
 respond more directly to visions of how we might learn to live together more peacefully, equitably
 and sustainably.

 2. PEOPLE

 (2.1) OVERSIGHT OF DEPARTMENTAL RESEARCH

 We have always stood against the introduction of a targets-based culture for research outputs,
 income or impact. Instead, the role of Research and Impact Committee is to work closely with
 ED&I Committee in pursuit of our people-centred objectives [REF5b-1.1/1.2]. Its membership
 comprises representatives of all career stages and all clusters, centres and clouds, plus those with
 responsibilities for enacting our strategies for career progression and for monitoring our
 Researcher Development Concordat, Athena Swan and broader ED&I commitments.

 Every decision about the structure of our research environment must be consistent with our
 departmental ethos, and consequently requires checks for consistency with our Researcher
 Development Concordat and Athena Swan action points, as well as formal ED&I Committee
 approval. As per our commitments at REF2014, we have made the practical enactment of gender
 equality a specific area of focus for this REF cycle. In addition, we have also completed all of the
 background analysis so that we can now press ahead over the next phase of our evolution with
 deepening analogous workplace reforms in relation to all other protected characteristics. Our
 approach to workplace equality has seen us operate within the broad Dignity at Warwick
 framework [REF5a-3.4] to produce PAIS-specific norms of communication and action that reflect
 expected behaviour under the Equalities Act 2010. This has led to the development of multiple
 ‘open space’ conversations, through which all colleagues – but especially those with protected
 characteristics – have been empowered to activate discussions about how the Department can
 enhance its working environment in ED&I terms. Such conversations have led to many initiatives
 that the Senior Management Team has eagerly sponsored. Our coronavirus response provides


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 numerous examples: guaranteeing that working patterns are sufficiently flexible to accommodate
 home-schooling; supporting colleagues in shielding households to maintain their research profile
 even if their normal research sites remain out-of-bounds; providing preferential protection of
 research time first to those who are newest to the profession; ensuring that those whose lives
 have been most disrupted by the pandemic receive priority allocations of available student
 research assistants. The Department’s involvement in individuals’ research thus focuses on
 developing networks of nurture within which everyone can flourish, even in the most inauspicious
 of circumstances. Far from being knocked off-course by Covid-19, our experiences during the
 pandemic have merely increased our determination to provide workplace equality for all.

 The pairs for our departmental mentoring scheme and for our involvement in the University’s
 Personal Development Review process are only confirmed once requisite ED&I checks have been
 performed. We can call upon the experience of some of the most senior members of the
 profession to populate such pairs. They have included since 2014 five elected members of the
 Academy of Social Sciences (Breslin, Croft, Grant, Hughes, Rai), one of its Australian equivalent
 (Stone), two of the Royal Historical Society (Aldrich, Moran), and one of the British Academy
 (Elden). However, we have made conscious efforts increasingly to align such meetings to the
 practices of reverse mentoring, which allow the person being mentored to say what working in the
 Department feels like from their perspective, rather than having assumptions about what is
 relevant set by the mentor. This has been particularly important in enabling colleagues with
 protected characteristics to disclose how they encounter the effects of what might otherwise
 remain invisible disadvantage when formulating their research goals. The ED&I Committee also
 ensures that SMT roles rotate fairly and equitably, as well as that prolonged periods of SMT
 membership do not impede access to research time and study leave. Everyone who has been
 eligible to apply for study leave during the reporting period has had it granted, with one term’s
 credit accruing for every six worked. The PAIS Study Leave Committee advises how this
 investment in colleagues’ time might materialise in long-term plans for research development,
 supplementing the more immediate orientation of ongoing mentoring.

 (2.2) CORE STAFFING STRATEGY

 We have always only recruited the brightest and best of early-career generations; we then trust
 our internal support structures to persuade them to commit long-term to building their career in
 PAIS. Only three of the 71 staff members who have held permanent contracts with us over the
 last decade have left Warwick for other UK HEIs. This focus on retention promotes active buy-in
 to our research culture from across the Department, and it enables that culture to become more
 deeply embedded than under higher levels of staff turnover. It also makes succession planning
 easier, because leadership roles in our clusters, centres and clouds – as well as in Research and
 Impact and ED&I Committees – can evolve over time to ensure that none becomes overly
 dependent on any single person.

 We have consolidated our last large expansion in staff numbers, which followed the 2010 changes
 to the student fees regime. Our appointments in this cycle have been overwhelmingly of early-
 career colleagues, knowing that they will benefit most from our established research support
 structures and that they have the longest-term stake in helping us to build an even more successful
 Department. Atikcan, Blanchard, Bove, Clarke, di Salvatore, Gelepithis, Heath-Kelly, Jones,
 Kuzemko, Long, Murr, Parr, Rogers, Welland and Wells have been appointed to Assistant
 Professorships; Hyams, Kibris and Siles-Brügge to Associate Professorships; and Caney and King
 to personal chairs.


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Every stage in the recruitment cycle is subjected to rigorous ED&I checks, with the Equality,
 Diversity and Inclusion Committee signing off on the wording of the advert, the composition of the
 shortlist, and the structure of the interview day. Adverts specifically reach out to potential
 colleagues with protected characteristics who are currently underrepresented in the Department.
 Members of relevant clusters assist the appointment panel, all of whom have undertaken
 increasingly demanding ED&I training related to interview technique and post-interview decision-
 making [REF5a-3.3]. As a joint Athena Swan/Researcher Development Concordat action point,
 we have moved from disallowing all-male appointment panels to now requiring gender-equal
 panels.

 (2.3) CAREER PROGRESSION

 The success of our core staffing and research oversight strategies is borne out by how swiftly
 PAIS colleagues typically move through the ranks. Fourteen of the eighteen post-2014 appointees
 who were eligible for promotion have already secured at least one. Colleagues promoted to
 Associate Professor by completing probation during the reporting period have needed, on
 average, only two-fifths of the University’s standard five-year probation period to do so. Overall,
 PAIS staff can boast 41 successful promotion applications since 2014, with the average time to
 promotion from initial appointment/previous promotion being just 34 months. More than half of
 these promotions have gone to women on an FTE of approximately one-third/two-thirds,
 compared with fewer than one-in-five between RAE2008 and REF2014. Three-in-ten of those
 eligible for promotion – six women, five men – have actually been promoted more than once in the
 last seven years, with Bove, Elias and Heath-Kelly each securing three separate promotions.

 The Department has significantly enhanced its support for colleagues seeking career progression.
 In 2018 the University introduced a new system to govern the decision-making process around
 promotion applications, publishing transparent criteria to help colleagues understand when they
 had met the standards for elevation to the next career stage [REF5a-3.3]. A PAIS Promotions
 Committee with ED&I Committee participation was convened the year before. It provides a much
 more robust oversight mechanism for supporting colleagues making promotion applications,
 taking that responsibility away from one-to-one conversations with departmental mentors and
 allowing a more panoramic view of career progression within the Department as a whole. The
 new system explicitly encourages all colleagues – especially those with protected characteristics
 – to raise concerns about how the promotions process makes assumptions about performance
 that might be particularly challenging for them. It also enables the Promotions Committee to work
 on tailored solutions on a case-by-case basis.

 (2.4) GENDER EQUALITY

 Our REF2021 return includes a higher proportion of staff who are women than ever before (up
 one-fifth from REF2014 and three-fifths from RAE2008). Supported by extensive ED&I checks
 governing our output selections – as outlined in the 4,000-word PAIS addendum to the Warwick
 Code of Practice [REF5a-3.5/3.6/3.7] – they have made a bigger contribution per FTE to our output
 pool than ever before. The progress over the last three cycles has been from ten and twenty-two
 percentage points below proportionality to now one percentage point above proportionality. Many
 are making their way into senior positions, as we predicted seven years ago. Since 2014, Koinova,
 Lynch and Squire have been promoted to Professor from Associate Professor and Elias from
 Assistant Professor. As we look ahead, we seem certain to narrow further the remaining gender
 gap at professorial level using internal promotions, as we have never had a stronger cohort of
 women in mid-career positions. Also, since our last large expansion began in 2011, more women

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 than men have been appointed to the early career positions which feed the pipeline into senior
 ranks.

 Moreover, PAIS does not only look different because of the heightened prominence of women
 within the Department; it also feels a different place to work because of how deeply the
 commitment to gender equality is now institutionalised throughout all of our workplace practices.
 Our Athena Swan Bronze Award, currently tenable until 2023, reflects the successful change in
 culture. We have transcended our previous commitment to creating a gender-inclusive working
 environment by demanding that nothing less than full gender equality is sufficient. This has
 involved activating a listening and learning process that has received buy-in from every PAIS
 member. Departmental mentoring, the Personal Development Review process, ED&I Committee
 focus groups and anonymous staff questionnaires have all been repurposed to ensure that
 everyone is conscious of what must be done to guarantee active workplace gender equality. This
 objective is now so deeply ingrained in the Department’s collective consciousness and practices
 that it is both unthinkable and structurally impossible for further changes to our working
 environment to be introduced without a gender impact assessment first being undertaken as part
 of wider ED&I analysis.

 The phrasing of job adverts has been thoroughly overhauled. On the advice of colleagues with
 protected characteristics, it now emphasises measures of departmental collegiality that permit
 healthy work-life balances and appeals to groups underrepresented in the Department to let them
 know how they will be supported. Induction processes have been reconstituted, with probation
 expectations set according to these same norms. Regular demystifying promotions events are
 held, laying out various routes to meeting the University’s promotions criteria and inviting female
 colleagues to talk through their recent successes for the benefit of future applicants. Since the
 new Warwick Academic Returners Fellowship was introduced in 2015, departmental support has
 been provided to all eight eligible colleagues to take full advantage of the scheme [REF5a-3.4].
 Anyone returning from a period of statutory maternity leave is now provided with an equivalent
 amount of time to focus on reactivating their research agendas before they have to resume a full
 departmental workload. PAIS research funds go beyond the University Conference Care Support
 Fund in meeting caring needs to facilitate colleagues’ fieldwork as well as to help them deliver
 papers. Feedback through various listening and learning mechanisms has shown that female
 colleagues now feel better supported to have thriving research careers. The fact that their output
 pool contribution has exceeded proportionality and many are moving quickly through the career
 stages offers proof to back such positive impressions.

 (2.5) PhD PROGRAMME

 The PAIS PGR programme continues to prosper across all specialist subfields within the
 Department. All enrolments have been for PhDs rather than professional doctorates, and numbers
 have risen across all clusters despite recent funder retrenchment. In the pre-austerity decade to
 2009/2010 we had an average starting cohort of 10.8, in the decade of depressed external funding
 to 2019/2020 nearly double that of 20.5. We have significantly surpassed our previous record of
 securing PhD studentships from 50 different sources in one cycle, with a new best of 68. As befits
 our status as an avowedly international Department, this includes studentships funded by the
 Governments of Algeria, Belgium, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Denmark, Finland, Indonesia,
 Japan, Kazakhstan, Kurdistan, Mexico, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea,
 Switzerland, Taiwan and Turkey, as well as various Commonwealth and EU schemes. Warwick
 recorded its highest score in the QS2020 World University Rankings for international students
 (99.2/100), and three-quarters of PAIS PhD students over the past twenty years have come from

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 outside the UK. Our programme has become ever more international, over the last three
 RAE/REF cycles recruiting students from 23, 39 and 45 countries. This mirrors the cosmopolitan
 nature of our staff profile, with over half of colleagues having received training overseas.

 The same ED&I standards apply for PGR as for staff recruitment, but more discerning practices
 for identifying suitable candidates and more demanding in-programme progression criteria have
 generated a virtuous circle of simultaneously enrolling more students and enhancing our within-
 four-year completion rate. Our objective for the future is to keep that latter figure at the 95% level
 it has maintained since an internal programme review in 2017, which is roughly twenty percentage
 points higher than at the start of the reporting period. Additional skills training has been introduced
 as one means of boosting this figure. Where previously such training was undertaken solely on
 an opt-in basis – our students can still sign up for an unlimited number of events delivered by the
 Department, the ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership, the University and external providers
 [REF5a-3.9.2/3.8/3.10] – now we have supplemented this approach by also tying completion of
 our own mandatory research training to end-of-year progression criteria. Every PAIS PhD student
 receives in-house the necessary level of generic skills training commensurable with successful
 completion of every intermediate year of study, and the Department provides financial support
 should students need to go beyond Warwick to satisfy their specialist skills needs. Additionally,
 our PGRs are helped to create their own networks and organise their own seminar series – some,
 like the Warwick Critical Finance Group and the Warwick Political Geography Group, have now
 achieved international prominence – and we continue to run our popular advice series providing
 students with insights into the academic careers to which so many aspire.

 PhD students coming to PAIS consequently know that, whatever their specialist field of study, they
 will receive strong supervisory, pastoral and programmatic support, helping them to fulfil their
 potential and realise their ambitions. The number of PAIS-supervised PGRs moving into an
 academic post has increased from 66 in the last cycle to 103 in this. Well over half, 57/103, have
 gained permanent posts (equivalent to 37.75% and 68.21% of the relevant starting cohorts). One
 (Zeng) has moved through the professional ranks in one REF cycle all the way from PhD student
 to a full professorship. Internationalism and interdisciplinarity abound in these student
 destinations. Our PGRs have secured permanent lecturing posts in 26 different countries since
 2014, plus multiple-year postdocs in a further seven. Their academic labour market successes
 have taken them into Departments in the following 17 subject fields as well as our own: Business
 Studies; Communication and Culture; Computer Science; Development Studies; Economics;
 Environmental Science; European Studies; Geography; Global Sustainable Development; Law;
 Manufacturing Science; Middle Eastern Studies; Organisational Management; Philosophy; Social
 and Behavioural Sciences; Sociology; and Theology. A further 23 have won Early Career
 Fellowships at Warwick’s Institute of Advanced Study specifically to receive additional
 interdisciplinary training on completion of their PhDs [REF5a-2.9.2].

 We have developed strategies designed to correct the leaky pipeline that sees proportionately
 fewer women move from MA to PhD study across our subject field as a whole. Over the last
 decade, our enrolments were in the ratio of 57 men to 43 women. Room for improvement remains,
 but this is better than the 60:40 ratio cited in Pflaeger et al’s most recent research as the likely
 long-term upper limit for our discipline, as well as significantly better than our 70:30 ratio for the
 previous decade. The change has been driven primarily by internal progression from our own
 Master’s programme, as we institutionalised our Athena Swan action point to communicate earlier
 and more clearly with female MA students who are performing at a level commensurable with
 entry into doctoral study. Our new programme features have also helped to stave off leaky-
 pipeline effects for those exiting doctoral study. Taking Plaeger et al’s 60:40 ratio once again as

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the benchmark, 41.94% of PAIS-supervised PhD students securing academic employment since
 2014 have been women, and 44.23% of those securing permanent posts have been women.

 (2.6) SUSTAINABLE CAREERS

 We have always made departmentally-approved research support available to Research Fellows
 and Teaching Fellows on the same basis as to permanent staff. Everyone in such posts is
 supported with an annual personal allowance and departmental conference and fieldwork support.
 Claims on these budgets were 52.96% higher for fixed-term staff members than those with
 permanent contracts, totalling £1,200 per year for every RF/TF. We also provide one-to-one
 mentoring, advice on every aspect of research activity from grant-getting to publication plans, and
 help to build research and impact networks and broader research profiles both in our subject field
 and beyond. This is no small undertaking, as there have been 164 years of RF and 69 years of
 TF experience in PAIS over the last decade. We have actually provided this support 270 times
 over for ECFs when adding the interdisciplinary postdoctoral fellows we mentor on behalf of
 Warwick’s Institute of Advanced Study [REF5a-2.9.2]. Consistent with our overall objective to
 build realisable progression routes between every level from PhD student to professor, our aim is
 always to assist RFs/TFs in creating sustainable career paths [REF5a-3.1]. Seven-out-of-every-
 eight fixed-term contract RF/TFs employed during the reporting period remain in academic
 employment, 33 of whom have moved into permanent posts. One (Cormac) graduated from a TF
 to a full professorship within 6 years.

 3. INCOME, INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES

 (3.1) GRANT CAPTURE PROCESS

 We have introduced a new structure for overseeing the pursuit of research income, with the goal
 of making the grant-getting experience more inclusive than previously. This was an ED&I
 response designed to assist colleagues with their career planning, recognising how important the
 receipt of research income can be to academic career progression [REF5b-2.3]. It has meant first
 identifying and then confronting the barriers that might otherwise hold back individual members of
 staff when they seek to activate a new research project. We have now established structures that
 enable all colleagues to experience support closely tailored to their individual circumstances as
 they target the grant that will help them realise their ambitions. The University’s Research and
 Impact Services is always available to assist with the technical aspects of applications [REF5a-
 1.7/2.6], and the Department’s Research and Impact Committee helps with content. Such internal
 support continues in the post-award phase. The need to manage more awards than ever before
 – with an in-cycle peak of 82 live grants open simultaneously – means that these activities are
 now supported by an existing 0.7FTE and a new 0.5FTE departmental position.

 A new PAIS post of Director of Administration for Research was created in 2015 and a new
 academic role of Director of Research Income in 2019. They work together to identify sources of
 potential research funding for colleagues from as wide a base of schemes as possible. They then
 talk jointly with colleagues to discuss funding plans on a case-by-case basis, so that everyone can
 be matched individually to the most suitable scheme for meeting their immediate career objectives.
 Those conversations fit into broader departmental dissemination structures to ensure that grant-
 getting activities are fully aligned with our objectives for increasing the proportion of PAIS research
 available in open access format [REF5a-2.5/2.10] and for ensuring that the highest standards of
 research integrity are met [REF5a-2.5/2.11].


                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The Director of Administration for Research and the Director of Research Income are also the first
 point of contact for colleagues who have grant applications in train, using the collective expertise
 of Research and Impact Committee to organise internal peer review as grant applications move
 beyond the first-draft stage. The type of support provided reflects what the applicant has
 highlighted as the particular hurdles they need to overcome. It therefore manifests our
 commitment to embedding the techniques of reverse mentoring as a departmental norm: the
 initiative is always taken by the person concerned to request the specific type of support that will
 best help their career planning. This provides both greater flexibility and greater inclusivity when
 seeking to nurture colleagues’ application skills.

 (3.2) SUPPORTING RESEARCH EXCELLENCE

 Our desire to enhance grant-getting support is driven by how important research income has
 become to research outcomes for so many colleagues [REF5b-1.1]. It is obviously still possible
 to use purely desk-based research to produce publications that leave a lasting mark on
 disciplinary-level debates, and our output pool would be much diminished if we assumed anything
 else. This is evidence of our continued commitment to research pluralism, with Swift’s desk-based
 studies Family Values and Educational Goods sitting in the same output pool as Pratt’s
 ethnographic study of female political activists in Egypt, Jordan and Lebanon, Embodying
 Geopolitics; Atikcan’s mixed-methods study of public opinion towards European integration,
 Framing the European Union; and Moran’s archival study of the CIA’s treatment of secrecy and
 censorship, Company Confessions. The latter are representative of research which could only
 possibly have been conducted on the back of successful grant-capture activities. Ever more of
 our research as a Department is of this nature (one-third of our output pool at RAE2008, two-fifths
 at REF2014, but now three-quarters).

 Research income in our subject field buys two all-important commodities: additional time to reflect
 on what is required to deliver the next major publication and the space to be away from the office
 to undertake the preparatory research, fieldwork and data collection to make that publication
 possible. Our commitment to an overall strategy of research internationalisation makes it
 particularly important that we engage as extensively as possible with grant-getting activities so
 that colleagues can be wherever in the world is necessary to activate their research plans
 successfully. During the reporting period, grant capture has facilitated fieldwork in 54 countries
 across the following eight regions. Middle East and North Africa: Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, Malta,
 Morocco, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates; Sub-Saharan Africa: Côte d’Ivoire,
 Ghana, Kenya, Mozambique, South Africa, South Sudan, Uganda, Zambia; Central America and
 the Caribbean: El Salvador, Mexico, Panama, Trinidad and Tobago; North America: Canada,
 United States; South America: Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Guyana; Asia: China, Hong
 Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Kyrgyzstan, Malaysia, Singapore; Central and Eastern Europe:
 Armenia, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Hungary, Kosovo, Turkey; Western Europe: Belgium, Finland,
 France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland. In
 each case the fieldwork has been accompanied by public engagement activities with policy-
 makers and/or civil society groups attempting to enact greater scrutiny of the effects of policy.
 Thus we see how colleagues are using grant successes to enhance their outputs and outreach
 profiles simultaneously.

 All of our impact case studies are built upon multiple instances of research income capture,
 through which colleagues leveraged connections developed during the ensuing fieldwork into an
 expanded network of impact partners [REF5b-1.6]. Unusually for our subject field, two are written

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 specifically from the perspective of the global South – those led by Lynch and Squire – following
 sustained periods when the respective researchers and their teams were embedded locally
 [REF5a-2.1]. While not being constructed explicitly in the same way, our other impact case studies
 – those led by Aldrich/Moran, Breslin and King – are nonetheless equally sensitive to the need to
 emphasise to western policy-makers that their stakeholders extend far beyond their own country.
 When policy-makers seem reluctant to heed such calls, impact can still be secured through
 creating accountability mechanisms that bring to the public’s attention the prevailing global pattern
 of inclusion/exclusion. Atikcan, Bove, Caney, Coaffee, Elias, Hassan, Heath-Kelly, Hyams, Jones,
 Kibris, Koinova, Long, Murr, Page, Pratt, Rai, Rethel, Richardson, Siles-Brügge, Sorell, Stierl,
 Vaughan-Williams and Welland have also all undertaken impact work since 2014 which exhibits
 the same desire to ensure that national and international policy-making processes ultimately
 reflect local voices. This demonstrates our commitment to using grant-getting to explore the outer
 limits of impact internationalisation.

 Such goals are now fully incorporated into our strategy for supporting impact on an individual basis
 [REF5b-1.4]. Impact cloud events are organised specifically to facilitate discussions of how
 colleagues might connect themselves within local and national networks that operate in the sphere
 of international policy-making. Until the coronavirus crisis led to temporary cuts to departmental
 research budgets, all academic colleagues received an annual £250 allowance to help them
 identify and begin working within the networks that provide the most sustainable assistance to
 their future impact plans. This was on top of annual allowances of £500 and £1,500 for general
 research purposes and conference attendance, with this additional money also able to be
 redirected towards impact activities on the agreement of Research and Impact Committee.
 Mentoring meetings and Personal Development Reviews are used on an ongoing basis to monitor
 progress towards colleagues successfully upskilling their impact practices.

 (3.3) RESEARCH INCOME CAPTURE

 At RAE2001 we were able to report overall research income spend of £1¾ million over the duration
 of the cycle, at RAE2008 £3 million, and at REF2014 £6 million. Our total research income spend
 for the last seven years was £11,803,000. This is a factor increase of 2 on REF2014, 4 on
 RAE2008 and 7 on RAE2001, as against a respective factor increase on FTE of 1.3, 1.8 and 2. It
 equates to a 20-year increase in monthly research income spend from £29,307 to £140,512, which
 even when controlling for the Department doubling in size over that period is still a factor increase
 of 2.34 per FTE. Setting these numbers within the comparative frame of historical HESA
 benchmarking data, we have outperformed the average research income spend per FTE for other
 Russell Group Politics Departments by 19.23% (£37,200/FTE/year: £31,200/FTE/year). We are
 also 3.42% above the mean of the other four Departments alongside us in the Political Studies
 Association’s ‘REF2014 Big Five’ (£37,200/FTE/year: £35,970/FTE/year).

 However, even more important than the fact that we can report a doubling of our research income
 for the second REF cycle running is how we have achieved that outcome. We were aware that a
 small number of big wins were previously driving the headline figures and we committed ourselves
 at REF2014 to achieving a better balance in our research income capture across different career
 stages and different funders. Our new internal systems of support have now helped many more
 colleagues meet their research aspirations through successful grant-getting activities. We will
 strive to maintain the greater sustainability that has been brought to our income streams as grant-
 getting has been distributed more widely.



                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 At RAE2008, we reported that professors had been responsible for 95.67% of our aggregate
 research income capture. At REF2014, this figure was down to 68.69%, reflecting in part our
 ability to use the external labour market during a phase of marked expansion to ‘buy in’ a
 proportion of the non-professorial research income. Now it is down again to 43.00%, and with
 bought-in research income falling by three-fifths all but a tiny fraction of non-professorial research
 income is now generated through purely internal means. Compared with the previous two
 reporting periods, this represents 39 and 57 percentage-point increases in the share of our
 internally-generated research income capture going to non-professorial colleagues. As seniority
 differences have historically been gendered, we have also seen marked increases in the amount
 of research income being awarded to PAIS women as non-professorial staff have come more to
 the fore in our grant-getting successes. Our increasingly inclusive, proactive and individualised
 support for grant applications has clearly paid dividends in this regard. Over the past three cycles
 female colleagues have secured £77,752.46, £105,103.94, and now £231,753.80 of research
 income per FTE. This has been a contributing factor to their recent success in securing internal
 promotions and being represented more than proportionately within our output pool.

 A further source of imbalance has also been tackled. Historically, our successful grant-getting
 displayed a top-heavy reliance first on the Economic and Social Research Council and then on
 the ESRC and the European Research Council combined. Our attempt to mitigate such
 dependence was already under way before the twin effects of austerity and Brexit made it more
 necessary, with the Director of Administration for Research and the Director of Research Income
 now significantly enhancing departmental awareness of a broader array of available funding
 schemes. Over the last two reporting periods our diversification has become 1.73 and 2.58 times
 more pronounced than its RAE2008 baseline, as we have reduced our reliance on our top-two
 funders from 82.93% of our total research income capture in 2008 to 74.57% in 2014 and to
 56.03% now. Since 2014, colleagues have worked on projects supported by 45 additional bodies:
 other UK, overseas and international public funding agencies; the public sector both within and
 beyond Britain; and charitable trusts and private foundations from around the world.

 (3.4) CAREER ENHANCEMENT THROUGH GRANT-GETTING

 We have always encouraged all colleagues to apply for personal fellowships, even when they
 require subsidisation out of PAIS funds. At an early stage of the current reporting period we
 reached a position where we had achieved a ‘fellowship full house’ of simultaneously having both
 Early Career Fellows and Mid-Career Fellows or above for each of the three major national funders
 of the ESRC, British Academy and Leverhulme Trust. Some of these schemes have been
 discontinued, which means that the composition of such a full house is no longer directly
 comparable. It also means that Watson remains the only person in our subject field to have held
 an ESRC Professorial Fellowship during this reporting period. We have also been the only
 Department in any discipline in REF Main Panel C ever to have held four Leverhulme Major
 Research Fellowships concurrently (Aldrich, Breslin, Clift and Saward, with Elden and Mason also
 previous recipients and King’s starting in 2021). Sorell has held an ESRC Global Uncertainties
 Leadership Fellowship, Vaughan-Williams a Philip Leverhulme Prize Fellowship, Pratt a British
 Academy Mid-Career Fellowship, Fagan, Holmes, Rethel and Squire Leverhulme Research
 Fellowships, and Parr an ERC Marie Curie Individual Fellowship. Competitively-awarded named
 personal fellowships have been held by Rethel and Parr at Princeton University, Mason at the
 European University Institute, Rai at Jawaharlal Nehru and Delhi Universities, and Koinova at the
 Universities of Notre Dame and Duisburg-Essen. For the first time we have had a colleague
 embedded in the House of Commons Committee structure, as Siles-Brügge won a Parliamentary
 Office of Science and Technology Fellowship with the International Trade Committee. Also as a

                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 new departure, two of our most recent graduating PhD students (Akhter and Rumsby) have won
 ESRC Impact Acceleration Account Postdoctoral Innovation Fellowships, enabling them to focus
 time in the immediate post-PhD phase specifically on impact activities.

 We have always allocated time and resources to training the next generation of scholars for the
 profession. It is here that we have really raised the benchmark for our future performance. We
 have set a clear departmental record for any equivalent period by hosting 22 highly prestigious
 early career awards during the reporting period, with five Future Research Leaders Fellowships
 and two Postdoctoral Fellowships from the ESRC (Gruin, Hassan, Heath-Kelly, Homolar,
 Kuzemko and Beardsworth, Boutefeu-Moraitis), three Postdoctoral Fellowships and one Newton
 Fellowship from the British Academy (Bove, di Salvatore, Moran and Saberi-Zafarghandi), and
 eleven Early Career Fellowships from the Leverhulme Trust (Clarke, Copley, Heath-Kelly,
 Heyward, Kranke, Löfflmann, McDaniel, Moreno Zacarés, Nunes, Stierl, Welland). The European
 Research Council Starting Grants won by Heath-Kelly, Kibris and Koinova have all brought
 additional Research Fellows into the Department, as have numerous FP7, H2020, ESRC, GCRF,
 AHRC, EPSRC, Innovate UK and UKRI grants won for the Interdisciplinary Ethics Research Group
 by Hyams and Sorell and for the Warwick Institute for the Science of Cities by Coaffee, as well as
 Mason’s and Hyams’s Leverhulme Research Project grants, Squire and Vaughan-Williams’s
 ESRC Urgency grant and Clayton, Mason and Swift’s Spencer Foundation grant. Colleagues’
 grant successes have delivered to PAIS 82 of the 141 overall years of postdoctoral research during
 the current REF cycle, divided between 40 different people and funding on average approximately
 12 of the 20 RFs on our staff lists each year. These are also all clear departmental records. We
 ensure that these colleagues’ experience of life in PAIS is monitored very closely in relation to our
 overlapping Athena Swan and Researcher Development Concordat commitments [REF5b-2.1].
 ‘Open space’ conversations are encouraged so that fixed-term contract researchers can give voice
 to ways in which the Department might further assist them in enhancing their research identity
 through changing behaviours that impact most directly on them. ED&I Committee focus groups
 for fixed-term colleagues provide a further channel for the Department to listen, learn and improve.

 Going beyond Concordat best practice, we now track not only the destinations of RFs employed
 on externally-funded research projects, but also the destinations of TFs employed as temporary
 replacements when colleagues are bought out by grant successes. Surveys of the profession
 have suggested both a general tendency for people to get ‘stuck’ on this type of teaching-cover
 contract and a particular tendency for such pooling to disproportionately affect the progress of
 women into permanent posts. 17 TFs who were recruited within the reporting period following a
 colleague’s successful grant capture have moved into permanent posts, with a further seven
 securing subsequent multi-year research fellowships. That is everyone who came to the
 Department via this route since 2014 and whose original contract has now ended. 52.94% of
 those securing permanent posts are women [REF5b-2.4].

 4. COLLABORATION AND CONTRIBUTION TO THE RESEARCH BASE, ECONOMY AND
 SOCIETY

 (4.1) COLLABORATIVE NETWORKS

 We committed seven years ago to ensuring that our structured research collaborations became
 both broader and deeper. That commitment can be renewed, as we look forward to exploring
 what it would take to snowball our and our partners’ existing networks into a genuinely global
 complex of global affairs institutes. We have already enhanced our involvement in the Monash-


                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Warwick Alliance established in 2012 as the centrepiece of the University’s research
 internationalisation activities [REF5a-2.12.1]. Since then, we have exploited the mobility options
 it provides for both staff and PhD students, and held nine projects with Monash partners which
 have shaped seven pieces in our output pool. Recognising how engaged we were with the
 Monash-Warwick Alliance, the University has entrusted us over the last four years to develop on
 its behalf a similarly expansive institution-wide relationship with the Vrije Universiteit Brussel
 [REF5a-2.12]. The Brussels School of Governance was formally launched in February 2021,
 replicating our tried-and-tested method of signing dual-focus agreements to meet research and
 teaching strategic priorities simultaneously, as well as creating clear routes into PhD study. We
 now have an increasingly extensive structure of such agreements: Monash; VUB; Balsillie School
 of International Affairs, Waterloo, Canada; Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona; American
 University, Washington, DC; Nanyang Technological University, Singapore; Universität Konstanz,
 Germany. These connections have also allowed us, since April 2020, to co-organise the six-
 institution-four-continent interactive webinar series on the world during and after Covid-19, ‘Global
 Insights’.

 We are very well placed to assist the University in its Brexit-mitigation ambitions to sign more
 memoranda of understanding with higher education institutions within the European Union. We
 now enjoy formal relationships with 69 European universities amongst 177 partner organisations
 across 46 countries following successful ERC funding bids for our FP6 GARNET, FP7 DESURBS,
 EU-GRASP, EUSPRING, GR:EEN, HARMONISE, HECTOS, IDIRA, MAXCAP, SIIP, SOURCE,
 SURVEILLE and TRANSWORLD, and H2020 EL-CSID, MEDIA4SEC, PERICLES, PLOTINA,
 PRISMA and RESILENS projects. This is in addition to the three ERC Starting Grants and the
 Erasmus Mundus Joint Doctoral programme housed in the Department, and the Erasmus+ Jean
 Monnet Networks in Transatlantic Trade Politics and European Cyberdiplomacy that will shortly
 commence. One of the core group of such partners is the Université Libre de Bruxelles. Our role
 in supporting the creation of the Brussels School of Governance with the VUB thus allows us to
 work in closer collaboration with both of the major higher education institutions in Brussels.

 We will also be able to take further advantage of the University’s involvement in EUTOPIA [REF5a-
 2.12.1]. This is an initiative with Warwick and the VUB at its heart, also involving Göteborgs
 Universitet, l’Université Paris-Seine, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona and the Univerza v
 Ljubljani. In 2019 EUTOPIA was awarded Erasmus+ accreditation under the European
 Universities programme through a €5 million grant, allowing Warwick to become one of only three
 UK universities fully incorporated into this EU initiative for a new model of international research
 and education in Europe. Coupled with the ongoing applications to renew our Erasmus Mundus
 Joint Doctoral Programme in what will now be its third and fourth iterations as TRAJECTS and
 GEM-DIAMOND, this will become particularly important to sustaining our enduring involvement in
 joint doctoral supervisions across the European Union post-Brexit.

 Since the creation almost two decades ago of the PAIS-led, FP6-funded, 42-institution, 21-country
 GARNET network, our broader research links have always been developed in the context of
 commitments to enhanced cross-border PhD training. At the end of GARNET’s life its PhD School
 formed the basis of the successful GEM School bid (‘Globalisation, the European Union and
 Multilateralism’) for full Erasmus Mundus Joint Doctoral Programme status. We were one of only
 two UK departments to receive EMJD status in the first tranche of these highly prestigious awards
 in 2009, and at the conclusion of its ten-year life we were still one of only two UK social science
 departments and the only one in Politics and International Studies to have been recognised in this
 way. The consortium has grown into a nine-country, ten-institution, five-discipline PhD programme
 spanning pretty much the length and breadth of Europe with institutions from China (Fudan), Japan

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Waseda), Mexico (ITAM) and the US (Boston) as associate members. Its initial offshoot, GEM-
 STONES, has seen PAIS supervisors collaborate with l’Université de Genève, Copenhagen
 Business School and l’Université Laval in Québec City, as well as for the first time with non-
 academic partners offering student internships (McKinsey and the German Marshall Fund, both in
 Brussels). Its planned further iterations will extend even more both the geographical and the
 interdisciplinary reach of our consortium. TRAJECTS will focus on security issues, especially
 those in the cyber sphere, introducing interdisciplinary collaborations across the STEM subjects
 for the first time; GEM-DIAMOND will focus on new forms of political dissensus within the EU and
 associated concerns about the sanctity of the rule of law, embedding new interdisciplinary
 collaborations with lawyers.

 We also have a commitment to ensuring that our research collaborations facilitate enhanced public
 engagement and impact activities. Our position as a strategic partner of the VUB, allied with our
 ability to work within the €5m EUTOPIA agreement, anchors us more firmly than ever before within
 the heart of the international policy-making community in Brussels. This will be indispensable for
 maintaining our EU-focused impact networks when the sustainability of this element of our impact
 internationalisation strategy might otherwise be threatened by Brexit. Four of our submitted impact
 case studies at REF2014 and REF2021 – those led by Breslin, Grant, Squire and Youngs – have
 been built at least in part around contact with policy-makers, think tanks and civil society
 organisations in Brussels. Our participation in the Brussels School of Governance also allows us
 for the first time to branch out into delivering executive education programmes at taught Master’s
 and PhD levels. The target audience will be professionals working in government, international
 institutions and transnational civil society organisations within the city, further expanding the
 influence of our research within policy-making networks located there.

 (4.2) SCHOOLS OUTREACH PROGRAMMES

 We have overhauled our schools outreach programmes since 2014 to deepen our relationship
 with partner schools through repeat visits and repeat engagements with the same students. We
 have also thought more strategically about how to place colleagues’ ongoing research projects at
 the core of these activities. We have set aside considerable sums of money from live externally-
 funded research projects to take participating schools to landmark venues across the country as
 the culmination of this engagement. Taking those in London as just one example, Elden’s
 research has provided the means to run Shakespeare Awards days at the House of Commons;
 Heath-Kelly, Rai and Watson’s to run Colonial Hangover and Politics of Memorialisation days at
 the British Museum, the Shard, Chatham House and Portcullis House; and Clayton, Mason and
 Swift’s to run Rethinking Faith days at Westminster Abbey. We also work closely with the
 University on ThinkHigher, the Sutton Trust Summer School and Sutton Scholars initiatives, and
 but for the pandemic we would already have run the Political Studies Association’s first ever
 Summer School for sixth-formers.

 Our reputation is now such for centring schools outreach programmes on departmental research
 that we have been increasingly approached as potential partners by other organisations with ED&I
 and outreach targets of their own. During the reporting period, we have worked in this way with
 organisations at every level from the local to the international: the British Film Institute; Coventry’s
 Belgrade Theatre and Herbert Art Gallery and Museum; Coventry City of Culture 2021;
 International Slavery Museum; KPMG; Leamington History Group; Lloyds Banking Group; Lloyd’s
 of London; New York Historical Society; Royal Academy of Dramatic Art; Royal Institute of
 International Affairs; UNESCO Associated Schools Network; and United Nations Remembering
 Slavery Programme. Covid-19 closures of public meeting spaces saw us begin to innovate with

                                                                                                 Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 new forms of online outreach activities. Recent political developments provide significant
 incentives to further embed such work. In the wake of Black Lives Matter protests our schools-
 focused Colonial Hangover project has gained a very large social media following from academics,
 journalists, museum curators, artists, teachers, pressure groups, NGOs and heritage
 organisations. In 2021, the UN will be showcasing our work on how to teach potentially politically
 polarising issues in schools as an example of international best practice.

 (4.3) EXPANSIVE IMPACT NETWORKS

 True to our reporting-period objectives, we have moved to a position where impact is no longer a
 minority activity within the Department. We are committed to the idea that everyone can do impact,
 and that it is not restricted to those whose style of work allows them to promote particular solutions
 in public policy debates [REF5a-2.1]. Such activities are clearly very important, and all our case
 studies benefit from PAIS researchers operating within closed practitioner communities where
 policies are designed. In recent years, however, we have also been eager to orient departmental
 impact towards the broadest possible conception of policy change. The scope of relevant impact
 partners has similarly widened, as we seek both to influence policy-makers to remake individual
 policies and to help civil society actors change the underlying orientation of the policy-making
 process in general. This reflects an aspiration not only to allow lives to be led differently but also
 to show how they might be made better by thinking beyond the status quo.

 For instance, since 2014, members of all four PAIS research clusters have been supported out of
 departmental research funds to interact with and influence policy-makers across multiple elements
 of the UK network of governance, as shown in the first of the diagrams below, Figure 3. This has
 included government (in green), parliament (in red) and associated agencies (in blue). Such
 coverage is overlaid with connections nurtured with UK-based think tanks, interest groups,
 advocacy bodies and non-governmental organisations (as shown in grey in the second diagram,
 Figure 4).

 The diagrams capture the myriad channels PAIS researchers have used to influence thinking at
 every stage of the UK policy-making process. Considerable effort has been expended engaging
 those with responsibilities for agreeing and implementing policy within Westminster, Whitehall and
 their devolved equivalents, as well as groups representing civil society and professional bodies
 who scrutinise the way in which policy lands on the public. All of our submitted impact case studies
 have this hybrid identity. Consistent with the Department’s overall objectives for impact, they
 demonstrate important work that has taken place alongside policy-makers, but the activities on
 which they are based also enhance the capacity for others from beyond immediate policy-making
 circles to contest the prevailing social, economic and political settlements. This means providing
 the public with greater understanding of governance processes in an attempt to foster bridgeheads
 against the dynamics of a post-truth world. It is therefore essential to keep open the diverse lines
 of communication which are captured in the following two diagrams and which encapsulate the
 full range of our UK impact partners.




                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     FIGURE 3:
  LINKS WITH UK
  GOVERNANCE
    NETWORK




                                          Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     FIGURE 4:
  LINKS WITH UK
    ADVOCACY
     GROUPS




                                          Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 As is perhaps to be expected of a Department where so much of the research is international in
 nature, a good proportion of our UK-based impact work is within those elements of the governance
 structure that link Britain to the rest of the world. This is complemented by substantial
 engagements with policy-makers and NGOs beyond the UK. Since 2014, colleagues’ research
 findings have fed into discussions of whether to reset existing policy in the following countries:
 Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Côte
 d’Ivoire, Cyprus, Denmark, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany,
 Ghana, Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Lebanon,
 Luxembourg, Malaysia, Malta, Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique, Netherlands, Nigeria, Norway,
 Panama, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore,
 Slovakia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, South Sudan, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Trinidad and
 Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United States, Vanuatu, West Papua,
 Zambia and Zimbabwe. This represents the insertion of PAIS research findings into some stage
 of the policy-making process in countries accounting for three-in-four of the entire world
 population.

 In addition, colleagues have also collaborated with the following international institutions and their
 satellite agencies: EU Emergency Trust Fund for Africa; European Citizens Initiative; European
 Commission; European Council on Refugees and Exiles; EU Cybercrime Centre; European
 External Action Service; European Migrant Network; European Parliament; European Policy
 Centre; European Public Health Alliance; European Social Observatory; Europol; Frontex;
 International Centre for Migration Policy Development; International Committee of the Red Cross;
 International Labour Organization; International Monetary Fund; International Organization for
 Migration; Interpol; Médecins Sans Frontières; Mediterranean Hope; North Atlantic Treaty
 Organization; Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development; Organization for
 Security and Cooperation in Europe; Pacific Alliance; Save the Children; United Nations
 Committee on Enforced Disappearance; UN Development Programme; UN Educational, Scientific
 and Cultural Organization; UN Environment Programme; UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
 Change; UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights; UN Office of the High
 Commissioner for Refugees; UN Special Rapporteur on Truth, Justice, Reparation and
 Guarantees of Non-Recurrence; UN Special Rapporteur on the Human Rights of Internally
 Displaced Persons; and World Bank.

 (4.4) DISCIPLINARY GOOD CITIZENS

 Warwick colleagues continue to engage in numerous activities which add significant value to the
 research base in Politics and International Studies. Perhaps most obviously, we are extremely
 active within academic debates, using the publication process to consistently push their
 boundaries. Within the reporting period, we have: (i) written a total of 59 books, 528 journal articles
 and 290 book chapters; (ii) edited 57 journal special issues and 46 books; and (iii) had 17 journal
 special issues and 36 conference panels or workshops organised around our work. In recognition
 of the quality of this research, we have: (iv) worked on projects supported by 171 externally-funded
 and 74 Warwick-funded research grants, plus 24 impact grants; (v) held 61 visiting positions at
 universities in 27 countries; (vi) received 10 article, 8 book and 2 impact prizes; and (vii) been
 invited to deliver 264 keynote/plenary addresses at conferences/workshops/symposiums and a
 further 344 general departmental seminars.

 Warwick colleagues continue to invest considerable time in helping to produce the public goods
 on which researchers across the sector rely. Over the course of the reporting period, we have:

                                                                                                Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (viii) taken on 44 editorial positions for peer-reviewed academic journals, plus a further 45 as
 editorial or advisory board member; (ix) served as editors of 20 book series; (x) been appointed
 to 226 PhD external examiner positions; (xi) had our opinions sought on 27 appointment and 126
 promotion/tenure cases at universities across 25 different countries; (xii) been elected to 38
 committee memberships for professional associations or their related specialist groups; (xiii) held
 33 positions on Research Council Assessors Colleges or their UK equivalents; and (xiv) accepted
 28 complementary positions on behalf of equivalent bodies in 16 other countries. Sorell was
 appointed to the Scientific Committee of Nordforsk; Elden to the Geography Section Executive
 Committee of the British Academy; and Caney to the Philip Leverhulme Prize Committee for
 Politics. Broome has been a member of ISA Governing Council; Heath-Kelly, Squire and Welland
 Trustees of the BISA Executive Committee; Stone a founding board member of the International
 Public Policy Association; Kibris the executive director of the Network of European Peace
 Scientists; Lynch a council member of the African Studies Association of the UK and of the British
 Institute in Eastern Africa; Pratt a board member of the British Society for Middle East Studies. All
 were elected.

 The ever greater mark that PAIS colleagues are leaving on the profession – through their research
 findings, research leadership, nurturing of future scholars, public engagement, outreach and
 impact – is evidence of a Department exhibiting an accelerated upward trajectory. We are taking
 advantage of an explicitly inclusive research environment founded on the principles and practices
 of workplace equality. It has been purposefully designed to enable us to meet individual, shared
 and collective objectives and to ensure that the Department has become the best-ever version of
 itself through letting everyone flourish simultaneously.




                                                                                              Page 24
