Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: University of the West of England, Bristol

Unit of assessment: 27 English Language and Literature

Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Overview
The English Language and Literature unit is predominately located in the Department of Creative
and Cultural Industries (CCI), within the Faculty of Arts, Creative Industries and Education
(ACE). It comprises the work of 18 (15.7 fte) staff: two Professors, Charteris-Black and Mulvey-
Roberts (the latter promoted during the reporting period); one Associate Professor, Greenham;
one Deputy Head of Department, Piasecki; nine permanent Senior Lecturers on full-time
contracts, Boccardi, Davis, Kirjavainen, Little, Murphy, Robertson, Rogers, Rudge, and
Selleck (Rawstorne); and five permanent Senior Lecturers on fractional contracts, Alston,
Ballinger, Brennan, Ord and Sherwood. Seven members of the unit have been early career
researchers within the reporting period: Kirjavainen, Little, Murphy, Rogers, Rudge (a former
UWE PhD student), Selleck and Sherwood. Little is a member of staff in the Faculty of Health
and Applied Sciences who is researching in linguistics. The REF submission also includes
outputs, income and impact activities from one member of staff whose role is now managerial
but remains research active, Sakel, three retired Emeritus Professors, Coates, Jarvis and
Greenslade, a former Associate Professor, Beeching, and one fixed-term AHRC funded
Research Fellow, Parkin, now at another HEI.

In the 2014 REF, staff from English and Linguistics were returned to UoAs 28 and 29
respectively. Since then staff from English and Linguistics have been co-located on UWE’s
Frenchay campus to take advantage of complementary research strengths, particularly across
English Language and Linguistics. Consequently, staff working across both areas share a
collaborative research environment and are being submitted together to UoA 27.

Research Centre and Research Clusters
Research by the unit’s staff covers English Literature, English Language and Linguistics. Within
the Unit there are several research clusters and one formally-designated Research Centre:
    The Literary Bristol cluster is led by Mulvey-Roberts, whose 2015 edited collection
     Literary Bristol: Writers and the City, included essays by Ballinger, Jarvis, Butler and
     Brennan. Jarvis and Ballinger have also worked to enhance the scholarly and public
     understanding of Bristol and the West’s Romantic and Victorian writers. Mulvey-Roberts
     and Brennan have published on the importance of Angela Carter’s Bristol connection,
     which led to one of the unit’s impact case studies (see below).
    The Long Nineteenth Century cluster comprises the activities of several researchers.
     Ballinger and Davis focus on Victorian Literature, including adaptation and theories of
     consciousness respectively. Greenham and Jarvis research US and British Romanticism,
     Greenham publishing extensively on Ralph Waldo Emerson and Jarvis on a range of less
     familiar Romantics (Lovell, Southey) and romantic pursuits (swimming). Mulvey-Roberts
     is a Gothic scholar and editor of the quarterly journal Women’s Writing, which she co-
     founded in 1994. Women’s Writing is the leading journal on women writers up to the end
     of the long nineteenth century and has given rise to the book series ‘Historical Women
     Writers’, which she also edits. Mulvey-Roberts’ outputs in this cycle include her award-
     winning monograph Dangerous Bodies (2018), the collection Global Frankenstein (2019)
     and a three-volume edition of the letters of Caroline Norton (2019).
    The Twentieth Century Literature cluster includes Alston’s pioneering work on Female
     Genital Mutilation in children’s literature, Boccardi’s field-defining research into the neo-
     Victorian novel, Robertson’s interdisciplinary monograph on poor Southern Whites,
     looking at literature, photography and travel writing, and Rogers’ work on contemporary
     American poetry.

The Bristol Centre for Linguistics coordinates the activity of a number of research clusters:


                                                                                          Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   The Historical Linguistics cluster brings together onomasticians working on place-names
    and family names (Coates and Parkin) and sociolinguists working on semantic variation
    and change. The major AHRC-funded Family Names project culminated in the highly
    respected 4-volume Oxford Dictionary of Family Names in Britain and Ireland while
    Beeching’s 2016 CUP publication traces the history and meaning of Pragmatic Markers in
    British English.
   The Sounds Bristolian cluster draws on sociophonetic, corpus linguistic, experimental,
    ethnolinguistic and multimedia data in a range of community engagement-related research
    projects. Coates (2018) characterized the Bristolian accent and dialect, Blaxter and
    Coates (2020) and Blaxter with Beeching, Coates and Murphy (2019) explore the
    mechanisms of sound change, focusing on Bristolian. Alongside her work on Welsh
    bilingualism, Selleck’s research focuses on the Somali community and Rudge on the deaf
    community in Bristol. An interdisciplinary initiative on ‘filled pauses’ brings together
    sociolinguists Beeching, Murphy and Rudge and psycholinguists Kirjavainen and
    Piasecki in a jointly edited special issue of the Journal of Pragmatics, forthcoming.
   Charteris-Black’s monographs Analysing Political Speeches (2018) and Metaphors of
    Brexit (2019) and Murphy’s (2019) Discursive Construction of Blame illustrate the political
    wing of the (Critical) Discourse Analysis cluster. Media and government framing of the
    coronavirus are currently under study. Rudge (2019) takes an innovative multimodal
    approach to the analysis of magazine discourse and Selleck (2019) looks at the
    discourses around elite multilingualism.
   Finally, the Cognitive Linguistics cluster focuses on linguistic relativity, bilingualism,
    metaphor, pragmatics, and multi-modal approaches. The Whorfian focus of Kirjavainen’s
    2020 publication in Cognitive Science on English and Japanese speakers’ ability to recall
    number information is reflected, too, in a forthcoming internally funded interdisciplinary
    project on gender marking in (pro)nouns with Piasecki and others. The study of metaphor
    in political discourse, pragmatico-semantic change and implied meaning is pursued in
    Charteris-Black’s (2017) Fire Metaphors, Beeching’s 2017 analysis of just, and Murphy’s
    work on the pragmatics of speech-acts, respectively, and includes a 2019 special journal
    issue on ‘Strategic uses of politeness formulae’, co-edited by Murphy and Beeching.
    Greenham’s research into conceptual metaphor in the work of Ralph Waldo Emerson is an
    application of cognitive linguistics in a literary context. Rudge’s work on sign language
    (2015) and his interdisciplinary AI project training healthcare bots (see below), together
    with Little’s psycholinguistic work on iconicity and language evolution (2019) complete the
    range of work on cognitive linguistics ongoing within the Centre.

Research with Impact (see also section 4)
It is a primary objective to ensure that the unit’s research is disseminated as widely as possible
to promote engagement and impact. During the REF period, Impact Leads were identified and
awarded over £60,000 to support a range of targeted impact activities. For example, one of the
unit’s impact case studies, the Mulvey-Roberts led ‘Angela Carter in Bristol’ project, emerged
from the larger ‘Literary Bristol Cluster’, the aim of which is to transform public awareness of
Bristol’s literary culture. The centerpiece of this case study is the major 2016-17 exhibition of
artwork inspired by Carter at Bristol’s Royal West of England Academy (RWA), ‘Angela Carter’s
Strange Worlds’; which was also the first exhibition held on any writer in RWA’s 175 year history.
The exhibition had major impacts on the RWA, bringing in one of its largest and most diverse
audiences (over 11,000), creating new lending relationships, and developing curatorial practice.
Mulvey-Roberts also made a Massolit film for schools on Carter’s The Bloody Chamber, which
has had over 33,000 downloads to date. Mulvey-Roberts was interviewed for the BBC
television programme Novels That Shaped Our World and the radio programmes Front Row and
Beyond Belief. Associated with the ‘Literary Bristol’ project was Jarvis, Ballinger, Greenslade
and Mulvey-Roberts’ 2018 ‘Writing the West: Literature and Place’ MOOC, focusing, again, on
regional literature from the Romantics to Hardy, which has been taken by more than 3,000 online
learners from 115 countries. Jarvis’s research for the MOOC uncovered a forgotten Bristol
residence of the nineteenth-century Poet Laureate Robert Southey; Bristol Civic Society
subsequently recognized Jarvis’s discovery with a blue plaque.


                                                                                          Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The unit’s second impact case study is Alston’s ‘Critical Literacy’. Based on her research into
the family in children’s literature, this project aims to advance what Alston calls ‘critical literacy’,
that is the ability of children not just to read well, but to read with a critical lens, enabling complex
judgements about, for example, familial and cultural ideologies or the relationship between text
and image. Alston’s research has had impacts, regionally and nationally, on pupils, teachers,
trainee teachers and parents in a range of educational institutions. Alston is regularly asked by
the media to comment on children’s literature.

In addition to the unit’s case studies, the Greenham-scripted ‘School of Life’ YouTube video on
Ralph Waldo Emerson, based on his research into this canonical American writer, has had over
660,000 views. Coates’ £1.7m (2010-2017) AHRC-funded Family Names project (FaNUK)
disseminated its research in local schools, heritage sites (such as Bristol’s Arnos Vale
cemetery), the ‘Society for Name Studies in Britain and Ireland’, and local history groups, and is
available as a searchable online database hosted by Oxford University Press. The Bristol Centre
for Linguistics (BCL) ‘Sounds Bristolian’ project includes outreach activities, led by Selleck, with
Bristol’s Somali Resource Centre and Fonthill Primary School. The BCL also has partnerships
with the Bristol Speech and Language Therapy (SLT) Research Unit and SLT South West
Dementia group. Sherwood’s creative practice research focuses on the experience of second
and third generation holocaust survivors as presented in her acclaimed novel Testament (2018).
Sherwood has disseminated her research through blogs, interviews, literary festivals and
bookstores, alongside public engagement activities in Bristol and London. The European
Commission invited Charteris-Black to deliver seminars on political rhetoric and counter-
populist political communication in 2017 and 2018. Little, who works within UWE’s Science
Communication Unit, has spoken widely on the radio and at public events nationwide on the
relationship between linguistics and science fiction.

Research and the Curriculum
In line with UWE’s strategy, the unit’s research also informs teaching across the curricula. Key
examples include the Level 2 module ‘Studying Speech Communities’, which explores the
development of the ‘Bristol variety’ emerging from research by Beeching, Coates and Murphy.
Charteris-Black’s Analysing Political Speeches is the course book for Level 3 ‘Critical Discourse
Analysis’ and students undertake their own rhetorical analyses of recent political speeches using
the theoretical and methodological approaches discussed in the course book, many of which
Charteris-Black developed. Robertson's research on class, poverty and environmentalism is a
basis for the Level 2 module, ‘Literature in the World’ and underpins the Level 3 optional module,
‘Contemporary American Narrative’. Brennan’s work on Angela Carter and the Gothic informs
the Foundation Level module ‘Bristol, Arts and Culture’, the level 1 ‘Genre and Creative Writing,’
and, along with the research of Mulvey-Roberts, the level 3 ‘Gothic Literature’ module. BCL
also host annual research internships to encourage undergraduates to consider research
careers.

Research Management and Governance
Research in the unit is supported by an Associate Dean Research, a Director of Research and
Scholarship (Greenham), and Associate Heads of Department. This research leadership team
works to align the unit’s research with University priorities, to encourage a positive research
culture, to mentor and advance the research of ECRs, to identify research development needs,
to oversee the distribution of Faculty resources, to grow external funding, and to promote
research more broadly (see sections 2 and 3).

The unit’s researchers are committed to the Code of Good Research Conduct (2016) which
reflects UWE’s commitment to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity. The Faculty
Research Ethics Committee (FREC) supports staff to submit research ethics approval forms and
includes members from across a range of arts and humanities research areas as well as an
external reviewer; two members of the Unit, Greenham and Piasecki, have served on FREC in
the REF period. Issues can be escalated to the University Research Ethics Committee if
appropriate. An online Research Governance Record (RGR) collects all governance and ethics
information on projects in a single place and enables the Faculty to mitigate risks and track

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
compliance (a new system adopted in 2019).

Research Strategy 2014-2020
The unit’s research activities over the reporting period align with the University’s 2020 research
strategy, as described in the Institutional Statement, which comprised objectives designed to
promote and support research excellence:
    To achieve internationally excellent and world-class outcomes in selected areas of
      research that deliver impact, meets the needs of our community, a sustainable economy
      and society and feed the scholarship and enquiry that underpins our learning and teaching
      (see above);
    To enhance our capacity to recruit and retain high quality staff, and to promote employee
      engagement, career opportunities and job satisfaction (see Section 2).

Research Strategy 2020-2025
The unit’s strategic priorities over the next 5 years are driven by UWE’s 2030 strategy as
outlined in the Institutional Statement (in essence to produce ‘impactful, internationally excellent,
challenge-based research’), and are:
   1. to maintain and enhance the unit’s record of producing internationally excellent, world-
      leading, and impactful research;
   2. to align the unit’s research strengths with emerging University priorities, especially its
      ambitions to focus on interdisciplinary challenge-based research and to be culturally and
      civically engaged;
   3. to increase grant capture to support the unit’s research ambitions (see section 3).

In relation to the first priority, staff within the unit will continue to compete for external, Faculty
and University funding, and to use the scholarly time provided to produce the high quality
articles, book chapters and monographs that sustain and advance their disciplines and subject
areas, and to work with the University’s impact team (see section 3) to ensure maximum impact
and public engagement from those research outputs amongst diverse beneficiaries.

To achieve the second priority, the unit will extend Mulvey-Roberts’, Ballinger’s and
Beeching’s work on Bristol as a literary and linguistic space and develop Alston’s and Selleck’s
work with the Bristol City region and South Wales schools to ensure the unit’s research
continues to have civic and community reach. With respect to the University’s challenge-based
research ambitions, the Faculty has recently invested in Rogers and Greenham’s emerging
work with colleagues in Health on poetry and wellbeing. The University is funding Rudge’s
interdisciplinary project, ‘From Utility to Social Entity’ (FUSE), which draws together specialists in
linguistics, AI, computing, vocational training and healthcare to explore interactions between
healthcare professionals and non-human entities within the context of job-related training (e.g.
practicing how to deliver a sensitive diagnosis to a patient). The University is also funding
Kirjavainen’s and Piasecki’s interdisciplinary project, ‘The Impact of Language and Culture on
Gender Salience’, the key objective of which is to determine if native language, second language
learned later in life and/or speaker’s culture affect gender salience, and thus inform whether we
can encourage inclusivity and reduce gender bias through language use, and the ways that this
could be achieved, with a view to informing policy-makers and educational practices. In addition,
Kirjavainen, Rudge and Piasecki are working with consultant neuroscientists at Bristol’s
Southmead Hospital on holistic intra-operative speech testing in brain tumour surgery, with the
objective of developing testing protocols for gestural communication.


Section 2. People

Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
The unit continues to sustain and develop its research strengths through the development,
promotion, and recruitment of key staff. Professors Jarvis and Coates, and Associate Professor
Beeching retired in the REF period (Jarvis in 2018; Coates in 2019; Beeching in 2020), while
Mulvey-Roberts has been promoted from Associate Professor to full Professor (2017). A crucial

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
aspect of her promotion, in addition to an outstanding research portfolio, was her ability to
generate impact from her research. Recruiting high-achieving early career researchers has been
a priority for the unit. In the REF cycle, Rogers, Selleck, Rudge, Kirjavainen, Little, Sherwood
and Murphy have joined the unit’s research team. As ECRs in the REF period, they have been
actively supported to develop independent careers and to have significant responsibility for
research.

The Faculty funds five competitive schemes that support the unit’s research: (i) ‘Research
Support Time’ enables staff to dedicate time to the production of high quality research and
impacts (typically from half a day to two days a week). To ensure dedicated support the scheme
considers and earmarks time for ECRs separately. (ii) The ‘Research Collaboration Fund’
provides money to support staff working with colleagues across UWE, other HEIs, industry and
other external organizations. (iii) The ‘Research Impact Fund’ provides money to further impact
activities and impact evidence gathering. (iv) The ‘Research Publicity and Dissemination Fund’
enables staff to promote their research inside and outside the academy. (v) The ‘Research Group
Scheme’ encourages the creation of new research groups around strategically significant themes
and supports the ongoing work of established groups. The Faculty also invites selected staff to an
annual intensive bid-preparation Summer School for emerging researchers. In addition to
Professors and Associate Professors, research-active staff have been awarded additional
internally funded time within the reporting period to further their work and generate impact. The
researchers who have been leading case studies (Alston and Mulvey-Roberts) have been
granted additional resources to support this activity.

The Faculty offers an Academic Study Fund of £30,000 annually to enable staff to present papers
at national and international conferences or to undertake research trips. In addition to funded time
for research, all staff have five weeks of ‘scholarly activity time’ (pro rata) per annum. Faculty
managers use the annual performance development review (PDR) process to maximise the
benefits of this time for research, and to ensure that active researchers can develop and achieve
their research goals.

Staff in the unit have also been successful in securing support from three University-wide
competitive schemes: (i) the Vice-Chancellor’s Early Career Researcher scheme (VCECR) which
supports outstanding early career researchers to undertake preliminary research that can be
developed into major funding applications and outputs; (ii) the Vice-Chancellor’s Interdisciplinary
Research Challenge Fund (VCIRCF) that encourages cross-Faculty collaborations; and (iii) the
Vice-Chancellor’s Accelerator Programme for Mid-Career Academics, a tailored programme to
build bidding skills, to make new collaborations, develop a strategic approach to bidding, and
deliver applications for significant external funding. For example, Murphy and Kirjavainen have
each been awarded VCECR funding, and follow-on support from the Faculty’s Research Time
scheme, to enable them to develop work leading to substantial publications (e.g., Murphy’s 2018
monograph The Discursive Construction of Blame: The Language of Public Inquiries, and
Kirjavainen’s articles on language acquisition). Rudge has been awarded VCIRCF to work with
colleagues in Computing and Healthcare on the interdisciplinary project FUSE (see section 1).
Piasecki and Kirjavainen have also received funding from this interdisciplinary award to work
with colleagues in Education for a project on ‘The Impact of Language and Culture on Gender
Salience’ (see section 1). Rogers and Greenham have been awarded internal funding through
an inter-Faculty scheme to work with colleagues in Health on poetry and wellbeing (see section
1).

The unit’s success in the VCECR scheme is evidence of support for early-career researchers in
line with its strategic goals. ECR’s receive research mentoring from senior colleagues in the
Faculty and are prioritised in internal funding rounds in order to facilitate their development as
independent researchers. The University is committed to the Concordat to Support the Career
Development of Researchers as evidenced by its HR Excellence in Research award first granted
in 2012.




                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research Students
Over the reporting period, the unit has had 21 doctoral completions across a range of topics
aligned to its research strengths. For example, 3 students have produced critical editions of non-
canonical male and female British writers (John Buchan, Sarah Grand and Caroline Norton, the
latter published in 2019), supervised by Greenslade and Mulvey-Roberts. Other doctoral theses
cover diverse topics reflecting the range of expertise such as political discourse, metaphor,
translating children’s literature and The Qu’ran, cognitive linguistics, sign language (Rudge’s
PhD), language learning, second/third language acquisition, comparative linguistics, and
canonical English and American literature (Hardy, Eliot, Hemingway). Parkin completed his PhD
on English surnames as part of the AHRC funded FaNUK project. One of the unit’s PGR
strengths is attracting and successfully supporting self-funded and part-time students: 16 of the
21 PhD completions were by part-time students, the majority self-funded.

All UWE PGRs are required to take 60 credits of M-Level research modules to support and
complement their research studies. The Faculty provides two 30 credit M-Level research modules
that focus specifically on research methods for Arts and Humanities students. The unit’s PGR
students are also supported by the University’s Graduate School, which delivers a stage-
appropriate researcher skills development programme as well as further generic M-Level
research modules. The Graduate School carefully monitors students through a rigorous
progression review process and provides regular supervisory training which all staff on
supervision teams are required to undertake (see Institutional Statement).

Wellbeing has become a major theme of the University’s support for PGR during the REF period.
As registered UWE students PGRs have access to UWE Wellbeing Services, augmented by
dedicated support for the specificities of the PGR experience through the Graduate School. The
latter operates an open-door policy for PGRs and supervisors with specialist support for PGRs
presenting with mental health and/or wellbeing concerns. The Graduate School hosts regular
drop-ins enabling PGRs to receive individual advice on specific issues. Supervisor training, also
provided through the Graduate School, signposts Directors of Studies and supervisors to
wellbeing-related resources – helping them to support their PGRs.

PGR representation is closely woven into the fabric of the PGR governance structures, with
voices at Graduate School Sub-Committee (GSSC) and Faculty Research Degrees Committees
(FRDC).

The Faculty supports PGR student attendance at national and international conferences through
its PGR Support Fund, including childcare costs for PGR students attending conferences. The
BCL has a monthly seminar series at which PGRs attend and present. The Faculty also runs an
annual PGR Conference at which PGR students are encouraged to present and share their
research in a positive and supportive environment with fellow students and staff.

Equality and Diversity
Staff within the unit have been identified as independent researchers with significant responsibility
for research and outputs have been selected in strict accordance with the University’s Code of
Practice. This includes selecting outputs on the basis of their quality as determined through a
thorough peer review process involving senior researchers in the unit and external experts. As
stated in the Code, there was no expectation about the number of outputs any one individual
contributed to the submission. Although individual circumstances declared by staff in the unit
allow for a reduction in the total number of outputs submitted, it is considered beneficial to submit
the full number in order to reflect appropriately the range of research and researchers across the
unit.

UWE has signed up to the Athena SWAN principles and currently holds bronze institutional status
(since 2013, renewed under the scheme’s wider scope in 2017). Athena SWAN at University level
includes a priority action to raise aspirations of women to have research careers at a senior level.
Activities to achieve this include actively promoting the ‘Women in Research Mentoring Scheme’
(see below), considering women’s research careers in the PDR process, monitoring uptake of

                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research awards by gender, and considering unconscious bias and equity in allocating time and
in allocating resources, such as funds to attend conferences. Little sits on the Athena SWAN
Self-Assessment Team, as an ECR representative, and has taken a key role in preparing the self-
assessment report for 2020 by statistically analyzing the results of a staff survey to outline key
areas of progress with gender equality and remaining issues.

Of the staff whose outputs are submitted to the REF in this unit, 12 identify as female and 6 as
male. 5 of the former and 1 of the latter are on fractional contracts. Both impact case studies, are
led by female researchers. Although part-time and flexible contracts are supported, all new staff
whose contracts have begun in the REF period are permanent and full-time. Access to all Faculty
and University research support schemes are unaffected by contract status.

Over the 2014-2020 period there has been an increased sensitivity to unconscious bias in
recruitment, and an awareness of the need to recruit from all sections of the population, e.g.
through advertising via diverse channels, checking adverts for gender bias, including more
diverse images and staff examples on the web and publicity generally. Monitoring data
demonstrates that this has been effective for gender across the University and within the unit as
evidenced by the gender balance of the unit at both senior and early career stages.

The Women in Research Mentoring Scheme (WRMS) provides support to female staff to develop
and strengthen their research portfolio, making them more able to compete for senior research
roles alongside their male counterparts in response to an imbalance at that level across the
University. Mulvey-Roberts is a member of the WRMS steering group and an active mentor on
the programme, and Selleck has been a mentee. The Faculty has also instituted a Women in
Research Group, including Professorial staff (Mulvey-Roberts), with a particular focus on
mitigating the effects of Covid on women researchers.

The unit’s research itself is fully engaged with equality and diversity issues, especially race,
gender and ageing, for example Beeching’s work on dementia, Alston’s and Mulvey-Roberts’
work on children’s and women’s literature and female genital mutilation, Brennan’s and Jarvis’s
work on ageing in women’s literature and travel writing, Robertson’s work on race in the
American South, Rudge’s work on disability in language and health contexts. As outlined in
Section 1, staff collaborate with a range of diverse communities, including Bristol’s Somali
women, the deaf community, prisoners, and primary school students from mixed-entry schools.

Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

The unit’s ambition to produce internationally excellent and world-class research with impact has
been supported by Faculty investment and external funding. Staff across the unit have received
over £240,000 in internally-funded additional research time across the reporting period and
around £1m of external funding (see section 2 and REF4b). The total external research income
for the unit in this REF period is £965,153.

With the help of these resources, the unit’s 15.7fte (18 individuals) have published 6 monographs,
38 peer-reviewed articles, 5 edited collections and 19 book chapters between 2014 and 2020. A
further 36 outputs have been published by staff who have left during the census period. Many of
these outputs are available in an open access form on the UWE repository (as many as
publishers will allow).

The major funded research project that took place within the unit during the reporting period was
‘Family Names of the UK’ (FaNUK), an AHRC-funded project in two phases (£1.4m, £597,269 in
this REF period) co-led by Coates and located at UWE. The project arose from the perception
that existing dictionaries were outdated, under-evidenced and inadequate as dictionaries of
modern British surnames. It was conceived by Patrick Hanks (then at Wolverhampton) and jointly
developed as an online database uniting unprecedentedly large amounts of medieval and modern
evidence for current surnames with over 100 bearers in Britain and Ireland. Alongside this the
database provided sophisticated etymological analysis taking proper account of language

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
evolution, region of origin and, for immigrant names, country and language of origin. Two
research staff and a PhD student (Parkin) were recruited; Parkin joined the project team proper
in the second funded period as a research fellow. The work was intended primarily as a
substantial contribution to academic onomastics and the history and dialectology of the English
language, but with the expectation that it would also be of major interest to all those interested in
the history of the languages of the British Isles and their relation with English. Publication took
place in November 2016. Other outputs include conference papers, articles in journals, and a
PhD thesis. A concise version of the dictionary for OUP is presently approaching its final form,
and interest has been expressed in publishing a second edition including further findings deriving
from the second period of AHRC funding (2014-16), in which the techniques of the first period
were applied to a larger range of significantly rarer surnames, down to a threshold of 20 bearers.

Piasecki’s ‘Whiskey must be an English Word’ was funded by British Academy/ Leverhulme
Trust small grants (£10,000). The project’s focus was the common observation that bilinguals
seem able to operate seamlessly in either of their two languages. An estimated 60-75% of the
world’s population is bilingual, using their two or more languages daily. The findings of the project
suggest that bilingual speakers employ an underlying language discrimination mechanism to
select an appropriate language to use in a set context, and that the efficiency of this mechanism
is dependent on the bilinguals' proficiency in their less dominant language. The findings of the
project are being written up and will be submitted to a high-impact journal as well as disseminated
amongst relevant local and national bodies, such as bilingual schools and relevant policy makers.

Sakel and Karatsareas (while at UWE) started work on a British Academy Postdoctoral
Fellowship (£130,000) to research how new forms of language emerged among urban
ethnolinguistic minorities, focused on Cypriot Greek in London. In this context, they also explored
issues of intergenerational transmission and maintenance, attitudes towards non-standard forms
of heritage languages as well as issues of heritage language teaching and learning, and public
engagement. Following his Postdoctoral Fellowship at UWE, Karatsareas secured a Lecturer
position at Westminster University. Based on his Fellowship work, he also subsequently received
a British Academy Rising Star Engagement Award (2017) and a British Academy/Leverhulme
Trust Small Research Grant (2017).

Former member of staff Butler was Principal Investigator on an EU-funded Comenius project
‘The Learning and Teaching of Children’s Literature’, total funding €175,000. This project involved
working directly with 27 schools, 127 teachers and 3,000 children in four European countries:
United Kingdom, Spain, Iceland, and Turkey. The outputs included data and reports relevant to
policy makers and school teachers, including detailed data on the teaching methods and priorities
in the countries studied, analysis of children’s reading habits and preferences, lesson plans to
encourage and share best practice, and materials designed at increasing understanding of
different European cultures. Amongst other findings, this research demonstrated large differences
between children of different nationalities and socio-economic groups, in terms of the amount and
type of literature read, access to reading materials, preferred genres, and the extent to which
children wished to read books that reflected their own lives. The research also showed the ways
that the methods and culture of children’s literature within the school systems of different
countries affected these outcomes

The Faculty is committed to increasing externally funded research in the unit and to this end the
Faculty’s senior research team continues to identify staff whose research has potential for grant
capture, providing them with a time allocation and the full support of the University’s centralized
research support service, Research, Business and Innovation (RBI). This works alongside a
process of staff-development, which enables staff with less experience or who have been
unsuccessful to develop their awareness of the funding landscape, to build resilience, to cultivate
networks, to identify good practice in bidding and thus to take advantage of future rounds of
funding.

Throughout this REF cycle, staff across the unit have been supported in their research and
impact activity by RBI, which provides support for bidding, forming collaborations to create and

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
implement pathways to impact, advice on research ethics and integrity, intellectual property,
research data management and public engagement. There has been a particular focus on
developing support for impact with a dedicated RBI impact team working alongside academic
colleagues to facilitate impact events and activities and gather evidence of impact, under the
guidance of a Research Impact Manager and an Impact Evidence and Evaluation Manager. Staff
in this team have been closely involved in the impact of the unit as illustrated by our case studies.

As set out in the Institutional Statement, the University is committed to the aims and principles of
open research and encourages its research community to explore the benefits of using open
practices in their research. Staff are encouraged to explore options for open access publication of
research findings and open sharing of data, taking account of the University’s open access policy,
and those of relevant funders. Staff and doctoral students are offered training on open access
principles and practices, including use of an ePrint data archive to preserve and make their data
accessible.


Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

1) Impact, Engagement, Collaborations and Partnerships

Literary Bristol
Ten years ago, Mulvey-Roberts set out to map Bristol’s literary heritage by identifying over a
hundred writers associated with the city, which included Angela Carter. She highlighted these
connections in a keynote lecture she gave at a ‘Writing the West’ public conference in May 2012.
This conference was a collaboration with UWE’s Regional History Centre and the Bristol Cultural
Development Partnership (BCDP). In turn, the conference became the 2015 collection, Literary
Bristol: Writers and the City (Redcliffe Press), including essays by Mulvey-Roberts, Brennan,
and Jarvis. Mulvey-Roberts set out to develop the impact of this research foundation by
cementing the connection between Carter and the city for new audiences in curating an art
exhibition focusing on Carter at the RWA (2016-17), the centre-piece of her case study, as well as
a range of other engagement and impact activities with musicians, artists and public bodies from
2016-2020. This included her ‘Angela Carter's 1960s Bristol’ Walking Tour, as part of 2020’s
Being Human Festival, held online due to Covid, with an international audience from across five
continents. Again, collaborating with the BCDP and the Festival of Ideas, Jarvis organized a
2015 Romantics-themed walking tour of Bristol, which was reprised and extended in 2016 and
2017. Jarvis also organized a 2016 symposium at Bristol’s Watershed marking the bicentenary of
the first publication of Coleridge's ‘Kubla Khan’. Mulvey-Roberts was also consultant for the
exhibition on Constance Lytton, Knebworth House, Hertfordshire, 2015.

Critical Literacy
Alston’s research into children’s literature, which forms the basis for the unit’s second case
study, has impacted on schools in Bristol and South Wales, changing the way they select and
teach their texts while encouraging a more diverse and inclusive curriculum. Her research has
also impacted on the educational charity Cumberland Lodge, expanding their work to include
literature for the first time. Alston acts as an advisor to children’s literature publishers Firefly
Press and Book Island.

Bristol Centre for Linguistics
In 2018, the Bristol Centre for Linguistics’ “Sounds Bristolian” Project (Beeching) attracted
funding to support two engagement activities with local audiences and beneficiaries:
   a) English for Speakers of Other Languages (ESOL) for Somali Women, in partnership with
      the Somali Resource Centre, with £6k funding from the Community University Partnership
      Initiative (2018/2019). Selleck has been contributing to this project, collecting and
      publishing data on community bilingualism. Further funding was sought with colleagues
      from Geography to extend the project from the UKRI ‘Enhancing place-based partnership
      fund’.
   b) Talk for Writing, in partnership with Fonthill Primary School and Education colleagues

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      (£2,250 from UWE Community Fund). This project examined how the National Curriculum’s
      emphasis on ‘standard English’ can sit alongside a celebration of local languages, accents,
      and dialects. Analysis of the findings is ongoing with colleagues from Education.
By drawing on student volunteers, these projects are also exemplary cases of the links that can
be forged between research, teaching, and public engagement.

Partnership is integral to the work of BCL as demonstrated in its work with the Wales Institute of
Social & Economic Research, Data & Methods, a national research centre, in relation to
bilingualism (Selleck); with the Bristol Speech and Language Therapy (SLT) Research Centre
(Kirjavainen); and SLT South West Dementia group (Beeching and PhD student, Watts). BCL
expertise is frequently sought by history groups and the media in relation to place-names
(Coates).

The BCL hosted the fifth international ‘iMean’ conference in 2017, with its traditional focus on
meaning in social interaction, and with a thematic orientation to language and change. The BCL
also held a conference on ‘Discourse Markers, Fillers and Filled Pauses: Psycho- and
Sociolinguistic Perspectives’, in June 2020.

Charteris-Black was appointed by the European Commission to advise on language policy in
response to the rise of populism, giving talks in 2017 and 2018. Charteris-Black has also given
talks on metaphor in speechwriting to groups that have included speech writers for Gordon
Brown, Alan Johnson, and Theresa May.

Murphy gave a talk to Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland CLP ‘A Linguistic History of
PMQs’, with Middlesbrough MPs Tom Blenkinsop and Andy McDonald in attendance (2014); he
has also produced two private briefing papers for the All-Party Parliamentary Groups on
Haemophilia and Infected Blood; and Learning Disability, both in relation to the initial stages of
public inquiries.

Coates’ FaNUK project was internationally collaborative involving a range of experts in English
and other languages, both from the British Isles and the wider world. Experts from Glasgow, Hull,
Queen’s Belfast and Galway Universities were invited in the setup phase as consultants. Others
involved included the Guild of One-Name Studies (a body for professional and amateur
genealogists), retired individuals including Dr Carolyn C. Fenwick, and many others on a private
basis including individual family historians. Information was also supplied to the project through
such diverse bodies as The National Archives and the Church of Latter-Day Saints, and other
useful searchable datasets became available to the project through being published online as the
project developed. Technical support for, and maintenance of, the database was supplied by
Masaryk University, Brno, the world-leading experts in lexicographical databasing, who continue
to support it post-project.

Media Engagement
Researchers from across the unit have featured in the local and national media. Alston is
frequently interviewed by BBC Radio Wales. Coates’ is a regular contributor to BBC Radio 4
programmes about the history of language (e.g. Word of Mouth). The 2017 publication of Coates’
Family Names project was reported by the BBC, including an interview with Michael Rosen, and
widely in the national press including The Guardian, who revisited the project in 2020. Charteris-
Black’s work has featured in The Guardian in articles on political language (2016) and in The
Metro (2020). Mulvey-Roberts has appeared on Radio 4’s Front Row (2017) as well as in the
BBC series The Novels that Changed our World (2019). Sherwood has spoken on Front Row,
BBC Radio Bristol, and BBC Radio Cumbria. Brennan, Ballinger, and Mulvey-Roberts have
taken part in several educational videos. Murphy appeared on the BBC’s New Creatives series
(2020).

Other collaborative activities in the unit
Sherwood is collaborating on a creative digital media project with Exeter Library’s Rare and Early
Printed Books Special Collection, known as the Cage. The collection includes over eight hundred

                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
books, but only eight by women. This project, titled ‘Unlocking the Cage: Women in the Rare and
Early Printed Books Collection at Exeter Library’, seeks to explore the women in and behind the
collection. Between 2017 and 2018, Sherwood collaborated with Mass Observation Archive on
the ‘Beyond Boxes’ project, which aims to widen participation and access to the archive. She led
creative writing seminars in Lewes Prison, a Category B men’s prison, with participants aged 18
to 60, devising seminars to feed into a final exhibition of the men’s work, which was showcased at
The Keep archive centre in Brighton, and at the prison. As a researcher and curator for charity
Salaam Shalom in 2016, Sherwood undertook research in Bristol Archives, and worked with local
community groups in collaboration with the University of Bristol’s Know Your Place project, to
curate an exhibition on Jewish and Muslim Bristol for the first interfaith festival of its kind in the
UK. Sherwood also collaborated with Bristol Central Library to organize a successful live event,
securing readings from George Szirtes, Shagufta K. Iqbal and other prominent writers.

In addition to Alston’s work in schools, Mulvey-Roberts delivered talks on Frankenstein to
schoolteachers and high school students at Liceo Fogazzaro, Vicenza, Italy, October 2018.
Robertson delivered a keynote lecture on poverty and economics in The Grapes of Wrath for A’
Level students at The Godolphin and Latymer School, London, in March 2020, an event for
students across a number of London schools. Robertson also delivered a series of mini-lectures
on poverty and economics in The Grapes of Wrath for the online school resource Massolit (2020).

Ballinger has engaged a range of publics with her research on Victorian literature and
adaptation. In 2014 and 2015 she spoke to A’ Level students in Bristol and city-region schools. In
2019 she contributed to the programme notes for a production of Nicholas Nickleby and in 2020
she was one of three panel experts who gave presentations on novel adaptations at “From Page
to Screen”, Redland Library, Bristol. The evening was organised by the Friends of Redland
Library as part of their series of events to benefit the community by enriching their cultural
experiences of reading novels.

Little has spoken on the relationship between science fiction and linguistics in a number of public
fora (Bristol, Hull, Salisbury, Milton Keynes, Newcastle), as well as on BBC Radio 4 (Stranger
than Sci Fi. Series 1, Episode 3.). She is also a presenter on the Bristol Community FM radio
programme, ‘Love and Science’, and a regular contributor to the popular linguistics journal, Babel:
The Language Magazine.

2) Contribution to research base, influence, and esteem

Editorial Work
Alston is on the editorial board of Children’s Literature in Education; Beeching was on the
editorial board of Journal of French Language Studies (2013-18) and is currently editor for the
book series Corpora and Language Use (Louvain University Press); Brennan edited Women’s
Writing: Studies in American Fiction; Charteris-Black is on the editorial board for Metaphor and
the Social World; Coates is Chair or the editorial board of Onoma (Helsinki), the General Editor of
the publications of English Place-Name Society, on the Scientific committee of several journals:
Genealogy (Beijing and Basel), Symbolae Europaeae (Koszalin), Journal of Literary Onomastics
(SUNY, Brockport, NY), Namenkundliche Informationen (Zurich), Onomastica Uralica (Debrecen),
Acta Onomastica (Prague), il Nome nel testo (Pisa), Onomàstica. Anuari de la Societat
d'Onomàstica (Barcelona), Nomina Africana (Durban), Nouvelle revue d’onomastique (Lyon);
Davis is co-editor of the George Eliot Review (2013-present); Mulvey-Roberts is founding editor
of Women’s Writing, a leading quarterly international journal on women writers before 1918.
Women’s Writing has the highest journal rankings, including the highest European Science
Foundation classification (INTI) for “international publications with high visibility and influence
among researchers in the various research domains in different countries, regularly cited all over
the world”. By collaborating with her editorial team in North America and the UK, Mulvey-Roberts
has published the work of over 1,000 scholars world-wide, many of whom are leading scholars in
the field. Additionally, Mulvey-Roberts is on the editorial board for Gothic Originals book series
for University of Wales Press; Anthem Studies in Gothic Literature; for book series on literature
and the body, Edinburgh University Press, 2019; member of the editorial board of Gothic Studies;

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
member of the editorial board of Dissections; Rogers is Co-Editor (English) for the MHRA.

Peer Reviewing
Supporting the research base, staff in the unit review papers and manuscripts for a huge range of
journals and publishers: Alston: Children’s Literature in Education; Beeching: Journal of French
Language Studies, Journal of Pragmatics, Corpus Pragmatics, Journal of Historical Pragmatics,
Journal of Politeness Research, Cambridge University Press, Palgrave; Charteris-Black:
Metaphor and the Social World, Metaphor and Symbol, Applied Linguistics, System, English for
Specific Purposes, Sociology of Health and Illness, The Linguistic Society of Australia, Journal of
International Relations and Development, Language and Politics; Davis: Review of English
Studies, Victorian Institute Journal, Journal of the History of Ideas; Greenham: Journal of
American Studies, French Review of American Studies, Nineteenth Century Contexts,
Transactions of the Charles S. Peirce Society, Papers on Language and Literature, ESQ and
Journal of American Literature and Culture, Bloomsbury; Jarvis: European Romantic Review,
The Review of English, Studies in Travel Writing; Kirjavainen: Applied Psycholinguistic,
Cognitive Linguistics, Corpus Linguistics and Linguistic theory, First Language, Journal of Child
Language, Georgetown University Press; Mulvey-Roberts: Christianity and Literature,
Contemporary Women’s Writing, Gothic Studies, Irish Journal of Gothic and Horror Studies,
Pacific Coast Philology, Studies in the Novel, Tulsa Studies in Women’s Literature, Macmillan,
Manchester University Press, Palgrave, Routledge; Murphy: Journal of Language and Politics,
Pragmatics & Society, Journal of Pragmatics, Language in Society, Digital Scholarship in the
Humanities, Parliamentary Affairs, Discourse Studies, Discourse and Society, Journal of
Politeness Research; Robertson: Anglo-Saxonica, MLR, Exclamation, English Language Notes,;
Mississippi Quarterly, Journal of Narrative Theory, University of Edinburgh Press; Rogers: Critical
Review, English, and the Journal of British and Irish Innovative Poetry.

Staff also review research projects and funding proposals. Beeching reviews for the Research
Council of Canada and the Belgian Research Council. Charteris-Black is external reviewer for
the Hong Kong Research Council; Coates reviews for British Academy/Leverhulme Trust, ESRC,
AHRC, and national science foundations of Switzerland and Georgia; Jarvis was a member of
AHRC Peer Review College, 2008-2016, and reviews for Leverhulme Trust.

Keynotes and other Invited Talks
Staff in the unit have given over 30 keynotes and invited talks during the REF period, including
universities in the UK (Ballinger, Bath, Beeching Lancaster, Boccardi, London and Portsmouth,
Coates, Glasgow, Wolverhampton and Sheffield, Charteris-Black, Birmingham and Manchester,
Little, Edinburgh, Mulvey-Roberts, Manchester Metropolitan, Murphy Manchester), across
Europe - France (Beeching, Lorraine, Charteris-Black, Lyon), Germany (Beeching, Tübingen,
Coates, Regensburg, Charteris-Black, Berlin), Italy (Beeching, Como and Bergamo, Charteris-
Black, Turin and Genoa, Mulvey-Roberts, Venice), Russia (Coates, Moscow), Portugal
(Greenham, Lisbon, Mulvey-Roberts, Lisbon), Norway (Charteris-Black, Olso), Netherlands
(Little, Nijmegen), North America (Mulvey-Roberts, Ottawa, Canada), and Japan (Kirjavainen,
Hyogo)

Scholarly Associations
Jarvis is a life member of the British Association of Romantics. Greenham served on the
advisory board and as conference chair for the Ralph Waldo Emerson Society (2013-2019). Little
is on the Board of Directors, Open Rights Group; the Scientific Committee of Evolution of
Language (EvoLang) International Conferences; and a Board Member (PR Officer), International
Association of Cognitive Semiotics (IACS). Coates has been Vice-President, International
Council of Onomastic Sciences (2011-17); Hon. Director, Survey of English Place-Names (2002-
19), subsequently President of the Society; and a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries (1992-
date).

Prizes and Awards
Sherwood’s debut novel Testament (Riverrun, 2018) won The Bath Novel Award, an
international prize for the best unpublished manuscript, in 2016, before being published in the UK

                                                                                         Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and Commonwealth as the ‘lead’ literary debut from Riverrun in 2018, as well as being chosen as
the Hachette International Pick. Following publication, Testament was longlisted for the Desmond
Elliott Prize, shortlisted for the Authors’ Club Best First Novel Award, won the Harper’s Bazaar Big
Book of 2019. In 2019, Sherwood was shortlisted for the Sunday Times Young Writer of the Year
Award.
Mulvey Roberts was winner of the Allan Lloyd Smith Memorial Prize 2017 for Dangerous Bodies:
Historicising the Gothic Corporeal (2016); and was nominated and shortlisted for the Allan Lloyd
Smith Memorial Prize 2019 for an edited collection of essays for Global Frankenstein, co-ed.
Carol Margaret Davis.




                                                                                          Page 13
