Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: University of Leicester
Unit of Assessment: 21
1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Now approaching its 70th Anniversary, Leicester remains a prominent group of Sociology
scholars. Underpinned by a rich tradition of pioneering theoretical, substantive and
methodological work, our innovative research addresses priority societal issues relating to: civic
engagement and social movements; diversity and identity; individual and social transitions;
problematised consumption and production; and health, life-satisfaction and wellbeing.

The UoA embraces a diversity of conceptual and empirical approaches to sociological work,
centring on a commitment to achieving positive social change. Our scholarship enhances public
understanding of major social concerns — child sex tourism, discrimination of black footballers,
long-term impacts of youth training schemes — and influences the policy and practice of key
professional groups: notably, practitioners in the fields of mental health, sports government, and
public health/harm reduction.

Positioned within the College of Social Sciences, Arts and Humanities (CSSAH), the Unit
comprises 81 individuals (12 Category A staff, 6 emeritus/visiting professors, 2
associated/honorary researchers, and 61 PGRs). Our researchers have met the challenges of
scale and scope presented by being a relatively small UoA through extensive collaboration with
colleagues undertaking sociological research across the University of Leicester (UoL). We share
an interdisciplinary ethos, working as a hub for pan-disciplinary scholarship spanning the
interfaces between the social, health and natural sciences, arts and humanities. A merger in
2016 formed a new School of Media, Communication and Sociology (MCS) that augmented the
administrative and technical support for staff development, grant capture and PGRs, and
generated a critical mass of research activity.

In REF2014 we set three objectives, aligned to University and College strategy, to develop and
enhance our research environment. All have been met:

  Research and impact              Achievements
  objectives 2014
  Building networks and            Unit of Diversity, Inclusion and Community Engagement
  increasing collaborative         (DICE) established in 2015 to promote and celebrate
  working to support impactful     inclusion and diversity institutionally, by engaging with local
  research                         and national communities
  Building citizen and civil       Expansion of citizen and civil society group to the ‘Belonging’
  society group and health and     cluster and inauguration of DICE
  wellbeing group through          Expansion of the health and wellbeing group to the
  ongoing projects                 ‘Exchange’ cluster
                                   Inclusion of research from both groups in additional clusters,
                                   ‘Becoming’ and ‘Knowledge’ (see below)
  Work with interdisciplinary      Inauguration and development of interdisciplinary groups at
  groups                           and beyond Leicester including:
                                   Leicester Migration Network
                                   Leicester Artificial Intelligence Network
                                   Leicester Microbial Sciences and Disease Network
                                   Leicester Judgement and Decision Making Research Group


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                  Group of Research on Activism, Protests and Social
                                  Movements
                                  Language and Interaction Research Assembly
                                  Leicester Centre for Mental Health Research


Research and Impact Strategy
Since REF2014 we have enhanced our research environment through a concerted effort to grow
the range, scale and impact of research activities in the UoA via: expanding interdisciplinary
collaboration and scholarship; diversifying research income; expanding our contribution to the
discipline; increasing international reach; and enhancing impact through embedding research
within communities.

This has included significant investment in the School’s outward-facing research activity,
approximately £225k. Impact-led activities are central components of our research, wherein
sociological questions can inform different actors engaged in public debates and policies, which
can subsequently lead to new innovative research. Beneficiaries of our research include non-
governmental organisations, schools, government bodies, health authorities, NHS patients, and a
diverse range of industry sectors. Moreover, we are regularly engaged in impactful public
engagement activities through DICE (see section 4). As demonstrated by our two Impact Case
Studies (bridging Sociology with Health Science and Criminology respectively), interdisciplinary
and international collaboration is a crucial dimension of our impact strategy. In addition, we
boosted our outward-facing research through the creation of a leadership role specifically
dedicated to supporting impact activities in 2017, and through the collation and sharing of best-
practice on impact. Recent UoA impact-related activities are supported by, inter alia: the ESRC’s
Impact Accelerator Awards (ESRC IAA) (e.g. Hughes’ work on e-cigarettes and youth); the
Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic Support Fund (WTISSF) (e.g. O’Reilly’s work on resilience
and child mental health); and international research bodies (e.g. Monforte’s work on blood
donation within ethnic minority communities).

Core to our research strategy since REF 2014 has been consolidation and expansion of four
research clusters. These clusters are key drivers of our research strategy, enabling the
production of high-quality outputs, developing impact activities, and expanding grant capture.

Belonging: Migration, Diversity and Social Movements
This cluster reflects well-established research programmes exploring how: people cross social
boundaries in sport (Campbell, Williams); migrants achieve membership and inclusion (Bassel,
Bartram, Misztal, Monforte); individuals drive social change (especially through protest) (Bassel,
Monforte); and citizens build solidarity with people in minority groups (Monforte). Notable grants
include: Bassel, Monforte, Bartram and Misztal’s ‘Understanding Immigrants’ Experiences of
the UK Citizenship Process’ (ESRC, 2013–2017, £431k), cited in the House of Lords Select
Committee on Citizenship and Civic Engagements (2017); Monforte’s (in collaboration with
University of Nantes) ‘Exploring the Frames of Altruistic Action in Britain and France’ (ESRC,
2017–2020, £410k); and (in collaboration with Ghent University) ‘The Transformative Capacity of
Blood Donation Among Ethnic Minorities’ (FWO, 2020–2024, £330K). This grouping has
generated prize-winning publications, such as Campbell’s Philip Abrams Memorial Prize-winning
Football, Ethnicity and Community (2016), and has been at the forefront of significant community
initiatives through the Migration network and DICE. The group has also facilitated the
construction of a university-wide research network on social movements and collective action


                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(GRASP) and generated post-doctoral fellowships (e.g. Khan and Maestri).

Exchange: Health, Wellbeing and Environment
This cluster coalesces research on problematised consumption in late-modern life: from the
exploitations and rewards of sex tourism (Sanchez-Taylor), to the pleasures and markets for
second-hand goods (Chattoe-Brown), and the social uses of e-cigarettes by young people
(Hughes). Research in this group links to the fields of health and wellbeing (O’Reilly, Monforte,
Hughes) particularly through work on substance use (Hughes), happiness (Bartram), and
mental health/wellbeing (O’Reilly). Cluster researchers have engaged stakeholders locally
(Leicestershire NHS Trust, Leicestershire Police), nationally (Public Health England, NHS, The
Health Foundation, the NSPCC), and internationally (WHO; Johns Hopkins Medicines USA;
ASEC, Brazil; Hussaini Foundation, Pakistan). The grouping has developed significant cross-
disciplinary/cross-institutional networks and collaborations, notably with the SAPPHIRE (Social
Sciences Applied to Healthcare Improvement) group. The latter has generated critical insights
and novel approaches that have tangibly improved the reach and significance of healthcare
improvement efforts, informing UK Government healthcare policy, NHS and WHO guidelines,
impacting clinical practice globally serving as the basis for one of the UoA’s Impact Case
Studies. Hughes’ UKRI-funded Study ‘Raising Community Voice for Future Health Research’
under the Enhancing Place-Based Partnerships in Public Engagement scheme (2019, £19k)
based on a collaboration with University Hospitals Leicester (UHL), University of Leicester (UoL)
and Citizens UK, is now informing a major review of University’s engagement strategy.
O’Reilly’s (£4,160) Wellcome Trust-funded study of ‘Social Media and Adolescent Mental
Health’ (2015), involving collaborations between sociology, education, media and psychology
colleagues has produced written evidence for Parliament on Mental Health in Schools (2017).
Sanchez-Taylor’s (£500k) ESRC-funded project ‘Sun, Sea, Sand and Silicon’ (2013) fed into the
development of the UK Breast and Cosmetic Implant Registry, contributed to medical ethical
debates on the regulation of cosmetic surgery, and underpinned a subsequent British Academy
project ‘Revisiting Child Sex Tourism’ (2018, £200k) which has informed debates relating to
children’s rights taken up by ECPAT, Save the Children, and UNICEF.

Becoming: Youth, Work and Transitions
Work in this cluster explores the interplay between individual and broader social transitions: of
young people in education and the labour market (Goodwin and O’Connor); STEM graduates
(White); women entering science (O’Connor); black footballers through retirement (Campbell);
and age-related life transitions (Misztal). A further cognate focus relates to experiences of work
through social transition, encompassing: sex workers (Sanchez-Taylor, Sanders); men in ‘dirty’
occupations (Hughes); and the shifting materiality of dirty work (Hughes). This research —
funded through projects such as White’s ‘Employment trajectories of STEM graduates’ (Nuffield,
2016-2018, £46k) and Goodwin and O’Connor’s ‘Youth opportunities’ (British Academy, 2016-
2018, £9K) — has generated world-leading, prize-winning publications. Hughes’ ‘Beyond the
symbolic’ won Sage’s Innovation Prize (2018), Pilcher’s ‘Names, bodies and identities’ was a
runner-up for the same prize in 2017; O’Reilly’s study of ‘Discursive Approaches in Family
Therapy’ won the US Anselm Strauss Award for Qualitative Family Research (2019). O’Reilly’s
work on engaging young people and mental health — developed into training resources for
practitioners working for Childline UK, and Centerstone clinicians in the US. Sanders’ work on
transforming the online sex industry regulation, policing and safeguarding practice, which forms
the basis for the second of the UoA’s impact case studies, has directly informed guidelines
adopted by the National Crime Agency and has fed into APPGs and Home Affairs Select
Committees to shape and inform government policies relating to sex work (ICS2).


                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Knowledge: Theory and Methods
Work in this cluster builds upon Leicester’s long-standing reputation as a leader for
developments in sociological theory, including: figurational sociology (Hughes, Goodwin,
O’Connor, Dunning); critical realism and Actor Network Theory (Carter); and Multiple
Normalities (Misztal). The grouping also encompasses a range of studies of innovative social
research methods encompassing Qualitative Secondary Analysis and restudies (Hughes,
Goodwin and O’Connor, Dunning); critical conversational analysis (O’Reilly); paradata and
marginalia (Goodwin and O’Connor); statistical inferences (White, Bartram); and agent-based
modelling (Chattoe-Brown). Highlights include Chattoe-Brown’s work on agent-based
modelling and simulation, which has underpinned a series of significant research awards
including the (2017) ‘Antimicrobial Resistance as a Social Dilemma’ (ESRC, £205k) and (2019)
‘Realistic Computational Models of Social Influence’ (ESRC, £302k). Dunning’s work on
figurational sociology has likewise contributed to the successful capture of a (2018) ESRC
Festival of Social Science Award, ‘Return to Winston Parva’, and a (£260K) CEC-funded award
for the project ‘DigiGen’ (2019).

In sum, the Unit has established itself as a nexus of interdisciplinary research with: a
diversification of national and international funding streams resulting in >80% increase in total
grant capture since 2014; every member of the Unit successfully attracting external research
funding; prize-winning outputs; and impactful research used as government evidence and
informing the work of practitioners nationally and internationally. PGR support enhancements
have resulted in a tripling of PhD completions, and a six-fold increase in supervisions to doctoral
award compared to REF2014.

Research Integrity and Open Research
Our achievements since 2014 are underpinned by inclusive research governance ensuring the
integrity of our research and facilitating open research. Review, development, and
implementation of our research and impact strategy is the responsibility of the unit’s Research
Committee, comprising a cross-section of representatives from PGR to Chairs, as well as
representatives of the research clusters. The Committee is also responsible for promoting a
culture of research integrity, ensuring that all researchers understand and practice according to
the expected standards and obligations, as outlined in the Concordat to Support Research
Integrity. In addition, the Research Committee is responsible for the development of an open
research culture, ensuring wider distribution, engagement, and impact. It ensures that all
colleagues observe requirements for open access deposit (Institutional Environment Statement
(IES), section 2.6). We have also made conference papers, PhD theses, and project reports
openly accessible via our institutional open access archive. In addition, many of our researchers
are editors and/or editorial board members of open-access peer-reviewed journals, and our
School has supported the development of a new online OA PGR journal, ‘for(e)dialogue’,
published via the University Library. Finally, UoA members are conducting projects where data
are made open access, specifically through the ESRC UK Data Service, and through external
collaborations (see section 3).

Future Strategic Aims
Our current and future strategy centres upon expanding research that harnesses the sociological
achievements of Leicester as an institution through exploring issues and concerns expressed by
Leicester as a place, while further broadening the international scope and reach of our research.
Accordingly, we will:



                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Strategic Aims        Plans and Initiatives
  Expand                Augment our interdisciplinary collaborations particularly with
  Collaborative and     colleagues in: media and communication, psychology, health
  Interdisciplinary     sciences, criminology, law, business, education and geography. Key
  Scholarship           here are applications already submitted/in development for major
                        multi-centre awards exploring diversity and health, including: the
                        impact of COVID-19 (UKRI); health communication; spatial, cultural
                        and geographical divides in long-term perspective; integrating clinical
                        scientific work on contagion and resilience; and epidemiological work
                        from health sciences (Wellcome, ESRC).
                        Building upon our existing research on problematised consumption,
                        we will establish a new pan-University network for interdisciplinary
                        work on social division, substance use and harm reduction, working
                        with colleagues in criminology, law, psychology, health sciences,
                        economics, and clinical researchers from UHL.
  Enhance               Form a core part of the University’s mission to foster Citizens of
  Engagement            Change (IES, 2.8). Accordingly, the UoA aims to be at the forefront
  Through Embedding     of how, through our Civic University Agreement (renewed 2019),
  Research in           UoL can redefine its relationship with the city of Leicester by
  Communities           developing innovative strategies to build meaningful and enduring
                        engagement between UoL, UHL and marginalised communities.
                        Scaling up existing UKRI-funded research and working through
                        DICE and the University’s Institute for Inclusivity in HE, we will lead a
                        transformation of the University of Leicester’s practices and policies
                        on community engagement and become a leader in sector-wide
                        debates relating to civic university partnerships. Relatedly, we will
                        lead institutional and sectoral work on decolonising teaching and
                        research, inclusion, access, outcomes, and achievements in Higher
                        Education.
  Extend the            Increase capture of substantial awards with an international
  International and     dimension. A key aim for the UoA will be to develop work exploring
  Comparative Reach     the local/global interface through the prism of Leicester and
  of our Research       contrasting contexts both nationally and internationally. Drawing from
                        our research clusters, projects in development include: migrant
                        experiences of civic engagement and citizenship; altruistic actors;
                        and experiences of migrant labourers in industries linked to the re-
                        sourcing of production. Additionally, recent University GCRF-QR
                        funded projects — such as O’Reilly’s study of child mental health
                        provision in Dhaka-based low-income communities — will form the
                        basis for larger comparative, international studies.
  Expand our            Strengthen Leicester’s long-standing reputation as an incubator of
  Contribution to the   leading sociological figures and a pioneer in research training,
  Future of the         methods, and theory. We will expand cross-disciplinary supervision
  Discipline            utilising new sources of funding made possible through structural
                        transformation (e.g. NIHR/CLAHRC, AHRC Midlands4Cities, and
                        ESRC Midland Graduate School Doctoral Partnership schemes).
                        Relatedly, we will lead in the development of discipline-wide
                        research training and strategy through our contributions to ESRC’s
                        Future of the PhD group, Strategic Advisory Network, our chairing of


                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                            the ESRC’s Advisory Group on Methods and Data Infrastructure,
                            and the Managing Group for the NCRM.
2. People

Staffing Strategy
For a Unit of our size, changes to staffing have major significance for the composition and
character of our research community. Accordingly, staff recruitment, development, retention and
promotion are treated as matters of central strategic importance. Core to our strategy of
recruiting outstanding staff at all career levels are three central principles:

       recruiting staff in areas that develop established Unit strengths (defined in the clusters
        above), particularly through extending these to growth areas;

       fostering/recruiting staff committed to interdisciplinary/collaborative working and globally-
        reaching research and impact;

       enhancing the diversity of our staffing profile.

Early in this REF cycle, the retirement of Professors Misztal, Carter and Hutchby, spurred a
review of the shape and direction of the Unit. These departures occurred in tandem with a
University-wide structural transformation, including the creation of MCS, affording opportunities
to transfer-in staff from other areas. Accordingly, O’Reilly (then in Psychology) was transferred
into the UoA. Her work has proven pivotal to the development of the ‘Becoming’ and ‘Exchange’
clusters. Likewise, Professors Goodwin and O’Connor (both formerly in the Business School)
brought further expertise relating to youth and generation and developed long-established
strengths of the UoA relating to the education, training, and life transitions of young workers.

Reflecting the global reputation of Leicester sociology, several of our staff (Demir, Bassel and
Pilcher) have been recruited by other institutions. Consistent with our staffing strategy,
departures have been used as opportunities for strategic review. Campbell, who joined the Unit
early 2019, was successfully recruited as part of a conscious push to diversify our staffing body
and enhance our strengths in the sociology of sport, ethnicity, and career transitions. Dunning
(recruited mid–2019) bolstered existing strengths relating to figurational sociology, extending this
through work on terrorism, identity and belonging. Additionally, our Emeritus and Honorary
Professors (Ashton, Carter, Layder, Mennell, Misztal) continue to make a vital contribution to our
research culture, with writing collaborations, reading and discussion groups, and PGR
supervision among their ongoing activities.

Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
Our substantive sociological commitment to equality, diversity and social justice is reflected in the
Unit’s staffing strategy which centres on principles of transparency, consistency, accountability
and inclusivity, highlighted by the University’s A Culture of Equality: Equality, Diversity and
Inclusion — a strategy developed through consultation with DICE, housed within our Unit.
Indeed, our staff are at the forefront of institutional policies and practices relating to diversity. For
example, O’Connor is PVC and Head of CSSAH, championing women in leadership for
International Women’s Day, and institutional initiatives targeting education transitions, including
the introduction of a series of BAME scholarships for PGT and PGR. Campbell is leading a QR-
funded (2020, £25k) project developing a decolonising the curriculum toolkit and is undertaking
research for Transforming Access and Student Outcomes in Higher Education (TASO) (2020,
£75k) to explore ‘Approaches to addressing the attainment gap for BAME students’.

                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Within our current staff profile (Figure 1) two staff identify as BAME, one as from the LGBTQI+
community; and two self-identify as disabled. All but one Category A staff are full-time. Although
we are above sector averages in the proportion of BAME/LGBTQI+ staff, we recognize the need
to diversify our staffing profile further, particularly to improve gender balance, and address the
under-representation of BAME staff at professorial level within British Sociology (BSA 2020).




                                          1


                        1
                                                                           Sum of Female
                                                                1          Sum of Male
                                          4
                        3
                                                                2



                   ASSISTANT         ASSOCIATE          PROFESSOR
                   PROFESSOR         PROFESSOR


                                       Figure 1 Staff Profile

Our Athena Swan coordinator (application to be submitted mid-2021) and Self-Assessment
Team (SAT) work actively on staff diversity, as does our Director of Equalities — an institutional
role we inaugurated. In our ongoing self-assessment, we are guided by the University’s four-year
EDI strategy to recognise and value diversity, ensure quality of opportunity, and enable all staff
and students to flourish in an inclusive and respectful working and learning environment (IES, 3).
This has informed our recruitment process that explicitly encourages applications from women,
disabled, and BAME candidates, and mitigates against homogenous appointment panels. These
policies have diversified shortlists for our two most recent posts and have led to the successful
appointment of a BAME candidate to an open-ended lectureship.

All staff complete the University’s online training courses on EDI and unconscious bias annually.
This is a mandatory requirement of annual Performance Development Discussions (PDD).
Building upon the University’s flexible working policies directed at enabling gender equality, staff
can apply to work flexible hours to accommodate caring responsibilities (three staff have done so
in this cycle). Additionally, work adjustments and significant resources (specialised desks,
software, etc.) have been provided for staff within the Unit with disabilities and to support home
working during the Covid-19 pandemic.

Induction, Mentoring and Staff Development
New staff follow a comprehensive induction programme ensuring the best support from the
School, College and University. New lecturers receive a reduction in teaching hours of
respectively 50%, 30%, and 10% for years 1–3 of employment. During probation, staff work with
a senior mentor to monitor and encourage professional development. This scheme is
supplemented by staff and PGR Peer Mentoring Groups, who meet regularly to focus on such
issues as promotion, support for staff with caring responsibilities, and publication strategy.


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Additionally, staff hold bi-annual one-on-one meetings with the Director of Research to discuss
research-related goals, progress, and opportunities.

All staff have utilised multiple developmental opportunities in this cycle such as institutional
programmes covering project management, coaching and mentoring, leadership development,
planning and transformational change, supplemented by in-house research training utilising staff
expertise on grant capture, impact, engagement, peer review and REF preparation. Further
developmental opportunities are supported financially through individual allocations for external
training, conferences, symposia, and workshops, notionally £500pa, but often exceeding this to
cover international travel (e.g. approximately half of the UoA attended ISA, Yokohama in 2014; a
third at Toronto 2016). Over £32,000 has been allocated to support research in this way since
2014. Staff are also supported in senior leadership roles (e.g. O’Connor, PVC and Head of
College; Goodwin, Deputy Head of College) through University buyout. Additionally, staff are
eligible to apply for research leave for one semester in seven, rigorously vetted at School and
College level against agreed criteria. Staff have successfully used study leave to secure external
funding (e.g. Sanchez-Taylor, Monforte), develop major outputs (e.g. Pilcher ‘Names, Bodies
and Identities’ Sociology, 2015), and develop crucial impact and engagement work (Williams;
O’Reilly).

In 2016 we introduced a Staff Development Committee to improve transparency and collective
decision making in relation to promotion cases, merit awards, administrative role allocations, and
study leave. Such processes build upon College/University processes and resources, for
instance in our adoption of the Leicester Academic Career Map (IES 3.2) and structuring
promotion feedback to applicants. In this cycle, 6 colleagues (4 female, 2 male) have applied for
promotion, 3 successfully to Associate Professor, another 2 successfully, 1 unsuccessfully, to
Professor. In the latter case, structured mentoring has been provided to support and develop a
future promotion case. Support measures have paid dividends, with effectively half of all UoA
staff promoted in this cycle.

As an illustrative case of our staff support provision, Monforte received mentorship, pump-
priming and study leave (2015) that underpinned both his promotion to Associate Professor
(2016), and his successful capture of an ESRC award The Frames of Altruistic Action (2017,
£410k) — a project which funded a research assistant, Maestri, who, after extensive early career
development support, successfully secured a Lectureship at Aston (2019).

Research Students
We host a substantial cohort of campus-based (45), distance-learning (15), and practice-based
(1) PGRs attracted by our long-standing reputation in areas delineated through our research
clusters. Building on our international standing, we attract more than a third of our students from
overseas. Registration numbers at the census point are 52.5 FTE students (45FT/15 PT) aged
between 24–72, with 62% female and 38% male, and 27% BAME.

Since 2014, there have been 41 new registrations to our Sociology PhD and 22 FTE (20FT/5PT)
completions, with staff having also co-supervised to completion a further 12.5 FTE (2FT/21PT)
cross-disciplinary PGRs for psychology, management, education, modern languages and
neuroscience. The 22 FTE for sociology marks a tripling of completions in the UoA compared to
REF2014 (7.5FTE). The total of 48 awards (including 19 DL completions) marks a 6x increase in
PGR supervisions to award, securing our position as a vital cross-disciplinary PGR training hub.
The effectiveness of our support environment is also apparent in student destinations, with our
PGR graduates successfully taking up roles in organisations such as The National Archives, The

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Ministry of Justice, and Norwegian Centre for Human Rights, plus academic posts at Bath,
Liverpool, Loughborough, KCL, York, Wolverhampton, Lincoln, Greenwich and Leicester itself.
Their published work includes outputs in journals such as: Sociology of Health and Illness;
Health; Sociological Research Online; Sport, Education and Society; and The Sociological
Review.

A key focus since 2014 has been the expansion of cross-disciplinary PGRs via co-supervision
with colleagues in media, health sciences, management, criminology and psychology. As part of
MCS, we now have a student funded through NIHR, and another funded through cross-College
studentships. Since 2014, 7 College- and Cross-College-funded studentships have been
awarded to PGRs in the UoA marking a major institutional investment of (£321,000) into PGR in
Sociology.

Our Unit promotes a strong, supportive PGR community through a robustly monitored system of
supervision involving all UoA members. All PGR students have ≥2 supervisors. Student training
needs are identified upon first supervision, and a tailored programme for meeting these agreed
using University, College and School resources. Transferable skills and research training is
provided by the University’s Doctoral College (IES 3.2), including courses on: research design
and methods, ethics, time and project management, career development, media writing,
managing supervisors, viva preparation, grant proposals and publication.

PGR representatives raise concerns and provide feedback through a regular PGR Forum, part of
the MCS committee structure. Feeding into this is a ‘Teams’-based platform, serving as an online
space for discussion of PGR issues, allowing for the full integration of DL PhD students and a
continuous dialogue with/in the PGR community. Additionally, up to 3 PGR students per year
from the UoA are supported (financially, with staff co-attending as programme mentors) in joining
the Prato PGR writing workshop in Italy (with counterparts from Warwick, Newcastle, Kent and
Monash). PGRs also receive an annual allocation (up to £500) of financial support from both the
School and College to present at conferences, attend workshops, undertake fieldwork and
receive training.

Students within the School organize an annual NDiMS (New Directions in Media and Sociology)
international conference, financially supported by the School. PGR students are also supported
in organising events such as the 2019 symposium ‘Doing Things Differently’ (40 participants).
PGR collaborative research activities have become sufficient to support the development of a
new online OA PGR journal, ‘for(e)dialogue’.

These enhancements to PGR support are reflected in PRES survey score improvements since
2013 with, for example, a 25% increase in reported regular contact with supervisors (94% in
2020); 27% more students felt equipped with requisite research skills (94% in 2020); and 9%
more students felt they would complete in time (94% in 2020).

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income
In the current census period, we have diversified and significantly increased our grant income.
Compared to REF2014, external grant income has increased by more than 80%, with every
member of the UoA successfully attracting external research funding within this cycle, bringing
£1.2M to Leicester (compared to £663,131 in the previous cycle). The increase in our grant


                                                                                           Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
income has been fuelled by 21 new grants awarded since 2014 from 13 different external funding
bodies, including research councils and charitable trusts (e.g. ESRC, AHRC, British Academy,
Education Endowment Foundation, Cancer Research UK, Leverhulme, Wellcome, Carlton Hayes
Mental Health Charity). Many of these projects are ongoing: they will underpin future outputs and
impact and contribute to the School’s Research Development Fund into the next period.

Grant Capture Strategy
This has been achieved through:
    Supporting staff through the whole cycle of developing funding bids, from early ideas
       discussed at mentoring meetings, to applications for small grants for pilot projects,
       through to large collaborative bids;

       Strategic use of institutional support via Leicester Institute of Advanced Studies (LIAS)
        (IES 2.2), pump-priming from institutional pots (e.g. block grants from Wellcome, ESRC
        IAA, GCRF-QR) and School funds derived from grant overheads for pilot projects and
        impact activities (see examples below);

       Improving application quality through robust peer-review processes and targeted
        investment in grant writing support;

       Fostering collaboration outside of the Unit, particularly interdisciplinary work, including the
        development of pan-disciplinary networks to support and strengthen applications (e.g. the
        Migration network). This has made for stronger applications which speak to an
        increasingly post-disciplinary funding environment, and opened the way to a greater
        diversity of funders (e.g. Cancer Research UK, Health Foundation, TASO);

       Building successful multi-institutional applications (e.g. to the ERC and ESRC), with
        partners at other UK (e.g. Bristol, Cardiff, Leeds, Manchester) and International HEIs (e.g.
        Babes-Bolyai, Girona, Ghent, Nantes, Paderborn, Panteion, Tallinn, Vienna);

       Incentivising success in grant capture by, since forming MCS, allowing PIs a share of the
        grant overheads allocated to the UoA (10% for awards ≥ £200k, with potential for further
        flexibility for larger grants) to further develop research and impact activity and grant
        income generation.

In addition to the research strategies and support measures outlined above (also IES 4.1),
School, College and LIAS workshops are held regularly to promote funding schemes, highlight
calls, develop interdisciplinary networks/projects, establish teams, and provide grant writing
retreats. Additionally, the University’s Research and Enterprise Division provides targeted
support in the development of research projects, the organisation and administration of funding
applications in the School, as well as cross-departmental bids. Successful applications are
available as models, with applications for awards of less than £150,000 reviewed by the Director
of Research and another member of the School Research Committee. Larger grant applications
receive review at College and University level by members of Key Funder Working Groups
(AHRC, ESRC, Leverhulme Trust and Wellcome Trust). Finally, staff are supported in obtaining
external reviews before submission.

Major Awards
Since 2014, major research awards to the UoA include funds from: the ESRC, £410k for
Monforte’s (PI) The Frames of Altruistic Action, (2017–2020); £205k for Chattoe-Brown’s (Co-I)


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Antimicrobial Resistance as a Social Dilemma (2017–2018); £812k for Chattoe-Brown’s (Co-I)
‘The Social and Psychological Underpinnings of Commercial Arbitration in Europe’, (2018–24);
£302K for Chattoe-Brown’s (Co-I) ‘Towards Realistic Computational Models of Social Influence
Dynamics’, (2019–2022); from Cancer Research UK, £278k for Hughes’ (PI) Adolescent Vaping
Careers, (2017–2020), and £102k for Hughes’ (Co-I) ‘The Regulation of E-Cigarettes in and
Around Organisational Lives’, (2017–2020); from the British Academy, £9k for Goodwin’s (PI)
‘Youth Opportunities? The Long-Term Impacts of Participation in Youth Training Schemes during
the 1980s’, (2016–2018); £200k for Sanchez-Taylor’s (Co-I) Revisiting Child Sex Tourism:
Rethinking Business Responses (2017–2020); from the Nuffield Foundation, £46k for White’s
(Co-I) The Employment Trajectories of STEM Graduates, (2016–2018); from UKRI, £35k for
Hughes’ (PI) Raising Community Voice for Future Health Research (2020); from TASO £75k for
Campbell’s (PI) Approaches to addressing the attainment gap for BAME students; from the
Health Foundation, £196k for O’Reilly’s (Co-I) ‘Public Sector Failure Lessons for Healthcare
Policy Makers’ (2015); from the Home Office, £29.5k for O’Reilly’s (Co-I) ‘Evaluation of Prevent
Innovation Projects’ (2017); from Sporting Equals, £36k for Williams’ (PI) ‘BAMEs into Sports
Governance’ (2017–2019); from Erasmus, £68k for Williams’ ‘Sport and Fairness in Europe’
(2016–2018). International funding awarded with colleagues in other European countries has
included Dunning’s (Co-I) (£260K) CEC award for ‘The Impact of Technological Transformations
on the Digital Generation’ (2019–22); and Monforte’s (Co-I) FWO award for The Transformative
Capacity of Blood Donation Among Ethnic Minorities, £330k (2020–2024). We also received
awards ranging from £2k–£12k from the ESRC, Wellcome Trust, Home Office, Health
Foundation and Carlton Hayes Mental Health Charity. Overheads from larger, FEC projects
continue to be used to support (through pump-priming and other School-level mechanisms
identified above) growth areas in the UoA, in line with the research strategy outlined in Section 1.

Funding awarded in 2008–2013 has supported outputs and impact in the current cycle. For
instance, Bassel’s (PI) ESRC grant on The UK Citizenship Process, £441,684 (2013–2017) has
led to outputs in Sociology (2019, Bartram), British Journal of Sociology (2019, Monforte) and a
Special Issue to be published in Ethnicities (accepted for publication in 2021). This project has
also led to significant dissemination and impact activities (see section 4). Sanchez-Taylor’s (Co-
I) ESRC project Sun, Sea, Sand and Silicone: Aesthetic Surgery Tourism in the UK and Australi
(2011–2013) has led to a paper in Gender, Place and Culture (2015). The project also enabled
Sanchez-Taylor to become a consultant at the Breast and Cosmetic Implant Registry (NHS).
Goodwin’s (PI) ESRC grant ‘Making the 'Precariat': Unemployment, Insecurity and Work-Poor
Young Adults in Harsh Economic Conditions’, £178k (2013–2015) has enabled the publication of
the monograph, Young People in the Labour market: Past, Present, Future (2018, Routledge).
Furthermore, Demir’s AHRC Fellowship ‘Diasporic Brokers: Reviving and Translating Kurdish
Culture in London’ (2012–2013) has led to publications in Critical Discourse Studies (2017) and
The Global South (2017).

Institutional Investment
Significant institutional investment has also supported our research activities. The College
research management team administers a funding scheme to which members of the Unit have
successfully applied to fund travel, seed projects, and to develop international partnerships,
enterprise and public engagement. Separate funds exist for developing Impact, complementing
funds available through the School. To date 4 colleagues have received a total of £16,000 in
awards from the College RDF. For example, Pilcher was awarded £1150 to fund a symposium
on naming practices, one of the outcomes of which was a Sociology paper shortlisted for the
2017 Sage innovation prize. Similarly, Carter was awarded £1650 to host a two-day symposium
entitled ‘The Animal Challenge to Social Sciences’, an event that underpinned the publication of

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
papers in Journal for the Theory of Social Behaviour and The European Journal of Social Theory.
Support has also been provided for impact and engagement activities, with colleagues Sharma
and Williams in DICE receiving £64,000 of College support for projects involving local BAME
communities (see Section 4). Further support has been provided from University-level sources,
including £16k from WTISSF and £38.5k from ESRC IAA — both block grants awarded to
Leicester to facilitate cross-disciplinary working and impact, for example: Sanchez-Taylor’s £3k
ESRC IAA award to develop impact relating to her BA-funded project ‘Ending violence against
sex workers’; Hughes’ £7.5k award to extend the impact of his CRUK-funded work on
adolescent e-cigarette use. Additionally, O’Reilly received support from the Global Research
Challenges (QR) Fund (GCRF): a £4.5k award for work on ‘Resilience and mental health in
street children’ (2020); £10k to inform the transformation of child mental health services through
child participation (2019); and a further £6k to inform an exploration of child mental health
provision in Dhaka low-income communities (2019).

Research Infrastructure and facilities
The Research Committee also acts as a forum for discussions and decisions on strategy,
research infrastructure, funding opportunities and collaborative working. The Director of
Research represents the UoA at College and University level committees and fora, ensuring
sharing of strategy and practice.

MCS has a Research Development Fund (RDF) financed from FEC overheads to support
research development for all colleagues, including PhD students and RAs, spreading the benefits
of the Unit’s grant capture beyond PIs. Each research cluster holds a budget (notionally
£15,000PA) and can allocate a maximum of £2,000 per applicant. Recent examples include:
grant writing support; grant/publication planning; pilot research expenses; transcription; specialist
equipment/software; impact/KE including evidence capture. Priority is given to early career staff,
first-time applicants for substantial grants, and applicants leveraging additional funding
externally. School support is also provided for the organisation of research events, workshops
and international conferences aligned with cluster themes.

Open Access (OA) is integral to our research strategy, supported by the University’s ambitious
OA Policy, enhanced by the research repository hosted through Figshare. We are conducting
projects where data are made open, specifically through the ESRC UK Data Service (Bassel,
Bartram, Misztal and Monforte), and through external collaborations, utilising archives such as
Timescapes (Hughes with the University of Leeds). The Unit’s research benefits from extensive
digital resources curated by the University Library (IES 4.2). Researchers benefit from targeted
training on: the latest enabling technologies (devices, software, services); enhancing digital
creation, innovation and scholarship; using centrally provided repositories and digital services;
accessing data in a flexible, yet secure environment on and off-site; digitally streamlining the
grant funding application process; and generating higher research impact. This approach has
benefitted a range of high-profile research activities and digital projects, for example, Hughes’
study of e-cigarette use by young people has involved the use of such resources to create a
digital repository of participant-generated materials.

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Collaboration is a central pillar of the Unit’s current and future research strategy and activities.
We have created an inclusive and friendly research culture which facilitates teamwork in all
aspects of our research. Within the Unit, staff routinely collaborate on outputs (>40 UoA co-


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
authored in this cycle) and externally-funded projects such as those mentioned in Section 3.
Moreover, staff are actively involved in multidisciplinary University-wide networks (e.g. Migration
Network, DICE or LIAS). These interdisciplinary networks have led to numerous collaborative
outputs; interdisciplinary research projects (e.g. White’s Employment Trajectories of STEM
Graduates); and joint PhD supervisions (e.g. Hughes and Tarrant – SAPPHIRE Group). Such
cross-institutional collaborations have also provided a major pathway to globally-reaching impact
serving as the basis for the UoA’s impact case studies, with, for example, medical sociological
work undertaken in the SAPPHIRE Group informing NHS and WHO guidelines on healthcare
intervention evaluations (ICS2).

In addition, we have a strong record of collaborative projects with academics and professionals in
other UK institutions and abroad. These include Hughes’ project Adolescent Vaping Careers
(jointly with the University of Leeds); Sanchez-Taylor’s Revisiting Child Sex Tourism project
(with the University of Bristol); Chattoe-Brown’s ‘Realistic Computational Models of Social
Influence’ (with Manchester Metropolitan University); and Goodwin and O’Connor’s Youth
Opportunities? (with the University of Glasgow). Collaborative projects beyond the UK, include
the ESRC project Exploring the Frames of Altruistic Action (led by Monforte, with the University
of Nantes), the DigiGen project, for which Dunning is Co-Investigator (in collaboration Panteion
University, Vienna, Girona and Paderborn) and the 2012–2016 European COST Action on
transcultural memory in which Misztal was a member (along with researchers from 33 different
countries). A further example is the FWO project The Transformative Capacity of Blood Donation
Among Ethnic Minorities, in which Monforte is Co-Investigator, in collaboration with the
University of Ghent.

Collaborations with Stakeholder Organisations
As a core part of our impact strategy, staff in our unit regularly engage with a diverse range of
individuals and institutions beyond the academy. This includes third sector organisations such as
the Race Equality Centre (Williams, Campbell, Monforte), Action on Smoking in Health
(Hughes), Public Health England (Hughes), Refugee Council and Cimade (France) (Monforte),
Citizens UK (Hughes), ASEC, Brazil (O’Reilly) Hussaini Foundation, Pakistan (O’Reilly),
Childline (O’Reilly), British Red Cross (O’Reilly), Belgian Red Cross (Monforte), government
bodies such as the House of Lords Select Committee on Citizenship and Civic Engagement
(Bassel, Bartram, Misztal, Monforte), schools and educational institutions (White, Hughes,
O’Reilly), and the NHS (O’Reilly, Hughes). More specifically, staff have presented research
plans for a restudy of Elias and Scotson’s work to the residents of South Wigston through
collaborations with residents’ associations and have disseminated findings of their research on
citizenship and the ‘Refugees Welcome’ movement to charities and colleges. Our sustained
collaboration with stakeholder organisations resulted in key public events such as: the
conferences organised by the Migration Network and DICE (e.g. the talks given by Yasmin
Alibhai-Brown in 2016 and by Baroness Sayeeda Warsi in 2018); the end of project stakeholder
workshops on the ‘Citizenship Test Process’ and on The Frames of Altruistic Action (organised
by Bassel and Monforte).

Contribution to the Research Base
Members of this unit have organised and participated in a wide range of national and
international conferences such as ISA World Congress, ASA and ESA Conferences, with UoA
staff session organisers for key sections (e.g. Bartram for ISA RC31; Goodwin for ISA RC33).
Members of staff have also organized major international events such as: the 2016, 2017 and
2018 Kurdish Studies Summer School (Leicester and Paris, with scholars, postgraduate students
and community advocates from across the world); the conference ‘From the Past to the Present

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and Towards Possible Futures’ (Leicester, 2014, 200 participants); the three-day ISA RC33
International Conference on Social Science Methodology (Leicester, 2016, 500 participants); the
CES Conference on the Right to the City (Madrid, 2019, 70 participants). Since REF2014,
colleagues have delivered invited lectures and keynote talks at more than 20 international
conferences. It is also significant that members of staff have published outputs – or have had
their outputs translated – in French, German, Hungarian, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese,
Spanish, Turkish and Italian.

Our contribution to the research base is widely-recognised. The awards that members of staff
have received since August 2013 is a testimony of this. Bartram was awarded the Editorial
Board of Migration Studies best paper prize (2013), O’Connor received the Equalities Champion
Award and the Advancing Gender Equality Award (2016), Hughes received the Sage Prize for
Innovation/Excellence (2018), and O’Reilly received the Nottinghamshire Healthcare NHS
Foundation Trust award (2018) and the Anselm Strauss Award for Qualitative Family Research
(2019).

Leadership in the Academic Community
Our staff serve the interests of the wider research base through representation in numerous
national and international research organisations. For instance, Goodwin is Chair of both the
Data, Infrastructure, Skills, and Methods Expert Advisory Group (ESRC) and the ESRC Strategic
Advisory Network. Hughes is member of the Board of the Norbert Elias Foundation, the Moral
Panics Research Network, and the Figurational Research Network. Bartram is President
of RC31 at the ISA and a member of the Scientific Board of RN35 at the ESA. O’Connor is a
Trustee of the British Sociological Association. Goodwin, O’Connor and Hughes are elected
fellows of the Academy of Social Science, with Hughes also an honorary Member of Academia
Europea.

We serve our disciplines through editorial work and peer-reviewing applications and publications
on a regular basis. Staff review grant applications for different bodies and schemes, nationally
and internationally, including the AHRC, ESRC, MRC, CRUK, NIHR, Wellcome Trust, British
Academy, and the Finnish Academy. Within this REF cycle staff members have undertaken
Editor positions on journals including Sociological Research Online (Hughes) and Journal of
Youth Studies (O’Connor and Goodwin), and Editorial Board positions on Sociology
(O’Connor) Irish Journal of Sociology (Goodwin), Belvedere: Hungarian Sociology Journal
(Goodwin), Journal of Happiness Studies (Bartram), Identities (Campbell), Human Figurations
(Hughes), Historical Social Research (Hughes). Staff have also made a major contribution to
PGR support outside of Leicester, serving as external examiners for many UK universities (e.g.
Kent, Sheffield, OU, Aberystwyth, Durham, Lancaster, De Montfort, Essex) as well as in
internationally (e.g. Scuola Normale Superiore, Italy; University of Ghent, Belgium; Open
University of Mauritius; University of the West Indies, Barbados). Staff have also served as
external examiners both nationally (e.g. at Kent, City, Loughborough, Birmingham, Abertay,
Edinburgh, Nottingham, Surrey, York) and internationally (e.g. The University of Mauritius,
Mauritius Institute of Education, The University of Hong Kong).

Contributions to Economy and Society
Our work has been promoted through extensive public engagement. Staff have made multiple
media appearances discussing smoking and vaping, women in science, cosmetic surgery,
beauty pageants, football finances, and Leicester City as model of sports diversity (with over 60
engagements with major media outlets nationally, BBC, ITV, Channel 4, and globally, etc.
ESPN). Williams, for example, has made major contributions to public understandings of sport

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and diversity. These include the co-production of a MOOC on English Football which has had
over 5000 registered learners since its launch in 2018; a documentary film, Make us Dream
(2018), and 14 articles for The Conversation since 2014.

Additionally, the UoA has used arts-based methods to engage various communities and develop
the impact of research. In 2016 we hosted a (£15K) Leverhulme-funded visual Artist in
Residence, Kajal Nisha Patel who developed a series of workshops using reflective writing, arts
and crafts to document the lives of South Asian women, forming the basis for a public installation
displayed at Leicester during her residency. Sanchez-Taylor’s BA-funded project researching
child sex tourism featured an exhibition of posters by sex workers about trafficking, tourism and
sex work shown at the British Academy and at Brown University, USA.

A central vehicle for the UoA’s contribution to public discourse has been the establishment of
DICE: the Unit for Diversity, Inclusion and Community Engagement. This unit, embedded within
UoA21, underpins many of our existing research strengths, including our ‘Belonging’ and
‘Exchange’ research clusters. DICE was set up as a collaborative venture with Williams the
Academic Lead, and Surinder Sharma (Honorary Visiting Fellow within the School) the
Community Lead. Williams’ highly influential work on sports, ethnicity and participation is
combined through DICE with Sharma’s exceptional third sector experience and expertise on
diversity, equality, and inclusion, including former roles in the Commission for Racial Equality and
as the first National Director for Equality & Human Rights at the Department of Health and the
National Health Service.

DICE has attracted funding from a range of sources including Sporting Equals and Sports
England in relation to a series of inclusivity, community engagement, impact and dissemination
activities. For instance, DICE has worked extensively on promoting sport for BAME women, in
basketball, cycling, football coaching and governance. It has also worked with Leicestershire
CCC and the Leicester County FA to advise on diversity and inclusion issues. Between
November 2018 and January 2019 DICE managed, with Sporting Equals, a unique training event
for BAME people who have ambitions for moving into sports governance. DICE has also
developed a popular Public Lecture series with events attracting among the largest audiences of
their kind for the University of Leicester and, crucially, audiences whose members included a
high proportion of people who previously had no relationship with the University of Leicester or
other HEIs. High-profile speakers have included, Bhiku Parekh, Baroness Warsi, Yasmin Alibhai-
Brown, and Herman Ousley— leading BAME voices. In addition, DICE has run a series of
workshops and symposia with local community members relating to such topics as policing,
mental health, globalisation, and student mothers in Higher Education. Finally, DICE is centrally
involved in the University’s widening participation work and is a partner on the QR/TASO-funded
decolonising the curriculum research project led by Campbell.

UoA work has featured in interviews with media outlets nationally (e.g. BBC News, ITV News,
Channel 4 News, BBC World News, Radio 4, The Guardian, The Telegraph, The Conversation,
etc.) and internationally (e.g. ESPN and news broadcasters in Germany, Japan, Brazil, Italy,
Spain, and the USA), plus outputs in journals — from Sociology to Nature — that highlight the
interdisciplinarity and international prominence of our Unit. The UoA has also hosted and
organised major conferences and symposia, including the first Kurdish Studies Summer Schools
(2016, 2017, 2018), From Past to Present and Towards Possible Futures (2014), and the
International Sociological Association (ISA) RC33 9th International Conference on Social Science
Methodology (2016).


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Conclusion
In this REF cycle, the UoA has made dramatic enhancements to every aspect of its activity: grant
capture, increased interdisciplinary and cross-institutional collaborations, PGR completions,
public engagement, societal contribution and impact, and scholarly leadership. Our successes
have been enabled through a radically overhauled research environment, guided by strategies
that have grown organically in partnerships within and beyond UoL. All staff submitted have
secured external awards from a range of funders encompassing a broad array of sociological
concerns. UoA staff contributions to major disciplinary, academic and sectoral bodies provide a
voice for the future of the discipline. Our global reputation has been extended further through
field-leading scholarly publications and extensive high profile media engagements. However,
most importantly we have aimed to contribute to positive social change, both through enhancing
public understandings of major social issues (i.e. immigration, health, consumption life
transitions, political participation and protest, race and ethnicity, sport) and through meaningful
engagement with vital social groups – civil society organisations, community representatives,
local and national political representatives, and professional practitioners.

Our vision for the future is to continue our upward trajectory through the pursuit of a core
strategy: to achieve meaningful internationally-reaching research and impact via community
embeddedness and collaborative interdisciplinarity. These principles have allowed us to flourish
as a distinctively ambitious and inclusive UoA, reflecting a continuation of the tradition of
sociology at the University of Leicester, enhanced through the uniqueness of Leicester as a
place.




                                                                                           Page 16
