Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: Oxford Brookes University

 Unit of Assessment: 18

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit Context and Strategic Goals.

 Since its first entry into the RAE/REF in 2001, research has become increasingly mainstream in the
 life of the School of Law, rising from 6 FTE (31%) in 2001 to 15.3 FTE (76%) in 2021. We have
 developed a strong and sustainable research environment that has ensured the achievement of a
 number of goals building on the strategic thinking set out in REF2014. We have achieved this in the
 context of remaining a relatively small group of researchers (our 15.3 FTE, our largest ever, comparing
 with the Law average in REF2014 of 23.2), supporting a full range of teaching programmes. We have
 achieved this through sustained focus on achieving five strategic goals.

 Firstly, generating synergies between researchers. We actively encourage, through both internal
 networking and targeted funding around events and support for joint grant applications, projects which
 collaboratively deliver high quality outcomes (2014 goal 2). As a result, we have developed five
 research groups within the School: Fundamental Rights and Equality (led by Morano-Foadi), Criminal
 Law and Criminal Justice (Lloyd), Critical Approaches to Law (Kotsakis), International Law (Huang)
 and Small Jurisdictions (Edge). Our topic focus brings together colleagues using a range of research
 methodologies including doctrinal, socio-legal, and critical legal approaches. It has also led to links,
 evidenced by joint research grants, publications and events, with disciplines elsewhere in Brookes:
 particularly with the Global Politics, Economy and Society Research Centre in the Department of Social
 Sciences (e.g. Edge’s work on small democracies entered as an Impact Case Study (ICS) in UoA 19),
 the Centre for Diversity Policy Research and Practice (CDPRP) in the Business School (e.g. Vickers
 and Morano-Foadi separate joint work with Manfredi, entered in UoA17) and the cross-university
 Ethical AI Institute (led by Bakalis) (see further 1.2.1). We also encourage, and support, links outside
 the University (see further 4).

 Secondly, supporting effective research leadership. Our development of research leaders has
 emphasised transferrable expertise, without discouraging research leaders working on joint projects
 with other colleagues (for instance Edge and John-Hopkins work for the China Tribunal). This is
 reflected in our approach to mentoring, which recognises methodological fit as well as shared subject
 expertise (1.2.2); our division of senior leadership roles by generic functions such as proposal writing
 (Edge, see 3), open access and open data (Edge, 1.4), ethics review (Morano-Foadi, 1.5) and
 doctoral supervision (Cooper then Morano-Foadi, 1.2.3); and flexibility across the research leadership
 team (with the role of Research Lead for instance having been exercised at different times by Vickers,
 Edge, and Cooper).

 Thirdly, ensuring the sustainability of our research culture by enabling colleagues to reach their
 potential as researchers. This manifested in two related priorities. Firstly, targeted support for research
 by staff at every point in their research career (1.2.2), including staff development (2.2) (2014 goals 1
 and 3). This has led to improved retention of research staff – while only 35% of our 2008 submission
 were entered in 2014, 77% of our 2014 entry are entered here. Secondly, a commitment to equality
 and diversity in appointments, support, promotion, and driving change of university policy around
 equality and research (2.4).

 Fourthly, developing our research culture by the integration of impact on our work. Ensuring our
 significant research achieves the optimal reach is an individual and collective goal recognised in


                                                                                                     Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 discussion of individual research plans, allocation of research time, provision of research leave,
 support for stakeholder events and bespoke training (1.3).

 Finally, developing our research culture by the transformation of our doctoral community. We
 redoubled our commitment to PhD level work, resulting in a 600% increase in completions from 2014
 to now (2014 goal 5; see 2.3), in a context where University completions have largely remained static
 (IES section 3). This not only contributes to our research culture, and capacity to contribute to the
 discipline, but also provides crucial ways for our researchers to develop through gaining experience of
 supervision, and working closely with a scholar working directly in their field (1.2.3).

 The School is supported in achieving these goals by being part of the Faculty of Humanities and Social
 Sciences, which provides central support in relation to research planning, proposal writing and
 research student administration and training; provides targeted strategic funding; and actively
 encourages collaboration across the Faculty through supporting interdisciplinary work and regularly
 showcasing projects with the potential to draw in other researchers.

 1.2 Mechanisms for implementation.

 Sustained university investment in this UoA, as per the Institutional Environmental Statement (IES
 sections 3 and 4), has allowed us to implement specific mechanisms to achieve these strategic goals.
 Our mechanisms for supporting research impact are discussed fully at 1.3 below.

 1.2.1. Facilitating joint work.

 In accordance with our 2014 strategy, we have continued to develop strong collaborations within
 School research groups. For example, from the Fundamental Rights and Equality Group, Edge and
 Vickers worked together on the EHRC funded project detailed below; and in the Criminal Law and
 Criminal Justice group Lloyd and Bakalis co-edited a special issue on 'Dangerous Speech and
 Images' published in Information and Communications Technology Law.

 We recognise the value of interdisciplinary work, giving it parity in all competitive processes for
 research support and in personal research planning, drawing on expertise across the university to give
 feedback on interdisciplinary outputs, and providing dedicated training on interdisciplinarity and cross-
 disciplinary working. Our supportive environment for developing interdisciplinary research has led to
 good connections across our Faculty, particularly with colleagues in Politics (as shown by
 collaborations by Edge, John-Hopkins, Ganesh, Kotsakis and Lloyd). Colleagues also carry out
 sole authored interdisciplinary work, for instance Morrison’s work combining Middle East and Islamic
 studies with commercial and banking law, and Ganesh’s work across law and political theory.

 An example of collaborative work beyond our Faculty can be seen in our work with the CDPRP in the
 Business School. Morano-Foadi participated in an interdisciplinary project on Human Trafficking (the
 EC Directorate of Home Affairs funded COMBAT project); as well as an ongoing project, LAMINER,
 working with Lugosi (entered in UoA 17) on refugee integration into labour markets. Vickers has
 contributed to a number of interdisciplinary projects with CDPRP including the Advance HE
 commissioned study on Increasing the Diversity of Senior Leaders in Higher Education: The Role of
 Executive Search Firms.

 As well as engaging with established expertise in the University, we have contributed to university
 development of new specialisms, notably the Ethical AI Institute, involving Bakalis and John-Hopkins
 working with colleagues from computing (UoA11). Other such University Research Networks in which
 law plays a key part are Migration and Refugees (Morano-Foadi), Children and Families (Gordon-
 Bouvier), Healthy Ageing & Care (Vickers), and Diversity, Inclusion & Gender (Edge). The School is
 also developing closer working with colleagues in Criminology, with Alexandrescu returned in this


                                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UoA, and West (entered in UOA 28) planning interdisciplinary doctoral supervision with Bakalis. This
 new relationship will continue to be developed through joint delivery of new courses in Law and
 Criminology, underpinned by shared staff and a shared research culture.

 We aimed to increase external research income (2014 goal 4), and we have secured external
 resources to support our research from a range of sources. Our research income strategy stressed
 joint applications with other UoAs, and other universities; and seeking funding as teams from research
 users such as the EHRC. This has led to seeking and securing research income becoming mainstream
 in the school, with substantially more colleagues being involved, joining an established core of senior
 research staff who regularly submit grant proposals (see 3 below).

 1.2.2 Targeted support across career stages.

 Staff at all career stages benefit from generous time for research. Three year research plans are
 reviewed by experienced researchers, and made possible by substantial allocation of time for research
 activity. A tiered system of committing workload to research allows some flexibility in the pace of
 research, with the majority of researchers receiving 30%. The planning process allows staff to plan for
 longer projects which can be spread over a number of years (e.g. monographs by John-Hopkins and
 D. O’Brien) as well as to allow for grant applications (e.g. Huang and Kotsakis) and impact activity
 (e.g. events organised by Bakalis, Edge and Vickers) being an organic part of the research process.

 The majority of staff projects have been possible using this allocated research time; additional time is
 available via QR funded University Central Research Funds (CRF), with Cooper, and Vickers
 benefiting from this competitive programme of support during the period, and Huang doing so in early
 2021 (see IES). Additionally, as stated in our 2014 strategy, the School has introduced a system of
 research leave. Research leave has been awarded to 7 of our 16 research active staff during this REF
 cycle (Bakalis, Edge, Vickers, John-Hopkins, Kotsakis, P. O’Brien and Morano-Foadi). This leave
 has been used to develop original research, complete monograph scale projects, and maximise impact
 from original research. For example, after having published extensively from his PhD research, John-
 Hopkins used the additional time to take his research into new areas (e.g. cultural property within
 international criminal law). Taking his leave on return from paternity leave has also been of particular
 benefit in terms of compensating for time lost to research. Edge used research leave to undertake
 significant interdisciplinary impact activity in the Isle of Man, leading to his playing a key role in shaping
 the Manx constitutional debate (resulting in an ICS submitted to UoA19). Bakalis used sabbatical
 leave to reinvigorate her research in a rapidly moving area following a substantial administrative role
 (see 2.1). Morano-Foadi and Kotsakis used leave to complete monograph manuscripts.

 Early career researchers (ECRs) are appointed a research mentor and receive individual financial
 support from Faculty QR in the first three years of their research careers (averaging £1,200 per year),
 typically spent on conference attendance, specialist training, research assistance or teaching relief.
 Our research planning processes recognise that ECRs need to be given time to develop their work in
 this period, regardless of short term progress. Our ECR community has also been the subject of
 specific investment. The University prioritised use of QR funds (per IES section 3) to appoint an ECR
 through the Vice-Chancellor’s Research Fellow scheme (Ganesh), enhancing our International Law
 Group.

 Mid-career staff are supported to develop more ambitious research plans through our Personal
 Research Planning (PRP) process, and in developing bids for Faculty and University funding and
 external funding proposals. Mid-career staff also join PhD research teams led by a senior researcher
 to gain experience of that aspect of research leadership. Our annual Performance and Development
 Review process, which integrates consideration of the PRP, is used to guide colleagues’ strategic




                                                                                                        Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 thinking as they develop their profile into one of research leadership (e.g. recognition of Bakalis’
 research leadership in her appointment to her university-wide role in the Ethical AI Institute).

 Senior staff benefit from peer mentoring in relation to their own research work, and the Faculty’s wide
 experience in developing larger grant and consultancy projects. They have also benefited from
 continuing university investment in research areas in which they take a lead – for instance
 Fundamental Rights and Equality which has received a CRF Research Excellence Award (REA), and
 targeted doctoral studentship support.

 1.2.3 Building our doctoral community.

 The 2014 aim to increase the number of research students has been achieved, with a 600% increase
 in completions, and supervision now being undertaken by a majority of researchers (75%). The
 extensive support provided to research students is described under ‘People’ below. Our transformative
 growth in this area has been achieved by (i) investment of significant QR funds from the University
 and Faculty to provide fully-funded studentships (Allen, Clayton-Hathway, Briescova, Hayes); (ii)
 changes to our LLM in International Law programme, to facilitate smooth progression of LLM students
 on to our doctoral programme (e.g. Romero-Moreno, Fullah); (iii) subsequent teaching funded
 recruitment allowing us to appoint research active staff at all levels, including P. O’Brien (2017),
 Morrison (2018), and Ganesh (2019) to complement our existing research strength in international
 law (Kotsakis, John-Hopkins, Huang).

 Our doctoral students have gone on to a wide range of careers. As well as moving into research active
 academic posts (e.g. Clayton-Hathway, entered with UoA17; Romero-Moreno entered with
 Hertfordshire UoA17), former students have moved into policy roles relevant to their projects (e.g.
 Hayes), careers such as financial compliance (Borg Haviaras), and the legal professions (e.g.
 Brieskova, Alyseen).

 We do not award professional doctorates.

 1.3 Facilitating impact

 Our emphasis has been on supporting active researchers to capitalise on their research using
 Gauntlett’s Stairway to Impact model, which emphasises the researcher’s targeted dissemination of
 usable research findings to stakeholders. Our focus has been on shaping public policy by working with
 policy makers and NGOs, as detailed below and in the two ICS submitted. Support to maximise the
 impact of our research is available at School, Faculty and University level.

 At School level, planning for impact occurs as part of the annual research planning process with the
 provision of time for impact related activity. For example, both Bakalis and Cooper were supported
 with time to coordinate the SLS submissions to the Law Commission consultations on Hate Crime,
 Land Registration, and Wills.

 Faculty funding has also supported events aimed at key policy makers such as the conference hosted
 by Morano-Foadi in 2014 at the Council of Europe to disseminate her findings on European
 integration. Faculty support has made possible funding for individual impact enhancing events, such
 as seminars including Morano-Foadi’s two symposia on migration in Europe, including participation
 from Christos Stylianides, EU Commissioner for Humanitarian Aid and Crisis Management; and
 Alexandrescu’s 2018 event on regulation of new psychoactive substances, aimed at health care
 professionals and policy makers. In addition, two Faculty wide Think Human Festivals (2018 and 2020)
 have promoted public engagement with the research of the Faculty (see 4).




                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 At university level, impact has been facilitated through CRF Impact awards to support the organisation
 and hosting of events aimed at policy makers and other stakeholders, as well as support for research
 activity directed at non-academic audiences, such as Morrison’s lectures at the Bar Association for
 Commerce, Finance and Industry, and Serle Court Chambers (Lincoln’s Inn, London); Gordon-
 Bouvier’s work with the Law Society’s Family Law Committee (impact detailed below); Shipman’s
 meetings with Equinet; Edge’s series of workshops for the Manx Tynwald; and Huang’s presentation
 on China's strategies in trade/investment negotiations at a British Academy roundtable.

 From the wide range of impactful activity in the School, two ICSs have been selected. They illustrate
 the success of our approach to achieving impact: both draw on research by researchers who have
 developed their careers from early career onwards at Oxford Brookes; and in both cases the research
 and external activity has been supported through provision of time and funding to the researchers
 involved. Both ICSs demonstrate the benefits of collaboration in the generation of research ideas with
 others in the School and Faculty.

 The early stages of Vickers’ work on religion and belief equality were supported through the provision
 of research time to develop a new area of research, following the completion of an earlier research
 project in a different legal area. She was then provided with the support of the Faculty Grants Officers
 in securing AHRC research leave, which allowed a sabbatical year for the writing of her monograph
 Religious Freedom, Religious Discrimination and the Workplace. Her body of work on law and religion
 has also involved collaboration and co-authoring with Edge, who also has a research specialism in law
 and religion. This work led the EHRC to select, through competitive tender, Vickers and Edge to
 undertake a Review of equality and human rights law relating to religion or belief in 2015, which then
 fed into the EHRC policy on religion and belief equality, detailed in the impact case study. In addition,
 Vickers has also participated in a range of activities advising the EHRC, the European Commission
 and other stakeholders such as Humanists UK and the National Secular Society, as detailed in the
 case study. This project was supported by the award of additional research time from the University
 CRF as well as with financial support from the REA scheme to hold a seminar in the summer of 2019
 for stakeholders and policy makers to consider reform of the law on discrimination against teachers in
 faith schools; follow up work planned for 2020 was delayed by the pandemic.

 Bakalis’ work on hate crime has also been developed with the support of research time, supplemented
 by research leave in 2014 to reinvigorate her research after a period in a significant administrative role.
 This enabled her to extend the scope of her research into on-line hate. Bakalis’s early career work on
 hate speech was produced as part of an interdisciplinary project with Nash (History Professor, entered
 with UoA 28), and developed with input from mentoring support from within the school particularly with
 regard to equality law aspects of her project (Vickers), and external grant submissions (Edge). Her
 later work includes collaborations with colleagues at Sussex and QMUL and De Montfort. Her work
 has been used nationally by the Law Commission in its work on law reform for hate speech and online
 communications, and by NGOs such as the Suzy Lamplugh Trust. It has been taken up internationally
 by Europe’s Racism and Intolerance Commission (ECRI), including a recent report written by her for
 the Council of Europe making recommendations to the Armenian government on changes to their
 legislation on hate speech. This international profile contributed to her 2020 selection as national
 reporter for the International Academy of Comparative Law on Topic XVII (hate speech). Financial
 support from the University’s REA scheme has been provided for events such as the conference on
 hate crime held jointly by the NGO Equally Ours through which Bakalis’ research has informed the
 development of their policy on hate crime.

 1.4 Open access and open data.

 The School shares the University’s commitment to open research, drawing on University expertise and
 facilities to contribute to our discipline. It has extended its range of publications provided through our
 open access repository (RADAR) to include book chapters and monographs as well as journal articles

                                                                                                     Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 as required by REF open access policy. In addition, data generated by Edge is available as an open
 data set on RADAR: Manx Customary Laws and Parr's Abstract. Law colleagues have attended
 bespoke training (delivered by Edge) in how to approach the emerging open data agenda.

 1.5 Ethics procedures

 The University, Faculty and School have well established research ethics procedures, through which
 research integrity is maintained. This process also considers legal obligations related to data protection
 and privacy issues. Within the School a lead is taken on research ethics by Morano-Foadi. All research
 projects, including PhD research, involving human participants receive consideration by the Ethics
 Committee and can only proceed with approval.

 1.6 Future Strategy.

 Our fundamental priorities remain those which have shaped our practices since 2014, informed by the
 strategic planning process around REF 2021.

 Firstly, we will continue to support collaborative research projects which build on our distinctive
 research base (see IES section 2). As well as collaboration within our School, we will continue to
 develop links with colleagues in our Faculty (particularly in the fields of criminology and comparative
 constitutionalism), and the School of Business (particularly the CDPRP). The good fit between law
 expertise and a number of the university priority research themes (particularly Migration, Children and
 Families, Healthy Ageing, AI, and Diversity) will allow us to secure strategic support for this sort of
 collaboration. We will continue to support projects which draw on expertise outside of Oxford Brookes
 and internationally, through targeted use of event and travel funds.

 Secondly, we will continue to expect our research leaders to bring their broader academic and
 leadership skills to bear on supporting the work of colleagues across the School. During the next REF
 period, a number of our current leaders – like D O’Brien this period – plan rebalancing between work
 and retirement. As discussed below, as senior staff have retired or moved on they have been replaced
 by excellent early career colleagues (see 2.1). Consistently replacing senior staff with ECRs, however,
 risks thinning our research leadership capacity. A priority will be to ensure strong succession, both by
 development of mid-career colleagues (see 1.2.2), and by ensuring that future recruitment includes
 senior staff.

 Thirdly, we will continue to support colleagues across their career path. We will continue to provide
 targeted support in terms of time, including the successful sabbatical scheme established in the last
 cycle. Our ECRs will continue to benefit from University level training and development support through
 the new EXPLORE@Brookes programme (see IES section 3). We will continue to take a long term
 approach to ECRs, with our norm during the next REF period remaining that of permanent appointment
 to mixed teaching and research posts.

 Fourthly, we will continue to develop PhD supervision as the norm for our active researchers, and our
 goal is to use strategic investment to increase the percentage of research active staff involved in
 supervision to 100%. Drawing on expertise elsewhere in Brookes, we will seek to increase the amount
 of collaborative research undertaken by academic staff and their doctoral students, both to allow us to
 develop new work, and as career development for doctoral students facing challenging recruitment
 environments.

 Fifthly, we will maximise the impact and research benefit from resources available within the School
 and University. Recognising that the norm for our researchers will be mixed teaching/research roles,
 we will continue to maximise synergies between teaching and research; and use new posts made
 possible by increased teaching revenue to reinforce our research culture. We will seek Faculty and


                                                                                                    Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University support for teaching programmes that enhance interdisciplinary aspects of our research
 culture, for instance our growing work with criminologists based in the Faculty.

 Finally, we will bring more external resources into the School to support excellent research. The
 majority of our researchers’ work falls within the remit of the AHRC, and we will continue to draw on
 success across the Faculty to support colleagues applying to that funder. Recognising, however, the
 range of stakeholders with an interest in our work, we will focus more tightly on individual applications
 to third sector and international funders; collaborative proposals led by one of our experienced grant
 holders utilising strong links with colleagues in other disciplines (particularly in the university priority
 areas noted above) and stakeholders involved in our existing impact work; and collaborative proposals
 within our developed research groups. Although the latter is happening informally, we will work as a
 community to identify suitable projects for development, and provide additional resources in terms of
 RA and other support to develop strong proposals.

 Section 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy.

 We have ensured continued appointment of research active staff, making appointments at various
 levels of seniority, including Morrison (Reader); Gordon-Bouvier and Huang (Senior Lecturers); P.
 O’Brien (appointed as Lecturer, and promoted to Senior Lecturer in the period); and Ganesh
 (Research Fellow). These very significant appointments have allowed us to gather strong researchers
 able to build on synergies with existing colleagues. This strategy has led to a sustained increase in
 major research publications, grant activity, and engagement with users of our research.

 As a comparatively small law school, we have appointed staff to posts which combine research,
 teaching, and administration. This has contributed to the sustainability of our research culture – we
 continue to appoint to these posts on a permanent, rather than fixed term, basis, including ECR
 appointments. The mechanisms outlined above (1.2.2) have allowed colleagues to produce excellent
 research alongside their other commitments. This is demonstrated by the success of research active
 staff in developing their research careers while also holding significant administrative roles (e.g. Edge
 and Vickers as interim Heads of School; Bakalis, Shipman and D. O’Brien as Programme Leads,
 with leadership for the Law teaching programmes; and Lloyd, Kotsakis, Huang and Morrison as
 course coordinators for LLB, LLM, and GDL).

 As our critical mass of active researchers in international law developed, however, we benefited from
 the commitment of £138,000 of CRF funding, allowing the appointment of a three-year Vice-
 Chancellor’s Research Fellowship to the School (Ganesh). His focus on research has made an
 important contribution to this Group, through developing research ideas, collaborating with others
 through joint seminars with visiting speakers, and engaging in dialogue with researchers in other
 Departments within the Faculty

 2.2 Staff-development

 As noted above, as a School we have continued to invest substantially to support research staff at all
 career stages (1.2.2). Additionally, the University provides significant institutional level support and
 development for research careers (see further IES section 3). Three colleagues who have benefited
 from this process before 2014 have proceeded to develop successful research profiles at Oxford
 Brookes (Kotsakis, Lloyd and John-Hopkins); while a fourth is currently part-way through the
 programme (Ganesh). This University support is supplemented by significant Faculty-level support
 and investment through the provision of financial and mentoring support for early career colleagues.
 This includes training in research project management, provision of a research mentor, and access to



                                                                                                      Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 additional funding to support research expenses. Aspects of this training – for instance grant bidding,
 research student supervision, and project management – are open to all research active staff.

 As noted above, we have worked to develop stronger support for staff beyond the early career stage.
 The School’s Research Committee is chaired by the Research Lead (currently Edge, formerly
 Vickers), and is made up of our Professors and Readers. It provides mentoring, reviews research
 outputs and annual research plans, and develops and delivers the School research strategy. Research
 staff all have research mentors drawn from our research committee. Mentors provide advice and
 guidance in the early stages of developing a project, as well as acting as readers for outputs in advance
 of submission for publication. The Committee as a whole gives feedback on rolling three year plans,
 creating opportunities to discuss plans for developing research outputs, achieving impact and making
 grant applications.

 As part of our implementation of the research strategy proposed in REF 2014, we introduced a QR
 funded system of research leave. A semester’s research leave is awarded to up to two members of
 staff each year. Research leave has been awarded to ECRs as well as those more established in their
 careers, and in some cases has been used to help those who have discharged significant
 administrative roles to reinvigorate their research (see 2.2.2).

 Our research support mechanisms are available equally to those undertaking impact related work, as
 well as research – with impact activities, for instance, being given parity with academic outputs in
 allocating research time. Additional central university funding is made available for impact related work,
 such as University REAs to support Bakalis to host a workshop on hate crime for the Law Commission,
 Edge to carry out a series of impact events in the Isle of Man, and Vickers to host a seminar on
 Religion and Faith Schools with stakeholders including teaching unions and faith groups. The university
 continues to commit resources to this area, for instance through Edge’s follow-up REA to continue to
 work with the Manx legislature in 2021; and Huang’s similar award to work with business actors in
 2021.

 Staff also have access to financial support for conference attendance and other research expenses.
 Funding for conference attendance of around £500 per head annually has allowed all researchers to
 attend conferences both nationally and internationally. Examples are numerous and include for
 Kotsakis to attend the Association for Environmental Studies and Sciences Annual Conference, 2016;
 Lloyd to attend the Study of Law, Culture and the Humanities at Stanford, 2017; and Morrison to
 attend the World Congress of Middle East Studies, 2018. Faculty funding for research activity is also
 available through a competitive bidding process, with many staff making successful bids during the
 period for funds for research related travel (e.g. Edge) and for research assistance to assist with
 research and grant applications (e.g. Morano-Foadi). During the Coronavirus pandemic we continued
 to support conference attendance and networking by conference fees for virtual conferences such as
 SLS 2020.

 The School holds regular staff seminars, at which staff present on-going research, with seminars
 continuing online during the pandemic. This helps early career staff integrate into our research culture
 as well providing a supportive forum for other relatively inexperienced staff to develop their research
 ideas. An annual Faculty Research Conference creates further opportunities for staff to integrate into
 the Faculty, and explore opportunities for interdisciplinary collaborations.

 The success of our policy of supporting research at all career stages can be seen in the promotion of
 D. O’Brien to Reader in 2014, Morano-Foadi to Professor in 2020, and the appointment of our doctoral
 student Clayton-Hathway as a permanent Research Fellow in Brookes’ CDPRP. Success in creating
 a more sustainable and nurturing research culture can also be seen in the significant reduction in the
 turnover of staff during the period of assessment (see 1.1). Moreover the limited turnover which has
 occurred (e.g. Cooper’s appointment to a chair at Aston) has led to the appointment of new staff with

                                                                                                    Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 strong research profiles (e.g. Gordon-Bouvier, P. O’Brien) who have enabled us to sustain our
 research culture. Almost all research active staff work under permanent contracts, (with the exception
 of our centrally funded Vice-Chancellor’s Research Fellow) and this provides a high level of stability.

 2.3 Research students

 The unit now has a strong doctoral student culture. This aspect of our research culture has seen a very
 strong upwards trajectory since the previous two assessment cycles, with no PhD completions in 2008,
 two in 2014, rising to 12 completions this period, with 13 continuing research students (see 1.2.3).

 The University has invested extensively in research student training and skill development (IES section
 3). Complementing this, the Faculty has developed a supportive strategy for research students, and
 provides extensive support and training for doctoral students. All PhD students are supervised by
 research active staff who have received tailored supervisor training, led by an experienced supervisor.
 Students have the opportunity to attend a suite of university research training events, and are provided
 with funding for conference attendance (typically £450 per student). A Faculty level Doctoral Training
 Programme, consisting of year round events, covers issues such as starting and sustaining a research
 project, research methods and critical approaches, and preparing for a viva, as well as a session
 dedicated to equality diversity and inclusion in research careers. In addition, an annual research
 student conference is held at which students present their research. Students are supported in
 international conference attendance by matched funding with external bodies (for example, Hayes in
 Brazil (Santander), Allen in the US (ICLRS)).

 Support is also provided at School level by the Postgraduate Research Tutor (PGRT), Morano-Foadi,
 who runs the School induction and coordinates PhD students’ progress. At transfer stage, research
 students give a presentation as part of the weekly staff seminar series at which they receive detailed
 feedback from academic staff on their work. At the end of each year, research students meet with the
 PGRT and another member of academic staff from outside of the supervision team to monitor and
 review progress.

 We have a strategy of creating opportunities for our PhD students to develop the necessary experience
 to equip themselves for future academic careers. For instance, Allen has taken up teaching
 opportunities at undergraduate and master’s level; Clayton-Hathway has co-authored with Vickers an
 article in the Industrial Law Journal; Brieskova has collaborated with Morano-Foadi on a range of
 activities around migration; Haviaras has helped to organize a major conference hosted by Brookes,
 and Hayes undertook a research visit to develop our ongoing research association between colleagues
 at Brookes working on law and religion and colleagues working on similar issues in Brazil.

 2.4 Equality and Diversity

 Advancing equality of opportunity for all researchers, and a concern for equality and diversity, is
 embedded into our University systems and structures as detailed in our Code of Practice, and the IES
 (section 3). The School has been assiduous in operationalising these values, but also in ensuring that
 we reflect on the outcomes of these systems – for instance reviewing our award of study leave to
 confirm that it was awarded equally between men and women; and ensuring our allocation of research
 time does not create inequalities in terms of protected characteristics.

 Research career pathways are provided on an equal basis for part-time staff, with pro-rata research
 allowances provided to those on fractional appointments (e.g. P. O’Brien); and D. O’Brien has
 remained on the research committee whilst on a fractional post. Flexible retirement options have also
 been used to enable staff to continue with their research activity by combining partial retirement with




                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 fractional appointments (D. O’Brien, Shipman). Support for early career staff is provided through our
 extensive support provision for ECRs detailed above (2.2.2).

 Staff returning from maternity leave are able to work flexibly to enable phased return to work, helping
 to ensure research career continuity. Flexible working options are routinely taken up by staff with caring
 responsibilities. The university ‘teaching constraints’ scheme enables staff to organise their teaching
 week to fit around caring responsibilities, including elderly dependents. This is supplemented at School
 level by a willingness to accommodate working patterns, and switches to fractional appointments, to
 support colleagues. As a result, staff have been able to combine a high level of research activity with
 primary caregiving for children, and disabled child and elder care. The effectiveness of our supportive
 research environment is illustrated by both our Impact Case Studies being led by researchers who
 have had periods of maternity leave (seven periods in total) during previous REF cycles; and the
 inclusion in our entry of colleagues who have taken periods of leave inked to long term illness, as well
 as shorter periods of leave for three colleagues linked to becoming a parent.

 Our preparations for the REF continued this emphasis on EDI. Of the 21 (by headcount) Law School
 staff, 76% (16) have significant responsibility for research; 78% of women, 75% of men. There were
 no significant differences for any of the other protected characteristics. The research committee that
 advised on the choice of outputs for submission comprised 50% women; 50% non-UK nationals, 25%
 non-EU/former EU nationals; and 25% British minority ethnic groups. During preparatory audits,
 equality impact assessments (EIA) have been undertaken, and action taken to ensure equal
 distribution in the distribution of outputs across this submission. For example, in deciding which outputs
 to submit, we have undertaken a review to ensure a spread of work from early career and more
 established researchers, to ensure a spread across genders, and to ensure that the impact of any
 disability is properly understood by the panel creating the entry.

 Two particular initiatives demonstrate the commitment to these issues in the School research
 leadership. First, Vickers has drawn on her research on equality in research careers, to develop and
 deliver university-wide training on equality issues relating to the REF. Second, Edge has led a
 university wide initiative to develop the Oxford Brookes Protocol for Inclusive Conferences
 (https://www.brookes.ac.uk/inclusive-conferences/protocol/). This Protocol seeks to support
 academics in Brookes and elsewhere in developing conferences which are inclusive not only in
 relation to protected characteristics, but in relation to other issues impacting on inclusion such as
 class. It has been taken up beyond Brookes, for instance with the SLS Disability Statement of 2020
 referring those organising events to the Protocol.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income.

 We have created a more sustainable research culture in terms of improved investment and
 infrastructure for research and impact, improved research facilities and an increase in research
 income. In addition to the support processes and financial investment outlined above for carrying out
 research and achieving impact, additional infrastructure and structures exist to support the generation
 of research income. This has been the subject of significant investment from the Faculty with funding
 provided for two Research Grant Officers (RGOs) to support the income generating work of the
 Departments. Equivalent support in terms of administrative support and mentoring is also available for
 those seeking research-informed knowledge exchange funding.

 Our Faculty Grants Panel (FGP, chaired by Edge) pairs experienced grant writers as mentors for those
 writing bids from the very beginning of the grant writing process. Mentors read and provide advice on
 early drafts of bids, and final versions are commented on by an additional member of the FGP. ECRs
 are provided with intensive mentoring as part of this process. In addition to facilitating mentoring

                                                                                                   Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 support, the FGP and RGOs provide training opportunities within the Faculty, such as research grant
 writing training for PhD students and ECRs; workshops on seeking external fellowships; and
 workshops on planning proposals and managing resubmissions. The FGP have also organised visits
 from research funders such as Leverhulme and AHRC. Within the School, support for grant writing is
 provided through the workload planning process, as well as regular meetings for staff in the School
 who are planning to submit grants to share ideas and provide initial peer mentoring at the early stages
 of developing grant applications. In addition we have encouraged staff to develop experience by
 working as Co-I on grants external to Oxford Brookes, such as Shipman’s Nuffield funded project with
 Essex.

 The success of these mechanisms can be seen in the increase in our bidding rates. We have secured
 substantially more funding to support our research culture - drawing on research projects through
 internal and external collaboration, consultancy synergetic with our research expertise, and contract
 research. Examples include funding awarded by Nuffield (Shipman, £9,000), the European
 Commission (Vickers €10,000, and Morano-Foadi share in EC commission funded COMBAT project
 on human trafficking), the EHRC (Edge and Vickers £31,000), the Leadership Foundation for Higher
 Education (Vickers, £3,000), the Royal Society (Kotsakis (£2,000); and the Chiang Ching-kuo
 Foundation for International Scholarly Exchange (Huang €15,000).

 During this assessment period, a greater number of staff have been supported through our established
 infrastructure for generating research income, with a 50% increase in the number of colleagues
 submitting proposals for external funding. This has led to a 75% increase in the number of colleagues
 whose work has been supported by external funding (from 4 to 7), an important contribution to the
 sustainability of our research culture. We will build upon this success in the next cycle, as outlined in
 1.6.

 The University has begun to invest in the development of areas of cross university interdisciplinary
 strength in areas such as Gender and Diversity; Migration & Refugees; Children and Families; and
 Ethical AI (see IES section 2). As detailed in section 4 below, a substantial number of staff from the
 School are involved in research in these areas. An early success of this initiative can be seen in the
 creation of the Ethical AI Institute, which has successfully gained external funding from Research
 England of over £1,300,000, which has funded a quarter of Bakalis’s time to focus on developing the
 work of the Institute across the Faculty.

 Research funding awarded from JISC in the 2014 REF period for a project on “Embedding impact
 analysis”(£13,000) has been further developed into a university wide ‘impact tracker’ that has helped
 staff plan for, and track, the impact of their research among a wide range of research users, both
 academic and non-academic.

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities.

 In contrast to the last REF period, as a result of sustained university infrastructure development (see
 IES section 4), all law researchers are now located in a single building. This includes dedicated office
 space for visiting scholars and PhD students. For small colloquia and research events we benefit from
 meeting spaces dedicated to the School. For larger events, the opening of the new John Henry Brookes
 Building in 2014 has created a significantly enhanced physical environment for research events such
 as the Faculty’s Think Human festival, and School events such as Morano-Foadi’s two conferences
 on migration, as well as for events designed to develop the impact of our research.

 Brookes has substantial library holdings, and electronic subscriptions, relevant to our research.
 Research staff, including PhD students and academic visitors, further benefit from access to the
 Bodleian Libraries, which provide world-class library resources as well as substantial unique
 holdings. As scholars based in Oxford, we further benefit from involvement in research networks and

                                                                                                  Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 events held at Oxford University – Vickers for instance is a member of the Oxford Human Rights
 Hub, while Morano-Foadi is a Research Associate at the International Migration Institute.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1. Collaboration.

 As noted above, encouraging collaboration with specialists in other institutions, and strong
 engagement with users of research has been key to our strategy. We have supported this by targeted
 School funding, and supporting colleagues in securing competitive Faculty and University funding.

 The School has encouraged collaborative projects with academic colleagues in other institutions. This
 is supported by the University’s International Collaborative Research and Travel Awards Scheme.
 Support from this scheme has been given to Kotsakis, Edge, Gordon-Bouvier, and Huang. The
 effectiveness of this support can be seen in the award to Huang of funding from the Chiang Ching-kuo
 Foundation following the funding of her visit to Dr Nan Hsun Chang, at Soochow University, Taiwan to
 develop a joint research project. Funding from this scheme enabled Edge and Gordon-Bouvier to
 take up Visiting Fellowships (at Trinity College Dublin and Emory University USA); and Kotsakis to
 co-host a research conference jointly with Vito De Lucia from University of Tromso, Norway.

 Our emphasis on encouraging collaborative work has resulted in a range of effective research
 collaborations. Examples include: Edge’s involvement in a joint research report for a member of the
 Manx legislature with Jersey Law Commissioners and Queensland University published in October
 2019, and his project with Pauline Ridge (ANU, Australia) on Challenges of Regulating Income
 Generation by Religions (CRIG-R), begun in 2020; Gordon-Bouvier’s convening of workshops and
 symposia with colleagues at Manchester and Canterbury Christ Church University; and Shipman’s
 joint research project, funded by the Nuffield Foundation, on The Role of National Human Rights
 Institutions in Providing Access to Justice with McGregor (Essex) and Murray (Bristol).

 4.2 Contribution to the economy and society.

 The vitality and diversity of our research culture is demonstrated by the wide range of colleagues
 involved in developing impactful relationships with research users. In addition to the substantial impact
 detailed in our Unit’s two ICS, and Edge’s ICS for UoA 19, colleagues are involved in numerous other
 collaborations beyond academia. For example, as a member of the Law Society’s Family Law
 Committee Gordon-Bouvier co-authored responses to proposed legislation (e.g. Divorce Dissolution
 and Separation Bill 2017-2019, Domestic Abuse Bill 2017-2019). She also contributed to the Society's
 response to the Law Commission's Surrogacy Law consultation. As part of her Nuffield Foundation
 project on National Human Rights Institutes, Shipman has hosted meetings with NHRIs, as well as
 with the EU Fundamental Rights Agency, UNOCHR, and the Asia Pacific Forum Secretariat. Morano-
 Foadi has acted as an expert to the European Parliament's Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
 Morano-Foadi was also the legal expert on Oxford Brookes University’s COMBAT project funded by
 the EC Directorate of Home Affairs under the Internal Security Fund targeting human trafficking, which
 involved the development of a preventive and remedial training toolkit for the hospitality and tourism
 industry. The project has had wide reaching impact through change of industry policy including the
 endorsement of the toolkit by the Institute of Hospitality in June 2017, and through its use by the Shiva
 Foundation which has based its Stop Slavery Blueprint for the hospitality industry on resources created
 as part of the COMBAT project. Both Morano-Foadi and Vickers have been speakers at the Academy
 of European Law, founded by the EU and which runs courses attended by judges, prosecutors, and
 lawyers from across Europe.

 We are committed to public engagement activity to promote a greater public understanding of law in
 the context of the humanities and social sciences. To this end we have fully participated in the Faculty

                                                                                                  Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 festival Think Human, held in 2018 and 2020, facilitating and promoting our engagement with external
 communities. In 2018, Bakalis and Lloyd ran workshops for schools on cyberhate and sexting, aimed
 to engage students with intellectual questions about how the law can engage with the issues society
 faces on the internet. In 2020, Lloyd co-hosted with West (UoA 28) an event on consent and media
 depictions of consent aimed at secondary school pupils, Alexandrescu collaborated with charity
 Turning Point on an event around recovery from addiction; while Edge co-hosted with Munro (UoA
 27) a public reading by poets from Scotland, Wales and the Isle of Man presenting their work in a
 range of languages, along with academic discussion of the broader connections between language,
 law, and constitutional structures.

 Our responsiveness to national and international priorities is seen particularly in research and impact
 related work undertaken on migration, human trafficking, environmental law, ageing, and
 interdisciplinary work being developed on artificial intelligence.

 4.3 Contribution to the research base.

 Staff contribute strongly to the process of research dissemination through journal editorship (e.g Nadj,
 Queen Mary Human Rights Law Journal; Kotsakis, Assistant Editor of the Transnational
 Environmental Law Journal 2014-2018), editorial board membership (e.g. Vickers, Oxford Journal of
 Law and Religion; Alexandrescu, Drugs and Alcohol Today), and reviewing. Staff undertake reviewing
 for a wide range of journals including Legal Studies, Modern Law Review, Oxford Journal of Legal
 Studies, Industrial Law Journal, Public Law, Civil Justice Quarterly, Journal of African Law and the
 European Journal of Current Legal Issues; and reviewing for publishers such as Palgrave, Hart
 Publishing, Oxford University Press and Cambridge University Press.

 Associations with the wider academy include Huang as visiting professor at Soochow University,
 Taiwan and National Chengchi University Taiwan; Morrison’s Erskine Fellowship at the University of
 Canterbury in Christchurch, New Zealand and 2020-2021 Academic Visitorship at the University of
 Cambridge; and Morano-Foadi’s Research Associateship at the International Migration Institute,
 University of Oxford. Staff are regular contributors at conferences, and have frequently been invited as
 keynote speakers, for instance: Edge “An Anglo-American perspective on religion and the workplace”,
 Observatoire Social International, Paris, October 2015.

 The School makes a contribution to the sustainability of the discipline through engaging in the activities
 of learned societies such as the SLS with Vickers serving as Hon. Treasurer, Morano-Foadi (and
 previously Cooper) as subject section convenors, and Bakalis as author of the SLS response to the
 Law Commission on their consultation on hate crime. Other members of the school are active
 participants in the SLSA. Edge, Vickers, and Bakalis are members of the AHRC Peer Review College;
 and Morano-Foadi of the ESRC PRC. Staff have also been engaged as expert reviewers of funding
 bids such as Edge for the Nuffield Trust, and European Union MSCA Fellowships; Morano-Foadi for
 the European Science Foundation and British Academy; and Shipman, as reviewer for the
 Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research.

 In addition, the Law School has contributed to the development of the next generation of researchers
 by hosting, annually since 2010, the Law and Religion Scholars Network annual PhD student
 conference. This provides PhD students the opportunity to meet, present papers and receive
 feedback on their work from established scholars. In addition, the Faculty Doctoral Training
 programme, and our individualised support for PhD students to develop essential skills such as
 publication and teaching, as well as our creation of a nurturing environment for ECRs, are all
 evidence of our commitment to developing future academics.




                                                                                                   Page 13
