Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Nottingham

 Unit of Assessment: Sub-Panel 20: Social Work and Social Policy

    1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

                                              Overview

  Unit of Assessment 20 (Social Work and Social Policy) at the University of Nottingham has
  grown from 37 to 47 academic staff members since REF2014 achieving greater diversity and
  representation (see section 2). It primarily includes staff from the School of Sociology and Social
  Policy alongside colleagues working in criminology and health and social policy fields. The Unit
  conducts theoretically informed and applied disciplinary and interdisciplinary research in social
  work, sociology, criminology, social and public policy. Our research is unified by a common
  concern with social justice. This includes addressing the realities of marginalised groups, giving
  witness to experiences of everyday life and identifying issues of recognition and representation.
  Promoting equality and diversity locally, nationally and internationally is at the core of our
  mission. Knowledge derived from our research directly impacts:

     •   Policy makers (including local, regional, national governments and NGOs) by enabling
         better-informed decision-making and the implementation of more effective policies and
         legislation, to the benefit of society;
     •   Practitioners and service providers (including those in health, social work, social care,
         and criminal justice) by influencing perspectives, decision-making and practices,
         including planning, delivery and evaluation of services to the benefit of service users,
         carers and families;
     •   Wider publics in challenging and confronting myths and prejudices about some of the
         most disadvantaged/excluded people in society and providing alternative ways of
         understanding and responding to their realities, to the benefit of society overall.


                                       Structure of the Unit

 Research activities are organised under five research clusters: 1) Wellbeing, Health and Social
 Care; 2) Public and Social Policy; 3) Identities, Citizenship, Equalities and Migration; 4) Science
 and Society; and 5) a new cluster in Criminal Justice Research. Since REF 2014 these research
 clusters have been re-aligned with the University’s Research Vision 2020 to facilitate more
 effective working with new Global Challenges as well as enabling leadership of emerging
 collaborations across Schools and Faculties (the University’s organisational units) through large
 scale interdisciplinary research funding. They have also been strengthened and developed to
 reflect changes in personnel and our strategic expansion into the field of criminology.

 The five clusters have research leads selected among their members and group together
 academic and research staff, as well as postgraduate researchers, thus providing an inclusive
 forum for collaboration. This has led to successful grant capture and outputs involving staff at all
 career stages (see section 2). Leads are responsible for encouraging research bids and initial
 support including the appointment of ‘bid mentors’. Leads are also represented on the Research
 and Knowledge Exchange (RKE) Committee, the body tasked to oversee UoA’s research strategy
 (see below). Each colleague has a primary membership in one research cluster, but we
 encourage overlapping membership and cross-cutting work. Three clusters have produced impact
 case studies for REF2021 and two are developing case-studies for the next cycle, thus
 demonstrating the vitality and sustainability of our research. All clusters are represented evenly
 in our output selection.




                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    1.   Wellbeing, Health and Social Care

 This cluster is a wide-ranging interdisciplinary grouping which aims to understand the social policy
 issues surrounding social care, health, the processes of caring and the nature and impact of social
 interventions. It undertakes innovative theoretical and empirical research, informing social
 interventions and care practices. The cluster has strong links with the Centre for Social Work
 and the Ann Craft Trust. Within UoN it collaborates with the Institute of Mental Health (IMH)
 and the Children and Childhood Network. The centre has sustained relationships with
 Nottinghamshire, Derbyshire and Lincolnshire Collaboration for Leadership in Applied
 Health Research and Care (CLAHRC) and the D2N2 Social Work Teaching Partnership. It
 has a strong partnership with Nottinghamshire Healthcare NHS Trust, the local provider of
 mental health services with whom we have a number of jointly-funded ESRC PhD studentships.
 The cluster contributes to one of our impact case studies:

    •    Clawson and Fyson’s research on forced marriage of people with learning disabilities has
         influenced policy through its impact on practice guidelines and improved frontline practice.
         It has led to new statutory guidance involving changes to data collection on forced
         marriage. It has also made a substantial contribution to raising public awareness of forced
         marriage of people with learning disabilities.


         2. Public and Social Policy

 The cluster brings together academics, researchers and postgraduate students from a range of
 disciplines, who share an interest in the policy dimension of some of the major social issues faced
 by contemporary societies. With a focus on global social justice, the cluster investigates a number
 of social and public policy developments at local, regional, national and transnational level. These
 include: welfare reform; public sector governance and policy networks; the role of Third Sector
 organisations in delivering public services; labour market inequalities; migration and refugee
 policies; the impact of Brexit on UK social policy; urban environments and sustainability. The
 cluster’s distinctive strengths lie in the integration of theory, research design and stakeholder
 engagement. Within UoN the cluster collaborates with the Institute for Policy and Engagement
 and Governance, the Public Policy Interdisciplinary Group, and the Rights, Justice and
 Global Challenges Interdisciplinary Group. Members of the cluster are also part of several
 international networks and have ongoing collaborations with other academic institutions,
 particularly across Europe and East-Asia. The cluster contributed one impact case study:

    •    Roberts’ research for the European Commission (EC) has directly contributed to the
         reform of regulations on free movement of workers and improved the quality of governance
         of labour market fluidity across EU Member States through the establishment of the
         European Labour Authority in 2019. This work also informed Brexit negotiations from both
         EU and UK perspectives.


         3. Identities, Citizenship, Equalities and Migration

 The cluster is organised around identities, citizenship and civic stratification. It encompasses
 innovative conceptual and methodological approaches as well as substantive comparative and
 cross-cultural research, including work on Europe, Africa and Asia. Theoretical issues addressed
 include questions of colonialism and postcolonialism, nationalism, multiculturalism, the commons
 and cosmopolitanism. Members conduct research into moral economies of welfare and work;
 gender, employment and the temporal reorganisation of work; forced and child labour and
 increased precarity. Issues of human rights, migration and refugee status are addressed in the
 context of changing definitions of citizenship and membership. Intersections of age, sexuality,
 disability, gender, ethnicity and religion are researched across the different themes, especially in
 relation to the construction of identities and modes of inclusion and exclusion. The cluster

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaborates with the University Rights, Justice and Global Challenges Interdisciplinary
 Group and the Rights Lab. Members of the cluster are also part of several international networks,
 (e.g. IMISCOE, the European Network on International Migration, Integration and Social
 Cohesion). It contributes two impact case studies:

    •   Gardner’s research on building communities which are resilient to modern slavery
        influenced local and national public policy and practice. These approaches were taken up
        by the Home Office and embedded within new statutory guidance issued under Section
        49 of the Modern Slavery Act.
    •   Holmwood was an expert witness for the defence in professional misconduct cases
        involving senior teachers accused of the Islamification of schools in Birmingham, where
        his report was at the core of the defence case. Holmwood’s research influenced a major
        theatre play based on the affair. His work has been cited by Muslim charities, such as
        MEND, and by Index on Censorship to influence their approach to Prevent.



        4. Science and Society

 The cluster is one of the foremost interdisciplinary groupings for research excellence in the field
 of Science and Technology Studies. It has an outstanding track record of externally funded
 innovative research and produces transdisciplinary and impactful research on problems located
 at the intersection of scientific research, technological innovation and the social and cultural
 world. Topics include: climate change; renewable energy; epigenetics; green chemistry; animal
 research; internet of things and digital societies; biomedicine and healthcare practice;
 sustainable cities, public participation in science and technology and citizen science. Lead
 Papadopoulos is co-director of the EPSRC-funded development: ‘RRI-Responsible Research
 and Innovation’. He is also the director of EcoSocieties: Ecological Transitions in Diverse
 Societies, a newly established Interdisciplinary Research Cluster at UoN. ISS is one of the key
 organisers of STS4C/STS four cities consortium integrating research from the Universities of
 Nottingham, York, Sheffield and Leeds. The cluster is currently developing a number of potential
 impact case studies for the next REF cycle. These include Hobson-West’s: ‘Animal Research
 Governance’ funded by an ESRC Impact Accelerator Award; and Goulden’s work on smart
 home appliance regulation and policy.


        5. Criminal Justice

 Criminology was established as a subject area in UoN in 2014 through the introduction of degree
 programmes in the SSSP. Reflecting staff recruitment, the Criminal Justice Research Centre
 (CJRC), originally located in the School of Law, became an interdisciplinary research centre
 under the co-leadership of the School of Law and SSSP in 2016. This development was led at a
 strategic level in order to support interdisciplinary research and public engagement. Henley
 serves as a co-director of the Centre. The CJRC provides a forum for interdisciplinary research
 in law, sociology and criminology, and also draws on a wider membership from across the
 university in forensic psychology, philosophy, education and health. UoA staff researching in
 these areas are members of the CJRC (Browne, Carr, Chou, Clamp, Dixon, Heydon, Jordan,
 Lumsden, Tomczak). Research in the centre focuses on criminal justice systems and
 processes; the impacts of system contact; penal practices and philosophies; alternatives to
 punishment and the role of citizens and non-state actors in criminal justice. The CJRC
 collaborates with the Institute for Policy and Engagement, the Human Rights Law Centre,
 the Centre for Forensic and Family Psychology and the Institute for Mental Health. As a
 newly established centre, CJRC is not contributing to an impact case study in the current cycle.
 However, an emerging case study is already evident through the work of Tomczak, an ECR who
 has received the Nottingham Impact Accelerator Knowledge Exchange Prize 2019 for work
 on Reducing Prison Suicide.


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Strategic development in research is provided through the Director of Research and Knowledge
  Exchange (DoRKE) and the Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee, with direct
  links to the School’s Executive Group. The RKE Committee led by the DoRKE, meets six times
  a year. The Committee comprises of: Research Cluster Leads, Ethics and Integrity Officer, PGR
  Lead, REF Team, Research Development Manager, School Operations Manager, and PGR
  Representative. Four DoRKEs have served in this REF Cycle (two male and two female). The
  Committee is currently composed of four professors, four associate professors, two assistant
  professors, two administrative staff and one PGR, of these 8 are female, 5 are male. The
  Committee provides leadership and management for strategic research objectives and their
  delivery, including approving funds from Faculty and School for research support and study
  leave applications.

  Researchers receive administrative support from the Faculty level Centre for Advanced
  Studies (CAS) which manages the grant application process, and from the school based Senior
  Research Administrator, and the School Operations Manager. Research Clusters play a large
  part in supporting and mentoring researchers. Support is facilitated through: workload allocation;
  study leave; funding for conferences and networking; peer review of papers and grant proposals;
  Research Away Days; the discussion of personal research plans with the DoRKE; and through
  staff mentoring during the grant application process.

  Our Research Ethics and Integrity Committee (REIC) ensures all research we conduct meets
  the highest standards. REIC is chaired by the Ethics and Integrity Officer (EIO), who is also the
  Faculty EIO, and comprises c. 10 academic reviewers (recruited from across the UoA and
  different career levels). The committee meets once a semester and the EIO reports regularly to
  the RKE Committee. The EIO conducts regular training on research ethics for staff and students.

  A REF Coordinator, Impact Coordinator, and Impact Officer were appointed to support the Unit’s
  research impact activities for REF2021 and beyond. This team works with academics at all
  career stages to raise awareness, support skill development, develop impact plans, and
  document achieved research impacts. They collaborate most closely with the REF impact case
  study authors and at Faculty/University level to produce the School’s portfolio of REF2021 case
  studies. The REF/impact staff meet regularly with the DoRKE through the REF Committee to
  deliver, monitor and update the School’s REF/impact strategy and activities.

  Achievement of Strategic Aims for Research and Impact during the Assessment Period

  At the time of REF 2014, in addition to continued support and development of existing research
  clusters, our core objectives were:

         •     O1: Retaining, developing and recruiting high quality research-active staff.
         •     O2: Increasing and diversifying grant capture by supporting both small and large
               scale, individual and collaborative research bids.
         •     O3: Delivering high quality outputs through more effective mentoring and peer
               review and widespread dissemination.
         •     O4: Embedding the impact agenda within our research activities.
         •     O5: Creating a vibrant environment for doctoral students and maximising funding
               opportunities to attract high quality applicants.

 In addition to achieving these objectives (see below) we have engaged with three additional
 objectives:

     •       O6: Engaging proactively with existing ‘ecosystems’, shaping new agendas and building
             networks and, thus, securing global research esteem.
     •       O7: Promoting ethical and responsible research.
     •       O8: Making progress towards an open research environment.



                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 O1: Recruiting, developing and retaining high quality research-active staff.

 The school offers an inclusive environment where we value and nurture the contribution of all our
 staff. We support the transition from teaching only to R&T contracts (e.g. Purser and Genova
 have achieved this). We have a similar approach to colleagues appointed to research contracts
 and have been able to offer full time R&T contracts to researchers (e.g. Madziva, Warwick,
 Okyere, Clawson, all of whom started with us as PhD students). The school is strongly committed
 to supporting new generations of social policy, sociology, social work, STS and criminology
 scholars, PGRs and early career researchers. We have successfully attracted high calibre ERC
 scholars through programmes such as the Nottingham Research Fellowships (NRF) (see
 Institutional Statement, 3.2) (Gardner, Goulden and Tomczak) and the Leverhulme Early Career
 Fellowship (Ghelfi). The school has also succeeded in recruiting leading experts in their field such
 as Papadopoulous in STS, and high calibre mid-career scholars in social policy (e.g. Chau and
 D’Angelo) and criminology (e.g. Carr and Lumsden). Staff have also benefitted from career
 development opportunities within the university including the Research Leaders Programme (e.g.
 Hobson-West).


 O2: Increasing and diversifying grant capture by supporting both small and large scale,
 individual and collaborative research bids.

 We have both increased (by 16%) and diversified our grant capture. UoA members across career
 levels have been successful in securing a diverse range of funding. These include large
 collaborative grants obtained by professorial level academics such as Nerlich and Holmwood
 through the Leverhulme programme: Making Science Public and Grundmann: Sustaining Urban
 Habitats; and individual grants and Fellowships (Papadopolous) from the Newton/AHRC and
 Leverhulme; Schneider from the NIHR and the Alzheimer Society and Pilnick through the BA
 Senior Research Fellowship. Mid-career staff have secured individual grants from the Welcome
 Trust (Hobson-West); the ESRC and the NIHR (Clawson); the MRC/AHRC (Bott); and individual
 fellowships from Leverhulme (Stevenson) and BA Mid-Career Fellowships (Bott). Early career
 staff have been successful in obtaining funds from the EPSRC (Goulden); the ESRC and British
 Academy (Madziva); NIHR and the Society for Health and Illness (Jordan). They have also
 secured Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships (Ghelfi); ESRC new investigator grants (Wikoff)
 and Nottingham Research Fellowships (Gardner, Goulden and Tomczak).


 O3: Delivering high quality outputs through more effective mentoring, peer review, and
 widespread dissemination.

 The 47 researchers in the UoA published 493 outputs: 20 books, 385 journal articles and 68 book
 chapters in this REF period. An internal output review process based on REF2021 criteria has
 been implemented. This peer review process facilitates learning and development and supports
 the delivery of high-quality outputs based on criteria of originality, rigour and significance. The
 RKE committee has directed seed-corn funds to enable staff to collect data for high quality
 publications. Support for conference attendance has increased during the REF cycle to stimulate
 dissemination. Research clusters have provided mentoring, opportunities to present work-in-
 progress and peer review.

 Staff have published in leading and high-impact international journals in the fields of social policy,
 social work, sociology, criminology and STS (e.g: British Journal of Social Work, Cultural
 Sociology, Ethnic and Racial Studies, Global Networks, Social Networks, Sociology, Sociology of
 Health and Illness, Urban Studies, Work, Employment and Society, Theoretical Criminology).
 Highly cited articles include: Goulden (2014) Smart grids, smart users? The role of the user in
 demand side management (Google scholar 301; Grundmann (2017) The problem of expertise in
 knowledge societies (Google scholar 99; D’Angelo (2018) Changing times: Migrants’ social
 network analysis and the challenges of longitudinal research (Google Scholar 75; Zontini (2015)
 Growing old in a transnational social field: belonging, mobility and identity among Italian migrants

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Google scholar 65). Highly impactful articles include: Holmwood (2018) Colonialism,
 postcolonialism and the liberal welfare state (Altmetrics 195); Warwick (2019). “Isn't it funny the
 children that are further away we don't think about as much?”: using GPS to explore the mobilities
 and geographies of social work and child protection practice (Altmetrics 92); Stevenson (2017).
 E.P. Thompson and cultural sociology: questions of poetics, capitalism and the commons
 (Altmetrics 51); Tomczak (2016) The penal voluntary sector (Altmetrics 52).
 UoA members have received prizes and recognition for high quality publications. 2018 SAGE
 Cultural Sociology Prize (Stevenson); Sociology Super Author 2013 Nominee (Zontini); 2017
 Institute of Mental Health paper of the year (Pilnick); Centre for Crime and Justice Studies and
 British Society of Criminology Essay Prize 2014 (Henley); Norm Smith Publication in Social Work
 Research Award (Laird).


 O4: Embedding the impact agenda within our research activities.


 The School’s research impact strategy involves increasing staff awareness, knowledge, skills and
 resources for creating impact. All staff and PGRs have access to impact-related training organised
 by the School, Researcher Academy and the Central REF team. The school has appointed an
 Impact Officer who is available for one-to-one training and support. A senior academic
 (Schneider) coordinates the impact activities of the UoA. The UoA has been awarded £144,000
 (ESRC IAA and other funding) for over 20 research impact projects including: improving
 healthcare practices and models for elderly populations and preventing gender-based violence
 and human trafficking. Seven female researchers (Fyson, Harris, Madziva, Warwick, Clawson,
 Hobson-West and Gardner) have participated in the year-long Impact Leaders Programme, in
 partnerships with external stakeholders. Hobson-West won the ESRC Impact Accelerator
 Award (2016/2017), and Tomczak won the Nottingham Impact Accelerator Knowledge
 Exchange Prize (2019) and the British Academy Rising Star Engagement Award (2018).

 In our efforts to promote social justice both locally and internationally, we have strengthened our
 knowledge exchange through close partnerships with stakeholders, including working together
 with service users (e.g. Schneider’s work with dementia carers); with government departments
 (e.g. Clawson and Fyson’s work with the Home Office and Foreign and Commonwealth Office
 Forced Marriage Unit); international organisations (e.g. Robert’s work with the European
 Commission); national charities (e.g. Henley’s work with Unlock), third sector organisations and
 others including dissemination to wider publics (e.g. Holmwood’s work with Lung Theatre).

 All research clusters were encouraged to develop impact case studies. Five were selected for
 support based on their quality and development stage. Four were selected by the UoA’s REF
 Team, following a peer review process which assessed the quality and extent of impact. Work
 continues in developing case studies for future cycles.


 O5: Creating a vibrant environment for doctoral students and maximising funding
 opportunities to attract high quality applicants

 We attract high quality doctoral students across our research clusters. In the REF period we
 awarded 218 research degrees (19.3% funded by research councils, including the ERSC, EPSRC,
 AHRC and NERC. We have secured three ESRC Collaborative Studentship awards: with the
 Nottingham University Hospital Trust; the national charity Unlock and the RSPCA.


 O6: Engage proactively with existing ‘ecosystems’, shape new agendas and build networks

 A major University-wide initiative during this REF period has been the establishment of Global
 Research Themes, Beacons of Excellence and Interdisciplinary Research Clusters [see
 Institutional Statement, 2.1(a)]. UoA members have been active in interdisciplinary university

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 initiatives: Governance and Public Policy (GaPP); Sustainable and Resilient Cities; Beacons of
 Excellence: The Rights Lab; Rights and Justice Priority Area; Science, Technology & Society
 Priority Group and the Animal Research Nexus. The UoA also has important research
 collaborations with the School of Medicine, the Institute for Mental Health, the Schools of Law,
 Education, Veterinary Medicine, Science and Biosciences. The UoA leads two Interdisciplinary
 Research Clusters: IRC EcoSocieties (Papadopulos) and IRC Governance and Public Policy
 (Roberts) and is involved in externally-funded interdisciplinary research. It secured funding for
 two Leverhulme Trust Programmes: ‘Making Science Public’ (2010-2016) and ‘Sustaining Urban
 Habitats’ (2015-2020). The latter involves collaboration with: Geography, Physics, Computer
 Science, Mathematics and Engineering. Papadopulos leads the EPSRC funded Responsible
 Research and Innovation (RRI) initiative and is also involved in large projects funded by the
 BBSRC (on Sustainable Routes to Platform Chemicals) and the EPSRC (on Sustainable
 Chemistry). Researchers in the UoA are embedded in research networks globally. They present
 at international conferences, publish in and edit journals with an international readership (see
 section 4 for evidence of the UoA global research esteem).


 O7: Promoting ethical and responsible research

 The UoA encompasses a substantial range of research, including on sensitive topics and with
 vulnerable populations. The School’s Research Ethics and Integrity Committee (REIC) has
 developed considerable expertise and has produced guidance for students and staff, which has
 informed wider university approaches, including guidance on digitally based research and
 informed consent. The REIC provides regular training addressing new developments (e.g GDPR
 regulations). The UoA is at the forefront in promoting ethical and responsible research within the
 University and beyond through the Responsible Research and Innovation (RRI) work initiated
 by the Science and Society cluster. Examples include: Report on Responsible Research and
 Innovation: Responding to the New Research Agenda (2014); the Leverhulme funded
 programme Making Science Public (2012-18) and the EcoSocieties Interdisciplinary Research
 Cluster of which RRI is a cross-cutting theme. The UoA has developed a training course
 on Responsible Research & Innovation in collaboration with the Researcher Academy and
 delivered training to the Horizon Doctoral Training Programme (DTP) and the Energy DTP
 (Mohr). Through Hobson-West’s Wellcome Trust funded work on animal research, the unit has
 also achieved a national impact on ethics, e.g. via a report distributed to all UK universities using
 animal models, and via ESRC IAA funded public engagement activities.


 O8: Making progress towards an open research environment

 The UoA is fostering an open research environment and complies with the UoN Open Access
 Policy through the deposition of research outputs in open access form in the institutional
 repository (RIS). Applications for research funding include data management plans and
 recipients of Research Council funding adhere to open data requirements. UoA members have
 been at the forefront of national and international debates on open research. Holmwood has
 been a member of the HEFCE Working Party Addressing Open Access Monograph Publishing
 as well as co-founding a monthly open access magazine of social research, policy and analysis
 and social criticism, Discover Society. Dauncey has promoted open access through her role as
 co-editor of the Journal of the British Association for Chinese Studies. The UoA produces a
 range of open access non-academic outputs, ranging from technical and policy reports, practice
 guidelines, bulletins, blogs, magazine articles, films, theatre plays and toolkits, TV and radio
 programmes. Examples include the work featured in the Impact Case Studies of Clawson and
 Fyson (media engagement re. forced marriage for people with learning disabilities); Roberts
 (policy reports for the European Commission); Holmwood (theatre production on the Trojan
 Horse Affair) and Gardner (policy toolkits to address modern slavery).




                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                       Future Strategic Aims

 Our UoA has expanded in this REF cycle from 37 staff in in 2014 to 47 members in this return.
 Key developments include the broadening of our disciplinary range to include criminology; the
 expansion of our research funding portfolio and associated projects and research staff; and
 investment and appointments in key areas, such as STS and the successful recruitment and
 retention of Nottingham Research Fellows. Our future strategic aims include work to consolidate
 on success to date as well as the following:

    1. Sustain and develop a vibrant and nurturing research culture: This will be achieved
         by continued investment in staff development and research support including: research
         time allocation; study-leave, internally funded research opportunities, peer-mentoring and
         access to wider faculty and university supports. This will involve tailored training and
         opportunities for staff at all career stages. We will specifically engage with the
         Researcher Academy to develop an action plan for delivery of: The Concordat to Support
         the Career Development of Researchers and implement the Athena Swan Award Action
         Plan.
    2.   Consolidate and expand the global esteem of our cutting-edge research on
         contemporary social issues: This includes funded research exploring the social
         dimensions of the Covid-19 pandemic (e.g. Madziva, Gardner). Other examples include
         work on Trustworthy Autonomous Systems (Goulden), controversies in human and animal
         vaccination (Hobson-West) the impact of Brexit on migrant workers (D’Angelo, Genova,
         Roberts, Zontini) and the regulation of prisons (Tomczak)
    3.   Enhance the quality of our research outputs and increase our funding
         portfolio: This will be done through continued investment in staff support, including
         targeted funding supporting the development of high-quality outputs. We will continue to
         target a diverse range of funders (UKRI, charity and international funders), and expand
         our bid-mentoring process. This will be facilitated by Research Clusters and targeted
         administrative support to cost research bids and manage research awards.
    4.   Enhance our impact and knowledge exchange activities: We will expand the reach
         and influence of our research through enhancing opportunities for knowledge
         mobilisation with external partners including national and international policymakers and
         the third sector. We will work to ensure that impact and knowledge exchange activities
         are built into the lifecycle of all projects, and increase strategic utilisation of Knowledge
         Exchange development funds and opportunities (such as the ESRC IAA scheme). We
         will support the development of staff secondments and increase engagement with policy
         makers with the support of the Institute for Policy and Engagement.
    5.   Embrace Plan-S: This will be done in partnership with the University and using the
         expertise of members of staff who are currently on editorial boards of journals where these
         preparations are on-going.

 Our work to achieve these aims will be informed by principles of equity and developing the
 potential of all staff. We will work to mitigate risks including the impacts of COVID-19 by
 continued diversification of our funding base and by alignment with wider university plans.


 2. People

                             Staffing strategy and staff development

 The UoA is a diverse international unit with a majority of female members (5 members are BAME
 and no member of staff has reported a disability) (see Table 1). One of its strategic aims is to
 recruit, develop and retain high quality research-active staff (O1). The disciplinary mix of the UoA
 has significantly changed since REF2014 with the introduction of a successful new Criminology
 programme. This has brought new research opportunities including the Criminal Justice Research
 Centre with the School of Law. The UoA has also taken the opportunity to rebalance its staff grade

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 profile following the departures of senior professorial staff. The UoA is currently growing with
 increasing numbers of criminology colleagues (8 appointments since REF 2014). The UoA has
 also appointed a new Professor in Science and Society who leads the Science and Society cluster
 and two colleagues in the social policy team, one of whom now leads the International Public and
 Social Policy cluster. It has been successful in recruiting new outstanding early career researchers
 (e.g. through the Nottingham Research Fellowships) who are on a trajectory to becoming
 permanent members of staff thus enhancing the sustainability of the Unit.


 Table 1: Staff by Role, Gender and Ethnicity REF 2021

          Role              F       M       BAME     Total

  Assistant Professor       11          5       2        15
                                                2
  Associate Professor       11          5                16
                                                1
  Professor                  3          8                12
                                                 -
  Researcher                 2          2                    4

  Total                     27      20          5        47

 Table 2: Staff by Role and Gender REF2014

 Role                           F       M    Total
 Assistant Professor            6       1       5
 Associate Professor            6       7      12
 Professor                      5       9      14
 Researcher                     1       2       3

 Total                      18      19         37

 The UoA is committed to consolidating and developing its research culture and the staffing
 strategy is focused on this ambition by: a study leave rota that is available to all, mentoring
 through the research clusters where staff can discuss funding applications and draft publications
 and where informal networks of support and collaboration are also embedded. The UoA is
 steadfast in its commitment to fostering a research environment in which all staff can contribute
 to the research culture and where all members of the UoA can fulfil their full potential. All R&T
 staff have a standard allocation of 33% research time. The UoA supports staff employed at
 Level 4 on a Teaching and Learning contract to develop their research and publications to
 facilitate a shift to a Research and Teaching contract (time is allocated for research activities). In
 this REF cycle two staff members (Purser and Genova) made this transition. It also supports
 the principles embedded in The Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
 (see Institutional Statement 3.1). We have raised awareness of the Concordat and have
 promoted an inclusive and positive research culture through encouraging and supporting all staff
 to engage in funding opportunities. We have sought to effectively manage researcher workloads
 by appropriately costing bids to ensure sufficient time allocation. Research staff development is
 included as part of funding bids. Colleagues initially appointed as researchers have obtained
 permanent R&T contracts in the UoA and elsewhere (e.g. Madziva and Warwick).

 Personal Research Plans (PRPs) are a vital aspect of staff development. The DoRKE meets
 individually with staff to discuss their PRPs, which focus on research ambitions both in the medium
 and long term. The PRP is separate from formal appraisal processes and is intended to provide a
 space that concentrates solely on research planning and development. The DoRKE and the
 Director of Staff Development assess the resources required to extend the range of excellent
 research that is being undertaken in the UoA. In addition to this, each staff member meets
                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 biannually with their appraiser to discuss achievement, career development, well-being and to set
 future objectives.

 Members also benefit from the new ‘Research Grant Support Framework’ (RGSF), developed in
 2019 following wide-ranging consultation with academic colleagues. This is a dedicated resource
 that closely aligns with the Centre for Advanced Studies (CAS), to ensure enhanced external
 support for bid development and costings. A research mentoring system facilitated by research
 clusters provides support, examples of success include: Bott’s Leverhulme mid-career
 fellowship exploring orphanage tourism in Nepal; Madziva’s ESRC project addressing human
 trafficking in Zimbabwe and Wikoff’s ESRC New Investigator award exploring financial
 capability and indebtedness.

 The School holds regular Research Away Days where staff have the opportunity to discuss
 research with colleagues. The UoA encourages early career researchers to participate in funding
 bids as co-investigators. Data analysis shows that during this REF cycle 62% of grant
 applications were made by females and 38% by males. 25.4% of the bids by female staff were
 successful, compared to 24.7% of those by males. To recognise and reward research 5% of any
 research margin generated is added to personal research accounts. The UoA also recognises
 and rewards success through promotions. There were 21 promotion applications during the REF
 cycle, 16 (76%) from females, 12 were successful.


              Support mechanisms, training and supervision of PGR students

 The University is a core member of the Midlands Graduate School (MGS), one of 14 ESRC
 Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTPs). As well as Nottingham-based training in core (ESRC
 specified) and advanced research methods offered through the DTP, students have access to
 training provided at partner institutions (Warwick, Birmingham, Leicester, Loughborough and
 Aston). The UoA offers DTP pathways in Social Policy, Social Work and Sociology (including
 Science and Technology Studies). As part of the DTP’s aim to improve the wider quality of
 research training at PhD level, all students in the UoA, however funded, can access DTP training.
 Training also incorporates wider skills development in areas such as: research impact and career
 planning. Doctoral Event Grants are awarded to student-led initiatives such as the ENQUIRE
 conference which run annually within the UoA. Since 2018, Postdoctoral Fellowships have been
 funded by the ESRC through the DTP, with the UoA offering the same subject pathways as are
 available for PhD study. The DTP is supported by a wider, cross-University Researcher Academy.
 Members of the UoA are actively involved in the ESRC DTP, making a significant contribution to
 its management and taught-course programmes. Pilnick was Director of Training (2011-15),
 Director of the ESRC DTC (2015-19) and Deputy Director of the Midlands Graduate School
 DTP (2016-19). She also sits on the ESRC Future Leaders Awards Panel. Holmwood and
 Zontini have convened core DTP modules (Philosophy of the Social Sciences and Foundations
 in Qualitative Methods). Zontini and Holmwood have also been members of the DTC Training
 Board. Kramer, Stevenson and Bott have offered DTP advanced modules.

 During the REF cycle the UoA has supervised 218 students to completion (170 FTE). 42 received
 funding from Research Councils (see Table 2 below).




                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Table 3: PhDs by Year Awarded; Gender; FTE splits; BAME status; Funding
               Gender – FTE split                              BAME      Research
                                                                         Council
                                                                         funded
  Year         Female      Male       Other        Total
  awarded
  2013/14      18.35       9.3                     27.65       32.46%    6
  2014/15      29.75       3.6                     33.35       35.99%    5
  2015/16      19.3        7.8                     27.10       35.62%    5
  2016/17      20.5        2.07                    22.57       29.16%    9
  2017/18      15.1        6.2                     21.30       28.62%    5
  2018/19      13.87       4          0.5          18.37       27.51%    5
  2019/20      15.58       5                       20.58       27.38%    7
  Total        132.45      37.97      0.5          170.92                42

  Averages      77.49%         22.22%       0.29%        24.42          30.96%      6

 PGR recruitment is handled centrally by the university with suitable proposals circulated openly
 within the UoA for consideration by potential supervisors. Members of the UoA also work with
 promising UG and PGT students to support their PhD applications.

 A tailored research training programme is agreed with each PGR, including at least 20 credits of
 research methods modules. Each PGR is allocated two supervisors, and formal academic
 supervision takes place a minimum of 10 times per year (see Institutional Statement, 3.3).
 Students participate in regular research seminars and in a variety of social events. The Director
 of Doctoral Studies (DoDS) (Yip), a senior academic staff member, also provides academic and
 pastoral support. Well-established procedures overseen by the DoDS are in place to monitor
 students’ progress.

 The PGR community is an integral part of the UoA. Students are strongly encouraged to be a
 member of at least one research cluster and to participate in seminars, workshops and access a
 wide range of academics and networks. The DoDS and the PGRs meet formally once a week for
 a seminar series at which they present and discuss their research and future career development.
 PGRs also receive financial support (£400 p.a.) to present at conferences, and support their
 studies (e.g. fieldwork equipment, transcription). PGRs are encouraged to publish, the UoA
 organises writing skills workshops and sponsors two annual PGR publications prizes for the
 best papers published in peer-reviewed journals. The UoA also match-funds any travel prizes
 awarded by the central university. The UoA has established a confidential feedback system for
 PGRs, managed by an independent party to provide us with an in-depth picture about the quality
 of training provision.

 PGR students in the UoA founded and continue to manage the journal ENQUIRE (Electronic
 Nottingham Quarterly for Ideas, Research and Evaluation) and organise its annual conference
 and blog. Running the journal and organising the conference promotes development of key
 transferable skills. In this REF period, seven editions of ENQUIRE have been published online
 (open access), and four international conferences have been organised. PGR students have
 won prizes, published in leading academic journals and begun academic careers in leading
 universities both nationally and internationally. Four former students have secured permanent jobs
 in our UoA (Genova, Jordan, Madziva and Warwick) and elsewhere in the University
 (Creswick). A current student (McGlacken) won the Vonne Lund prize for best PhD student paper
 at the 5th Congress of the European Society for Agricultural and Food Ethics.




                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                  How the unit supports and promotes Equality and Diversity

 EDI is at the core of our research mission and features prominently in our research publications.
 We lead on international debates on gender equalities (Chau, Kramer, Purser), ethnic diversity
 (Genova), disability (Clawson, Dauncey, Fyson), migration status (D’Angelo, Madziva,
 Roberts, Zontini), class (Stevenson) sexualities (Yip); age (Chau, Schneider, Taneva,
 Zontini); religion (Holmwood, Pacey, Yip); decoloniality (Dixon, Holmwood, Treacher-
 Kabesh).

 We also have robust structures within the UoA. The Director of Staff Development is a member of
 both the School and Faculty’s EDI Committee and attends University EDI meetings. The Unit’s
 EDI Committee is inclusive of staff at all levels. It currently has 13 members (3 males and 10
 female). It organises regular events that are open to staff, students and the general public.
 Examples include three events organised in 2019 to coincide with Black History/Black Lives
 Matter Month: the screening and discussion of the film I Am Not Your Negro; the seminar
 Windrush: The Past in the Present presented by Williams; and an event on De-colonising the
 Curriculum. Holmwood collaborates with Muslim Engagement and Development (MEND)
 addressing issues of Islamophobia. The UoA fully participates in the University Institutional Staff
 Equality and Diversity Networks. A former PhD student (Creswick) is now EDI-coordinator in
 the Planning, Performance and Strategic Change Department of the University. An Athena SWAN
 application was submitted in Spring 2020 and a Bronze Award was awarded September 2020.

 EDI informs all our practices. In recruitment the Athena Swan logo is included on job descriptions
 with inclusive imagery to encourage diversity of applicants. We mandate advertisement of a part-
 time option for all full-time posts and requires that all panel members attend training on
 unconscious bias. We also have a robust induction process where new starters have a one-to-
 one induction from a member of the administrative team as well as meetings with members of the
 School Executive Group (SEG). This is supported by a dedicated induction page which links to
 important information and required training, including mandatory training on staff and student
 equality issues. There is a strong support element to induction, with a dedicated Coffee Morning
 in the new starter’s first week to welcome them to the School. New starters meet with their
 appraiser to set initial objectives and discuss mentoring opportunities.

 The UoA supports flexible and part-time working. The 2019 proportion of part-time staff is broadly
 equivalent by gender (males 23%; females 29%). In the REF cycle there were 11 requests from
 R&T staff to reduce their hours (8 female, 2 male), all were accepted. Researchers on fixed-term
 contracts are supported to move to permanent posts within the UoA and beyond. Examples are
 researchers from the ‘Making Science Public’ programme who went on to permanent R&T jobs in
 Nottingham (Madziva), Sheffield (Pearce) and Exeter (Hartley). There have been three periods
 of maternity leave from two members of staff (one RT, one RO, both full-time prior to leave). The
 UoA approaches are underpinned by the University's maternity/adoption policy with HR support.
 The fundamental premise is flexibility in supporting staff before, during and after their maternity
 leave. Similar support is offered to staff returning from sick leave. Support is also offered to staff
 and PGRs with caring responsibilities to attend conferences, through the provision of funded
 childcare provision at events and conferences organised by research clusters.

 There were 21 promotion applications during the REF cycle, 16 (76%) from females, 12 were
 successful (2 to level 5; 7 to level 6 and 3 to level 7). Although there have been no applications
 from part-time staff, a flexible working request from a female colleague to go part-time following
 L6 promotion was agreed. Recent successful promotions included: female to L6 during maternity
 leave, female to L7 and promotions for L4 Teaching Only colleagues, both females, one to L5
 TO and one to L5 RT.

 To address concerns about unconscious gender bias in the allocation of administrative roles, the
 School now advertises such roles so that all academics can express a preference for arising
 vacancies. Changes have been made to the information gathered as part of the annual
 performance review process to recognise ‘good citizenship’ within the School. This is expected to

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 highlight previously hidden contributions to the School. For example, this has included allocation
 of workload time for peer review activities. The School Executive Group also considers EDI in
 secession planning.

 As part of our EDI processes we have looked at the overall distribution of research outputs by
 grade and gender (see Table 3), to check if there are any evidence of disproportionality. In
 preparation for the REF2021 cycle, published outputs by all eligible staff undergo regular internal
 review, with individual feedback provided. Outputs for 47 staff are returned in the UoA. EDI
 considerations were included in output selections ensuring an equitable return across different
 staff grades, gender and disciplinary groupings.


 Table 3: Outputs by Role and Gender

  Role                    F         M          Total
  Assistant Professor         58        56        114
  Associate Professor         116       33        149
  Professor                   80        82        162
  Researcher                  15        18         33
  Total Outputs               269       189       458


 The school had five impact case studies in development, involving four female and two male
 colleagues which were selected on merit. Four were ultimately chosen by the UoA’s REF Team,
 taking on board institutional peer review and an assessment of the quality and extent of impact
 achieved. To support REF activity, we have appointed leads (all female) for overall REF and
 Outputs (Carr), Impact (Schneider) and Environment (Zontini) (with workload allocation), whilst
 staff working on impact cases received workload allocation and funding.


 Section 3: Income, Infrastructure and facilities

                                              Unit’s Income

 The UoA has increased its research income since REF2014 from £6,116,000 to £7,113,100. Staff
 at all career levels have secured funds from a diverse range of funders (O2). UKRI funding has
 increased by more than 75% since REF 2014 and funding by UK charities by more than 80%
 reflecting the quality of our research and the reach of our engagement with civil society partners.
 Grants from Research Councils represented 65.88% of above-mentioned total (see also section
 1).

 Significant single grants in the period include awards from ESRC £536k (Ferguson); contributions
 by Grundmann and Roberts to Leverhulme £567k; by Papadopoulos to the AHRC 301k; by
 Clawson to the NIHR £218k; by Schneider to the European Commission £381k & Alzheimer’s
 Society £190k and, for early career researchers, personal fellowships: British Academy - £102k
 Bott and £239k ESRC Wikoff. Outstanding early career researchers recruited through University-
 wide schemes (e.g. NRFs) are already securing large grants, thus guaranteeing the sustainability
 of our research. Early Career Researchers have secured grants worth £2,349,700, representing
 22.62% of the total grants (£10388000) secured by the UOA.

 Members of the UoA have also secured £144,000 (ESRC IAA and others) for over 20 research
 projects (see section 1, O4 for details]


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



                    Infrastructure to support research and research impact

                                             University

 The UoA has benefitted from large university investments in Research Priority Areas and Beacons
 of Excellence [see Institutional Statement, 2.1(a)]. The RPA on Governance and Public Policy
 was led by Stafford; this work will be continued through the newly established Interdisciplinary
 Research Custer on Governance and Public Policy led by Roberts. It also leads a new IRC on
 EcoSocieties (Papadopulos). RPAs and IRCs awarded seedcorn funding to enable
 interdisciplinary research and KE thus contributing to the vibrancy of the Environment. The UoA
 also collaborates with the ‘Rights Lab’ Beacon. The Beacon is a University strategic investment
 to support and develop world-changing research to help combat modern slavery and secure
 significant external funding. The UoA includes two Beacon members (Gardner and Choi-
 Fitzpatrick), providing a valuable link to support wider research development, other UoA
 members collaborate on Beacon research receiving funding to support their work (e.g. Jordan).

 Whilst the UoA has a range of effective collaborations with a number of schools and departments
 across the University (see sections 1 and 4), of particular note is the long-standing association
 with the Institute of Mental Health (IMH). Further to significant involvement in the establishment
 of the IMH (Schneider), a number of staff and PGR students work with, and are often co-located
 at the IMH. This is a strong collaboration feeding outputs and impact into the research
 environment, on the back of a significant amount of grant capture.

 The UoA has effectively used institutional resources targeting Impact and KE. Seven staff
 members (all female, one BAME) have participated in the ESRC IAA-funded Impact Leadership
 Programme and three are Impact Case Study authors. Several members of staff have
 collaborated closely with the Institute for Policy and Engagement, recently established to assist
 academics in translating their research for national policy makers and for wider public
 dissemination [see Institutional Statement, 2.2(c)]. They include Impact Case Study authors
 (Roberts, Clawson, Fyson) and others e.g. (e.g. Chau, Laird) developing policy plans for work
 on the impact of the pandemic on different vulnerable groups. IAA funding has also been targeted
 to enhance public engagement in research through the National Festival of the Social Sciences.
 Six members of staff have organised events there (5 female, one male; one BAME).

 The UoA has led on the University’s commitments to support the establishment and successful
 delivery of doctoral training centres and partnerships over the REF period through the work of
 Pilnick on the ESRC DTC/DTP and Mohr on the Horizon DTP. In her role as Director of Training
 for the DTC (2011-15) Pilnick oversaw the implementation of a training programme that met ESRC
 requirements as well as the needs of the social science students who span four faculties. As
 Deputy Director of the Midlands Graduate School DTP (2015 – 2019) Pilnick has played a central
 role in establishing and implementing the vision of the MGS and the governance structures that
 hold the consortium together and have allowed it to flourish and had overall responsibility for the
 13 disciplinary and interdisciplinary pathways across the six consortium member sites. Thus, the
 future of PGR training expertise is well stablished within the UoA, faculty and University.

 The UoA has been successful in the annual Nottingham Research Fellows (NRFs) scheme
 and has appointed three prestigious NRFs across three disciplines (Gardner, Goulden and
 Tomczak). These appointments provided significant funding to support activity, and actively
 develop research collaborations and generate research income. Gardner has since been
 awarded funding under the UKRI GCRF Global Engagement Network and Goulden has
 received funding from the EPSRC while Tomczak has been awarded prestigious ERC and UKRI
 Future Leaders funding. We support and invest in ECR personal fellowships each year and have


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 been successful in hosting a Leverhulme ECR fellowship (Ghelfi), with match-funded
 investment.

 The UoA works closely with the Centre for Advanced Studies (CAS), including their dedicated
 Business Development Manager and team of Funding Officers to promote, signpost and target
 funding opportunities and support researchers through grant submission. CAS attend RKE
 Committee, meet with individual academics and monitor grant success and project progress. They
 also support delivery of training and events for staff, focussed on ECR, Fellowship writing, bid
 writing and a variety of interdisciplinary networking events. PGR and researchers can also access
 the support of the Researcher Academy with which the UoA closely collaborates.


                                           School level

 The RKE Committee leads on research strategy development and operational planning, including,
 investment plans and work with research clusters to enable more ambitious funding in parallel with
 enhanced and targeted support for researchers. To support this work the committee has access
 to a suite of management reports. The UoA has developed a wide-ranging, end-to-end Research
 Grant Support Framework that focusses on building timely and effective relationships, supporting
 investigators from idea through to grant submission, award and on-going project monitoring, with
 dedicated administrative support. All staff complete personal research plans with the DoRKE and
 are used to support development and future planning.

 The UoA utilises internal funds and wider faculty and University funding schemes to support a
 range of research development activities. This included over £125k awarded to individual
 colleagues to develop impact (12 staff, 7 ECRs, 11 female, 1 male, across 18 projects). £115k in
 targeted 4* output development work, including appointment of a dedicated REF Impact Officer to
 support further development and enhancement of impact case studies; a teaching associate to
 support buy-out for colleagues (examples include outputs produced by Zontini and Yip). Over
 £30k of internal seed-corn funding were provided to support development of early ideas,
 collaborations and to initiate data collection (e.g. Jordan). There is an expanded international
 conference fund available for all staff (rolling £12k support each year) and an annual personal
 research account allocation (£750) to support networking, collaboration and pilot work.

 The RKE committee holds an annual budget of £15k to support a range of initiatives whilst the five
 Research Clusters hold £10k p.a. to support research development activities. The UoA also offers
 an opportunity for ‘early’ study leave to support timely research collaborations and REF activity.
 Overall, this represents an investment totalling more than £550k (above the cost of study leave).
 All research staff have access to these funds thus allowing ECR and those who do not held
 external grants to conduct research, KE activities and produce high quality publications.

 The UoA offers a range of support to its vibrant PGR community overseen by the DoDS (Yip) who
 supports and promotes PGR activity. This includes £12.5k each year to support research
 development activity, including networking, fieldwork, conference attendance, a monthly social
 event and the annual ENQUIRE conference. All PGRs are encouraged to join a research cluster
 to help integrate into the research culture and develop their own research. This has supported the
 career pathways of some PGRs to ECR staff in the school (e.g. Warwick began as a PGR and is
 now a Research Cluster lead). The UoA has introduced a PGR peer-mentoring scheme to support
 induction, training and development.




                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                             Facilities

 UoA members are primarily based in the School of Sociology and Social Policy which is co-
 located in the Law and Social Sciences building on the main university campus. This location
 facilitates a supportive and collaborative working environment. All members have individual
 offices with high quality, networked computers. There is a common room, used by staff and
 PGRs. The Hallward Library which houses the University’s extensive social sciences collection
 is adjacent. The NuSearch facility provides bibliographic databases, electronic books and
 journals. CAS is situated opposite the School, facilitating our access to its research-support and
 management services.


 Most PGRs are located in a dedicated PGR shared space (a recent faculty investment), co-located
 in the same building as most members of the UoA. A number of PGR students are also based
 across the campus, depending on the interdisciplinary collaborations (e.g. IMH). The UoA flexibly
 adapts to the varied PGR cohort, with students undertaking full and part-time study, study whilst
 employed etc. All PGRs have access to office space, facilities, and a shared kitchen space and
 staff room. Three of our PhD students are working with external organisations (RSPCA, NHS and
 Unlock) through ESRC collaborative grants.

 The Nottingham Lakeside Arts Centre, with its performance space has enabled public
 performances such as Schneider’s work with the dementia choir, Purser has utilised newly built
 performance spaces in the Teaching and Learning building for work on dance as method, thereby
 enhancing impact and KE activities.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

  Interdisciplinary research is central to our strategy and includes collaborative work within the
  UoA, the wider university and further afield. UoA members contribute to several of the
  university’s interdisciplinary priority areas including: Governance and Public Policy (GaPP);
  Rights and Justice and Science, Technology and Society. Our multidisciplinary approach
  extends to working with the university’s Institute of Mental Health (amongst the biggest mental
  research hubs in Europe) and the Rights Lab.

  At national and international levels, we work across and with many other disciplines, including
  anthropology, arts, biochemistry, computer science, economics, education, engineering,
  geography, health sciences, law, mathematics, media, memory studies, music, nursing,
  physics, philosophy, politics, psychology, social history, statistics, psychometrics, and
  veterinary studies.

  From a strategic perspective, the UoA has established interdisciplinary collaborations with
  health sciences as well as arts and humanities. Examples include Schneider’s
  collaborations with the British Association of Music Therapy on the Arts and Dementia. Pilnick
  has been working with health care providers nationally and internationally to improve
  communication between health/ social care providers and their clients/ patients. She has also
  supervised interdisciplinary PhD studentships with health sciences. Yip has been collaborating
  with partners from psychology in a study exploring wellbeing in transgender people following
  gender affirming treatment.

  Bott’s project ‘Women's Empowerment and Child Health: Exploring the Impact of Rojiroti
  Microfinance in Poor Communities in Bihar, Northern India’, involves partners from the fields of
  health(care) and economics. Jordan has conducted a number of collaborative projects on


                                                                                            Page 16
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      mental health in prisons. Hobson-West is leading the UoA’s partnerships with veterinary
      sciences. She has been awarded a Welcome Trust Collaborative Award in Humanities and
      Social Sciences for her research on the ‘Animal Research as Nexus’ with collaborators from
      Exeter, Oxford, Manchester, Southampton, as well as EU Horizon 2020 funds to develop
      ‘VetBioNet: Veterinary Biocontained Facility Network for Excellence in Animal Infectiology
      Research and Experimentation’. She has also won collaborative doctoral and post-doctoral
      awards to supervise researchers working across sociological and veterinary sciences.
•
•     Holmwood challenged the Government’s approach to ‘promoting British values’ by translating
      his research into a popular theatre play (in collaboration with LUNG Theatre Group), based on
      the (court) case of the Trojan Horse Affair involving four Birmingham schools. Zontini co-led
      the project ‘Mobilities and Transnational Identities of Migrant Youth: Using Community Spaces
      and Creative Agendas in Shaping Policy and Practice Debates’, working with BAME young
      people and a trained drama therapist at the Bathway Theatre in London. Purser obtained RPA
      funding to explore the use of dance as a method for researching vulnerable groups.

      Moreover, our staff play key leadership roles in many national and international research
      networks, including the British Association of Music Therapy; The UK Dementia and Wellbeing
      Network; EMN -The European Migration Network; IMISCOE – the European Network on
      International Migration, Integration and Social Cohesion and UNICEF.


                                       Contribution to the discipline

      Governance of Professional Organisations

      Staff in the UoA held key roles in the governance of professional organisations. For instance,
      Holmwood was President of the Sociological Association (2012-15) and member of the
      Executive Committee of the International Sociological Association (2014-18); Pilnick is a
      member of the subcommittee on Ethnomethodology and Conversation Analysis of the American
      Sociological Association; D’Angelo is convenor of the Social Network Analysis Study Group of
      the British Sociological Association; Zontini was a member of the Standing Committee on
      Contested Childhoods (2013-19) and of Gender and Sexuality in Migration Research (2019-) of
      the European Network on Integration, Migration and Social Cohesion; Clamp is Chair of the
      Restorative Justice Council; Dauncey is experts committee member of the Universities China
      Committee in London and Honorary Secretary of the British Association for Chinese Studies.

      Editorial Work

      Members of the UoA have leading roles in editing key international journals. Grundmann is
      senior editor of the Oxford Research Encyclopaedia of Climate Science; Fyson is member of
      the editorial collective of Critical Social Policy; Dauncey is editor of the Journal of the British
      Association for Chinese Studies; D’Angelo is co-editor of Work, Employment, and Society;
      Pilnick is advisory editor for Social Science and Medicine; Carr is editor of the Probation
      Journal. In April 2020 Chau and D’Angelo were appointed as Editors of Social Policy and
      Society.

      Memberships of editorial boards include: Sociology (Lumsden and Zontini); Cultural Sociology;
      Keywords (Stevenson); British Journal of Sociology (Holmwood) The Sociological Review
      (Papadopoulos and Hobson-West); Journal of Women and Ageing (Chau); Child Abuse
      Review (Laird); Subjectivity; Teknokultura (Papadopoulos); South African Crime Quarterly
      (Dixon), Youth Justice (Carr).

      Membership of editorial boards for book series include: Global Migration and Social Change
      (Policy Press) (D’Angelo and Zontini); Anthem Series in Citizenship and National Identities
      (Stevenson). Members have also contributed as editors of special issues: Identities


                                                                                                  Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  (Zontini); Routledge International Library of Sociology; Palgrave Pivot series on the History of
  Sociology (Holmwood).


  Peer-review work for external funding bodies

  Members of the UoA provide peer review for a wide range of national and international
  funding bodies including: ESRC; Academy of Finland; Luxembourg National Research Fund;
  Research Promotion Foundation of Cyprus; European Commission; Dutch Research Council;
  NIHR-School for Social Care Research, Department of Health; British Council Newton Fund;
  Riksbankens Jubileumsfond; German Research Fund (DFG); Austrian Climate Research
  Programme (ACRP); Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (NWO); Dunhill Medical
  Trust; Alzheimer's Society; Memorabel (NL); Wellcome Trust; Leverhulme Trust; DEFRA; Irish
  Research Council; Dogs Trust; Fonds de la Recherche Scientifique; British
  Academy/Leverhulme; UKRI Future Leaders; Hong Kong General Research Fund; Swiss
  National Science Foundation; AHRC.

  Recognition

  The work of staff has been recognised through a variety of prizes, awards, and honours,
  nationally and internationally. For example, the Nottingham Impact Accelerator Knowledge
  Exchange Prize 2019, the British Society of Criminology Book Prize 2017, and the British
  Academy Rising Star Engagement Award 2018 (Tomczak); The Norm Smith Publication in
  Social Work Research Award (Laird); the BSA Climate Change Group Article Prize (Goulden);
  the BSA/Sage Prize for Research Excellence in Cultural Sociology 2018 (Stevenson);
  Routledge Sociology Super-author (Zontini); Paper of the year, Institute for Mental Health
  (Pilnick). In addition, many of the outputs of the UoA were translated into different languages,
  e.g. French (Carr); Portuguese (Henley); Chinese (Grundmann); Russian (Grundmann), and
  Polish (Pilnick).

                               Contribution to economy and society

  Members of the UoA work in collaboration with external organisations from the public, industry,
  third and charitable sectors as well as with service users and carers. Since 2014,
  researchers in the UoA have produced non-academic outputs including: technical and policy
  reports, practice guidelines, bulletins, blogs, magazine articles, films, theatre plays and toolkits.
  Staff members have contributed to TV and radio programmes, provided training and
  consultancy to communities and practitioners, participated in non-academic boards, committees
  and expert groups.

  Various local, national and international non-academic stakeholders have supported and utilised
  research from SSP (e.g. Nottingham Crime and Drugs Partnership, a number of local authorities
  and charities, NHS, Department of Health, Office of the Children’s Commissioner, Office of the
  Independent Anti-slavery Commissioner, Department of Energy and Climate Change, the
  European Commission, US Department of the Treasury, National Age Network Zimbabwe,
  Central Policy Unit Hong Kong, Korean Labour Institute). Selected examples, from each of our
  research clusters, of how our work contributes to society are presented below. This work is in
  addition to our impact-case studies, thus showing the vitality of our environment.




                                                                                                Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   A member of the Wellbeing, Health and Social Care research cluster, Shaw has served on
   NHS Trusts as a Non-Executive Director. His roles include service on the boards of NHS
   Nottingham Primary Care Commissioning Trust (PCT), NHS Nottinghamshire PCT,
   Nottingham North and East Clinical Commissioning Group (CCG) and currently with Erewash
   CCG. Through impact on hundreds of key decisions over the period, his views have been
   influential in primary care service development. He has also held key service development
   roles. He chaired the transition-working group to amalgamate 4 Derbyshire CCGs and is
   currently a Lay member responsible for Primary Care Commissioning in the Derby and
   Derbyshire CCG.

   In the fields of Public and Social Policy, during her EU-funded Marie Curie research project
   from 2016 to 2018, Chau was a visiting scholar to government/public funded think tanks in
   the EU, Hong Kong, South Korea and the UK. She has shared her work with national and
   international stakeholders including: Citizens UK, Lai Yin Association (UK), Living Wage
   Foundation (UK), National Chinese Healthy Living Centre (UK), Wai Yin Society (UK), Central;
   Maria Kopp Institute for Demography and Families (Hungary), Centre for European Policy
   Studies (Belgium), Central Policy Unit (Hong Kong), Citizens HK (Hong Kong), and Korean
   Labour Institute (South Korea). Chau presented research on women’s labour participation
   and work-family reconciliation policies to government ministers and government advisory
   bodies. She is currently working in a partnership with stakeholders from the public and
   voluntary sector in Sheffield on a project about developing ageing-friendly policies and
   practices in the city. The partnership has recently submitted an application to become a
   member of the WHO Global Network for Age-friendly Cities and Communities.

   Within the Identities, Citizenship, Equalities and Migration research cluster, Madziva has
   been creating research impact in the area of global migration and diasporic studies. She has
   been working closely with non-governmental organisations (e.g. National Age Network of
   Zimbabwe), migrant support organisations and faith communities at local, national and
   international levels. Key themes include forced migration and family separation, the use of
   evidence in immigration policy, migrant integration and access to services, bringing together
   work on education and employability and/or entrepreneurship, and more recently themes
   around migrant health, use of antibiotics and sustainability as well as the links between
   migration, human-trafficking and contemporary slavery.

   In the multi-disciplinary field of Science and Society, Goulden has been collaborating with
   a wide range of non-academic stakeholders, including Antenna, Arup Group Ltd, Centre for
   Sustainable Energy, Department of Energy and Climate Change, eSight Energy Ltd,
   Siemens, ARM Ltd, BT, Cisco, Crossword Cybersecurity; Digital Catapult; GCHQ; Internet
   Society; Nottingham City Council, Wiltshire County Council. Since 2018 through the Defence
   Against the Dark Artefacts (DADA) project, Goulden has been working in a research team in
   collaboration with several major government, industry and third sector partners, including
   GCHQ, ARM, Cisco, BT, and the Internet Society. The project is developing cybersecurity
   measures for Internet of Things technologies in the home, and Goulden’s role is concerned
   with ensuring these technologies work with the inhabitants of the home. Goulden’s other
   impact-relevant activity includes a response to DCMS’ proposed regulations on IoT
   technologies, which has sought to draw attention to aspects which are currently being missed
   by the proposals.

  Regarding research on Criminal Justice, Carr has recently completed studies on young
  people's transitions from custody, the effects of juvenile criminal records, and the role of pre-
  sentence reports in sentencing and LGBT prisoners' experiences. Carr has been working with
  multiple non-academic stakeholders, amongst which Include Youth (Northern Ireland, UK),
  Irish Penal Reform Trust (Ireland), Probation Service at the Department of Justice (Ireland),
  Youth Justice Agency (Northern Ireland, UK), Council for Probation in Europe (Netherlands),
  Council of Europe (Strasbourg, France), NIACRO (Northern Ireland, UK). In addition, she has
  served as: i) Expert Panel Member for the Development of a National Indicator Set for the

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   Department of Children and Youth Affairs (ROI), ii) Ministerial Appointee to the National
   Advisory Council for the National Policy Framework for Children and Young People (2014-
   2020) (ROI), and iii) Scientific Expert, Council of Europe, Council for Penological Cooperation.




                                                                                             Page 20
