Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Greenwich

 Unit of Assessment: 28 - History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Based in the Old Royal Naval College at the heart of the Maritime Greenwich World Heritage
 site, the History Research Group (HRG) supports and develops research excellence and public
 engagement to help deliver the university’s research mission: to inspire society and the world
 through discovering, applying and sharing knowledge.

 The HRG is located in the School of Humanities and Social Sciences in the Faculty of Liberal
 Arts and Sciences. The group has eight core members, seven of whom have significant
 responsibility for research (SRR), with overlapping expertise in three key areas: Empire and
 Imperialism (Talbot, Rand, Martin); Gender, Life Cycles and Households (Eustance, Martin,
 Pennell); Maritime and Environment (Carolan, Talbot, Taylor).

 These three ‘research pillars’ underpin the collaborations, partnerships and knowledge
 exchange that are central to our research and scholarship. By creating and disseminating new
 knowledge with local, national and global partners, our collective aim is to support internationally
 excellent and world leading research in an engaged and impactful modern university.

    a. Unit context and structure

 The History submission to REF2014 prioritised (1) increasing the quantity and quality of
 publications and outputs; (2) increasing the number of funding bids delivered; (3) raising the
 group’s profile nationally and internationally; and (4) increasing the overall size of the group.

 We have delivered substantially against these objectives: in 2014, c. 35% of our outputs were
 assessed to be of 3* or 4* quality; internal and external reviews conducted since 2014, suggest
 that c. 75% of outputs produced in this cycle meet these criteria. We have increased the number
 of external funding bids delivered to 20, worth a total value of more than £515,000 and have
 generated more than £340,000 in external research income since 2014. We have also secured
 more than £250,000 of direct internal investment, as well as an additional £320,000 to enable us
 to offer a total of seven fully funded PhD scholarships in the current cycle (against three in the
 period 2008-2014).

 While the size of our submission at REF2021 (6.5FTE) is comparable with that at 2014 (6.7FTE)
 institutional restructuring and staffing changes since 2014, allied to new leadership and
 enhanced institutional support, have consolidated areas of strength and addressed concerns
 regarding sustainability and focus identified in the sub-panel’s feedback at REF2014. All of the
 current submission are employed on permanent contracts (against c. 70% FTE in 2014); 85% of
 eligible historians employed at the university are entered into REF2021, against 55% in 2014.
 These data demonstrate a group which is more cohesive and sustainable, and better equipped
 to develop and retain researchers. Through our individual and collaborative work, we are now an
 active and engaged group producing high-quality, original work with significant impacts, locally,
 nationally and internationally.

    b. Research strategy

 The HRG’s research strategy is designed to foster a culture that produces high-quality, impactful
 research through targeted investments and collaborative engagements with partners. As a small
 group in a modern, research-informed university, we ensure vitality and sustainability by
 identifying and supporting areas of shared expertise, while maintaining the geographical,
 chronological and methodological diversity essential for high-quality teaching, engagement and
 knowledge exchange. Our three research pillars provide coherent but flexible thematic foci:


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Empire and Imperialism includes strengths in British imperial history and South Asia, as
        well as in the Ottoman Empire and the modern Middle East. Two fully funded PhD
        studentships are attached to this pillar, as well as ongoing research collaborations with
        the Palestine Exploration Fund and the UK Punjab Heritage Association.
    •   Gender, Life Cycles and Households incorporates work on politics and suffrage, the
        social and cultural history of childhood, and on early modern domestic spaces and
        household economies. Three fully funded PhD studentships are currently attached to this
        pillar, which also encompasses collaborations with Charlton House, the Royal Greenwich
        Heritage Trust and with local schools.
    •   Maritime and Environment includes our historic strengths in maritime and naval history
        as well as new expertise in environmental and cultural histories, including on water and
        energy. One fully funded PhD student has recently completed and four PhD students are
        currently attached to this pillar, while long-term collaborations with the Greenwich
        Maritime Centre and the National Maritime Museum are ongoing.

 Through the current cycle, the group’s annual planning and investments have been guided by
 the following strategic objectives:

    1. to increase the size of the submission at REF2021 by supporting all eligible staff to
       deliver high-quality research and by recruiting, developing and retaining excellent
       researchers;
    2. to deliver high-quality outputs;
    3. to increase external income to support research and research training;
    4. to expand our community of high-quality postgraduate research students;
    5. to raise our profile and impact, and;
    6. to develop local, national and international collaborations, with colleagues and partners
       within and beyond the discipline and the wider academe.

 To deliver these objectives, we have made strategic investments designed to:

    •   Extend areas of strength and build new capacity by making targeted investments to
        support future growth, leading to a c. 10% increase in external research income and by
        recruiting high-quality PhD students to fully funded scholarships attached to our research
        pillars (Objectives 1 & 4).
    •   Build a supportive and cohesive research environment, through: the alignment of
        research and teaching responsibilities, essential in a small team in a modern university;
        providing regular access to sabbatical leave and/or reduced teaching; regular and open
        HRG meetings to discuss strategy around bids, collaborations, doctoral supervision,
        teaching loads and sabbaticals, and support for ongoing and new research projects
        (Objectives 2 & 3).
    •   Support collaborations to achieve the greatest possible impact for our research by
        fostering knowledge exchange and collaboration with partners at local, national and
        international levels (e.g. Pennell’s fellowship at the Folger Shakespeare Library in 2019;
        Rand’s international collaboration for the BA-funded ‘Re-Newing the Military History of
        Colonial South Asia’ project); through public engagement (e.g. Talbot as BBC/AHRC
        New Generation Thinker) and open-access dissemination; through interdisciplinary
        collaborations with colleagues at Greenwich and elsewhere (e.g. fully-funded PhD
        scholarships with colleagues in Literature and Sociology, and with partner institutions
        such as the Palestine Exploration Fund) (Objectives 5 & 6).

 Though there have been significant challenges during the current cycle, we have made good
 progress towards our key priorities and objectives: we have recruited, developed and promoted
 high-quality researchers, forged new relationships with partners and built a more diverse and
 sustainable PGR research culture. Each research-active member of the HRG is included in the
 REF2021 submission; four members of the group have secured external funding for research
 activities during this cycle (Pennell, Rand, Talbot, Taylor) and we have won significant internal


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 investment enabling us to expand and support our postgraduate research community by
 increasing the number of funded PhD scholarships attached to the group from three to seven.

 Beyond 2021, the group recognises further opportunities, as well as some challenges ahead,
 and we look forward with confidence to continuing to develop our distinctive, inclusive and
 impactful research environment. Having demonstrated our ability to successfully deliver smaller,
 grant-funded projects, our forward strategy is to secure larger funding successes, to recruit more
 PhD/postdoctoral researchers and to deliver increasingly impactful research.

 To ensure ongoing vitality and sustainability, our key objectives for the next cycle are to:
    1. Recruit and retain high-quality staff while increasing the size of the HRG through
       recruitment, collaboration and engagement, including: PGR recruitment, postdoctoral
       appointment(s); external fellowships and building interdisciplinary collaborations with
       internal and external colleagues in cognate disciplines (Strategic Objectives 1, 4).
    2. Ensure ongoing quality related (QR) funding by delivering a high-quality
       submission to REF2021 and to increase our external research income. We have
       therefore committed to submitting larger funding applications (worth in excess of
       £150,000) from each of our research pillars during the next cycle (Strategic Objectives 2,
       3).
    3. Build our regional, national and international impact by developing existing and
       building new collaborations with partners in each of our key research pillars (Strategic
       Objectives 5, 6).

 These objectives will guide the group’s strategic planning and investments and will be monitored
 through annual review of individual and group activity, overseen by the History Portfolio Leader,
 Head of School and Research Leads.

    c. Impact strategy

 Our impact strategy promotes knowledge exchange through collaborations with stakeholders in
 primary and secondary education, third sector and charitable organisations and government,
 and public engagement through innovative in-person and online programming to facilitate
 cultural enhancement and development. Underpinning this strategy are principles of:
 communication through creative interventions; adding community value; cultivating collaborative
 and environmental sustainability; and modelling and leading on best research-informed practice
 through ongoing professional development and robust adherence to ethical frameworks.

 By making strategic investments in staff and collaborations, through training, expert support and
 direct funding for key projects/activities, we have enabled members of the group to:

    •   Enhance public understandings of current societal issues through knowledge
        exchange. Supported by an £8,000 faculty award and a term-long sabbatical,
        Eustance’s Greenwich100 project, in cooperation with the Royal Borough of Greenwich
        and the Royal Greenwich Heritage Trust, and her successful, multi-site Suffragettes in
        Trousers exhibition, with the UK Parliament Vote100 programme, engaged diverse
        learning and policy-making communities, from local Key Stage 2 pupils to government
        department civil servants.
    •   Work with partner organisations to foster sustainable and co-productive cross-
        community relationships. Talbot’s ongoing collaboration with the Palestine Exploration
        Fund, has been supported with a Vice Chancellor’s PhD scholarship, worth c. £54,000,
        utilising the PEF’s archival collections, as well as through national and international
        public engagement initiatives (Being Human, 2019; A.M. Qattan Foundation, ‘Palestine
        from Above’, 2019-21); QR funding enabled Rand’s collaboration with Nutkhut, a
        Greenwich-based creative arts company, on the National Lottery Heritage Fund (NLHF)-
        funded ‘Never Set Eyes on the Land’ project to deliver a successful public exhibition
        exploring the impact of India’s partition on the South Asian diaspora in Britain.


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Reach diverse publics and develop new audiences for our research through
        accessible media content. All members of the group are supported to undertake
        outreach and engagement activities and to provide consultancy for broadcast and other
        media. As BBC/AHRC New Generation Thinker, Talbot gained national and international
        audiences for broadcasts on Ottoman maritime, legal and cultural histories, and was lead
        historical consultant for Netflix’s successful Rise of Empires: Ottoman; Eustance, Rand,
        Talbot and Taylor consulted for the BBC and Channel 4.

 In alignment with the university’s new strategic mission from 2021, our strategy will continue to
 embed principles of creativity, community co-production and sustainability in our planning and
 development of impact, for beneficiaries locally, nationally and internationally. We aim to
 consolidate and build on our successes to date through four key strategies:

    1. Enhancing and formalising our working relationships with local partners by concluding
       memoranda of understanding to build knowledge exchange partnerships and pathways
       to impact with Royal Greenwich Heritage Trust (RGHT), Nutkhut, Old Royal Naval
       College Foundation, and Palestine Exploration Fund;
    2. Scoping new national and international partnerships and creative opportunities that
       complement our local collaborations to allow further cross-fertilisation;
    3. Investing to support impact-generating activity and develop best practice evaluation
       processes to underpin our research pillar pathways and local partnerships, and;
    4. Ensuring all our activities reflect and advance principles of equality, diversity and
       inclusion; and are ethically and environmentally sustainable for all involved and
       impacted.

 2. People

    a. Staff

 Investing in staff and fostering a collegial, supportive culture for research and professional
 development underpins our core strategic objective: to recruit, develop and retain high-quality
 researchers. Guided by the university’s ‘People Strategy’, the HRG’s staffing strategy embeds
 tailored support for research staff through the university’s comprehensive Researcher
 Development Framework (RDF), following Vitae’s Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers and the Advance HE Aurora programme.

 Three of the 6.7 FTE staff submitted at REF2014 remain (Martin, Rand, Taylor), and we have
 been joined by four colleagues, including two ECRs, appointed in the current cycle (Carolan,
 Eustance, Pennell, Talbot). Since 2016, the group has been concentrated in the Faculty of
 Liberal Arts and Sciences and line managed by the History Portfolio Leader/HRG convenor,
 allowing for the realignment and integration of research and teaching to make the group more
 cohesive, inclusive and sustainable. All members of the group are now employed on permanent,
 academic contracts (compared to c. 70% in 2014), guaranteeing reserved research time, and
 the stability which is essential to high-quality research. 85% of all eligible staff are submitted in
 2021, significantly above the institution-wide average of 50% and a marked improvement against
 REF2014 (when 55% of eligible historians were submitted).

 As the data demonstrates, we are strongly committed to equality and inclusivity. Of the eight
 historians employed at the university, 62.5% are female; of the seven historians with SSR,
 71.4% are female and 62.5% of our submitted outputs were written by women. Our commitment
 to ensuring equality is delivered through the provision of flexible and remote working
 arrangements and other reasonable adjustments. Two members of the group are part-time; two
 more have flexible working arrangements for health and family-related reasons. All staff, whether
 full or part time, are provided with a clear ‘research day’ free from administrative and teaching
 commitments, ensuring all members of the group are supported to pursue their research. The
 success of these arrangements is indicated by the fact that 25% of the outputs submitted at


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 REF2021 were produced by part-time members of staff, who comprise c. 23% of the
 submission’s FTE.

 All SSR staff are on the ‘Research Career Pathway’, guaranteeing a minimum 20% workload
 allocation for research and research-related activity, which is reviewed regularly with the History
 Portfolio Leader/HRG convenor, who is responsible for deployment, workload management and
 staff development. Research excellence is recognised and rewarded through annual promotion
 opportunities. A total of five members of the HRG have been promoted on the Research Career
 Pathway since 2014, three since the creation of the School of Humanities in 2018 (two AC2
 Lecturers promoted to AC3 Senior Lecturer; three AC3 Senior Lecturers promoted to AC4
 Principal Lecturer/Associate Professor).

 Early Career Researchers (ECR) are allocated substantially reduced teaching and administrative
 loads for the first 12 months of their appointment, with mentoring at faculty, school and research
 group level. The Faculty ECR Network provides funding for research projects, teaching relief,
 professional training, and interdisciplinary collaborations. The network hosts regular meetings to
 discuss shared research and teaching interests and practices, forums on professional
 development, skills training, and social and networking events. Both of the ECR historians
 appointed in this cycle have benefitted from ECR funding, receiving more than £3,500 of direct
 support in addition to ECR Network-funded training on grant writing, REF and media
 engagement, as well as annual QR funding and direct investment; both are now AC3 Senior
 Lecturer.

 An annual, competitive sabbatical round, administered at faculty level, provides regular access
 to study leave of one term for all staff. All members of the HRG have benefitted from at least one
 term’s teaching/administrative relief in the current cycle, with support tailored to deliver individual
 and collective research plans (e.g. Martin’s 2016 sabbatical enabled the completion of Creating
 Religious Childhoods; Eustance’s 2016 sabbatical enabled extensive collaboration, engagement
 and impact activities for the Greenwich100 project; Taylor’s 2020 sabbatical enabled completion
 of the research for Liquid History, her forthcoming monograph on rivers).

 In order to deliver our strategic commitment to build capacity, we have made additional, targeted
 investments in staff from QR and competitive funding, by:

    •   Investing in bespoke, focussed training for bid-writing and grant winning. In
        January 2016 the group attended a residential, grant-writing masterclass at the
        Missenden Centre for Higher Education, following which fifteen bids have been submitted
        from the group, of which five have been successful. Returns on this investment are
        evident in our successes in this cycle building foundations for more ambitious future
        plans.
    •   Providing additional reciprocal support in kind to enable colleagues to pursue
        important development opportunities, including international fellowships, research and
        networking activities. During this cycle, this has included: Pennell: Huntington Library
        Research Fellowship, California (2017); Folger Shakespeare Library, Washington DC
        (2019); Taylor, Rachel Carson Center, Munich (2017).
    •   Supporting national and international research and development activities. Carolan
        has received funding to attend residential, in-country Russian language training; Rand
        has made regular trips to South Asia for archival research and to further develop
        networks established during his BA-funded ‘Re-Newing’ project; Talbot has received
        support for archival trips to Turkey and major conferences in Germany, Japan and the
        USA that have been instrumental to his career development and research profile.

 Though our work is global in its range, and our student population is diverse, at present the
 group does not include any BAME researchers. We recognise that increasing diversity is an
 important priority for us, as it is for the discipline as a whole. Following the recommendations of
 the Royal Historical Society’s 2018 report on ‘Race, Ethnicity & Equality in UK History’, we have
 taken positive steps to address this (e.g. by securing funding for an interdisciplinary PhD project

                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 exploring the material culture of immigrant households; by encouraging applications from groups
 under-represented in the discipline and the university; by investing QR funding in projects
 examining BAME histories, for example, through a staff-student collaboration examining Islam’s
 Inspirational Women, in 2020). We are and will remain committed to researching and teaching
 BAME histories, to developing and supporting BAME students, and to making positive efforts to
 diversify the group and discipline.

 We recognise that developing and supporting staff is especially crucial to the viability and
 sustainability of smaller groups like ours. By making targeted investments in people and
 capacity-building, and building a collegial and supportive culture, we have made significant
 progress since 2014 and laid strong foundations for the future. We have recruited and retained
 high-quality researchers; we have secured permanent contracts for all; we have developed and
 promoted members of the group across different career stages; we have invested in training and
 direct support for research. The returns on these investments are already visible and we are
 confident they will continue to grow throughout the next cycle.

    b. Research students

 Expanding and developing our group of postgraduate research (PGR) students, while sustaining
 high-quality and rigorous training, is a strategic priority. Though the size of our research student
 base has been affected by the closure of the PGR-focussed Greenwich Maritime Institute (GMI),
 we have made significant progress towards building a more diverse and sustainable PGR
 community, with nine PhD students currently associated with the group and five completions in
 the current REF cycle (as well as four, additional completions, co-supervised by members of the
 group but not recorded in REF4a). Of 14 PhD students attached to the group in this cycle, seven
 are male and seven are female; ten are full-time and four are part-time.

 Whereas in 2014 our postgraduate researchers were concentrated in maritime topics, our PGR
 community is now more varied and better aligned to the research expertise of the group. Since
 2014, we have succeeded in winning significant investment (to a total value of c. £430,000) to
 support postgraduate research, securing six Vice Chancellor’s PhD scholarships, including two
 interdisciplinary projects, and a large private donation for a dedicated ‘History Research Group’
 PhD scholarship, These scholarships provide a full fee waiver, RCUK-level stipend, and access
 to additional financial support for research, dissemination and networking, reflecting our
 commitment to developing our research pillars and fostering interdisciplinary and collaborative
 research.

 All University of Greenwich research students complete a tailored, multi-strand research training
 programme, coordinated by the university’s Research and Enterprise Training Institute (RETI),
 covering academic writing, research methods, research analysis software, research ethics,
 teaching and learning skills, research funding and academic job applications. Subject-specific
 training in historical research methods and approaches is delivered by the HRG and the group
 also provides additional financial support to allow PGR students to complete specialist, external
 training (e.g. at the Institute for Historical Research). Where appropriate, PGR students are also
 encouraged to undertake the university’s HEA-accredited PGCert in Learning and Teaching.

 Supervision and monitoring systems are robust. Admissions, progress and annual monitoring for
 PGR students are overseen by the Faculty Research Degrees Committee. Within 18 months of
 registration, PGR students are required to complete a viva voce examination before upgrade to
 PhD. All supervisors must complete ‘Essential Training for Research Staff’ and those with fewer
 than three successful completions are mentored by more experienced colleagues, who act as
 lead supervisors. In the current cycle, three members of the group have attained the threshold of
 three successful supervisions, allowing them to act as lead supervisors/mentors, an important
 measure of our growing capacity. Whereas only three members of the group submitted at 2014
 had supervised PhD students, all members of the HRG currently supervise doctoral research
 students.


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In order to deliver our strategic commitment to build capacity, we have made further, targeted
 investments, by committing to deploy 10% of our annual QR funding to support PGRs and, in
 Spring 2020, we made extra funds available to support PGRs during the first national lockdown.
 The faculty provides additional financial support to enable PGR students to attend conferences,
 seminars and training.

 Our investments in, and support for, our PGRs students is reflected in their achievements. In the
 current cycle, doctoral students attached to the group have: co-discovered a new Sir James
 Thornhill drawing in the Royal Greenwich Heritage Trust collections; published in The Jerusalem
 Quarterly, Cuadernos de Historia Contemporánea and international edited collections; organised
 seminars, conferences, academic networks, including the ‘Reimagining the History of Childhood’
 conference, the Children’s History Society, IHR History Lab; presented at international
 conferences in Berlin, Limerick, Porto, Ramallah, Sydney and Valencia; undertaken outreach
 and engagement activities, for example serving on the steering committee of St Alfege Church’s
 successful ‘Heart of Greenwich’ NLHF-funded project (worth c. £1.8m); won research funding
 from, amongst others: the Economic History Society, the Royal Historical Society and the History
 of Education Society.

 Recently completed doctoral students supervised by members of the group now hold
 postdoctoral/professional positions at the University of Iowa, the Imperial War Museum and the
 British Library.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

    a.   Income

 Members of the group are encouraged and supported to seek financial support for research
 projects from external funders. In the current cycle, the group has prepared and submitted bids
 for external funding worth in excess of £571,000, securing £211,058 in REF4b research income
 as well as an additional £130,000 in external research income from sources not reported in
 HESA returns (giving a total of £340,000 compared with £303,940 in REF2014). Highlights
 include:

    •    Taylor’s full-time AHRC research fellowship on ‘Material Cultures of Energy’ (£164,866)
         Care for the Future programme. Working with collaborators at Birkbeck, University of
         London, Taylor was responsible for research and writing on the project’s spatial strand in
         Britain, with peer reviewed publications in press and forthcoming.
    •    A large, private donation from a former student, worth a total of c. £95,000, over four
         years, to support a fully funded PhD scholarship, as well as specialised research training
         and a generous research bursary.
    •    Rand led the British Academy-funded (£9,900) ‘Re-Newing the Military History of
         Colonial South Asia’ project with Professor Kaushik Roy (Jadavpur University, Kolkata).
         The project culminated in two international symposia, leading to two co-edited volumes of
         essays (one forthcoming) which map new directions in imperial military history and
         establishing ongoing international collaborations.
    •    Pennell’s Economic History Society Carnevali Small Grant (£4,100) for research
         assistance on photographing and transcribing 18th century rental documents in London,
         Cornish and US archives.
    •    Talbot secured an A.M. Qattan Foundation Grant (£1,500) to participate in workshops,
         public lectures and networking events in Ramallah, leading to a special edition of
         Jerusalem Quarterly.

 In addition, members of the group have secured funded fellowships overseas: Pennell:
 Huntington Library Research Fellowship, California ($6,000); Folger Shakespeare Library,
 Washington DC ($10,000). Taylor: Rachel Carson Center for Environment and Society, Munich
 (€2,000).


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have achieved significant success in securing direct internal investments: including c.
 £320,000 in PhD scholarships, c. £240,000 in QR funding and c. £15,000 from other streams.
 Since 2014 the HRG has received internal research funding worth an average of more than
 £30,000 per annum. These funds have been used to support our strategic priorities, as above,
 and to meet the ongoing costs of members’ research and dissemination.

 As a designated research group within the Faculty of Liberal Arts & Sciences (FLAS), the HRG
 receives annual allocations of QR funding and the benefits of ongoing institutional investments in
 research capacity, via the Early Career Researcher Network, Office of Undergraduate Research
 and Postgraduate Researcher Forum. Regular investments of QR funding ensure that the group
 have access to necessary facilities and resources, including: equipment, subscriptions/fees for
 research-related digital resources; reprographic and copyright fees, funded research assistance
 in archives/libraries to support publications, research trips in the UK and overseas. Staff and
 students attached to the group are able to bid for additional support via the triannual Faculty
 Conference Grant to support participation in national and international conferences.

    b. Infrastructure and facilities

 The group’s work is supported by the university’s investments in infrastructure and facilities.
 Operational support for research and research impact is provided primarily by the university’s
 Greenwich Research and Enterprise (GRE) unit and the Research and Enterprise Training
 Institute (RETI), which supports training, researcher development and bid preparation. The
 faculty also benefits from one Enterprise Development Manager and one Research
 Development Officer. An Impact Development Officer assists researchers during the early
 stages of project development, and provides support throughout the research and dissemination
 process.

 The university has made significant capital investments in this cycle, including the new £84
 million Stockwell Street building, which has ample reference and study space for research staff
 and students, including dedicated office space and bookable small meeting rooms for PGR
 students as well as small group, video conferencing and display facilities suitable for hosting
 large conferences. Stockwell Street also houses the University Archive, which is overseen by
 the university’s Archive Steering Group and chaired by a member of the HRG, and includes
 valuable digitised resources, notably a successful collaboration with the Wellcome Library. The
 archive provides valuable placement and internship opportunities for our students while also
 contributing to the wider research environment.

 The new university library provides state-of-the-art facilities, with one of the largest collections of
 electronic books and journals in the UK. In the current cycle, more than £150,000 has been
 invested in books, electronic books and journals for History and cognate disciplines. There is a
 dedicated School librarian who provides tailored support and training for students and staff. The
 unit’s record of published outputs, including full text of journal papers and other outputs are
 maintained within the university’s digital archive, GALA, consistent with the university’s
 commitment to open access publication.
 I
 mportantly, as Section 4 demonstrates, our London base allows us to participate in the vibrant
 academic life of the city. As a small group, this is hugely beneficial enabling us to contribute to
 and benefit from the many seminars, networks and events which sustain the discipline and the
 research environment.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations are key to our research and impact strategies, as well as to the teaching,
 engagement and knowledge exchange which our collective expertise makes possible. The
 group’s contributions to the research base, economy and society reflect our strategic
 commitment to supporting high-quality research in a modern, research-informed university.


                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our collaborations, academic citizenship and public engagement is resourced annually by
 internal QR funding and recognition in workload as well as through external income. As a result,
 group members are supported to be active within the wider discipline to make significant
 contributions to the research base by:

    •   Writing and publishing scholarly work: in addition to 30+ peer-reviewed, research
        outputs, group members have contributed eleven chapters to student-focussed
        textbooks, anthologies, collections during the current cycle, including Pennell for the
        Routledge Handbook of Material Culture in early modern Europe (2017) and the
        Routledge Companion to the History of Retailing (2019); Rand for the Routledge
        Handbook of the History of Colonialism in South Asia (forthcoming, 2021); Eustance for
        the Routledge Companion to British Women's Suffrage (forthcoming, 2021).
    •   Editorship for journals, special issues and book series, including: Childhood in the
        Past (Martin), Environment and History, The London Journal (Taylor), Vakanüvis
        (Talbot), West 86th (Pennell). Rand is founding co-editor for Routledge’s ‘War and
        Society in South Asia’ book series.
    •   Participating on grants and funding committees as peer reviewers for, amongst
        others, the AHRC Peer Review College (Taylor), the Austrian National Research Funding
        Body, ESRC, Netherlands VIDI programme (Pennell) and the National Research
        Foundation, South Africa (Carolan).
    •   Refereeing for academic and trade publishers including during this cycle:
        Bloomsbury, Palgrave Macmillan and Routledge, and the university presses of
        Cambridge, Liverpool, Manchester, Oxford and Yale. We regularly referee for leading
        national and international journals, including Annales. Histoire, Sciences Sociales,
        Historical Journal, Archiv Orientalni, Studies in Ethnicity and Nationalism, History of
        Education, Childhood in the Past, Journal of Historical Geography and Social History of
        Medicine, and have published 16 book reviews in American Historical Review, English
        Historical Review, History Today, Al-Masaq and Bulletin of the School of Oriental and
        African Studies, War in History; Journal of Military History; Childhood in the Past and
        Food and History; International Journal of Maritime History.

 Since 2014, members of the group have delivered more than 110 papers and presentations, and
 have spoken at 36 international events in 16 countries. We have further contributed to the
 research base by:

    •   Organising conferences, seminars and workshops, including four international,
        interdisciplinary conferences: Martin for the biennial Children’s History Society
        conferences (2016, 2018); Rand, in collaboration with Professor Kaushik Roy (Jadavpur
        University), for BA-funded international symposia at Greenwich and Kolkata (2014);
        Talbot’s collaboration in Ramallah with the A.M. Qattan Foundation (2019); Taylor for
        AHRC-funded workshop in Munich, co-organised with the Rachel Carson Center (RCC)
        and Deutsches Museum (2017). Group members also co-convene successful seminar
        series, including ‘Life-cycles’ and ‘Education in the Long 18th Century’ (Martin); ‘Studies
        at Home’ (Pennell, to 2020); the Caird Library Research Seminars, convened by the
        Greenwich Maritime Centre and National Maritime Museum, and the Environment &
        History series organised in conjunction with the Raphael Samuel History Centre (Taylor).
    •   Supporting and developing academic networks: Martin is a Co-Founding Director of
        the Children’s History Society, UK. Pennell is co-Director of the IEHCA Summer
        University (Institut europeen d'histoire culinaire et alimentaire). Rand is a founding
        committee member of the Society for the History of War and formerly Councillor for the
        Army Records Society. Talbot is a trustee of the British Institute at Ankara and of the
        British Community Council of Istanbul. Taylor is a member of the Raphael Samuel
        History Centre team.

 Members of the group have also examined 12 doctoral degrees since 2014 for Birmingham,
 KCL, Leicester, QMUL, Bristol, Birkbeck, amongst others, as well as examining for


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 undergraduate and taught postgraduate programmes at Cambridge, Derby, KCL, Kent,
 Kingston, Oxford Brookes and the ITMO University, St Petersburg.

 Our contributions to the research base and the wider discipline are recognised via the following
 Fellowships: Pennell and Talbot are Fellows of the Royal Historical Society; Talbot also of the
 Royal Asiatic Society; Carolan, Eustance, Pennell, Talbot and Taylor are Fellows of the HEA;
 Rand is Senior Fellow of the HEA.

 Members of HRG regularly use their research and expertise to engage with diverse communities
 and publics, supporting a range of research users and beneficiaries, locally, nationally and
 internationally, including inter alia Battersea Arts Centre, the Cumbria Museum of Military Life,
 Greenpeace, the Leytonstone Historical Society, the National Army Museum, the National
 Farmers Union, the V&A Museum of Childhood, the Vegan Society, Woolwich Library and the
 Working Class Movement Library in Salford.

 Illustrative examples of this work include: Eustance is a regular speaker on women’s rights and
 gender equality to the Foreign and Commonwealth Office’s Chevening Scholars programme
 (2018-). Talbot spoke to the European Institute of the Mediterranean in Barcelona on late
 Ottoman refugees as context for the current Mediterranean refugee crisis (2018). Taylor
 presented to the Policy Forum for London’s ‘Next Steps for Growth in the Thames Estuary’
 (2019) and the Women and Energy workshop in Munich (2019). Rand is an invited, expert
 member of a committee advising the Commonwealth War Graves Commission on the
 commemoration of colonial and Commonwealth soldiers (2020-).

 Members’ work regularly supports and features in broadcast media, including, since 2014 for the
 BBC (Who Do You Think You Are?; The Great British Bake-Off’; The Week in Parliament;
 Suffragette Allies; Women’s Hour; Free Thinking; The Essay) and for Netflix’s Empires Rising:
 Ottoman, for which Talbot was lead historical consultant and contributor. Social media provides
 further vehicles to disseminate work and engage beneficiaries, for example, via the popular
 ‘Ottoman History Podcast’ (Talbot as editor & regular contributor) and through appearances
 including: Gastropod.com podcast (Pennell); Historical Association ‘Women’s Suffrage Project’
 podcast (Eustance) and Early Modern Recipes Online Collective ‘transcribathon’ (Pennell).
 Members of the team also maintain an active Twitter presence, with a collective following well in
 excess of 10,000.

 HRG members collaborate with and support the cultural, museum and heritage sectors,
 harnessing research expertise to benefit partners and collaborators as well as to enrich the
 environment for our research students and undergraduates. Through this, group members have
 acted as partners and advisors to successful funding bids worth a total value of £2 million.

 Highlights include: Pennell and Taylor supervised a fully funded Vice Chancellor’s PhD
 scholarship examining the Hawksmoor-built St Alfege Church (Greenwich), which contributed to
 the successful ‘Heart of Greenwich’ National Lottery Heritage Fund (NLHF) bid, worth more than
 £1.8 million, and to the co-discovery of a drawing by Sir James Thornhill in the RGHT archives.

 Pennell’s collaboration with the Greenwich Heritage team at Charlton House supported a
 conservation funding application to Historic England (£47,000), as well as practice-based
 teaching and work placements for Greenwich students. Pennell has also provided expertise to
 support funding-raising and widening access at Handel/Hendrix (London).

 Rand collaborated with Greenwich-based performing arts company Nutkhut, for the NLHF-
 funded ‘Never Set Eyes on the Land’ project (worth c. £150,000), which engaged citizen
 historians, including undergraduate and postgraduate students, to produce an educational toolkit
 and exhibition on the partition of India. Eustance curated the ‘Suffragettes in Trousers’ exhibition
 as part of the Houses of Parliament Vote 100 project (Houses of Parliament, 2017) and
 collaborated with Culture Clash Theatre on the ‘Beyond the Suffragettes’ project.


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Talbot’s work with the Palestine Exploration Fund (PEF) has delivered a series of public
 engagement initiatives, including an AHRC-funded ‘Being Human’ event on the history of
 Palestine and the ‘Palestine from the Sky’ collaboration in Ramallah, funded by the A.M. Qattan
 Foundation, which lead to a special issue of The Jerusalem Quarterly, published in 2020.

 Martin is a founding member of the Waltham Forest History and Heritage Network, co-organising
 numerous events during Waltham Forest’s year as the first London Borough of Culture (2019)
 and contributing to the community arts festival ‘E17 Art Trail’. Martin is also a Trustee of the
 Pollock's Toy Museum Trust and advised the Rachel Macmillan Nursery School on an NLHF bid
 (worth c. £55,000).

 As these examples demonstrate, the group’s work is characterised by our endeavours towards
 community-building, at all levels, from campus to partners across the globe, to create and
 disseminate knowledge to educate and inspire. Though we are a small group, our research,
 collaborations and impacts demonstrate the value and importance of supporting excellent
 research in an engaged, modern university.




                                                                                          Page 11
