Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Manchester

 Unit of assessment: 33B (Music, Drama, Dance Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies)

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1. Context and Structure
 The Music Department at Manchester has a wide-ranging research profile, comprising four
 principal strengths: instrumental and vocal composition, electroacoustic composition and
 interactive media, musicology, and ethnomusicology. Performance and live music-making
 are integral to all four areas, resulting in a distinctive, dynamic fusion of theoretical and
 practice-based investigation. During the census period we have addressed issues of
 sustainability by appointing four new early-career colleagues, allowing the unit to expand
 from 14 to 15 full-time academic staff, with the newly-established position held by Gagatsis
 as practice-based researcher in jazz studies strengthening the fundamental role of
 performance within our research. We now have nine staff working primarily in musicology
 and/or ethnomusicology (Alaghband-Zadeh, Bithell, Cooper, Fanning, Gagatsis, Garratt,
 Hawkins, Herissone, Hyland, plus Rutherford, retired January 2020), and six in
 composition (Berezan, Climent, Grange, Malone, Reeves, Whalley).

 Our key strategic achievements since REF2014 include:
  Developing an increasingly interdisciplinary and collaborative research profile, with wide-
   ranging research partnerships and a strategic emphasis on thematically-focused activities
   in our core research areas
  Maximising the impact of our research through new collaborations with industry,
   healthcare, cultural and community partners
  Receiving recognition of our researchers and outputs across all our key specialisms
   through international prizes, awards, commissions and accolades including election of a
   Fellow to the British Academy
  Increasing our overall external grant capture by 128%, with 77% increase in HESA-
   registered funding
  Supervising 48 PhD students to completion, increased from 37 in the previous period

  The Department’s enhanced emphasis on outward-facing research activities is demonstrated
  by our significant shift towards research involving interdisciplinary academic collaborations –
  strengthened institutionally by our positioning within the School of Arts, Languages and
  Cultures (SALC) – and with an increasingly diverse range of industry, healthcare, cultural
  and community partners. These collaborations have been developed strategically within a
  more formalised research structure in which our research centre for innovation in sound and
  interactive art, NOVARS, has been joined by two newly established interdisciplinary research
  groups. These are complemented by our focus on seven core research areas through which
  staff working in different sub-disciplinary contexts explore shared themes, stimulating both
  individual and collaborative research activities.

 Our staff sustain high levels of national and international research activity, disseminated via
 both traditional and contemporary routes. Our impact strategy has focused on expanding the
 range and reach of our public-facing activities: our research continues to influence non-
 academic beneficiaries including professional performers, leisure-time music-makers,
 concert-goers, teachers and pupils, but now also benefits new partners working in health and
 wellbeing, community music, the computer-game industry and tourism. We have maintained
 our contribution to the sustainability of the discipline by increasing recruitment to our PhD
 programmes and by our staff members’ extensive contributions to academic service and
 national-level leadership.


                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.2. Research and Impact Strategy
 1.2.1. Implementation of 2014 Research and Impact Objectives
 In developing the four key objectives outlined in our REF2014 submission we have placed
 particular emphasis on enhancing our strategic planning and collaborative activity, in
 response to panel feedback, as follows:

  To continue to place a high priority on enabling staff to produce and publish internationally
  leading research in musicology, composition and performance
 This objective has been addressed through a renewed emphasis on quality over quantity,
 and by targeting dissemination modes that maximise the audience reach of our research.
 Our musicologists and ethnomusicologists have published monographs, critical editions,
 edited books and book chapters with leading academic presses, and peer-reviewed articles
 in highly rated journals. Highlights include: Bithell’s influential open-access OUP monograph
 A Different Voice, A Different Song (see Impact Case Study ‘Singing for Life’); Garratt’s
 interdisciplinary CUP monograph, Music and Politics; and Herissone’s book chapter and
 edition outlining the discovery of a lost piece by Henry Purcell. Our composers have
 produced outputs commissioned by high-profile organisations, with multiple performances
 across 28 countries. These include two BBC commissions – Grange’s violin concerto and
 Reeves’s Light Speed with Time Canons; Malone’s Violin Concerto, part of a double
 commission from Opera North; Berezan’s Nautical Cycle and its single-composer
 commercial CD for Empreintes DIGITALes; and Climent’s S.laag, awarded the International
 Computer Music Association’s 2016 European Region Award. The quality of our research is
 evidenced by many markers of international recognition, including multiple keynote
 invitations; dedicated single-composer concerts and featured-composer status at major
 festivals; the appointment of six colleagues to prestigious positions, fellowships or
 residencies; and the awarding of major international prizes to three colleagues (see Section
 4.4).

 To place particular emphasis on developing collaborative research activities
 Since REF2014 our principal strategic objective has been to enhance our collaborative
 research relationships within and beyond the University. We have established two
 interdisciplinary research groups: Music, Health and Wellbeing (Bithell) brings together
 Manchester academics and practitioners working in a range of community, educational and
 healthcare settings, while States of Flux (led by Hawkins, following his earlier co-leadership
 of the Sonic Cultures Research Group for the interdisciplinary study of music, sound and
 culture) investigates knowledge of ‘the contemporary’ in art and culture since 1970. The
 activities of the NOVARS Research Centre (Climent, Berezan) have diversified, with
 innovative research on live interactive applications for composition leading to new
 partnerships in academia and with the technology, tourism and cultural industries (see
 Impact Case Study ‘Sonic Adventures’). We have also continued to develop collaborative
 projects in performance studies featuring the Danel String Quartet, Fanning and Cooper
 and interactive creative work involving our composition staff and associated contemporary
 ensembles (see Section 4.2).

 We have further developed our departmental research structures by focusing on seven core
 research areas that allow Music staff to explore shared research interests from the
 contrasting perspectives of their different subdisciplines. These are: Creative and Performing
 Practices; Sound, Space and Interactive Art; Politics, Protest and Power; Nationalism,
 Mobility and Identity; Historically and Culturally Informed Analysis; Critical Reception Studies;
 and Intercultural Musicking. The core research areas shape the programme for our weekly
 Thursday research afternoons, with themed sessions involving distinguished invited
 specialist speakers and round-table discussions incorporating staff and postgraduates,
 paving the way for intra- and cross-institutional collaborations with both intellectual and
 creative research outcomes. The research afternoons also feature more traditional research
 presentations, alongside performance and composition workshops delivered by our resident
                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 ensembles and visiting artists.


 To ensure sustainability in staffing through the appointment of junior [ECR] staff
 We have met this objective by appointing four early-career colleagues, enabling us both to
 sustain existing areas of specialism (appointing Hyland as Lecturer in Music Analysis), and
 to develop our strategic focus on contemporary musicology and interdisciplinary
 collaborations: Hawkins works on new complexity and the social impact of technology on
 listening practices, Alaghband-Zadeh researches the music and contemporary listening
 practices of North India and the South-Asian diaspora, and Gagatsis investigates jazz
 improvisation from the perspective of embodied knowledge and spatial navigation. All four
 appointments have enriched our core research areas and collaborative activities (see
 Section 2.1).

 To develop existing strengths in academic outreach, placing a growing emphasis on
 knowledge transfer and impact
 Since REF2014 we have extended and diversified our impact activities significantly, with a
 strategic focus on five areas of activity (detailed in Section 4.2). Three expand areas
 established in the previous assessment period:
 1. We have continued to host public events emerging from Fanning’s Weinberg project
       and Cooper’s Beethoven research (both Impact Case Studies in REF2014), and from
       our MANTIS (Manchester Theatre in Sound) festivals. In addition, we have diversified
       the pathways through which our research is made available to the public via Bithell’s
       community-singing research, and Garratt’s research project ‘Organ Music from the
       Great War’, disseminated via online communities.
 2. Our musicologists’ critical editions have continued to influence music educators and
       their pupils, and we have initiated new composer-led projects using music to engage
       school pupils in other aspects of their learning, working with colleagues in Engineering
       (Reeves) and Business Management (Climent).
 3. We have continued our consultancy work for professional performers, including in
       Fanning’s and Cooper’s advisory roles for Weinberg and Beethoven performances and
       Herissone’s on her reconstruction of Purcell’s Come ye Sons of Art and rediscovery of
       a lost piece by Purcell.
 Two newly developed areas form the basis of our Impact Case Studies:
 4. Climent’s research has led to new engagement with the technology sector to develop
       software applications arising from his creative work using geolocative technology; this
       has resulted in two spin-off companies and has had impact on creative artists and the
       culture and tourism industries.
 5. Bithell’s work has engaged with community musicians and choral educators, enriching
       their professional practice and providing a theoretical framework to support musical
       interventions in community and healthcare settings.

 1.2.2. Future Research and Impact Strategy
 Our strategic objectives beyond 2021 build upon our focus on collaborative and
 interdisciplinary research and seek to enrich further the societal impact of our work. We will
 concentrate on three main strands:

 To increase our involvement in large-scale externally funded research projects, developing
 our cutting-edge interdisciplinary and collaborative research activity
 We will strengthen our support for the production of outstanding research outputs, using our
 successfully-established infrastructure of research groups and core research areas alongside
 existing mechanisms offering individual research advice and mentoring, to deliver
 collaborative projects that increase the reach, range and impact of our research. We will
 build on our success in attracting external research funding for projects involving practice-
 based research in composition by continuing to work strategically with partners on
                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 interdisciplinary project bids. The efficacy of this policy is exemplified by the recent research
 on public protest and climate justice by members of our Politics, Protest and Power core
 research area, leading to Malone’s role as Co-I on the 24-month practice-based project
 ‘Community Climate Resilience through Folk Pageantry’, awarded £329,915 by the AHRC in
 July 2020. Projects are also being developed through strategic targeting of seed-corn funding
 for pilot studies (see Section 3.2): within the Creative and Performing Practices group,
 Berezan completed an internally funded pilot in 2020 for Sound Runner – a practice-based
 collaboration with sports psychologists exploring how responses to sound may be harnessed
 to improve physical performance in sport; within the Historically and Culturally Informed
 Analysis group Hyland has undertaken preliminary archival work for a project on the
 Viennese string quartet with external funding from the British Academy/Leverhulme small-
 grants scheme, and has also secured internal funding for 2020–21 to pilot her international
 collaboration with Steven Vande Moortele of Toronto University, 'Towards a Micro-Theory of
 Romantic Form in Viennese Music, 1815–28’; within the Intercultural Musicking group,
 Alaghband-Zadeh applied in November 2020 for external seed-corn funding for her planned
 ECR project exploring musical identity in performance within Manchester’s South-Asian
 communities; and within the Critical Reception Studies group, Herissone is preparing a large
 project bid to trace the construction of meaning in the posthumous reception of Henry Purcell
 and his music within a nationalist narrative.

 To focus pro-actively on research that has a positive impact on a broad range of non-
 academic beneficiaries
 We will optimise the public value of our research by building on the successful expansion of
 our impact activities in this REF cycle, particularly the fruitful relationships we have
 developed with practitioners working in community and healthcare settings via Bithell’s
 research and Music, Health and Wellbeing group and our partnerships with the cultural and
 technology industries developed through Climent’s and Berezan’s interactive composition
 research. We will cultivate new links with local communities through Malone’s involvement in
 the AHRC-funded climate-resilience project and Alaghband-Zadeh’s South-Asian diasporas
 project. These initiatives will help shape a more formal strategic plan for successful long-term
 relationships with an expanding cohort of partners, with particular emphasis on Greater
 Manchester as an exemplary site of cultural production that can inform new research
 paradigms.

 To demonstrate strong commitment to an open research environment, and to adopting
 transformative equality and diversity policies for staff and students
 Building on our commitment to the University’s Open Access strategies (articulated in REF5a
 Section 2.7), and our contributions to the development of national OA strategies (see Section
 4.3), we will work to increase the accessibility of our research to both academic and non-
 academic beneficiaries. This will be achieved through applications to external funding
 schemes incorporating gold-access funding for publications, alongside the University’s
 dedicated open-access funds. We will continue to use internet-based streaming channels to
 mount free-to-access recordings of our creative work and other resources wherever
 copyright restrictions permit. We will also ensure that the progress we have made towards
 greater equality of representation in our staff profile and research activities during this census
 period continues (see Section 2.3), so that our work reflects more fully the great variety of
 interactions between music and society in the contemporary world. We will continue to work
 with colleagues in SALC to implement the University’s Equality and Diversity Action Plan
 (see REF5a Section 3.2) and the strategies outlined here in Section 2.3 in order to
 encourage enhanced access to the field.




                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Section 2. People
  2.1. Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
  2.1.1. Recruitment Strategy
  During the census period the Music Department expanded from 14 to 15 permanent
  lecturers, all on full-time teaching-and-research contracts. We have maintained strong
  continuity within our staff base, with just two colleagues moving to other institutions (Laura
  Tunbridge to Oxford in 2014 and Thomas Schmidt to Huddersfield in 2017) and one retiring
  within this period (Rutherford, 2020). Our success in both retention and promotion has
  resulted in a shift towards a greater proportion of senior staff: between 2014 and 2020 six
  colleagues were promoted from Senior Lecturer to Professor (Climent, Herissone, Reeves,
  Bithell, Ruther-ford and Garratt), while Malone was promoted to Reader and Whalley to
  Senior Lecturer.
  Accordingly, our recruitment strategy has been to address issues of sustainability by
  prioritising early-career appointments, as well as expanding expertise within our core
  research areas, strengthening synergies between our specialist areas, and extending our
  collaborative and interdisciplinary research potential. The University’s investment in the
  Department has enabled us to make four permanent appointments, including one newly-
  established post. Hyland’s specialism in historicist approaches to nineteenth-century
  musical analysis adds a new strand to our core research areas in Historically and Culturally
  Informed Analysis and Critical Reception Studies. Alaghband-Zadeh has brought new
  opportunities for partnerships with Manchester’s South-Asian diasporic communities, adding
  a new strand to our Intercultural Musicking group and to Nationalism, Mobility and Identity.
  Hawkins has helped develop our research in Creative and Performing Practices and Critical
  Reception Studies by creating an interdisciplinary network for contemporary art and culture
  and by facilitating dialogue on contemporary creativity between our composers and
  musicologists. Gagatsis’s specialisms in jazz, improvisation and performer psychology bring
  fresh perspectives to our Creative and Performing Practices research and are fundamental
  to forthcoming collaborative projects with staff in the Faculty of Biology, Medicine and Health.

  Our externally funded postdoctoral researchers have made valuable contributions to our core
  research areas since REF2014. Chornik’s three-year Leverhulme project ‘Sounds of
  Memory: Music and Political Activity in Pinochet’s Chile’ (2013–16) culminated in the
  publication of her extensive digital archive of music connected to centres for political
  detention and torture in Pinochet’s Chile (https://www.cantoscautivos.org/en/), and was
  aligned with concerns fundamental to our Politics, Protest and Power group. Patsiaoura’s
  project ‘Musicking in the Spirit: Worship, Community and the Making of Locality among
  Nigerian Pentecostals in the Diaspora’, the focus of an eight-month internship funded by the
  São Paulo Research Foundation in 2019, reinforced connections between our Intercultural
  Musicking group and Campinas’ Local Musicking research group. We expect the 2020
  appointment of Chan to a three-year Leverhulme ECR fellowship for ‘False Relations: Music
  and the Rhetoric of Dissonance in Early Modern Europe’, to bring valuable interdisciplinary
  perspectives to the Historically and Culturally Informed Analysis group.

  2.1.2. Staff Development Strategy
  All staff complete a Personal Research Expectations Plan (PREP) annually, meeting with the
  Departmental Research Co-ordinator to reflect on their research plans and identify priorities
  and support needs. The Co-ordinator provides advice on research outcomes, external grant
  applications, cultivating research networks, and impact activity, and mutually agreed targets
  are set. The University’s annual Research Review Exercise (RRE) involves rigorous peer
  review of colleagues’ published outputs. All colleagues on probationary contracts receive
  individual peer mentoring to facilitate strategic planning of their research and provide
  guidance on outputs and grant applications. This support is extended to all early-career
  researchers, as well as other colleagues identified through PREP as likely beneficiaries.
  Membership of our core research areas also enables early-career staff to benefit from the

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  guidance and experience of senior colleagues.

  Newly-appointed lecturers normally complete a four-year probationary period, during which
  they have reduced teaching and administrative loads and receive formal training via the
  Humanities New Academics Programme (HNAP), including five full units addressing
  research-career development. Probationers receive mentoring from an appointed senior
  colleague within the Department in addition to the guidance provided by the Research Co-
  ordinator and SALC’s research-training structures for ECRs.

  All staff members contracted to undertake research have an annual research allowance of
  £1,000, increased from £600 p.a. available for REF2014. SALC’s research-grant writing
  support officers advise on external grant schemes and applications; bespoke support for
  developing knowledge exchange and impact activities is also given by the School’s
  Associate Director for Research Impact and Knowledge Exchange and Impact Officer
  alongside the University’s Business Engagement team (see Section 3.2). The Faculty of
  Humanities Researcher Development Framework offers an annual programme of
  researcher-led training designed to share experience and best practice. All staff undertake
  compulsory research-integrity training and projects involving human subjects undergo ethical
  review to ensure they are designed and managed appropriately. Staff involved in recruitment
  and management also complete unconscious bias and equality-and-diversity training.

  Staff in SALC may apply for one semester’s Institutional Research Leave (IRL) after six
  semesters of regular service; the timing of IRL may be adjusted by one semester according
  to planning needs. In addition, Supplementary Research Leave (SRL), and Professorial
  Enhanced Research Leave (PERL) have been available during the current cycle to enable
  the completion of high-quality research outputs. During the period 2014–20 Herissone and
  Hyland were awarded SRL and Grange PERL.

  2.2. Research Students
  2.2.1. Recruitment and Completion
  At a challenging time for the recruitment of doctoral research students, Music has succeeded
  in increasing its postgraduate research community, supervising 48 PhD students (42.9 FTE)
  through to completion in the period 2014–20, as against 37 in REF2014. We have enjoyed
  high success rates in external funding competitions, with 13 students funded through the
  AHRC or ESPRC North West Consortium Doctoral Training Partnership. A further 7 are
  funded by University studentships, and 13 are supported by Music’s own doctoral bursaries,
  funded through endowments. Thus 70% of our PGRs are funded students. Between the
  admission of the 2011 cohort and the 2013 cohort full-time completion rates in the Faculty
  improved from 70% to 77.6%, while the average completion rate for Music was 78%. The
  success of our recruitment policy is demonstrated by the 13 former doctoral students who
  have been appointed to academic posts during the census period, 8 in the UK and 5
  internationally. Our recruitment is overseen by the Faculty’s PGR Strategy Group and
  Postgraduate Research Committee, which address equality-and-diversity challenges, and
  monitor progress and completion rates.

  2.2.2. Progress Monitoring and Support Mechanisms
  Our PGR admissions processes ensure that doctoral project outlines are developed in
  consultation with prospective supervisors before a formal application is submitted. Admitted
  students receive fortnightly supervisions with their main supervisor. Their progress is
  supported by the University’s continuous monitoring programme, eProg and by formal
  progression panels, which take place biannually with their full supervisory team (main
  supervisor and 2 other academics providing complementary expertise) assessing submitted
  work and research plans, providing feedback to the student, and making formal
  recommendations for progression. Panels are frequently interdisciplinary, and during the
  census period staff in Music have contributed to panels for 12 PhD students registered in 10
                                                                                          Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  other Departments: Drama, Creative Writing, Cultural Practices, French, German, Russian,
  History, Philosophy, Social Anthropology and Theology.

  2.2.3. Skills Development and Careers Training
  All new doctoral students complete a skills audit to identify key training needs. SALC’s
  Associate Director for Research: PGR is responsible for delivering this training through two
  main channels: Artsmethods@manchester, which focuses on theoretical and technical
  training, and the Graduate School, which emphasises professional skills and careers
  development. Doctoral students may also audit Masters’ modules for training in specific
  skills. This is supplemented by the Faculty of Humanities Researcher Development
  programme. Subject-specific training is provided by the AHRC and Northwest Consortium
  Doctoral Training Partnership and by national bodies including the Royal Musical Association
  (RMA) and the Institute of Music Research (IMR); Bithell’s role as co-convenor of the IMR
  study day ‘The Ethics and Aesthetics of Studying Music in Situations of Conflict
  and Violence’ (2018) is one example of the Department’s contribution to national-level
  graduate research training. We also support students in gaining places on research-focused
  summer schools, such as the International Doctoral Workshop in Ethnomusicology
  (University of Hildesheim), or in taking up placements as part of their AHRC-funded
  programme. Our Thursday research afternoons provide a weekly focus for all postgraduate
  students, offering training in research methodologies and presentation skills. Students may
  apply to the School for up to £400 per year to support research training and conference
  attendance, and up to £3,000 towards fieldwork expenses; they also receive an allowance
  for printing and library costs.

  The extensive services and resources of the University’s Careers Service are complemented
  by the Department’s own music-specific careers events. Professional development is integral
  to our PhD in Composition, with students working closely with the BBC Philharmonic
  Orchestra and other professional ensembles and benefiting from the exceptionally rich
  musical life of the city and its many cultural institutions.

  2.3. Equality and Diversity
  The University is strongly committed to ensuring equality of opportunity for all staff and
  students (see REF5a Section 3.2). The Faculty of Humanities Equality and Diversity Working
  Group is responsible for implementing Equality and Diversity Action Plans, and for
  monitoring staff gender and ethnicity profiles in recruitment and promotion. SALC offers
  targeted support to under-represented groups for training for leadership roles and for
  promotion applications. Within Music, further support for career development and promotion
  applications is embedded within the voluntary Performance and Development Review (PDR)
  process. The Department’s commitment to EDI issues is demonstrated by our contributions
  to national disciplinary initiatives (see Section 4.3).

  Our new appointments and promotions have allowed us to make progress towards improving
  the diversity and gender representation of our staffing profile. The appointments of Hyland
  and Alghband-Zadeh increased the proportion of women among our staff from 28.6% to
  33.3% and the personal chairs awarded to Herissone, Bithell and Rutherford introduced
  the Department’s first female professors. At the census date our staffing profile comprised 9
  professors (7 male, 2 female, plus Rutherford before her retirement), 1 reader (male), 1
  senior lecturer (male) and 4 lecturers (2 female, 2 male). We maintain a strong international
  profile, with colleagues from Canada, the USA, Spain, Greece and Ireland alongside UK
  nationals. While BAME representation remains an area requiring further progress, our new
  appointments have resulted in the proportion of Departmental staff from BAME backgrounds
  rising to 6.7% during the census period.

  The Department facilitates equality of opportunity in research for all its staff and research
  students through broader procedures, including support for staff on fixed-term teaching-only
                                                                                           Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  contracts offered via mentoring and a Departmental Research Development Fund. Those
  with caring responsibilities are assisted by SALC’s fund for Carer Support for Research-
  Related Professional Development, which covers a proportion of care costs to enable staff
  members to attend conferences. The University’s strategies for managing leave periods
  necessitated by ill-health, parental responsibilities or career breaks involve targeted
  Departmental and professional support upon return to work; staff returning from parental
  leave may also apply for an additional semester of research leave through the Academic
  Returners Leave Scheme. Flexible Working procedures allow staff to request changes to
  their employment conditions due to caring commitments or ill-health (alongside requests for
  reasonable adjustment). During the census period 4 staff members in Music been permitted
  such adjustments.

  The Department places a high premium on the wellbeing of all its staff and students. All
  members of the University may access an extensive programme of activities for wellbeing,
  complementing the professional support services offered by the Counselling Service. Further
  sources of support include the LGBT Staff Network and LGBTQ+ Student Society. Doctoral
  students may also access a range of bespoke resources through the Graduate School Well-
  being Hub and the PGR Well Bee-ing Project. The Department makes a significant
  contribution to this University-wide provision for wellbeing through its free lunchtime
  concerts, Music on Campus outreach initiative and Singing for Wellbeing workplace choir.


 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
  3.1. Research Funding
  During the census period Music secured £841,447 in grants from external funders. This
  includes £590,148 in income from major HESA-registered funders, increasing by 77% the
  £333,394 received from them during the 2014 census period. Our strategies for increasing
  Music’s involvement in collaborative and interdisciplinary research projects (see Section 1.2)
  have enabled us to construct new avenues for grant capture by becoming partners in large-
  scale projects funded by UK research councils and the European commission. This has
  been particularly beneficial to our practice-based research in composition, for which external
  research funding is traditionally difficult to obtain. We have had three significant successes.
  Grange’s contribution as co-investigator in the three-year £3.9m AHRC Open World
  Research Initiative award, ‘Cross-Language Dynamics: Reshaping Community’ (2017–20)
  had as its major research outcome the opera Daedalus, originally due to be premiered by
  Constella Opera at the Tête-à-tête Festival in August 2020, but now to be produced for
  August 2021 due to Covid-19 delays. Of the £956,275 distributed to the University of
  Manchester, £94,763 was apportioned to Prof. Grange’s part of the project. Second,
  Climent and Berezan were co-investigators in the European Union award for the European
  Art-Science-Technology Network for Digital Creativity (EASTN-DC) (2017–20), with £82,204
  allocated to Manchester; research outcomes included compositions and impact-related
  activities aimed at educators, business and the cultural industries. Finally, the award in July
  2020 of £329,915 for the two-year project ‘Community Climate Resilience through Folk
  Pageantry’ via the AHRC’s UK Climate Resilience Programme includes £123,462 for
  Malone’s practice-based contribution to the project, which will culminate in a community
  performance in 2022. The census period also saw the conclusion of Schmidt’s AHRC
  project ‘Production and Reading of Music Sources’; of the £220,802 allocated to Manchester
  as co-host, £53,348 was apportioned during 2014.

  Alongside our involvement in large-scale collaborative projects, Music has continued to
  target external funding schemes that enable the completion of individual research projects. A
  substantial proportion of this funding has come from the Arts Council and other non-
  research-council funders, which is therefore not reported in Higher Education Statistics
  Agency returns. This research activity falls into three main categories:

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  1.   Leverhulme Trust Fellowships: Rutherford was awarded a Leverhulme Major
       Research Fellowship (2016–19, £150,601) for her project ‘A History of Voices: Singing
       in Britain 1690 to the Present Day’. The Department also hosted Chornik’s Leverhulme
       Early Career Fellowship (2013–16, £69,000) and welcomes Chan from September
       2020, awarded £71,784 within the same scheme.
  2.   Small Research Grants (British Academy, Leverhulme and charitable
       foundations): British Academy/Leverhulme awards were made to Bithell to fund
       fieldwork for ‘Safeguarding and Transmission of Musical Heritage in Contemporary
       Georgia (Caucasus)’ in 2015–16 (£9,922), to Hyland for ‘Reconstructing the Viennese
       String Quartet, 1818–1830’ in 2016–17 (£6,834), and to Fanning to support the
       Weinberg conference hosted by the Department in January 2019 (£3,800). Fanning
       also received £23,000 from the Adam Mickiewicz Institute for this project, plus grants of
       £12,000 and £40,000 from the Nielsen Trust in 2017 to support his translations of
       letters and essays by Carl Nielsen. An award of £2,000 made to Hawkins by the Paul
       Sacher Foundation enabled him to undertake archive research on the Brian
       Ferneyhough Collection.
  3.   Funding from the Arts Council and charitable trusts to support practice-based
       research in composition: Malone’s opera project Mysterious 44 was supported in
       2015–16 by grants from Arts Council England (£14,735), the Richard Dawkins
       Foundation for Reason in Science (£5,400) and the Ida Carroll Trust (£1,000); his
       creative project with Opera-North, ‘A Day in the Life’, was supported by Arts Council
       England (£14,700), the Ida Carroll Trust (£1,000), the RVW Trust (£500), and
       Manchester’s Faculty of Humanities Strategic Investment Fund (£2,500); he was also
       co-investigator for ‘The Travelling Heritage Bureau’ project (2017–19), funded by a
       Heritage Lottery Fund award of £48,000. Grange was awarded £1,000 by the RVW
       Trust plus £10,000 from the University’s Investing in Success scheme in 2018 to
       support the Gemini Ensemble’s CD recording of his works for Metier, Homage. Works
       commissioned from Reeves by pianist Tom Hicks and the Solem Quartet, and by the
       Royal Albert Memorial Museum, Exeter and Devon Philharmonic Orchestra, were
       supported by awards from the Ida Carroll Trust (£1,000 in 2019; £750 in 2020) and Arts
       Council England (£1026; 2020); a recording of his piano music by Hicks was also
       facilitated by the Ida Carroll Trust (£500; 2020).

  Music’s strategies for enhancing grant capture centre on its structural facilitation of research
  collaborations via its research groups and core research areas, individual mentoring
  provided by the Research Co-ordinator, the annual PREP process, and the assistance
  offered by the School’s research-grant writing support team. To support our development of
  new large-scale research projects, we place particular strategic emphasis on targeting
  internal and external seed-corn funding schemes for pilot studies, with support for
  developing subsequent external bids provided via mentoring and peer review. Hyland’s
  British Academy/Leverhulme Small Research Grant, for example, provided the archival
  basis for a large project-grant bid currently in progress, while in July 2020 she was awarded
  a further £4,650 from the University of Manchester–University of Toronto Research Fund as
  pump priming for the international collaborative project outlined in Section 1.2.2 above.
  Similarly, Berezan’s award of £1,468 from the School’s Research Development and Support
  Fund enabled the pilot study for his planned large-scale practice-based sports psychology
  project Sound Runner (documented at https://vimeo.com/376886239).

  3.2. Infrastructure Supporting Research and Impact
  Since REF2014 the University has significantly increased its strategic and operational
  support for research. In SALC this is overseen by the Director of Research and the Research
  Support Office, who offer advice on the strategic planning of research via annual review
  meetings, and operational support in the management of externally funded projects. The
  research support team includes grant-writing support officers, an Associate Director of
  Research: Impact, and a Knowledge Exchange and Impact Officer. At Department level,
                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  strategic and personal research planning is led by the Research Co-ordinator, alongside a
  team of senior colleagues who act as research mentors and peer reviewers (see Section
  2.1.2). Postgraduate research students are supported by SALC’s Associate Director of
  Research: PGR and the Departmental Postgraduate Research Co-ordinator, who together
  provide strategic leadership in all areas of postgraduate research, including arts-specific
  research training, local-level administration and pastoral care.

  Financial support for research and impact activities is provided at University, Faculty and
  School levels. During the assessment period, in addition to the £12,500 internal funding
  awarded to Malone and Grange and the pump-priming awards totalling £6,118 made to
  Hyland and Berezan (see Section 3.1), Music has been awarded funding from the
  Humanities Strategic Investment Fund and SALC’s Impact Support Fund to develop our
  outreach activities and evaluate their impact (Bithell’s and Climent’s Impact Case Studies),
  while the School Strategic Fund supported the establishment of our Music, Health and
  Wellbeing research group (Bithell).

  Knowledge-exchange and impact activities are addressed structurally within the University’s
  Directorate of Research and Business Engagement, and the Office for Social Responsibility.
  The University’s Business Engagement Support Team has facilitated the development of
  links to the technology and cultural industries relating to Climent’s research on interactive
  game audio. The Cultural Events team at the Martin Harris Centre for Music and Drama has
  supported our public-engagement work relating to performance studies, including our
  Weinberg and Beethoven projects (Fanning and Cooper).

  Music’s practice-based research activities are supported by an estates’ infrastructure focused
  on the specialist rehearsal, practice and performance facilities of the Martin Harris Centre.
  These include the 350-seat Cosmo Rodewald Concert Hall, our professional performance
  and recording venue used by composition staff and students and for the 100+ public concerts
  we mount each year, which are key to our impact and engagement work. Our composition
  and performance researchers work closely with our resident string quartet, the Quatuor
  Danel, and with leading contemporary ensembles, including Psappha, Ensemble 10/10, the
  Vonnegut Collective, Distractfold and Trio Atem. Our award-winning Electroacoustic Music
  building includes three large research studios, a fourth multi-function studio, and a large
  studio cluster; equipment includes 32, 5.1 and 8-channel monitoring for sound-diffusion
  performance research and multi-channel composition, a Hordijk modular synthesizer
  system, Focusrite audio-over-IP devices, microphones and specialist software, which,
  together with our electronic diffusion system, Manchester Theatre in Sound (MANTIS), are
  fundamental to the research of Climent and Berezan and our electroacoustic composition
  postgraduates. The School provides an annual budget for equipment renewal, upgrading and
  maintenance, with technical support from a permanent, full-time technician.

  The scholarly infrastructure supporting our musicology and ethnomusicology research
  centres on Manchester’s research libraries: the University of Manchester Library, Lenagan
  Library (our specialist library for Music and Drama) and John Rylands Library (housing the
  University’s special collections); the Henry Watson Library in Manchester Central Library; and
  Chetham’s Library. The University of Manchester Library is notable for its thousands of
  historical and seminal recordings, its audio-visual collections, and its digital resources – the
  largest academic digital collection in Britain. It also offers tailored research support on data
  management, disseminating research and identifying impact. The city’s libraries house rare
  primary sources of music, including many music manuscripts and early printed scores held at
  the John Rylands Library, the internationally important collection of music manuscripts and
  prints at the Henry Watson Library, and the major collection of early-modern broadsides and
  song publications in Chetham’s Library. Highlights of our work with these sources include
  Berezan’s Sea Lantern sound installation at the John Rylands Library as part of the
  Manchester Science Festival in October 2017; composer Joshua Brown’s 2019–20
                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  postdoctoral Artist-in-Residence project, using archival material mapping Alan Turing’s
  research into computing patterns, funded by an award of £4,500 by the John Rylands
  Research Institute; and Herissone’s 2019 discovery of a set of handwritten annotations in
  the Henry Watson library’s copy of Henry Purcell’s 1691 opera The Prophetess.

 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
  4.1. Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
  The strategies we have put in place to achieve our objective of increasing our research
  collaborations have resulted in Music’s staff making substantial contributions both to major
  interdisciplinary research projects with wide international reach and significance and to the
  activities of our creative partners. These collaborations fall into four categories:
  1. The creative research of NOVARS (Climent, Berezan) centres on collaborations with
       interdisciplinary partners including specialists in technology, software and game
       development, and business management. Highlights include our participation in the
       EASTN-DC European Network, particularly the showcase for entrepreneurs and SMEs
       we hosted in 2018, and Climent’s establishment of the worldwide LocativeAudio
       network outlined in his Impact Case Study. Berezan’s collaboration with sports
       psychologist Costas Karageorghis (Brunel University) for the Sound Runner project has
       further extended the interdisciplinary reach of NOVARS’s research.
  2. A notable strategic success during the census period has been our acoustic composers’
       practice-based contributions to interdisciplinary projects (see Section 3.1), particularly
       Grange’s participation in the AHRC project ‘Cross-Language Dynamics: Reshaping
       Community’, where his case-study on the interlingual in contemporary opera has helped
       to reconceptualise the relationships between language and community. Malone has a
       strong track record of creative involvement in socio-cultural projects, including the
       2018–19 Opera North project commemorating Yorkshire mill workers, ‘A Day in the
       Life’, the 2019 Heritage-Lottery-funded project to empower displaced female artists,
       ‘The Travelling Heritage Bureau’, and the 2020–22 AHRC-funded Community Climate
       Resilience project. Our ethnomusicologists also contribute to socio-cultural
       collaborations, as in Alaghband-Zadeh’s involvement in the Loughborough University
       Leverhulme project ‘Migrant Memory and the Postcolonial Imagination’.
  3. The interests encompassed by our research groups have fostered further partnerships.
       Bithell’s research in Music, Health and Wellbeing, for example, has underpinned her
       supervision of a project on music therapy for people with early-onset dementia led by a
       University-funded Simon Industrial Fellow in collaboration with Manchester Camerata
       and the University’s Creative Manchester initiative, while Hawkins’s invited participation
       in a Leverhulme International Network, ‘Evaluating Methods of Aesthetic Enquiry across
       Disciplines’ (2015–18), informed the development of the States of Flux group.
  4. We have contributed our expertise to other externally-hosted international research
       networks. Herissone, for example, was invited in 2017 by Thomas LeConte (Versailles
       Centre de Musique Baroque) to co-convene a three-day symposium comparing early
       modern French and English court-chapel practices, while Rutherford was a key
       contributor to several opera and voice projects, including the ERC-funded ‘Music in
       London, 1800–1851’ project (2013–18), ‘Losing her Voice’, funded by the ‘Being
       Human’ festival (University of Nottingham, 2018), and the Leverhulme International
       Network ‘Reimagining italianità: Opera and Musical Culture in Transnational
       Perspective’ (2016–19).

  4.2. Development of Research Impact and Wider Contributions to Society
  The impact strategy we have developed since REF2014, summarised in Section 1.2.1, has
  produced an extensive portfolio of activities in five key areas:
  Enriching the cultural experiences of members of the public engaging with music as a
  leisure activity
  Our impact case studies for REF2014, ‘The Music of Weinberg’ (Fanning) and ‘A New Side

                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  to Beethoven’ (Cooper), focused on how we deploy our expertise to enhance the
  experiences of members of the public attending or participating in musical activities. Fanning
  and Cooper have continued their extensive engagement with public audiences during the
  current cycle, contributing numerous public lectures, pre-concert talks and study days,
  including in the US, South America and Europe; Fanning, for example, gave public
  interviews and broadcasts to accompany the Quatuor Danel’s international tour of
  Weinberg’s complete string quartets in 2019. Both also enrich public experience of
  professional performances by providing CD liner notes for prestigious labels including
  Deutsche Grammophon, Chandos and Hyperion, and programme notes for major UK and
  European festivals, orchestras and venues, including the BBC Proms, for which Cooper has
  written annually from 2014–19. Fanning also reviews regularly for the Daily Telegraph,
  Gramophone magazine and BBC Radio 3, while Cooper contributed to several radio and
  television features on Beethoven, including for the French channel Toute l’histoire, and the
  BBC Four series Being Beethoven in 2020.

  Our other musicologists have also given countless pre-concert talks and contributed to
  public study days, symposia and festivals in the UK, France, Russia, Poland, Chile and
  Brazil (Bithell, Herissone, Hyland, Rutherford). Rutherford has been particularly active in
  writing programme notes, including for six of the UK’s leading opera companies, and in
  contributing to BBC media broadcasts on opera and singing on Radios 3 and 4 (2014, 2017,
  2019), and BBC2 (2015, 2019). Our composers have regularly given public masterclasses
  and been tutors for creative workshops and summer schools across the world from Mexico
  and the USA to Korea, France and Ireland (Grange, Reeves, Whalley), as well as judging
  public composition competitions (Whalley, 2019 Ivor Composers’ Awards) and participating
  in immersive events, such as the 2018 project at Pendle Heritage Centre, Lancashire,
  inspired by the Pendle Witch Trials of 1612, for which Reeves was commissioned to write
  his three motets, Spells, Remedies and Potions.

  Since REF2014 we have diversified our contributions to public experiences of music-making
  through two new projects: Bithell’s Impact Case Study ‘Singing for Life’ outlines how her
  research on the natural-voice movement has had an international impact on professional
  practice and public participation in community singing, particularly through her work with the
  Natural Voice Network. Garratt’s innovative multi-media research project ‘Organ Music from
  the Great War’ (2014–18) brings together live performances and video recordings of largely
  unknown organ music, disseminated through a dedicated webpage and public YouTube
  channel (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCUx_XDvvLRvOn9iIMSbm6HA) that has
  attracted over 50,000 views and has led to Garratt acting as advisor for numerous
  individuals and organisations internationally, including St Paul’s Cathedral and the
  Kloosterkerk in the Hague.

  Enhancing learning through engaging with music educators and their pupils
  Cooper’s Impact Case Study for REF2014 outlined the substantial impact of his new
  performance edition of Beethoven’s 35 piano sonatas for the ABRSM. The edition has
  continued to be influential worldwide, especially in China, Europe and the Americas,
  featuring in all ABRSM syllabuses during the census period [text removed for publication].
  The Department’s considerable expansion of its educational outreach work is exemplified by
  our composers’ involvement in projects using music to engage young people in science and
  technology. The Manchester Robot Orchestra project (2016–17), run by the University’s
  School of Engineering with funding from the ESPRC, Siemens and the Granada Foundation,
  was a particular highlight: for this Reeves wrote a new Concerto for Flute and Robots, which
  became the foundation for creative projects with c.180 pupils in seven Greater Manchester
  schools, culminating in public performances of the children’s own concerti for instruments
  and robots.



                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Sharing expertise as consultants to music professionals and the cultural industries
  Our staff are regularly engaged as expert consultants for professional performance and
  recording projects. Fanning, for example, has advised on programming Weinberg for the
  CBSO, RLPO, Hallé Orchestras and Gidon Kremer (Wiener Festwochen), and was
  consultant for the premieres of two Weinberg song cycles resulting from his research.
  Cooper was engaged as repertoire consultant for Deutsche Grammophon’s New Complete
  Beethoven Edition and Beethoven Rarities recordings and has acted as consultant on
  Beethoven manuscripts for Christie’s auctioneers. Herissone is an advisor on Purcell
  performance projects for (among others) Paul McCreesh (Gabrieli Consort) and The English
  Concert, including the first professional performance of her edition of a rediscovered piece by
  Purcell in October 2020.

  Widening horizons through engaging with the technology industry
  The success of Climent’s LocativeAudio project has led to new relationships with the culture
  and tourism industries and with software experts in developing commercial applications of the
  sonic-walk experience, as detailed in the ‘Sonic Adventures’ Impact Case Study.

  Engaging with practitioners in community-music and healthcare settings
  Fuelled by our commitment to music as a force for empowerment, transformation and
  healing, we have developed significant new strands of socially-responsible activity in our
  work with community-music practitioners, healthcare providers, and related community
  groups that are helping to influence policy and shape practice. The connections established
  through Bithell’s Music, Health and Wellbeing research group complement the professional
  development activities outlined in her Impact Case Study, most recently demonstrated in her
  co-organisation of a half-day online workshop at the ESRC Festival of Social Science
  (November 2020). Additionally, Rutherford contributed to the Manchester interdisciplinary
  project, ‘Voices in the Waiting Room’ (2014), investigating use of the voice in healthcare
  environments, while Malone’s creative work on memory and memorialisation led to invited
  contributions to a 2014 Wellcome Trust project researching memory loss, an All-Party
  Parliamentary Group conference on Arts, Health and Wellbeing, and the International
  Medical Film Festival (MedFest).


  4.3. Contribution to Sustainability of Discipline, its Priorities and Initiatives
  As elected council members of the Royal Musical Association (RMA), Herissone (from
  2019) and Reeves (from 2020) have led our extensive contributions to debates on the future
  of the discipline. Reeves was a key contributor to three RMA symposia on the assessment
  of practice-based research, while his position paper (Tempo, 2016) has been cited by
  HEFCE as influential to their subsequent policy development. Herissone, as Chair of the
  RMA’s Publications Committee, contributed to consultation on Open Access policies and
  chaired a panel on the future of academic music publishing at the RMA’s 55th Annual
  Conference, which she co-convened for the Department with the RNCM in 2019. Hyland is
  active in national campaigns on music analysis and equality and diversity, contributing to the
  Society for Music Analysis video podcasts for teachers and students
  (http://www.sma.ac.uk/videos/episode-3/), establishing the society’s mentoring scheme for
  women, and sitting on the steering committee of the UK’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion in
  Music Studies network, established in 2019.

  4.4. Wider Influence on, Contributions to and Recognition by Research Base
  Three staff were awarded major honours and prizes during the assessment period:
  Herissone was elected a Fellow of the British Academy in 2019 and was awarded the
  Biennial Diana McVeagh Prize by the North American British Music Studies Association in
  2015 for her book Musical Creativity in Restoration England. Berezan’s Lightvessels
  received First Prize in the 2015 Klang! International Electroacoustic Music Competition
  (France), and Climent’s S.laag was awarded the International Computer Music Association
                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Music Prize in 2016 (European category). Several other compositions have been shortlisted
  for awards, including Berezan’s Starboard (2015 Musica Nova International Electroacoustic
  Music Competition), Whalley’s Misplaced Time Refound (2016, BASCA British Composers
  Award) and Malone’s The People Protesting (2019, two Opus Klassik Awards).

  The range of national and international invitations extended to our staff during the census
  period provides further evidence of the recognition of our research. Cooper, for example,
  was awarded an honorary doctorate from the University of Tucumán and was Visiting
  Professor at the National University of Paraguay in 2017; Berezan held two resident-
  composer posts in Sweden (2014, 2018) and had 9 invited solo concerts dedicated to his
  work, 5 in the UK, 3 in Europe and 1 in North America. Grange held residencies in Italy
  (2015) and Aldeburgh, UK (2018) and was featured composer at 8 international festivals (3
  in South America, 3 in North America, 1 in Asia and 1 in Eastern Europe). Musicology and
  ethnomusicology staff have given a total of 69 invited papers and keynote lectures during
  the census period or since appointment to Manchester, 42 at national and 27 at international
  institutions, of which 18 were in Europe, 1 in Asia, 2 in North America, and 6 in South
  America. Composition staff have given 25 invited papers, 12 at national and 13 at
  international institutions (5 in Europe, 1 in Asia, 4 in North America, 3 in South America).

  Our staff have made notable contributions to nurturing the careers of fellow scholars and
  defining future directions in the discipline as editors of leading journals (Herissone: Music &
  Letters, 2007–19; Fanning: Carl Nielsen Studies, from 2017; Hyland: Music Analysis
  Critical Forum from 2018, Associate Editor from 2020); as editorial board members of
  international journals and critical editions (Bithell: 3 journals; Fanning: 2; Hyland: 4;
  Rutherford: 4; Herissone: 3 critical editions, including Chair of Musica Britannica; New
  Grove advisory committee); and as members of advisory boards for funded projects (Bithell:
  1 funded project plus the Institute for Music Research (to 2019); Herissone: 2 AHRC-
  funded projects; Rutherford: 1 funded project). They have also been engaged as peer
  reviewers for numerous publications and funding applications, including within the AHRC
  Peer-Review College (Cooper, Garratt, Herissone), British Academy (Herissone),
  Leverhulme Trust (Bithell, Rutherford), and for 11 international funding bodies and
  institutions, including 3 in the USA, 1 in Canada, 1 in South Africa and 6 in Europe (Bithell,
  Cooper, Garratt, Herissone, Rutherford). Staff have acted as advisers and external
  examiners for taught postgraduate degrees at 4 UK institutions (Cooper, Herissone,
  Grange, Whalley), and as PhD external examiners at 12 UK and 4 international institutions
  (Berezan, Bithell, Cooper, Fanning, Grange, Herissone, Rutherford). Musicology staff
  have assessed book proposals for all the discipline’s major academic publishers, and have
  reviewed over 64 submissions to at least 27 international musicology journals and 10
  journals crossing other disciplines, including history, drama, visual cultures, material
  cultures, politics and cultural studies (Bithell, Cooper, Fanning, Garratt, Hawkins,
  Herissone, Hyland and Rutherford).

  Since REF2014 we have extended our commitment to impactful research by prioritising
  more collaborative and outward-looking approaches. This has enabled us to explore shared
  research interests from both intellectual and creative perspectives, to engage with a wide
  range of professionals and members of the public, and to bring a sharper focus to our
  contributions to the worldwide community of music researchers, thereby ensuring that our
  research benefits communities both within and outside of academia. This provides us with a
  firm foundation on which to build as we enter the next REF cycle.




                                                                                          Page 14
