Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Hull

 Unit of Assessment: 19

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview:
 The Politics UOA at Hull University is a highly active research community, comprised of
 researchers at all stages of their careers from postgraduate research students to professors. It
 has produced innovative impactful research which has achieved wide international recognition.
 The creation of our collegiate, dynamic research culture has been assisted by supportive
 measures at School/Faculty/University levels. Mentoring schemes, comprehensive research
 support (including research training, grant application support, research leave and impact case
 study support) and a wide range of research activities (including research seminars/workshops)
 have helped to create and sustain a vibrant and inclusive research community with a focus on
 cutting-edge disciplinary and interdisciplinary research.

 Drawing on research strengths the UOA has developed research groups and centres which
 organise discipline-specific research activity and take the lead on interdisciplinary projects with
 other Schools/Departments from across Hull University and beyond. The UOA’s research
 activities are strongly outward-looking. Its researchers are involved in interdisciplinary research
 institutes at Faculty level (e.g. Institute of Applied Ethics) and University level (e.g., Maritime and
 Marine Institute and Energy and Environment Institute). Collaboration with leading academics,
 practitioners and stakeholders nationally and internationally has facilitated the production of
 high-quality outputs from externally and internally-funded research projects.

 The UOA is internationally respected for its innovative, impactful research in legislative studies
 (Norton), British politics (Beech, Norton), international political economy (Doctor, Lee),
 Idealism and New Liberalism (Connelly, Fear, Hatzistavrou, Tyler, Williams), environmental
 policy (Barnes, Connelly, Wurzel), the European Union and its member states’ political/legal
 governance structures (Barnes, Lundmark, Monaghan, Varney, Wurzel), Latin American
 politics (Doctor), Middle Eastern studies, the internet, euthanasia and assisted suicide (Cohen-
 Almagor), and war studies, international politics and law (Chakma, Dai, Lonsdale, Martin,
 Moir, Morris, Pritchett). (Bold font indicates staff in the UOA submission).

 Research and impact strategy
 Hull University is an ‘internationally engaged anchor university’ whose mission is to ‘advance
 education, scholarship, knowledge and understanding by teaching and research, for the benefit
 of individuals and society at large’ (Hull University, Strategic Plan 2016-20). Researchers from
 this UOA have made significant contributions to the fulfilment of this mission.

 The Faculty’s strategic research priorities include: nurturing a community of researchers
 committed to innovative, impactful research; establishing clear, ambitious research expectations
 and performance measures appropriate to research disciplines and benchmarked against
 external standards; developing talent management to attract and retain high-performing
 researchers.

 The specifics of the UOA’s research strategy have evolved over time to reflect organisational
 changes at the University/Faculty level. Nevertheless, its core research priorities remain
 constant and include:
    i.  developing world-class research and impact;
   ii.  advancing innovative, impactful disciplinary and interdisciplinary research;
  iii.  fostering enhanced collaboration with academic and non-academic partners; and,
  iv.   promoting a supportive research environment which is co-operative and inclusive.

 The UOA’s research strategy has successfully generated state-of-the-art research into areas of
 wider societal and intellectual importance. It has embedded impact and knowledge exchange

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 into its research activities, while prioritising research which contributes to
 nationally/internationally important research agendas and fosters interdisciplinary collaboration
 within the University and beyond. For example, Barnes and Wurzel (CI) were central to the £1.1
 million UKRI Plastics and Research Innovation Fund (PRIF) award for a project on ‘Creative
 Circular Economy Approaches to Eliminate Plastics Waste’ (2019-2020). The interdisciplinary
 project included 45 academics from 14 Departments/Schools at Hull University.

 The School of Politics and International Studies’ research centres and groups have traditionally
 been the UOA’s main drivers for collaborative disciplinary/interdisciplinary research. The UOA’s
 researchers have increasingly taken the lead on intra-Faculty and inter-Faculty collaborative
 research, which benefitted from a reorganisation in 2016 that brought together the Department
 of Politics, Philosophy and International Studies and the School of Law within the newly-formed
 Faculty of Business, Law and Politics (FBLP). Initially, the School of Law and Politics (2016-
 2018) operated as a single unit before it was split into two separate Schools within FBLP.
 However, collaborations between researchers in the two Schools have continued beyond the
 formal existence of the single unit. Thus, this UOA includes researchers from the School of
 Politics and International Studies alongside Law School researchers with complementary and
 collaborative research activities.

 The 2016 reorganisation made existing interdisciplinary research collaborations more
 sustainable, while facilitating new multi-/interdisciplinary research opportunities. Indicatively,
 Barnes, Connelly and Wurzel have jointly led significant inter-Faculty interdisciplinary research
 projects on environmental issues (detailed below) with colleagues in Geography, Education,
 Chemistry and Estuarine and Coastal Sciences.

 Research Centres/Groups
 Traditionally the coordination of collaborative research within the UOA has taken place through
 the activities of research centres and groups, including the: Centre for British Politics (CBP),
 Centre for Legislative Studies (CLS), Centre for Idealism and the New Liberalism (CINL), Centre
 for European Union Studies (CEUS), War Studies Research Group and Middle East Study
 Group (MESG). Each centre/group significantly contributes to the implementation of the
 interconnected research strategies at UOA/Faculty/University level including the above
 mentioned UOA’s four core research priorities. While led by members of this UOA, each of these
 centres draws on the expertise of researchers from outside this core group. Reflecting the
 University’s 2016 reorganisation of Departments/Schools and Faculties, our research centres
 have become increasingly involved in collaborative, interdisciplinary research led by, for
 example, the Institute of Applied Ethics (Connelly, Fear, Hatzistavrou, Tyler) and Energy and
 Environment Institute (Barnes, Connelly, Wurzel). As an example of the strengths arising from
 institutional investment in newly emerging impactful research from this UOA (Barnes, Wurzel)
 and other Hull University UOAs, the University created Aura in 2015 to facilitate collaboration
 between researchers and industry on offshore wind and other renewable energy, for which the
 Humber region has emerged as a global leader.

 Directed by Lord Norton, the Centre for Legislative Studies draws on researchers from within
 the UOA (Barnes, Beech) and beyond (e.g. Carby-Hall, Leston-Bandeira, Wallis, Yong). It
 serves as a catalyst for internationally-leading, interdisciplinary research in the field of legislative
 studies. The Journal of Legislative Studies has been edited within the Centre, since its inception
 in 1995. Norton is also General Editor of Routledge’s Library of Legislative Studies. A 503-page
 volume edited by Norton, The Impact of Legislatures, was published in 2020, to mark the
 25th anniversary of the journal. PhD students supervised in the Centre since 2014 include
 Kameme (Malawian Parliament), Chen (Chinese National People's Congress), Darfour
 (Ghanaian Parliament), Alodat (Jordanian legislature), and Green (House of Lords reform). In
 addition to running research seminars/workshops, the Centre organises the biennial Workshop
 of Parliamentary Scholars and Parliamentarians, drawing together scholars and legislators from
 around the globe (http://wroxtonworkshop.org). The 14th Workshop was held at Wroxton College
 (Oxfordshire) in 2019. These internationally-renowned events focus on disseminating innovative
 research that is of practical value to the attending practitioners. The Centre collaborates with

                                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 other scholars and research organisations, including the Westminster Foundation for Democracy
 in analysing and developing post-legislative scrutiny in legislatures around the globe. This
 collaboration has resulted in joint research seminars and a special issue of The Journal of
 Legislative Studies on ‘Parliaments and Post-Legislative Scrutiny’ (2019). It has had significant
 impact on several parliaments, as detailed in one of the UOA’s impact case studies in
 REF2021.The Centre therefore contributes significantly to the UOA’s four core research
 priorities.

 For the Centre for British Politics (CBP) (Beech, Fear, Lee, Monaghan, Norton), Beech
 organises the Annual Norton Lecture. Speakers have included Professors Green (2020), Casey
 (2019), Bevir (2018), Avril (2017), Deighton (2016), Childs (2015) and Curtice (2014). The CBP
 organised the Mellon Foundation-funded workshop on Brexit at UC Berkeley (2019) which led to
 a special issue of British Politics (2021); a roundtable on the Conservative-Liberal Coalition
 (2015); and, a joint workshop with the American Political Science Association’s British Politics
 Group on ‘Britain and America in Critical Perspective’ (2014). CBP researchers have produced
 11 book chapters, two journal articles and two edited books including Beech and Lee (eds.) The
 Conservative-Liberal Coalition with chapters by Beech, Lee, Martin, Norton and leading
 researchers from other universities. PhD students affiliated to the Centre who have successfully
 completed their theses during this REF period, e.g. Oliver. Beech mentored Munce who was
 associated with the Centre as a postdoctoral Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellow (2011-14).
 The close involvement of PhD students and postdoctoral researchers provides evidence for a
 supportive research environment in line with the UOA’s core research priorities. The CPB is
 formally linked with the Center for British Studies led by Professor Bevir at UC
 Berkeley's Institute for European Studies (IES). This partnership was formed in 2017 and is
 underwritten by a Memorandum of Agreement between Hull and UC Berkeley. It has led to
 joint workshops, webinars, guest lectures and a special issue. Hull University benefits from the
 prestige of being partnered with a global top ten institution (7th place, 2021 World University
 Ranking) and the UOA benefits from research collaboration and shared access to networks of
 scholars linked to the CBS and IES. Beech gave guest lectures at Berkeley's IES (2018-2019).
 A joint workshop on the Decentred State (2019) resulted in a special issue of Public Policy &
 Administration.

 Since its creation (by its directors Connelly and Tyler) in 2007, the Centre for Idealism and the
 New Liberalism (CINL) has become a world-leading centre for research into British idealism,
 New Liberalism, RG Collingwood and Michael Oakeshott thus contributing significantly to the
 implementation of the UOA’s core research priorities. Since 2014, CINL researchers (Connelly,
 Fear, Hatzistavrou, Tyler) have published two research monographs, two co-edited collections
 (including one in Polish with a Polish co-editor), 26 journal articles, 11 book chapters and four
 special issues for journals (including The British Journal of the History of Philosophy) featuring
 contributors from Italy, Poland, the USA and UK. CINL has hosted visiting scholars from Italy
 (Amos, Dividus), Japan (Hatta), Poland (Grygieńć), and Spain (Bagur, Taltavull). These activities
 reflect the Centre’s place at the heart of a global collaborative network of British idealist scholars
 spanning Africa, Asia, Europe and North/South America. Tyler and Connelly are respectively
 the Convenor and Treasurer of the UK PSA British Idealism Specialist Group (BISG). They
 combine the resources of CINL and BISG to run annual joint academic events, especially with
 the Collingwood and British Idealism Centre at Cardiff University and the PSA Modern Liberty
 Specialist Group at Durham University. External CINL research funding includes grants from the
 Daiwa Anglo-Japanese Foundation and Japan Society for the Promotion of Science. Connelly
 and Tyler collaborate on the project ‘The May Sinclair Papers: Creating a Discoverable Digital
 Archive of her Manuscripts’, Pennsylvania University (USA) which will entail a funded visit to the
 Kislak Rare Book and Manuscript Library in 2021 ($45,366) for the critical edition of May
 Sinclair’s writings. Fear convenes the PSA Conservative Philosophy Group and is
 Communication and Finance Officer for the Specialist Group on Conservatism Studies. For
 2017-18, Connelly received a British Academy Senior Research Fellowship (£43,351) for
 research on a R.G. Collingwood biography. Since 2014, CINL researchers have held visiting
 positions at Yokohama National University, Japan (Tyler), Arras University, France (Connelly,
 Tyler), Genoa University, Italy (Connelly, Fear, Tyler) and Nicholas Copernicus University,

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Poland (Tyler). CINL staff supervised PhD students who completed their thesis in this REF
 period, including Paylor and Pearce. CINL has produced world-class, impactful research while
 collaborating internationally with a wide range of academic and non-academic partners also
 offering an inclusive research environment for early career researchers (Fear).

 During REF2021, Centre for European Union Studies (CEUS) researchers (Connelly, Dai,
 Hayward, Monaghan, Wurzel) have produced three co-edited books, 12 journal articles, seven
 book chapters and two special issues. CEUS has collaborated with the Institute for European
 Public Law (Birkinshaw, Varney), organising research seminars with external speakers and the
 Jean Monnet lecture. In 2019, it launched the Hayward lecture in memory of Professor Jack
 Hayward, who was an active Centre member until his death in 2017. The inaugural lecture was
 given by Professor Menon (King’s College). Varney is editor-in-chief for European Public Law. In
 line with the research priority to collobarate with academic and non-academic partners, Varney
 has carried out jointly with Professor Panara (Liverpool John Moores University) British
 Academy funded research on European Offices of the English Authorities in Brussels. Since
 2014, CEUS has pioneered impactful interdisciplinary research on EU/European environmental
 policy. Wurzel organised an externally-funded (EU and Nijmegen University, Netherlands)
 workshop in Hull (2015) which resulted in a book edited by Wurzel, Connelly and Liefferink
 (Nijmegen) on The European Union in International Climate Change Politics (2017). The
 environmental leader/pioneer concept was developed further by Liefferink and Wurzel in a joint
 article for the Journal of European Public Policy (2017). EU COST funding enabled Wurzel and
 Liefferink (Nijmegen University) to organise a workshop on ‘Pioneers and Leaders in Polycentric
 Climate Governance (PiLePoC)’ in Hull (2016) which led to an Environmental Politics special
 issue (2019) edited by Wurzel, Liefferink and Torney (Dublin City University) and a book for
 Routledge (2020) edited by Wurzel, Andersen (Aarhus University, Denmark) and Tobin
 (Manchester University). A British Academy-funded project on ‘The Ecological Modernisation of
 Structurally Disadvantaged Coastal European Maritime Port Cities’ enabled Wurzel (PI),
 Connelly and Monaghan to collaborate with Hull University researchers in Geography and
 Estuarine and Coastal Sciences as well as in Germany. This led to joint publications and a
 workshop for academics/practitioners in Hull (2014). Wurzel and Jonas (Geography) gave an
 end-of-award presentation to practitioners in Bremerhaven in 2017
 (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DNoi_zZ_b_8). Moulton (Hull University PhD scholarship,
 2014-16) was associated with CEUS and published jointly with his supervisor (Wurzel) and
 other established researchers (showing further evidence of a co-operative research
 environment). Barnes’ internationally-renowned research and advocacy on environmental and
 fisheries governance underpins the UOA’s second impact case study, ‘Shaping UK and
 International Fisheries Law and Policy’.

 The War Studies Research Group and researchers on international relations and law (Chakma,
 Lonsdale, Martin, Moir, Morris and Pritchett) have developed world-leading research which
 received funding from, e.g., the British Council, ESRC and Defence Science Technology
 Laboratory. Connelly (PI) collaborated with Lonsdale (CI) on the ESRC-funded project ‘Ethics
 and Rights in Cyber Security’ (2014-16). Martin’s monograph on The UK as a Medium for
 Maritime Power in the 21st Century: Logistics for Influence was nominated for the Mountbatten
 Award for most influential Book from the UK Maritime Foundation. Chris Bellamy and Eric Grove
 have been Visiting Research Professors and a former PhD student, Sven Herpig, has worked as
 Visiting Research Fellow with Lonsdale on artificial intelligence and cyber security. Moir is a
 founding member and Deputy Director of the McCoubrey Centre for International Law and
 has published widely on the use of force and armed conflict. The Group has an active PhD
 student community, including, Dingli, Fedorcheck, Herpig, AlQahtani, Smith, Flint, Morris, and
 Pritchett (awarded PhDs this REF cycle).

 Although the research centres/groups have developed from core strengths, the UOA also
 facilitates individual research interests which enhance outcomes for achieving our four research
 priorities. Cohen-Almagor has undertaken path-breaking research on the internet, especially in
 relation to hate speech which is the main focus of his monograph Confronting the Internet's Dark
 Side (Cambridge University Press, 2015). His research on safeguarding patient’s autonomy at

                                                                                           Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the end-of-life has generated impact by helping to shape Israel’s policy on organ transplants and
 end-of-life legislative initiatives in Australia, Belgium, Canada, Israel, New Zealand, South Africa,
 the UK and USA. Doctor and Lee are highly research active on domestic and international
 political economy issues. Doctor published a monograph on Business-State Relations in Brazil
 (Routledge, 2017), and collaborated on a Brazilian-funded project with São Paulo University on
 ‘The Political Influence of São Paulo Business’, that delivered on the UOA’s research priorities.

 Emeritus Professors Jack Hayward (until his death in 2017), Noel O’Sullivan, Lord Parekh and
 James Connelly (retired in 2020), have remained actively involved in the UOA’s research
 activities.

 Faculty-level Research Institutes
 In addition to the UOA’s research centres and groups, its researchers play leading roles in inter-
 Faculty research institutes, including the Institute of Applied Ethics (Connelly, Fear,
 Hatzistavrou, Tyler) and the Middle East Study Group (Cohen-Almagor).

 The Institute of Applied Ethics (IAE) has attracted researchers from across the Faculty/University
 and engaged extensively with third sector/voluntary partners under its Directors Connelly (2014-
 17), Tyler (2017-19), Fear (since 2020). Since 2014, the IAE has been led by researchers in the
 School of Politics and International Studies (Connelly, Fear, Hatzistavrou, Tyler) with Faculty
 contributions especially from Law (Bielby, Johnstone) and Business (Reedy). It enjoys significant
 pan-University reach. Its core mission is to bring academics from across the globe to present
 pioneering research to the extended Hull University community of local citizens and civil society
 groups. IAE has become a bridge between the University, city and region, with events regularly
 attracting large audiences, thus fostering enhanced collaboration with non-academic partners. In
 2014-20, IAE organised 42 seminars and 13 symposia/conferences which were attended by
 several hundred people including staff, students and the general public. It received £31,500 of
 internal non-pay funding. Additionally, annually it receives dedicated administrative support (0.6,
 band 4). During this REF period, IAE hosted speakers from Australia, Canada, Denmark, USA,
 and elsewhere. It welcomed speakers from non-academic organisations and think tanks,
 including the Centre for Ageing Better, Equality Trust, Humberside Police and Migration
 Yorkshire. 11 PGRs have been supervised by IAE members during REF2021.

 The Middle East Study Group (MESG) is directed by Cohen-Almagor. Since 2014, it has
 organised 37 research seminars which were attended by hundreds of students, staff and local
 stakeholders. Its members/affiliate members are drawn from across the University (including,
 Chakma, Bovis, Bielby, Hayward, Lundmark) and beyond. High profile MESG speakers during
 this REF cycle include Lord Trimble (Nobel Peace Prize Laureate); former Israeli Prime Minister
 Ehud Olmert; Lord Williams of Baglan; Professor Lord Parekh; His Excellency Sir Vincent Fean,
 Former British Ambassador to Libya; His Excellency Ambassador Mazen Kamal Homoud,
 Jordanian Ambassador to the UK; and Sir Richard Dalton, former British Ambassador to Iran.

 Future research
 The UOA aims to continue developing world-class, impactful research while fostering
 collaboration with academic/non-academic partners within an inclusive and supportive research
 environment. The research centres, groups and institutes at UOA/Faculty/University level will be
 developed further with the aim of maintaining them as core drivers for the sustainable delivery of
 evolving research priorities which will aim to encourage researchers from the UOA to help set
 national/international research agendas and take advantage of newly arising research
 opportunities. Plans to set up a Faculty-level Hull Centre for Government have been advanced
 with the aim of strengthening further collaboration between research centres/groups as well as
 with individual researchers at School/Faculty/University level. A key part of its mission will be to
 extend the UOA’s existing work with parliaments, not least in partnership with the All-Party
 Parliamentary Group for Hull University. Researchers from this UAO (Beech, Cohen-Almagor,
 Connelly, Doctor, Norton, Tyler, Wurzel) have taken leading roles in developing plans for such
 a centre.


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Strategy and Staff Development
 As previously mentioned, the Faculty’s research strategy commits to: (i) nurturing a community
 of researchers at all career stages committed to innovative, impactful research; (ii) establishing
 clear, ambitious research expectations; (iii) performance measures appropriate to research
 disciplines and benchmarked against external standards; and, (iv) developing talent
 management to attract and retain high-performing researchers. These principles structure
 recruitment, career development, and research opportunities for staff.

 Research leave
 Research Leave is an example of creating opportunities at all career stages as evidenced by
 staff from lecturers to established professors being awarded research leave. The University
 operates a Faculty-level managed research leave scheme. All academic staff can apply for one
 semester of leave every seventh semester, with opportunities for additional shorter leave to
 complete specific projects. Since 2014, the following researchers have been each granted
 research leave: Beech (2016-17), Chakma (2016-17), Cohen-Almagor (2018-19), Doctor
 (2015-16, 2019-20), Hatzistavrou (2014-15, 2018-19), Lonsdale (2014-15), Lundmark (2018-
 19), Martin (2015-16), Moir (2016-2017), Monaghan (2016-17), Morris (2014-15), Tyler (2014-
 15, 2019-20) and Wurzel (2014-15, 2019-20). A British Academy/Leverhulme Senior Fellowship
 and an ESRC grant enabled Connelly’s leave for 2014-15 and 2017-18. Lonsdale’s leave in
 2014-15 was funded by the same ESRC grant. In 2014-2015, a grant from the Johns Hopkins
 University, Bologna Center, enabled Doctor to spend one semester in Bologna as Visiting
 Associate Professor and Research Fellow. Tyler was bought out for one semester in 2014-15,
 when he was Visiting Professor at Wake Forest University, USA.

 Mentoring
 The UOA has an active mentoring policy in which, typically, senior staff mentor junior
 colleagues. Lonsdale mentors Pritchett, and Tyler and Connelly mentor Fear. Early career
 researchers Pritchett and Fear have been active in research activities, both within the School
 and wider research community. Fear contributes three outputs to REF2021. UOA researchers
 have also acted as mentors for researchers in other Departments/Schools/Faculties, e.g.,
 Doctor mentored a History Department researcher working on Latin America (2017-2019). Post-
 PhD colleagues including Dingli, Silverwood, Moulton and Pritchett contributed to this UOA’s
 research and teaching. They went on to careers at Glasgow University (Dingli), Coventry
 University (Silverwood) and York University (Moulton) or secured a permanent position within
 the UOA (Pritchett).

 Career development
 The performance of UOA researchers is appraised in annual development reviews conducted by
 the Head of School. The Associate Dean Research (ADR) identifies research training/support
 needs and addresses workload issues.

 Since 2014, Lonsdale and Varney were promoted to Senior Lecturer and Doctor, Beech and
 Martin to Reader. Barnes (2017-2020) and Tyler (since 2020) were appointed ADR. Some
 former UOA staff secured senior level appointments at other universities including Barnes
 (Professor, Lincoln), Kennedy (Professor, Loughborough), Leston-Bandeira (Professor, Leeds)
 and Woodward (Senior Lecturer, Coventry).

 In 2016, the University adopted a new Academic Career Framework which provides structured
 career paths in research, education and knowledge exchange. Research domain staff are
 expected to conduct ‘significant research activity leading to internationally excellent outputs’,
 including publications, impact, external grant capture and postgraduate research student
 supervision. Workload planning aims to ensure that researchers have sufficient research time.
 Research domain staff are normally allocated 40% under the Faculty’s workload model which
 takes into account complementary teaching strategies reflecting the UOA’s research priorities. In
 our teaching, we strongly support research skills development among UG/PG students (e.g., by

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 offering a Year 2 ‘Paths of Research’ module and the inclusion of PGRS in School/Faculty
 research seminars and research achievement seminars).

 Postgraduate Research Students:
 The well-being, support, training and supervision of PhD students is at the heart of the UOA’s
 research community. PhD students have two supervisors whom they meet at least 12 times
 annually, although more frequent meetings are common. PhD students are subject to annual
 progress reviews. They must undertake a rigorous compulsory research training programme
 and benefit from extensive additional research training opportunities). All first-year PGRS take
 the Doctoral College’s Modern Researcher module and School/Faculty-run discipline-specific
 methods modules. PGRs are present their research to fellow students and staff at research
 seminars. The Postgraduate Studies Director supports research students, and acts as link
 between the UOA and the University’s Doctoral College, as well as between students and their
 supervisors. All PGR students are encouraged to attend and present at both the Faculty’s PGR
 monthly meeting (which supplements the staff-student community, being less formal and aimed
 solely at PGRs) and the Doctoral College’s Faculty-oriented monthly Research Community and
 Culture Seminars.

 Hull University’s drive towards interdisciplinary research has triggered an increase in PhD
 students with joint supervisors from different Schools/Departments/Faculties. Examples include
 Fagan (Politics/FBLP and Philosophy/FACE), Moulton (Politics/FBLP and Geography/Science
 Faculty), and Zisis (Politics and Business School). All PhD students have access to personal
 research space and computing facilities. PhD students can apply for Faculty research support of
 up to £1,500 annually and, if justified, for more. The funds can be used for conference/workshop
 presentations, archival research, interviews/fieldwork, research training, or other research
 activities.

 Since REF2014, 56 PhD students successfully completed their PhD. This represents a
 significant increase in PhD student numbers and an improvement in the completion rate. In this
 REF cycle, 19 PhD students held competitively awarded Hull University PhD scholarships. Each
 PhD scholarship is worth between £50,000-£60,000 (depending on home or international
 student status) for the duration of a three-year degree, totalling more than £1 million. The
 University has therefore made a significant investment in the UOA’s PhD research community.
 Several PhD students received external grants (e.g. China Scholarship Council, also Omani,
 Jordanian and Thai governments).

 PGRS have benefited from the AHRC-funded doctoral training centre, Heritage Consortium,
 which is eligible to bid for funds for public policy engagement training programmes. Wilson
 (History) and Monaghan designed one-day training sessions on public policy engagement in
 Leeds (2015) and London (2015), which were attended by more than 30 PhD students from Hull
 and its consortium partners, including Moulton. In June 2020 a Hull University research team
 was granted £1.35m by the Leverhulme Trust for a Doctoral Scholarships Centre for Water
 Cultures (2020-26). Wurzel will act jointly with Burden (Education) as PhD supervisor for the
 Centre for Water Cultures, which will be open to other UOA students/researchers.

 Many of our former PGRS have secured research-related posts at other universities. Examples
 include Banjongprasert (Chiang Mai University, Thailand), Chen (Beihang University, Beijing,
 China), Fedorchak (NTNU Trondheim, Norway), Kameme (Vice-Chancellor at Daeyan
 University, Malawi), Khalfey (Birmingham University), Moulton (York University), Oliver
 (Manchester University), Pearce (Copenhagen University, Denmark), Rogers (Associate Fellow,
 LSE IDEAS), Woodward (Coventry University) and Zhu (Chinese University of Politics and Law,
 Beijing). Former PGRS employed by research-related organisations include Okechukwu (Max
 Planck Foundation for International Peace and the Rule of Law) and Paylor (Emerald
 Publishing). Many have published independently or with their supervisor (e.g. Oliver and Beech
 (2014) and Moulton and Wurzel (2019)) providing further evidence of the UOA’s sustainable
 research culture that is inclusive towards ECRs.


                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Inclusivity, diversity, respect and integrity
 The UOA is committed to equality of opportunity. All staff have to complete regular equality and
 diversity training in line with University policy. We are actively involved in implementing Principle
 6 of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. Specialist IT and other
 equipment as well as support, personal assistance, and adjustments to the office environment of
 three of our researchers have been made to enable them to engage in research. More than half
 of the UOA’s Band 9 and 10 Politics colleagues were born outside the UK. Improving career
 outcomes for female researchers is a UOA priority, with Doctor and Tyler now sitting on the
 Faculty’s Athena SWAN Group.

 Faculty- and University-level support
 Hull University’s Research and Enterprise Office offers dedicated bid development, impact
 development and capacity building. The Research Funding Office provides support with
 costings. The Research and Innovation Development Team (RIDT) supports researchers
 through: identifying research opportunities and helping to develop research ideas into
 projects/bids; support major strategic bids; facilitate interactions between academics, funders
 and external partners; develop interdisciplinary research collaborations across Schools/Faculties
 and University-level Research Institutes; and help developing impact plans. The RIDT engages
 with research funders, partners and users to understand their requirements, priorities, and future
 trends; and identifies internal research capabilities to enhance researcher’s and research
 groups’ ability to respond to opportunities. The University encourages multi-/interdisciplinary
 research through competitive University PhD cluster scholarships, Global Challenges Research
 QR Fund, Impact Accelerator Fund, the HEIF fund, and the Research England Quality-related
 Research Strategic Priorities Funding (QR SPF) to enhance policy engagement.

 The Faculty Research Forum facilitates research dialogue, enabling Research Directors, REF-
 Leads and the ADR to share information with researchers about research agendas and strategic
 initiatives. The Forum provides opportunities for staff to feed into the Faculty/University’s
 research agenda. The Faculty organises writing retreats, impact development workshops, bid
 development training, and evaluation workshops. Since 2018, the Faculty has produced a
 monthly research newsletter to showcase research, advertise training and development
 opportunities. The Faculty Research Committee meets quarterly with representation from all
 three Schools and research support staff from FBLP and the University.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Infrastructure and facilities
 Hull University has invested significantly in its research infrastructure and facilities over the
 current REF period. Since its creation in 2016, the FBLP spent £469,762 on research. In 2015,
 the University’s Brynmor Jones Library was fully refurbished at a cost of £28 million. It houses
 one million books, including more than 4,000 rare books many of which are regularly used by
 UOA staff (Connelly, Fear, Tyler). The UOA itself, under the auspices of CINL, houses the
 library of the idealist philosopher Errol Harris. The Hull History Centre, which partners with the
 University and Hull City Council, holds important archival material including Alan Johnson’s
 personal papers, offering unique research opportunities for UOA staff and PGRS. The University
 established the Alan Johnson PhD scholarship in 2019.

 Hull University uses Worktribe as its research information management system and repository,
 making available (green) open access publications and external communication tools for
 research relevant information. The University subscribes to GRANTfinder to provide its
 researchers with target information about funding opportunities. The use of Box and Teams for
 research collaboration has expanded especially during the COVID-19 crisis. UOA staff have
 their own offices with computers, as well as communal working spaces and staff rooms for
 informal meetings.



                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 External research funding:
 In line with the UOA’s research priorities (see section 1), we have developed robust approaches
 to research project applications and grant income capture. The UOA’s research centres/groups
 and the University-level Research Institutes lie at the heart of our research activities, and are
 well supported by the University’s Research Funding Office and RIDT. Since 2014, the UOA’s
 external research income amounted to a total of £483,333. Compared to REF2014 (£381,847),
 this constitutes a significant improvement in research grant capture by this UOA (14.2 FTE)
 compared to REFF2014 (19.2 FTE).

 Larger external funding bids are usually based on teams of researchers. Connelly (PI) and
 Lonsdale (CI) secured ESRC funding for a research project on ‘The Common Good: Ethics and
 Rights in Cyber Security’ (2014-16). The Hull component was £165,396 (grant total: £198,151).
 This project exemplifies the close collaborations between different research centres/groups
 within the UOA and across Faculties. While Connelly is active especially in the UOA’s Centre
 for Idealism and New Liberalism, Centre for European Union Studies and Faculty-level Institute
 of Applied Ethics, Lonsdale mainly contributed to the War Studies Research Group.

 The UOA’s researchers are increasingly involved in cross-Faculty interdisciplinary research.
 Examples include: Wurzel (CI) and Barnes participated in the £1.1 million UKRI funded project
 ‘Evolving a Circular Plastics Economy’. With researchers from Education, Wurzel and
 Monaghan have been involved in a connected pump-priming project, ‘Engaging Young People in
 the Circular Plastics Economy’, and Wurzel also in a related UKRI-funded project on ‘Citizen
 Inquiry’ (PI: Burden, Education). A British Academy-funded (£10,000) project ‘The Ecological
 Modernisation of Structurally Disadvantaged Coastal European Maritime Port Cities’ enabled
 Wurzel (PI) to collaborate with Connelly, Monaghan and researchers in Geography and
 Estuarine and Coastal Sciences (2013-2016). Subsequent Hull University Aura and QR SPF
 funding allowed Wurzel and Jonas (Geography) to undertake research on offshore wind energy
 in structurally-disadvantaged cities/regions in Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands and the UK.
 Varney’s 2015 British Academy-funded project (£5,824) on ‘Transparency and Accountability of
 the European Offices of the English Local Authorities in Brussels’ and Barnes’ (CI) European
 Commission-funded project (£281,689) on ‘Climate Change and European Aquatic Resources’
 (2016-2020) also focused on EU/European issues. Barnes and Wurzel were research team
 members for the EU FP7-funded project on ‘Vectors of Change in Oceans and Seas Marine Life,
 Impact on Economic Sectors’ which involved 37 research teams from 14 European countries
 (2011-2015). Funding for the Hull-based research team amounted to £394,000.

 As Director of the IAE, Tyler led Hull University’s side of the AHRC-funded (£142,675)
 collaboration with Dr Wilson (Liverpool John Moores) on ‘Instrumental Values: Professional
 ethics in collaborative cultural work’ (2017-18). The IAE received funding for organising a
 practitioner-oriented workshop in Hull, plus £1,300 for dissemination events. Tyler was PI for
 ‘Workshops on the Development of Japanese Ideas of Social Justice: The British Idealists’
 influence’, held in Japan and funded by a Daiwa Anglo-Japanese Foundation Small Grant
 (£3,569). While Visiting Professor at Wake Forest University, USA (2014-15) and at Yokohama
 National University, Japan (2018), Tyler’s salary cost and accommodation were covered,
 totalling circa £45,000.

 War Studies Research Group members Lonsdale received funding from the Office of the Chief
 Scientific Advisor for National Security (£42,000) and Chakma (jointly with Kennedy-Pipe) from
 the British Council UK India Education and Research Initiative (£18,680) (2015-16). Chakma’s
 grant helped to build educational and research collaborations with Jadavpur University, Kolkata,
 India. Collaborators included Professor Suranjan Das (Vice-Chancellor of Jadavpur) and Dr
 Shantanu Chakravarti (Calcutta University), who received matched funding from the University
 Grants Commission (India). Moreover, Chakma received funding from the British Army Project
 (£8,000) for collaboration with Cranfield University and King’s College, London for the project
 Security Sector Horizon Scanning 2015.



                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Linked to the MESG, Cohen-Almagor received $8,000 from the Israel Institute for researching
 the Middle East peace process (2019), £9,000 from The 1970 Trust for MESG research activities
 (2013-2016) and $7,000 from the Institute for the Study of Global Antisemitism and Policy for a
 Fellowship at St. John’s College, Oxford (2018).

 Doctor has held grants from the Bologna Institute of Policy Research (BIPR) at SAIS Europe
 (2016-2017) for a project on Brazilian foreign policy, and a grant from the Fundação de Amparo
 a Pesquisa do Estado de São Paulo (FAPESP), The Political Influence of São Paulo Business:
 Comparing the Political Strategies and Policy Impact of the Paulista Agricultural and Industrial
 Sectors, at São Paulo University (2016).


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 As part of an internationally-engaged civic university and an anchor institution at local and
 regional levels, the UOA’s researchers are strongly engaged in collaboration within the
 city/region and beyond. It prizes its reputation for contributing to the national/international
 research base, as well as the wider economy and society nationally and abroad. In line with the
 UOA’s four core research priorities, researchers are involved in national/international academic
 and non-academic networks and collaborations with the goal of developing world-leading,
 impactful research. They actively participate in roles that contribute to knowledge, inform public
 policy, and support societal well-being, as outlined in the indicative list of the UOA’s
 contributions below. The UOA’s two impact case studies – ‘Post-legislative scrutiny in the United
 Kingdom, 2014-2020’ (Norton) and ‘Shaping UK and International Fisheries Law and Policy’
 (Barnes) – offer particularly strong evidence for the engagement by UOA researchers with and
 their impact on non-academic research users. Additionally, most of the UOA’s research aims to
 generate impact and/or knowledge exchange.

 The UOA’s access to the University/Faculty’s research infrastructure, and opportunities to
 strategically utilise internal/external research collaborations to attain grants, PGRS, and societal
 partners have further enhanced its contributions to the research base. We have been especially
 sensitive to contributing to the politics and public policy research needs of the wider
 national/international community during the COVID-19 crisis, which triggered much greater
 online involvement compared to before the pandemic.

 Networks
 UOA staff have held leading roles in research networks and professional organisations (e.g.
 PSA, BISA).

 Beech served on APSA’s British Politics Group Executive Committee (2014-2019). Cohen-
 Almagor is a Steering Committee member of ECPR Standing Group on Human Rights and the
 Institute for the Study of Global Antisemitism and Policy (ISGAP) as well as board member of
 the Association for Israel Studies and the Advisory Committee, Initiative on Youth-oriented
 Online Hate at Harvard University. Doctor was Co-Chair for the Economy and Society Track in
 the Latin American Studies Association (LASA) Congress (2015), and the LASA Politics and
 Economy Section Chair for many years. Tyler and Connelly are Co-convenor and Treasurer
 respectively of the UK PSA British Idealism Special Group. Fear is Communication and Finance
 Officer for the PSA Conservatism Studies Group. Hatzistavrou has been President of the UK
 branch of the International Association of Legal and Social Philosophy (IVR) since 2018. Centre
 for Idealism and the New Liberalism researchers (Connelly, Fear, Tyler) have organised a
 collaborative network for British idealist scholars spanning Africa, Asia, Europe and North
 America. Norton organises and co-sponsors, with the International Parliamentary Union, the
 biennial Workshop of Parliamentary Scholars and Parliamentarians, which facilitates dialogue
 between scholars and practitioners. Norton has been elected President of the Study of
 Parliament Group, drawing together academics and parliamentary officials. In 2020, he became
 Chair of The History of Parliament which is funded by grants-in-aid from both Houses of
 Parliament. Wurzel acted as Co-Convenor (2016-2020) for the PSA’s German Politics Specialist

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Group, which was (jointly with the Greek Politics Specialist Group) named Specialist Group of
 the year in 2019.

 Norton and Tyler are Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences.

 Journals
 UOA researchers have served as editors and on editorial boards of many leading journals.
 Beech is an editorial board member of Policy Studies. Cohen-Almagor’s editorial board
 memberships include: European Journal of Analytic Philosophy, Israel Studies and Ethical
 Space. Doctor is an Associate Editor on the Brazilian Political Science Review. Connelly is
 Executive Editor for International Journal of Social Economics, which he co-edited with Tyler
 (2016-20). Both are editors of Collingwood and British Idealism Studies. Lundmark is an
 editorial board member of Rechtstheorie and State and Law: Proceedings of the Institute of
 State and Law of the Russian Academy of Sciences. Norton founded and edits The Journal of
 Legislative Studies. Tyler served on the editorial advisory board of Politics and Religion. Varney
 is editor-in-chief of European Public Law. Wurzel has served on the editorial boards of
 Environmental Politics (since 2012) and the Journal of European Public Policy (2004-2020).

 Many UOA researchers have edited special issues of journals. Indicatively: Connelly co-edited
 special issues on Brexit for the Marmara Journal of European Studies (2018) and on
 Collingwood and British Idealism Studies (2018). Tyler and Connelly co-edited a British Journal
 for the History of Philosophy special issue on ‘British Idealism: Language, Aesthetics and
 Emotions’ (2018). Beech edited a British Politics special issue on ‘Brexit and the Reimagining
 Political Traditions’ (2021). Wurzel was lead co-editor for an Environmental Politics special issue
 on ‘Pioneers, Leaders and Followers in Multilevel and Polycentric Climate Governance’ (2019).

 UOA staff have been peer reviewers for over 150 journals and many leading publishers. They
 contribute to the wider research environment through reviewing proposals for national (e.g.,
 AHRC and ESRC) and international research funding bodies (e.g., German Academic Science
 Foundation (DFG), FRS-FNRS Belgium).

 Visiting Fellowships/Professorships and Fellows
 UOA researchers have held visiting positions at other universities/research institutes which
 reflect the high international standing of our researchers. Beech held an International Visiting
 Research Fellowship, Flinders University (2015). He was Visiting Scholar at the Institute of
 European Studies, UC, Berkeley (2017) and is Senior Fellow at the Institute and Associate
 Member of the Centre de Recherches en Civilisation Britannique, Sorbonne Nouvelle - Paris 3.
 Cohen-Almagor Visiting Professorships include: Basel University, Switzerland (2016); Nirma
 University, India (2018); Zurich University, Switzerland (2018) and a Distinguished Visiting
 Professorship at University College London (2019). Doctor was Visiting Associate Professor at
 Johns Hopkins University, Bologna, Italy (2015) and Visiting Research Fellow at São Paulo
 University, Brazil (2016). Hatzistavrou held a Visiting Fellowship at Princeton University (2016).
 Lundmark was part-time (20%) professor at the University of Southern Denmark (2016-2017).
 During 2014-20, the UOA’s standing with British idealist networks led to visiting positions in
 France (Connelly, Tyler), Italy (Connelly, Fear, Tyler), Poland (Tyler), USA (Hatizistavrou,
 Tyler) and Japan (Connelly, Tyler).

 Invited lectures/keynotes
 The high international reputation of UOA researchers is evidenced also by its large number of
 invited keynote lectures/speeches. A small sample includes the following.

 Beech was invited to: Adelaide University, 2015; Flinders University, 2015; Rose-Hulman
 Institute of Technology, 2017; UC Berkeley, 2017-2019; Northern California World Trade Center,
 Sacramento 2018; California Chamber of Commerce, 2019.




                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Cohen-Almagor gave keynote lectures at: Vigo University, Spain, 2015; Sheffield University,
 2016; Adam Institute for Democracy and Peace, Jerusalem, 2016; Antwerp University,
 2017; Universidad de A Coruña, 2018; Nirma University, India, 2018.

 Connelly gave keynote lectures at: Marmara University, Istanbul, 2015, 2016; Urbino University,
 2016, 2017; Oxford University, 2016; Jadavpur University, Kolkata, 2017.

 Doctor’s keynote lectures include: Brazilian Political Science Association (ABCP) Congress,
 2016; WEES Conference, Maringa State University, Brazil, 2018. Amongst her invitations were:
 Uruguayan Political Science Association Congress (AUCiP), 2014; São Carlos University, Brazil,
 2016; Oxford University, 2016, 2017; King’s College London, 2017, 2020; Leiden 2017;
 University of São Paulo, 2018; York University, 2018; Suffolk University Boston, 2020. Both
 2020 engagements were open registration webinars on Brazil’s COVID-19 response.

 Lundmark’s invited lectures include: Aarhus University, Denmark (2016-2020), Hamad bin
 Khalifa University, Qatar (2016), Münster University, Germany (2016); Siberian Federal
 University, Russian Federation (2018).

 Norton’s numerous keynote lectures in academic and practitioner contexts include: Oxford
 University, 2014; National Assembly for Wales, 2014; Palace of Westminster, 2015; Speaker’s
 Lecture, Speaker’s House, Westminster, 2015 and 2019 [broadcast on BBC Parliament]; High
 Sheriff’s Magna Carta Lecture, Hull University, 2015; Hull University Founder’s Day Lecture,
 Holy Trinity Church, Hull, 2015; The Michael Ryle Memorial Lecture, Speaker’s House,
 Westminster, 2016; Birmingham-Illinois Partnership for Discovery, Engagement and Education,
 Brussels, 2018; Westminster Foundation for Democracy /Institute of Advanced Legal Studies
 (IALS), University of London, 2018; Workshop of Parliamentary Scholars and Parliamentarians,
 Wroxton College, 2019; The Bingham Lecture in Constitutional Studies, Oxford University, 2019.
 In 2016 Norton gave the keynote lecture on ‘The Modern Slavery Act 2015t’ for the Judges’
 Summit on Human Trafficking and Organised Crime, Casina Pio IV, Vatican City, Rome.

 Tyler delivered keynote lectures at: National Humanities Center, USA, 2014; Université de
 Cergy-Pontoise, France, 2014; Kobe University and Kyoritsu Women’s University, Japan, 2017;
 Urbino University, Italy, 2018; Copenhagen University, 2018; Waseda University, Japan, 2018;
 Indian Institute of Technology Tirupati, India, 2020.

 Wurzel gave keynote lectures at: Environmental Policy Research Centre (FFU), Berlin, 2016;
 Oxford University, 2017; Climate City Office Bremerhaven, Germany, 2017; INTERREG-funded
 workshop, Sønderborg, Denmark, 2019.

 Researchers from the UOA and its research centres/groups have organised many international
 conferences/workshops with academics, practitioners and stakeholders from across the world.
 These high-profile events, often with open access, involved outreach to the local community and
 beyond. For example, Fear, Pritchett and Beech have been central to the organisation of staff
 and student research seminars which continued online during the COVID-19 crisis. To ensure a
 high-quality research environment for PGRs during the COVID-19 crisis, Pritchett organised
 online discussion seminars with external speakers including Professor Low (Durham) and Dr
 Fedorchak (NTNU). Tyler and Fear organised a two-day online conference for idealist scholars
 from four continents (2020).

 Outreach and knowledge transfer
 The UOA’s researchers have been actively involved in outreach and generating research impact
 in a wide range of knowledge transfer activities that were driven by our research centres/groups.

 British Politics and Legislative Studies
 Beech, Norton and Lee are frequent contributors to radio/television and blogs The Centre for
 British Politics Annual Norton Lecture is open to the public. Norton engages in advisory roles in
 Westminster and serves on constitutional and other committees, as well as playing a full part in

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the work of the House of Lords. In this REF period, Norton served as member of the
 Constitution Committee (2015-19). He coordinates and supervises the undergraduate degree
 programme British Politics and Legislative Studies which has a year’s placement in Westminster.
 He regularly contributes to the blog, Lords of the Blog. Norton chairs the Academic Governing
 Board of the Hansard Society. He is engaged in convening the Centre for Government, with the
 brief of coordinating research on government/governance across Hull University while
 maintaining and developing engagement with relevant practitioners in the UK and abroad.

 Since 2014, Norton has given written/oral evidence to the following parliamentary committees:
 Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee, House of Commons (2015, 2016,
 2017, twice 2019); Constitution Committee, House of Lords (2019); Liaison Committee, House of
 Lords (2018, 2019); National Assembly for Wales, Expert Panel on Electoral Reform (2017);
 Lord Speaker’s Committee on the Size of the House, House of Lords (2017); Secondary
 Legislation Scrutiny Committee, House of Lords (2016); International Development Committee,
 House of Commons (2014). Norton contributed to the following seminars in parliament: Liaison
 Committee, House of Lords, (2018); Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Select
 Committee, House of Commons (2015, 2018); Public Administration Select Committee, House
 of Commons (2014); 1922 Committee Executive (2016).

 Applied Ethics
 The IAE engages extensively with the local community, by inviting local and business
 representation onto its executive committee, and contributing to the local British Humanist
 Association Group, the Hull and East Riding Inter-Faith Network, and other groups. It has hosted
 many publicly-oriented events, covering military ethics and police ethics with police practitioners.
 Recent external IAE speakers include MPs (e.g., Jon Cruddas), policy-oriented academics
 (Professor Pickett (York) and Professor Dorling (Oxford)), and members of policy organisations
 including the Stockholm Environment Institute, Policy Exchange and Citizen’s Basic Income
 Trust. Connelly’s Leverhulme funded engagement with military ethics education in the British
 Army led to edited books on military ethics and collections for practitioners. He has contributed
 to radio/television and online blogs, for example, with Fear, on Brexit in the New Statesman.
 Tyler is a member of the Stakeholder Group of the All-Party Parliamentary Group on the Role of
 the House of Lords (since 2019) and the Labour Academics Network (since 2020).

 European Union and environmental policy
 Wurzel’s research on environmental leaders and structurally-disadvantaged cities/regions has
 led to extensive practitioner engagement in Bremerhaven, Brussels, Hull and elsewhere. He
 organised a CEUS Roundtable on Brexit (2018) and provided written evidence on Brexit and the
 Environment to the House of Lords EU Environment Sub-committee (2020). Wurzel represented
 the German Politics Specialist Group at a PSA-organised online roundtable European
 governments’ reaction to the COVID-19 crisis (2020). He has contributed to many international
 media organisations. Monaghan works with the Hansard Society as a member of the Academic
 Governing Board. Barnes has given evidence to Parliamentary Committees including: Lords
 Energy and Environment Sub-committee (2016, 2019); External Affairs and Additional
 Legislation Committee, National Assembly for Wales (2016); Environment, Food and Rural
 Affairs Committee (2017); Northern Ireland Affairs Committee (2018); Climate Change,
 Environment and Rural Affairs Committee, Welsh Assembly (2018, 2019, 2020); Committee on
 the Future Relationship with the EU (2020).

 Latin America
 Doctor engages in knowledge transfer and outreach, for example, as a speaker on the Latin
 America panel at the annual Oxford Analytical Global Horizons/International Conference (2002-
 2018); ‘European Strategies for Latin America: Cooperation and Challenges’, International
 Institute for Strategic Studies (2014); Annual Conference of the Association of Private Port
 Terminals , Brasilia (2018); Latin America 2019 Conference, Chatham House/Royal Institute of
 International Affairs, London (2019); consultant on political risk strategy workshops for Shell
 International’s Brazilian investments, and contributions to closed meetings/seminars at the
 Foreign and Commonwealth Office. Doctor is a Non-Executive Director for the BlackRock Latin

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 American Investment Trust, London (since 2010). She gives regular media interviews including
 three BBC programmes covering the 2018 Brazilian presidential elections.

 Middle East Study Group
 The MESG engages with local citizens and external groups to deliver influential academic
 insights to the public. It provides public forums for people of different nationalities to promote
 understanding of Middle East affairs and supports justice, human rights, women rights, minority
 rights, health rights, peace, security, the two-state solution (Israel and Palestine), as well as
 freedom of expression. Cohen-Almagor and Lord Parekh are involved in debates in the UK and
 abroad on topics such as the Arab-Israeli conflict, fighting terrorism and freedom of expression.
 Cohen-Almagor has spoken at the Oxford University and Cambridge University debating
 societies on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

 War Studies Research Group
 The Development, Concepts and Doctrine Centre (DCDC) consulted Martin on the UK’s Arctic
 Policy (2019). He attended meetings at MoD (London) and provided feedback on policy, and
 was invited to join the Royal Navy’s new Strategic Studies Centre in 2019. He was keynote
 speaker at NATO Symposiums in 2018 and 2019. He has been consulted by Humberside Police
 on maritime security and counterterrorism. Lonsdale established the 'DesignForSecurity' group
 with the School of Design, Leeds University. It has produced papers and the research project,
 'Handling and Communicating Intelligence Information', with the Office of Chief Scientific Advisor
 for National Security as well as a briefing, report and guidelines booklet for the OCSA. Lonsdale
 acted as syllabus advisor for the UK Defence Academy and was a member of the IISS/FCO
 Academic Network on Future Conflict and Cyber Security, advising the FCO.

 Throughout this REF period, the UOA has therefore continued to make significant contributions
 to the global research base, economy and society, while actively collaborating on innovative,
 impactful research, outreach and networking activities with researchers, practitioners and
 stakeholders in the UK and abroad which are in line with the UOA’s core research objectives.




                                                                                            Page 14
