Institution: Durham University (DU)
Unit of assessment: UoA15 Archaeology

Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
Archaeology at Durham has a worldwide reputation for research and impact that we always
aspire to enhance. Embracing humanities, social sciences and sciences, our inclusive
environment thrives upon collective endeavour and co-production and a commitment to
address challenges of local, national and global significance with a critical eye. With 30 FTE
Category A staff in this REF cycle, increasing numbers of projects, publications and
postgraduates, the Department has invested in both appointments and infrastructure which
have unlocked new pathways for research and engagement with a more diverse audience than
ever before. Our vitality can be measured through:

  our outputs;
  new appointments and infrastructure, which together drive greater diversity and excellence
   (including ECRs as defined by REF);
  a community of Post-Doctoral Researchers (PDRs) that has increased by over 90% in this
   REF cycle;
  Research Post-Graduate (PGR) completions up 76% (51.4 in REF2014, 90.65 in
   REF2021);
  consistent grant success across an increasingly diverse range of sponsors (GBP4.5M
   RAE2008, GBP8.1M REF2014, GBP15.6M REF2021);
  a more integrated commercial archaeology unit - Archaeological Services Durham
   University (ASDU) - that co-produces world class research and impact e.g. Nepal/Sri
   Lanka (ICS-Coningham-Accessible and Resilient Heritage in S Asia), China (Kennet-
   Palace Museum Beijing), Ukraine (Chapman-AHRC Tripillya Megasites), and is the key to
   our regional engagement (e.g. Gerrard/Graves-Auckland Castle) (S.4);
  a well-supported impact agenda which addresses major challenges for our discipline, e.g.
   heritage protection (ICS-Leone-Training in Action: North Africa and ICS-Coningham) and
   the social inequalities and injustices of the present (ICS-Gowland-Bodies of Evidence).

Research structures and strategic aims
Our research environment is structured around six Research and Impact Groups (RIGs), a
designation that reflects Durham’s drive to embed impact and co-production. Four RIGs
continue from REF2014; Bioarchaeology (BioA), Landscapes of Complex Society (LCS),
Northern Communities (NC) and Prehistoric Worlds (PW), while two have recently emerged
– Heritage Partnerships (HP), and Material and Visual Culture (MV). These changes have
enhanced vitality and global reach, multiplying and diversifying our partnerships (Figure 1).




                                                                                                 1
Figure 1: Global research activity by country (shaded purple) (above) and grant spend by
global region (below)

In REF2014 we identified seven Strategic Research Aims (SRA): (1) to apply emergent science
to rethink major cultural narratives; (2) to undertake meta-analysis; (3) to revitalise Durham’s
research on material culture; (4) to cross boundaries and take up inter-disciplinary challenges;
(5) to foster new research agendas; (6) to undertake new archaeological fieldwork and bring
projects to publication, and; (7) to enhance our research links with external organisations. We
have exceeded these expectations, our six RIGs driving an energetic and thriving research
culture centred on external collaboration and interdisciplinarity.



                                                                                               2
Bioarchaeology (BioA) is a world-leading group which applies emergent science to explore
different impacts on human and other animal populations (SRA1). Characterised by a breadth
of expertise and international partnerships in 30+ countries, BioA projects embrace diverse
geographical/temporal scales, set agendas and tackle ethical concerns. This RIG has
established new methods to explore human-environment interactions in marginal regions and
climate/change impacts (Milek-Living with Vikings); the dissemination/impact of agriculture
through plants, animals and diet (Church/Rowley-Conwy); and the mobility and dietary histories
of humans and animals (Montgomery-Food and Identity in Ireland) including a Bayesian mixing
model for the reconstruction of diet through isotopes (Millard-FRUITS). Research on the health
and well-being of varied demographic and social groups across the life course (RobertsC-
Global Health/Gowland-Mother-Child Nexus), in changing contexts (e.g. Gowland-
industrializing societies) and re-evaluations of past infectious diseases (e.g. RobertsC-leprosy,
treponemal disease) complement the use of metadata to explore long-term health trends and
inequalities (Gowland/Montgomery/Fernández-D/RobertsC) (SRA5). Methodological advances
by this RIG are demonstrably relevant to research on human identity and identification and
modern forensic contexts (Gowland/Montgomery-Peptides).

Landscapes of Complex Society (LCS) is a RIG of international significance generating
essential research on notions of temporary centres and early urbanism
(Chapman/Millard/ASDU/Moore,T) (SRA6). The Informatics Laboratory, a key resource for
LCS, exploits evidence from both fieldwork and remote sensing to identify and interpret
extensive trends in settlement and landscape change, such as the emergence of imperial
landscape signatures in Asia (Lawrence/Philip-Persia and Neighbours), while new projects on
slavery and inequality in Europe and the global south are opening up research possibilities on
colonialised landscapes in new regions (Gomes-C) (SRA2,5). Documentation and in-country
collaborations (e.g. Philip-EAMENA) have produced new data for palaeoclimate and landscape
productivity (Lawrence-Climate, Landscape, Settlement, Society). LCS also feeds into modern
environmental challenges, investigating past responses to risks and hazards, from earthquakes
in medieval Europe (Gerrard/Forlin) and South Asia (Coningham/Manuel/Davis) and the
dynamics of human inhabitation in the Nile Delta (Wilson), to hydraulic technologies in arid
landscapes (Bailiff/Jankowski). Fieldwork skills and large datasets generated by LCS projects
(SRA 2,5) also drive the work of the HP RIG in the Middle East, North Africa (MENA) and
South Asia (Philip/Leone/ Coningham), proving fundamental to the delivery of training to
partners in these regions.

Prehistoric Worlds (PW) continues to represent one of the key research strengths of Durham
archaeology with high-profile projects from Palaeolithic art and technology (Pettitt-Neanderthal
cave art; White-hand axes and cognition) to proto-urbanism and the origins/flows of metal in
later prehistoric Eurasia (Moore,T-Bagendon/Bibracte; Chapman-Trypillia mega-sites;
Roberts,B-copper/tin/bronze). This RIG sets agendas in early monumental architectures across
Europe (Scarre/Roberts,B/Díaz-G), in sensory experience (Skeates-Caves in Context; Scarre-
archaeoacoustics of Spanish cave art), and in digital visualisation (Díaz-G-Making a Mark)
(SRA5). Big Data projects explore engagement with the dead in Europe and the Middle East
(ME) over the longue durée (e.g. Scarre/Philip-Invisible Dead) (SRA3). PW’s success is
underpinned by high levels of interdisciplinarity (e.g. visual psychologists, acoustic scientists)
and collaborations with BioA (isotopes, aDNA and Neolithic-Bronze Age mobility and
transitions: Montgomery/Rowley-Conwy/Gron/Fernández-D/Skeates) (SRA1,4). PW is also
enhanced by high profile media work (Pettitt-BBC), community co-production
(Roberts,B/DigVentures-Barrowed Time) and planning policy engagement (White-
HS2/Aggregates; Moore,T-REFIT).

Material and Visual Culture (MV) represents a new research direction prompted by the
strategic appointments of Draycott, Díaz-G, Badreshany and Williams. This group has
enhanced connections with DU’s Centre for Visual Arts and Culture (CVAC), Museums Service
and Special Collections (SRA4). Projects frequently intersect with other RIGs, but are united by
a focus on artefacts, monuments and imagery that underpin some major grant wins (e.g.

                                                                                                     3
Semple-Worked in Stone/Corpus GBP578k). The RIG has revitalised our research on material
culture and fostered new research agendas on the materiality of religion, belief, and identity
(Brooks/Graves-Morton Cope/Draycott-iconography and identities), identifying new directions in
the symbolic, socio-cultural and economic dimensions of monuments and artefacts (Díaz-G
/Skeates/Pettitt) (SRA3,5). Members work with non-academic users to inform national and
international collections management practices and develop better protection against theft and
illicit trade (ICS-Leone). The group has given new impetus to artefact research, facilitated by
digital visualisation and recording tools (Díaz-G-Image Making and Mobility) with new analytical
facilities revitalising research on ceramics (Philip/Badreshany-CRANE) and metals (Roberts,B-
copper/tin/bronze) (SRA3).

Northern Communities (NC) successfully expands our interests in north-east England and
addresses a broader North European, Atlantic and Arctic context, engaging with research in
BioA on marginal zones, climatic pressures and human-animal mobility
(Church/Milek/Montgomery) and undertaking interdisciplinary, large-scale explorations of the
lifeways and challenges facing northern communities (Semple/Gowland-People and Place)
(SRA1). This RIG sets agendas and advises key stakeholders in NE England, e.g. Petts-
Durham World Heritage Site (WHS), has extended public understanding of archaeology
through a major exhibition and spin-off activities on the Scottish Soldiers excavated at Palace
Green by ASDU (Annis/Graves and others) and has embarked on an ambitious Heritage
Lottery (HLF) funded-engagement programme to extend archaeological skills to NE
communities, enabling research co-production (Petts/ASDU-Belief in the North; Roberts,C-St
Aidan’s church and crypt, Bamburgh HLF) (SRA7). NC extends its reach by exploring recent
social inequalities through Landscapes of the Great Depression (Petts), and new narratives
concerning the health of industrial communities (Gowland/Millard) (SRA4).

Heritage Partnerships (HP) marks a step-change in our engagement with cultural heritage
protection. Fieldwork-driven evaluation of key monuments and landscapes (ICS-Coningham),
and collaborations drawing on remote sensing methods generated in LCS, have created
extensive new base-level datasets (Philip/Lawrence-EAMENA) that underpin knowledge
exchange, training, advocacy and the creation of new toolkits to assess and mitigate threats to
heritage (ICS-Leone-HeDAP; ICS-Coningham-risk maps) (SRA2,5,6). Co-production and
responsiveness to local needs are foundational: for example, we work in the UK with the
National Trust (Skeates) and Historic Environment Scotland (Milek/Church), and with national
and transnational heritage bodies overseas. We connect communities with their living religious
heritage (e.g. Coningham/Petts pilgrimage sites in S Asia/UK), and work with disadvantaged
communities in Europe and the global south, engaging them with the ‘uncomfortable heritage’
of their recent past (e.g. Gomes-C-archaeologies of enforced migration) (SRA5,7). We have
mobilised our practitioner expertise to lead on heritage conservation agendas e.g. with the
World Heritage Institute of Training and Research for Asia (Brooks) and ICOM-CC (Williams),
and collaborate on training in museum skills in Jordan (Skeates/Badran-AHRC Newton award).

Powerful synergies between these RIGs create greater vibrancy in our research environment.
Analysis of landscapes, archaeomaterials and isotopic analysis in combination, for example, is
illuminating the organisation of commercial networks linking East Asia with the Mediterranean
(Kennet/Zhang/Gerrard) and the exploitation of Bronze Age tin sources in Europe and the ME
(Roberts,B/Badreshany). Research is also underpinned by major fieldwork programmes, e.g.
Pettitt/White/Skeates-prehistoric cave sites, Scarre/Díaz-G-Neolithic/Bronze Age monuments in
the UK and Iberia, Moore,T-Iron-Age oppida, and often integrates commercial archaeology with
community participation and training e.g. Holy Island (Petts) and Auckland Castle
(Gerrard/Graves).

As new research ideas emerge, so our RIGs have developed, creating a flexible ecosystem of
loosely joined users and research partners. After reviewing our REF2014 strategic research
aims in 2016 and again in 2019 in response to the university’s Research Strategy 2017-27, we
can demonstrate significant and sustained progress in all seven SRAs. Research coherence

                                                                                                  4
and collaboration is driven by department seedcorn funds, horizon-scanning by the Director of
Research (DoR) and Research Office (RO) and opportunities for discussion at Research
Committee (RC). We do not set financial targets but expect RIGs to deliver across a mixed
portfolio of grants, publications, partnerships, impact and public engagement and PGR
recruitment. Success is monitored by Research Committee (RC), chaired by the DoR and
comprises the Head of Department (HoD), RIG convenors and PDR and PGR representatives.
RC offers support and encourages change, where required. Annual Research Away Days
provide opportunities to think ‘outside the box’ and inform our research strategy; the Board of
Studies confirms policy changes.

With an eye for interdisciplinarity and reach we have appointed Professors in Practice to
ensure better connections between Durham’s research and the world beyond academia.
Wilson (2019-Historic England) provides expertise in the historic environment and Staniforth
(2019-ex-National Trust) on the conservation of historic structures. They also sit on our newly
established International Advisory Board alongside Battle-Baptise (UoMassachusetts
Amherst-historical archaeology/African diaspora), Heron (BM-archaeological science),
Holbrook (Cotswold Archaeology-commercial archaeology/industry), Jing (UoBritish Columbia-
East Asian archaeology/material culture), and Meskell (UoPennsylvania-ethnography/heritage).
Members serve a term of 3 years and bring knowledge/experience of national/international
priorities to the Department, strengthening the reach and direction of our RIGs and enabling us
to use our research (and teaching) to network with a changing world.

Future strategic goals
Building on this interdisciplinary focus, the strength and structure of our research environment
and the vitality of our RIGs, our vision is to:

   1) rethink narratives around major episodes of change in human communities (e.g
      emergence of inequality, health challenges, urbanism, ancient empires, major
      diasporas) (LCS, NC);
   2) set new agendas for understanding human resilience and survival in relation to
      challenging environments, catastrophes, and disease, and to assess their impact on the
      well-being of past and present communities (BioA, NC);
   3) pioneer new questions/narratives around cognitive evolution and technological change
      among early human populations, exploring monumentality, sensual experiences, and
      material and visual cultures (PW, MV);
   4) advance a regional to global vision for a broader and sustainable programme of
      archaeological skills training and education which is relevant to emerging economic,
      social and political challenges, working in partnership with national/transnational
      agencies (HP, NC);
   5) integrate our research and commercial infrastructure (BioA, MV, HP);
   6) collect and analyse exciting new primary data through innovative programmes of
      problem-oriented field and laboratory-based research (all RIGs).

In these ways we will mobilise our research to develop a globally relevant research
environment, meeting some of the world’s key sustainable development goals (SDGs) (Figure
2).




                                                                                                   5
                  Figure 2: Making our research relevant to global challenges


Supporting interdisciplinarity
Staff in Archaeology not only initiate research projects beyond our discipline (e.g. Millard/Earth
Sciences-Bayesian chronologies for Cambrian explosion), we also engage substantively with
our DU Research Institutes (URIs) who provide a platform for broader critical inquiry.
Coningham, Millard and Petts have all been Associate Directors of the Institute of Medieval
and Early Modern Studies, which takes responsibility for Durham’s UNESCO WHS, and that
Institute has supported 13 separate research activities/events (GBP11.9k), as well as major
grant successes (e.g. Semple-Worked in Stone/Corpus). The Institute of Advanced Studies
enables interdisciplinary collaborations with visiting researchers (e.g. Crossland from Colombia
U combines forensic theory and BioA; Stago from Genoa U combines landscape archaeology
with historical ecology in the study of common land), strengthened and endorsed grant
applications (e.g. Gerrard-JPICH/AHRC funds) and funded Fellowships with term-long buyouts
(Milek/Church). Our impact has strengthened our partnership with Durham’s Oriental Museum
whose curatorial/outreach staff have co-designed learning resources and exhibitions for public
education with us (e.g. ICS-Coningham S Asia; Kennet/Zhang-Beijing Palace Museum
Project). Interdisciplinarity at all levels is evidenced by co-supervised doctoral projects (e.g.
with Anthropology-Gowland/Larson/Philip; Earth Sciences-Gowland/Philip; Geography-
Gerrard/Leone/Kennet/Wilkinson; History-Gerrard/Graves/Semple; Physics-Bailiff) and co-
produced grant successes (e.g. Millard/Leverhulme-Earth Sciences; Rowley-
Conwy/Leverhulme-Geography), while participation in DUs new Global Challenges Centre for
Doctoral Training (25 studentships 2019-2021) has allowed Archaeology to progress doctoral
projects aligned to UN SDGs for citizens of developing nations (Coningham) (Figure 2).
                                                                                                     6
Promoting a culture of research integrity
Our research culture is informed by institutional policies (REF5a/2.3). Training for staff on good
research practice and governance is delivered by the Durham Centre for Academic
Development, with additional activities conducted within the department. All research projects
(staff, PDR, PGR) are guided by the Ensuring Sound Conduct in Research code of practice,
which ensures that staff are fully briefed on ethics. Documentation must be approved by our
departmental Ethics Committee and, where appropriate, the Faculty Ethics Committee. Given
our global reach, the conduct of research must be open, inclusive and relate to the wider policy
objectives of stakeholders (e.g. Moore,T’s REFIT project investigates land ownership,
designations and notions of public interest in the UK, Germany and France). The UNESCO
Chair in Archaeological Ethics and Practice in Cultural Heritage (Coningham), one of only 3
UNESCO Chairs in archaeology worldwide, was created in 2014 “to initiate programmes that
advance teaching, learning and research in areas that are a priority for UNESCO”. Our
UNESCO team has been co-designing solutions and training programmes to encourage
heritage protection alongside inclusive participation, development and promotion at living
heritage sites. The appropriation of cultural artefacts is addressed by e.g. Leone (ICS), while
the ethics of excavation/exhumation and examination of human remains has been unpacked in
high profile legal contexts (ICS-Gowland) and explored through two FutureLearn Massive Open
Online Courses (MOOC) in 2019 with 26,000 learners between them to date
(Gowland/Gerrard/Roberts,C). We have contributed to both the 2019 BABAO Codes of Ethics,
Practice and Digital Imaging and the Codes of Practice of the American Association of Physical
Anthropologists Repatriation Committee (Roberts,C).

Progressing towards an Open Research environment
Our output return is 100% compliant with the REF Open Access rules, and we celebrate the
improved research visibility afforded by OA. 800+ departmental outputs are freely available
through our institutional repository, Durham Research Online (see REF5a/2.4), with over
20,000 downloads to 50+ countries during this REF cycle. We have also published 50+ Gold
OA journal outputs since REF2014 using the institutional RCUK Block Grant, support from
grant bodies such as Historic Environment Scotland, departmental funding, and international
publisher deals, and are moving towards OA for fieldwork monographs (e.g. Bagendon,
Paithan). A high proportion of OA papers are co-produced with PGRs and PDRs (20+), many
of these supported by departmental funds. Our data in public archives are well used (e.g. Trent
Valley Project-White 1000+ page views and Wearmouth-Jarrow-Semple 2300+ page views,
600+ downloads through ADS). Major funded projects enable the free release of substantive
data sets (e.g. Worked in Stone/Corpus – since 2017 13 volumes released OA, catalogue
entries for 3505 monuments and 9792 images, registering 21,418 separate users and 454,167
unique page views worldwide). We also commit to OA by freely releasing our commercial grey
literature reports with 95% of ASDU output publicly available online (c.2650 reports since
REF2014). The university Research Data Management Policy, effective from August 2017,
guides the governance, storage, and disposal of research data. The university Research Data
Service supports staff on best practice regarding data access.
Section 2. People

Staffing and recruitment
Since 2014, six colleagues are no longer at Durham; Larson and Richards moved institutions,
Caple and Chapman retired, Wilkinson sadly died, and Sewell left academia. Our seven new
appointments have been calibrated around our research and impact strategy, and we have
sought out new skills. Long and short-lists are always representative of disciplinary diversity
and academic demographic, pushing our recruitment worldwide. The University Strategy urges
us to employ ‘the very best people and let them pursue their research interests in a cooperative
and well supported working environment.’ We aim to do so.


                                                                                                   7
Three appointments have strengthened existing research areas. Lawrence (LCS) brings
expertise in remote sensing and GIS and the Middle East. Fernández-D (BioA) has capitalised
on investment to develop and deliver our new aDNA laboratory, while Díaz-G (PW/MV)
combines work on Neolithic Europe with expertise in digital imaging. Taking us in new
directions, Milek’s skills in geoarchaeology and interests in the North Atlantic create synergies
with NC and LCS. Gomes-C’s work in South Atlantic empires, supported by start-up funds for
work in Guinea Bissau, underscores our growing interest in colonialism and globalisation in HP
and LCS, while Draycott’s focus on ancient art is fundamental to the new MV RIG and
collaborations with Durham’s Centre for Visual Arts and Culture. Williams, appointed on the
teaching track, brings international practitioner expertise. Investment in the Durham
Archaeomaterials Research Centre (DARC) and our strategy to appoint laboratory managers
fusing research/commercial roles for sustainability (Andrieux/Badreshany/Moore,J) have
delivered a step-change in our capability in archaeometric, isotopic methods, material culture
research and commercial analysis (see below S.3).

Current staff (PDRs see definition on p.1)
There have been 19 academic staff promotions since REF2014, all but one of our Cat A
appointments being on non-fixed term contracts. Our emeriti still contribute to long-standing
projects, both through publication (e.g. Chapman/Millard-Trypillia megasites), and grant-
winning (e.g. Cramp/Semple-Worked in Stone/Corpus). Since our major recruitment in 2004-
06, staff retention has been outstanding with substantive leadership development. Of this
cohort Coningham, Scarre and Semple have all served as HoD, while junior appointees
Church, Gowland, Leone, Semple have been promoted to Grade 10. Major administrative roles
are allocated on a 3-year cycle to ensure succession planning, with care taken to balance roles
according to gender. Senior staff chair committees or hold roles outside the Department (e.g.
Gowland Associate Exec-Dean for People and Culture in Faculty of Social Sciences and
Health; Roberts,C on University REF Steering Group). They also support the development of
PDRs, ECRs and ‘consolidator’ staff (the cohort above ERCs). The latter often hold deputy
roles (e.g. Milek as DHoD), while ECRs assume entry-level administrative roles. The unit
engages fully with Postdoctoral Research Fellow (PDRF) schemes such as Marie-Curie (8
since REF2014), British Academy (1), University Co-Fund Fellowships (5) and Newton
schemes (Gron). In REF2021 we registered 52 PDRs, compared to 27 in REF2014, reflecting a
rapid growth in grant funding.

Staff development strategy
We foster a safe and inclusive environment that nurtures personal development for all. We
welcome PDRs and academic staff with a Department and DU induction programme ensuring
they can quickly learn the University's policies, processes and practices and feel at home in
their new environment. A 1-year probation period allows for an intensive supportive approach
with regular mentor meetings aligned to research, teaching and citizenship targets. In line with
this, in 2019/20, we expanded our existing mentoring for probationers/ECRs/ PDRs to a formal
mentoring programme for all academic staff, recognizing that experienced staff can also benefit
from support.

We empower our PDRs and ECRs and celebrate all staff achievements. PDRs are encouraged
to join the Research Staff Association, est. 2014 (see REF5a/3.4) and all are offered Annual
Review appraisals with full access to bespoke and University training (e.g. GIS training spring
2019 for incoming PDRs). We have adopted the 2019 Concordat for the Career Development
of Researchers and PIs are fully engaged with PDRA progression. Our PDRs and ECRs play a
key role in organising RIGs and a PDR representative sits on Research Committee and we
support their career progression through training/workshops (e.g. around Impact and Brexit
uncertainty), skills audits and interview training. We encourage PDRs/ERCs to maintain
publication streams arising from their doctorates or previous projects, and support conference
attendance and project start-ups. We have met c.50 PDR requests for funding since 2016,
granting up to GBP600 per/person (e.g. Hopper-Tiblisi; Orsini-Corsica). PDRs and ECRs make

                                                                                                    8
vital contributions as partners in our research and through the development of impact (e.g.
Nebbia/Leone ICS). They are fully supported to submit grant applications via scoping meetings,
pitch-to-peers ideas sessions (e.g. via NERC, AHRC liaison groups), peer-review and
feedback, and mock panels (e.g. Lawrence ERC Starting Grant), and to engage in major
international collaborations (Fernández-D-Kinship Structure of the World’s First
Houses/Roberts,B-Tin in Bronze Age Europe).

The benefits of training at Durham are evidenced by the 220+ outputs co-produced by Durham
Category A staff and PDRs since REF2014 (that is 35%+ of our total), and the progression of
many PDRs to competitive university positions e.g. UoBologna (Pucci-D), UoBordeaux chaire
junior (Lopez-R/Sparacello), Bryn Mawr (Bradbury), East Washington University (Buchanan),
prestigious research posts e.g. the Max Planck (Perri), UCL (Nebbia), UoWollongong
(Jankowski), CISC (Utrero-A) and to senior national appointments e.g. Minister of Culture Iraq
(al-Dafar), Director for Museums Saudi Arabia (Alonasi).

Our REF management group, whose remit integrates all research and impact activity, meets
regularly with academic staff to maximise output quality, advising on publication and open
access requirements, and to highlight opportunities for collaboration. Staff are offered individual
advice on their publications, grant proposals, research and impact plans. The Department
Progression and Promotion Committee (DPPC) reviews academic staff and PDR performance
annually, providing written and verbal feedback. We link our REF management group and
DPPC guidance to our formal mentoring programme by encouraging staff to share
recommendations with their mentors in discussions around career development.

Meetings with staff by the REF management group identify and mobilise support for emergent
impact (GBP22k in support for new initiatives since REF2014 e.g. RobertsC-skeleton science
for care-home residents). Impact is embedded in PDR/ECR experience through annual impact
workshops. ICS authors have meetings to review needs and receive departmental investment
(GBP28k since REF2014) and prepare bids to the University’s Research Impact Fund
(c.GBP43k awarded for 11 projects) (REF5a/2.5). These initiatives have raised staff profiles
through e.g. co-production of new modes of visitor engagement with the National Trust
(Skeates), and by sponsoring free places for regional police on our Body Recovery CDP
training programme (Gowland). We encourage grants and projects where research directly
underpins impact-facing agendas e.g. REFIT funded by Joint Programming Initiative on
Cultural Heritage and Global Change (JPICH Moore,T) and AHRC follow-on funding for impact
and engagement for Tales of the Frontier (Hingley).

Academic and business exchange is stimulated by trustees (Gerrard-Cotswold Archaeology),
Northern Bridge AHRC placements and collaborative projects with social businesses (e.g.
DigVentures). Our investment in infrastructure and technical expertise has significantly
increased DU’s commercial activity and facilitated knowledge exchange with 50+ businesses
(see below). Over 30 staff have undertaken continuing professional development ranging from
national qualifications in health and safety (NEBOSH) to postgraduate awards in archaeology
and business management via DU programmes, while impact and engagement activity is
integral to the University’s Academic Progression process (e.g. instrumental to Leone/Gowland
to Grade 10).

Supporting research
Our Workload Model affords 20% time for research for all Cat A staff, with additional allocations
for doctoral supervision, the management of major grants and research activities including
impact. Since 2014 we have weighted research and impact activities equally. All Category A
staff had University research leave within this REF cycle (55 terms granted overall to 30
members of staff; equally weighted M/F), with additional leave for impact-related work for
Leone and Gowland. We offer 1 term of leave in 7 with pro rata arrangements for p/t
colleagues. Teaching and technical staff have 1 day per week for practitioner research and
development. Those with caring responsibilities or health issues are equally supported with
                                                                                                  9
temporarily reduced teaching and citizenship loads and extra research leave granted to 4+
colleagues following major heath and caring issues.

Staff are assisted throughout the research process from application to post-award. The DoR
and Senior Research Administrator work with Research and Innovation Services (RIS) to
horizon-scan for new funding opportunities, identify strategic changes in the funding climate,
and work with individuals and RIG teams to develop new bids and support them with start-up
funding. We specifically offer annual seedcorn funding to sustain PDRs/ECRs with independent
projects and grant-bids of their own (GBP14,600 since c.2017).

Research Committee reviews grant applications, successes, and impact activities to monitor
RIG performance, identify good practice and offer feedback. The new university progression
framework embeds equity of opportunity for mentoring, feedback and promotion.

The university’s Research Grant Incentive Scheme draws down 10% of net research grant
overheads into staff research accounts; a similar sum goes to the department budget. ‘These
incentives are carried forward and used flexibly to support research objectives’ (REF5a/3.3),
e.g. enabling illustration/editing to ensure timely completion, meeting OA costs for publication
of major fieldwork monographs (e.g. Bagendon, Paithan, Tiber Valley). This scheme also
facilitates strategic investment, enabling PIs to develop major collaborative grant bids e.g. ERC
Lawrence.

Training and supervision of research students
Durham has attracted outstanding doctoral students, recruiting 13.5 FTE p/a since REF2014.
We seek synergies with our RIGs and our infrastructural investment to build research
momentum, working to secure internal and external funding. During this cycle 37 RCUK
studentships were awarded and 10 Durham Doctoral Studentships. A further 33 students have
had partial or full funding support from a variety of UK and international awards, enhanced by
collaborations with external organisations such as museums (e.g. Davies-Barrett AHRC CDA
with BM; Prosser AHRC CDA with NMS). Both Semple (2015) and Gerrard (2018) have won
awards for Excellence in Doctoral Supervision (nominated by their students). Cross-institutional
supervisions are discussed in S.4.

We appraise the training needs of doctoral students on arrival, then annually, ensuring their
access to a wide-ranging departmental training programme with more than 20+ events through
the year. We meet the PGR cohort regularly to discuss their experience: individual students
record supervisory outcomes monthly in online blogs. Annual reviews monitor progress and
supervision, and incoming students have the option of a second year PGR mentor to advise
them.

We view PGRs as partners and offer desks in shared offices in the Department. They have first
class IT facilities (e.g. 13 high-spec workstations in the Informatics Lab), the same access to
inter-library loans as staff and are able to recommend library purchases. PGRs play a full role
in the Departmental seminars and RIG activities (all are members of at least one RIG), which
they help to shape as well as running their own seminar series. Our Research Dialogues
programme provides funding (GBP500) for larger PGR-led thematic workshops (e.g.
Archaeological Pedagogy in a Global World; Climate Change and Human Society). Some of
these events have led to edited books (e.g. Gowland with PGRs for Care in the Past, 2017).
Students can apply every year to our internal funds for conferences and travel (c.GBP7500
annually) and they are supported to apply for external funding. We deliver annual impact
workshops for our PDRAs/PGRs and use seedcorn (22k since REF2014) to support new
engagement and impact initiatives (e.g. workshops for pupils with learning needs, Jarrow Hall
(Mui, PhD, 2015-16), as well as encouraging impact-related PGR projects (e.g. Laidler, AHRC-
funded PhD 2019, The Impact of Archaeology in NE England).


                                                                                                10
Training for teaching is well-established with 36+ PGRs opting to take the Durham Excellence
in Learning and Teaching Award, which leads to Associate membership of Advance HE.
Outside the department, the Durham Centre for Academic Development (DCAD) offers a
comprehensive Researcher Development Programme with training in languages, academic
writing, skills support, numeracy and time management, for example. The Maths and Stats Lab
offers resources, courses and a drop-in service. The Durham Counselling Service organises
well-being workshops and generous time allowances are given for PGRs with family needs,
alongside relocation advice and information on schools and full access to University Hardship
Funds. The University’s Careers and Enterprise Centre (CEC) delivers employability skills
through workshops given by graduate employers. Our membership of NERC and AHRC
doctoral training centres also provides bespoke training (e.g. GIS, photogrammetric
techniques) while AHRC placements are well used (e.g. Current Archaeology magazine,
Suffolk County Council, and museums including BM and Moesgaard). Placements are also
offered through ASDU: PGRs Evans and Treasure being employed full-time following the
completion of their PhDs.

We have a high doctoral completion rate - 83% within 4 years (90.65 completions: 61%F,
39%M) - while 80+% of this cycle’s cohort have academic publications arising from their
theses. Those co-authored with staff include Church/Treasure (2014 PPS prize-winning UG
dissertation published 2017 in Environmental Archaeology), Semple/Mui (co-editing Life on the
Edge volume). Continuing Professional Development is vital to ‘work-readiness’ and is
promoted through the department, colleges, and the University’s CEC which partners with
leading employers. In this cycle we have started a PGR and PDR development series (grant
writing, Open Access, REF, achieving impact) while a Careers Day in March 2020 included a
PDRA-PGR session focused on honing applications for post-doctoral positions.

                                                   No. of Individuals
               Academic/University teaching post           11
               University post-doctoral researcher         33
               Other HE                                     3
               HE (total)                                  47
               Commercial archaeology/consultancy          17
               Heritage/museums                            12
               Professional Archaeology (total)            29
               Government                                   3
               Education                                    2
               Industry / Business                          7
               Destination unknown                          9
               Total                               97 (90.65 FTE)

Table 1: Destinations of PhD completions in this REF cycle

Durham PGRs have gained academic positions at York (Piper) and Bahrain University
(Alsadeqi), joined Heritage Malta (Azzopardi), the National Museum Service in Saudi Arabia
(Alonazi), and taken-up PDRF positions globally including a British Academy Fellowship
(Panayides) and a Leverhulme Study Abroad Studentship (Brown). Our PGR employability is
strong (Table 1) with 47% now in HE employment.

Equality and diversity
We are leaders in EDI at Durham: two of our staff sit on the University’s Athena SWAN self-
assessment team and one on the University’s Race Equality Charter self-assessment team. As
Faculty Lead for EDI since 2019, Gowland is addressing structural inequities across Durham’s
four Faculties. We are a welcoming, multicultural and inclusive department: our PGRs, for
example, have enrolled in Archaeology from 43 countries from across Africa, the Americas,
Europe and Asia. We foster an ethos of care for everyone and support colleagues with difficult
                                                                                             11
personal circumstances to continue their research and impact work by reallocating teaching
and service activity. Since 2018 we have trained four mental health first aiders and hosted joint
staff-student events to increase awareness of mental health issues. We have implemented fully
the university’s policies on work-life balance and wellbeing, supporting three late career staff to
move to fractional contracts, ensuring pro-rata research leave (9 terms), and assisting grant
applications and publication (e.g. Bailiff OSL).

Gender
The award of Athena Swan Bronze in 2017 confirms our work in relation to gender and our
application was used as an exemplar by AdvanceHE. A departmental submission for Silver is
planned for 2021. Gender ratios among Cat A staff have moved from 70:30 (REF2014 M:F) to
60:40 (REF2021) and 10 of the 19 academic promotions in this cycle have been achieved by
female staff, while 33% of Grade 10 staff are female, compared to 8% in REF2014. This we
attribute to: 1) the new Department Progression and Promotion Committee (DPPC) which
reviews all staff annually against transparent benchmark criteria; 2) the growing contribution of
impact activity in promotion decisions, and; 3) a greater awareness of gender and
intersectional issues within the Unit e.g. gender bias in publishing was evaluated by our staff
working for Antiquity.

Since 2018 our Workload Model has measured load by gender and seniority leading to
transparency of workload, roles, and improved opportunities for progression. With 50% of
current male Professors aged 60+, and fractional contracts now a late career option, we will
soon attain gender parity. Among PDRs, 57% are female, from 8+ countries, while 61% of our
PhD completions in this cycle were female.

Parental leave
Since REF2014 we have supported 7 periods of paternity and one of maternity leave, granting
all requests to return to work part-time as part of shared parental leave. Research-active staff
returning from a period of 26 weeks or more family-related leave are eligible for one term of
research leave to be taken within 12 months of their return. The Department modified individual
loads on their return to deliver research time and resilience. PGRs are supported in terms of
family and caring needs too, and we have set up a new forum for students with caring
responsibilities to gain insight into how this impacts on their studies and their ability to integrate
with the academic community.


Diversity
We acknowledge the need for a change in culture around diversity in our discipline. During this
REF cycle we have held events marking International Women’s Day (IWD – Figure 3) and
promoted new diversity initiatives. These addressed intersectional issues faced by female
students and staff including those with disabilities and from widening participation
backgrounds.




                                                                                                    12
                           Figure 3: Departmental event, IWD2017

A focus on inclusivity and building a sense of community has also been placed at the heart of
our Covid online teaching strategy for 20/21. In 2020 six female staff were nominated as
Durham Women Making a Difference by students and peers – the highest from any Durham
Department. We have also created guidance for staff and students on countering and reporting
sexual harassment in the classroom and the field, and held meetings with Durham Students’
Union, and Durham’s People of Colour Association to inform our approach in developing a
sense of belonging for our people of colour.

We have established a working group on decolonising the curriculum that includes staff and
students and draws upon cross-Department expertise (led by Draycott/Coelho-G), evidenced
by Draycott’s Sapiens commentary (32752 views and named best paper 2020). We have seen
a modest, but growing, number of BAME staff among our PDR community, and an increase in
short-term academic visitors and digital collaborations with colleagues in the global south
through the GCRF and Newton (staff from National Museum of Jordan) schemes. Our 2019-20
seminar series is balanced in terms of diversity and gender and we had three dedicated
speakers for Black History month. We have welcomed BAME representation on our Advisory
Board (Battle-Baptiste/Jing) to help us develop a more effective research environment for
attracting and nurturing BAME talent in Archaeology. In 2019 we enhanced our approach to
widening participation, establishing a Mature Students Representative, and we launched a joint
initiative with Anthropology for First Generation students, built around staff with similar
trajectories. Our MOOCS offer free learning accessible to individuals with impaired
hearing/sight, or literacy and numeracy needs and have reached 22600 learners from 150+
countries, many with limited access to world-class learning. This density of work around EDI
challenges led to a specific, named commendation for Archaeology in the independent Durham
Respect Commission Report in 2020 for its ‘cohesive environment’.

Our selection of outputs for REF2021 follows the University’s code of practice and is shaped by
an Equality Impact Assessment (REF5a/3.6) which monitors by gender, grade etc. Our REF
Management Group also reflects unit gender ratios. In this cycle staff were supported
according to overall workload and personal circumstances through:
1) additional time in our workload model and strategic use of research leave;
                                                                                             13
2) individual research meetings to establish possible REF outputs. All members of staff were
involved in initial reading of potential REF submissions, reducing to a smaller reading group in
2018 (5m:4f), and steered by a REF Management Group (3m:2f). The final selection ensures
fair representation of all categories of staff and research areas;
3) separate impact meetings with members of our REF Management Group;
4) Departmental/university funding to support the completion of outputs and impact.

Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income
Our total research income over the REF2021 period was GBP15.6m, an increase of 92% on
REF2014 (Figure 4); this came from over 160 awards. We do not set individual targets for grant
capture, as we understand that grants are not required for some research. We believe that
delivery should be appropriate to research area and career-stage, with grants forming part of a
diverse research and impact portfolio. Staff are encouraged to develop strong projects to which
they are personally committed, and we work with grant applicants to support them through the
process through mentoring and internal peer review. Innovations include a dedicated ‘account
manager’ from RIS, while a Research Development Manager within RIS identifies funding
opportunities.

A notable highlight in this REF cycle is that 30 projects awarded GBP100k+ are spread across
17 staff (59%, up from 31% in REF2014); over 50% of Cat A staff were PI/CI on RCUK awards.
Every RIG has captured significant funding: in LCS Persia and its neighbours: the archaeology
of Late Imperial power in Iran (Philip, GBP667k-led by Edinburgh); in MV Worked in Stone:
completing the corpus of Anglo-Saxon stone sculpture (Semple/Cramp, GBP578k); in PW
British tin sources and trade in Bronze Age Europe (Roberts,B, GBP404k); in NC Iron Age and
Roman Identity (Hingley, GBP303k), The Great Depression in Northern England (Petts,
GBP255k), Funerary landscapes and social change in early medieval northwest Europe
AD400-900 (Mees/Semple, GBP236k); in HP Risk and resilience during/after earthquakes
(Gerrard, GBP284k). Several projects bridge more than one RIG e.g.Viking social space (Milek,
GBP311k, NC/BioA) and People and Place: Creating the Kingdom of Northumbria AD300-800
(Semple/Gowland/Millard/Montgomery, GBP275k, NC/BioA), others demonstrate external
collaboration e.g. Climate, Landscape, Settlement and Society, Exploring Human-Environment
Interaction in the Ancient Near East (Lawrence, GBP1.6M-Tübingen/Leeds, LCS).




                                                                                                   14
                   Figure 4: Research spend comparison REF2014 and 2021

Another significant achievement stems from our impact expertise in the LCS and HP
RIGs. By sharing practice, Philip, Leone and Coningham have leveraged over GBP2m to
support heritage training and protection. The multi-institutional EAMENA project garnered
funds from Arcadia (Philip-GBP160k), while both EAMENA and Training in Action (ICS-Leone)
have benefited from the Cultural Protection Fund (GBP970k total). Two AHRC-Newton awards
have supported collaborative research projects with Jordanian partners that address United
Nations SDGs (Skeates-museum interpretation GBP193k; Philip/Montgomery-multi-isotope
environmental mapping GBP200k). Our UNESCO Chair Coningham has accumulated grants in
excess of GBP1.23m from sources including UNESCO, GCRF and National Geographic (ICS-
Coningham).

With the growing need for research to benefit society and demonstrate value through the public
and private sectors, our activities will continue to evolve. We aim to maintain our core funding,
e.g. from AHRC and Leverhulme, while growing grant capture in interdisciplinary areas (e.g.
NERC, GCRF), in particular through strategic collaborations, and as part of consortia both
within and outside the university. We are also working with the university development office to
renew focus on private funding and partners (e.g. private donation of GBP25k for Binchester
post-excavation from Michael Binns) and exploring the research potential of donor legacies
(Isobel Fleck for PDRs).

To revitalise our income base for the future, we have made our new facilities sustainable by
broadening our engagement with industrial partners. Since 2017 our laboratories have worked
with 53 clients generating income of GBP134k which underpins dedicated PDRA manager
roles in archaeomaterials (Badreshany), isotopes (Moore,J) and luminescence (Andrieux).
These staff provide high-quality support for research projects, enhanced training for
PGRs/PDRs, and have much improved the delivery of laboratory services for our commercial
and research partners, building an international research and business client base for the first
time. As a result, we are now expanding this concept to Conservation and exploring
possibilities in aDNA with the aim of providing new and integrated opportunities for our full suite
of laboratories.


                                                                                                 15
Infrastructure and facilities
The Dawson Building houses the following facilities: the Fenwick Human Osteology
Laboratory (Roberts,C/Gowland) is dedicated to the study of human remains with major
skeletal collections held in the department which underpin Gowland’s ICS. The Informatics
Laboratory (Lawrence) lies at the heart of LCS. Besides state-of-the-art computer facilities for
remote sensing and GIS, we have 12Tb of dedicated server space holding important digital
datasets including maps, satellite and aerial imagery, and Digital Elevation Models. This
supports research (e.g. ERC grant, GBP1.1m, PI Lawrence) and impact generation in LCS, HP
and MV, through e.g. image analysis and photogrammetry (e.g. Leone ICS), and from 2021/22
through EAMENA will host a freely accessible archive of historic aerial and satellite imagery
that will contribute directly to international research on landscape change and emerging threats
to heritage.

The Luminescence Laboratory (Bailiff with Andrieux) has full facilities for dating projects, e.g.
on ancient irrigation and terracing systems (Bailiff et al. 2020 J of Arid Environments), but also
for fundamental research, including development of instrumentation via access to the
University’s high performance computing network. The Environmental and Archaeological
Science Laboratories (Church/Milek) are used for geoarchaeology, archaeobotany,
zooarchaeology and wet chemistry. We hold archaeobotanical and zooarchaeological
reference collections of international standing, underpinning multiple grants and projects (e.g.
Leverhulme GBP190k grant, PI Rowley-Conwy leading to prize-winning output Gron et al. 2018
PPS). Our Isotope Laboratories (Millard/Montgomery, with Moore,J) process both animal and
environmental samples. Archaeology hosts a Stable Isotope Biogeochemistry Laboratory
(SIBL) which is shared with Earth Sciences, and has reciprocal access to their facilities for
radiogenic isotopes (Pb, Sr). Investments in this cycle have vastly increased our capacity to
develop projects involving large-scale analytical programmes (e.g. multi-isotope map of Jordan,
Philip/Montgomery, AHRC GBP200k), and resulted in over 10 grants awarded from a diverse
range of UK and international funding bodies as well as over 30 papers published in
international peer-reviewed journals.

The Conservation Laboratory (Williams) supplies conservation services for research and
commercial purposes. The Durham Archaeomaterials Research Centre (DARC)
(Badreshany) performs instrumental analyses including scanning electron microscopy and
SEM-EDS, X-ray fluorescence spectrometry, Fourier Transform infra-red spectroscopy,
reflectance spectrophotometry, petrology, microscopy, the digital imaging of archaeological
materials and 3D printing, and works closely with Earth Sciences where ICP facilities are
available. Our enhanced capabilities in the analysis of archaeomaterials have shaped the MV
RIG and underpin new research on archaeomaterials (e.g. Badreshany et al. 2019 Levant).
The DNA Laboratories (Fernández-D) extract DNA from ancient and modern and forensic
tissues, and with appropriate technical support in place, are generating new research data and
publications (e.g. innovative insect aDNA paper co-authored by Fernández-D and MSc student
Simpson for JAS in 2020).

Strong institutional support of Archaeology is the cornerstone of this investment. We realised
our REF2014 plans completing our GBP600k investment in a stable isotope sample
preparation lab awarded ahead of this REF cycle. Working through the university’s Research
Equipment Group (REF5a/4.3), we have built on this with coordinated bids with Geography
and Earth Sciences around common priorities and improved access to key equipment by
sharing resources (e.g. stable isotopes-Archaeology; radiogenic isotopes-Earth Sciences). We
identify laboratory and equipment needs on a rolling basis and have secured University
investment of GBP3m since REF2014. Recent major acquisitions include:

1) GBP750k Zeiss - Scanning electron microscope package (with Zeiss Sigma 300 VP with
automated mineralogy platform and Zeiss Evo 10 extended pressure; with Earth Sciences and
Geography, operated by Badreshany) is reshaping our materials research, allowing us to
image and analyse materials physically and chemically on a far greater scale, and in a less
                                                                                                16
destructive manner than previously possible;
2) GBP350k - new stable isotope sample measurement laboratory. The SIBL is equipped with
a ThermoScientific MAT 253 and ThermoScientific Delta V Advantage gas-source mass
spectrometers for the measurement of stable isotope ratios in geological, biological,
archaeological and environmental samples;
3) GBP594k - portable non-destructive XRF and XRD facilities for chemical fingerprinting of
artefacts and sediments (shared with Geography);
4) GBP170k - new single-grain reader for luminescence dating of sediments involving complex
depositional processes (e.g. irrigation features);
5) GBP153k - to complete our new human aDNA laboratory;
6) GBP139k - for CT and digital X-ray imaging systems for the study of objects (for example
from Auckland Castle) and human bone;
7) GBP71k - upgrading IT facilities in our Informatics laboratory (facilitating grant success and
research output in landscape research);
8) GBP37k - equipment for geoarchaeological research in the Environmental Laboratories,
including upgraded microscopy for advanced sedimentological and archaeobotanical analysis.

Our field research is supported by a full array of the latest equipment, with purchases to the
value of GBP764k since REF2014. These include four new vehicles, Bartington MS2 meter,
gradiometers, Leica GPS kits, Sensys cart, drones, and a quadbike with rover GPS. This
equipment supports increased revenue flow from industry through ASDU, while providing all
PDRs and PGRs with cost-free access to, and training on, field equipment. DGPS kit and UAVs
have supported field research by Cat A staff in UK, Central & South Asia, China, Lebanon and
Ukraine, while ASDU staff are themselves embedded as trainers and users in the unit’s
research and impact work e.g. geophysics work for the community training project Belief in the
North (Petts). We also make collaborative use of research infrastructure elsewhere in the UK
and overseas (e.g. Church-Tephrochronology Facility in Edinburgh; Montgomery-British
Geological Survey, Keyworth; Fernández-D-Max Planck, Germany; Lawrence-supercomputer
at Leeds Institute for Climate and Atmospheric Science).

The university library is an invaluable resource (REF5a/4.3). As examples, the Scottish
Soldiers Project (Graves) made use of the Ushaw College, Durham Cathedral archive/rare
book collections and the Special Collections at Palace Green Library; the Auckland Castle
Project (Gerrard/Graves) has used medieval manuscripts, tithe and estate maps from the same
collection as well as the holdings of Castle Museum, part of the Durham WHS. Several
thousand archive maps of the Middle East (mostly pre-1960) from Palace Green were digitized
2015-16, to assist with the interpretation of historic satellite and air-photography and will be
released as part of the EAMENA image archive (Philip/Lawrence). The Oriental Museum
boasts more than 32,000 artworks and archaeological artefacts from Egypt and Asia –
invaluable for our developing research relationship with the Palace Museum (Beijing) through
PDRA Zhang’s work on Chinese ceramics.

Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Durham Archaeology is an outward-facing department that contributes to the research base,
economy and society in the UK, Europe and the world in multiple ways.

1.Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
Our scholarly engagement has significant international visibility, placing us in the global Top 4
(World University Rankings by subject, 2020). During this REF cycle the unit featured 3 Fellows
of the British Academy (Cramp/Roberts,C/Wilkinson). Staff institutional affiliations include
Church (Adjunct Professor-City University New York) and Kennet (Honorary Professor-Palace
Museum, Beijing). Our Category A staff serve on over 40 UK and international advisory boards
e.g. Universities Archaeology UK (chair Gerrard 2019-22); British Academy H7 (Roberts,C
delivering workshops and attending roundtables on the impacts of Covid-19 to inform
SAGE/GO Science); Chair, Awards Committee, American Schools of Oriental Research (PDRF
                                                                                                17
Welton 2019-); NERC Radiocarbon Facility Steering Committee (Scarre 2011-15); Chair,
Antiquity Trust (Coningham 2016-). We sit on international appointing panels, are routinely
consulted about promotions at other institutions (e.g. RobertsCx14; Rowley-Conwy x6) and are
represented on major international funding panels (e.g. Skeates-Co-Chair, European Science
Foundation, Humanities/Social Sciences Panel; Coningham-Expert Evaluator Marie
Skłodowska-Curie Actions Innovative Training Networks).

Our staff have received honorary awards (e.g. Scarre, Docteur Honoris Causa, Université de
Rennes and Distinguished Service Award, Shanghai Archaeology Forum) and we provide
extensive support for Archaeology though journal editorship: EJA (Skeates 2010-19); Levant
(Philip 2008-2020); Medieval Archaeology (Semple 2013-2019); Radiation Measurements
(Bailiff 2009-), and as guest editors (e.g. Pettitt and Semple for World Archaeology). At
Antiquity, Witcher (2018-) has secured 6 years funding for public engagement and outreach
through social media and links with British Archaeology (print run c.12k). Many serve on
editorial boards e.g. Textile History (Brooks), Journal of Islamic Archaeology (Kennet),
Colloquium Anatolicum (Draycott), and we edit monograph series (Gerrard-Society for
Medieval Archaeology monographs). Research quality has been recognised through prizes:
Current Archaeology best book 2018 (White), British Archaeological Award best book 2018
(Graves), PROSE award for best book in Classics 2019 (Hingley). Our Category A staff have
published 650+ outputs in this cycle (46 books/edited volumes, 262 chapters, 343 journal
papers/special issues), with co-authors from 50+ countries. The Scottish Soldiers Project was
shortlisted for the THE best research project of the year 2018 and the Culture Awards 2019,
winning Living North 2019 Performance of the Year (with DU Museums). Foundational works
for the discipline include The Routledge Handbook of Sensory Archaeology (Skeates) and The
Backbone of Europe (Roberts,C).

In the REF period, we have organised major conferences e.g. Theoretical Roman Archaeology
2017 (Hingley/Witcher), Seminar for Arabian Studies 2018 (Kennet), and Society for Medieval
Archaeology annual conferences in 2016 and 2018 (Gerrard/Forlin; Semple/Mees/Orsini),
Bronze Age Forum 2019 (Roberts,B) and the BABAO conference 2014
(Roberts,C/Gowland/Millard/Montgomery) in addition to collaborative conference sessions and
workshops (e.g. Pettitt co-founder Kyoto Workshop on Evolutionary Anthropology 2017-).
Pettitt, Roberts C, Rowley-Conwy and Semple have given 17 keynote addresses between
them. Themed issues and edited collections arising from these co-ordinating roles include the
Proceedings of the Seminar for Arabian Studies (Kennet), Journal of Archaeological Research
(Roberts,B), and World Archaeology (Semple).

Our RIGs act as hubs for international visitors. Since REF2014 we have hosted 3 research
fellows (Crossland (Colombia), Oxenham (ANU), Guichard (Bibracte EPPC), and 7 visiting
researchers, e.g. we co-produce research with visiting academics from Middle East countries
supported by GCRF and the Nahrein network. In addition, our worldwide reputation is
evidenced by Visiting PDRs (e.g. Gonzalez-Spanish mobility grant 2016-18; Golosetti-
Ferdinand Braudel Fellowship 2014) and 42 visiting doctoral research students in this cycle
(increase of 200%+ from REF2014). State-funded with peer-reviewed applications, these
students come from around the world: Australia, Canada, China, Pakistan, Russia, Spain and
Turkey for stays of up to 6 months.

2.Transforming knowledge for research users and other audiences

i. Using research advances to meet new challenges
Recent investment and staffing have melded existing and new research and commercial
operations. ASDU have worked with 500+ commercial partners realising GBP5.7m of
infrastructural development over this REF cycle. They have translated their research and
commercial work into 20 community-driven projects (10 HLF-funded), providing volunteers with
3600 days of training in field and lab-based procedures.

                                                                                              18
New methodological advances have also realised significant impact beyond archaeology, e.g.
working with UK Health Protection Agencies and communities in Belarus on emergency
planning, Bailiff has translated his OSL work on radiation measurement to a programme of
international radiation monitoring. Montgomery/Gowland have co-developed a new technique
that can determine biological sex from peptides (proteins) preserved in human tooth enamel.
This will have major implications for commercial archaeology, forensic science and police work
worldwide.

ii. Informing cultural-heritage management and protection practice and policy

Investment and collaboration, catalysed particularly by our LCS and HP RIGs, has significantly
deepened the influence of our research on heritage management and policy. Our beneficiaries
include UNESCO and ICOMOS in India, Myanmar, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Libya and Tunisia (ICS-
Leone-Training in Action: North Africa; ICS-Coningham-Accessible, Resilient Heritage S Asia),
as well as Interpol and the EURPOL Counter Terrorism unit (ICS-Leone-HeDAP collections
system). Our research is enabling the recording and protection of heritage by state agencies in
Kuwait, Oman and Ras al-Khaimah (Kennet) and through the creation of digital Historic
Environment Records for the national agencies in Lebanon and Iraq (Philip/Lawrence). We are
using our research to effect ethical and responsible management and ownership of natural and
human-altered landscapes, sites and collections (e.g. changing land-owner practices in Britain
and Europe-Moore,T for REFIT).

We create and contribute to site management plans (e.g. Durham WHS-Millard NC), regional
research frameworks (e.g. North East England-Petts NC), national research frameworks (e.g.
Historic Environment Scotland-Milek/Church NC) and policies for specific heritage assets (e.g.
Historic England and Natural England policies towards Palaeolithic resources of the Trent and
Thames-White PW). We also work with partners such as the National Trust where Skeates’
work has led to new guidance on the presentation of archaeology (WOW Project). Gerrard, as
Chair of UAUK, gathers data on national research infrastructures then represents and
coordinates university responses and lobbying e.g. advisory panel for Historic England’s 21st-
century Challenges for Archaeology, including the synthesis of findings of planning-led
investigations to create new understandings.

iii. Global capacity building in terms of knowledge and skills
Our research on human identity and identification, via international partnerships and online
training, is now influencing the work of crime and body recovery agencies in 80+ countries
(ICS-Gowland-Bodies of Evidence-ICRC MOOC). Our international research networks,
combined with growing investment in landscape archaeology, geoinformatics and remote
sensing, have also enabled us to build capacity in terms of skills and knowledge for heritage
protection worldwide (Figure 5). In 2020, this realised a new Durham Centre for Cultural
Heritage Protection (DCCHP) that capitalises on multiple grants and projects across three
continents, providing a platform for sharing data, archives, techniques and expertise with more
than 20 partners in 13 countries, now enhanced by Gomes-C’s work with descendent
communities on recording heritage related to slavery in Brazil and West Africa. Working with
partners, we have developed extensive programmes of training with beneficiary communities
and agencies to upskill heritage professionals, embed skills in communities and develop the
economic benefit of heritage in under-developed or conflict/disaster impacted regions of the
world (ICSs-Coningham/Leone, Philip).




                                                                                                 19
Figure 5: Heritage professionals engaged in training with Durham EAMENA team, Lebanon

In Jordan, a programme of knowledge exchange in collaboration with the Department of
Antiquities and Yarmouk U is enhancing local capacity in isotopic research methods, facilitating
the creation of the first biosphere map for a MENA country (Philip/Montgomery), while
collaboration with Jordan Archaeological Museum is guiding local staff in heritage presentation
and education skills (Skeates/PDR Badran). Our developing relationship with the Palace
Museum in Beijing, China, is opening up new opportunities for sharing expertise in curatorial
and heritage practices (Kennet/PDR Zhang/Brooks/Skeates).

We also use these skills to enhance the reach and significance of our expansive portfolio of co-
production with community groups in the UK (Accessing Aidan-HLF-funded project, Roberts,C),
and regional/national agencies (Northumberland National Park, Petts/ Gefrin Trust,
Gerrard/Petts/Semple). We have established platforms for community training (NE-
Archaeology Partnerships) and our HLF grant Belief in the North is enabling a co-produced
programme for community training in archaeology of 600+ participants across northern
England (Petts).

iv. Changing public engagement with the past
We write major popular books on archaeology and textbooks with a fundamental influence on
the discipline, e.g. Human Past (Scarre-2018, 4th edn), Archaeology: an introduction
(Moore,T’s updated 2014, 5th edn). In this cycle, we have collaborated with media outlets and
platforms to reach new audiences internationally. With DU Marketing and Communications, we
create strategic narratives around our major research themes and achievements for TV and
film companies (e.g. Digging for Britain (Pettsx2), Digging for Britain’s Past (Gerrard/Graves),
Who Do You Think You Are? (Gerrard; reaching 1m+ US households), material for permanent
exhibitions (e.g. Roberts,C-film on leprosy at the new Wellcome Galleries for the Science
Museum 2019), and podcasts (e.g.Montgomery What’sHerName Women’s History). We have
delivered over 700 public lectures/seminars and workshops at heritage venues and locations
worldwide, while Gerrard’s research back-dating by several centuries the first evidence for
Chinese porcelain in Europe, featured in the 2019 ‘Gaokao’, China’s college entrance exam,
sat by around 10 million students annually.

                                                                                               20
Our staff advise and collaborate with museums nationally and internationally to inform their
displays and educational materials. We have a major commitment to training staff at Beijing
Palace museum (Kennet/Skeates), Moore,T acted as consultant and contributor to the
GBP1.5m redevelopment of the Prehistory Gallery, Corinium Museum, Coningham (ICS)
developed a major exhibition on Buddhist archaeology in Taiwan and Brooks took the curatorial
lead on the exhibition of the world-renowned Feller Collection of embroideries at the
Ashmolean (Brooks-Eye of the Needle 2014 MV); subsequently the owners donated a
collection of 61 items to the nation (value GBP500k). Our Scottish Soldiers exhibition with DU
Palace Green (2018) engaged with 30,237 visitors from 30 countries, with 80,000 downloads of
Dan Snow’s History Hit podcast (with Gerrard) and 2612 attending 49 related talks and events
including music, a living history weekend attended by 1898 visitors, self-guided history walks
and web app. Our approach to commemoration was commended by Scottish Parliament
(Motion S5M-11779) and we developed touring exhibitions for the UK and US National Parks
Service (Gerrard/Millard/Roberts,C). The story was also developed into a co-produced theatre
production with Cap-A-Pie (Newcastle), playing to 11 venues across Scotland and NE England,
a MOOC, and a co-produced community arts project (with The Word Garden) with workshops
with local schools and history groups which inspired creative writing, drama, a short film and
visual arts (ASDU Annis/Graves).

3. PGR and PDR training beyond Durham
We have served as external examiners for 164 PhD students, including 62 overseas in 20
countries. In addition, we contribute:
1) by initiating collaborative PhD Studentships e.g. x2 sponsored by Public Health England in
radiation dosimetry (Bailiff); IAPETUS CASE studentships in collaboration with the University of
Stirling, University of Aberdeen and Historic Environment Scotland (Milek);
2) through co-tutelles with international partners, e.g. Rennes (Pioffet), Caen (Rego), and
Luxembourg (Streb), including exchange workshops with Caen;
3) by opening Durham’s laboratories to students from other institutions, e.g. Montgomery-
isotopes lab for Leiden students; Badreshany-materials analysis facilities for PhD students from
other institutions funded by Northern Bridge Doctoral Training Partnership.
4) by leading international ECR workshops e.g. Milek (22 trainees on Arctic and Sub-Arctic
Coastal Regions; British Council).




                                                                                              21
