Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution:
University of Essex
Unit of Assessment:
30 - Philosophy
1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Philosophy at Essex is distinguished by the vitality and collaborative ethos of its governing
approach: to draw widely across philosophical traditions to address real-world social and existential
issues. We pride ourselves on our tight-knit but outward-looking environment in which members of
our growing research community can each find their voice (we are currently 13 FTE, up 1.5 since
REF2014). We are committed to supporting Early Career Researchers [ECRs] and research
students, not least by involving them in substantial research projects that lead to publications,
knowledge exchange, impact and consequent promotions. We are a world-leading centre for the
study of modern European thought, encompassing both theoretical and practical philosophy (and
their intersections). Our researchers collaborate in distinct but interrelated clusters:

      Classical German Philosophy (Freyenhagen, Han-Pile, Hughes, Jütten, Martin, Schaub,
       Watts). We have a longstanding reputation for world-leading work on the roots of modern
       European philosophy. Many staff are experts on Kant and the post-Kantian tradition,
       centrally including Schelling, Fichte and Hegel, as well as later nineteenth century German
       philosophers, such as Marx, Nietzsche and Schopenhauer. Staff meet to discuss and
       present research-in-progress, for example in our German Idealism reading group. Members
       of this cluster have published a variety of outputs including on Kant and Transcendental
       Idealism, on Hegel and the relationship between aesthetics and politics and on
       Kierkegaard’s critique of Hegel.
      Phenomenology and Existentialism (Burch, Gormley, Han-Pile, Hughes, Martin,
       McMullin, Watts). We are renowned for ground-breaking work on the figures of the tradition
       of Classical Phenomenology: centrally Husserl, Heidegger, and Merleau-Ponty. A
       distinguishing mark of our approach is the way we seek to bring these figures into dialogue
       with ongoing debates, for example in the philosophy of mind and moral philosophy. The
       cluster is further enriched by our expertise on figures who predate Husserl but whose work
       anticipates a distinctively phenomenological approach (Nietzsche, Kierkegaard) and also
       on more recent figures who stand in proximity to Classical Phenomenology (Derrida,
       Foucault, Levinas, Løgstrup). Academic staff and graduate students in this cluster regularly
       meet in our ‘Phenomenology Werkstatt’, a research group in which work in progress is
       discussed and developed.
      Medical Humanities (Burch, Guillot, Freyenhagen, Han-Pile, Martin, McMullin, Watts). This
       cluster continues to shape interdisciplinary research in this area, both locally and
       internationally. Our contributions include high-impact interventions on debates around
       autonomy, disability and mental health; insight, objectivity and the management of risk; and
       experiences of powerlessness in contexts of chronic illness, end-of-life care, addiction and
       moral distress. Our researchers have been leading the way in philosophical contributions to
       pressing moral issues around COVID-19, human rights, scarcity and moral distress. This
       cluster draws especially on our expertise in first- and second-person phenomenology, in
       moral and political philosophy and the philosophy of law and human rights. Through this
       cluster, we have forged multiple partnerships: across disciplines, including Law, Sociology,
       and Health and Social Care; and with non-academic stakeholders, from local hospices to
       the UK Ministry of Justice and Department of Health and Social Care (see section 4 for
       details).
      Critical Theory (Freyenhagen, Finlayson, Gormley, Jütten, Khurana, Schaub). This cluster
       advances innovative approaches to issues of pressing public concern. These include the
       morality of markets, transitional justice, deliberative democracy, social pathology and the
       aesthetic dimensions of political life. In pursuing these issues, the cluster draws on our
       expertise on diverse schools of Critical Theory, including figures such as Adorno,
       Habermas, Honneth and Rancièr and in dialogue with contemporary critical theorists such
       as Allen and Geuss. Through regular forums such as the Critical Theory Colloquium, this
       group provides a further focal point for interdisciplinary collaboration within the University

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       (especially with Law, Government, Sociology and the Human Rights Centre) and for
       networks with external partners, academic and non-academic (the cluster has established
       networks in Brazil as well as in Europe and the US). Members of this cluster are founding
       co-editors of the book series, Essex Studies in Contemporary Critical Theory.

These four research clusters are well-established. In addition, two recently emerging research
groupings reflect new staff and new developments within the field:

      Self-Consciousness and Self-Knowledge (Guillot, Han-Pile, Martin, Wasmuth, Watts).
       This group (informally known as ‘Omphalos’, after the stone at the Delphic Oracle) seeks
       new directions in the ontology, epistemology and aesthetics of self-awareness and self-
       representation. A key vehicle for this emerging collaboration is the Omphalos Reading
       Group which meets regularly to discuss seminal readings on this topic, drawing on ancient
       philosophy, German idealism, phenomenology, analytic philosophy, cognitive science, and
       Art History.
      The Race and Gender Group (Burch, Finlayson, Freyenhagen, Guillot, Hughes, Jütten,
       McMullin, Wasmuth). Through regular forums such as the Race and Gender Colloquium,
       this group explores fast-moving and often highly contentious debates around race and
       gender as social categories and their political consequences. The Group also serves as a
       vanguard for our ongoing mission to improve the inclusivity and diversity of our research
       environment (see below).

The development and vitality of our research clusters in this period reflects our success in meeting
our objective stated in REF2014: namely, to maintain and develop ‘a distinctive, cross-fertilised
form of modern European thought, moral and political philosophy and medical humanities’. Under
the direction of the Head of School [HoS], Director of Research [DoR], Impact Director [ID], and
Director of Graduate Studies (DGS), we have delivered this strategy through judicious
appointments, support for staff and research students, and major grant capture. The following
points highlight the overall success of this strategy (for further detail see sections 2-4):

      We have in this period made five new appointments to full ASER (Research and
       Teaching) posts (Burch, Finlayson, Guillot, Khurana, Wasmuth). These appointments
       consolidate our core strengths in modern European thought and moral and political
       philosophy. They also add new dimensions to our overall research profile, as reflected by
       the emergence in this period of the ‘Omphalos’ and Race and Gender groups. With three of
       the five incoming staff being female, these appointments also significantly improve our
       gender balance. As suggested by the rapid advancement of our recent appointments, we
       have a comprehensive set of mechanisms in place to support the career development of
       ECRs, who will remain at the core of our staffing strategy (see section 2).

      Our research projects have in this period again attracted £1M+ in funding from external
       sources (counting only the Essex portion of cross-institutional grants). These include new
       initiatives of the award-winning Essex Autonomy Project [EAP] (Martin, Freyenhagen,
       Burch, Jütten); a major further AHRC-funded project, ‘The Ethics of Powerlessness: The
       Theological Virtues Today’ [EoP] (Han-Pile, Watts); and most recently, the ‘Competition
       and Competitiveness Project’ [CCP] (Jütten), funded by the Leverhulme Trust. In
       conjunction with other grants, these projects have built international and interdisciplinary
       networks of academics and practitioners and have provided opportunities for staff
       development and student research internships.

      Externally funded projects have enhanced the reach and significance of our
       dissemination and impact, for example through the provision of CPD training to judges
       and hospice staff. They have also enriched our calendar of research events, hosting regular
       series of Medical Humanities Workshops and conferences.

      Through formal and informal research events, together with widening participation in
       externally funded research projects, we have fostered collaboration and

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       interdisciplinarity. For example, during this period philosophy at Essex hosted the joint
       annual conference of The Society for European Philosophy and Forum for European
       Philosophy [SEP-FEP], the largest annual conference in Europe that aims to bring together
       researchers, teachers, and students interested in all areas of European philosophy.
       Interdisciplinarity is now deeply embedded in the very structure of Essex Philosophy, which
       belongs to the School of Philosophy and Art History [SPAH], home to the Interdisciplinary
       Studies Centre. As a result of this structure, our staff members come into regular contact
       with the ideas and approaches of others disciplines: for instance, through our School’s
       weekly lecture series, which alternates between philosophy and art history talks; and
       through more informal reading and working groups that explore overlapping areas of
       interest.

      We continue to attract high-quality PhD students and post-doctoral fellows, winning a
       significant proportion of PhD scholarships within the AHRC CHASE consortium (11
       successful full CHASE scholarships for research students since 2014) and placing our
       completed PhD students in prestigious posts (details below).

Building on these successes, our strategy for the next REF period is fourfold:

a) To sustain our track-record of grant capture — both of smaller individual awards and of major
   collaborative grants — and further to widen participation in the leadership of big grants. This
   strategy is already being implemented and the following funding applications are in preparation
   or under review: ‘Beyond Bullshit’ (Guillot); will and contract (Martin); risk and flourishing
   (McMullin, Burch); moral distress (Han-Pile, Watts); legal and ethical implications of human
   enhancement technologies (Schaub). We shall support these funding applications, and grow
   further such initiatives, in three main ways: through judicious use of teaching buy-out or
   assignment marking relief from our Research Development Fund, over and above regular
   study leave, to support grant-writing in the most promising cases of major projects; through on-
   going peer-review including mentorship of ECRs; and through regular forums for discussing
   research plans and building collaborations, such as annual Personal Development Reviews
   and Research Away Days. With the help of the Research and Enterprise Officer (REO),
   including the Research Impact Officer, a key priority in this connection is to help colleagues
   where appropriate to build pathways to impact into the design of their research projects from
   the outset. Above all, we take pride in, and will continue to embed, our collectivist ethos where
   less experienced colleagues are mentored by experienced grant-holders and where, however
   many colleagues are eventually written into them, grant applications take shape as a collective
   endeavour.
b) To further grow our research community while maintaining our distinctively collaborative and
   egalitarian culture. Our staffing strategy prioritises the appointment of ECRs on full ASER
   contracts. As our research community grows, it is of the first importance to us to preserve our
   collegiate ethos within our collective aim to keep philosophy in touch with real-world issues and
   to cut across traditional academic boundaries to find new ways to address them. Further
   priorities in this area include growing our numbers of research students and continuing the
   momentum established in the current cycle (see section 2.iii) to improve inclusion, equality and
   diversity: both locally, including Athena SWAN accreditation, and more broadly to support
   discipline-wide endeavours such as The UK Society for Women in Philosophy.
c) To develop our research clusters. Under the direction of the DoR and ID, we shall further
   consolidate the four more established groupings: Classical German Philosophy;
   Phenomenology and Existentialism; Medical Humanities and Critical Theory. In addition, we
   shall foster the other two emerging clusters: ‘Omphalos’ and the Race and Gender Group. It
   will be a priority for us in the next cycle to maximise the potential of all our clusters in attracting
   funding and research students. A further priority is to build on the unique opportunities for
   collaboration with art historians afforded by our School of Philosophy and Art History (SPAH).
   Such collaborations are to some extent already underway (involving Hughes, Khurana, Martin
   and Schaub), where emerging themes include the phenomenology of aesthetic experience, the
   relationship between politics and aesthetics, and the epistemology and aesthetics of self-
   representation.

                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
d) To consolidate and extend external partnerships and collaborations, national and international,
   disciplinary and interdisciplinary, academic and non-academic. Recent examples include Han-
   Pile’s collaboration with the large interdisciplinary project on Resilience (headed by Professor
   Richter at Bonn); Freyenhagen’s collaboration with Stuckler (social science, Bocconi) toward a
   project on powerlessness and health outcomes; and Martin’s collaboration with the National
   Mental Capacity Forum, the Social Care Institute of Excellence, and a variety of Local
   Authorities in training frontline professionals with responsibilities for ensuring respect for human
   rights in care homes. There are many exciting opportunities going forward to further extend and
   deploy the already established and extensive networks of non-academic partnerships, not least
   those built up through EAP and EoP (for further details see section 4).

2. People

(i) Staffing strategy and staff development

We have made significant advances in this REF period, both in numbers of staff on research
contracts and in staff development. Essex now employs thirteen philosophers on ASER contracts:
Burch, Finlayson, Freyenhagen, Gormley, Guillot, Han-Pile, Fiona Hughes, Jütten, Martin,
McMullin, Schaub, Wasmuth, Watts. This includes five professors (Freyenhagen, McMullin and
Jütten, who were promoted in this period, joining Han-Pile and Martin). In addition, Professor Dews
is an Emeritus Professor. Jütten, Schaub and Watts have in this period achieved promotions to
Senior Lecturer. Burch, Finlayson, Gormley, Guillot, Jütten, and Schaub all achieved permanency.

Our strategy in this period has been to appoint junior staff with a view to mentoring and integrating
new staff within the distinctive ethos of Essex philosophy. Our mentoring system focuses on
developing ambitious research agendas and also on implementing our research funding strategy.
Each new member of staff has a designated mentor among the senior staff and meets personally
with the Research Development Manager for the Faculty of Humanities from the REO. As mentors,
senior staff members provide feedback on grant applications and draft publications, as well as
advice on how to navigate several University milestones in the Pathway to Permanency and
promotion. These milestones include a) the CADENZA training programme, which occurs midway
through the 3-year probation period and results in an application for HEA [Higher Education
Academy] fellowship; b) the application process for permanency, which requires candidates to
demonstrate excellence in research and other areas (e.g., education and leadership); and c) an
annual research plan, which is required of all research-active staff. To ensure mentors have the
necessary time to support ECRs, we include mentoring as an activity in our School’s Work
Allocation Model and as a criterion for promotion and salary increase applications.

In addition to the support provided through our mentoring programme, ECRs meet with the
Humanities lead from the University’s REO to learn the University procedures and resources to
support grant writing. Through our Work Allocation Model, we also operate a School-level policy
that protects the research time of junior staff by reducing their administrative load during the three-
year probationary period. We further provide a framework of essential training courses that enable
them to cultivate the skills need for supervising research students and for conducting research in a
safe and ethical manner.

Thanks to our strategy of appointing ECRs, and fostering their development, a number of
colleagues (Finlayson, Guillot, Gormley, Schaub, Wasmuth) are currently becoming leading voices
in their fields. This puts us now in a strong position going forward as we strengthen our staff base
on which to build more research funding application and impact work. We expect the number of
colleagues who contribute to these vital aspects of School life thereby to increase, both absolutely
and proportionately.

Besides the support mechanisms specifically designed for ECRs, we have a range of mechanisms
in place to help all research-active staff. For example, the University research leave policy allows
one term of leave for every six served and colleagues in philosophy have enjoyed 30 terms of
leave in this cycle. To complement University-wide provisions, our c. £10,000 annual School-level

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
budget allows us to defray costs for the development of research proposals. This fund, to which
staff have access by making formal requests to the Research Committee, is in addition to the
annual £600 per FTE that colleagues typically use to defray costs of research and conference
travel. We also operate an updated work-life policy that, among other benefits, allows colleagues to
take a career break after two or more years of service (e.g., to accommodate caring
responsibilities); and a recently introduced School-level procedure in which each staff member
designates a ‘protected’ research day per week, which is used by the administrative team to
schedule deadlines and to minimise email interruptions.

The five new appointments in this period, three of whom are female, reflect our on-going priority
significantly to improve the gender balance in our department. They also reflect our on-going aim
to appoint ASER staff whenever possible in order to maintain and strengthen our research base.
Moreover, when we do on occasion appoint fixed-term ASE staff, we view these colleagues as
fellow researchers, seeking to ensure they have time and resources for their personal development
as researchers, including manageable teaching loads and research funds on a par with permanent
staff. Accordingly, our research culture has in this period been enriched through the participation of
staff on fixed-term contracts: through Dr Falomi’s research on Cavell, for example, and Dr Batho’s
work on Heidegger and hallucination, Dr Reichl’s work on Heidegger and Kant and Dr Worsdale’s
research on feminism.

Our research culture is further enriched by various postdoctoral and visiting fellows. Some of these
are attached to specific research projects (such as Drs Gurbai and Curk for EAP). Others are
hosted by individual research (examples include Barbieri, an Erasmus+ PhD student from the
University of Pavia hosted by Guillot; Dr. Loeschenkohl, a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowship,
incoming from the University of Chicago, hosted by Khurana; Dr Clavero, a post-doctoral student
working on recognition theory hosted by Schaub; Koppert, a PGR student from Regina, hosted by
Watts; Dr Fossen (Leiden) hosted by Martin).Through YERUN (Young European Research
Universities Network), we have hosted a doctoral student from the Universidad Carlos III de
Madrid. We have had a number of Chinese scholars visiting for an academic year, including
Professor Lei Mo (Nankai University) and Professors Yan Yan and Wang Qin (both Zhongnan
University of Economics and Law). Other visiting fellows include Dr Holley (European University
Institute); Dr Fascioli (Montevideo, Uruguay) and Dr Luthra, with whom Burch and McMullin have
been collaborating. We also hosted Drs Caycho and Lazarte, two researchers from Peru under the
‘Global Challenges’ research fund.

(ii) PGR Students

We continue to attract high-quality research students (in any one year, there are on average 25.32
research students in SPAH) and have in this period maintained our outstanding record for securing
UKRI funding for our PGR students within the CHASE Consortium (as detailed above). Our
consistent track-record in this connection reflects the commitment of staff to work closely with
promising applicants from an early stage to develop PhD proposals. Aside from advancing funding
applications, this effort pays off by helping students to hit the ground running when they begin the
PhD and with their early integration into the research culture of the department. We have also
secured funding for research students through internal institution-level fellowships (including 8
Essex Silberrad scholars) and various external bodies (for example, the Consejo Nacional De
Ciencia Y Tecnologia in Mexico and the Ministry of Education Taiwan.)

Student integration

Our research students are embedded into the distinctive research culture of philosophy at Essex
both through dedicated PGR events and through wider departmental research forums. These
include the Doctoral Research Seminar, convened by the Director of Graduate Studies, which
offers an introduction to research and research-related skills; the Graduate Research Colloquium
which meets three times a year and is attended by both staff and PG students, aiming to develop
research students’ research and oral skills; the School Research Seminar which meets weekly in
term time and includes philosophy research presentations at least-bi-weekly, bringing in leading

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
researchers from across the globe; the student-led Graduate Conference (inaugurated in 1995,
one of the first such meetings in the UK) at which many of our own PGRs present; the Women in
Philosophy Group, our support network targeted mainly at PG students that meets several times
a year for social events but also to discuss initiatives that might help young women in academic
philosophy (e.g. we now have a women's officer in the department); the Black Philosophy
Collective, also inaugurated in this period, which has attracted a large and active following of
students from many different disciplines, and meets several times a year to discuss race theory
and generally supplement the white-dominant philosophy curriculum with approaches by
Philosophers of Colour.

Many of our research students also get involved with externally funded research projects (such as
EAP and EoP — see below). These projects host regular Medical Humanities Workshops and
other research events in which PGR students participate (such as recent workshops on end-of-life
care, addiction and moral distress and conferences on powerlessness and the theological virtues).
Major projects also provide opportunities for research internships (for example to undertake
research on moral distress). In addition, PGR students participate in, and often help to run, an
array of reading groups and workshops associated with our research clusters. These include the
on-going Critical Theory Colloquium, Phenomenology Werkstatt, Race and Gender Group
and ‘Omphalos’ meetings, as well as various other reading groups, workshops, conferences and
‘crash courses’ (such the Aristotle Reading Group, crash courses on phenomenology and
Kierkegaard, mini-conferences on Adorno, internal critique and moralism; the large recent SEP-
FEP Conference hosted at Essex and including a retrospective on Dews’ research). Our flagship
SPAH Minicourse, typically convened over three days two times a year, brings in high-profile
speakers (including in this period Professors Allen, Crowley, Geuss, Haslanger, Jaeggi,
Neuhouser, and Stern) but also opportunities for sustained exposure to the latest research of
Essex philosophers (recent iterations showcased McMullin’s work on existential flourishing,
Martin’s work on the alternative history of self-consciousness and Dews’ work on Schelling and the
end of German Idealism.)

Skills and training

Our in-house measures are designed to complement our strong institution-level procedures for
supporting research students through their degrees. For example, to help improve students’
presentational skills and prepare for the viva, we introduced in this period oral presentations as
part of third-year Supervisory panels Panels. Our bespoke training for philosophy research
students builds on opportunities for generic skills training: language learning modules, ethics
approval training, courses administered by the University’s Proficio team on career development,
public engagement, specific IT skills etc. Our students can further benefit from the discipline-
specific training: our in-house Publication Workshop was inaugurated in this period, for example,
in order better to equip research students to navigate the world of academic publication; our
Placement Group likewise offers in-house support around academic job applications, including
CV and cover-letter writing and mock interviews. Further opportunities for research students
include Graduate Teaching Assistantships for which students who have reached the second
year of their PhD may apply; conferences and training events organised by the CHASE
consortium; financial support for participation in conferences (where each student has an
allowance of £200 for this purpose, which may be supplemented with funds from the School
Research Development fund); Open Forum meetings for research students to share ideas and
feedback; invitations to attend and provide feedback on research presentations which form part of
interviews for academic posts; mock vivas with staff and postdoctoral fellows; and annual in-
house philosophical German / French language courses (taught by Nick Walker, leading
translator of philosophical texts into English). As a matter of course, each Supervisory Panel for
PhD students includes a training needs analysis.

Major philosophy research projects have also offered invaluable work experience for our PGRS.
For example, the role of EAP Project Administrator has been successfully filled by Essex
philosophy graduates, where this role extends from budgeting to grant applications and the
administration of extra-mural CPD training.

                                                                                           Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

The quality of our environment for research students, and the value our Placement Group, is
attested by the prestigious research posts secured by our PhD graduates in this REF period.
These include posts at Oxford, Cambridge, Bristol, LSE, Kings, the Australian Catholic University,
and the University of California.

While supporting many to secure such academic placements, we also recognise that an academic
career may not be for all our PGR students. We currently have one student (Shipsides) about to
start on a funded placement in the Cabinet Office, for example; and we are supporting another
(Kuylen) in the Fast Track Civil Service project in Health Policy. Supporting PGR students who
wish to explore such careers in public service and public policy, for example, has been part of an
initiative over the course of the review period which we have called ‘Not Plan B’, in which PGR
training in philosophy can form part of training for careers outside of the academy.

(iii) Equality and Diversity

We have in this period introduced a formal internal School policy on equality (alongside our
institution-level policy). This policy acknowledges that historically women and minorities have been
disadvantaged in many aspects of university and academic life, through both conscious and
unconscious assumptions, biases, and prejudices, and through unfavourable practical
arrangements. The policy also commits us to changing this situation. We believe that the School in
general will benefit academically, intellectually, and socially from an energetic commitment to
promoting equality.

Within the School our commitment to equality involves consideration of the following (non-
exhaustive) list of issues: (a) ensuring a female presence on committees and decision-making
bodies within the School; (b) ensuring female participation in selection processes (e.g. regarding
applications for PGT and PGT studentships, regarding posts – academic and administrative –
within the School); (c) include wherever possible the representation of female and minority
thinkers, writers, and artists on the syllabi for modules within the School; (d) taking measures to
allow female and underrepresented voices to be adequately heard during seminars, discussions,
question and answer sessions, etc. In terms of broader professional activities, our commitment to
equality involves consideration of the following (non-exhaustive) list of issues: (a) invitation of
female and minority speakers when setting up conferences; (b) inclusion of female and minority
authors when editing collections of articles; (c) inclusion of female and minority representation on
editorial/advisory boards; (d) awareness of possible implicit bias when refereeing/assessing non-
anonymised work (our policy also includes an outline explanation of implicit bias).

Aside from the significant improvement in gender-balance through recent appointments, we have
in this period introduced a number of initiatives for the purpose of improving equality and diversity
in practice. These include our Society for Women in Philosophy (SWIP), Race and Gender and
Black Collective initiatives. On the initiative of SWIP, we, for example, now have a Women’s Officer
within the School. Our introduction (in 2016) of the policy to have multiple genders represented on
any hiring committee complements our longer-standing commitment to disability inclusion through
the use of the Disability Confident (formerly ‘Two Ticks’) Employer logo when hiring. We updated
our website (in 2019) to make it easier for students and staff to navigate the system for reporting
harassment, discrimination and assault: https://www.essex.ac.uk/departments/philosophy-and-art-
history/equality-and-inclusion/counteracting-harassment-and-implicit-bias.We have a separate
page on equality and inclusion in the school: https://www.essex.ac.uk/departments/philosophy-
and-art-history/equality-and-inclusion We adopted the British Philosophical Association (BPA) and
Society for Women in Philosophy (SWIP) Good Practice Scheme. This included the small but
significant change of bringing forward the timing of our weekly SPAH Research Seminar (from 5-
7pm first to 4-6pm and then to 3-5pm) to make it easier to attend for those with childcare or other
care responsibilities.

We are this year excited to introduce a Women in Philosophy speaker series this year. Two
speakers have presented this autumn term (2020): Professor MM McCabe on Plato's Philosopher

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Queens and Professor Patrice Haynes on methodological issues regarding decolonising
philosophy of religion, particularly with reference to African thought. These talks are particularly
tailored for undergraduate students, since one of the main cut-off points for female students is the
transition between undergraduate and postgraduate studies.

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

(i) Income

Our strong track-record for external grant capture has continued in this period, including smaller
individual grants, portions of large interdisciplinary grants, and full economic costing for large
projects hosted by Philosophy at Essex. We believe this reflects our collaborative approach to
grant-writing, not least through brainstorming sessions in Research Away Days and rigorous
processes of internal review. We encourage colleagues to apply for smaller ‘seed-corn’ grants for
preliminary research preparatory to larger bids and devote time in our research support workshops
to sessions on how to write competitive grant applications. The DoR and at least one other
colleague (typically more) review and offer feedback on all grant applications, including those from
early career scholars. We also draw on the expertise of our designated Research Development
Manager and Research Impact Officer in the University’s REO to identify research and impact
funding opportunities. Our agility in response to changing funding landscapes is seen in the fact
that three colleagues (Martin, Han-Pile, Watts) were involved in two bids in summer 2020 for UKRI
COVID-19-related projects (successfully in the case of Martin: details below).

This strategy has continued to reap rewards for us. Staff have in this period secured 7 grants over
£10,000 (Essex portion) as follows:

      Han-Pile (PI) and Watts (Co-I), ‘The Ethics of Powerlessness: The Theological Virtues
       Today’. AHRC Standard Research Grant. Total amount awarded = £529,615 (80% of
       £662,019).
      Jütten, ‘Competition and Competitiveness’, Leverhulme Trust. £822,438
      Jütten et al, ‘Human Rights & Info Technology in the Era of Big Data’. ESRC. Overall
       lead: Maurice Sunkin. Total amount awarded = £4,743,734 (80% of £5,788,894). Essex
       Philosophy portion = £26, 612
      Martin et al, ‘Mental Health and Justice’. Wellcome Trust – Collaborative Award (Overall
       lead: Gareth Owen, KCL). Total amount awarded = ca. £2.5M. SPAH portion (leading
       ‘Insight Workstream’) = £380,475.
      Martin (Consultancy), ‘Fitness to Plead’. Wellcome Trust (PI: Penny Brown, KCL). Essex
       portion = ca. £18, 640
      Martin (Consultancy), ‘Time and Decision-Making’ Total amount awarded = £709,163.
       Essex portion = £28,649
      Martin (PI) and Michalowski (Co-I), ‘Ensuring Respect for Human Rights in Locked-
       Down Care Homes’. Total amount awarded = £172,016 (80% of £215,020.74)

We recognise that not all projects are suited to major funding schemes and encourage individual
staff to apply for smaller grants and exploratory funds. Colleagues have in this period successfully
leveraged further external and internal funding streams. These include grants from the British
Academy (Burch) the European Commission – Marie Skłodowska-Curie Action (Loeschenkohl /
Khurana) the Humboldt-Foundation & Yale's Kempf memorial fund & American Friends of the
Humboldt Foundation (Khurana); internal seedcorn funding (Martin, Schaub) and our Essex Global
Challenges Research Fund (Freyenhagen & Jütten, Martin, Jütten & Freyenhagen). In total,
colleagues have attracted in excess £230K of internal funding for research and impact support.
Overall, two-thirds of colleagues secured funding during this cycle while nearly all colleagues made
one or more grant applications.

(ii) Operational infrastructure and facilities

Library Services provides high quality facilities and services across the University’s three

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
campuses, with the largest library, the Albert Sloman Library, holding a collection of over 1 million
books and pamphlets. The total Philosophy holdings are 20,767 books and printed items The
Library’s special collections of over 34,000 printed works include the Michel Haar Archive, the
Arnold Miller Collection and the Harsnett Collection. Library Services also provides over 48,000 e-
books and 40,840 journals and databases, including Philosopher’s Index and JSTOR, and through
the inter library loans service and reciprocal SCONUL library access scheme, facilitates access to
a wide range of external research resources. Additionally, Library Services provides access to a
number of primary text collections, including Historical Texts and InteLex Past Masters. In 2019-20
spend on information resources (including books, journals and databases) totalled £2,608,720.

The Library’s Academic and Research Services team provides advice and support for literature
searching, copyright, publishing (including open access publishing) and citations.

All research staff have their own office spaces, are equipped with regularly updated University
desktop/laptops and have access to scanning, printing, and photocopying facilities. Philosophy
journals are available in our newly refurbished School common room. Staff and research students
working at the intersections of philosophy and Art History, have access to the Essex Collection of
Art from Latin America [ESCALA] gallery (ESCALA is an accredited museum with one of the
largest collections of Latin American art in Europe, curated by colleagues in SPAH). Research
students have their own computer room, a study room with meeting and seminar facilities and a
library, a research room and the use of the School common room. EAP, EoP and CCP have had
dedicated office/meeting spaces.

(iii) Organisational infrastructure

A vital feature of our research infrastructure is our Away Days in which we devote half of the day to
a semi-structured forum in which colleagues share research plans, collaborate on future grant
applications and learn from the experience of seasoned grant-holders. Another vital feature is our
strong culture of peer-review of output and grant application drafts.

The HoS supports research through use of the School budget and annual Personal Development
Reviews. The DoR oversees an annual review of research plans and supports colleagues
throughout the year with their research plans. The DoR chairs the School Research Committee
which considers applications for study leave and seed-corn funding from our Research
Development Fund. The DoR also sits on the Faculty Research Committee and on one of the three
Ethics Sub-Committees of the University Ethics Committee, assessing applications for ethical
approval. Supported by the Graduate Administrator, the DGS convenes Supervisory Boards, the
Doctoral Research Seminar, the Open Forum for research students and Placement and Publishing
groups. Our Study Abroad Officer also helps to coordinate international collaborations and
exchanges.

Other dimensions of our research structure are supported by particular projects and initiatives. For
example, the Essex Autonomy Project organises an annual three-day summer school, open to
everyone interested in understanding, promoting and protecting autonomy – particularly in the
context of care relationships.

Essex Philosophy maintains strong ties with other departments and centres within the University,
including: the Essex Human Rights Centre; the Interdisciplinary Studies Centre; the Essex School
of Law; Literature, Film, and Theatre Studies; Health and Social Care; and Psychosocial and
Psychoanalytic Studies.

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Contributions to the research base

Our reputation as a centre for European thought, as reflected in our Classical German and
Phenomenology and Existentialism clusters, has enabled us to act as an international hub for

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research in these areas. Gormley sits on the Executive committee of SEP-FEP, following in the
footsteps of McNeill (who left Essex during this REF period). Under Gormley’s organisational
direction, 114 researches from across the world delivered papers at Essex over three days, with an
international list of plenary speakers including Cook (Dublin), Davies (Sussex), Hammer (Temple),
Honig (Brown) and Menke (Frankfurt). Essex philosophers Burch, Dews, Khurana and McMullin
also presented along with many of our PGR students and postdoctoral and research fellows.

Critical theorists at Essex (Schaub, Freyenhagen, Jütten) co-organised a conference in London,
‘The Right to Freedom: A Symposium on Critical Theory’; and a workshop on Adorno’s Negative
Dialectics.

Khurana organised a Humboldt-Kolleg at Yale University together with Professor Darwall on ‘The
Struggle for Recognition and the Authority of the Second Person’, involving scholars from Yale
(Darwall, Benhabib, Franks) and from Essex (Dews, Schaub, Khurana).

EoP hosted six Essex-based workshops and three London-based end-of-year conferences,
bringing in a host of international speakers and UK practitioners. These included Medical
Humanities Workshops on ‘Experiences of Powerlessness in End-of-Life Care’ and ‘Addiction,
Powerlessness and 12-Step Programmes’, alongside traditional academic meetings for example
on ‘Faith, Hope and Love as Virtues in Modernity’. Han-Pile and Watts led a workshop at UC
Berkeley on moral distress. Watts presented to the Tavistock-Essex Crossing Boundaries
Collaborative Research conference and delivered a minicourse at UC Santa Barbara on ‘The
Decentred Self’.

Recent events associated with EAP include a conference on ‘UK Engagement with the UNCRPD:
A Three Jurisdictions Approach’, a side-event to the 15th Session of the meeting of the UN
Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, a conference on ‘Is the MCA Compliant with
the UNCPRD? And if not, what next?’ and a conference and practitioner workshop on ‘Autonomy
and the End of Life’. Participants in the yearly EAP Summer School regularly include practitioners
in social work, law, medicine and psychiatry, as well as policy makers, students and academic
researchers and aims to bring participants up-to-date on the most recent policy changes, both
nationally and internationally, and to engage with the clinical, philosophical, and sociological issues
underpinning, and arising from, these changes.

Otherwise Essex philosophers have in this period given plenary presentations across the globe:

      North America: Boston, Brown, Berkeley, Brandeis, Chicago, Clark, Columbia, Fordham,
       Georgetown, Harvard, Kennebunkport Maine, Penn State, Princeton, Riverside, Ryerson,
       Santa Barbara, Seattle, Wake Forest, Wesleyan, Yale.

      Europe: Amiens, Amsterdam, Berlin, Braunschweig, Cluj, Dublin, Frankfurt a. M. Göttingen,
       Hamburg, München, Nijmegen, Oslo, Paris, Potsdam, Leipzig, Hochschule für Philosophie
       München, Frankfurt, Berlin, Stuttgart, Navarra, Lucerne, Upsala, Weimar, Wuppertal.

      UK: Birkbeck, Bristol, Cambridge, Glasgow, KCL, Leeds, Manchester, Oxford, Queen Mary,
       Sheffield, Stirling, Sussex, Southampton, Warwick, Winchester, York.

      Other: Bar Ilan, Brasilia, Jerusalem, Nanjing, Nankai, Suzhou, Tel Aviv, Sao Paulo

Academic Networks

Our Phenomenology and Existentialism cluster, and the EAP and EoP initiatives, have been
central to forging inter-disciplinary networks and collaborations in the Medical Humanities. EoP has
done so through its Academic Advisory Board—comprising Professors Green (Sociology, Essex),
Lasseter (Nursing, BYU), Mulhall (Philosophy, Oxford), Pattison (Glasgow), Taylor (Philosophy,
McGill), and Wrathall (Philosophy, UC Riverside/Oxford)—and through multiple research events


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
across three years. Participants in these events include Professors Benner (Nursing, UC
Berkeley), Aujoulat (Louvain), Epstein (Nursing, Virginia) Carel (Philosophy, Bristol); Carlson
(International Centre for Humanities and Social Change at UC Santa Barbara), Carmen
(Philosophy, New York Columbia), Kelly (Philosophy, Harvard), Kosch (Philosophy, Cornell
University, US), Kaufer (Philosophy, Franklin & Marshall, US), Richter (Institute of Protestant
Theology, Bonn), Katsafanas (Philosophy, Boston), Politis (Philosophy, Ireland), Ratcliffe
(Philosophy, Vienna), Schlimme (Universitätsmedizin, Berlin), Milberg (Linköping University,
Sweden); Siegal (Kings). EoP led to Han-Pile’s being named as a consultant on a large project on
resilience hosted at Bonn, Germany, led by Professor Richter.

Built up over the last decade, EAP’s extensive international research network includes Bach
(Institute for Research and Development on Inclusion and Society, Toronto), Kim (National Institute
of Health, Maryland), Leibowitz and Lu Han, (Open Society Foundations, New York), Gooding,
(Melbourne) Soei Len (Ohio) Lettmaiar, (Kiel), Anderson (Utrecht), Glen (New York). Freyenhagen
has collaborated with David Stuckler toward a project on feelings of powerlessness and health
outcomes (social science, Bocconi University).

Our Critical Theory and Race and Gender clusters, together with the CCP, have also build up their
own interdisciplinary networks and collaborations. Freyenhagen and Jütten are members of the
Association of Adorno Studies, spoke at its conferences and Freyenhagen sits on the editorial
board of its journal. Freyenhagen has links with Critical Theory in Berlin (led by Jaeggi), with a joint
grant application and contribution to workshops, colloquia, and its annual summer school for early-
career researchers in the field. Jütten and Schaub also contributed to workshops resulting from this
network. Freyenhagen has links with Nanterre University (Paris X), contributing to one of its
summer school for early-career researchers. Freyenhagen and Jütten have built a network with
Safatle (Sao Paolo), contributing to conferences, a jointly organised workshop, and preparing a
joint grant application during a visiting professorship for Safatle at Essex. Freyenhagen has formed
research links with Nanjing and Nankai University, resulting in mutual visits and research events.

CCP has an international advisory board which currently includes Honneth (Columbia), Hussain
(Toronto) and Satz (Stanford), who will advise on the strategic direction of its research. The Project
also has a link with Moore (Government, York). It will host annual international workshops for the
next four years.

Guillot and Wasmuth are in different ways building a wider academic network for our Omphalos
cluster. Guillot has a long-standing collaboration with Manuel Garcia-Carpintero at the LOGOS
institute (University of Barcelona). Wasmuth is collaborating with colleagues in the faculty of
theology at Oslo, towards a project on self-knowledge from antiquity to the middle ages. She also
has links with Cornelli where there is potential for further collaboration, on Plato and the theme of
social pathology. In addition, she has links with Viidebaum (NYU) with whom she is planning to co-
organise a workshop on characters in Plato's dialogue together.

Further collaborations reflect our reputation as a centre for European thought. Khurana is an
associate member of a GIF-Grant project ‘Life and Mind: An Exploration of the Metamorphoses of
the Kantian Moment in Philosophy’, directed by Professors Haag (Potsdam) and Friedlander (Tel
Aviv). Khurana is also a collaborator in the International Research Group ‘Bonds, Emotion and
Identity,’ (Universidad de Navarra, director: Professor José M. Torralba, Gonzalez). Schaub has
links with Rebentisch (HfG Offenbach, Germany) and is working toward a project on ‘Aesthetic
Freedom and Democratic Ethical Life’. Other potential collaborators include Reckwitz (Europa
University Viadrina, Frankfurt/Oder), Menke and Seel (Goethe University Frankfurt), Axel Honneth
(Columbia). Han-Pile is a member of the Nietzsche Circle. Han-Pile, Martin and Watts had links
with the Luther as Philosopher project headed by Stern (Sheffield). Han-Pile, Martin and Watts are
members of the American Society for Existential Phenomenology. Han-Pile and Watts have given
papers at the yearly meeting at Oxford organised by Wrathall on the Phenomenology of Religious
Life (Watts has presented at this forum in five consecutive years.) Han-Pile and Watts have also
begun a collaboration with Blösser and Huber at Frankfurt, on hope and despair. Watts has links
with Furnal in the theology faculty at Radboud, Nijmegen with whom he is currently co-organising a

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
conference on ‘Grace and works in Kierkegaard’

Non-academic Networks

Our ever-growing networks of non-academic partners reflect our core commitment to keeping
philosophy in touch with real-world social and existential issues. These networks include the
following:

Networks with politicians, civil servants, and legal professionals

EAP’s non-academic network by now extends far and wide. It encompasses inter alia the UK
Department of Health and Social Care, the UK Ministry of Justice, the Law Society of Scotland, the
Equality and Human Rights Commission, the Court of Protection and Practitioners Association.
One partner is the Westminster thinktank, the Institute for Government. This partnership offers
training for early career researchers in developing high-impact research in the humanities. Another
partner is CoPPA, the organisation for legal professionals in the Court of Protection and in cases
involving autonomy and human rights for people lacking in mental capacity. This year’s attendees
at the EAP summer school included a member of parliament.

Other key EAP partners include: Caughey (Equality and Human Rights Commission of Northern
Ireland); Bregaglio, (Commission for the Reform of the Civil Code of Peru); Keene (39 Essex
Chambers), Goulbourne (UK Ministry of Justice), Currie, (Regional DoLS Lead, Shropshire Local
Authority), Henriksen (Norwegian Commission on the Basic Rights of Persons with Intellectual
Disabilities), Judge Butler (Court of Protection and the Judicial College), Kerzner (Human Rights
and Disability Barrister, Toronto), Caron-Deglise (Justice of the Supreme Court, Paris), Tolub
(Disability Rights NGO, Tel Aviv), Shabani and Dimitrova (Bulgaria Centre for Non Profit Law),
Clarke (formerly Chief Law Commissioner of Ireland), Condell (Sage Advocacy, Ireland), Matakala
(Disability Rights Advocate, Zambia), Quejia, (Disability Rights Advocate, Peru), Salelkar (Disability
Rights Advocate, India).

Networks with patient groups, chaplains, and healthcare professionals

Through EoP, we have forged non-academic networks including with the signatories of the
Neuberger Report on the Liverpool Care Pathway for dying patients, Health Watch Essex, St
Helena’s Hospice Colchester and St Francis Hospice, Romford. We are currently pursuing an
exciting collaboration with Dr. Nazia Haider, Consultant Radiologist at Ipswich hospital and founder
of a Facebook group, the PMG UK (Physician Moms Group UK) which currently has over 20 000
members, all doctors. Dr Haider also set up a COVID-related sub-group without gender
requirements and which includes 11 000+ members and attracted a special feature in the British
Medical Journal in May 2020). Watts was recently invited to speak at the Association of Hospice
and Palliative Care Chaplain’s Conference.

Through EAP, other networks with healthcare professionals include: Carton (Principal Clinical
Neuropsychologist, National Rehabilitation Hospital, Ireland); Gleeson (National Programme Lead -
Assisted Decision Making, Health Service, Ireland); Association of Directors of Adult Social
Services, Local Health Authorities in Northumbria, Westmidlands, Cambridgeshire, Gloucester,
Chelmsford, Brighton & Hove, and regional NHS Trusts (Sussex, Essex, South London &
Maudsley, St George’s, NHS England and NHS Wales); the Mental Welfare Commission
(Scotland) and National Mental Capacity Forum (NMCF). EAP has also secured appointment to
the Equality and Human rights Topic Group as part of the Independent Review of the Mental
Health Act (England and Wales) and provides research support for the Ethics Committee at East
Suffolk and North Essex NHS Foundation Trust.

A series of five ‘Rapid Response’ webinars that EAP co-sponsored with NMCF have drawn over
2000 participants in total and have been viewed more than 5000 times on the SCIE and EAP
websites. The focus of the series was on ethical and human rights issues raised by the COVID-19
pandemic.

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Impact events and media presentations

EAP runs yearly Summer Schools, bringing in practitioners from various fields. The total number of
social workers and medical and legal professionals to which EAP staff have now provided training
is now in excess of 2,000. Martin is now included on an expert panel on Grand Rounds on
Anorexia Nervosa. EoP has also run study days at St Helena, St Francis and contributed to two
EAP Summer Schools. Impact associated with these two projects is further detailed in our impact
case studies.

Martin’s work on ex voto paintings wads used as the basis for an exhibition by the South London’s
Women’s Artist collective and an exhibition in London (April, 2019). As Director of EAP, Martin also
regularly gives keynotes at CoPPA conferences.

Arising out of his recent work on the phenomenology and ethics of risk, Burch provides training to
social workers and best interest assessors in Shrewsbury & Chelmsford.

Colleagues also have a wider presence in the media, including:

      Han-Pile and McMullin have both been invited panellists on BBC Radio 4’s In Our Time: on
       the topics of Schopenhauer (Han-Pile); Hope (Han-Pile) and ‘Authenticity' McMullin. (IOT
       continues to attract a large global audience. According to its producer, ‘the morning edition
       would have had c.2million listeners, the evening c.450k – and the podcast would have been
       downloaded c800k times in the first month after broadcast’).

      Khurana was Interviewed by Richard Marshall for 3ammagazine about his work on freedom
       (https://316am.site123.me/articles/freedom-s-tendency-to-get-ahead-of-itself-and-fall-short-
       etc?c=end-times-archive)

      Han-Pile was interviewed for the Institute of Art and Ideas (iai), about her work on EoP
       https://iai.tv/articles/the-ethics-of-powerlessness-an-interview-with-beatrice-han-pile-auid-
       1095

      Watts wrote a review article on Kierkegaard for the Times Literary Supplement. Finlayson is
       a regular contributor to the London Review of Books and the Guardian. Our research
       students have also made prominent media appearances: for example, Whyman has
       published opinion pieces in the Guardian and New York Times.

Refereeing, reviewing, external examining

All Essex philosophers regularly provide peer review for journals, in this period including the
following: American Philosophical Quarterly; Athenäum; British Journal for the History of
Philosophy; European Journal of Philosophy; Constellations; Hegel-Studien; Hegel Bulletin;
International Journal of Philosophical Studies; Journal of Philosophical Research; Mind; Mind and
Language; Dialectica; Erkenntnis; Review of Philosophy and Psychology; Sophos; Philosophical
Quarterly.

In addition to serving as external examiners for PhDs, staff also referee for research proposals for
such bodies the Irish Research Council, the NWO (Netherlands), DFG German Merit Foundation,
DAAD, the Humboldt-Foundation, and the Minerva Genter Foundation (Germany), the NEH, the
NIH Fulbright and Arthur Sachs Fellowships (USA).

Editorial contributions, fellowships and awards

      Burch and McMullin are co-editors with Jack Marsh, of a volume of essays in the series
       Routledge Research in Phenomenology, entitled Normativity, Meaning and the Promise of
       Phenomenology.

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

      Guillot is co-editor of a volume of essays entitled Mineness with Manuel García-Carpintero
       (LOGOS, University of Barcelona).

      Han-Pile is on the editorial board of History and Theory.

      Martin sits on several Peer Review Colleges associated with the UK Research Councils. He
       is also on the Editorial Board of the European Journal of Philosophy.

      McMullin is co-editor of a special issue of The Monist.

      Jütten is on the editorial board of Brill Research Perspectives in Critical Theory.

      Jütten, Schaub, Freyenhagen, and Finlayson are co-editors of the book series Essex
       Studies in Contemporary Critical Theory, Rowman & Littlefield International (four
       monographs published as of April 2019, two forthcoming).

      Watts is author of the Kierkegaard entries in Oxford Bibliographies Online and the
       Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy (forthcoming).




                                                                                             Page 14
