Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: Royal Holloway, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 33. Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1a. Overview and structure
 The Departments of Drama, Theatre and Dance (Drama) and Music form a large, vibrant unit
 with 31.8fte Category A staff and 100 registered PhD students. Since 2019 we have been part
 of the School of Performing and Digital Arts (PDA), along with the Department of Media Arts.

 In REF2014 Drama and Music received GPAs of 3.22 and 3.26 respectively, each in the top 10
 of departments for their subjects. We host the UK’s only Regius Professorship in Music,
 awarded in recognition of our contribution to the discipline, and inaugurated in 2014 by the
 Queen’s visit. Since 2014 we have enhanced our existing strengths, establishing the Centre for
 Contemporary British Theatre and the Centre for Asian Theatre and Dance to give focus to our
 work in these areas. We have also developed new areas of expertise such as digital creativity,
 contemporary music performance, social action through music, and performance in museums.
 Our research is socially engaged and promotes equality, social justice and increased cultural
 participation. To maximise the public benefit of our research, we work in partnership with arts
 organisations and cultural institutions such as the British Library, BBC National Orchestra of
 Wales, National Theatre and Tate Modern. We play a key role in major cross-disciplinary
 projects and partnerships, including the Techne AHRC Doctoral Partnership, and StoryFutures
 (the AHRC Creative Industries Cluster in immersive storytelling). Our contribution to the sector
 includes our direction of the Institute of Musical Research, a national centre for collaboration in
 music studies that has included provision for 27 postdoctoral scholars.
 Our research is global in scope (crossing all five continents) and features a broad chronology
 (from early modern to contemporary) and an interaction of critical and creative work. We
 encompass a wide range of methodologies including applied performance, composition, critical
 studies of drama and dance, ethnomusicology, historical musicology, music analysis, music
 performance, performance histories, performance technologies, philosophies of the arts, and
 theatre history. Our research is structured across six interlocking clusters:

 Contemporary theatre, performance and composition combines critical approaches to
 drama in Europe and across the world, and practice-based work in playwriting, theatre
 directing, musical composition and performance.
 Digital creativity, screen media and the performing arts builds on our strengths in cinematic
 music and in indigeneity and digital media, to develop critical and practice-based investigations
 of intermedial performances, interactive multimedia, and body/technology interactions.
 Global/transnational perspectives explores music, drama and dance as global phenomena,
 using methods from ethnography, historical/cultural studies, creative practice, and the geo-
 humanities.
 Inclusion, participation and decolonisation in the performing arts includes critical and
 practice-based work on social action through participatory arts, and studies of race, indigeneity,
 decolonisation and performance.
 Modernity and the performing arts investigates how music and theatre shape ideas of
 cultural, intellectual and philosophical modernities in Europe and globally.
 Theatre/music history, heritage and archiving has extended our strengths in cultural histories
 of the performing arts, by developing new work on museums and performance, heritage law,
 and innovative approaches to digital archiving and data.

 Research is overseen by departmental Research Leads reporting to a PDA School Director of
 Research & Knowledge Exchange, who reports to the Deputy Principal (Academic).


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Departmental and School research committees set strategy and hold budgets to support
 research activities.

 1b. Review of research objectives 2014–20
 Drama and Music have implemented the following research objectives described in REF2014:

 To pursue pathbreaking and transdisciplinary research. In the current REF period our
 contributions to scholarship include 26 monographs, 22 edited books, 394 chapters or articles,
 and 83 practice-based outputs. Our research is published in or translated into 11 languages
 (including Dutch, German, Hebrew, Japanese, Korean, Mandarin, Polish, Portuguese, Russian
 and Spanish); our creative work has been performed in over 20 countries. Since 2014 we have
 created research clusters to organise our research thematically, cutting across methodological
 and disciplinary boundaries. The clusters allow us to probe questions corresponding to national
 and international priorities from a variety of perspectives, enabling collaborations such as
 Ramnarine (Music) and Purkayastha (Drama) on dance, decolonisation and the Indian diaspora.
 The creation of the PDA School in 2019 has facilitated further cross-disciplinary collaborations
 including work with Media Arts on virtual reality, immersive storytelling and cyborg cultures
 (Kanga, Mancewicz, Parker-Starbuck, Summers).

 To contribute to our disciplines through leadership roles and collaborations / networks.
 We have given intellectual leadership to our disciplines, as enabled by the award of 2 AHRC
 Leadership Fellowships and 3 Leverhulme Major Research Fellowships to promote work on the
 social impact of music (Baker), operatic composition (Bowden), music and language (Johnson),
 ideologies of 20th-century opera (Harper-Scott), and migration of musical instruments (Beckles
 Willson). Our editorial leadership of the discipline includes 4 co-/edited book series, 8 journal
 special-issues, and editorship of 9 major journals listed in section 4e. Our leadership of the
 Institute of Musical Research (after its threatened closure by the University of London) has put
 this national centre for research networking on a sustainable footing. It has promoted
 collaborations with 29 HEIs in the UK and internationally, described in section 4a. Drama’s
 Centre for Contemporary British Theatre (director: Megson) and Centre for Asian Theatre and
 Dance (director: Thorpe) promote connections between critical research, creative practitioners
 and the theatre industry, organising annual symposia and the Noh theatre training project.

 To maximise the influence and impact of research beyond the academy. Our strategy has
 involved building partnerships with theatre companies, orchestras, museums and arts education
 programmes, to enable our research to reach and benefit wide publics. Gilbert’s ERC-funded
 project ‘Indigeneity in the contemporary world’ led to the Southbank exhibition EcoCentrix, which
 was shortlisted for a National Engagement Award. Lease’s AHRC-funded project ‘Staging
 Difficult Pasts’ has introduced performances into museums in Argentina, Poland and the UK, to
 enhance the curation and public understanding of objects associated with traumatic memories.
 We played a leading role in the formation of Tate Exchange, creating a forum for knowledge
 exchange in the creative arts. Our work on participatory arts has benefitted marginalised groups
 such as asylum seekers, refugees and ex-combatants (Beckles Willson, Estrada-Fuentes),
 developed new notions of citizenship through music (Baker), and shown the social value of
 amateur and community theatre (Nicholson).

 To realise the potential of new performance spaces to extend our practice-based
 research. Investment in the previous REF period led to the opening of two new performance
 spaces in 2013–14: the £3m Boilerhouse Auditorium (Music) and the £3m Caryl Churchill
 Theatre (Drama). Since 2014 we have recruited 7 practice-based researchers, strengthening our
 expertise in theatre directing (Mitchell, Overend), concert composition (Fernando), contemporary
 performance (Dullea), digital creativity (Kanga), site-specific creativity (Ko), and sound design
 (Parkinson). Their practice-based research in our new performance spaces has facilitated such
 projects as 15 CDs of contemporary music, collaborations with dance companies including
 Royal Ballet and Ivgi & Greben, and the production The Majority at the National Theatre. These
 projects have also furthered our strategic objective of collaborating with the creative industries.

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 To maximise the potential of colleagues, via flexible, inclusive structures. We have
 nurtured an inclusive research community that enables staff to realise their full potential in
 individual and collaborative projects. By enhancing our sabbatical scheme to offer two terms’
 leave in twelve of service, we have increased our completion rate of monographs and our
 submissions of grant applications. Improved mentoring systems and college training
 programmes have helped colleagues to diversify their research activities, develop as research
 leaders, and exploit new opportunities such as the Global Challenges Research Fund / Newton
 Fund (which funded Blanco and Lease’s project ‘Embodied Performance Practices in Processes
 of Reconciliation in Colombia').

 To attract and sustain a PGR community with outstanding potential, through supervision
 and training programmes that address 21st-century challenges. We have grown our PhD
 cohort by 25%: total completions have risen from 81.5fte in 2007–13 to 119.4fte in 2013–20. To
 sustain this PGR community, we have taken leading roles in the Techne AHRC Doctoral
 Training Partnership (director: Normington), which supplies funding and collaborative
 opportunities for RHUL students. We have further supported our PhD students through in-house
 and collaborative initiatives in training, including Drama’s ‘Ways of Working’ programme, now
 extended across the PDA School; and a music postgraduate training network with Uppsala
 University and the Leipzig Bach-Archiv (supported by a £127k grant).

 1c. Research objectives, 2021–26
 We aim to ensure the sustainability of our research by following the principles outlined in RHUL's
 Strategy 2020–24, balancing investigator-led and challenge-led research. We will implement the
 RHUL structures for research by working collaboratively with the new Catalyst Hubs, and by
 undertaking a strategic review of our research centres in relation to college and funder priorities.

 Our objectives include:
    ● To develop our cluster on digital creativity, in conjunction with the RHUL Catalyst Hub
        Digital Futures in the Creative and Cultural Industries. We plan to address challenges
        faced by the post-Covid creative industries, including transformative technologies and
        the changing needs of audiences. Projects underway include collaborations with
        StoryFutures involving virtual reality in opera (Fernando) and theatre (Mancewicz); and
        Kanga’s UKRI project ‘Cyborg Soloists: Advancing Interdisciplinary Music in the Post-
        Internet Age’ (£1.2m).
    ● To develop our cluster on inclusion and participation to investigate how the arts can
        address social inequality and regional fragmentation. Projects underway include
        Nicholson’s AHRC-funded project ‘Civic Theatre: A Place for Towns’ (AHRC, £245k), in
        partnership with the National Theatre, Manchester Royal Exchange, Little Theatre Guild
        and Tribe Arts; Baker’s ‘Music for Social Impact’ (AHRC, £85k), in collaboration with
        music charity Social Impact of Making Music; Goddard’s study on inclusion and access
        for Black British theatre directors.
    ● To develop our cluster on theatre/music history and heritage, through collaborations with
        archives and museums. Plans include completion of the AHRC-funded project ‘Staging
        Difficult Pasts’ (Lease); investigations of performance events staged in art galleries and
        museums (Guy); publications on indigenous heritage law (Stobart).
    ● To develop our cluster on global perspectives to engage with current priorities about
        climate change, ecological sustainability and the arts. Contracted projects include a 3-
        year collaboration ‘Australian Ecological Theatre’ funded by the Australian Research
        Council (Parker-Starbuck) and an opera Sea Change for Welsh National Opera
        (Bowden).
    ● To enable our staff to produce outputs of the highest quality and to increase applications
        for research funding, via support mechanisms including mentoring, peer-reading of work,
        incubators for research proposals, and a viable system of sabbaticals.
    ● To enhance our environment for PhD students, by securing studentships and by
        providing training programmes appropriate for current challenges.


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    ●   To enhance the infrastructure and physical estate for Drama and Music research,
        including technical provision for our work on digital creativity and spaces for practice-
        based research.

 1d. Strategy and approaches for enabling impact
 The impact of research in Drama and Music focuses on three broad areas, reflecting our
 strategic priorities:

    ●   Social action and inclusion in the arts, with beneficiaries including arts venues,
        educators, practitioners, policy makers, and amateur participants. Building on our
        expertise in applied drama and the health sector (REF2014 case-study), we have
        developed new areas of impact represented by the case-studies ‘Enhancing lives
        through new approaches to participatory arts’ (Beckles Willson/Nicholson) and
        ‘Transforming public understandings of El Sistema’ (Baker).
    ●   Curating and staging cultural heritage, with beneficiaries including museums,
        galleries, archives, and legislators of heritage law. A new direction since 2014, this strand
        of impact includes work on indigenous performances with museums in Berlin and London
        (Gilbert), the Alta-PI project on heritage law in Bolivia (Stobart), and the case-study
        ‘Innovating the staging and curation of difficult pasts in museums’ (Lease).
    ●   Enhancing the cultural experiences of arts audiences and professionals through
        research on repertories and their contexts, with beneficiaries including cultural
        organisations, professional performers, and audience members. Building on our
        REF2014 case-studies, we continue to work with venues, ensembles and broadcasters
        to curate, influence and enhance programming (Berry, Downes, Johnson). Our
        contributions to reports for the British Theatre Consortium are changing attitudes to
        repertory, spectatorship and value (Megson, Rebellato).

 To enable our research to achieve impact, we build mutually advantageous partnerships with
 stakeholders and beneficiaries. These partnerships facilitate the co-creation of knowledge in
 joint research projects (e.g. with the British Library) and knowledge exchange activities (e.g. with
 Tate Modern). Our partnerships with the ESMA Museum (Argentina), Kraków Ethnographic
 Museum and Imperial War Museum have enabled our research insights to influence curation
 practices and help these museums reach new audiences. The StoryFutures project involves our
 staff working in partnership with technology firms, to meet challenges set by major institutions
 such as the National Gallery and Heathrow Airport.

 We facilitate the achievement of impact via a support structure led by departmental Directors
 of Impact (until 2019), and currently School Director of External Engagement and Director of
 Research & Knowledge Exchange. Departmental training and mentoring ensure that staff
 maximise opportunities for impact by identifying and involving appropriate stakeholders in their
 research, and capture data about the resultant impact. Departmental funds and RHUL’s
 Research Strategy Fund have supported 15 colleagues to develop impact activities, for instance
 building partnerships through networking activities and stakeholder engagement, or developing
 platforms for practice-based work to reach wider audiences. Our PGRs are trained in developing
 pathways to impact, using opportunities including AHRC Creative Economy Engagement
 Fellowships (e.g. Reimers with the Equity Women’s Committee) and work with Collaborative
 Doctoral Award partners (e.g. Ritzema’s exhibition ‘Walter Raleigh’ at the British Library).

 Our future strategy for impact will develop national and transnational partnerships to create
 impact related to our research clusters, including: impact on policy-making in relation to cultural
 participation and inclusion; impact on creative industries via work on digital technologies and
 body-technology interaction; impact on museums and the heritage sector via new approaches to
 arts heritage, documenting performance and the performance of memory; impact on social
 attitudes to contemporary global challenges such as climate change and post-conflict resolution.



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 1e. Interdisciplinarity
 We foster interdisciplinary research which crosses the porous boundaries between the
 performing arts, and explores broader connections with the humanities and the social and
 natural sciences. Our six research clusters are inherently interdisciplinary, bringing together
 different methodologies and disciplines to address current challenges (e.g. Ramnarine, Cohen
 and Tan’s investigation of the changing functions of orchestras in global contexts). The
 formation of the PDA School in 2019 has enabled further interdisciplinary collaborations that
 recognise the needs of the creative and digital economies. This interdisciplinarity is exemplified
 by the StoryFutures project led by Media Arts, in which Parker-Starbuck is Co-I and Storylab
 R&D lead. StoryFutures has enabled our staff to explore new creative forms such as hyper-
 reality opera (Fernando with Royal Opera House) and virtual reality in live performance
 (Mancewicz).

 Interdisciplinary research with other schools at RHUL is stimulated by college research centres
 and institutes. The Centre for Geo-Humanities has supported 9 colleagues from this unit and 5
 PhDs co-supervised with Geography, strengthening our work on global perspectives and the
 participatory arts. The Humanities & Arts Research Institute has funded collaborations by 6
 colleagues including Brodzinski’s ‘Professionalism in Performance’ (with Social Work); Lease’s
 ‘Bystanding Landscapes: Performance, Action, Memory’ (with Politics); Morcom’s ‘Exoticism in
 Contemporary Cinema’ (with Media Arts); Nicholson’s ‘Cultural Participation in Place’ and
 Overend’s ‘Wild Geographies’ (with Geography). The Centre for Victorian Studies has funded
 our collaborations with English and History (Downes on sentimentalism; Rebellato,
 ‘(Re)imagining Nora’).

 Our staff take key roles in leading Royal Holloway’s infrastructure for supporting
 interdisciplinary research. Beckles Willson directed the Humanities & Arts Research Institute for
 3 years, initiating collaborations on cultural geography, sound studies and the arts. In her role as
 Vice-Principal for Research Impact and Interdisciplinarity, Nicholson promotes interdisciplinary
 research including the use of HE Innovation Fund / QR uplift funds for Johnson’s Music,
 Language and Cognition initiative (with Psychology) and Megson’s project Equality, Diversity
 and Inclusion in Performing Arts, Heritage and Cultural Organisations (with History and
 Management).

 To maintain the sustainability of our interdisciplinary research, our strategy seeks external
 cross-disciplinary collaborations to address international priorities such as those identified by
 the Global Challenges Research Fund and Newton Fund. This has facilitated work with
 ethnographers (Blanco and Lease: Newton funding to work with Corp-Oraloteca at
 Technological University of Chocó on the project ‘Embodied Performance Practices’),
 psychologists (Baker’s ‘Music for Social Impact’, funded by AHRC), and anthropologists
 (Stobart’s collaboration with Bigenho, funded by American Council of Learned Societies).
 Collaboration with literary scholars allowed Ramnarine to address contemporary questions of
 migration and identity arising from the Windrush 70th Anniversary and Centenary of Abolition of
 Indian Indenture.

 1f. Open research environment and research integrity
 Drama and Music follow RHUL’s institutional procedures to maximise the quantity of openly
 available research. Our strategies reflect the demands and public profile of our disciplines, and
 are informed by our critical rethinking of intellectual property within an economy of sharing
 (Stobart’s Alta-IP project). Staff training and advocacy of open-access research has encouraged
 colleagues to publish under a range of Creative Commons licences and formats: in the census
 period, 38% of our journal articles are gold open-access (going beyond REF requirements).

 We design our research projects to create open digital archives where possible, for instance
 Lease’s AHRC-funded projects and Gilbert’s EcoCentrix exhibition. Rose’s AHRC-funded project
 A Big Data History of Music made British Library catalogue data on music openly available for

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 exploration and analysis. Our practice-based researchers are developing innovative solutions
 for making their work openly available, while preserving viable economic models for the creative
 arts. Kanga’s Wikipiano project offers a new model of collective authorship where the score and
 performances are shared online. Dullea’s collaboration with the Irish Contemporary Music
 Centre is developing a web platform to share contemporary repertory. Staff and PGR composers
 share recordings of their work via their websites or SoundCloud, and make view-only versions of
 digital scores openly available via ISSUU plug-ins or Youtube score-follower.

 We use blogs to share pre-prints of articles and interact with non-academic audiences, as with
 Baker’s blog on El Sistema and Beckles Willson’s Oud Migrations website. Berry’s blog
 Boulezian has made his critical perspectives available to performers and operagoers, receiving
 2.5 million page views since 2007; in 2019 it was included in the UK Web Archive. We maximise
 the international reach of our digital outputs by including multilingual interfaces: Baker’s blog is
 also in Spanish; Lease’s digital archives have interfaces in Afrikaans, Polish and Spanish.

 Our commitment to research integrity is informed by a critical approach that arises from our
 work with human subjects and confronts issues of positionality and representation. We follow
 Royal Holloway’s code of research ethics, obtaining institutional approval for projects with ethical
 implications. Adherence to these procedures is monitored by departmental and School research
 committees, with further oversight by the college's research committees. Ramnarine and Tan
 contributed to the 2019 revision of RHUL’s procedures for ethical approval, and to the
 development of ethical frameworks by the British Forum for Ethnomusicology (BFE) and Society
 for Ethnomusicology. Ethical training is mandatory through RHUL’s Advance programme for all
 new staff, and is embedded in our PGR provision, referring to frameworks provided by the
 American Anthropological Association and BFE.

 2. People

 2a. Staffing strategy
 Our staffing strategy aims to promote equality and inclusion in our community of researchers,
 and to strengthen priority research areas through new appointments. To maintain a balanced
 demographic profile across all career stages of staff, we have recruited research leaders (e.g.
 Parker-Starbuck), while regenerating the profession with early career appointments (e.g.
 Estrada-Fuentes, Ko, Parkinson, Summers).
 In the census period, new appointments have increased our expertise in:
     ● practice-based research including theatre directing, musical performance and
         composition (Dullea, Kanga, Ko, Mitchell, Overend, Parkinson, Whiteman);
     ● digital creativity and the performing arts (Kanga, Mancewicz, Parker-Starbuck,
         Parkinson, Summers);
     ● global perspectives and inclusion / decolonisation (Estrada-Fuentes, Purkayastha);
     ● museums and performance (Guy).

 To implement our aims for interdisciplinarity and collaboration, we prioritise staff able to work
 across disciplinary fields and with the creative and cultural sectors. Relevant appointments
 include Mancewicz (expertise in European theatre and digital intermediality), Parkinson (sound
 design for hybrid art, including collaborations with theatre and dance), Purkayastha (Indian
 dance, transnational perspectives, decolonisation) and Summers (music for video games).
 This strategy has enabled our unit to maintain a stable number of permanent staff during the
 census period: the 9.5fte staff who retired or moved to another institution have been replaced in
 equivalent or priority research areas. All Category A staff, including practitioners with fractional
 posts, have permanent contracts (except for postdoctoral researchers funded by time-limited
 grants).




                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To promote the next generation of researchers, we annually advertise and select applicants for
 postdoctoral fellowship competitions. Since 2014 we have hosted British Academy, Leverhulme
 and Marie Skłodowska-Curie fellowships (Cenciarelli, Kanga and MacGregor).

 2b. Equality and diversity
 To implement our commitment to an inclusive academic community, our recruitment prioritises
 racial and gender equality. Drama and Music have 22% Black and Global Majority staff, a high
 proportion relative to the sector (17% across all disciplines, HESA 2018/19). We have 53%
 female/non-binary and 47% male staff (discipline norm is 46% female, 54% male, HESA
 2018/19). Music promotes equality in fields historically dominated by men, appointing women to
 three of the four posts in composition advertised since 2014 (two of them from Black and Global
 Majority backgrounds) and a woman as Director of Performance in 2015.
 To ensure staff from a wide cross-section of society feel supported and thrive here, we
 encourage flexible working practices, and promote equality for part-time staff such as creative
 practitioners. Staff can negotiate fractional contracts to enhance work-life balance, and/or
 facilitate career development opportunities (including secondments, external work as
 practitioners, and college senior management roles). A formal process for negotiating flexible or
 remote working, reviewed annually to support changing needs, allows approximately 30% of
 staff to combine research careers with caring and other responsibilities. Reasonable
 adjustments permit staff (e.g. with chronic health conditions or protected religious
 characteristics) to pursue their research careers at the highest level. Staff taking maternity or
 parental leave are offered a term’s sabbatical on their return to re-integrate them into research.
 Our workload model gives equal research time to all staff regardless of career stage (pro rata
 where applicable).
 Initiatives to eradicate structural racism and boost the inclusiveness of our research environment
 are led by departmental equality champions and School Director of Equality (Tan), including safe
 space discussions, unconscious bias training, and conversations on Black and LGBTQI+
 representation in academia and the performing arts. We curate research seminars and other
 events to ensure that the speakers and topics represent the full range of voices within our
 disciplines globally. In 2020 Music’s research seminars had 60% women and 40% Black and
 Global Majority speakers.
 Sections 2c and 2d show how our commitment to equality underpins our policies for staff
 development, sabbaticals, promotion and research support, and our environment for research
 students. We implement the policies described in REF5a, including mandatory training in
 unconscious bias for staff responsible for recruitment, leadership, management and promotions.
 The membership of our committees and recruitment/promotion panels represents the diversity of
 colleagues in terms of gender, race, other protected characteristics, career stage and
 subdiscipline.
 We have considered equality and diversity in our selection of REF outputs in accordance with
 RHUL’s code of practice. Eligible outputs were assessed for quality by two internal reviewers,
 with moderation by external reviewers. Our unit steering group conducted an equality impact
 assessment to ensure the submission reflects our staff demographic and our commitment to
 equality.

 2c. Staff development, sabbaticals, reward & recognition
 We promote staff development at all stages of colleagues’ careers, within a supportive
 environment for sharing ideas and achieving research goals. Staff have annual Performance
 Development Reviews overseen by HoD, and Research Reviews with departmental Research
 Leads to plan research goals, funding applications and dissemination strategies. All colleagues
 benefit from RHUL Organisational Development’s Advance programme, which includes courses
 on research project design and management, developing funding bids, and planning impact.
 Research & Innovation have delivered workshops tailored to our departments’ needs, for
 instance on applying to GCRF. As part of our commitment to equality and inclusion, six staff

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 have benefitted from the courses Aurora Women in Leadership; Mandala Leadership
 programme for Black and Global Majority staff; and Stellar Programme for diverse leaders.

 Support for early career researchers (including those on fixed-term postdoctoral fellowships) is
 built into the probation scheme. Probationers receive lighter teaching and administrative loads,
 and are mentored by a probation advisor (an experienced departmental colleague) who assists
 in planning career development including relevant outputs and grant applications. The success
 of our strategy is shown by the achievements of early career staff while on probation, including
 Fernando’s Formations for London Sinfonietta; Kanga’s Wikipiano; and Overend directing The
 Majority at the National Theatre.
 Since 2014 we have enhanced training for mid- and later-career colleagues, supporting their
 development as leaders within the changing landscapes for research. Mentoring is offered by
 departmental Research Leads, in conjunction with training programmes such as Advance. Our
 introduction of peer-reviewing each other’s work before submission has improved quality and
 boosted collective awareness of our research. We have focused on supporting mid- and later-
 career colleagues in developing grant applications, including collaborative projects; this
 approach has led to successful bids by Beckles Willson, Berry, Blanco, Bowden, Harper-Scott,
 Johnson, Lease, Nicholson and Rose (see 3a).
 Staff development as researchers is supported by funds allocated by departmental research
 committees, RHUL Organisational Development, and Research Strategy Fund. A generous
 departmental allowance (up to £1200 per staff member) has led to more attendance at
 international conferences, and also supports fieldwork, publication preparation, and public
 sharing of practice-based research (e.g. recordings of compositions). Funds enable colleagues
 to develop new research skills (e.g. Beckles Willson’s skills in intercultural performance, which
 enabled her successful application for a Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship).
 Our success in implementing the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers is shown by the achievements of postdoctoral researchers on fixed-term grant-
 funded appointments. Postdoctoral fellows and RAs are fully integrated into our research
 environment, gaining the necessary academic training and experience to secure permanent
 lectureships (Bennett at Essex; Cenciarelli at Cardiff; Flynn at Birkbeck; Sizemore-Barber at
 Georgetown), prestigious fellowships (MacGregor at KCL) or other prestigious roles
 (Drosopoulou: music curator at British Library).
 In addition to these formal systems of training, we encourage an intellectually stimulating
 research environment through seminars and research afternoons, including Music’s fortnightly
 research seminars; research days for PGR students and staff; and events organised by our
 research centres. Regular lunches and curated conversations create informal spaces for staff to
 discuss shared research themes, new ideas, and work at early stages.
 All Category A staff who have passed probation can apply for sabbaticals, including staff on
 fractional contracts such as practitioners. In 2015–16 we enhanced our sabbatical system to
 offer 2 terms sabbatical per 12 terms of service, to support completion of major projects and/or
 major grant applications. To ensure equitable provision of study leave, both departments
 maintain a schedule of sabbaticals received and expected. Achievements during research leave
 are monitored via reports to departmental/School committees, and include the completion of
 monographs (Baker, Berry, Goddard, Harper-Scott, Johnson, Ramnarine, Rose) and successful
 grant applications (Blanco, Lease).
 Exchanges with industry/public sector/third-sector bodies allow us to implement our
 strategy of partnerships with the creative and cultural sectors, helping us to understand better
 the beneficiaries of our research and build pathways for impact. Visiting professorships enable
 distinguished industry practitioners to spend time at RHUL (e.g. Kwame Kwei-Armah). We
 encourage departmental staff to take placements and secondments, supported by funded
 fellowships or by negotiating temporary flexibility in contracts. In 2017–18 Baker used AHRC
 funding to embed himself with the music programme Red de Escuelas de Música de Medellín,
 participating in management meetings and sharing his research insights. This placement led the

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 programme to incorporate notions of artistic citizenship in its work. In 2020 Baker began a 2-
 year secondment as Head of Research at Agrigento, a charity that connects practice and critical
 research in the field of music as social action. Bowden’s Artist Residency at CERN supported
 his work on A Violence of Gifts; his Leverhulme fellowship in 2018–20 supported his work with
 Welsh National Opera. Exchanges with small/medium enterprise companies are funded by the
 StoryFutures project, including Mancewicz’s work with Nexus Studios on augmented-reality
 avatars in theatre.
 Policies for recognition and reward acknowledge colleagues’ successes in research and
 impact. The promotion matrix takes an integrated view of staff achievements in research,
 teaching, external engagement and leadership, with the criterion ‘Research’ recognising the
 different profiles of colleagues in terms of books, articles/chapters, practice-based research,
 grants, impact activities, and disciplinary leadership. Departmental promotions committees
 assure fairness by considering anonymised CVs of all non-professorial staff, paying particular
 attention to the career progression of staff belonging to groups that are typically disadvantaged.
 The committees offer feedback on staff CVs in relation to the promotion matrix, and help
 colleagues to optimise applications before these go to School and college committees.
 Since 2014 there have been 26 promotions (7 to SL, 12 to reader, 7 to professor); 7 colleagues
 have been promoted twice. In line with our unit’s gender profile, 54% of promotions were to
 women and non-binary colleagues; this success reflects the support of the Times Higher
 Education award-winning ‘Enabling Women in the Promotion Process’, taken by 9 colleagues
 seeking to optimise their promotion prospects. Professorial banding, introduced college-wide in
 2011, creates a progression structure for professors and we currently have professors across all
 bands. 54% of our professors are women and non-binary, and 23% are on part-time permanent
 contracts, again showing our commitment to promoting equality.

 2d. Research students: recruitment, training, supervision
 Drama and Music form a leading centre for PhD research, with at least 100 students registered
 at any time since 2014. Departmental and School Directors of Graduate Studies promote a
 dynamic research community that capitalises on the interdisciplinary connections across School
 and college, equipping PGRs to meet 21st-century challenges in their research and careers.
 Our PGR recruitment builds on our departments’ international reputations, to attract a diverse
 intake of students from 31 countries. Recruitment in strategic or under-represented research
 areas is targeted via designated studentships and international advertising. Royal Holloway’s
 leadership of the AHRC Techne funding consortium is central to our recruitment and support
 strategy. During the census period we have had 14 Techne studentships, and 36 students
 funded via college or departmental studentships. As part of our strategy to build partnerships
 beyond academia, we have gained collaborative doctoral awards (CDAs) with the Barbican,
 British Library and Foundling Museum.
 Our use of team supervision recognises the importance of collaboration and interdisciplinarity,
 while allowing early career staff to gain proficiency in supervision alongside experienced
 colleagues. Interdisciplinary projects are co-supervised with other departments including
 Geography, History, Management, Media Arts, Modern Languages and Psychology (12 current
 students; 10 completions since 2014). The excellence of our PhD supervisory practice was
 acknowledged by Megson winning the RHUL inaugural Research Supervisor of the Year award,
 and being shortlisted for the Times Higher award of the same name.
 Student progress is monitored via annual reviews, where the supervisory team, the student
 and an independent chair consider supervision reports and the student’s thesis plan, progress
 report, training log, and timetable for completion. Upgrades from MPhil to PhD status occur 12–
 18 months after first registration and require submission of a sample chapter (or practice-based
 equivalent), an academic paper presentation, and an interview with the supervisory team and
 independent chair. This rigorous and constructive approach evaluates the viability of students’
 projects, giving them guidance and experience in orally defending their work. Mock vivas further


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 prepare students for defending their theses. The effectiveness of our support strategy is shown
 by a completion rate of 96% of students who have successfully upgraded.
 Our PGR training equips students for the interdisciplinary environment of 21st-century
 research. Students’ training needs are identified and monitored via annual reviews and the
 training log. RHUL’s Researcher Development Programme offers workshops in project
 management, writing / presentation skills, and viva preparation, allowing students from across
 college to develop an interdisciplinary support network. Techne provides training and networking
 opportunities with other universities in the consortium, including a twice-yearly congress, Conflux
 events and training days. The School’s ‘Ways of Working’ programme, initiated by Drama and
 now run collaboratively with Music and Media Arts, covers topics such as methodology, research
 ethics, archival work, impact, publishing strategies, and career progression. The Practice-Based
 Researcher Programme focuses on specific challenges for these PGRs such as defining
 research questions and documenting practice. Discipline-specific training is offered via
 Postgraduate Days (Music), Research Afternoons (Drama) and specialist workshops responding
 to student training needs (e.g. study day on music manuscripts at Foundling Museum).
 Individual training (e.g. archival curation, video editing, language learning) is supported
 financially by departments or Techne. Teaching assistantships are available for students wishing
 to develop skills in HE teaching; 50 PhD students have taken the InSTIL teacher training course
 that leads to Associate Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy. The academic writing skills
 of second-language students are supported via one-to-one sessions with RHUL International.
 Student well-being is embedded throughout our PGR training (e.g. Brodzinski’s initiatives
 ‘Breathing Space’ and ‘Taking Care of Your “Self”’).
 PGRs gain networking and leadership skills by organising and chairing research seminars,
 research days/symposia and reading groups. Conference attendance is supported by annual
 departmental funds of £250 per student. A team of Drama students edit and publish Platform,
 the peer-reviewed twice-yearly journal that provides PGRs and ECRs with opportunities to
 publish their work. These student-led initiatives are supported by departmental or external
 grants. The £127k grant ‘Musical-Cultural Exchange in Early Modern Europe’ (from the Swedish
 Foundation for International Co-Operation in Research and Higher Education) supported
 research exchanges and training events with Uppsala University and the Leipzig Bach-Archiv,
 including 8 student-led symposia and 7 student placements. The Critical Theory for Musicology
 reading group gained £2k in external grants to support its international conferences (2016,
 2018). We encourage our students to take leadership roles in the discipline (e.g. Summerskill,
 founding chair of UK Oral History Society LGBTQ Special Interest Group).
 Our collaborations and placement schemes beyond HE enhance the impact of PhD students’
 projects and develop their employability. Our participation in Tate Exchange has allowed PGRs
 to work with staff on themed sessions and events for public audiences at Tate Modern. Students
 holding CDAs have held public events/exhibitions at the Barbican, British Library and Foundling
 Museum. Placements funded by Techne allow students to exchange knowledge and gain
 experience outside HE, for instance with Policy Lab at UK Cabinet Office, or geo-humanities
 project Layers of London.
 Our success in preparing PhD students for employment is shown by the career destinations of
 graduates in the census period, including lectureships (Anglia Ruskin, Brigham Young, Brighton,
 Essex, Goldsmiths, Keele, Kobe, Liverpool Hope, Manchester, Newcastle, Örebro, Portsmouth,
 Surrey, and Taiwan) and prestigious postdoctoral fellowships including British Academy (x2),
 Leverhulme Early Career (x5), EU Marie Curie, Wiener-Ansbach, Swedish Research Council,
 and Newberry Library Chicago. As a result of our extension of training to ensure PGRs are
 equipped for a range of work, graduates have developed careers outside academia, for instance
 at the V&A Museum, Sir John Soane’s Museum, and Zooniverse.
 The effectiveness of our training of PGRs in publication strategies is shown by their articles in
 prestigious refereed journals such as Contemporary Theatre Review, Journal of the Royal
 Musical Association and Research in Drama Education; work in interdisciplinary journals such
 as Past & Present, Performance Research and Renaissance Studies; and books with

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Bloomsbury (Vaughan), Edinburgh University Press (Ashby) and Routledge (Bank, Love,
 Summerskill). Creative outputs include plays published by Tollington Press (Summerskill); and
 composition commissions including BBC Proms, BBC Symphony Orchestra and Royal Opera
 House (Higgins); National Theatre and Scottish Ballet (Parkinson); and London Philharmonic
 Orchestra (Dearden).
 The successes of our PGRs are shown by prizes, including Seeger prize of Society for
 Ethnomusicology (Whittaker, 2014), British Forum for Ethnomusicology student prize (Young,
 2018), Society for Music Analysis TAGS Prize (Chandler, 2017), TaPRA Early Career Award
 (runner-up, Alston, 2015), Singapore Youth Award and India-ASEAN Youth Award (Farid, 2017,
 2018), and ANTI Festival International Prize for Live Art (El Khoury, 2017). Our composers have
 won the Royal Philharmonic Award (Higgins, 2016), Paul Mealor Award of the Welsh Music
 Guild (Dearden, 2017), National Flute Music Association Awards (Dearden, 2019), Ivors
 Composer Award (Higgins, 2019), and nominations for British Composer Awards (Santos, 2016;
 Higgins, 2015 and 2018).


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3a. We aim to generate a diverse range of research income, cultivating a mixed ecology of
 individual fellowships, collaborative projects, and challenge-led investigations. All staff are
 expected to bid for external income, regardless of their subdiscipline, employment status or
 career stage; practice-based researchers bid for artistic grants/commissions. Departmental and
 School research committees encourage grant applications by publicising calls and monitoring
 applications; departmental Research Leads mentor staff and their funding plans in regular
 research reviews, and draft bids are peer-reviewed at department and School level. Applicants
 for sabbaticals are required to seek external funding where appropriate for their projects. Our
 average rate of grant applications is one bid every two years per FTE staff member.
 In the census period, our HESA-reported research income has totalled £3,086,252. New awards
 have been gained totalling £1,496,738 from AHRC, £774,593 from the Leverhulme Trust, and
 £218,555 from the British Academy. Staff have gained over £806k for individual fellowships,
 including AHRC Leadership Fellowships (Baker, Harper-Scott), British Academy Mid-Career
 Fellowships (Berry, Rose) and Leverhulme Major Research Fellowships (Beckles Willson,
 Bowden, Johnson), enabling the completion of 5 monographs and 2 major practice-based
 projects. Our support for postdoctoral candidates in funding competitions has resulted in £544k
 of awards, including from the Leverhulme Trust and the EU Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions.
 We have gained UKRI funding for major collaborative projects that enable the co-creation of
 knowledge and impact with cultural organisations and non-HE partners. AHRC awards
 exceeding £932k have enabled research in our strategic research areas including
 inclusion/participation (Nicholson’s ‘Amateur Dramatics’ and ‘For Love or Money?’; Baker’s
 ‘Music for social impact’); global challenges (Blanco’s ‘Embodied performance practices in
 Colombia’); and heritage / archiving (Lease’s ‘Staging difficult pasts’ and ‘Sequins, self and
 struggle’; Rose’s ‘Big Data history of music’). Parker-Starbuck is Co-I on the £5.2m AHRC grant
 StoryFutures (administered by Media Arts and omitted from REF4b). We have diversified our
 sources of income via £148k of awards from organisations including the Newton Fund and
 Daiwa Anglo-Japanese Foundation (Cohen on Indonesian theatre; Thorpe’s Emily: An English-
 language Noh), Heritage Lottery Fund (Gilbert on indigenous heritage in London), American
 Council of Learned Societies (Stobart on cultural heritage), Age Exchange and National Theatre
 (Nicholson on participatory drama).
 Our development of practice-based research has led to the award of over £465k not listed in
 the HESA return. These grants for creative projects include over £200k in commissions for our
 composers (including awards from the BBC, Welsh National Opera, and the PRS) and over
 £265k for performance projects by Dullea and Kanga (including grants from the Arts Councils of
 England and Ireland, Creative Ireland, and Culture Ireland). Also omitted from HESA returns is
 over £280k for research training, including £127k from the Swedish Agency for International Co-


                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Operation in Higher Education (see 2d); £62k for AHRC CDA with British Library; £70k of private
 donations for studentships; £22k for Erasmus exchanges by PGRs and staff.

 3b. Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact has benefitted from
 investment in 3 new posts in Research & Innovation: Impact Manager, Research Development
 Manager specialising in arts/humanities, and Global Challenges Strategy Manager. These have
 enabled us to tap into new streams of funding and develop impact strategies that respond to
 new external priorities. In addition to workshops publicising appropriate schemes, R&I’s tailored
 support on specific applications has led to success such as Blanco’s application for the AHRC
 Newton Fund. RHUL’s Research Strategy Fund provides seed funding of up to £5k to initiate
 larger projects; colleagues in our unit have won over £40k of RSF funding, leading to grant
 applications and impact work by Beckles Willson, Brown, Cohen, Cox, Deeming, Dullea, Gilbert,
 Lease, Rebellato, Summers and Whiteman.

 Mechanisms for managing research have been revitalised during the census period. Until 2019,
 research in Drama and Music was led by departmental Directors of Research and departmental
 Research Committees with their own budgets, reporting to an Associate Dean for Research in
 the Arts Faculty. Formation of the PDA School has created a new infrastructure designed for
 agility, interdisciplinarity and sustainability. Departmental Research Leads work with the School
 Director of Research & Knowledge Exchange (Rose co-director), who ensures alignment with
 School and college strategies, and that we make full use of School- and college-level support.

 3c. Improvements in operational and scholarly infrastructure have made progress towards
 equipping Drama and Music with state-of-the-art facilities for research. The award-winning Caryl
 Churchill Theatre opened in 2013, with a subsequent upgrade of a rehearsal studio into a
 dedicated dance space. The redeveloped Boilerhouse Auditorium (2014) is the first space on
 campus acoustically tailored for musical performance, and has been used for practice-based
 projects by Bowden, Dullea and Kanga. Both venues are fully accessible, helping deliver our
 commitment to inclusion.

 As part of a long-term plan for a Creative Quarter on campus encompassing the PDA School, a
 new Eastern Gateway Building for Music and Media Arts has been designed by the architects
 Feilden Clegg Bradley. The specification supports our strategic research goals including
 dedicated venues for practice-based research, recording studios and digital labs. The Eastern
 Gateway project will relocate the Noh Theatre into Drama’s estate, to centralise its performance
 facilities and to support the Centre for Asian Theatre and Dance. Progress on these projects will
 resume after the temporary suspension of major estate works owing to Covid-19.
 Capital investment on relevant equipment exceeds £244K, including £114K on music
 technology upgrades, £58K on a Steinway Model 9 grand piano for practice-based work by
 Dullea and Kanga, £15K for a sprung dance floor, and £38K on media equipment for Drama
 research. A new 0.3fte post of Music studio technician has increased the technical support team
 in Drama and Music to 5.1fte.
 Drama and Music have benefitted from wider developments on RHUL’s campus, including:
    ●   The refurbishment of RHUL’s central London base at 11 Bedford Square, in conjunction
        with investment in dedicated RHUL spaces at Senate House, has facilitated research
        meetings, PGR supervisions/vivas, and the organisation of conferences (often in
        collaboration with other HEIs). Events here boost the influence and impact of our
        research, for instance book launches, Platform research events, and public debates (e.g.
        on Baker’s El Sistema research).
    ●   The Emily Wilding Davison Library (£57.5m) has centralised all relevant materials for
        Drama and Music, in climate-controlled conditions suitable for research collections
        including the Anselm Hughes library of medieval music and Drama archives (Gay
        Sweatshop, Half Moon, Roy Waters). Unlike previous library locations, the Davison
        building is fully accessible for those with mobility requirements; it has dedicated spaces
        for PGR work individually or in groups, and exhibition space for public engagement.

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our budget for library provision for our disciplines, including specialist digital resources, totals
 £42k per annum. We have invested in new digital resources including Digital Theatre+ and
 National Theatre Online, while maintaining other key resources such as Box of Broadcasts,
 Drama Online, Naxos Music Library and Oxford Music Online, plus specialist software such as
 Sibelius. Our departments benefit from extensive investment in digital resources for the wider
 humanities including reference databases, e-books, e-journals and digitised newspapers. A
 designated Information Consultant oversees library provision for the PDA School, ensuring key
 research needs are met. To complement RHUL’s library, all staff and PGR students are
 members of Senate House Library with its specialist research materials, and we sit on relevant
 Senate House Library working groups.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4a. We build collaborations, networks and partnerships with other universities and the
 creative industries, principally via our research centres. The Centre for Contemporary British
 Theatre and Centre for Asian Theatre and Dance develop collaborations with HEIs and industry
 practitioners (e.g. Rob Drummond), leading to projects such as the Contemporary Playwriting
 Network (with Greenwich, Lincoln and Loughborough), research events (such as ‘(Re)imagining
 Nora’ in conjunction with the Young Vic’s adaptation of Ibsen’s A Doll’s House), and symposia
 co-funded by institutions such as CERLIS Paris.
 Under our leadership, the Institute for Musical Research has taken a foremost role in
 facilitating collaborations across the sector and nurturing new paradigms for research. Since
 2015 it has organised 39 conferences, in collaboration with 24 HEIs in the UK and 5 overseas;
 run 2 seminar series, in collaboration with Cambridge and Guildhall; and hosted 2 Distinguished
 Lecture Series, developing new approaches to relational musicology and musical citizenship. To
 support researchers in the crucial stage after the PhD, the IMR has granted 27 early career
 fellowships, offering each ECR an institutional affiliation, and funds and support for organising a
 conference. These fellowships have been mentored by senior academics at 12 UK universities,
 supporting work in fields such as diasporic sounds and music/disability studies. Experience
 gained in these fellowships has enabled ECRs to gain permanent academic posts including at
 Leeds College of Music, Northumbria and Open University.
 Strategic use of research funding supports collaborations including co-authored publications.
 Stobart’s funds from the American Council of Learned Societies have supported 6 publications
 with anthropologist Michelle Bigenho (Colgate University). Nicholson’s AHRC grants on amateur
 theatre led to publications with Nadine Holdsworth (Warwick) and Jane Milling (Exeter),
 including the prizewinning Ecologies of Amateur Theatre (see 4e), a special issue of
 Contemporary Theatre Review, and a report on Amateur Theatre Research. Ramnarine’s role
 as co-investigator in the AHRC Centre for Musical Performance as Creative Practice led to her
 Global Perspectives on Orchestras. Further collaborative relationships have led to 16 co-edited
 or co-authored books with colleagues at universities including City, Exeter, Goldsmiths,
 Loughborough, Minnesota, Oslo, Oxford, Queen Mary and South Carolina. We boost
 international collaborations through funded exchanges (e.g. DAAD, Erasmus), hosting visiting
 researchers from Austria, China, Germany, Indonesia and Sweden to enable training and
 collaborative projects.
 4b. We build partnerships with cultural organisations, key research users and audiences to
 co-create knowledge and develop impact. Nicholson served on the steering group that founded
 Tate Exchange in 2016, a partnership creating more inclusive and participatory environments
 for art. Drawing on Guy’s expertise in intersections between performance and visual culture,
 Drama staff (including Worth) have led RHUL’s annual contributions that explore and showcase
 new research in a collaborative, interactive environment. Drama has sustained its relationship
 with the National Theatre via practice-based work (Overend, The Majority), research into
 participatory performance (Nicholson), and public engagement activities (Goddard, Megson,
 Rebellato). RHUL Strategic Knowledge Exchange funds (£45k) have supported new
 partnerships with key research users, including Mancewicz’s work with theatre practitioners on
 VR, and Rose’s work with RISM UK and regional archives on rediscovering music heritage.

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Music has renewed its partnership with the British Library with AHRC projects including A Big
 Data History of Music and a CDA studentship. This relationship has benefited our research
 environment with internships for PGR students, funded postdocs, mini-exhibitions related to staff
 and student research (Rose, Ritzema), study days, and a platform for online articles. Our
 practice-based researchers develop relationships with ensembles and venues that commission
 or perform their work, including BBC National Orchestra of Wales (Bowden), London Sinfonietta
 (Fernando), Wigmore Hall (Grime) and Shanghai Conservatory (Lock),.
 Our work with arts producers and performers is shaping their professional practices and
 attitudes towards repertory. Megson’s and Rebellato’s reports on theatre repertory and
 spectatorship highlighted the need for gender and regional diversity, influencing the choice of
 plays and development of audiences in venues nationwide. Reimers’s report with the Equity
 Women’s Committee (‘Making an Appearance’) is provoking public debate (including in UK
 Parliament, March 2020) about body image and aesthetic labour in the theatre industry.
 Scholarly editing by Brown, Deeming and Rose enriches the repertory of musical ensembles
 with previously unavailable music (including early music and film scores), and the scholarly
 expertise and consultancy of Berry, Downes and Johnson enhances the concert programming
 by venues and ensembles (e.g. Southbank, Philharmonia Orchestra).
 Our public engagement and media work build pathways to impact and enhance public
 understanding. Staff regularly appear on BBC TV and radio, including the Proms; we write for
 national media (e.g. Guardian); and we plan and write BBC programmes (Rebellato, Rose,
 Summers). We work with arts venues and broadcasters to provide pre-concert/pre-show talks,
 platform events, courses, and programme notes/essays. These activities enhance the
 experiences of audiences at venues including the Bush Theatre, Chichester Festival Theatre,
 Edinburgh International Festival, Glyndebourne Festival Opera, Manchester Royal Exchange,
 National Theatre, Royal Opera House, RSC, Salzburg Festival, V&A Museum, Wigmore Hall.

 4c. We engage with the central concerns of diverse communities and groups, including
 those with protected characteristics. Our research draws on and inspires activism for racial and
 gender inclusivity, for instance Goddard on Black British playwrights and directors, Thorpe on
 casting British East Asian actors, Schafer on women’s voices in drama history, and Fernando
 and Whiteman on gender inclusivity in contemporary composition. Morcom’s work on gender
 and Indian dance engaged with changing attitudes to LGBTQI+ communities in the Indian
 diaspora, through workshops and curated performances (Indian Summer Festival, Leicester;
 BBC Asian Network; Southbank performances). Ramnarine’s investigation of Caribbean
 diasporas gave voice to historic migrants and Black and Global Majority audiences in events
 marking the Windrush 70th Anniversary and Indenture Abolition Centenary, 2018. PGR projects
 reaching diverse communities include El Khoury on live art and the Arab uprisings, and
 Summerskill’s verbatim plays on LGBTQI+ asylum seekers and refugees.
 We use participatory methods to engage audiences who are culturally or socially
 disenfranchised through race, age, socio-economic status or geography. Staff and PGR
 composers work with London Music Masters, a charity reaching over 2,000 children otherwise
 unable to engage with classical music. Bowden premiered Five Memos with LMM, using it in
 their educational workshops in disadvantaged schools in south London. Higgins’s Tänze used a
 choir of 70 LMM children, giving them the opportunity to perform with the London Philharmonic
 and for their families to attend rehearsals and concerts. Kanga’s Wikipiano is expanding
 participation in contemporary music through its crowd-sourced score. Our projects in
 participatory arts engage amateur theatre groups in non-metropolitan spaces, and care home
 residents including people living with dementia (Nicholson); similar approaches enhance the
 social integration of survivors of conflict and displacement (Beckles Willson with refugees in
 Sicily; Estrada-Fuentes with ex-combatants in Colombia).
 4d. We contribute to the sustainability of the discipline through collaborative initiatives,
 leadership positions in subject associations, and projects addressing national/international
 priorities. Our direction of the Institute of Musical Research has made a sector-leading

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 contribution to the sustainability of music studies by building partnerships and developing the
 next generation of researchers through 27 early career fellowships (see 4a). We take leading
 roles in organising collaborative seminar series in central London, including the London
 Theatre Seminar (co-convenor Lease) and the Latin American Music Seminar (convenor
 Stobart, with Institute for Latin American Studies).
 Drama and Music staff have organised (or co-organised) 108 conferences, including TaPRA
 2014, conferences in new fields (e.g. Ludomusicology annually since 2014), and themed
 symposia at venues including the British Library, Cologne University and Paris-Sorbonne. We
 shape and facilitate scholarly debates by taking leading roles in subject associations, including
 major initiatives such as Summers co-founding the Society of Sound and Music in Games.
 Blanco is president of the Dance Studies Association and Deeming chairs the Plainsong &
 Medieval Music Society. 7 Drama staff have co-convened working groups for TaPRA and IFTR
 (Goddard, Guy, Nicholson, Parker-Starbuck, Purkayastha, Rebellato, Worth) and Lease is on
 the committee for European Association for the Study of Theatre and Performance. Music staff
 serve on the committee of the British Forum for Ethnomusicology (Stobart, Tan) and are
 trustees/council members of the Society for Music Analysis (Harper-Scott), Bach Network
 (Rose) and RISM UK (Rose). Our composers serve on the British Section for the International
 Society for Contemporary Music (chair: Bowden; board member Fernando), and the board of the
 Huddersfield Contemporary Music Festival (Bowden).
 Our unit maintains online infrastructure for our disciplines including the Golden Pages list of
 music conferences (200,000 unique views per year) and various JISCMAIL lists (Harper-Scott,
 Summers). We use department funds to maintain the digital legacies of past funded projects,
 including the CHARM discography (Centre for History and Analysis of Recorded Music), and
 Hofmeister XIX. Data and digital content from our Early Music Online project have supplied the
 basis for 5 funded projects in UK HEIs including the AHRC Transforming Musicology project. In
 2020 we used Strategic Knowledge Exchange funds to build a new interface for the RISM UK
 database hosted by RHUL for the past 17 years.
 Our focus on national and international priorities as defined by UKRI is illustrated by our
 research clusters outlined in 1a above. Our response to UKRI’s concern with inequalities is
 shown through our work on social action through the arts (Baker’s AHRC projects and his work
 for Agrigento; Nicholson’s projects on participatory drama). Our research responds to immediate
 political events including #BlackLivesMatter (Goddard), Brexit (Megson, Rebellato), protests and
 borders as performance (Nield). Building on our long-standing expertise on race and
 decolonisation in the arts, we are leading debates about the decolonisation of our disciplines,
 notably with Tan’s symposia ‘Cultural imperialism and the new “yellow peril” in Western classical
 music’ and ‘Orchestrating isolation: musical interventions and inequality in the Covid-19 fallout’.
 Blanco, Estrada-Fuentes, Goddard and Purkayastha contributed to ‘Theatre studies too white’
 panels at London Theatre Seminar and TaPRA, and ‘White colleagues listen’ open letter.
 4e. Indicators of wider influence. We edit leading journals and book series, contributing to
 the development and dissemination of knowledge across our disciplines. During the census
 period we have edited Contemporary Theatre Review (Lease), Early Music (Deeming, Rose),
 Ethnomusicology Forum (Stobart, Tan), Music & Letters (Downes), Research in Drama
 Education (Nicholson), Theatre Journal (Parker-Starbuck), Twentieth-Century Music (Johnson)
 and Theatre, Dance and Performance Training (Worth). Summers is founding co-editor of
 Journal of Sound and Music in Games. In total, we have edited journal contributions by over
 1600 authors from 29 countries. We serve on the editorial/advisory boards of 25 journals, and
 referee for all major journals in our disciplines.
 We have shaped debates in emerging areas of our disciplines by guest-editing journal special
 issues including Cox on asylum and refugee theatre (Research in Drama Education), Lease on
 queer South African performance and activism (Safundi: Journal of South African and American
 Studies), Baker on El Sistema (Action, Criticism, and Theory for Music Education), and Thorpe
 on casting the RSC’s production of Orphan of Zhao (Contemporary Theatre Review). As editors
 of book series, Rebellato has overseen 27 books in Palgrave’s ‘Theatre &...’ series, and

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Deeming has overseen 10 volumes in Boydell’s Studies in Medieval & Renaissance Music.
 Harper-Scott has overseen 14 volumes for Cambridge UP’s ‘Music in Context’ and is editor of
 the revived Cambridge Music Handbooks with an increased focus on representation of Black
 and women composers, and pop, jazz and film.
 Staff have given 76 keynote lectures, 327 invited research lectures/seminars at universities
 worldwide, and 269 conference papers during the census period. We have examined 108 PhDs
 at UK universities including Birmingham, Cambridge, Essex, Goldsmiths, Glasgow, King’s,
 Leeds, Newcastle, Oxford, Sheffield, Queen Mary, St Andrews and SOAS, and 29 at overseas
 institutions including Cape Town, Ghent, Melbourne, Monash, Oslo, Paris-Sorbonne, Sydney
 and Toronto. We have served as external assessors for 73 appointment/promotion/tenure
 panels worldwide.
 Staff referee for all major academic presses including the university presses of Amsterdam,
 California, Cambridge, Chicago, Illinois, Iowa, Manchester, Michigan, Northwestern, Ohio,
 Oxford and Toronto; plus Boydell & Brewer, Methuen Drama, Palgrave, and Routledge. We
 contribute to major grants committees, including the AHRC Peer Review College (8 staff, 25%
 of our unit) and British Academy (Johnson). International esteem is shown by our reviewing work
 for research councils in Australia, Austria, Canada, Chile, Czech Republic, Finland, Germany
 and Poland (Baker, Berry. Gilbert, Lease, Parker-Starbuck, Ramnarine, Rose), and our service
 on prize committees in USA and Europe (Brown, Morcom). Lock has judged Ivor Novello
 Awards and BAFTAs, and Lease has served as jury member at Belgrade International Theatre
 Festival. We serve in research quality assessments including REF2014 (Stobart) and REF2021
 (subpanellist: Rose; assessor: Whiteman; specialist advisor: Purkayastha).
 Prizes show how our staff have achieved recognition at all stages, from early career
 researchers (Cenciarelli: Westrup Prize, 2014; MacGregor: RMA Jerome Roche Prize, 2019) to
 our professoriate (Nicholson: TaPRA David Bradby prize 2019 for Ecologies of Amateur
 Theatre). Morcom’s Illicit Worlds of Indian Dance won the Society of Ethnomusicology’s Marcia
 Herndon Prize and Alan Merriam Prize for ‘most distinguished monograph’, 2014. Purkayastha’s
 Indian Modern Dance won the Outstanding Publication Award from the Congress on Research
 in Dance (2015) and the de la Torre Bueno Prize for best book in Dance Studies (2015); the
 latter prize was also won by Blanco in 2016 for She is Cuba. Rose’s Big Data History of Music
 project won the Vladimir Fédorov Award of the International Association of Music Libraries
 (2016). We have been shortlisted for Royal Philharmonic Society Awards (Johnson, 2016;
 Dullea, 2016), and TaPRA prizes (Goddard, Guy and Nicholson, 2017).
 Our practice-based researchers have been recognised by British Composer Award (Bowden,
 2016); Welsh Music Guild Glanville Jones Award (Bowden, 2015); Scottish Award for New
 Music (Grime, 2015); BBC Audio Drama Award (best adaptation, Rebellato’s Zola series, 2017);
 and Gramophone Award nomination (Contemporary category: Grime, 2015).
 Gilbert’s Humboldt Research Prize (2016) led to a fellowship at the Rachel Carson Centre for
 Environment and Society in Munich. Other fellowships include Johnson’s election as a Fellow
 of the British Academy (2017), Megson’s Invited Fellowship of the Royal Society of Arts, 9
 visiting fellowships/professorships at universities including Berlin, Cologne, Hyderabad, Paris-
 Sorbonne, Tokyo and Yale, and 5 composer fellowships including at the Macdowell Colony and
 Visby Centre. These indicators of esteem recognise the range of our critical and creative
 research, and form a foundation for our ambition to continue to shape our disciplines.




                                                                                           Page 16
