Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Birmingham

 Unit of Assessment: UOA19 Politics and International Studies

 Section 1: Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1. Context

 The Politics and International Studies Unit of Assessment (UoA) at Birmingham is located within
 the University’s School of Government, and covers the Department of Political Science and
 International Studies (POLSIS) and the Institute of Local Government Studies (INLOGOV).
 POLSIS and INLOGOV benefit from cross-university collaborations as well as their common
 location within the School (where the inter-disciplinary theme of governance from the local to the
 global is emphasised) and the wider College of Social Sciences (CoSS). We have a reputation for
 world-leading research on all levels of government and society. Our work has theoretical and
 methodological depth, engages with government and non-governmental stakeholders at the local,
 national and international levels and is disseminated widely across academic and public spheres.
 It is facilitated by a diverse portfolio of external funding and an inclusive and empowering research
 culture.

 1.2. Research and impact strategies

 In 2014, we identified strengths in four research areas that would orientate the UoA’s future
 evolution: security and conflict studies, governance and the state, state-building and development,
 and political theory. The strategic aims of the UoA have been to pursue excellence in these four
 areas, achieve higher levels of impact, and to consolidate our work where this is beneficial.
 In the period 2014 – 2020, our research and impact strategy has been premised on:
      delivering research that is academically rigorous and publicly relevant. That marriage of
         aims has been achieved by diversifying our sources of research funding, focusing on
         impact and engagement tailored to contemporary policy challenges, and cultivating
         relationships with local, national and international partners, and research users;
      fostering a research environment that nurtures talent through targeted support to Early
         Career Researchers (ECRs), significant investment in new permanent staff and a
         commitment to an inclusive research culture (evident, for instance, in the School’s
         achievement of the Bronze Athena Swan Award in 2019);
      shaping and sustaining the discipline of Political Science and International Studies through
         positions of academic leadership as part of journals, book series and professional
         associations.

 Our research and impact strategy is aimed at influencing public policy and shaping public debate.
 As part of a civic university, we have developed important and impactful local and regional
 relationships, while at the same time strengthening our global profile and reach. We work with
 policy practitioners in local authorities, the UK government and Parliament; with community
 activists from Birmingham, Manchester and Glasgow to Chicago, Melbourne, Delhi and Tunis;
 with think tanks and advocacy groups; and with international civil servants and officials notably in
 the European Union (EU), the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) and the Organisation for
 Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE).We have registered major strides in these regards.
 Our work on Development has progressed to the point that it has allowed the International
 Development Department (IDD) to submit separately to REF2021 under UoA22 (in 2014 it was

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 returned jointly with INLOGOV and POLSIS to sub-panel 21). Remaining strengths shape the
 priority themes of our research strategy (see Section 1.4) and are the basis of a focused
 reorganisation that has occurred within the assessment period (with the disciplines of Sociology
 and European Studies being relocated to other parts of the University).

 The School of Government is thus home to three departments (IDD, INLOGOV and POLSIS) and
 two REF21 submissions (to UoAs 19 and 22). As a School in which staff collaborate closely across
 research, doctoral supervision, professional development and teaching, we have developed a
 common approach to impact. This is reflected in our choice of Impact Case Studies. Two case
 study leads – Cheeseman and Lemay-Hébert are referred to in REF1, REF2 and REF5b as within
 UoA22, but both have developed case studies appropriate thematically to UoA19. The overlap of
 work between the two UoAs is evident also in joint publications (see, for instance, Fontana et al),
 PhD supervision and regional collaboration (Haughton in POLSIS and Cheeseman in IDD are both
 convenors of the Research Centre for the Study of Parties and Democracy – a joint initiative of
 the Universities of Birmingham and Nottingham).

 We elaborate further upon the outcomes of our strategy below. In summary, the excellence of our
 work can be seen in how it has been received by our peers and how it has shaped academic and
 public debate. Wheeler’s book Trusting Enemies: Interpersonal Relationships in International
 Relations was the subject of a special forum in International Affairs 94(6), 2018; Albertazzi’s co-
 authored book Populists in Power was described in Political Studies Review as ‘a pioneering […]
 contribution to our understanding of populism.’ Finlay’s Terrorism and the Right to Resist was
 described in the journal Ethics as ‘a much needed and outstanding contribution to the ethics of
 war.’ Siniver’s biography of Abba Eban was reviewed in The Guardian and The New York Times
 and was described in Shofar: An Interdisciplinary Journal of Jewish Studies as a ‘vitally important
 contribution to the literature on US-Israel relations and Israeli history in general.’ Reviewed in the
 Chief of the Air Staff’s Reading List (2019-202), Patrick Porter’s Blunder: Britain’s War in Iraq was
 described as ‘both breathtaking and groundbreaking.’ Floyd’s Morality of Security was referred to
 in Perspectives on Politics as ‘an important and valuable contribution’ on which political scientists
 should be ‘thinking and arguing with […] for a long time to come.’

 REF 2 indicates the academic depth and the quality of our work. There we record a total of 113
 outputs produced by 49 Category A staff. 70 per cent of our outputs returned are drawn from peer-
 reviewed refereed journals and a further 28 per cent are monographs.

 The impact of our research is exemplified by the range of external collaborations and beneficiaries
 highlighted in sections 4.1 and 4.2. We have extended and deepened our engagement with
 stakeholders in UK government, with international organisations, and with NGOs and advocacy
 groups. We have also been active in shaping public opinion through our extensive engagement
 with print, visual and social media on issues of topical concern.

 1.3. Research structures
 The vitality and sustainability of our research derives from supportive structures of professional
 development that foster creativity, offer rapid and constructive criticism, and establish shared



                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 expectations. These structures also help to ‘incubate’ research in a way that promotes excellence,
 nurtures talent and enhances impact.

 A School Research Committee is responsible for planning and reviewing research and its impact
 and for overseeing staff mentoring. That body also disburses an annual research budget –
 supplemented, in turn, by funds held at the College level and by University initiatives such as the
 ESRC Impact Accelerator Account, and the University’s Institute for Global Innovation and Institute
 of Advanced Studies (see REF5a 2.3). In addition, departments hold their own funds to facilitate
 conference attendance, workshop hosting and travel for fieldwork.

 Impact specifically is supported through the leadership and mentoring of a School Impact Lead,
 through recognition of impact activity in departmental workload allocation models and through
 workshops at both School and College level. Dedicated internal income streams exist to promote
 impact activities (see Section 3.1) and Professional Services colleagues also provide essential
 support (see Section 3.2).

 POLSIS is home to nine specialist research groups. It also hosts the Centre for Russian, European
 and Eurasian Studies (CREES) and the Institute for Conflict, Cooperation and Security (ICCS).
 The former, founded in 1963, is made up of affiliated staff across the University and supports,
 through seminars and an annual conference, an international network of scholars and practitioners
 with an interest in the politics, economics and international relations of the former communist
 countries. The ICCS, led by Wheeler (2012 – 2019) and Capelos (2019 – present) is an inter-
 disciplinary endeavour that involves scholars from the UoA as well as from the Departments and
 Schools of International Development (UoA22), Theology and Religion (UoA31), Philosophy
 (UoA30), Psychology (UoA4), Business (UoA17), and Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences
 (UoA7). ICCS hosts four research groups – on Trust, International Political Psychology, Political
 Settlements and Drones. It has developed a network of practitioners drawn from the European
 Leadership Network, the British American Security Information Council (BASIC), and the All-Party
 Parliamentary Group on Drones – as well as active and retired officials from the UK Foreign,
 Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO), Ministry of Defence (MoD) and NATO. Its
 Honorary Professors include General David Petraeus (former Director of the US Central
 Intelligence Agency) and Paul Schulte (former Head of the UK Post-Conflict Reconstruction Unit).

 INLOGOV, founded in 1964, is a leading academic centre for teaching and research on local
 governance and strategic public management. Its work addresses issues of democracy,
 leadership, participation, policymaking and service delivery. INLOGOV’s mission is to connect
 research and policy practice. It has a core of permanent academics complemented by a large
 number of Associates, Honorary and Visiting Staff, many of whom have a long track record of
 service in local government and consultancy. INLOGOV is led by Jason Lowther, formerly Head
 of Policy and Programmes in the West Midlands Combined Authority and Assistant Director
 (Strategy) in Birmingham City Council. INLOGOV has played a central role in the CoSS Public
 Service Academy (PSA). Mangan, the former Director of INLOGOV, was the PSA Director from
 January 2017 to October 2019.




                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Departmental and School structures are supplemented by support at both College and University
 levels (see Section 3.2).

 1.4. Thematic priorities during the assessment period
 With Development Studies returned separately and political (and international) theory
 underpinning much of our research – the UoA has attached greatest significance to two of the four
 thematic areas of research identified in 2014:

    1. Security and conflict studies. Research submitted to REF 2014 and RAE2008 was
       indicative of a strong regional orientation that encompassed US and UK external relations,
       the European neighbourhood and the former Soviet space, the Middle East and North
       Africa, along with China, Japan and the Asia-Pacific region. These regional specialisms
       have continued, supplemented in turn by research centred on the EU, NATO, the OSCE
       and other institutions of security governance. A convergence of these regional and
       institutional strands characterises much of our work. For instance, Averre and Connolly’s
       work on Russian national security and defence economics is framed by a concern with
       international law and transnational economic regulation; Wolczuk and Wolff have
       published several refereed articles and project reports (sponsored by the EU and OSCE)
       on conflict-mediation efforts in Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine. Wolczuk is also the lead of
       one our Impact Case Studies.

        We have added to these regional and institutional dimensions work that is more explicitly
        theoretical and conceptual (Bloom on statelessness; Darwich on threat perceptions in the
        Middle East; Floyd, Topgyal and Webber on securitization; Gaskarth on international
        society and ethics; Morefield on imperialism; Porter on the power of habit; Siniver on tacit
        security regimes; Vieira on ontological security; Wheeler and Capelos on trust) and which
        utilizes novel methods of quantitative and comparative analysis (Neudorfer, Wolff and
        Yakinthou on power-sharing and conflict resolution; Tsourapas on migration
        interdependence).

        The ICCS has helped bring together our work on security. It has seen the affiliation of three
        Birmingham Fellows (see REF5a, 3.4.1. for more details of this scheme); strong
        recruitment to its PhD programme (with 15 current registered students); successful grant
        capture; the development of an international research network; and the provision of expert
        advice on conflict mediation, nuclear proliferation and the nefarious use of drones.

        More widely, staff recruited during the assessment period have strengthened the security
        theme. As well as Bloom, Darwich, Neudorfer and Porter (already noted), other
        appointments include Chacha (conflict management in Africa) and Kyris (contested
        sovereignty).

    2. Governance and democracy. Our work under this theme has a comparative focus and
       considers governance challenges at the global, national, regional and local levels. Global
       governance intersects with the security theme above. Here, in addition, the unit has worked
       with the IGI, founded in 2018 to inspire, support and deliver multi- and inter-disciplinary

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        research on pressing global challenges (see REF5a, 2.3.3.). INLOGOV’s Lowndes leads
        IGI’s cross-University research stream on resilient cities, bringing together staff from the
        UoA with those in Psychology, Education, Economics, Civil Engineering, Environmental
        Sciences and Chemical Engineering. The UoA has also undertaken innovative work on
        international political economy (Bailey on austerity and neo-liberalism; Macartney on
        banking crises; Smith on sexuality and global capitalism). At the national level, we have
        strengthened our work on British and comparative political behaviour and institutions
        through the appointment of Cutts and Lindstädt. The work of Cutts on comparative
        populism and Euro-scepticism is complemented by that of Capelos and of Albertazzi, the
        latter being Principal Investigator of a three-year ESRC project on mass party politics. At
        the local and regional levels, INLOGOV has seen three new permanent appointments
        (Bartels, Lowndes and Reardon). It has extended its historical focus on local participation
        and accountability to embrace greater comparative analysis. This includes Durose’s work
        on urban co-production and Reardon’s project on Indian smart cities (both funded by the
        ESRC’s Urban Transformations Programme), Lowndes’ British Academy project on local
        government responses to Syrian refugees in Turkey; and Durose’s involvement in the
        Smart Urban Intermediaries Project funded by JPI Urban Europe.


 1.5. Interdisciplinary research
 Interdisciplinarity informs investment, recruitment, doctoral supervision, research collaboration
 and grant applications within the UoA. At an individual-research level, we promote
 interdisciplinarity through methodological and theoretical innovation. This includes peer-reviewed
 work on causality in the Social Sciences (Durose), Q methodology (Jeffares), queer theory
 (Smith), action research (Bartels) and comparative and historical political thought (Morefield,
 Shorten).

 Our contribution to the wider University is also evident in the recent appointment of a Professor of
 Practice in INLOGOV, Christopher Pietroni, to lead the Birmingham Leadership Institute – a body
 which connects the Developmental Leadership Programme in IDD, the Educational Leadership
 Academy in the School of Education, and the NHS Leadership Academy in the School of Social
 Policy. The Leadership Institute has worked with the West Midlands Combined Authority over the
 course of the COVID-19 pandemic. Our Impact Case Study on the 21st Century Public Servant
 has been developed through a close collaboration between INLOGOV and the Health Services
 Management Centre in the School of Social Policy.

 Reflecting its disciplinary reach, our work has been published in outlets across the Social Sciences
 and beyond: in African Studies Quarterly (Chacha) British Journal of Sociology (Smith), Cold War
 History (Shorten), Critical Social Policy (Lowndes), Evaluation (Jeffares), Humanity and Society
 (Capelos), Journal of Happiness Studies (Reardon), Nature (Durose), Qualitative Research
 (Bartels), Political Psychology (Capelos), Religion, State and Society (Kaneff), and Urban Studies
 (Bartels).

 To promote interdisciplinarity in the next generation of scholars, we are committed to collaborative
 arrangements for doctoral training. Doctoral co-supervision with staff outside the unit accounts for


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 almost one fifth of the cohort of doctoral students (20 of 108, as of 2019). The UoA is a member
 of the ESRC Midlands Doctoral Training Partnership and leads on two of Birmingham’s DTP
 pathways: Politics and International Studies, and (European) Area Studies.

 1.6. Open research
 To expand our international reputation and work at the intersection of research and policy, we
 have accessed University and College resources to ensure that as many research outputs and
 underpinning datasets as possible are publicly available. Author-accepted manuscript versions of
 all journal articles are uploaded to the University’s CRIS system (Pure), within three months of
 publication and made publicly available on the University Research Portal. To support Open
 Access publications linked to UKRI-funded research, colleagues have benefitted from central
 University support. In addition, the College has underwritten its own parallel scheme to fund Gold
 Open Access publications, with the aim that all staff and PhD students can access Open Access
 funding, regardless of whether they have UKRI support. To date, twenty-three staff members have
 taken up this opportunity.

 Staff have also produced a number of open-access databases and technical resources. These
 include:

 (i) a cross-national measure of electoral competitiveness (Lindstädt) published in Political
 Analysis and available from Harvard Dataverse (downloaded over 3,000 times);

 (ii) a report on nuclear responsibilities by Wheeler in preparation in July 2020 as part of the
 collaboration between the ICCS and BASIC (see Section 1.3) – the report includes the ‘Nuclear
 Responsibilities Method’, which was published on the BASIC website outside the assessment
 period in November 2020;

 (iii) the Political Agreements in Internal Conflicts (PAIC) dataset comprised of 91 variables applied
 to 286 political agreements between 1989 and 2016; this was accepted for publication in June
 2020 and was published as Open Access (in Conflict Management and Peace Science) just
 outside the assessment period, in late August 2020.

 The UoA has also given support to the dissemination of work beyond the academy. An article by
 Wolff in Post-Soviet Affairs, co-authored with an academic and activist from Ukraine, received
 Gold-OA funding and was circulated to stakeholder communities with accompanying op-eds in the
 Washington Post ‘Monkey Cage’, the Focus Ukraine blog of the Kennan Institute, and The
 Conversation. As of January 2021, the article was the third most-read piece on the journal’s
 website with 11,364 reads (a notable achievement given the article was published in 2018 in a
 journal that dates back to 1992). An article by Porter in International Security received Gold-OA
 funding and was publicised through open-source articles in The Conversation, War on the Rocks
 and an interview on YouTube sponsored by the Harvard Belfer Centre. It was the ‘most read’
 article between May 2018 and February 2019, downloaded 9,438 times in that period.

 1.7. Research integrity



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our research conforms to the highest professional standards. Staff and doctoral students receive
 training based on the UK Concordant to Support Research Integrity and peer review of proposals
 and projects. Procedures for dealing with cases of misconduct are detailed in the University’s
 Code of Conduct for Research. All new research projects, including funded research, must go
 through a rigorous ethical review process facilitated by the University’s Humanities and Social
 Sciences Ethics Review Committee, on which 14 members of the unit have served since 2014.
 The University is a signatory of the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA),
 which promotes fair and robust approaches to research assessment.

 Unit staff have advanced debates on research integrity in the academy more broadly. An
 innovative example is Durose’s work on co-production. Durose was Co-I on two ESRC funded
 projects (Jam and Justice: Co-Producing Urban Governance for Social Innovation) which brought
 together an Action Research Collective of academics, local political actors and citizens in Greater
 Manchester to generate and test ideas on effective governance while at the same time connecting
 with politically marginalized groups. A special issue of Nature (4 October 2018) dedicated to co-
 produced research contained an article with Durose as lead author that argued ‘relevance,
 credibility and legitimacy’ should be given greater prominence in the metrics of research output.

 1.8. Future research strategy

 The key themes of security and conflict studies and governance and democracy are now well-
 embedded in the UoA. We will build on our existing strengths and successes by:

        broadening our areas of strength through a focus on accountability, representation and
         legitimacy. The COVID-19 pandemic has elevated these themes as governments across
         the world face multiple challenges of socio-economic repair, political stabilisation and
         international collaboration. Here, we are already well-placed to influence debates and
         practice given our work on populism, public service delivery, conflict management and
         political settlements;

        creating opportunity through investment in early career scholars, using the existing
         Birmingham Fellows’ scheme to advance areas of University investment – for instance, on
         political leadership, linked to the University’s new Leadership Institute directed by
         Christopher Pietroni in INLOGOV; and data science, linked to the University’s membership
         of the Alan Turing Institute;

        further promoting equality and diversity. Recognising our advances in gender equality, the
         School (see Section 1.2) was awarded an Athena Swan Bronze Award in 2019. The School
         also has featured in the University’s successful application for a Race Equality Charter
         Bronze Award in 2019. We will build on progress towards gender equality and will apply
         for an Athena Swan Silver Award. We will extend measures to other protected
         characteristics, in line with the University’s 2019 Race Equality Charter Bronze Award. And
         we will build on the successful LGBTQ+ network, which members of the unit were active
         in developing (see Section 2.3);

        engaging with external partners at all levels of government as an integrated part of our
         research activity, working with local and regional authorities, government departments,
         the UK parliament and international organisations including the EU and NATO;


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


        deepening cross-sectoral research and impact collaboration by working with the
         University’s Health Services Management Centre and Data Science Institute;

        going further on Open Research by embedding it into research practices and helping staff
         reach wider audiences through open-access publication and social media platforms;

        strengthening internationalisation by deepening links to universities in Amsterdam, Delhi
         Melbourne and others in the Universitas 21 consortium (REF5a, 2.1.8.).

 The positive trajectory of our work is already clear. Research completed in the period will result in
 a series of major publications in 2021 (accepted and in print). This includes two pieces in the
 European Journal of International Relations (Tsourapas and Wheeler) as well as articles in
 Contemporary Italian Politics (Albertazzi), International Studies Review (Tsourapas), Journal of
 International Relations and Development (Vieira), Mediterranean Politics (Darwich), Security
 Studies (Porter) and Social Movement Studies (Galpin). A number of single-authored monographs
 are also due to be published in 2021 – by Albertazzi, Bloom, Jeffares, Morefield, Tsourapas and
 Webber.


 Section 2: People
 2.1. Staffing strategy and staff development

 POLSIS and INLOGOV recruit and support staff in a way that fosters the capacity and capability
 necessary to deliver excellent research, impact and engagement. Success here is evident in our
 research staffing headcount: the number of Category A staff submitted to the unit in REF2021 is
 49 (1.3 FTE higher than we submitted to REF2014, despite the separate submission of IDD to
 UoA22).

 In the assessment period, we have made four appointments at professorial level (Cutts, Lindstädt,
 Lowndes, Porter), and thirteen at Reader/Senior Lecturer/Lecturer level (Bartels, Bloom, Capelos,
 Chacha, Darwich, Galpin, Kyris, Morefield, Reardon, Topgyal, Tsourapas, Wenman, Zartaloudis).
 We have also made three appointments to the Birmingham Fellows scheme (Floyd, Neudorfer,
 Yakinthou), and have won two Leverhulme postdoctoral fellowships (Kemoklidze, Kyris), and a
 Leverhulme early career fellowship (Feltrin). These appointments have strengthened our key
 research areas. Birmingham Fellows as well as Darwich, Porter and Topgyal have added to the
 Security theme; Cutts, Lindstädt and Lowndes have been instrumental in developing the
 Governance and Democracy theme (see pp.4-5).

 2.1.1. Support for early career researchers (ECRs)
 Given the competing demands on academics, protecting the time and space necessary to
 concentrate on research is critical. For ECRs we seek to provide a supportive environment of
 workload management, financial support and mentoring. A probation scheme covers the first three
 years of permanent appointments. This entails the elaboration of a probationary development plan
 and reduced teaching and administrative duties. Further, our system of support via the ECARS
 (Early Career and Research Staff) network (REF5a, 3.3.) utilises a number of measures to support
 staff: induction, representation, networking, training and development, project support and
 mentoring. Every new member of staff is assigned a research mentor. Representation takes place


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 via an ECR representative on the School Research Committee and an ECARS Committee that
 meets monthly. Networking proceeds via a monthly ECARS event each term. Training and
 development are organised through the Postgraduate Certificate in Advanced Methods and Skills
 (PGCARMS), career development modules (e.g., ‘Developing as an Academic Team Leader’), as
 well as mentoring by experienced staff. To celebrate academic achievement, the School
 introduced Research Prizes in 2018, which included a prize for Outstanding Early Career
 Achievement.

 The University’s competitive Birmingham Fellows scheme (REF5a 3.4.1), meanwhile, provides
 five years of protected time for research with an expectation that the recipients will obtain positions
 of research leadership at the end of this period. Floyd joined POLSIS under this scheme in 2014.
 She has since been promoted to Senior Lecturer. In 2019, her work on securitization theory was
 recognized with an Independent Social Research Foundation mid-career fellowship. Her single-
 authored monograph on The Morality of Security was published by Cambridge University Press
 the same year. Our Leverhulme Early Career Research Fellows have benefited from similar
 support. Kyris was mentored by a senior colleague (Wolff), undertook research methods training
 supported by the School Knowledge Transfer Fund and conducted fieldwork in Cyprus, Georgia,
 Ukraine, Kosovo and Palestine, part-funded by the School Internationalisation Fund (resulting in
 an article in Geopolitics). In 2019 he achieved a permanent position in POLSIS.

 Our mentoring and support of ECRs has yielded significant publication and research grant
 successes. Tsourapas has, since 2014, written a single-authored monograph (published by
 Cambridge University Press), published 14 refereed articles (including in International Studies
 Quarterly, International Political Science Review and Third World Quarterly) and obtained awards
 from the British Academy, the Council for British Research in the Levant and the ESRC Impact
 Accelerator Account. Reardon has published articles in Policy Sciences and Policy & Politics and,
 since August 2020, has been Principal Investigator on an Engineering and Physical Science
 Research Council (EPSRC) project looking at low-carbon mobility as well as being Co-Investigator
 on an SRC/ICSSR project Understanding Indian Urban Governance Reform: A Comparative
 Analysis of the Smart City Mission Reforms and their Impact on Sustainable Urban Mobility.’
 Galpin is single author of a monograph on the Euro crisis (published by Palgrave, 2017) and author
 or co-author of eight refereed articles (including in The Political Quarterly, British Journal of Politics
 and International Relations and Comparative European Politics). Zartaloudis’s research has been
 published in the Journal of Common Market Studies (twice) and the European Journal of Political
 Research.

 2.1.2. Support for other research staff
 All research-active staff take part in an annual Performance and Development Review (PDR),
 managed locally by the College and School. These reviews discuss research objectives including
 career development needs, matching them to relevant resources, support or training. Such
 planning is responsive to individual priorities, with variable emphasis year-by-year between
 publications, impact or training, depending on circumstances. PDRs are one of the main means
 of workload allocation; as a norm, at least 33 per cent of contracted time is set aside for research
 activities in our workload allocation model. Additional dedicated research time is allocated for
 journal editorships, large grant applications and impact-related activity.

 While staff must satisfy a range of key performance indicators to attain promotion, there is no
 single template for success. Since 2014, from 37 applications, a total of 23 staff have been

                                                                                                    Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 promoted (11 to Senior Lecturer, nine to Reader, and three to Chair). The unit recognises that
 there are diverse career pathways, and so is sensitive to variation in individual commitments to
 publications, impact work and income generation. To promote wellbeing, since 2018-19 the PDR
 process has explicitly considered the connections between workload, work-life balance and
 mentoring.

 A system of regular study leave provides staff with dedicated time to focus on fieldwork, writing
 and grant applications. Staff are entitled to apply after three years of teaching at the University,
 taking up to one semester of leave per seven. Since 2014, a one-term period of study leave has
 been taken up 60 times by 45 staff.

 We also facilitate various forms of peer support. Our Academic Writing Group provides for weekly
 in-person meetings (moved to online format during the COVID-19 pandemic), and a hands-on
 space to obtain feedback on drafts and to discuss the practice of academic writing. These sessions
 have proven especially valuable as sources of advice on monographs (where authors need
 support over long periods) and have helped see to publication Haughton’s The New Party
 Challenge Changing Cycles of Party: Birth and Death in Central Europe and Beyond (Oxford
 University Press, 2020) and Smith’s Capitalism’s Sexual History (Oxford University Press, 2020).

 Complementing the Writing Group’s work, we maintain a programme of events on Research
 Essentials, including sessions on writing for journals, applying for grants and ‘cafés’ on
 methodology, led by colleagues or outside experts. For instance, there have been two week-long
 workshops on Qualitative Comparative Analysis, co-funded by POLSIS and the University’s
 Institute for Advanced Studies. In 2019, the School created a School Research Methods (SRM)
 Lead role to organise, coordinate and communicate methods-oriented activities across the
 School’s three departments.

 2.2.   Support for postgraduate researchers (PGRs)

 As of July 2020, 108 doctoral students were registered within the UoA, with staff also involved in
 supervising students registered in several other units. PGRs play an important part in research
 groups, centres and institutes. They are also provided with resources to organise their own events
 and activities through department, School and College budgets. Such events include work-in-
 progress presentations, workshops, and an annual one-day conference. For example, INLOGOV
 runs a monthly PhD Showcase, enabling doctoral students to discuss their work with academics,
 whilst the Annual School PGR conference combines presentation of thesis work with talks by staff
 on career development.

 The unit has enhanced its doctoral training provision, set within the context of our membership of
 the ESRC-funded Midlands Doctoral Training Partnership – a consortium that also includes Aston,
 Leicester, Loughborough and Warwick universities (see Section 1.5). We have a successful track
 record of receiving funding from the DTP, winning six awards since it was inaugurated in 2016.
 We have also invested in specialist scholarships on specific research themes, for instance a
 doctoral bursary to work on the Chilcot Inquiry and Britain’s War in Iraq, and another on diplomacy
 linked to the Commonwealth Games in Birmingham in 2022.

 All PGRs take part in an Annual Progress Review, which provides guidance on research plans
 and assesses training needs. All annual reviews require agreement by a non-supervising


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 academic to approve progression. PGRs completing their first-year review face a larger panel of
 non-supervising staff, based upon submission of a refined project plan.

 Doctoral researchers also receive dedicated resources to support academic activities. The School
 Research Fund sets aside £14,500 annually for PGR conference attendance and fieldwork. To
 encourage development of budget-management and collective decision-making skills, these funds
 are allocated by a committee of PGRs themselves.

 We also integrate PGR students into internationally oriented programmes. For example, Lowndes’
 partnership with the University of São Paulo (USP) to research municipal financial resilience
 (funded by IGI) has included two Brazilian PhD students on a sandwich year from USP. PGRs
 have also been involved in joint authorship with staff in refereed journals. This includes: Clinical
 Child Psychology and Psychiatry (Capelos and Stocks), Global Society (Wolff and Kartsonaki),
 International Affairs (Averre and Davies), Politics and Political Studies Review (Bates with Amery
 and Miller), Political Studies (Lowndes and Lempriere) and Security Studies (Quinn and Banka).

 Our supportive environment has borne fruit in career progression. Since 2014, there have been
 99.85 PhD completions:

 Table 1: Disaggregated doctoral degrees, by year:

  UoA 19          2013-14     2014-15     2015-16     2016-17     2017-18     2018-19     2019-20
  Foren.Clin.P
  sy.D                    0           0           0           0           0           0         0.1
  Ph.D.                18.5          17          14          18        13.5        9.05         8.8
  PhD with
  Integ Study             0           0         0.4           0           0           0         0.5
  Grand Total          18.5          17        14.4          18        13.5        9.05         9.4

 Numerous graduates of our doctoral programme now hold academic positions: including
 Lectureships/Senior Lectureships at Aston, Birmingham, Keele, Leicester, the Royal Military
 Academy Sandhurst, and Sheffield; as well as Research Fellowships at the Australian National
 University, Greifswald (Germany) and Southampton. Since 2014, 47 per cent of our PhD alumni
 have obtained academic positions. Excellent performance is reflected also in the award of prizes.
 In 2019, Cherry Miller was the joint recipient of the ECPR Joni Lovenduski Prize for an outstanding
 thesis in the field of gender and politics. Melany Cruz was awarded the Ernest Barker PSA Prize
 for the best thesis in political theory in 2020.

 2.3. Promoting equality, diversity and inclusion

 Historically, there has been a gender imbalance in the UoA’s constituent departments, and we
 recognise that there is still work to be done to achieve gender parity. Our return to REF 2014
 (which also included IDD) indicated that only 33 per cent of permanent full-time Category A staff
 were female. For REF 2021, that figure is largely the same at 32 per cent. Some improvement has
 been registered at the professorial level, however. In July 2013, neither POLSIS nor INLOGOV
 had any female professors; each now has one Professor amongst its Category A staff (alongside
 six who are male). We have also improved the situation at Lecturer level. Here, female staff now
 constitute a majority among Category A (12 of 22 as opposed to seven of 19 in July 2013). We
 acknowledge a remaining imbalance at Senior Lecturer level.


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Efforts to correct gender imbalance reflect the UoA’s broader commitment to intersectional
 equality. Our Athena Swan Bronze Award was the product of significant self-examination.
 Following an unsuccessful application in 2017, the School appointed a Head of Equality, Diversity
 and Inclusion (Tsourapas), who, sitting on the School Management Team (SMT), adopted an
 Equality and Diversity Action Plan that involved an annual School Equality and Diversity Survey
 (EDS), supported by focus-group sessions with PGT and PGR students and female members of
 staff. In consequence, the Athena Swan awarding panel commended the School for ‘positive
 cultural changes’ and ‘the embedding of equality, diversity and inclusion within the School.’

 These efforts have been complemented by other initiatives. Lindstädt is the lead for equality and
 diversity initiatives across the four Schools that make up the College of Social Sciences. The UoA,
 meanwhile, hosts ‘WIN:WIN’, a cross-University network formed in 2013 which convenes regular
 events and action-learning sets for women, encouraging the development of female role models.
 For her role in this initiative, Durose was named a ‘Woman of Action’ as part of the ‘Making Space’
 initiative celebrating women’s leadership at the University of Birmingham. A School LGBTQ+
 Network was established in 2018 for all academic staff and PGRs as a source of support beyond
 central University Welfare Services. It provides informal peer support and a confidential space to
 discuss sexual orientation or gender identity as well as promoting awareness of LGBTQ+ issues
 across the School. Two University-level programmes also provide support: the Aurora Leadership
 programme for female staff members that aims to develop skills and confidence to negotiate
 careers and build networks (five of our staff have participated), and the Aditi Leadership
 Programme for BAME academic and academic-related staff, which helps identify and address the
 barriers colleagues may face (see REF5a, 3.4.4.). We have organised women-only and LGBT+
 writing retreats for academic staff and PGRs. These have been held at local venues to encourage
 participation of staff with caring responsibilities.

 We have also taken action to improve recruitment in areas where numbers of women or BAME
 individuals are under-represented. To address the gender gap, we have pursued increased
 applications from female candidates, through considered design and marketing of vacancies. All
 advertisements include a declaration that signals receptiveness to such candidates. Since July
 2018, the School has invited candidates to discuss job roles with senior female staff before and
 during the application process. We require gender-balanced search committees and selection
 panels for all posts and monitor outcomes. Every appointment panel is gender-inclusive and all its
 members must complete Equality and Diversity and Recruitment and Selection training. The
 School has revised its recruitment policy to ensure that there are no male-only shortlists. These
 efforts have had a positive effect. Eight of the 15 staff hired in security and conflict studies since
 2014 are women – here, we have rejuvenated a traditionally male-dominated field by recruiting
 early and mid-career female scholars.

 Similarly, we have taken action on staff development. We have supported events organised by
 female ECRs on career progression and female professional advancement. There has been a 10
 per cent annual increase in female staff members' promotion applications. Unconscious bias and
 equality and diversity training is now mandatory for new staff. An annual promotion workshop and
 informal CV review session is held for female staff. To help staff with caring responsibilities and
 those with disabilities, we have taken measures to alleviate workload stress (so ensuring such
 staff continue to actively engage in research). Such initiatives include a Core Working Hours
 Policy, access to a new Equalities Conference Travel Support Fund, and workload remission for
 staff returning from parental leave after more than six months. Staff with disabilities and chronic


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 health conditions have benefitted from the University’s Reasonable Adjustment policy. During the
 COVID-19 pandemic, all staff have been afforded the opportunity of workload mitigation by
 reference to the Reasonable Endeavours initiative.

 In preparing our REF submission, we paid particular regard to the provisions of the University’s
 REF2021 Code of Practice. Half of the eight-person panel running our output selection was
 female. All panel members undertook mandatory equality and diversity training. To minimise bias
 in the grading process, all internal reviews worked as blind double-reading. Work by female
 colleagues was subject to a review involving at least one female reader. To identify and prevent
 any inadvertent discrimination against individuals with protected characteristics at the output
 selection stage, our unit-level output selection panel undertook two Equality Impact Assessments
 that analysed our outputs portfolio with reference to intersectional data on gender, ethnicity, age,
 career stage and disability. For staff whose ability to work productively was affected by personal
 circumstances such as career stage, caring responsibilities, periods of parental leave, mental and
 physical illness, part-time working, and/or contractual status, the University invited staff to disclose
 these circumstances in confidence, with follow-up support provided at School level with
 individuals’ consent.



 Section 3: Income, infrastructure and facilities

 External research funding (supplemented by departmental, School and College funds) along with
 technical support, infrastructure and facilities have successfully nurtured diverse and impactful
 research in the UoA.

 3.1. Income
 The UoA has obtained external research income totalling £4,084,328 (as recorded by HESA
 research finance returns), which represents £80,000 per capita of submitted staff.

 Staff have drawn upon a wide variety of funding sources, including the ESPRC (Reardon), ESRC
 (Albertazzi, Bailey, Durose, Moore, Reardon, Steans, Wheeler, Wolff, Yakinthou), Leverhulme
 (Finlay, Shorten, Siniver), the UK Research Council-funded JPI Urban Europe (Durose), the
 Newton Fund (Lowndes), European Commission frameworks FP7 and H2020 (Wolzcuk), Jean
 Monnet (Galpin), the Koch Foundation (Quinn), Gerda Henkel Stiftung (Dunn), the Open Society
 Institute (Dunn), and the Independent Social Research Foundation (Floyd).

 Externally funded projects have resulted in a number of significant outputs. The findings of the
 International Drone Policy theme of the ICCS – involving Dunn, Wheeler and Wolff, backed by
 ESRC, Gerda Henkel and Open Society funding – have been published in the journals Civil Wars
 and Ethnopolitics. Wolczuk’s FP7 and H2020 projects have supported a string of publications on
 Ukraine and Georgia – including a special issue (jointly edited by Wolczuk) of Europe-Asia
 Studies, two commissioned reports for the Royal Institute of International Affairs (Chatham
 House), and a monograph in the Palgrave Pivot series. Yakinthou’s ESRC Impact Accelerator
 Account awards have resulted in a co-edited volume on transitional justice published by
 Cambridge University Press and articles on the same subject in the Journal of Intervention and
 Statebuilding, the International Journal of Transitional Justice and the RUSI Journal. Albertazzi’s
 ESRC award has led to the appointment of two research fellows – one of whom (Zulianello) has
 had an article published in Government and Opposition on the project’s core theme of populist

                                                                                                 Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mass parties. Albertazzi has co-edited a volume on populism in western Europe that will appear
 in January 2021 (Routledge).

 To support staff engagement with external stakeholders, the UoA has benefitted from some £227k
 of funding from the ESRC Impact Accelerator Account. Such support has underpinned Yakinthou’s
 work with the Voices of Memory collective in Tunisia. That project has widened public access to,
 and participation in, political processes for activists and the victims of political repression. It has
 also helped facilitate Yakinthou’s work with the New York-based International Centre for
 Transitional Justice (ICTJ).

 Internal funds are also significant. Since 2014, dedicated funds from the School and College have
 been assigned to impact and engagement activities. Funds from the ESRC Impact Accelerator
 Account, the College Impact Fund and the University Impact Fund allocated to staff in the UoA
 have totalled £178,420. These sources sit alongside other forms of departmental, School and
 College support.

 Some specific examples illustrate the range and effectiveness of such support. First, all staff in
 POLSIS are provided with the equivalent of £1k per annum to assist with personal research costs
 (conference attendance, professional subscriptions, travel). Second, the College Quality Output
 Support Scheme (QOSS) has supported fieldwork, research assistance and translation costs; a
 parallel College scheme has been in operation to fund Gold Open Access publications (the UoA
 has drawn upon £50k of funding since 2017 from these two sources). Third, we have pump-primed
 interdisciplinary collaborations, so helping staff build networks across disciplines. ICCS received
 major University investment during this period, with annual School support of £7,500 plus some
 £1million from the University’s Dynamic Investment Fund to support two academic posts and
 dedicated administrative support. Fourth, a Research Assistant scheme has allowed staff to
 employ postgraduate researchers to assist on major outputs. Such positions are filled through a
 formal interview and induction process, simultaneously creating opportunities for skills
 development, experience and paid work. Fifth, we have set aside dedicated funds to support
 manuscript development workshops that bring together external experts with our own staff. Books
 by Floyd (published by Cambridge University Press), Macartney (Oxford University Press),
 Tsourapas (Manchester University Press) and Wheeler (Oxford University Press) have all
 benefitted from this scheme. And sixth, staff are offered tailored support – Jeffares, for instance,
 received training in social media data analysis that informed his forthcoming book The Virtual
 Public Servant.

 3.2. Infrastructure and facilities supporting research
 The UoA benefits from well-resourced, highly skilled professional services staff committed to
 research and impact support. Grant applications are supported at the pre-award stage by a
 College Research Support Office (CRSO) and a central University EU and International funding
 team. A designated post-award team exists within the College. Impact and engagement are, in
 turn, supported by College and School-based Impact Development Officers, a College-based
 Research Planning Partner, and the University Public Engagement team. Our physical
 infrastructure is supported by Data Management, IT and Library Services which provide secure
 research storage, a research management system for funding (Worktribe) and high-performance
 computing. In addition, University of Birmingham Enterprise, a subsidiary of the University,
 supports staff in engaging with the outside market, creating new businesses and social
 enterprises, and academic consultancy.

                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 PGRs benefit from dedicated facilities: a newly renovated office suite is located in the Muirhead
 Tower which is also home to the UoA’s academic staff. PGRs also have access to the Westmere
 Hub, a training and social space that encourages exchange between PGRs across the University.
 Our facilities also reflect a commitment to equality and diversity (see Section 2.3.). For example,
 in response to School Equality and Diversity survey findings, the School installed new EDI notice
 boards in mid-2018 that provide a public, visible space for publicising EDI events, initiatives on
 mental health and wellbeing, and the School’s LGBTQ+ Network and its activities. Zoom research
 seminars have provided an opportunity for greater accessibility, and we are tracking this through
 the School Research Committee, with a view to offering a blend of in-person and online
 symposiums on an ongoing basis.

 The UoA has a well-developed research communication strategy that integrates Open Access
 publications, workshops, our own blogs, and both traditional and social media, to help staff
 communicate their material. Publications are often accompanied by shorter pieces targeting
 specific audiences with summaries of the findings and policy implications of research, alerting
 them to the free availability of the full research. Supported by a team of College-based
 communications staff, the unit has made a conscious effort to raise the media profile of academic
 colleagues and their work, with greater focus on national and international outlets. 57 unit staff
 wrote 310 articles in The Conversation between 2014 and 2020. Two innovative platforms became
 hubs of activity. The in-house podcast Political Worldview (organized by Quinn) produced 60
 episodes, interviewing staff and postgraduate researchers about their research and its policy
 implications. We have also worked with the news and commentary website EA Worldview, which
 attracts a readership of three million page views a year, with an audience spanning government,
 business, intelligence, academia and journalism.

 Our Development and Alumni Relations Office helps promote the work of our graduate students
 and early career researchers via its newsletter Old Joe. In 2016, it created YouTube clips of work
 by doctoral students Amelia Morris on the link between the dieting industry, the beauty ideal and
 women’s body dissatisfaction; and Lindsay Clark on ‘Queer Warriors: The Lives and Identities of
 British Drone Crews.’ Such support is also available for established staff – Wolff appeared in the
 University’s Birmingham Heroes outreach campaigns in 2018/19, to highlight the University’s work
 in ‘preventing and resolving conflict worldwide.’

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 We are committed to widening our research base and influence, thereby strengthening the
 discipline. The unit’s supportive environment helps colleagues develop national and international
 collaborations and strengthen partnerships with researchers, NGOs and policy practitioners.

 4.1. Collaboration
 Collaboration has been fundamental to the framing of our research and to its outcomes. Of the
 124 outputs submitted in REF2, 53 were the product of co-authorship with colleagues outside the
 University of Birmingham. These and other outputs have often resulted from funded projects with
 external partners. The involvement of Durose with the Jam and Justice project has already been
 noted (see Section 1.7). Further, Durose’s work as Co-I on the Smart Urban Intermediaries project
 (led by Merlijn van Hulst at Tilburg University) led to a co-authored article in Public Administration
 Review and involvement in series of project reports. Lowndes collaborated with Francesca Gains

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 at Manchester through an ERC-funded Understanding Institutional Change project (resulting in
 co-authored publication in the journal Governance). In addition, Lowndes’s British
 Academy/Newton Fund project on Syrian refugees in Turkey has been carried out with Rabia
 Krakaya Polat at Isik University, Istanbul (Lowndes and Polat co-authored a piece on the subject
 for Local Government Studies in 2020). Wolczuk was part of the University of Birmingham team
 (led by Rilka Dragneva at University of Birmingham Law School) working with the H2020-funded
 EU-STRAT consortium (2016-2019; giving rise to Working Papers published by both EU-STRAT
 and Chatham House). Ces Moore was the lead of the Actors and Narratives programme of the
 ESRC-funded Centre for Research and Evidence on Security Threats (CREST) involving
 Birmingham as well as the Universities of Bath, Lancaster and Portsmouth. Moore was the author
 of four CREST reports in 2019 analysing Russian disinformation campaigns; he has also co-
 authored CREST reports with ESRC/CREST-funded doctoral student (Youngman).

 Collaboration has been fostered through appointments as Research and Visiting Fellows.
 Connolly is Visiting Professor at the Russian Academy of National Economy and Public
 Administration; Connolly, Cutts and Wolczuk are Associate Fellows of the Royal Institute of
 International Affairs; Kaneff is an Associate of the Max Planck Institute for Social Anthropology
 (Halle, Germany); Porter is a Senior Associate Fellow at the Royal United Services Institute (RUSI)
 in London and, along with Morefield, is a Fellow of the Quincy Institute for Responsible Statecraft;
 Wolff is an Associate Fellow at RUSI and a Senior Advisor at the Global Centre for Pluralism,
 Ottawa. Indicative recent appointments include Durose (Visiting Fellow at the Great Cities
 Institute, UIC Illinois; the Tilburg Institute of Governance; and the Australia and New Zealand
 School of Government, Carlton, Australia); Gaskarth (Visiting Professor at Sciences Po 2018);
 Haughton (Visiting Professor, Colorado College, 2016); Tsourapas (Fellow at the Centre for
 European Studies, Harvard University, 2019–20), and Webber (Visiting Research Professor at the
 College of Arts and Science, New York University, 2015).

 4.2. The beneficiaries of our research
 Strengthening relationships with research users has been a priority of the UoA. The ICCS is a
 good example. It is a member of the OSCE Network of Think Tanks and Academic Institutions.
 ICCS affiliate Wolff was lead editor in 2020 of a report on the Balkans and the Chinese Belt and
 Road Initiative commissioned by the Hamburg-based Centre for OSCE Research, involving a
 team of seventeen collaborators (including Webber). He was also lead author of a World Bank
 report published in 2020 on Subnational Governance and Conflict. The work of ICCS with BASIC
 is also noteworthy. Wheeler’s ESRC award on Nuclear Ethics and Global Security was supported
 by an advisory group that involved BASIC’s Director (alongside former FCDO and Ministry of
 Defence officials, the former Australian Foreign Minister Gareth Evans, and the former Head of
 the UN’s Institute for Disarmament Research, Patricia Lewis). In 2018, the ICCS and BASIC
 awarded its first ESRC collaborative studentship award via the Midlands DTP. Between 2018 and
 2020, the ICCS and BASIC co-hosted eight policy roundtables in London (twice), Tokyo, Kuala
 Lumpur, Geneva, the Hague, São Paulo and New Delhi with the support of the FCDO, the Joseph
 Roundtree Charitable Trust and the UK Conflict and Stability Fund. The ICCS (in partnership with
 BASIC, King’s College London and NATO Watch) co-hosted the 2014 NATO Shadow Summit. In
 December 2019, to support the NATO Leaders’ Meeting in London, ICCS affiliate Webber was the
 lead academic organiser (in partnership with the FCDO and the British International Studies
 Association (BISA)) of a Model NATO in London. He also presented at NATO’s official public
 outreach event, NATO Engages. In January 2020, Model NATO was commended in the House of
 Commons by Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab.

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 ICCS has undertaken four separate projects on international drone policy which have been of
 direct relevance to policymakers. Staff working in this area have had a series of fruitful interactions
 in the policy domain. Dunn gave expert evidence to the House of Commons Science and
 Technology Select Committee and his work was cited on nine separate occasions in the ensuing
 committee report – ‘Commercial and Recreational Drone Use in the UK, Twenty-Second Report
 of Session 2017–19 HC 2021’ (published October 2019). His recommendations on drone
 registrations and geo-fencing of airports were subsequently taken into consideration by the UK
 government in the Air Navigation (Amendment) Order 2019. Dunn has also advised the
 Parliamentary Office for Science and Technology, the National Police Chiefs’ Council, and the
 West Midlands Counter-Terrorism Unit. In October 2014, the ICCS published a University Policy
 Commission report on ‘The Security Impact of Drones.’ The Commission was chaired by Sir David
 Omand (former head of GCHQ) and held consultations with the All-Party Parliamentary Group on
 Drones, as well as senior figures in the United Nations, the Church of England and the defence
 industry. Its Report was cited in a Parliamentary Early Day Motion, in a House of Commons
 Briefing Paper, in a Parliamentary Office for Science and Technology Note and in a joint letter by
 MPs and experts to the Secretary of Defence.

 INLOGOV, similarly, has sustained a number of significant partnerships. This includes Lowndes’s
 work with the new mayoral combined authorities’ network, supported by the IAA and undertaken
 in partnership with the University of Birmingham Business School. Research from the Jam and
 Justice project (Durose) has directly influenced public policy at a city-regional scale, as well as
 individual organisations in Greater Manchester. Impact included the adoption of the principle of
 co-production as a policy across the work of the Greater Manchester Combined Authority, leading
 to policy changes in health, social care and procurement. Work led by Mangan in INLOGOV on
 the ‘21st Century Public Servant’ constitutes one of the UoA’s Impact Case Studies.

 Expertise across the UoA, meanwhile, makes our staff attractive sources of advice to UK
 government and parliament. We have regularly provided briefings to the UK FCDO, Ministry of
 Defence and Cabinet Office (Dunn, Gaskarth, Kyris, Porter, Quinn, Webber); made submissions
 to, or have been cited in, House of Commons Committee reports (Kyris, Porter, Wolff); and in the
 case of CREES-affiliated staff (Averre, Connolly, Haughton, Wolczuk) have briefed the Foreign
 Secretary, ambassadors and civil servants on UK policy toward Russia, Ukraine and east-central
 Europe. In 2015, Gaskarth served as a member of the Academic Advisory Panel for the UK
 National Security Strategy and Strategic Defence Review. Smith has participated in a Home Office
 symposium (September 2016) on prostitution to gather evidence and gain advice about
 appropriate methodologies for researching the subject. Her report (co-authored with Sarah
 Kingston, University of Central Lancashire), Sex Work Statistics in the UK, was commissioned by
 the Liberal Democrats.

 Our expert advice has also been relayed internationally. Advice provided by Wolczuk to the
 European Commission and European Parliament has shaped the implementation of EU
 Association Agreements with Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine (that work is central to our Impact
 Case Study on Shaping EU Policy towards the Eastern Partnership Countries). Wolff’s
 engagement with the EU, the OSCE and the government of Moldova has been instrumental in the
 creation of a framework law aimed at settling the decades-long conflict in Transnistria. Wolff was
 also an expert advisor for a documentary on Moldova’s ‘frozen conflict’ distributed by Arsenal-
 Berlin and has advised the Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance, the United Nations

                                                                                                Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Office of the Special Adviser on Yemen, and the United Nations Economic and Social Commission
 for Western Asia. Webber has been involved in projects run by NATO’s Allied Command
 Transformation in partnership with Bologna University. He has also been an invited participant to
 expert workshops on nuclear strategy and partnerships organised by the NATO Defence College
 (NDC) in Rome. Webber (along with Connolly) has produced commissioned Reports and Briefs
 for NDC.

 Our staff have also contributed to the work of think tanks, NGOs and charities. Connolly, Cutts
 and Wolzcuk have all written reports for Chatham House. Gaskarth’s book on Secrets and Spies:
 UK Intelligence Accountability after Iraq and Snowden was jointly published by Chatham House
 and the Washington-based Brookings Institution. Bloom was co-author of written evidence
 submitted to the British Future independent enquiry into British citizenship. Bloom and Galpin have
 both contributed blogs to the Discover Society.

 Colleagues have been members of institutes ranging from the Global Refugee Compact (Bloom),
 the Royal Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce, Citizens UK:
 Birmingham’s Leadership Group and the UK National Council (Durose); Under the Radar (Smith);
 and Neighbourhood Practice Teams in Amsterdam-West (Bartels). Until 2019, Smith was a co-
 convenor of the Sex Work Research Hub.

 Our broader societal impact is evident in a number of ways. In response to the COVID-19
 outbreak, we produced timely and accessible public commentary. This included online outward
 facing lectures on the social and political implications of the pandemic (Bailey, Morefield, Porter),
 and articles co-ordinated by Albertazzi on the impact of the pandemic on European politics via the
 populism project’s website. We have also participated in the annual ESRC Festival of Social
 Science in order to build public engagement, including for example well-attended online events in
 2020 on Black celebrity activism and the rise of Fascism (66 attendees). The videos from this
 event received 36,000 views. Throughout the assessment period, Dunn has been Chair of the
 West Midlands Military Education Committee (WMMEC), a consortium of universities and Armed
 Service Units in the region. Lectures organised by Dunn under WMMEC auspices have been
 delivered by, among others, the Director of the UK Defence Academy, the former Chief of the UK
 Defence Staff, and the First Sea Lord of the Royal Navy.

 Our staff have also published in influential news and commentary outlets. Porter is a regular
 contributor to War on the Rocks and The Critic (authoring the magazine’s cover article in
 December 2019). In this assessment period, he has also written for Politico, History Today, Policy
 Exchange (with Gaskarth) and the New Statesman (with Morefield). Haughton is an authoritative
 commentator on the politics of east-central Europe – with fifteen articles published in ‘The Monkey
 Cage’ forum of The Washington Post in the assessment period. Quinn has written on US foreign
 policy for The Wire and Middle East Eye and has appeared on Talk Radio, BBC West Midlands,
 and ITV Central. Lindstädt has regularly commented on U.S. politics, including on BBC Radio and
 BBC News.


 4.3. Contributions to the sustainability of the discipline

 Our staff have played a crucial role in supporting Political Science and International Studies both
 as an academic profession and as a research field.


                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 On the latter, our staff have co-edited numerous book series, including Cambridge Studies in
 International Relations, Cambridge University Press (Wheeler); Political Psychology, Palgrave
 (Capelos); Identities and Politics in the Middle East, Manchester University Press (Darwich);
 Global Political Economies of Gender and Sexuality, Rowman and Littlefield International (Smith).
 In 2020, editorship of one of the discipline’s mostly highly regarded generalist journals, British
 Journal of Political Science (Lindstädt), and one leading subfield journal, the Journal of Global
 Security Studies (Siniver and Gaskarth), came to the unit. We have been involved as lead editors
 in a further seven journals: British Politics (Kerr), Ethnopolitics (Wolff), Local Government Studies
 (Reardon), Political Studies Review (Cutts), Post-Communist Economies (Connolly), Science and
 Society (Capelos), and the Annual Review supplement of the Journal of Common Market Studies
 (Haughton). Our staff have served on numerous editorial and advisory boards: Administrative
 Theory and Practice (Bartels), East European Politics, East European Quarterly and Slavonic and
 East European Review (Haughton), European Journal of International Security (Webber),
 European Security (Averre and Webber), Foreign Policy Analysis (Gaskarth), International Politics
 (Webber), Journal of Trust Research (Wheeler), Local Government Studies (Lowndes as chair);
 Political Science Research and Methods (Lindstädt).

 In addition, staff have guest edited a number of journal special issues, forums, handbooks and
 edited volumes. This includes:

       Albertazzi (co-editor of Modern Italy 20(1) 2015 on ‘Berlusconi’s Impact and Legacy’);
       Averre and Wolczuk (co-editors of Europe-Asia Studies 68(4), 2016 on ‘The Ukrainian
        Crisis and Post-Post-Cold War Europe’);
       Bailey (forum editor of ‘Class Struggle after Brexit’, Capital and Class, 41(2), 2017);
       Bates (co-editor of The Journal of Legislative Studies, 25(3), 2019 on ‘Committees in
        Comparative Perspective’);
       Capelos (co-editor of the Palgrave Handbook of Global Political Psychology, 2014);
       Gaskarth (co-editor of special section of International Affairs 90(3), 2014 on ‘British Foreign
        Policy and the National Interest’);
       Haughton (co-editor of the Journal of Common Market Studies, ‘Annual Review’, 2008 –
        2017);
       Lowndes (co-editor of Theory and Methods in Political Science – 4th edition, Palgrave
        Macmillan, 2018);
       Vieira (co-editor, Global Society 29(3), 2015 on ‘Challenges to Emerging and Established
        Powers’);
       Webber (co-editor, West European Politics 42(2), 2019 on ‘The European Union, Security
        Governance and Collective Securitisation’);
       Wolff (editor of Ethnic Conflict: Critical Concepts in Political Science – Routledge, 2018).

 Support for the profession, meanwhile, is evident from the leading external positions held by our
 staff. This includes Lowndes who oversaw the criteria-setting phase as Chair of the UoA19 REF
 sub-panel. Further professional service includes: Bailey (Chair of the Critical Political Economy
 Research Network of the European Sociological Association); Capelos (President of the
 International Society of Political Psychology); Darwich (Director of the Arab Political Science
 Network and Trustee of the Council for British Research in the Levant); Gaskarth (Convenor of
 the English School Section of the International Studies Association); Reardon (co-Chair of the
 Governance and Decision-Making Processes Special Interest Group of the World Conference on
 Transport Research Society); and Webber (Vice Chair and Chair of BISA).


                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The valuable contribution to the discipline made by our staff has been reflected in the conferring
 of a number of awards. Durose won the 2020 Political Studies Association Joni Lovenduski Prize
 for Outstanding Professional Achievement by a Mid-career Scholar. Lowndes won the Harrison
 Prize for best article in Political Studies (2019). Tsourapas’s book, The Politics of Migration in
 Modern Egypt – Strategies for Regime Survival in Autocracies (CUP, 2019), won the 2020
 ENMISA Distinguished Book Award.

 Three members of the UoA are Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences (Lowndes, Wolff,
 Wheeler). Durose and Wolff are both Fellows of the Royal Society for the Encouragement of
 Arts, Manufactures and Commerce. Haughton and White serve on the ESRC Peer Review
 College. Durose is Assessor for the Research Council of Norway, and Reardon is an Assessor
 for the Australian Research Council.




                                                                                           Page 20
