Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Salford

 Unit of Assessment: 27

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit context and structure

 Research at Salford in English Literature, Language and Creative Practice (ELLCP) is
 characterised by its commitment to innovative and newly developing or recently recognised
 cultural and linguistic practices and research that engages and collaborates with stakeholders
 and communities which are marginalised or of emergent social and political concern.

 Through judicious planning and support, the number of staff being submitted has risen from 12
 FTE to 15 FTE, and, via a strategic replacement policy, the Unit has diversified in terms of
 disciplinary areas. Overseas PhD student recruitment has expanded and completion rates have
 risen over the census period through improving support across the postgraduate research journey.

 Historically, ELLCP researchers were located in two former structures: the School of English,
 Sociology, Politics and Contemporary History and the School of Languages. Following the review
 of University research structures post-REF2014, ELLCP researchers now operate as a group
 within the Arts, Media and Communication Research Centre (AMCRC), which is located in the
 School of Arts, Media and Creative Technology (SoAMCT). ELLCP is key to the research strategy
 of both the AMCRC, with its emphasis on domestic and international collaborative work, and the
 University, with its ongoing commitment to interdisciplinary collaboration and focus on Creative
 and Resilient Communities. The Unit also plays a vital role in delivering and sustaining the
 University’s commitment to empower and nurture an inclusive and diverse community of
 researchers, all of whom are enabled to pursue research of the highest quality and integrity.

 The Unit is structured into three areas based on discipline:

 1. Literature and Culture (6.0 FTE): Magennis (Reader), Allan (Senior Lecturer, SL), Kilby (SL),
    Nigri (SL), White (SL), Munslow Ong (Lecturer, L)

 2. Language and Linguistics (4.0 FTE): Scott (SL), Bidgood (L), Kechagias (L), Wilson (L)

 3. Creative Writing and Performance (5.0 FTE): Kendall (Reader), Thurston (Reader), Hurley
    (SL), Naray-Davey (L), Savill (L)

 Uniting our work across these disciplinary divisions are two key areas of focus:

 i. Innovative cultural/critical practice: In line with the University’s commitment to interdisciplinarity
 and its focus on creative communities, the Unit specialises in the creative and cultural
 development, critical evaluation and merging of writing and arts-based practices. For example,
 Bidgood and Kechagias on psycholinguistics; Blakemore (leaver), Scott and Wilson on applying
 linguistics to the study of literature; Hurley, Kendall and Naray-Davey on new translation
 practices; Kendall and Thurston on experimental poetic practice and embodiment; Kendall and
 White on visual text and textual graphics; Kilby on fictocriticism and hybrid scholarship; Nigri on
 digital practices for adapting and translating Shakespeare; Savill on story-exchange for
 community building; Thurston on new creative therapeutic practices; and White on radical fiction.

 ii. Marginalised identities and communities: Consistent with the University’s focus on resilient
 communities, the Unit specialises in engagement and collaboration with stakeholders
 and communities, which are themselves subject to marginalisation and precarity, or are of growing
 social and political concern. This encompasses Blakemore on socially-marginalised aspects of
 language use; Hurley on digital printing amongst the disabled community; James (leaver) on
 WW2 shaping children’s identity; Magennis on post-Troubles Northern Irish identity and NI

                                                                                                   Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 women’s writing; Munslow Ong on animals in literature, decolonisation/African modernism and
 ecocriticism; Naray-Davey on translating Hungarian drama into English; Nigri on marginal
 identities in early Modern drama; Savill on community cohesion; Wilson on endangered
 languages and the overlooked role of gesture as well as on dementia diaries.

 Research strategy and achievements 2014 – 2020

 The strategy described in our REF2014 submission was linked to the Unit’s move to SoAMCT and
 was expressed as the need to develop wider collaborative opportunities and research capacity in
 synergy with the School’s interdisciplinary ethos. A good example of early success is Vital Signs,
 a collaboration between Thurston (Creative Practice) and Slee (Dance; leaver in 2015). Their
 initial collaboration was supported by sabbatical and research allowance funding, leading to Arts
 Council England funding (£15k) in order to create a new performance and a weekend festival of
 workshops and performances. In addition to placing a priority on interdisciplinarity, successful
 research has continued in areas of existing strength, for example, print culture and small presses
 (Thurston), and poetics/poetry (Hurley, Kendall, Thurston).

 All Creative Practice researchers in the Unit are active members of the ‘Practice as Research
 Centre for Excellence’, a School-wide initiative that supports interaction between practitioners in
 Media, Music, Dance, Creative Writing, Visual Arts, Graphic Design and Performance. An example
 of successful interaction is the collaboration between Kendall and Isherwood (Graphic Design) in
 a practice-led exploration of the creative interfaces between typography, text and poetry.

 Beyond the formal structures of the School, staff are active in establishing interdisciplinary
 research clusters, which enable development of new ways of working and the identification of
 collaborative agendas and funding opportunities. For example, Magennis (Literature) has founded
 a Digital Humanities Research Group with staff from Drama and Performance. She has also co-
 founded, with Samantha Newbery, (Reader in International Security), a Post-Conflict, Resilience,
 and Peace-Building Research Group, drawing together staff from within the School (Politics and
 Contemporary History) and from the wider University (including Criminology and Sociology in the
 School of Health and Society).

 A second, subsidiary aim was to consolidate ‘an emerging strength in the study of translation,
 adaptation and visual texts via a new School-wide research cluster’. Examples of success include
 the work of Hurley and Naray-Davey on the Hungarian translation of de Beauvoir’s The Second
 Sex; Kendall and Scott on translating Old English riddles; Nigri on digital and new media
 adaptations of Shakespeare; and the Visual Text Forum which includes Adams (Drama), Hurley
 and Kendall (Creative Practice), Isherwood (Graphic Design) and White (Literature).

 In addition to increasing our staff number over the REF period, our number of PhD degree awards
 has increased substantially; from 9 reported in REF2014 to 35 for REF2021. Growing both staff
 and student numbers has enabled a significant improvement in the nature, range and quality of
 research, including a richer postgraduate researcher (PGR) supervisory portfolio and experience
 and extended collaborative relationships. For example, with the arrival of Magennis, Munslow
 Ong, Savill and Wilson, the Unit has broadened and consolidated its presence in academic and
 practitioner networks: Magennis is Chair of the British Association of Irish Studies and Savill is
 working with Narrative 4, a global story-exchange collaboration between artists, educators and
 students. Recent PGR successes include the involvement of AHRC-funded Emma Barnes
 (supervisor: Munslow Ong) in the organisation of the Pan African Congress 75th Anniversary
 Celebration and Windrush Memoirs (funded by Salford City Council), and Amjad AlShalan
 (supervisor: Magennis), who is Assistant Professor at King Saud University.

 Over the next five years, our vision is:

  To provide a dynamic realisation of the role and significance of literature, language, and
  creative practices in a diverse and complex 21st Century world, and to make a significant


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  contribution to debates around the nature and experience of identity and community in a
  prolonged period of cultural crisis (climate change, systemic racism, Brexit, COVID-19).

 Our goal is realistic because it is underpinned by the pursuit of sustained continuity and is in line
 with our institution’s strategic priorities. It also builds upon our established expertise in arts-based
 approaches to community cohesion, resilience and wellbeing, and the study of marginalised
 actors, groups and voices, including a focus on the environment.

 With a view to sustaining a vigorous interdisciplinarity, we want to utilise, for greater impact, our
 constitution across language, literature and creative practice, and identify projects that we can
 work on together to develop new modes of enquiry towards socially pertinent and relevant ends.

 To meet our goals, we intend to:

    •   increase the number, seniority and diversity of research-active staff through both
        recruitment and internal development of existing staff
    •   increase the production of internationally excellent and world-leading research outputs
    •   increase the financial value and duration of external funding applications (to allow for
        greater stability and depth in our activity)
    •   broaden and deepen the impact of ELLCP research for a diversity of non-academic users
    •   develop funding opportunities with support of specialist staff (for example, School Horizon
        Scanning Officer)
    •   create enhanced training and development provision
    •   increase the number of PGR enrolments and completions in ELLCP subjects through
        growth in domestic and overseas recruitment
    •   increase the involvement of PGR students and user-communities in the Unit’s research
        projects.

 Strategy to support current and future impact

 Our impact goal is to reach diverse and typically marginalised or emergent stakeholder
 communities via creative, collaborative and publicly engaged ways of working. Impact has been
 and will continue to be supported by:

    •   Research workload and personal development review processes
    •   Match funding by the School with institutional impact investment (for example, Hurley
        received £5,000 for developing an AHRC follow-on bid)
    •   A School Impact Coordinator to assist with impact action plans and monitor progress
        against objectives, with an Impact Lead for ELLCP in place going forward
    •   University-level industry collaboration staff in Research and Knowledge Exchange (RKE).

 We return to REF3 our two strongest examples of impact during this period. The first is Hurley’s
 AHRC research project exploring creative and inclusive 3D printing practices for tackling the digital
 deficit experienced by communities living with disability, and thereby creating new routes to skills
 development, self-expression and personal agency. Beyond the immediate benefits for project
 participants, the research activated knowledge exchange with industry professionals, evidencing
 positive changes in awareness and understanding of disabled makers, demonstrably informing
 future practice. Subsequently, the project gained Research England funding to produce policy
 advice for training providers.

 Our second REF3 submission describes Magennis’s research on contemporary Northern Irish
 literature and culture and evidences the impact of this work on public awareness of Northern Irish
 cultural production and the complex identities this new writing represents. Magennis has brought
 new voices into mainstream cultural discourse in Britain and Northern Ireland, also ensuring that
 the diverse beneficiaries of her work extend to the publishing world, where her scholarship has
 enriched cultural life and encouraged risk-taking in reading and writing.

                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 However, impact generated by ELLCP goes well beyond our submitted case studies: Savill's work
 with Narrative 4, an international community cohesion charity, has benefitted school students and
 teachers in Manchester, Birmingham and Limerick, Ireland. His workshops for developing
 empathy skills and new approaches to conflict resolution have been taken by over 60 school
 children in these locations and they have become the impetus for further classes given by teachers
 who have, in turn, learnt and used the workshop techniques. The success of the workshops can
 currently be measured in invitations to return to the school settings to perform further work using
 Narrative 4 workshop methods (post-COVID) and have been commended in The Guardian. To
 continue this work, Savill was awarded £5,000 internal impact funding.

 Thurston’s work with Arts for the Blues, an interdisciplinary, collaborative research project
 between Edge Hill University, University of Salford (with staff from Salford’s School of Health and
 Society), University of Cambridge and Greater Manchester Mental Health NHS Foundation Trust,
 has resulted in a creative psychological therapy that encompasses movement, speech, visual arts
 and writing. The intervention includes activities focused on connecting the arts with the body,
 experiencing and expressing emotions, sharing with others, working with insight and integrating
 useful material back to one’s life. Along the same theme, Wilson is developing impact in an area
 relating to healthcare with his ‘Communication and relationships in everyday life with dementia’
 work-package for Salford Institute for Dementia and Ageing.

 Another project with huge potential for meaningful cultural impact is Munslow Ong’s recent AHRC
 award (£203k; 2021-2024) to conduct research into South African Modernism 1880-2020. This
 includes funding for events related to decolonising the UK English curriculum to address current
 issues of educational and societal importance.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy

 The Unit’s staffing strategy, underpinned by the School’s research strategy, is based on 3
 overarching University commitments, described in REF5a:

    •   The Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (Salford became a
        signatory in 2010) and the Researcher Development Framework
    •   The University’s Inclusion and Diversity Strategy
    •   The University’s commitment to building strong connections between research and
        teaching.

 Since REF2014, we have sought to increase the number and capacity of research active staff via
 several policies of strategic external recruitment. New staff expertise in SoAMCT includes:

    •   Magennis, an expert in contemporary Northern Irish writing and post-conflict culture and
        communities
    •   Munslow Ong, a specialist in colonial and postcolonial texts, ecocriticism and animal
        literature
    •   Savill, a practice-based specialist in storytelling, community cohesion and diversity, and
        empathy
    •   Wilson, an expert in pragmatics, discourse analysis, gesture, endangered languages and
        the linguistic study of song lyrics.

 All of these appointments were at lecturer level and all of them quickly developed as key members
 of the Unit, with each producing notable outputs and making major contributions to the intellectual
 vitality, integrity and sustainability of the research group: Magennis exploring the marginalisation
 of Northern Irish culture within the Irish diaspora; Munslow Ong with her first monograph Olive
 Schreiner and African Modernism: Allegory, Empire and Postcolonial Writing which featured in the
 Times Higher Education as one of THE Books of 2017, and her recent award of an AHRC Early
 Career Research Fellowship; Savill with his multi-prize-winning novel They Are Trying to Break

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Your Heart; and Wilson with his prize-winning interdisciplinary journal article on metaphor and
 song lyrics, and in his role as Creativity Lead for Salford Institute for Dementia and Ageing. All four
 have been supported with study leave and workload allocation; three have received a combination
 of conference, research impact and/or strategic priorities funding. Magennis and Munslow Ong
 were also supported with VC’s Early Career Scholarships (which provided Munslow Ong with a
 month’s archival research in South Africa and the opportunity for early scoping work that was key
 to her successful AHRC bid).

 Strategic internal recruitment to ELLCP research areas includes:

    •   Bidgood, Lecturer in Psychology, School of Health and Society, with research interests in
        children’s language and communicative development
    •   Kechagias, with a Linguistics background (previously located in School of Languages)
        with research interests in communication, psycholinguistics and language acquisition
    •   Kilby, with a disciplinary background in criminology and sociology and specialism in
        critical-creative methodologies.

 All three researchers have enhanced the interdisciplinarity of ELLCP, with Bidgood and Kilby
 making significant contributions in terms of funding and esteem respectively: Bidgood is
 responsible for 30% of the Unit’s overall income and Kilby was awarded the 2018 Feminist Theory
 Essay Prize for her hybrid academic writing.

 Equality and diversity

 67% of the returned staff are female; a figure that has been maintained since 2014, despite staff
 turn-over and new appointments. Female staff have made notable progress with Kendall and
 Magennis awarded Readerships during the cycle; Nigri and Scott promoted to Senior Lecturer;
 and 3 securing major funding. The dynamic of the team has shifted towards a younger portfolio,
 demonstrating our investment in future leaders within the discipline.

 In alignment to our REF2021 Code of Practice, the attribution of outputs to staff has been subject
 to an equality impact assessment. Outputs by female staff are represented well in REF2, with 74%
 attributed to a female author (+7% compared to the proportion of female submitted staff). Outputs
 are attributed to staff from a BAME background in line with our proportion of submitted staff (8%
 attribution compared to 7% submitted staff). We are committed to improving diversity across
 ELLCP during the next cycle.

 While the success of women staff in the group reflects a strong commitment to the University’s
 policy of delivering diversity through an action-based Inclusion and Diversity Strategy, we also
 seek to provide an environment where all people are respected and treated fairly; to maintain a
 culture where diversity is celebrated and discrimination is not accepted; to take positive action to
 promote equality, diversity and fair access; and to embed equality and diversity in the execution
 of our research strategy. Examples of how we are seeking to do this include:

    •   Implementing our Code of Practice for the inclusion of staff for REF2021 has involved
        discussion with staff on an individual basis where they reported experiencing difficulties
        due to health, caring and/or equality of opportunity as related to protected characteristics

    •   Feeding anonymised insights from 3-year performance review plans into discussions
        across the Unit, to create ways of addressing the challenges different groups face,
        particularly, though not exclusively, where protected characteristics intersect with each
        other, and also with long term health conditions and with diverse caring responsibilities

    •   Making all internal funding opportunities available openly, whether these are at School or
        research centre level. Decisions on funding allocations are made by panels which
        represent the diversity of Schools


                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Operating cross-disciplinary research groupings, such as the ‘Women in Research’ group,
        in the School to create spaces for research by women to be visible, but also to explore the
        specific needs of women researchers and to respond to these with mentoring and training
        opportunities.

 Support and development for staff

 SoAMCT supports research staff development through formal processes, such as the annual
 performance and development review (‘Career Conversations’), research workload allocation and
 promotion opportunities. Internal funding of £24k has been awarded to ELLCP staff from central
 schemes, with some match-funding from SoAMCT, to ensure staff are able to participate in
 international conferences, build professional networks, share research findings and undertake
 effective impact activities. Training and development opportunities within the School complement
 the University’s researcher development programme (SECRET), to support staff to produce high-
 quality research outputs and plan their future impact work. Nurturing a supportive environment in
 which to conduct research is a priority and opportunities are provided for staff to interact at local
 and School levels.

 Formal career development processes
 All staff have annual Career Conversations with their line managers, allowing for feedback and
 advice on the individual’s research trajectory, setting of research objectives and measurement of
 achievement, and allocation of research workload. Staff 3-year research plans now feed into these
 discussions so that objectives are set for specific activities and each member of staff can receive
 the necessary support from their line manager, group lead and ADRI. QR is used to provide
 research workload for staff in line with their 3-year plan assessment outcome, with a minimum of
 20 workload units for staff with ‘significant responsibility for research’ in accordance with our
 REF2021 Code of Practice.

 Opportunities for promotion and advancement have supported six ELLCP staff to progress in their
 careers: Allan has been promoted to Dean of Salford Business School; Hurley was appointed to
 a fixed-term senior management role as Director of the Doctoral School within RKE; Kendall and
 Thurston were promoted to Reader; Nigri and Scott were promoted to Senior Lecturer.

 Research leave
 A competitive sabbatical leave scheme was introduced in 2015, allowing for a semester to develop
 or complete a research project, develop an impact project or a funding bid. To date 9 staff,
 including 4 lecturers, from ELLCP have been awarded study leave and direct outcomes include
 Magennis’s second monograph Northern Irish Writing After the Troubles: Bodies, Intimacies,
 Pleasures (in Bloomsbury’s New Horizons in Contemporary Writing Series) and Savill’s second
 novel All of Russia’s Children. Thurston’s sabbatical supported him to develop his expertise in
 creative arts and expand into psychotherapy and Kendall has been awarded two periods of study
 leave to work on Visual text, Cultural translation, Haiku, Old English translation and Creative
 practice research.

 Funding for conference attendance
 Funding to support conference and workshop attendance is available on an annual basis from
 central and SoAMCT sources. During the REF cycle, 8 ELLCP researchers have benefitted from
 this funding to attend and present at conferences such as African Literature Association
 Conference (USA), Translata International Translation Studies Conference (Austria), International
 Autobiography and Biography Association Conference (Cyprus), Annual Olive Schreiner Karoo
 Writers Festival (South Africa) and Redefining Theatre Communities: Community Perspectives in
 Contemporary Theatre-making (Malta).

 Supporting the production of high-quality research outputs
 An Internal Peer Review Panel was established in 2016 to provide feedback on research outputs
 using the criteria of ‘originality, significance and rigour’ and all ELLCP members have been
 involved in and benefitted from this process. This complements School Staff Development

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 workshops focused on improving the quality of publications, where staff can receive help and
 guidance on selecting appropriate publication outlets. Members of ELLCP have participated in
 delivering these sessions to the School, including Magennis and Scott.

 Research impact development
 Development of research impact is a priority and supported in multiple ways. Half of the internal
 funding support provided to ELLCP has been to expand this activity, with £12k made available
 from the University’s Research Impact Fund. This has supported impact-generating projects for
 Hurley, Magennis, Naray-Davey, Savill, Scott, Thurston and Wilson, which includes three of
 the new SoAMCT staff appointed in the census period. Annual impact action plans were
 introduced in 2018/2019 to support researchers to develop their impact in a strategic manner to
 maximise the benefits of the research for wider society, with five taking advantage of this
 development opportunity: Kendall (exploring visual texts, learning outcomes for students with
 dyslexia), Wilson (dementia, PICs and gesture research with communities in Oman); Hurley,
 Savill and Thurston (therapeutic creative writing practices and disability organisations). Other
 activities within ELLCP contribute to laying the groundwork for future impact through facilitating
 connections with external partners. An example is the opportunity to work with Jessica Symons
 from Visioning Lab Ltd. to help researchers develop their use of emerging technologies for
 sustainable and social purposes and thereby engage with communities in understanding their
 creative potential.

 Development of a supportive research community
 SoAMCT fosters a vibrant research community through providing opportunities for staff to come
 together across the School for productive intellectual exchanges and peer support. There is an
 Annual Research event which includes a celebration of research activity and opportunity to review
 progress in terms of the group’s planned objectives and to make any changes to its research
 strategy, which since 2018 is scheduled as part of the Festival of Research (see REF5a). At a
 local level, the ELLCP Research Lead (Thurston) regularly organises seminars at which
 colleagues present on projects in progress and receive feedback from the group. These allow for
 updates on developments in the research environment, newly planned projects and members’
 recent research activities.

 Support specifically for ECRs is available via several initiatives to ensure they can transition into
 a research career, develop and progress through effective mentoring, and learn the skills
 necessary to support others to do likewise:

    •   Internal funding support has been awarded to Magennis, Munslow Ong and Nigri through
        the VC’s Early Career Scholarships scheme

    •   A Next Generation Research (NGR) group is represented on School-level research
        committees and runs quarterly meetings and training events to support this community

    •   Senior and experienced researchers support and mentor ECR staff, Post-doctoral Fellows
        and Research Assistants. Examples include Thurston (Reader) with Michelle Morris
        (Lecturer); Hurley (Senior Lecturer) with Naray-Davey (Lecturer); Kilby (Senior Lecturer)
        with Munslow Ong (Lecturer), with Munslow Ong now mentoring Sanja Nivesjö, a
        Postdoctoral student (funded by the Swedish Research Council)

    •   Academic staff without a research degree are supported to undertake a PhD by Published
        Works. One staff member, Savill, is taking this route. Naray-Davey, with expertise in
        adaptation, drama, translation and Hungarian literature was awarded a PhD during the
        census period.

    •   ECRs are developed into the role of PhD supervisor through initially acting as a co-
        supervisor, enabling experience and the subsequent successful move to lead supervisor
        in future, e.g. Munslow Ong is now Lead supervisor for two PhD students.


                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Ensuring an excellent postgraduate research experience

 Over the census period, ELLCP’s PGR community has grown in a sustainable manner and, more
 importantly, includes a greater mix of home and international students (including Italy, Nigeria,
 and Saudi Arabia). The number of PGR completions has increased 233% (a total of 37), and the
 number of registered students in 19/20 was 18. They are being supported at University level by
 the Doctoral School, under the Directorship of Hurley.

 Between 2015 and 2019, an internal Pathways to Excellence Scheme utilised QR monies matched
 with School-level funding to provide bursaries to 5 students with significant potential and a topic
 in a strategic priority area (for example, Nicola Bozzi and digital humanities).

 The Unit also has 7 PGRs who have successfully secured AHRC Northwest Consortium Doctoral
 Training Partnership (NWCDTP) funding. For example, Flynn, who also successfully bid for a
 Fieldwork and Conference Fund Grant (£4,000) from the NWCDTP to complete fieldwork in
 America and Canada, and to attend and present at Southern Oregon University’s Creativity
 Conference (2019) and Davies, who successfully bid to the same fund to present at the Santiago
 Experimental Poetry Symposium (2019) at the University of Santiago de Chile/University Finis
 Terrae.

 Research students in ELLCP have achieved notable success in pursuit of academic and creative
 careers, for example: Joe Darlington (Lecturer at Futureworks); Abby Bentham (now a Salford
 staff member in English and Theatre); Mark Yates (now a Salford staff member in C18th/19th
 English Literature); Dalia Neis (Tutor at Freie Universitat, Berlin); Winda Setia Sari (first woman
 from Sumatra to gain a PhD in English poetry, now a lecturer in Indonesia); Lucy Winrow
 (Researcher, ProtectEd project, Salford); Joey Frances (Associate Lecturer, Liverpool Hope); and
 Lucy Burnett (Royal Literary Fund Fellow).

 Non-academic and/or creative successes include:

    •   Lucy Burnett, appointed as Director of the international literary festival StAnza, and was
        previously Director of the Arvon Foundation’s Centre at Lumb Bank, Heptonstall (2014-
        15). She was awarded an Arts Council England grant (2016) to tour a show based on the
        creative output of her PhD at Salford, published in 2015
    •   Sean Gregory, now a Senior Lecturer at Leeds Arts University, who won the Aesthetica
        Creative Writing Award (2019) and was signed by Bluemoose Books for his Burgess
        novel Dismember the Past to be published in 2021
    •   Stephen Hornby, who is an award-winning playwright and has completed play
        commissions for Islington and Bolton Museums, and a funded residency at the People’s
        History Museum in Manchester. He also secured a place on AHRC/TV Foundation TV
        Scheme (2019)
    •   Nathan Walker, a Lecturer at York St. John, who published part of his PhD as
        Condensations (2017), listed as one of The White Review’s Books of the Year (2017).

 Development and support for PGRs

 To complement the central Salford Postgraduate Research Training (SPoRT) programme, the
 following support and opportunities are provided:

    •   Students are supported by their supervisory team and their progress is regularly monitored
        through standard mechanisms at School and Doctoral School levels

    •   PGRs are assisted in attendance at national and international conferences and workshops
        through internal funding. Highlights include: Bozzi with internal funding for attendance at
        Transmediale Festival (Berlin) and a BBC New Generation Thinkers workshop, and Qudsia
        Akhtar with internal funding to attend a BBC New Creatives workshop


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Students are expected, with accompanying support, to take part in organising, hosting and
        presenting at the University-wide Salford Postgraduate Annual Researcher Conference
        (SPARC), as well as attending biannual Celebrating PGR Research Days

    •   Research training events for Consortium students as part of our AHRC NWCDTP
        membership and Salford was host to the 2018 NWCDTP annual research student
        conference at our MediaCityUK campus, whose theme was Digital Humanities: Human
        Technologies.

 Within ELLCP:

    •   PGRs are invited to and involved in all seminars/conferences organised by ELLCP and are
        supported in the organisation of their own events. For example, Poetry Emergency Festival
        2018 and 2019 organised by Nia Davies and Joey Frances with funds from AHRC and
        attracting a headline performance in 2019 from Pulitzer nominee Alice Notley (with
        mentoring provided by Thurston). Jennifer Campbell has also provided textile workshops
        for the Salford Institute for Dementia and Ageing.

    •   PGRs are supported in their publishing activity, and have published in a range of journals,
        including Journal of Postcolonial Writing and Journal of Victorian Culture Online. Several
        PGRs have been published by both small presses specialising in new experimental writing:
        Dalia Neis, Lucy Burnett and Victoria Barragan have been published by The Knives Forks
        and Spoons Press. Qudsia Akhtar has had a manuscript accepted for publication by Verve
        Books. Mainstream publisher, Corsair, have published Caty Flynn’s first novel Bernard and
        Pat (as Blair James), which has been named as one to watch in 2021 by Grazia magazine.
        Aisha Hussain is editing an essay collection with Dr Murat Öğütcü (Assistant Professor at
        Munzur University, Turkey) and has written a podcast (for a series hosted by Durham
        University).

    •   PGRs are invited to work as research assistants on selected projects led by senior and
        established staff, thereby gaining valuable additional experience in data collection,
        analysis and writing. For example, Joey Frances contributed to a magazine digitisation
        project for international online poetry journal Jacket2. Aisha Hussain is involved with an
        online research project entitled Medieval and Early Modern Orients (MEMOs), an AHRC-
        funded project on early interactions between England and the Islamic worlds, while also
        contributing to monthly research blogs and editing the website’s Events Page.

    •   PGRs aligned with ELLCP have a workspace co-located with the research clusters and
        benefit from informal mentoring and guidance through regular conversations with
        academic staff.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 Acquiring, and building capacity for, external research funding has been a key objective during the
 cycle, resulting in income with a total value of £152,000, and a further £203,000 confirmed leading
 into the next REF cycle. We have secured awards from major funders such as the AHRC and Arts
 Council England and we have bids in progress with the ESRC and Leverhulme. Staff are
 supported in bidding for funds through training, peer-review of grant application, workload
 allowance and internal funding for bid development.

 Marginalised communities and innovative practice:
 The AHRC funding (2015-2016, £81,003) of Hurley’s 'In the Making' (a co-constructed mapping
 and feasibility study of digital fabrication labs and their potential to catalyse cultural change)
 enabled her to work with a range of industry and charity sector organisations on a project designed
 to bridge the digital divide between the relatively affluent, adept users of technology and disabled

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 users (see REF3). Outcomes included an invitation to contribute evidence to the All-Party
 Parliamentary Group report on Disability and Employment and a subsequent invitation to develop
 a policy-based response (for which Hurley has secured an additional £14,500 from Research
 England to investigate how training and support in digital fabrication skills could connect disabled
 people with the needs of employers). Academic outputs included two international journal articles
 (European Journal of Life Writing and a/b: Auto/Biography Studies) and a single-authored
 monograph: In the Making: Digital Fabrication and Disability with The Vernon Press (US). Hurley
 has now submitted an AHRC Follow-On Impact and Engagement application costed at £100k, in
 collaboration with the University’s Morson Makerspace, Greater Manchester Chamber of
 Commerce, The Landing at MCUK and Barclays Digital Eagles.

 Funding from The Waterloo Foundation (2020-2021, £55,762) has enabled Bidgood to explore
 the relationship between word-learning, exercise and sleep in children with Autism Spectrum
 Disorder, including a partnership with the award-winning charity, The Seashell Trust. Planned
 outcomes include publication of findings and a systematic review on exercise and ASD in a high-
 ranking journal (for example, Autism or Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders), an open-
 access publication and a follow-on bid (for an ESRC Research Grant, costed in the region of £1m)
 on the impact of digital media use on children’s socio-emotional and language development.
 Bidgood’s bid for £96,000 from The Dogs Trust to look at the efficacy of a behavioural intervention
 for children on their interaction with the family dog is at the final decision-making round.

 Magennis was awarded a Being Human Festival Award in 2016 of £1,000 for a public event on
 the Manchester Bomb (held at, and in association with, the Irish World Heritage Centre), and she
 was subsequently awarded £3,620 by the Government of Ireland in 2018 for an event exploring
 the anniversary of the Good Friday Agreement and £4,000 from the Reconciliation Fund (2019-
 2020) of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Ireland.

 An AHRC Early Career Research Fellowship (2021-2024, £203,000) has been confirmed for
 Munslow Ong. The project will explore how South African textual, personal and political
 connections helped shape global literary modernisms from the nineteenth century to the present
 day and includes public engagement and impact events in the UK and South Africa. Munslow Ong
 has also been awarded internal impact funding to support the development and delivery of
 workshops on South African literature aimed at A-Level English Literature students, with the
 subsequent aim to apply for AHRC follow-on-funding to roll out to all UK FE sixth forms and
 colleges pursuing the Eduqas syllabus. A broader aim of the project is to aid decolonising efforts
 in English Studies outside of HE.

 Creative Practice and Wellbeing:
 As part of an interdisciplinary team of researchers and practitioners including Vicky Karkou (Edge
 Hill), Linda Dubrow-Marshall (Salford), Ailsa Parsons (Salford), Nicky Clayton (Cambridge), and
 Joanna Omylinska (NHS), Thurston has secured funding from University and School impact
 funds to develop interactive webpages for the project website and funding from the Strategic
 Priority Fund to undertake a systematic review of online psychotherapy, inclusive of CBT,
 counselling, psychodynamic psychotherapy, arts psychotherapies and therapeutic arts to allow
 Arts for the Blues to move online.

 In his role as Arts and Media co-lead for ‘Communication and Relationships in Everyday Life with
 Dementia’, Wilson is part of a £5m bid (in collaboration with University of Manchester, Cardiff,
 Bradford and Salford) for an ESRC Centre for Social Research in Everyday Life with Dementia. If
 successful, Wilson will secure funding for 2 PhD students.

 Infrastructure and facilities

 Almost all of the Unit’s researchers are located in Crescent House (Peel Campus), with dedicated
 individual offices or workspaces and spaces for meetings as well as workspace provision for
 PGRs. Researchers also use both Salford’s MediaCityUK campus (MCUK) and New Adelphi for
 delivering key conferences, research seminars and performances. MCUK is a £50m building with

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 dedicated multimedia research facilities and New Adelphi includes exhibition and gallery spaces
 and a £55m state-of-the-art theatre. As a public-facing programmed arts venue, New Adelphi has
 opened up the possibilities for more visible, impactful and collaborative research in the areas of
 creative practice and performance.

 For example, in 2015 (prior to the opening of New Adelphi), MCUK provided theatre space for
 Naray-Davey, who, as part of the ECR VC Scholarship exploring the cultural translation of
 humour, directed a performance of Prah, a Hungarian play she had also translated (as part of her
 doctoral research). In 2016, Munslow Ong hosted ‘Asylum, Refuge, Migration’, a public-facing
 event which involved MEPs, writers, academics, asylum seekers, refugees, activists, charity
 representatives and artists. Also in 2016, Hurley used MCUK to host ‘In the Making: A Digital
 Revolution?’, a free 1-day conference exploring digital fabrication and disability, funded by AHRC,
 Shaw Trust and Ultimaker GB Ltd., and reported in the national press.

 Stephen Hornby, Fellow in Drama and Theatre Practice, and currently registered PGR, has
 performed several of his plays in The New Adelphi Theatre, including 'The Adhesion of Love'
 (which is now in screenplay development). Thurston has performed in The New Adelphi Studio
 Theatre; and it has provided Naray-Davey with space to do rehearsed reading of Prime Location
 (a play by the Hungarian writer Gyorgy Spiro, translated by Naray-Davey as part of doctoral
 research into cultural adaptation and translation). The Kannada poet and activist Mamta Sagar
 (Shristi Institute, Bengaluru) gave a workshop and performance in 2017 in the Studio, alongside
 PGR student Nia Davies. PGR student Rory Cook has used the University’s print studio based in
 New Adelphi to produce publications for his Monitor Books project – a small poetry press.

 Two other facilities are key to ELLCP researchers:

 The Makerspace at Salford is a major technical fabrication facility which enables staff and our
 PGR community to learn real-world engineering skills in the applications of digital fabrication,
 design and innovation processes. Specifically, Hurley utilised this space in collaboration with
 Disability UK over an 18-month period, offering workshops for the production of 3-D
 autobiographies, which resulted in a range of positive outcomes for disabled users, their friends,
 families and supporters, as well as key academic and policy outputs (see Section 1).

 The Dementia Hub is a key resource for Wilson and is located on the ground floor of the Allerton
 Building in spaces purposely designed, with funding (£500k) from the Dowager Countess Eleanor
 Peel Trust, the Wolfson Foundation and the Garfield Weston Foundation, for people living with
 dementia and their carers. These physical arrangements greatly facilitate informal interactions,
 information exchange and the emergence of ideas for new projects or research activities.

 Researchers across the Unit have benefitted from investment through this and the previous REF
 cycle in physical infrastructure and facilities that help us achieve our strategic aims. That
 opportunity is set to continue into the next cycle, as the new Campus Masterplan for the main
 University campus is developed, including the planned refurbishment of the historic Maxwell Hall
 as an events venue. This new infrastructure and investment is a key part of Salford’s Strategy for
 Culture, Creativity and Place. Chancellor Jackie Kay stated: “through the redevelopment of our
 campus and the surrounding area – the Salford Crescent Masterplan – we are already working
 with partners in the city to deliver a cultural quarter for Salford.”

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration:

 In line with our stated objectives, ELLCP researchers have established a range of collaborative
 relationships, from those forged with key stakeholders (including charities, public and voluntary
 organisations, as well as local communities and community interest companies) to those forged
 across disciplines, and with international and national partners across the HE sector, for example:


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   International level: The Waterloo Foundation (Bidgood), The Shakespeare Institute, The
        Shakespeare Birthplace Trust and German Shakespeare Society (Nigri) and Narrative 4
        (Savill)

    •   National level: The Dogs Trust (Bidgood), The Shaw Trust, Leonard Cheshire Foundation,
        and Disability Rights UK (Hurley), arthur+martha (Thurston), Innovations in Dementia and
        Dementia Diaries (Wilson)

    •   Regional and local level: The Seashell Trust (Bidgood), Leeds Young Authors, Verse
        Matters, Arts on the Run, ASSIST Sheffield and Pathway Arts (Munslow Ong), Greater
        Manchester Community Cohesion Forum (Savill), Working Class Library (Scott), National
        Poetry Library in Manchester (Thurston) and Six Degrees (Wilson).

 Public engagement initiatives have also been instrumental in our collaborations. For example,
 Magennis has organised two public events with the Irish World Heritage Centre: ‘#Agreement20’
 (2019) and ‘Manchester Bomb Event’ (2016), which were key to her impact activities (REF3).

 Collaborative writing relationships have been established with scholars from a range of
 international and UK universities including York St. John (Hurley with Pleasance), MMU (Kilby
 with Rowland), KCL (Magennis with Legg), Kent (Munslow Ong with Whittle), Edge Hill
 (Thurston with Karkou) and Brunel (White with Tew).

 Contribution to the research base

 ELLCP researchers have been prominent in the organisation of, and attendance at, international
 and national conferences and symposia. We have supported the organisation and delivery of the
 work of learned journals and professional organisations. Our expertise has been sought by our
 peers to deliver invited talks, review proposals for – and the products of – research and
 strategically develop postgraduate research education.

 Via conference, symposia and seminar organisation, ELLCP members have organised a range of
 events, which include: ‘Northern Irish Comedy’ (Magennis, as part of Nations and Regions Media
 Festival); ‘Repeal the Eighth’ (Magennis, as part of Manchester Literature Festival); a series of 1-
 day events exploring Postcolonial Studies and Human Rights (held at and in association with
 Sheffield and Sheffield Hallam); Postcolonial Studies and Education (held at and in association
 with Leeds and Leeds Metropolitan); and Postcolonial Studies and Food (held at and in association
 with York St. John) (Munslow Ong); ‘Documenting Comedy Symposium’ at BBC Quays House,
 Salford Quays with award-winning producer Adam Tandy (The Thick of It, Detectorists, Inside
 Number 9) as key speaker (White).

 Notable, recent successes include:

    •   English: Shared Futures, the largest academic event for literature, language and creative
        writing scholars, PGRs and teachers (Magennis and Thurston, with colleagues from
        Manchester and MMU, postponed until June 2021 but presence established in June 2020
        with online events and interviews, including Thurston on writing poetry in lockdown)

    •   Northern Irish Women’s Writing (2016) (Magennis, funded by the Government of Ireland)
        was held virtually and streamed as a publicly accessible talks (with Magennis interviewing
        novelists Rosemary Jenkinson and Lucy Caldwell).

 As Research Lead, Thurston, in consultation with all ELLCP researchers at Salford, has hosted
 a total of 30 in-house seminars, covering subjects as diverse as migration and identity,
 onomastics, poetry and environment, multimedia performance strategies, identity and language,
 women’s experimental writing, global literature and the environment, violence in fiction, translation,
 lockdown and the politics of creative practice, mapping literary landscapes and interracial love in
 literature from South Africa and Zimbabwe. The seminar contributes to the wider community by

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 offering feedback to visiting researchers (often on work in progress) and by fostering mutually
 beneficial collaborative links. Visiting speakers from the UK and overseas have participated,
 including Jo Angouri (Warwick), Felicity Deamer (Edinburgh), Alec Finlay (poet), Robert Hampson
 (Royal Holloway), Adrian Howe (Griffith University, Australia), Simon Kovesi (Oxford Brookes),
 Kaye Mitchell (Manchester), Sanja Nivesjö (Uppsala University, Sweden), Petra Rau (UEA),
 Mamta Sagar (Shristi Institute, Bengaluru, India), Andrew van der Vlies (Adelaide, Australia).

 Via keynote addresses and invited talks: ELLCP researchers have given c.200 talks at national
 and international universities and events, including: Brabants International Kinder Festival
 (Bidgood), Emory and Leuven (Hurley and Naray-Davey), Cambridge and Amsterdam
 (Kendall), Cyprus, Ghent, and Lisbon (Kilby), John Hewitt Summer School and Institute of
 English Studies (Magennis), Rhodes University and Amazwi South African Museum of Literature
 (Munslow Ong), Roma Tre and Zarqa University, Jordan (Nigri), N4 Summit, Fargo (Savill),
 CUNY (Thurston) and Oxford (White).

 Via editorial services: ELLCP researchers serve in 13 editorial positions in national and
 international standard academic journals in the field and book publishing series, including Allan
 as Executive Editor of Clues: A Journal of Detection; and member of the Advisory Board for the
 Wilkie Collins Journal; Hurley is Editorial Director of Erbacce Press and Founding Editorial Board
 member of Short Fiction in Theory and Practice (Intellect); Kendall is Essays, Reviews and
 Bilingual Haiku Editor of Presence Haiku Journal; Kilby is Editorial Board Member of The Journal
 of Literature and Trauma Studies and Studies in Testimony; Magennis is Editorial Board Member
 of Irish Studies Review and Irish Studies in Europe; Scott is Editorial Board Member for Names:
 Journal of American Name Society and Onoma: Journal of the International Council of Onomastic
 Sciences, Scottish Language; and Journal of Scottish Name Studies; Thurston is Founding Editor
 of Journal of British and Irish Innovative Poetry; Wilson is Associate Editor for the IPrA
 Bibliography of Pragmatics online.

 ELLCP researchers have (co-) edited 7 special issues in the REF period in journals as diverse as
 Sociological Review (Kilby); C21 Literature: Journal of 21st-Century Writings (Magennis) and
 Journal of Commonwealth Literature (Munslow Ong), American Notes and Queries on John
 Webster (Nigri and Bergstrom); Collegium (Scott); The Journal of Politeness (Wilson).

 Via presence on funding committees and as competition judges: Commonword
 Memoir/Autobiographical Writing Competition and Erbacce International Poetry, which attracts
 over 8,000 international entries per year (Hurley); Cinnamon Press International Poetry
 Competition (Kendall); British Association for Contemporary Literary Studies and British
 Association for Irish Studies (Magennis); and NWCDTP (Munslow Ong, Nigri, Thurston).

 Via professional association and network leadership and presence: Staff have provided important
 services to a range of professional associations in the field. Examples include: European Network
 for Short Fiction Research (Hurley), AHRC Connected Communities Research Group (Hurley);
 Northwest Poetry and Poetics Network (Kendall, founding member); Chair of British Association
 of Irish Studies (Magennis), English Association Higher Education Committee (2014-2018,
 Magennis); Northern Postcolonial Network (Munslow Ong, co-founder); Christine Brooke-Rose
 Society (White, founding member); and International Pragmatic Association and International
 Society for Gesture Studies (Wilson).

 Via review work for publishers: 17 book manuscript and book proposal reviews have been carried
 out for both leading academic publishers and small creative presses. Examples include:
 Continuum (Hurley); Liverpool University Press (Kendall); Routledge (Kilby); Ashgate
 (Magennis); Bloomsbury (Munslow Ong); Manchester University Press (Thurston); and
 Palgrave (White).

 Via review work for journals: ELLCP scholars have made an important contribution to the scholarly
 peer review process across the Unit’s subject fields. They have undertaken peer reviews in 40
 publications as diverse as Journal of Public Mental Health (Hurley), Glossa: A Journal of General

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Linguistics (Kechagias), Perspectives: Studies in Translation Theory and Practice (Kendall),
 Contemporary Women’s Writing (Kilby), Canadian Journal of Irish Studies (Magennis), Journal
 of Postcolonial Writing (Munslow Ong), Education Sciences (Naray-Davey), American Notes and
 Queries (Nigri), Scottish Language (Scott), C21 (Thurston), Clues: A Journal of Detection
 (White) and Applied Linguistics (Wilson).

 Service to the PGR community
 Unit researchers have externally examined c.20 doctoral theses in the current cycle, while more
 broadly Hurley sits on the AHRC NWCDTP Strategy board and is a member of both Vitae and UK
 Council for Graduate Education (in her capacity as Director of the Doctoral School). She has also
 delivered a paper at the 1st International Conference on the Mental Health & Wellbeing of
 Postgraduate Researchers (‘Fail again, fail better: Celebrating failure as a wellbeing intervention
 for postgraduate researchers’) and organised ‘Failure Friday’ (free public conference exploring
 resilience for PGRs as part of Salford’s Festival of Research). Kilby, Magennis, Munslow Ong,
 Nigri and Thurston have taken active roles in the administration of the AHRC NWCDTP.

 Contribution to economy and society through a culture of creative practice and publishing

 ELLCP researchers have been prominent in organising and attending poetry events, theatre
 productions and art exhibitions. We have supported the organisation and delivery of the work of
 creative presses and magazines, as well as creative organisations. Our creative practice has been
 sought with invitations for public performances and displays, for example, ‘The Other Room’, a
 bimonthly innovative poetry reading series in Manchester, run by Thurston from 2008 to 2018.
 This included 281 performers and an estimated 2,300 audience members, resulting in 1,000
 anthology pages uploaded to the still active website, 3,400 website posts, 7,450 YouTube hits,
 and over 300,000 website visitors.

 Kendall has been active in community cultural organisations, supporting activities for The Yorks-
 Lancs Haiku Circle, including monthly poetry meetings and the production of a newsletter. She
 also has haiku on public display as street art in Todmorden, Yorkshire. Thurston has performed
 at festivals both internationally and within the Greater Manchester area: at the annual Jazz Festival
 at the Cité Internationale Universite de Paris with dancer Sarie Mairs Slee and musician Pierre
 Levy; Startelpa Performance Art Festival, Riga, Latvia; Greater Manchester Fringe Festival; and
 Drift Festival, The Lowry, Salford Quays (with Slee).

 CP researchers have been invited to give readings at wide range of national and international
 events, including Bath Literature Festival; Ayewrite Literature Festival; Wilderness Festival; Oxford
 Literary Festival; Vanguard Readings, London; Festival de Premier Roman, Chambery, France
 and WARM festival (Savill); and in Berlin, New York, London, and, online, in Bengaluru, India
 (Thurston).

 Communication of, and access to, critical and creative research (to secure both contribution
 and ongoing collaboration opportunities)

 ELLCP researchers have engaged with a range of media, including Thurston, who featured on
 BBC Radio 3’s The Verb podcast in 2015 and appeared on The Verb programme in 2017
 alongside PGR student Nathan Walker, and Magennis, who has written for The Conversation on
 Irish Fiction and Derry Girls (reprinted in the Independent), Prospect Magazine, and The Irish
 Times. Since 2020, she has run a YouTube channel featuring recent interviews and a Writing in
 Lockdown events with poets and novelists. She is an active blogger and manages a number of
 social media accounts.

 In keeping with the University’s Open Access Policy, all Unit members communicate their research
 as openly as possible. To this end, staff have deposited 125 items in USIR (the University’s open
 access repository), which have been downloaded 30,000 times. Staff also publicly communicate
 and promote their outputs through ResearchGate, academia.edu and individual WordPress sites,
 resulting in c.10,000 additional downloads.

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff within the submission have actively embraced an open research culture within the University
 and beyond. For example, Magennis is Section Editor for Open Library of the Humanities journal,
 and she was member of the Open Access Policy Review Working Group (2017-18). She also
 delivered Open Access for Community Engagement training as part of the University-wide Open
 Access Week in October 2017. Thurston is a Founder and Editor of the Journal of British and
 Irish Innovative Poetry and, since moving to an OA publishing model in 2015, has increased
 readership by 200%.




                                                                                           Page 15
