Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Anglia Ruskin University

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 21 Sociology

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and Structure
 The Sociology UoA at Anglia Ruskin University (ARU) comprises thirteen researchers (FTE 13)
 based in the School of Humanities and Social Sciences (HSS) (FTE 10) and our Research
 Institute, the Policing Institute for the Eastern Region (PIER) (FTE 3), all located in the Faculty of
 Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences (FAHSS). Eleven are permanently employed, 2 as
 Readers (now Associate Professors), 1 as Principal Lecturer, 7 as Senior Lecturers, 1 as
 Lecturer. One Senior Research and 1 Research Fellow are employed on fixed-term contacts
 with secured future funding.

 We are an energetic and fast-developing unit which embraces our University’s strategic
 commitment to original, rigorous, and significant research that serves the community and leads
 to change in policy, procedure, and practice. Our vitality rests on regional, national, and
 international collaborations with a diverse range of partners. At the heart of these collaborations
 is our commitment to applying sociology and criminology to tackle social challenges.

 Our REF2021 submission reflects long-term growth in staff driven by successful undergraduate
 and postgraduate courses and sustained improvement in the quality and quantity of outputs, in
 research (increasingly externally funded research), in postgraduate research student
 completions, and in our engagement with, and impact on, wider communities of social scientists
 and stakeholders. The success of the unit was recognised in the ARU Research and Innovation
 Strategy 2018-22 which identified marginalised groups and communities as a priority research
 area. The University’s strategic decision to establish PIER in 2016 with a mission to produce
 impactful, collaborative research on issues pertaining to contemporary policing, and a
 restructure in 2018 that brought researchers from other Faculties into HSS, further consolidated
 critical mass and our commonality of themes and approaches.

 The Head of HSS and Research Co-ordinator have been in post for 15 years; this stability has
 enabled a consistent approach to the growth of research, founded on developing the careers of
 current staff and appointing new colleagues with excellent research and impact potential. While
 connections between staff interests were initially serendipitous, we have established greater
 coherence, consolidating around core sociological and criminological questions at annual
 Research Awaydays and via reading and writing groups:
     • ‘Race’, hybridity, belonging and citizenship
     • The role of marginalisation, life-cycles and morality in forms of, and attempts to combat,
         interpersonal violence
     • The criminal justice system in practice, particularly the trial process and the realities of
         risk and public protection
     • Emerging and evolving types of crime and policing.

 Much of our work is empirically informed, taking a variety of mixed and qualitative approaches
 (including ethnography). Our innovation in methods is evident in our impact case studies, one
 pioneered the technique of court observation and one utilised a novel approach to understand
 the dynamics of interagency working.

 Research and Impact Strategy
 Our 2014–2020 UoA strategy was developed in regular research meetings and annual
 awaydays and overseen by the Research Co-ordinator. It focused on increasing the number of
 research-active staff; the development of staff, many of whom are relatively early in their
 careers; improving the quality and quantity of research outputs; increasing external bidding and


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 income; increasing the number of doctoral completions; realising and capturing the impact of
 research projects; and increasing our engagement with research networks and the wider world.

 As later sections detail, we successfully realised our aims, having:
     • Grown from seven staff (FTE 5.2) entered in REF2014 (submitted to Law, and
         Communications, Cultural and Media Studies) to thirteen (FTE 13) in REF2021
     • Developed early career researchers to the extent that they have contributed impact case
         studies and double-weighted, sole-authored monographs to REF2021
     • Increased the percentage of staff outputs published in world-class (Q1) journals and as
         research monographs (by reputable publishers) so that while REF2014 outputs included
         2 monographs and 6 articles published in Q1 journals, in REF2021 this increased to 5
         monographs and 10 articles published in Q1 journals
     • Doubled PhD completions from 6 in the previous cycle to 12 in the current cycle
     • Increased external income ten-fold and bidding for external income five-fold
     • Produced a substantial body of impactful research.

 We have been supported by University- and Faculty-level strategy, notably:
    • Establishing PIER as a cross-University Institute rooted in the expertise and research
       output of HSS staff, supported by a strategic investment by ARU’s Research Institute
       Fund of £200,000 per annum between 2016 and 2021
    • Prioritising a Sociology submission to REF2021 through deployment of ring-fenced QR
       funds to support outputs, impact, and participation in wider research networks
    • Ensuring that all 7 staff recruited since 2014 had a doctorate on joining ARU
    • Providing improved support for PGR students including 4 fully funded Vice Chancellor’s
       PhD Scholarships
    • Providing improved infrastructure for external income generation
    • Supporting research impact through a raft of measures detailed below.

 Future Strategic Aims
 In summer 2020 we held an online UoA strategy planning meeting for 2021–2026, attended by
 HSS staff, with the aim of further developing a coherent research and impact grouping. A PIER
 strategic planning awayday 2020 included social science representation to align strategic
 objectives. Subsequent unit research meetings have developed the strategy in conjunction with
 the Head of School, Deputy Dean (Research and Innovation) and Deputy Vice Chancellor
 (Research and Innovation). We have consolidated our shared interests through the formation of
 two clusters in HSS.
     • Exclusion, Transgression and Morality: This will bring together the work of Guha and
         Ibrahim on social and political marginalisation with the work of Boakye, Markovska,
         Ryder and Trivedi-Bateman on the role of morality and moral emotions in relation to
         suicide, interpersonal violence, corruption and substance-misuse.
     • Technologies of Crime, Policing and Surveillance: This will bring together the work of
         Kemp, Lundrigan, Mann, Rosbrook-Thompson and Skinner.

 The clusters allow further alignment of PIER and other elements of HSS and a planned,
 collaborative approach to bidding and research and knowledge exchange and a more systematic
 approach to links with external partners, drawing together community-focused and outreach
 work. PIER plans to build on its national reputation for the investigation and prevention of child
 sexual abuse whilst developing other kinds of applied policing research. It will pursue these
 objectives alongside its ongoing mission to drive research, innovation, and impact at the heart of
 the ARU priority research theme of Safe and Inclusive Communities. HSS researchers will also
 play a leading role in two newly established Faculty-wide Research Groups, which will address
 the themes of Communities and Migration.

 Our strategy will continue to focus on increasing the number of staff with significant responsibility
 for research and the development of early to mid-career researchers. Given the strength of the
 strategic partnerships it has established, significant recent additional investment from the Dawes

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Trust (totalling £860,000), and the on-going national acceptance of the importance of evidence-
 based policing policy and practice, we anticipate growth in the PIER staff base. Despite the
 current challenging context, we also anticipate growth in the number of lecturers from 2021 in
 part because of ARU’s pre-eminent position in providing policing education in the region at all
 levels from degree apprenticeship to doctorate. Some new colleagues delivering these
 programmes will come from practitioner backgrounds and we will develop their research and
 impact generation potential, supporting them to gain doctoral awards and integrating them into
 collaborative projects and PhD supervision with more experienced researchers.

 Impact Achievement and Enhancement
 PIER has a specific mission as a centre of excellence for collaborative research, aligned with
 priorities of the police and partner agencies. In addition, colleagues in HSS work with regional,
 and international partners: Trivedi-Bateman has worked for 10 years on youth crime as part of
 the Peterborough Adolescent and Young Adult Development Study (PADS+); Rosbrook-
 Thompson has conducted an in-depth evaluation of Islington Borough Council's (multi-agency)
 Integrated Gangs Team (IGT); Boakye has advised on the death penalty in Ghana; Guha works
 with gender violence and sex-worker charities in India and UK; and Ibrahim worked with the
 NGO Tostan International in Senegal and West Africa on grassroots-led initiatives to tackle
 poverty.

 These and other longstanding partnerships are supported by close working with the RIDO-based
 Faculty Partnership Development Manager, the University Research Impact Co-ordinator and
 the two Faculty Impact Support Managers. The unit has benefited from Faculty Impact
 Development Days. Training has also been delivered by RAND Europe and an external REF
 consultant. Impact Case Study Days have included writing workshops, sessions on boosting the
 social media presence of researchers and their work, measurement and data gathering, and
 explorations of different types of impact. Increasingly, our contribution emerges out of a planned
 and explicit strategy of knowledge exchange. Since 2019 our Faculty has made all QR funding
 of projects conditional on them having clear potential impact.

 Interdisciplinarity
 Fundamental to ARU’s strategic investment in research institutes located outside of individual
 Schools is a commitment to them as agents and sharers of good practice in problem-focused,
 interdisciplinary research. Unit members already enact this vision, through PIER and other
 University Institutes (for example Skinner’s collaboration with the Global Sustainability Institute).
 Kemp works with colleagues in the Faculty of Science and Engineering on a Home Office funded
 project on cyber-crime, bringing together the findings of social scientific research with cutting-
 edge technological expertise. Problem-focused collaborations also foster creativity in the
 adaptation of approaches across disciplinary boundaries: a striking example of this is work in
 PIER in collaboration with astrophysicists at the University of Manchester applying their
 mathematical techniques to analyse patterns of offending.

 Interdisciplinarity is fostered through the Faculty annual conference and seminar series which
 brings together colleagues from different approaches on an open-call basis. Since 2019, the
 University VC PhD Scholarships have required interdisciplinary supervisory teams and projects
 that foster cross-institutional collaborations. HSS researchers play an active role in two newly
 established Faculty-level research groupings, addressed to the themes of Communities and
 Migration. These will initially promote internal knowledge exchange, offer opportunities for
 dissemination via seminars and workshops, and foster collaborative bids for VC PhD
 Scholarships.

 Open Access
 The University has an Open Access Policy and has steadily increased the amount it makes
 available to support publication from £70,000 in 2013-14 to £100,000 in 2018-19. The unit has
 benefitted from this fund with Ibrahim, Lundrigan and Rosbrook-Thompson having outputs
 supported. This has allowed the widest possible readership for outputs of clear and topical
 interest beyond academia, for example Ibrahim’s 2020 online first article reporting the first

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 results of a ten-year longitudinal study of well-being amongst the poor in Egypt. Green Open
 Access is facilitated by ARU Research Online (ARRO), ARU’s institutional repository launched in
 June 2010. Where permissions allow, ARRO provides free and open access to the scholarly
 outputs of staff from across the University. Since 2014, members of the unit have deposited 76
 research outputs, of which 43 are currently fully accessible. Beyond ARU, Rosbrook-Thompson
 is Assistant Editor of the open-access journal Urbanities.

 Research Integrity
 ARU’s policy and procedures on research integrity are outlined in the Institutional Environment
 Statement and supplemented by the Guide to Good Research Practice. All University guidance
 and practice are based on the Concordats for Research Integrity and Researcher Development.
 Given the sensitive nature of some of the work in the unit and our emphasis on collaboration
 within and beyond academia, advice on data sharing is particularly important. The University
 Information Compliance Manager offers expert advice on privacy and data protection and
 University IT policies. Online surveys, whether for research or impact projects, for example, are
 required to be run through JISC Online Surveys which complies with data protection regulations.

 New members of staff complete mandatory research integrity training as part of probation.
 Postgraduate researchers also receive training in this area as part of the Postgraduate
 Researcher Development Programme. The University requires that all staff regularly update their
 Research Ethics and Data Protection training. All research proposals, whether submitted by
 staff or PGR students, are approved through the School and, as relevant, Faculty Research
 Ethics Panel and University Research Ethics Committee. This process involves a significant
 element of peer-review which draws colleagues of varied levels and types of experience into
 dialogue and as such is itself an important element of training and development.

 Unit members play a leading role in research ethics policy at Faculty and University level.
 Boakye Chairs the Faculty Research Ethics Panel (FREP). He organises and delivers regular
 ethics training for staff and works closely with the Director of Research Students to ensure that
 PGR students are compliant with ARU requirements. He coordinates and provides guidance to
 the three School Research Ethics Panels (SREPs), represents AHSS on the University
 Research Ethics Committee and also sits on the Faculty Research and Innovation Committee.
 Todd, who leads ARU’s partnership with Cambridge Theological Federation, provides expertise
 on the ethical dimensions of professional doctorates and is a member of both HSS SREP and
 AHSS FREP.

 Our research often presents ethical challenges and we have been able to feed back our lessons
 into the wider academic community within and beyond ARU. Projects by Trivedi-Bateman,
 Smith, Kemp, Guha, and Boakye have yielded insights into researching ‘hard to reach’ or
 vulnerable populations, disseminated via publication and mechanisms such as the University’s
 Research & Innovation Committee. Researchers in PIER have acquired a wealth of experience
 of navigating external ethics panels (for example, in the Home Office and the Prison Service).
 Lundrigan and Mann’s work on the management of sex offenders has presented particular
 challenges, given both the sensitivity of the populations (including violent offenders and their
 families) and the requirement to develop Data Management Plans to enable collaborative
 working with other agencies.

 2. People

 Staffing and Staff Development Strategy
 We have ensured that new staff fit with our research priorities through the job specification and
 appointment process. Seven of the 13 staff submitted to REF2021 were recruited during the
 current REF cycle, 6 as early career researchers (ECRs) with doctoral qualifications.

 School policy is to appoint on a permanent basis. Fixed-term contracts are sometimes
 connected to research bids, but the unit converts posts into permanent ones at the earliest
 opportunity and has done so in 2 cases. Staff with fixed-term contracts access the support and

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funding afforded to permanent staff and have the same opportunities in terms of training,
 development, mentorship and support for research and impact.

 We have developed in-post staff to enhance our research and impact work. Five staff submitted
 to REF2014 have submitted again in 2021, while 2 retired. Three staff submitted to REF2014
 and 5 others have been promoted during the current cycle. Lundrigan was appointed as Director
 of PIER in 2016 and Mann seconded as a Senior Research Fellow and her fractional post raised
 from 0.2 to 1.0. In both cases they have since focused on research, impact, income generation
 and postgraduate supervision.

 Our success at developing staff is also evident in the 3 former colleagues who have gained
 promotions at research-intensive universities, after having joined us as ECRs and significantly
 enhanced their research profile and impact with our support (Cooper, D. Smith, and O. Smith). In
 line with our growth strategy and our commitment to developing ECRs, these colleagues were
 replaced, and staffing has been further supplemented with new appointments.

 The Faculty Research and Innovation Committee (FRIC) oversees research and impact
 activities and resources. Heads of School work with School Research Co-ordinators in
 conjunction with the School Research Ethics Panel and REF unit convenors. UoA21 has two
 convenors (Skinner and Rosbrook-Thompson) at different career stages; indicative of our
 investment in developing future research leadership. Convenors mentor colleagues in research
 publication strategies, bid-writing, and doctoral supervision. Research and impact in the unit are
 supported by the annual Faculty Research Conference and research seminars at Faculty and
 School level.

 Following probation, all staff have opportunities for annual grading review and applications are
 assessed via an independent panel in line with published criteria. There is also a clear promotion
 path for research-only staff through the established grades of Research Fellow, Senior Research
 Fellow, and Principal Research Fellow. We plan to grow the numbers of Professors and Readers
 (now Associate Professors) from the existing staff group. Aspiring Readers (now Associate
 Professors) and Professors attend workshops run by ARU’s Human Resources Team; this is
 followed by a planning meeting with their line manager, the Head of School and the Deputy
 Dean (Research and Innovation). Staff are provided with a mentor, usually an existing Professor
 from outside the immediate subject area.

 All staff undertake a line-manager collaborative appraisal scheme, which incorporates an
 Individual Research Report (IRR) that outlines achievements, delivered objectives, and future
 action planning in relation to outputs, bidding and supervision. The appraisal system is linked to
 the University’s Annual Workload Balancing Model (AWBM); it requires discussion of research
 planning over the coming year and the setting and review of longer-term individual objectives.
 This system has recently been refined to ensure all planned research has a clear pathway to
 impact and contributes to thematic priorities.

 Staff development is supported by a University Researcher Development Programme which
 aligns with the Vitae Researcher Development Framework. The unit supplements University and
 Faculty provision by running its own development sessions. Awaydays combine training with
 periods of writing and feedback sessions on work in progress. Our external REF consultant
 evaluates the quality of research outputs and has facilitated annual training workshops. An
 important feature of these sessions has been developmental group and one-to-one feedback on
 draft outputs. ECRs have benefitted in particular from Writing Days and Retreats organised by
 Research Conveners at unit and Faculty level which allow discussion and review of outputs,
 book proposals and grant applications. These events proved important milestones in the
 development of PhD theses into published monographs (O. Smith and Orofino) and successful
 grant applications (Cooper and Kemp).

 Staff and unit development have been enhanced by strategic appointments of external experts
 into key advisory roles supporting the impact agenda. As Chair of PIER, Nick Alston (formerly

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Essex Police and Crime Commissioner 2012-2016) has helped the unit develop its profile and
 professional networks. The unit has also facilitated exchanges between academics and
 business, public and third sector bodies by appointing Visiting Fellowships to practitioners
 including Kelly Aguledo (Senior Intelligence Manager Metropolitan Police), Tom Farrall (Norfolk
 and Suffolk Constabulary specialist in online crime investigation currently seconded to the Home
 Office), and Chris Bradford (District Commander Essex Police).

 ECRs/New Staff
 The University provides support for new staff during the probation period, including a reduced
 teaching load (usually of no more than 6 hours per week) and research related CPD activities.
 The revised Early Career Researcher Charter (2019) has extended the period of ECR support
 from 3 to 5 years. Additional to the general opportunities provided by the Faculty, ECRs receive:
     • A £2,000 research account
     • An allowance of 200 hours for research in their AWBM and at least 500 hours twice over
         their 5-year period
     • A research mentor allocated during induction to support their Continuing Professional
         Development (CPD).

 ECRs contribute significantly to the culture of research across our unit and University. In addition
 to the Charter requirements, we ensure ECRs gain opportunities in research management. They
 are represented on our Research and Innovation Committees at University and Faculty level,
 and on Annual Review Monitoring panels for PGR students. Our practice of having supervisory
 teams of three staff allows us to include ECRs to develop their experience of postgraduate
 supervision.

 Support for Research and Impact
 In line with Designing Our Future 2017-2026, staff with significant research responsibilities are
 allocated at least one day of protected research time per week and between 200-500 hours for
 research on their AWBM. Staff are allocated additional time (a further 300 hours) on a case-by-
 case basis relating to the strategic objective of developing research impact.

 Time for research and impact activities is also available through the University Sabbatical
 Scheme which supports 15 weeks' research leave (every four years) with funding of £10,000.
 Unit staff have won 12 sabbaticals in the REF period and this has significantly enhanced our
 capacity to generate high-quality outputs. These have facilitated the completion of research
 monographs (O. Smith, D. Smith and Rosbrook-Thompson) and articles in Q1 journals (Skinner,
 Lundrigan, Cooper). Two colleagues gained sabbaticals to complete PhDs, enabling them to be
 independent researchers in the next REF cycle.

 Colleagues access QR funding to develop research and impact via a central Faculty budget with
 twice yearly calls for bids. The average award is £600 per person (as per the terms of calls) but
 more is available. Impact-active colleagues receive additional funds. Awards support teaching
 buyout, research assistance, and the purchase of equipment. The HSS Staff Development
 Budget also supports research related development with a baseline budget of £250 per person
 and with an average award of £700 and has normally allowed all colleagues who requested to
 participate in at least one academic conference or training per year.

 The ARU Undergraduate Researcher Scheme is a competitive paid internship that supports
 students to engage in research and impact projects undertaken by staff. Ten staff and 14
 students from this unit have benefitted from the scheme.

 Research Students
 The unit currently has 23 PhD students. The unit has doubled its completions since REF2014
 with 12 PhD completions in the current cycle, compared with 6 in REF2014. Four completions
 were international students. The unit also provides leadership to the Cambridge Theological
 Federation (CTF) whose PhD and Professional Doctorate awards are validated by ARU. Unit


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 staff supervised 6 Professional Doctorate completions during the current cycle out of a total of
 27 CTF completions during this period (see table).

   Table 1: Doctoral degrees from REF4a disaggregated between PhD and Prof Docs awarded
          Year             Doctoral Degrees       PhDs Awarded       Prof Docs Awarded
                                Awarded
        2013-14                     1                    0                    1
        2014-15                     2                    2                    0
        2015-16                     2                    1                    1
        2016-17                     0                    0                    0
        2017-18                     4                    4                    0
        2018-19                     1                    1                    0
        2019-20                     8                    4                    4
          Total                    18                   12                    6

 PGRS Recruitment, Support and Monitoring
 Success has been achieved through a strategy of development and sustainability at University
 and unit level entailing:
    • financial support to applicants offered through competitive schemes
    • growing supervisory capacity and strengthening supervisory teams
    • improved support infrastructures and monitoring of progression
    • increasing the number of single and group supervisions
    • a supportive and non-hierarchical research culture.

 We have improved recruitment by raising the research profile of staff and offering financial
 support for suitable students. We have improved the recruitment process by triaging applications
 before inviting candidates to an interview in which two or more colleagues are involved, ensuring
 transparency and reflecting the commitment a PhD requires from all parties.

 The Vice Chancellor’s PhD Studentships are awarded via potential supervisors through a
 competitive internal process before opportunities are externally advertised to potential students.
 The scheme supports outstanding students to develop excellent, interdisciplinary projects that
 align with ARU’s priority research areas. It provides a full fee-waiver and AHRC-equivalent
 bursary. Four full-time PGR students are now based in PIER funded by this scheme while a fifth
 student is supported on the same terms by a College of Policing Scholarship.

 We plan to put this model of full-time students, competitively recruited and engaged on projects
 that link to staff and the University’s priorities, at the heart of our approach in the next REF cycle.
 In this we will be aided by the development of Faculty research clusters in migration and
 communities that are intended as homes for future VC Scholarships. Moreover, the University
 has agreed to fund, jointly with the Dawes Trust, eight further PhD studentships based in PIER
 between 2021 and 2027.

 In the REF2021 cycle, two PhD completions benefitted from HSS QR-funded full fee waivers
 and bursaries. Another was provided with a fee waiver via the Faculty Staff Development Fund.
 Two others received £2,204 in partial fee waivers and support during their final writing up stage.
 All PGR students are entitled to £500 over the course of their study towards research expenses.
 This has usually contributed to conference attendance costs, but has also supported field work,
 archival access and data collection. PGR students benefit from the use of a dedicated room in
 the Faculty and a University dedicated PGRS space, each with computers, catering facilities and
 a social area.

 The University requires that all students have at least two supervisors with the First Supervisor
 having previously supervised to completion. The unit policy is to add a third supervisor; this
 widens team expertise and also grows staff supervisory experience. During the REF cycle, we
 increased the number of staff who have supervised to completion by 5.

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Students maintain a Personal Development Plan which is considered as part of their annual
 review. They meet supervisors at least monthly, and within their full supervisory teams twice a
 year. Under Covid-19 arrangements, supervisors met with PGRs fortnightly to provide additional
 support. Annual monitoring reviews are undertaken by two Faculty colleagues independently of
 the supervisory team and provide open, peer-review discussion and feedback. This mechanism
 supports timely completion and acts as a rehearsal for viva voce examinations.

 PGR Career Development
 We develop our PGR students via:
   • Postgraduate research seminars in which students present and discuss their work
   • The opportunity to observe modules from our MA programmes including Postgraduate
       Research Methods
   • Masterclasses in relevant skills, such as NVIVO qualitative data analysis, digital
       methods, and interviewing
   • Funding, where appropriate, for participation in specialist research methods training.

 Students disseminate their research and impact activities through the annual University and
 Faculty PGR Conferences. Students also attend and contribute to the Faculty Research seminar
 series, the PIER seminar series, and the PIER Annual Conference. Our students organise and
 present at national conferences and participate in learned societies and discipline networks: for
 example, O’Reilly convenes the British Criminological Society PGR network (2018-present). In
 2018 we hosted a week-long residential Summer School in conjunction with the International
 Urban Symposium (IUS) attended by 15 visiting doctoral students from 11 countries, with ARU
 students attending free of charge. The event was combined with a research symposium with
 speakers from Greece, India, Italy, Poland and USA oriented around urban ethnography. It
 covered a range of sessions on theoretical and methodological debates and included learning
 walks and field trips.

 We prepare our PGR students for employment within and beyond academia in a variety of ways.
 We offer paid teaching opportunities following a full programme of training and with on-going
 support. PGRs can work on live, impactful projects as research assistants while completing their
 PhD studies. For example, O’Reilly worked with Skinner on a project for Essex Police which
 explored the relationship between policing, social media and community engagement, while Daly
 and Herriott worked with O. Smith to produce a research brief on the Criminal Injuries
 Compensation Scheme. PGRs are also supported in the promotion of aspects of their work with
 clear pathways to impact. Parsons’ research on the emotional management of organ transfer
 has influenced how Transplant UK approaches the management of organ donation. The findings
 of O’Reilly’s PhD research have been integrated into revised guidance given to neighbourhood
 police officers across the Metropolitan Police. In 2019 Pandey won the Ruskin Medal for Student
 Research awarded annually by ARU to the candidate whose doctoral research is deemed the
 most impactful. Her research explored gender socialization and perceptions of culpability in the
 narratives of convicted violent offenders from Delhi Prison.

 The growth of PIER has facilitated a cohort of students working on applied problems (including
 rape trials, sex offending, parent abuse by adult children, the operation of police control rooms)
 in some cases in collaboration with potential users of the research (for example, the National
 Police Lead on Child Abuse).

 There is a clear boost to employability evident in the destinations of PGRs who have completed
 in this REF cycle. Four have since been appointed permanent Lecturers or Senior Lecturers at
 other UK universities, while another has contributed to the design of ARU’s police training
 programme. One international PhD has, following secondment, returned to his post as a lecturer
 at the University of Sindh and been promoted to Associate Professor. Another international PhD
 has been promoted to a senior role in the UAE police service.



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Equality and Diversity
 UoA Convenors and Co-Convenors receive mandatory diversity training relating to protected
 characteristics and ARU’s REF Code of Practice. Decisions relating to REF2021 have been
 made and communicated transparently. Of staff carrying significant responsibility for research, 8
 in the unit (61.5%) identify as female and 5 as male, in line with the overall staff composition
 across Sociology, Criminology and PIER. 23% of UoA staff identify as BAME, compared with
 13% across the wider staff group in those areas.

 The allocation of QR funds and Research Sabbaticals is through open processes of submission
 to Faculty and University panels. The University achieved a Bronze Athena Swan award in April
 2015, renewed in 2018; the submission for Faculty level award is led by a member of the unit.
 Unit members have contributed to University-level discussions about a diversified curriculum and
 better responses to sexual violence. The unit actively contributes to ARU’s efforts to reduce the
 BAME attainment gap, with Trivedi-Bateman the lead researcher for the AHSS Award Gap
 Working Group and conducting an in-depth analysis of historic attainment data. A planned
 qualitative study of BAME student experiences has been delayed by the pandemic. Other Unit
 members participate in University staff support networks for people with protected
 characteristics, notably the Black and Minority Ethnic Network. Boakye, for example, has
 contributed to university discussions about diversity and inclusivity and how to support
 international students during the pandemic.

 In the review period, 2 colleagues were supported with phased returns to work and part-time
 working hours after extended sick or parental leave. Returners from maternity leave have taken
 up Keeping in Touch Days, staged returns, and flexible working where necessary. We view
 support for childcare or child attendance related to conferences as a legitimate call on staff
 development funds. Under Covid arrangements, we have also supported flexible working for
 staff with childcare commitments. The university has recently piloted a scheme which provides
 funding for research assistance for those returning from parental and care leave to accelerate
 their activity.

 The Doctoral School also plays an important role in supporting PGR students with disabilities
 and are regularly consulted by Student Services to put bespoke support arrangements in place.
 PGRs requiring reasonable adjustments receive guidance about the support available including
 access to ARU’s Student Services counselling team.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Funding Infrastructure
 While we recognise the continuing importance of core funding (much of which underpins our
 research-led teaching), securing income is important to our plans for growth. Our strategy is to
 diversify income streams, ensuring bids are targeted at and appropriate to each staff member’s
 research profile and career stage. Policies at University, Faculty, and unit level aim to incentivise
 and support research grant bidding and income generation.

 In 2016 ARU launched the Research Funding Observatory (RFO) which provides events and
 seminars to support and develop the ARU research community, with a particular focus on the
 funding landscape, and is now incorporated within the ARU Staff Researcher Development
 Programme. These sessions, organised by the Research and Innovation Development Office
 (RIDO), draw on expertise from within the ARU academic community and from external
 organisations. Sessions include: How to find funding opportunities; Discover your research
 environment; Costing your proposal; Designing a successful proposal; The importance of
 Research Impact; Collaborative Proposals: Building Teams and Networks; Open Research:
 Sharing and Storing your Research; Impact through Knowledge Exchange; The Funder
 Selection Process: How Peer Review Works; Recycling Proposals and Dealing with Rejection;
 Communication and Public Engagement in Research; Post-award Project Management; Marie


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sklodowska-Curie Individual Fellowships; and research speed networking. Seven members of
 our unit attended sessions in 2016, 9 in 2017, 7 in 2018-19, and 6 in 2019-20.

 The Faculty has a Research and Innovation Funding Development Manager (FRIFDM) based in
 RIDO who provides advice and support on funding opportunities, arranges visits from funding
 bodies, works with colleagues to develop their bidding strategies, and provides detailed input
 into bid costings. RIDO also provides a Partnership Development Manager who works with
 academics on consultancy and knowledge exchange opportunities. This has led to considerable
 success in response to funding calls, notably projects with Cambridgeshire County Council
 (Kerss, £2.6k) and the Home Office (Kemp £59.2k).

 At unit level, new members of staff are given a research mentor whose brief includes
 consideration of income-generation strategies and the review and development of grant
 applications. Faculty internal funding calls act as a mechanism for developing competitive bids
 and providing feedback and guidance. They require colleagues to identify external funding
 sources for subsequent development of projects. Performance against internal funding awards is
 carefully monitored and expectations about winning external funding are set as part of annual
 appraisal. Faculty-level Bid-Writing Days (which run once per semester) and Writing Retreats
 (which run four times per semester) help colleagues to initiate new projects and to have more
 advanced proposals peer-reviewed. All external bids are reviewed by the Deputy Dean
 (Research and Innovation), who also ensures that applicants have taken the comments and
 suggestions made during peer review into account, before final versions are signed off by the
 Dean.

 Research Funding in Practice
 During 2014-2020 external research and impact funding to the unit has increased more than ten-
 fold to £258,202 compared with £23,386 in the previous REF cycle. This increase reflects
 successful implementation of our diversification strategy and the growth in our unit, with
 members of the unit submitting a total of 51 funding applications between September 2013 and
 December 2020 (compared with 10 between September 2008 and August 2013). With 6 grants
 secured from research councils (including the British Academy), 2 from national and local
 government agencies (Police, Fire and Crime Commissioner for Essex), and from charities
 (Dawes Trust) and NGOs (including Essex Rape Crisis and the Pandora Project), the
 composition of the unit’s research income is consistent with our commitment to engagement with
 community partners and other policy actors. A number of our funded projects are collaborative,
 including a series of international projects, funded by the British Academy and British Council led
 by Markovska involving Karazin National University, Ukraine.

 Infrastructure Supporting Research and Impact
 Research in the unit is supported by access to library resources and holdings which are strong in
 social sciences. ARU library’s 7,000+ social science journals include specialist sociology,
 policing and criminology-based resources such as Social Science Premium Collection, Sage
 Research Methods, and Westlaw. The library is particularly strong in its provision of electronic
 resources, thus supporting flexible work arrangements, with 74,000+ ejournals, 322,000+
 ebooks, 200+ databases including Scopus and Web of Science.

 All staff have reader access to Cambridge University Library, which, as a legal deposit library,
 offers access to all UK publications and also holds rare books and policy documents. Access to
 collections is supplemented by the proximity of Cambridge Centre for Science and Policy which
 facilitates access to researchers and policy makers across a wide range of areas relevant to the
 unit. ARU also has agreements in place with Cambridge Crown, County and Magistrates’ Courts
 for research involving court observation.

 PIER is strategically located on our Chelmsford campus to foster its partnerships with Essex
 Police and other agencies. HSS is based on our Cambridge campus where spaces which
 support research include the Ruskin Gallery; this exhibition space housed the multi-disciplinary
 research project 'Arriving: Objects and Discoveries' in which Guha participated in 2019, as part

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the Being Human Festival. The project used photographs and audio recordings of object-
 based encounters of younger and older people, who define themselves as migrants, to explore
 understandings of ‘arrival’.

 PIER benefits from an Advisory Board and Operational Board structure which brings external
 experts in the field of policing to ensure research and impact are relevant. Advisory Board
 members include Chief Constable Simon Bailey (Norfolk and Suffolk Police), Assistant Chief
 Constable Andy Prophet (Essex Police), Dr Natalie Benton (Head of Corporate Performance
 Cambridgeshire Police), Dr David Ho (Consultant Forensic Psychiatrist, Head of Research and
 Innovation – Essex Partnership University NHS Foundation Trust), and Nerys Thomas
 (Knowledge Research and Practice Lead – College of Policing). A Business Manager in PIER
 supports the organisation of events, partnership working and manages research and impact
 projects, dealing with partners and internal processes, enabling the academic staff to focus on
 research and impact.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration
 Colleagues in the unit have collaborated on research, publications and funding applications with
 academics based in the UK and further afield. UK-based collaborations include Rosbrook-
 Thompson’s work with colleagues at City University on gang policing, marginalised groups, and
 the criminal justice system in the London boroughs of Haringey and Islington. Other funded
 projects include ‘Exploring the Practicalities of Modern-Day Slavery’ (British Academy, £9.1k), a
 collaboration between Markovska and colleagues at the University of Manchester. Lundrigan led
 a £1.5 million funding bid to the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) that involved
 researchers from ARU, two other UK universities, police and third sector practitioners. While not
 ultimately successful, the bid was one of three that reached the final shortlist.

 A feature of our work is the number and long-term sustainability of our international
 collaborations. These include Boakye’s collaboration with colleagues from the University of
 Ghana (focusing on prisoner mental well-being and suicide), Markovska with academics at
 Karazin Kharkiv National University, Ukraine (on policing, corruption and migration), Guha with
 academics from the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, Jadavpur University, Kolkata and
 Rabindra Bharati University, Kolkata (as part of a project on gender inequalities in informal urban
 housing), and Lundrigan as Visiting Professor at Kharkiv National University of Internal Affairs,
 Ukraine. Cooper was Visiting Fellow (2018–2019) at The Institute for Human Sciences (IWM),
 Vienna as part of the Europe’s Futures Programme.

 The UoA has a strong track-record of partnership with non-academic stakeholders, including a
 range of charities and agencies operating at local and national level. Our strong relationship with
 Essex Police Service predates and continues alongside PIER activity. We are a contracted
 academic partner with Essex Police Service 2017-2021, committed to delivering a minimum of
 two projects a year that relate to their strategic objectives. These have included: cybercrime and
 digital forensics (Kemp); social media and community engagement (Skinner); the recruitment
 and retention of BAME police officers (Skinner and Constable); responses to hate crime (O.
 Smith); and community policing (O’Reilly). StoryLab (an interdisciplinary research institute
 dedicated to increasing creativity, accessibility and transparency in storytelling) has worked with
 officers in using a multi-modal approach (encompassing film, data visualisation, sound,
 photography, and digital media) to explore experiences of knife crime.

 We have strategically directed HSS staff development and Faculty QR funding to support
 participation in, and leadership of, academic conferences, professional/scholarly organisations
 and research networks. This has allowed our researchers to forge strong links within
 professional associations including the British Society of Criminology (BSC) and the British
 Sociological Association (BSA). O. Smith, for example, convened the BSA Violence Against
 Women Study Group. Ibrahim is Co-convenor of the Multidimensional Poverty Dynamics group


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the Development Studies Association and founder convenor of the Empowerment and
 Collective Capabilities thematic group in the Human Development and Capability Association.

 Our academics also play an active role in 10+ national and international research networks,
 helping to set the agenda for academic inquiry. These include the BSC’s Cybercrime Specialist
 Group (Kemp), the Domestic Abuse Research Network (Kerrs), the Environmental Criminology
 and Crime Analysis Group (Lundrigan), the European Network for Social Studies of Forensics
 (Skinner), the European Working Group on Organisational and White-Collar Crime (EUROC
 Markovska), the Cross-Border Crime Colloquium (Markovska), the International Urban
 Symposium (Rosbrook-Thompson), and the National Association for the Treatment of Abusers
 (Mann).

 Contribution to the Discipline
 During this REF cycle, colleagues have been members of Editorial Boards and/or Associate
 Editors for high-quality journals including International Criminology (Boakye), Investigative
 Psychology and Offender Profiling (Lundrigan), and Urbanities: Journal of Urban Ethnography
 (Rosbrook-Thompson). Skinner was elected to the Editorial Board of Sociology (2014 to 2020),
 During his term of office he conducted 70+ peer reviews, co-edited a special e-issue, contributed
 to events at the 2016 BSA Conference celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the journal, and co-
 organised the 2017 Sociology Across the Generations event hosted at ARU which brought
 together authors of recent and ‘classic’ articles from the journal. In 2018 he conducted a quality
 review of the entire 2017 volume with the Chair of the Editorial Board.

 UoA staff have peer reviewed articles for 40+ academic journals, including American
 Anthropologist; Biosocieties; British Journal of Sociology; Crime, Law and Social Change;
 Criminal Justice and Behavior; Global Affairs; International Journal of Comparative and Applied
 Criminal Justice; Journal of Human Development; Journal of Interpersonal Violence; New
 Genetics and Society; Science as Culture; Science, Technology, & Human Values; Social
 Forces; and The Sociological Review. We have reviewed monograph proposals and
 manuscripts for Berghahn, Duke University Press, Longman, Policy Press, Routledge, and
 Sage. We have reviewed grant proposals and end of award research reports for the Economic
 and Social Research Council; The Netherlands Organization for Scientific Research; The Czech
 Science Foundation; and the U.S. National Science Foundation.

 We have organised 5 international and national conferences, conference streams and
 workshops. Members of the unit have delivered 50+ invited lectures and presentations. This
 activity has given a clear boost to publication. For example, Skinner’s invited papers at events
 organised by History and Philosophy of Science, Cambridge University, the University of
 Manchester/University of Amsterdam, the Exchange Project (ERC) at the Universidade do
 Minho, Braga, and École des Hautes Études en Sciences Sociales, Paris led directly to peer-
 reviewed outputs published in special issues of Biosocieties and British Journal for the History of
 Science: Themes.

 Contribution to Society
 Our contribution to society emerges out of a planned and explicit strategy of impact and
 knowledge exchange rooted in no small part in the ARU Research Institutes. Some projects
 have centred on the application and translation of social science into other disciplinary and
 policymaking contexts. In the Shape-Energy project (funded by the EU via Horizon 2020)
 Skinner worked with colleagues in the ARU Global Sustainability Institute and a network of
 collaborators across the EU to mainstream social science and humanities research in the
 development of low-carbon policy and engineering.

 Sometimes, research impact rests squarely on a planned approach to communication and
 dissemination. Boakye’s work on attitudes towards the death penalty in Ghana has shifted the
 terms of public debate by showing that the majority of citizens oppose capital punishment. It has
 been utilised by advocacy and civil society groups and more widely, including the Death Penalty
 Worldwide, the UNHRC, Reprieve, and the EU Delegation in Ghana. Boakye’s research also

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 changed how suicide is reported in Ghana and promoted a move away from criminalisation to
 recognising suicide as a public health issue.

 Arrangements, such as our partnership with Essex Police, have allowed us to conduct demand-
 led research of immediate value to its end-users and with a direct dissemination route. Initially
 local and regional, we have now developed networks that provide access to research users at
 strategic levels. Lundrigan has delivered keynotes to the National Police Chiefs’ Council, the
 National Probation Service’s Heads of Public Protection, and The International Association of
 the Treatment of Sexual Offenders. PIER have also presented to the MOSOVO working group,
 Ministry of Justice; National Probation Service’s Heads of Public Protection meeting; and the
 ARMS Steering Board at New Scotland Yard. By building long-term relationships with funders,
 stakeholders, fellow researchers and, in some cases, research subjects, PIER has ensured the
 sustainability of impact. For example, work improving Registered Sex Offender management
 (see ICS) funded by the Dawes Trust has developed into another similarly funded project 2020-
 2022 to improve the multi-agency risk management of violent and sexual offenders in the
 community.

 Our societal contribution also rests on enhancement of the capacity of partner organisations to
 conduct research and collect and apply evidence effectively. O’Reilly is Academic editor for
 Policing Insight, the leading magazine focusing on the governance, management and politics of
 policing and maintains a weekly mailing list of relevant policing research that is shared with a
 network of 80+ police officer researchers. Trivedi-Bateman, in her position of academic research
 advisor for Street Games UK (a charity that explores the impact of physical exercise on
 wellbeing, health, and crime and antisocial behaviour outcomes), helps to ensure that practice in
 the field is informed by the latest research. PIER hosts practitioners as Visiting Fellows. Its
 Police Research Seminar Series (18 events) offers police practitioners the opportunity to hear
 about relevant ARU research. These have proved an effective mechanism for rapid knowledge
 exchange: resulting in Essex Police setting up Domestic Abuse Problem Solving Teams across
 the County, the first initiative of its kind in the UK and a request from the College of Policing for
 support in developing a national response to police as domestic abuse perpetrators.

 PIER co-hosted two National Child Sexual Abuse and Exploitation (CSAE) Conferences with the
 National Police Chiefs’ Council lead for Child Protection in 2017 and 2019. These conferences
 brought together leading figures from government, police, the third sector, academia, and
 industry to discuss new approaches to the investigation of CSAE and were attended by 400+
 delegates from across the UK. In 2019 and 2020 PIER also delivered 2 CSAE Practitioner
 Workshops (the third postponed due to Covid) specifically for public protection officers to allow
 the sharing of best practice and collaborative learning from research evidence and case reviews.
 These were attended by 237 practitioners from 21 different police forces and agencies. Before
 this, no such opportunity existed for public protection practitioners to come together collectively
 and learn from others. Feedback from these events was overwhelmingly positive with 100% of
 respondents either agreeing or strongly agreeing that the workshop would impact positively on
 their day-to-day practice.

 Todd offers another outstanding example of our contribution to professional practice. As a
 sociologist of religion, his research on Chaplaincy has had impact on public sector policies in
 prisons and healthcare and the practice of multi-faith chaplaincy in the UK, Norway, Australia,
 Canada and Turkey. This is through his key role in shaping training and continuing professional
 development and via channels including contributions to policy consultations; numerous
 keynotes at practitioner conferences; regular contributions to practitioner media; as a consultant
 to HM Prison and Probation Service; as Academic Advisor to the UK Board for Healthcare
 Chaplaincy; as Academic Consultant on multi-faith chaplaincy, Australian Armed Forces; and his
 participation in the All-Wales Mental Health and Spirituality Special Interest Group, sponsored by
 the Welsh Assembly Government.

 The PIER annual lecture series engages the public in key debates in policing. Lectures have
 addressed topical subjects including policing in the pandemic and been attended by 800+

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 people. High-profile speakers include the Director General of Europol, Chair of the National
 Police Chiefs’ Council, Minister for Policing and Fire, Chief Constables of Essex Police and
 Norfolk Police, Director General of the National Crime Agency, Former Director General of MI5,
 and Chief Executive of the College of Policing.

 These lectures are examples of our commitment to organise and participate in events that
 enhance the reach of traditional scholarship to diverse audiences, for example at the Cambridge
 Festival of Ideas, Cambridge Commons and Cambridge Science Festival. As founding convenor
 of the campaigning group Another Europe is Possible, Cooper co-authored two significant
 research reports which made an important contribution to public debate about migrants’ rights
 post-Brexit. Colleagues have written 4 articles for the Guardian, 4 articles for Open Democracy,
 2 articles for the Conversation, and have contributed to 8 podcasts, 6 radio appearances, 4
 television appearances, and 2 television consultancies. Lundrigan appeared as a ‘Geo-profiler’
 in a BBC series titled ‘Jack the Ripper: The Case Reopened’ and has provided specialist
 geographic profiling expertise for four high-profile television documentary series which have
 aired on the BBC, Channel Four and the Crime and Investigation Channel.




                                                                                          Page 14
