Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Bradford

 Unit of Assessment: C19 Politics and International Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview in the Context of REF 2014

 Our Unit of Assessment is in the School of Social Sciences of the Faculty of Management, Law
 and Social Sciences and is centred at the Division of Peace Studies and International
 Development (PSID). This was established by a merger in 2015 of two departments: Peace
 Studies and the Bradford Centre for International Development (BCID). Each of these had long-
 standing global reputations as centres of international excellence in multidisciplinary research,
 teaching and policy/practitioner engagement. PSID builds on these historical strengths, and on
 the previous overlap in their research and engagement with questions relating to the global
 South and with development issues in fragile or conflict-affected areas. Our previous Politics and
 International Studies submissions to REF2014 (and earlier RAEs) were centred on staff at
 Peace Studies but included some staff at BCID. For REF2021, we also include a historian
 (Housden) and two law researchers (Emeseh and Elfving) located in sister departments in the
 same School, who in practice are an integral part of the research activities and mechanisms of
 our Unit.

 There is strong continuity between our present Unit submitted for REF2021 and the Unit
 assessed for REF2014. It continues to be a globally-recognised centre of international
 excellence for research, teaching and policy/practitioner engagement in peace, conflict and
 development issues, including politics, history and international relations. Our research strategy
 in REF2014 was to maintain and further strengthen our Unit as a centre of excellent fundamental
 and applied, multidisciplinary research with strong influential engagement with relevant national,
 international and global policy and practitioner communities. It remains a priority to maintain the
 multidisciplinary and mostly problem-oriented approach to research at our Unit, and thus to
 maintain and develop an excellent environment for research as well as for knowledge transfer,
 engagement and impact - all within the overall context of our Faculty and wider University
 systems and resources. Our strategy also included: further developing our John and Eleanora
 Ferguson Centre of African Studies (JEFCAS) Centre; maintaining our large PGR Programme of
 around 50 PGR students; and raising substantial external income from diverse sources.

 The central elements of our 2014 research strategy have largely been achieved and its
 principles underpin our on-going strategy over the current REF period. Our completed
 departmental merger enabled useful synergies, particularly on issues relating to peace, conflict,
 development, and environmental governance in fragile, transitional and conflict-affected areas,
 and further developing strategic international partnerships. Our large RKT engagement has been
 developed, including through major contracts with the African Development Bank, the Aga Khan
 Foundation, and the UK Ministry of Defence (MoD). The JEFCAS Africa Centre was re-launched
 in early 2019, with a new Advisory Board and expanded scope to incorporate a wider range of
 development issues as well as its existing peace and conflict focus. The Unit has further
 developed its position as one of Rotary International’s Rotary Peace Centres (there are six
 around the world and only one other in Europe). To ensure and support a vibrant research
 environment and culture across the Unit, we not only maintain a well-developed set of
 mechanisms for research support, mentoring and co-ordination plus several research seminar
 series, amounting to four or five per month, but also several ‘Research Clusters’ enabling regular
 cross-cutting research discussions involving academic staff and PGR students at the Unit. For
 most of this REF period we have had four Research Clusters, providing specific research
 support structures and enabling critical mass in: Peace, Security and Sustainable Development;
 International and Security Studies (including arms control); Development Policy and Practice;
 Agency, Inclusion and Social Justice.



                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 In addition to constant incremental evolution, our research strategy was reviewed and further
 developed in depth in 2015-2016 and 2019-2020. In this context, in recognition of productive
 new areas of collaborative research focus, the Unit recently established our International History
 Research Cluster. In our 2019-2020 Unit strategy review, we identified three broad global
 challenge research areas where we plan to maintain particularly active research. The first is the
 politics and implementation of Sustainable Development Goals, and to facilitate this we recently
 merged our Research Clusters in the Peace, Security and Sustainable Development and in
 Development Policy and Practice. The second is regional politics, security and law in a changing
 geo-strategic context, and the third is community resilience and well-being, and complex
 transnational challenges.

 Approach to Supporting Interdisciplinary Work

 Our Unit is intrinsically multidisciplinary. Historically, the Department of Peace Studies strongly
 emphasised its identity as an international centre for research, teaching and engagement in
 which all relevant disciplines should be appropriately combined to work on issues within the
 areas of Peace and Conflict. Similarly, Development Studies is a multidisciplinary academic
 area. The merged Unit retains strong commitment to this approach, further re-inforced by the
 integration of researchers in law and history. Whilst the Politics and International Studies UoA is
 our most natural home for REF2021, we present ourselves as a strongly multidisciplinary unit
 with research that extends substantially beyond these disciplinary boundaries. This is reflected
 in our research outputs, which include works contributing to history, law, economics,
 environmental studies management, urban planning, biochemistry and bio-safety, for example,
 as well as international studies and politics. It is further reflected in our initiatives for
 multidisciplinary collaborations. For example, Greene strengthened our emerging dynamic
 collaboration with Archaeological and Forensic Sciences at Bradford, on issues of heritage in
 fragile and conflict-affected areas and on the use of digital technologies to enhance resilience in
 communities where there are displaced people or refugees. Whitby, Dando and Crowley have
 built on their international research and impact on bio-safety issues to collaborate with
 colleagues in Chemical Engineering and Chemistry on innovative approaches to enhancing
 awareness and knowledge of Bio-Science ethics amongst the international bio-science research
 community and life science students. The Unit recently launched two pilot projects examining
 implications of aspects of the COVID-19 pandemic.

 Our staff come from a range of academic disciplines and are consistently engaged with national
 and international interdisciplinary teams to investigate complex international or societal problems
 including problems at the interfaces of natural science, technology, law and society and of
 environment, natural resources and state-societal fragility. Our research strategy is to ensure
 that we sustain and further develop this multidisciplinary approach, in terms of new staff
 appointments as opportunities arise but also by taking opportunities to further develop research
 at the law-politics interface (with the recent establishment of a Law School at Bradford) and on
 enhancing public service provision in developing, fragile and conflict-affected areas
 (collaboratively with relevant groups at the Management Centre at Bradford). We have
 developed a partnership (supported by GCRF funding) with a consortium of Universities,
 including Leeds, Glasgow, Strathclyde and UCL, on emerging praxis and priorities for enhancing
 mental health and well-being in developing country contexts where our contribution focuses on
 approaches relating to enhancing community solidarity and resilience in poor, fragile or
 fragmented contexts. The expanded scope of our JEFCAS Africa Centre explicitly aims to
 enable wider multidisciplinary programmes on complex African challenges, reflected for example
 in its work as a partner in a DFID-funded multidisciplinary programme (led by Cambridge
 University) examining India’s evolving engagement with West Africa, and in its partnership with
 the Royal Institute of International Affairs (Chatham House) Africa Programme. Anand has co-
 led international applied research on the capability approach to development (with Cambridge
 University), and also on smart and sustainable cities and digital innovation.




                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Open Research

 We are committed to the ‘open research’ agenda and ensure that staff in our UoA comply with
 all aspects of the open access requirements and opportunities of University of Bradford. Thus,
 we strive to ensure that all staff research outputs are available via the institutional repository
 ‘Bradford Scholars’, including practical support to train and assist our new researchers in
 ensuring full open access to their research. Although much of our research is qualitative, our
 policy is to ensure open availability of any research data sets within appropriate ethical limits, by
 posting such data on relevant open-access sites, including figshare and Zenodo, and facilitating
 critical use of our data by others in response to requests.

 More widely, open research has long been central to the ethos of the Unit. We actively
 encourage and support our academic staff, PGR students and research associates to ensure
 open access to the products of projects and programmes aimed more at policy and practitioner
 communities (with some confidentiality constraints relating to commissioned work for
 governments). As discussed below (under Impact), our Unit’s approach to research is to
 encourage and support active engagement with relevant practitioner, policy or potential
 beneficiary communities from the early stages of each research project, which promotes
 stakeholder informed research agendas not only by enhancing dissemination and public
 awareness but also by enabling such stakeholders to shape and inform the research. For
 example, our research on community adaptation to flooding and other risks associated with
 climate change, one of our REF Impact Case Studies (C19-1), was not only published by the UK
 Environment Agency but also actively involved (and disseminated to) communities in Yorkshire
 and Lancashire. Similarly, our AHRC-funded research on building resilience of refugee and
 refugee-host communities in Jordan systematically engaged with UNHCR, Mercy Corps and
 other humanitarian NGOs, and local NGOs, municipal authorities, and the different sectors of the
 refugee and host communities at an early stage and continued regularly to engage and feedback
 to them. We actively ensure that our research on issues including bio-safety and chemical and
 biological weapons, arms proliferation, security and justice sector reform, and on sustainable
 goals, environmental or natural resource governance is not only available on the relevant
 international and specialist web-sites, but also presented at side meetings of international and
 regional negotiations processes – for example for the Climate Change Convention, Arms Trade
 Treaty, UN Programme of Action on Small Arms and Light Weapons, Convention on Biological
 Weapons, and their specialist working groups.

 In terms of promoting access for the wider public, Unit staff regularly contribute articles to public
 outlets such as The Conversation and Open Democracy to widely disseminate our research
 agendas and findings. We organise and participate in webinars enabling wider access to our
 research and findings: for example, during 2020 staff at our Unit led more than 20 widely
 advertised, free, open access webinars drawing on their research to address important public
 issues. We contribute to science and literature festivals, including the annual Bradford Literature
 Festival and the British Science Festival; each year our staff provide 80 – 100 invited public
 lectures relating to our research around the UK and internationally; as well as contributing
 regularly to a wide variety of Radio and TV programmes (including local radio and BBC, ITN,
 Channel 4, CNN, World Services, and regional channels in Africa, the Americas, Europe and
 Asia).

 Research Integrity

 Our Unit is strongly committed to the principles and implementation of UK, EU and international
 good practices to ensure ethical design and conduct of research and responsible engagement
 with communities and policy and practitioner networks in its research and external engagement
 activities. Since peace, conflict, development, environmental and legal issues are complex and
 contested, particularly in areas of insecurity, poverty or marginalisation, we have played leading
 roles in developing and disseminating widely used good ethical practice. For example, we have
 played influential roles in developing international conflict-sensitivity and gender-sensitivity
 guidelines, and spreading good practices, including training for international and government

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 agencies and NGOs as well as for our own PGR and PGT student cohort. Building on our earlier
 work with OECD-DAC and the international NGO Conflict Sensitivity Consortium, this has
 recently been reflected, for example, in the work of the Helpdesks on Human Security and
 Humanitarian Affairs for the Swedish Government that were co-ordinated up to 2016 by Greene,
 and our further development since 2017 of guidelines and practices of conflict and gender
 sensitivity in fragile, insecure or humanitarian crisis contexts collaboratively with Oxfam,
 Saferworld and other international NGOs.

 On a procedural level, all research needs prior approval from the University Ethics panel. We
 apply all University of Bradford institutional requirements, which include those of the UUK
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity. Since 2018, all PGT student dissertations at PSID
 include an ethical assessment, partly to ensure good practice but also as an educational process
 for students in their future roles. Each year, specific training workshops on conflict and gender
 sensitivity methods and guidelines are offered at our Unit, available to PGT and PGR students
 as well as interested staff. Within the Unit, the Research Cluster structures and meetings enable
 active collective discussion and review of relevant research project design and implementation
 issues as useful, and the Unit’s RKT committee and its Director regularly provide advice and
 support.

 Impact

 The Unit builds on a strong track record of producing research impacts. In REF2014, the Unit
 performed excellently in impact. Our continued, strong commitment to encourage and support
 consistent engagement with policy and practitioner communities (local, national and
 international) and affected communities across the world to help to identify and positively
 address problems relating to peace, conflict, sustainable development and law means that we
 are well-placed to achieve wider impact. Our impact strategy recognises that there is a diversity
 of effective approaches for achieving impact from our research; but emphasises achieving
 impact as an integral part of effective engagement with affected communities and with relevant
 policy and practitioner communities (including relevant governments, government agencies,
 community leaders, NGOs, and international organisations), from the beginning of our research
 rather than only starting impact activities after research outputs have been completed. Our
 strong track record and experience enable us to identify and support opportunities for positive
 impact in a wide variety of contexts, which are integrated into our RKT support structures and
 mechanisms, including regular mentoring and our Research Clusters meetings (outlined above).

 Our Unit has at least ten research areas where it has had substantial impacts, locally, nationally
 and internationally between 2014-2020, and numerous other areas of significant emerging
 impact (see Section 4 below). The two impact cases selected for this REF submission are drawn
 from wider areas of our Unit’s research impact on policies and programmes and relate to (i)
 community resilience against the effects of climate change and other environmental risks in the
 UK and overseas and (ii) security and justice sector reform in developing, fragile and conflict-
 affected areas. The first case study (C19-1) describes the impacts of the Kellys’ research on the
 policies and practices of Environment Agency (England), Natural Resources Wales and local
 authorities for working with affected local communities to build resilience against flooding and
 other climate change risks. The second (C19-2) shows the impacts of Macaulay’s work on
 Brazilian Police awareness, training and practices for responding to gender-based violence. Our
 Unit (Greene) also contributed to the Impact Case Study relating to ‘fragile heritage’ submitted
 by the University’s Psychology UoA.

 2. People

 In addition to the permanent academic staff, our Unit also includes several Emeritus Professors
 who remain actively involved with research and KT (including Rogers, Dando, Woodhouse and
 Ramsbotham); and several Research Associates (including Crowley, Young, Pearson and
 Potts). As part of our staffing strategy, we actively seek to have temporary Research Fellows
 working at the Unit, and to include our cohort of PGR students in our research activities

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (consistent with their PhD priorities). We encourage our research partners based at universities
 in other countries to become visiting researchers at PSID, for example during their sabbaticals,
 and our strategic partnership arrangements typically include provision for staff and student
 exchanges.

 As noted, the staff at our Unit come from a wide range of disciplinary backgrounds, helping to
 support our multidisciplinary research, and our strategy is to maintain this over the normal cycles
 of staff turnover. Several academic staff departed between 2014 and 2020, due to retirement
 (Potts, Analoui) or taking up new positions (including Pearce, Hughes, Francis, Cooper and
 Chesters). Some new staff have been recruited, and we aim to recruit further as soon as
 opportunities arise. For example, three early career researchers (ECRs) have recently been
 appointed in the areas of law and legal studies. Similarly, PSID’s strategy for recruitment of
 academic staff as future opportunities arise is to prioritise recruitment of ECRs, not only from
 standard academic career routes but also well-qualified people with a previous career in relevant
 national and international policy and practitioner communities.

 Our Unit takes full advantage of Faculty provisions to enable all research active staff to take
 three month sabbaticals, on approval of a research sabbatical plan. This is supported at Unit
 level. For example, between 2014 and 2019, three permanent academic staff at our Unit
 normally benefitted from this each year. In addition, there are staff exchange and secondment
 opportunities with overseas partner research institutions. The Unit has well-developed support
 mechanisms for staff, relating to teaching, administration, research and external engagement,
 within the wider framework of support at Faculty and University levels. These include a wide
 range of training programmes, mechanisms for active peer review and support, an active
 mentoring system, as well as the usual performance appraisal. To support research quality, we
 arrange review and feedback on draft and final research outputs, feedback and support on draft
 funding proposals and on successful project implementation.

 Career Development

 Probationary academic staff have a 20% reduced teaching and administration workload to
 enable them to consolidate their research strategy and activities. They are assigned a mentor
 and encouraged to participate in the Unit’s research programmes and Research Clusters and
 (where relevant) the JEFCAS centre, as well as across the Faculty and University. After
 confirmation in post, ECRs continue to receive additional research support, including specific
 mentoring support arrangements, alongside opportunities to develop their HEI teaching
 knowledge and skills through the Bradford Fellowships programme. Moreover, through the many
 types of engagement that our Unit and its staff regularly have every month with public bodies
 and policy and practitioner communities around the world, we provide opportunities for new
 researchers and more established staff to develop external contacts and partnerships.

 Academic staff can apply for Research Development Funds (RDF) through a University-wide
 mechanism, and several members of our Unit have recently benefitted from this. For example,
 since 2016, researchers in our unit have received RDF support to develop research and
 collaborations on issues including: lessons-learned on the implementation of conflict and gender
 sensitivity guidelines in contexts of fragility or humanitarian crises; building refugee or displaced
 community resilience and well-being; examining and developing strategies for healthy cities;
 trades union engagement for sustainable livelihoods in the context of rapid technology changes;
 a review of programmes on mental well-being and community heritage in the MENA region; and
 on the responsible use of AI for dealing with the impacts of COVID-19.

 There are regular training sessions to support staff with research development, including a well-
 developed series of courses offered centrally by the University Research and Innovation Service
 (RaIS) team, who also offer support with all aspects of funded projects. Additionally, we offer
 more customised training organised at Divisional, School and Faculty levels. For example, staff
 in our Unit regularly meet to discuss and review each other’s research initiatives and draft
 research proposals within our Research Clusters alongside relevant PGR students. Each year,

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 every staff member completes an updated five-year Personal Research and Innovation Plan
 (PRIP), to facilitate strategic reflection on research priorities. These are reviewed in personal
 development review meetings with the Head of Division and in mentoring and review meetings
 with the Unit’s Research Director and other mentors.

 Research Students

 The PGR programme has been maintained and developed, with some 68 PhD completions
 between 2014 and 2020. Between seven and 15 PGR students have submitted their thesis for
 PhD examination every year, with an excellent success rate (over 95%). The Unit currently has a
 large body of PGR students, and attracts substantial numbers of good quality PGR applications
 each year from the UK, EU and internationally. The number of PGR students addressing
 research questions on peace, conflict, development, history and law issues has remained large,
 with a total of 56 registered PGR students in 2019-2020.

 In addition to maintaining the Staff-PGR committee, PGR research presentations, and providing
 many opportunities for our PGR students to participate in research workshops, conferences and
 events (including some funding), our Unit has recently taken measures to further enhance the
 research environment for PGR students, including re-organising our Research Clusters to
 enable increased PGR participation and benefits. The Unit actively participates in the
 development of Faculty plans to enhance the opportunities for PGR students to obtain research
 assistance, teaching and other experience relevant to their future careers. All PGR students
 have the opportunity to enrol in the Bradford Fellow programme as associate fellows and are
 also encouraged to shadow and take some teaching sessions with their supervisors/relevant
 lecturers. Similarly, the Unit has supported the Faculty decision to offer a PhD by publication
 route to those outside the University (e.g. researchers who are working in think-tanks and
 government departments).

 On admission each student is allocated a supervisory team of at least two academic members of
 staff. Students are required to provide a monthly record of meetings with supervisors and an
 annual report and review process. A formal PhD ‘progression viva’ occurs at an appropriate date
 after 12 months for full-time students and 18 - 24 months for part-time students. Students are
 encouraged to submit a presentation at the Faculty PGR Conference convened annually to help
 them become accustomed to presenting their research in poster and verbal formats. This is a
 major event with students attending from across the Faculty of Law, Management and Social
 Sciences.

 Research students can bid for funds to support attendance at academic conferences and are
 actively supported in presenting research papers at national and international conferences
 (including on-line during COVID-19 constraints). Through our experienced staff, we provide
 opportunities for PGRs to develop further external contacts and partnerships. Thus, senior staff
 with extensive experience and networks in national and international policy and practitioner
 communities provide advice and support for our PGT students and PGRs seeking internships or
 opportunities for wider engagement, and regularly organise events and missions to enable them
 to engage directly. For example, each year, our Unit arranges (with support from the Quaker
 Peace Studies Trust) student study visits to international and regional organisations based in
 The Hague and to a wide range of bodies and centres in Northern Ireland relevant to the
 complex Northern Ireland Peace Process. We similarly arrange an annual Africa study visit to a
 conflict-affected African country. Under our Rotary International Peace Fellow programme, we
 have recently organised visits of students and researchers to other peace research centres, for
 example recently to Sweden, Norway and Egypt. We have institutional arrangements with the
 Quaker European Peace Centre in Brussels, Hiroshima City University, and with many other
 relevant centres across the world, to facilitate student and new researcher international
 engagement.

 We continue to mentor and support our PGR students once they have completed their PhD, to
 help them to establish themselves as independent researchers or expert practitioners. The Unit

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 actively engages with and supports its wide alumni networks, through a dedicated Facebook
 page, regular webinars and occasional alumni workshops and conferences – at Bradford but
 also in their home locations in East Asia, Europe, MENA, Africa and the Americas as
 opportunities arise. Alumni access to university library also helps ECRs.

 Equality and diversity

 Our Unit is not only committed to the principles of equality and diversity, but also works
 consistently to ensure and strengthen their implementation, including on issues of gender, race
 and disability. All staff complete mandatory training on equality and diversity. The staff, PGR and
 wider student body at our Unit are highly international and multicultural; and we believe that we
 successfully maintain a strong culture and practice of inclusiveness, mutual respect, solidarity
 and support for each other's well-being.

 This is reflected in flexibility and support for staff with demanding family commitments or
 returning from maternity/paternity leave or long-term health issues. In this the Unit’s practice is
 aligned with overall University of Bradford institutional commitments and support systems. As
 part of wider University policy, our Unit enables flexible working patterns. Recruitment panels are
 selected for gender balance and are required to attend mandatory training to address risks of
 unconscious bias. We recognise the need for constant review and improvement in this area and
 strive to act accordingly.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Funding

 The Unit’s strategy is to develop and maintain substantial external funding from diverse sources
 including research funding bodies, government agencies, international organisations, charitable
 foundations, and relevant industrial and commercial organisations to support academic and
 applied research as well as knowledge transfer and engagement and impact in policy and
 practitioner communities. In addition to direct external funding, our research activities are often
 resourced through funds held by partner organisations and collaborators.

 Evans, Croucher and Wilson (Archaeological and Forensic Sciences) and Greene were awarded
 GBP100,000 by the AHRC in 2019 for their project on building resilience in displaced societies
 using digital heritage; and GBP9,000 as part of a consortium led by Leeds University who were
 awarded a GRCF Cluster grant on emerging praxis and priorities for enhancing mental health
 and well-being in developing country contexts; as well as a GBP7,000 HEIF small grant (2020).
 Anand received GBP28,100 from the British Council’s Intellectual Partnerships and Mobility
 programme for his ‘Better Inclusive, Smart and Sustainable Cities’ research network’ programme
 (2016-2019). Building on previous major research grants (including Wellcome Trust), our group
 (Whitby, Dando, Crowley, Pearson) researching biological and chemical disarmament processes
 and bio-science and bio-technology security issues has maintained high levels of research
 activities supported by Leverhulme Trust (Dando, Emeritus Fellowship), the Human Rights
 Committee of the Council of Europe (Crowley) and small grants from a range of international
 partners.

 Between 2014 and 2016, Greene received a total of approximately GBP200,000/year from
 Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA) for a series of applied research projects on
 conflict, security and development issues in fragile and conflict-affected countries, under his
 SIDA Helpdesk on Human Security and Humanitarian Assistance contract. Macaulay received
 awards from the British Council ‘Researcher Links Scheme’ (GBP20,000), with follow-on
 (GBP4,800) for research in 2014 on prison system reforms, and from the British Embassy
 Programme Fund (GBP50,000), Avon Institute Fund (GBP7,500) and Uber Brazil Combatting
 Violence Against Women Initiative (GBP24,000) to support her work between 2016 and 2019 on
 police responses to gender-based violence in Brazil. In 2018 she was awarded a British
 Academy/Leverhulme research grant (GBP7,500) to support research on the migration of police
 officers into legislative politics in Brazil. In 2014 Morvaridi was awarded GBP78,000 by the
                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Turkish Ministry of Development for field research and analysis on social safety nets in poverty
 reduction strategies, and received GBP15,000 from the Centre for Applied Social Research for
 his project on New Philanthropy, Social Justice and Social Policy (2014-2015).

 In 2020 Harris and Vittorrini (SOAS) were awarded GBP50,000 to research India’s engagement
 with West Africa as part of a DfID-funded research programme co-ordinated by University of
 Cambridge. After receiving seed funding (GBP5,300) from the internal University Collaboration,
 Capacity and Intellectual Property (CCIP) development grant in 2017, Rhys and Ute Kelly (with
 their partner Icarus) received a total of GBP150,000 from the Environment Agency (England) to
 support their ‘Working Together to Adapt to a Changing Climate’ project (2018-2020) plus a
 ‘HEIF Strategic Priorities’ grant of GBP15,400 to develop their work further in 2020. Greene,
 Hughes and Macaulay received GBP5,000 in 2017 to support an applied research workshop
 series with Oxfam and Saferworld on conflict-sensitive aid in fragile areas. In 2020 similar seed
 funding grants were awarded to Elfving (GBP2,200) on roles of EU lawyers in promoting equality
 before the EU Court of Justice, Anand and Neagu (Engineering) (GBP3,000) on COVID-19
 impact and development, and Arora and Jalalian (GBP3,000) on COVID-19 impacts and the
 roles of FinTech.

 In line with the Unit’s strategy such research funding was complemented by substantial external
 income for ‘knowledge transfer’ programmes. These include Greene’s contracts with the UK
 MoD for a University Short Course Programme for UK Armed Forces personnel (GBP300,000
 (2014-2017) and GBP700,000 (2017 – 2020)); Anand, Morvaridi, Greene et al. for a Professional
 Training programme for the African Development Bank (GBP300,000 (2014-2018), GBP214,000
 (2019-2020)); Anand et al. for a PG Education programme for the Aga Khan Foundation
 (Afghanistan and Tajikistan) (GBP220,000, 2014-2016); for Elfving, Thakker (Engineering) et al’s
 project on AI-based Expert Systems for Supporting Decision Making in UK Immigration Law
 (GBP170,000) supported by UK Innovate and A&Y Law Ltd (awarded 2020); and the Unit’s
 International: Peace Centre and Rotary International Peace Fellows Programme (approximately
 GBP500,000/year over 2014 – 2020).

 Research Infrastructure and Facilities

 The Unit benefits from the research infrastructure and facilities expected in a well-resourced,
 research-active University. The Unit specifically benefits from special library collections with
 extensive primary resources on peace and conflict issues at the Commonweal Library, including
 unique archive resources on peace movements, peace initiatives and related NGOs, and the
 peace museums movement and its international outcomes. This collection is housed in the
 University of Bradford JB Priestley Library, but has its own governing board. This collection is
 complemented by similar resources at the nearby Peace Museum in Bradford, which staff at our
 Unit helped to establish.

 We are a partner in the recent establishment of a new cross-faculty ‘Virtual Cave’ facility,
 particularly in relation to our multidisciplinary collaboration with the Department of Archaeology
 and Heritage. This facility most immediately benefits our BReaTHe research programme
 (Greene, Evans, Croucher and Wilson) on building the resilience and well-being of fragile
 communities and vulnerable groups through enhanced access to cultural heritage using digital
 technologies but is a useful facility for the wider development of research and impact in our Unit
 using VR. The Unit has collaborated actively with the National Science and Media Museum in
 Bradford, and thus has benefitted from its extensive resources relating to media technology and
 culture.

 UoA RKT Co-ordination and Support Mechanisms

 As outlined in Sections 1 and 2 above, the Unit has well-developed systems for research co-
 ordination and support, The UoA has an RKT Director in place (Greene), who chairs the Unit’s
 RKT Committee also comprising the convenors of our established Research Clusters, Centre
 Directors (presently JEFCAS), and the Head of Division. There is also a smaller management

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 group to support the RKT Director. This is embedded in the wider mechanisms for research
 coordination and support in the School of Social Science and our Faculty.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations

 The Unit and its staff have wide UK and international collaborations for research engagement
 with policy and practitioner communities across the world, many of which are long-standing and
 relatively institutionalised. Such links are reinforced by the fact that many of our alumni are now
 employed across hundreds of collaborating institutions. The JEFCAS Africa Centre brings further
 partnerships and collaborations, particularly in Africa. The situation is dynamic and evolving, with
 new collaborations regularly being established or energised.

 Some examples of specific research programmes include:

 Harris has funding collaborations with research consortia led by the University of Cambridge on
 India’s emerging external engagements; Anand collaborates with Universitas Gaja Madah, IIT
 Madras and the Indonesia Police Academy, and works with the Universities of Cambridge and
 Barcelona on the capability approach to development, and the international significance of the
 BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa). Macaulay works with the Universities of
 Brasília and Campinas, and research centres in São Paulo (University of São Paulo, Getúlio
 Vargas Foundation and the Brazilian Forum for Public Safety) on policing and gender-based
 violence. Jalalian has long standing research collaborations with UN University UNU-WIDER on
 challenges for economic development; Abi-Ezzi with the University of Kiev; and Arora with
 Griffith and Federation Universities (Australia), Delhi University (India) and Gdansk University of
 Technology (Poland). Batonyi works closely with researchers at the University of Budapest;
 while Price maintains close research relationships with historians of French history in Paris,
 Vienna and elsewhere. Morvaridi collaborates with Hughes and others at the Kroc Institute
 (USA) on the international production of development knowledge. Whitby, Dando and Crowley
 collaborate with researchers at Harvard and through the Royal Society of Chemistry (London),
 and with an international network of national bioscience institutes. Greene coordinated diverse
 collaborations for applied research and advice via the ‘Help-Desk on Human Security and
 Humanitarian Assistance’ for the Swedish Government (SIDA), involving 50 short projects since
 2014, including close collaboration with the NGO Saferworld and a network of international
 consultants. Bluth has research collaborations with Seoul University (Korea) and Institute of
 Defence and Strategic Studies (Pakistan), Greene with Waseda University (Japan) and the
 Shanghai Institute for International Security (China), and both with Hiroshima City University
 (Japan).

 More generally, during 2014-2020, our Unit had active collaborations with researchers at over 15
 UK universities (including Cambridge, London (Kings, UCL, SOAS), Leeds, Manchester,
 Glasgow, Coventry, Warwick, York, and Sheffield) and the main independent centres of
 international politics and security such as Chatham House (RIIA). However, most of its
 collaborations are international. We have regular research exchanges and conferences well as
 advanced-level teaching with the other five established Rotary Peace Centres in the world:
 University of Queensland (Australia), International Christian University (Japan), Chulalongkorn
 University (Thailand), University of North Carolina and Duke University (USA) and Uppsala
 University (Sweden), and played a leading role in facilitating Rotary International in bringing our
 partners at Makerere University (Uganda) into this group in 2020. With support from Rotary
 International, as a Rotary Peace Centre, there is high international competition for Rotary Peace
 Fellowships from talented applicants around the world. Each year, this brings ten international
 peace fellows to our Unit to join approximately 90-120 similar international students for Post-
 Graduate studies, study visits, and support in their applied fieldwork and internship. This has
 grown a large network of active and increasingly influential alumni working across the world,
 adding to our existing active alumni network.


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Similarly, we have active research collaborations with most of the major Peace Research
 Institutes or centres around the world, including in Oslo (PRIO), Stockholm (SIPRI), Frankfurt
 (PRIF), Hamburg, Bonn (BICC), Paris (Dauphine University), The Netherlands (The Hague,
 Clingendael Institute, Utrecht University), USA (Kent State University, Kroc Institute), and
 centres in Lisbon, Barcelona, Geneva, Brussels, California, Costa Rica, Sao Paulo, Rio de
 Janeiro, Addis Ababa, Johannesburg, Cape Town, Abuja, Lagos, Freetown, Dakaa (Senegal),
 Gulu (Uganda), Delhi, Islamabad (Pakistan), Dhaka (Bangladesh), Sri Lanka, Seoul, Hiroshima,
 Waseda (Tokyo), Beirut, Tel Aviv, Melbourne (Australia) and Wellington (New Zealand). For
 example, researchers from most of these and other centres participated in the Adam Curle
 Symposium we held in Bradford in 2016 and at international research workshops we have
 organised since 2014, and our researchers have either undertaken research visits or joint
 publications with these centres during 2014-2020. Similarly, our Unit is well-established in the
 international network of centres of development studies, and associated issues relating to
 environment, natural resource governance, refugees and humanitarian affairs. These include not
 only the major centres in North America (including Harvard, University of California, Colombia
 University), Europe (including Universities of Oslo, Hamburg, Utrecht, Amsterdam, Santa Anna,
 Lisbon) and Australasia (including Griffiths and Universities of Melbourne and Perth), but also in
 Sub-Saharan Africa (particularly Kenya, Ethiopia, Uganda, Rwanda, Somaliland, Tanzania,
 South Africa, Botswana, Nigeria, Ghana, Liberia, Sierra Leone, Senegal, Cote D’Ivoire); MENA
 (particularly Lebanon, Jordan, Egypt, Turkey, UAE, Qatar); Asia (particularly India; Pakistan,
 Japan, China, Indonesia, South Korea) and Latin America and the Caribbean (particularly Brazil,
 Argentina, Colombia, Costa Rica, Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago). Our Unit organised the major
 annual conference of the Development Studies Association in 2017. Researchers in our Unit
 from the School of Law have similarly active international collaborations with Emeseh working on
 extractive industry governance and sustainable development with networks of Universities in
 Nigeria and West Africa, as well as the UN University and Elfving collaborating on legal aspects
 of oil shale resources governance with York University in Canada and on EU courts and gender
 with the University of Tübingen, Germany, and with Central European University, Hungary and
 Radboud University, The Netherlands.

 Equally important from the perspective of our wider engagement with policy and practitioner
 communities, our Unit has well-established collaborations with many government agencies and
 international organisations working on issues researched at our Unit. For example, we have
 well-established relationships with international and regional security and conflict prevention
 organisations (including UN Disarmament Affairs; UN Department of Peace Keeping Operations,
 UN Development Programme; Organisation for Security Co-operation in Europe (Conflict
 Prevention Centre and High Commissioner for National Minorities); Organisation for the
 Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW); African Union; Economic Commission of West
 Africa States), relevant sections of the EU and NATO; and with numerous foreign, security and
 development ministries, particularly in the UK, Sweden, Netherlands, Japan and Canada. Staff
 at our Unit have carried out contracted applied research for or in collaboration with such
 ministries and agencies during the REF period and are frequently invited to contribute to their
 policy reviews or workshops. Our major RKT contracts with Sweden, UK MoD, African
 Development Bank, Aga Khan Foundation and Rotary International during the REF period are
 reflective of a wider engagement, for example, Rhys and Ute Kelly’s project on community
 resilience against climate change is not only funded by the UK Environment Agency but involves
 active collaboration with it. Whitby, Dando and Crawley’s projects on biochemistry and security
 have involved close collaborations with the Governments of UK, USA, Canada and Norway, the
 OPCW (The Hague) as well as wide international networks of relevant bio-science centres.

 Similarly, we collaborate with a substantial group of international NGOs, including Saferworld,
 Oxfam, Christian Aid, Conciliation Resources, International Alert, Oxford Research Group, Bonn
 International Centre for Conversion (BICC), VERTIC, ACCORD, Amnesty International, and
 Mercy Corps. Each of these NGOs actively collaborated or consulted with researchers at our
 Unit in funded RKT project or programming work between 2014 and 2020. For example,
 Saferworld and Oxfam collaborated with Greene, Macaulay and Hughes on a funded applied
 workshop series on challenges implementing conflict and gender sensitive programmes in fragile
                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 areas in 2017-2018. A similar workshop series on community resilience building in fragile and
 conflict-affected areas was held in 2020 (Greene, with Saferworld, Christian Aid, Peace Direct,
 International Alert, Oxfam, Conciliation Resources, Peace Direct and local NGOs, practitioners
 from Africa, Asia, South Pacific and Latin America). Some of our staff play leading advisory roles
 in international NGO networks concerned with our research areas (for example Macaulay with
 human rights networks in Latin America and Greene in the large international networks Control
 Arms, IANSA (International Action Network on Small Arms) and Conflict Prevention Network.

 Impacts of our research

 Our approach of establishing early and consistent engagement with relevant policy, practitioner
 and beneficiary communities as an integral feature of much of our research has produced wide
 impacts. In a review in 2018, for example, ten cases of areas where our research has had
 substantial recent impacts were identified. These include:

 Emeseh’s research on legal accountability and compliance for enhanced governance of oil and
 other natural resource extraction in Western Africa, and associated work on enabling
 implementation of the UN SDGs, which has impacted substantially on Nigerian government
 policy processes.

 Anand’s work on further developing and implementing smart and sustainable cities approaches
 and programmes had impacts on city authority planning in Indonesia, Ghana, India and the UK.

 Chester’s work on engagement of Trades Unions with civil society campaigns for equity and
 justice, are starting to influence the policies and practices of a number of Trades Unions.

 Greene and Cooper’s work on the development and implementation of international small arms
 control and conventional arms transfer and control agreements and programmes, particularly the
 UN Programme of Action on small arms and light weapons (SALW), the International Tracing
 Instrument, and the Arms Trade Treaty, and associated regional and international programmes
 to prevent diversion of authorised arms transfers promote marking and tracing of SALW in fragile
 and conflict-affected areas, improve the management and security of authorised stockpiles and
 holdings of arms and ammunition and enable more effective integration of measures to reduce
 and control SALW and armed violence into poverty-alleviation and development programmes.

 Jalalian and Arora’s work on financial technology and human development produced insights
 which are proving influential in international development communities and amongst policy
 makers in South Asia and elsewhere.

 Greene and MaCaulay worked on developing international good practice guidelines on security
 and justice sector reform and community security, policies and programmes; and contributed to
 specific reform processes in Ethiopia, Lebanon, Indonesia, Jamaica, Brazil, amongst others.

 The results of Morvaridi’s work on social safety nets and poverty reduction for the Organisation
 of Islamic Countries (OIC) was presented to national ministers from OIC countries in Ankara in
 2014 and had impacts in Turkey, Senegal and Tunisia.

 Greene, Croucher and Evan’s work on enhancing well-being and resilience in fragile and
 refugees communities by enhancing access to and use of diverse heritage through digital
 technologies has already impacted on refugee resilience and well-being programmes in Azraq
 Refugee Camp and Azraq Town in Jordan, and is having impacts influential in UNHCR, Mercy
 Corps and wider international agencies and NGOs concerned with refugees and IDPs as well as
 attracting interest amongst refugee and asylum-seeker support groups in northern England.

 Shahi’s work with the European Union and the US State Department produced training and
 improved policy relating to engagement with Iran and addressing ‘Political Islam’.



                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Whitby, Dando, Pearson and Crawley’s work on Chemical and Bioweapons has been influential
 in a series of Review Conferences of both the Biological Weapons Convention and Chemical
 Weapons Convention.

 Whitby, Dando and Pearson’s work on Dual-Use Neuroscience, and Awareness Raising and
 Ethical Education has affected the international bio-technology research community.

 Staff in our Unit have given evidence to and participated in Parliamentary Hearings on a range of
 issues, including international security trends, arms transfer controls, biosecurity, China in Africa,
 and on Smart and Sustainable Cities.

 Sustainability of the Discipline

 As noted in Section 1, the Unit is an acknowledged major international centre of multidisciplinary
 research and teaching in the areas of Peace and Conflict Studies and International Development
 and contributes to the vitality and sustainability of the broad disciplines of International Studies,
 Security Studies, Politics, History and Law. One of our contributions to sustainability of these
 areas and disciplines is our active roles in academic and research associations. For example,
 Anand and Morvaridi were elected Council members of the Development Studies Association
 between 2014 and 2020. Greene and our Emeritus Professors Woodhouse and Rowbotham
 contribute to the Conflict Research Societies governance activities and annual conferences, and
 several staff in the Unit contribute to the International Peace Research Association. Staff in our
 Unit are active members of the British International Studies Association, International Studies
 Association, European Consortium of Political Research, and numerous other academic
 associations and learned bodies relating not only to historical and legal research, but also more
 widely - for example Dando was editor of a Royal Society of Chemistry book in 2017. Greene is
 Chair of Board of Saferworld and VERTIC (Verification Research, Training and Information
 Centre) and on the International Advisory Board of BICC.

 Overall, our staff organise or co-organise numerous international or national research or RKT
 conferences and workshops each year, averaging at some 15 per year – for example a series of
 international conferences in India, Indonesia and Ghana on Smart and Sustainable Cities (2015-
 2020). The Unit hosted and co-organised (Morvaridi, Hughes, Greene, Anand) the 2017
 Development Studies Association Annual Conference, which was attended by over 400
 participants from the Development Studies Community both in the UK and abroad. Reflecting its
 role as a major peace and conflict research centre, the Unit organised the 2016 Adam Curle
 Centenary Conference, attended by 200 international academics and practitioners (funded by
 the Quaker Peace Studies Trust). We also organised the 2016 Joint Federal Government of
 Ethiopia and University of Bradford 50th Anniversary Africa Regional Conference on Education
 for Peace; and the 2014 Peace Studies 40th Anniversary Conference in Kampala, Uganda on
 Why War? Africa. As a Rotary International Peace Centre, our Unit (led by Morvaridi) has
 organised jointly with Rotary International several international conferences on peace and
 development during 2014-2020, including a global conference in Cairo in January 2020.

 The Unit has been organising the Bradford Development Lecture since 1991 with annual
 lectures throughout this REF period given by renowned scholars including Sir Richard Jolly, Paul
 Collier, Frances Stewart, Ha Joon Chang, David Hulme, Lord Maghnad Desai, historian
 Professor Martin Daunton, and Professor Kunal Sen. Drawing on its heritage as the world’s
 oldest University department of peace studies, the Division has embarked on an additional
 annual ‘Adam Curle Peace Lecture’, with the inaugural lecture given by psychologist and linguist
 Professor Steven Pinker (postponed from November 2020 to February 2021 due to COVID-19)

 Our JEFCAS Centre (directed by Harris) provides an important resource for promoting and
 supporting research on peace, governance and development issues in Africa, including
 convening and facilitating research workshops and conferences in Northern Universities in the
 UK and internationally in partnership with the Africa Programmes at Chatham House (RIIA),
 Kings College London, and partnerships in Africa. Macaulay has played leading roles in Latin
 American Studies, including as Editor of the Journal of Latin American Studies, and organised
                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 international workshops, such as ‘Comparative Approaches to Security Sector reform’ in Brazil
 (2014), with a special focus on the penal system’.

 In a new initiative, our Unit took over editorship and management of the on-line journal Stability
 (Macaulay, Greene and Anand) starting in November 2020. More widely, members of academic
 staff in the UoA also make the following contributions to journals: editorial board member Social
 Movement Studies and Anarchist Studies (Chesters); member of editorial committee Critical
 Studies on Security (Cooper) and Strategic Trade Review (Greene), assistant editor, Global
 Society (Hughes), editorial board member TraNS (Hughes); editorial board member, Journal of
 Sierra Leone Studies and associate editor British Journal of Middle Eastern Studies (Shahi);
 associate editor, Interviewing the Caribbean (U Kelly).

 Invited Keynotes and Lectures:

 Members of PSID regularly provide lectures, seminar or workshop presentations in the UK and
 internationally. They are in high demand as invited Keynote speakers and for other high-profile
 roles at conferences, around the world. For example, Greene has averaged 14 invited key-note
 presentations per year. Arora has participated in the Australian Economic Association
 conference. Macaulay spoke in the Brazilian Senate on domestic violence, and at the National
 Justice Council in Brazil on prison governance, as well as at events at the universities of
 Brasília, Campinas, São Paulo, and São Carlos, and at the annual conference of the Brazilian
 Institute of Criminology (IBCCrim). Anand delivered keynotes at UNDP global conference on
 extractive industries and sustainable development (Brazil), British Academy funded conferences
 in University of West London, IIT Madras, and the Journal of Governance conference at
 Universitas Mohammadiya Yogyakarta, Indonesia.

 Media:

 Members of this Unit regularly contribute to national and international media on issues relating to
 their research expertise, particularly Rogers, Shahi, Greene, Anand, Macaulay. Shahi, for
 example has recently had approximately 130 interviews per year with outlets including the BBC,
 France 24, Sky News, ITV News, Bloomberg Business, and The Daily Telegraph.

 Reviewers for Research Funding Bodies:

 Staff regularly serve with research funding bodies, for example, as members of the ESRC peer
 review panel (Cooper), the Advisory Board for the AHRC PaCCS Conflict Theme stream
 (Chesters), the AHRC PaCCS Conflict Theme Large Grants Panel (Cooper), the Newton Fund
 Panel (Morvaridi), and the EPSRC GCRF Panel (Anand)

 External examiners:

 During the current REF period PSID staff have been external examiners for Latin American
 Studies, University of Oxford and Development Studies, King’s College London (Macaulay); IIM
 University Dublin (Analoui); King’s College London (Harris); University of Kent (Cooper);
 Development Studies, University of Sussex (Morvaridi); University of Birmingham (Anand);
 University of Derby (Arora); Universities of Exeter and Nottingham Trent (Greene). Members of
 staff in PSID regularly act as external examiners for a wide range of PhDs both in the UK and
 overseas.




                                                                                            Page 13
