Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Institution: University of Stirling
 Unit of Assessment: C23 Education
 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Education at Stirling has been a part of the institution, and deeply engaged in research since the
 University received its charter in 1967. It is situated at the productive nexus of theory and practice,
 emphasised in the naming of the research group presented in this submission as Education
 Practice/Theory. The forward slash acts as a pivot neither conflating practice and theory nor
 producing a rift between them and is reflected in our distinctive approach to research in which
 theory is seen as deeply embedded in practice and practice is at the heart of theory. Our research
 and our educational practice embrace this philosophical stance.

 The Education Practice/Theory (EP/T) group adopts an interdisciplinary approach to studying
 social and educational practice in a variety of institutional settings, organisational contexts, life
 stages, and sites of inter-generational encounter. Our mission is to undertake research which
 provides evidence for decision-makers at every level of education (from the classroom to
 government and from the local to the global), to reframe professional engagement in practice, and
 to contribute to the conceptual development of the field of education. Strategic investment for
 success, support for staff across a range of disciplines, and nurture of new talent, have led us to
 become a sustainable centre of excellence in educational research. Education at Stirling produces
 research in the areas of Professional Learning, Leadership, & Governance, Curriculum,
 Educational Linguistics, Digital Learning, and Children’s Rights and Participation. The EP/T group
 provides strategic support, offers cohesion across disciplines and themes, advocates for equality
 and diversity, and facilitates high-quality, cross-cutting research.

 Unit context and structure
 The EP/T group is located in the Faculty of Social Sciences (FoSS). One of the five academic
 faculties of the University, FoSS was formed by the integration of the Schools of Education and
 Applied Social Science in 2016. This reorganisation has created synergistic interdisciplinary
 relationships with other social sciences.

 Research governance is conducted through the Associate Dean for Research (Copland), and the
 Faculty’s Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee (RKEC), which reports to the Faculty
 Executive, and to University Research Committee. One of seven research groups in the Faculty,
 EP/T creates collaborations across disciplines, and ensures staff and postgraduate researchers
 have a strong research identity. It is led by an experienced senior researcher (Watson) who sits
 on RKEC to ensure flows of information between it and EP/T. EP/T includes 24 staff (23.2 FTEs)
 and 57 post-graduate research students (at the census date).

 Research Strategy
 Over the last six years, we have made clear progress in meeting the goals of the Education
 research strategy laid out in 2014, which were to:

  •   increase research income
  •   support high quality research and publications
  •   increase the international significance of our work
  •   invest in developing the socio-economic impact of our research.

 Through strategic investment and planning we have made significant progress in meeting each
 of these four research objectives. Our staffing strategy has consolidated expertise in key thematic
 areas. Our rigorous approach to research is evidenced in both the quality of our research outputs,
 and our substantially increased research income: from just under £1,400,000 in the previous REF
 period to £4,200,000 in this. We have also enjoyed significant success in the development of


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 doctoral programmes, and this has led to an increase in research students making timely
 completions. Currently, staff in Education supervise 57 students (F/T and P/T). A key theme of the
 2014 strategy was to develop partnerships within and outside Scotland, and across a range of
 research users. In this submission, we highlight our successful collaborations with Scottish and
 Welsh Governments, regional agencies and local authorities, and national education agencies in
 Scotland and Ireland.

 Research areas

 (1) Professional Learning, Leadership and Governance. Research in this theme examines the
 changing nature of professional learning and leadership in educational settings. The work of the
 group contributes to the strategic aims of EP/T in building a sustained body of research aimed at
 promoting social improvement and reducing inequalities. Research in this theme has enjoyed
 success in research council funding, notably AHRC and ESRC, and has also made significant
 impacts on policy and practice in professional learning in Scotland and Wales. We work closely
 with end-users in the design of research, e.g. we work in partnership with Central Local Authority
 Stirling Partnership towards school improvement. A key outcome of research in this theme has
 been the development of ‘Critical Collaborative Professional Enquiry’ (CCPE), a model of
 professional learning which has influenced education policy and transformed teaching practices
 in Scotland and Wales, and which we report on in the impact case study, Bridging a Policy-Practice
 Space in Professional Learning Through ‘Critical Collaborative Professional Enquiry’ . The
 strategic objective to increase external research income through internal support has brought
 rewards. For example, research in CCPE has received funding from the Scottish Government,
 local authorities, and South East Wales Education Achievement Service, totalling £450,000.
 Strategic investment at Faculty level supported a successful bid for a 3-year, ESRC-funded
 interdisciplinary research project, ‘Processes and practices of governing in further education
 colleges in the UK: How do governing boards realise the strategic aims of the organisation?’ which
 aims to enhance colleges’ abilities to meet the needs of students, employers and labour markets
 (2018-2021; £812,514).

 (2) Curriculum. This theme has developed as a core strand of research, formalised in 2016 with
 the creation of the Stirling Network for Curriculum Studies. The network brings together
 international curriculum scholars from Europe, North America and Australasia, including formal
 partnerships with Western University (Canada) and Linnaeus University (Sweden). Activity has
 included hosting the European Conference on Curriculum Studies in 2017, taking on the editorship
 of the influential Curriculum Journal, and significant input to national curriculum policy and
 capacity-building work with schools and teachers in Ireland, Scotland and Wales. Curriculum
 research has generated new knowledge about complex patterns of curriculum making, including
 identification of barriers, drivers, and unintended consequences of policy. The Impact Case Study,
 ‘Remaking the curriculum: policy and practice’ is related to this area. Funded research and
 knowledge exchange includes a Nuffield project on curriculum making in Scottish secondary
 schools (2019-21), and two British Council projects on the implementation of the new Croatian
 national curriculum (2018-2019). Colleagues from this area have taken a central role in the
 response to the Covid-19 pandemic, for example, leading the Scottish Government’s Rapid Review
 of National Qualifications 2020 in the aftermath of the Scottish Examinations’ COVID-19 controversy
 (Priestley).

 (3) Educational Linguistics. A series of public events, and Carnegie Trust funding for a Visiting
 Professor (Claire Kramsch, University of California, Berkeley) have established a highly visible
 academic profile for this interdisciplinary research area. A major international conference,
 ‘Languaging in Times of Change’, (2018), brought state-of-the-art expertise to discussions of
 interdisciplinary language research. Educational Linguistics also hosted two one day conferences:
 ‘Who is the language learner’ in 2017, and a Festival of Social Sciences event in 2015 on language
 learning in Scotland. In 2019, a two-day researcher development event, funded by the Scottish
 Graduate School of Social Science, delivered training in Linguistic Ethnography to 27 early- and
 mid-career researchers. Funding achievements include an ESRC grant, ‘Supporting separated

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 migrant children to thrive during COVID-19’ (£192,630); a British Council Widening Participation
 grant, ‘English as a school subject: learning effective practices from low level primary English
 languageTeachers’ (£189, 834); two British Council English Language Teaching Research
 Awards (2015 and 2019, £36k); and AHRC/GCRF funding (2019) for a project which established
 network partnerships in Colombia, Lebanon, and South Africa. The network conducted
 intervention research in language policy and practice in Colombia, Lebanon, and South Africa.
 This network built on foundations laid in an AHRC/GCRF project (2018), ‘Overcoming Barriers to
 University Education in South Africa’, which, in collaboration with University of Cape Town,
 examined how translanguaging pedagogy provides success for disenfranchised students. AHRC
 has recognised the impact of the South Africa collaborative research as an AHRC Impact Case
 Study.

 (4) Learning for Complex Futures is an interdisciplinary theme that focuses on judgment and
 decision-making in increasingly complex, often highly-technologised and rapidly changing local
 and international environments. . The importance of this theme has been recognised at University
 level through the Digital Society and Culture Research Programme (led by Thompson), and at
 Faculty level with the appointment of an ECR (Wilson), and support for the international
 Professional Practice, Education and Learning (ProPEL) network. Major completed projects in this
 theme include the ‘oPEN’ project (Scottish Government, 2014-2016, £146,000); and the
 ‘CodeActs’ seminar series (ESRC, 2014, £29,703). Progress towards meeting the strategic
 objective to increase research income is evidenced in a major AHRC award in partnership with
 South African universities, ‘Water and Fire’ (GCRF, 2019-2022, £998,611). which aims to improve
 individual and community responses to local environmental crises arising from climate change;
 and the ‘Data Commons Scotland’ project (EPSRC, 2019-2021, £364,000), which is developing
 ways to improve community action based on digital Open Data on waste and resources.

  (5) Children’s Rights and Participation. Research in Children’s Rights and Participation examines
 how children and young people learn about their rights, and participate in decision-making about
 matters that affect their education and other services. The strategic objective to develop the socio-
 economic impact of our research has been met through funded collaboration with partners
 including Children and Young People’s Commissioner Scotland (£26,362), and Education
 Scotland (£21,364). Research critiquing the role of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child,
 and examining the link between participation rights and attainment, has resulted in significant
 changes to young people’s lives, through raising attainment, improving child-adult relations, and
 advancing school-community links. This work is presented in our Impact case study ‘Improving
 Children and Young People’s Rights-based Participation in Decision Making in Scotland and
 Internationally’. In addition, we conduct research in inclusion for children with additional needs for
 educational support, with a particular emphasis on those with language and behavioural
 difficulties. McCartney is a member of the international CATALISE consortium, whose definition
 of Developmental Language Disorder has been adopted by professional bodies including IASLT,
 RCSLT, and Speech Pathology Australia.

 Fostering Interdisciplinary Research
 The University’s research is embodied in three research themes: Cultures, Communities and
 Society, Global Security and Resilience, and Living Well. Within this, twelve distinct Research
 Programmes encourage and support interdisciplinary working. Colleagues in the EP/T Research
 Group lead the Digital Society & Culture programme and provide expertise, for example, to the
 University’s Extreme Events, Digital Culture and Society and Global Food Security Research
 Programmes. The EP/T Research Group also works across disciplines in a broad range of projects
 not primarily concerned with formal education, and seeks out collaborations both within the
 University and beyond. For example: Wilson is co-investigator on an EPSRC-funded project,
 ‘Participatory Design and Open Data Platforms for a Data Commons in Scotland: case study –
 waste management’, in collaboration with Communications, Media and Culture; Copland brings
 her applied linguistics expertise to the UKRI/ESRC project Designing for Ageing and Dementia
 International Research Network; Priestley was awarded funds by NASUWT to conduct the
 Teacher Workforce Survey in Scotland in collaboration with a colleague, Shapira, from Social

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Surveys and Statistics. Interdisciplinary research in the Faculty is fostered through enabling EP/T
 members to contribute to the work of other disciplinary research groups (e.g. Galloway and
 Swanson are members of the Crime and Justice group; Watson is a member of the Governance
 research group; I’Anson contributes to Child Well-Being and Protection).

 Future research strategy
 The EP/T Research Group will continue to develop research capacity across its core areas, driving
 forward social change to address inequalities. Our first aim is to develop a mission-oriented
 approach to research, working across the Faculty, University and beyond on major societal
 problems, including addressing poverty-related attainment gaps in the education experiences of
 young people.

 A second aim is to further develop interdisciplinary research which has strong impact potential.
 Investment into the innovation workstream of the Stirling and Clackmannanshire City Region
 Growth Deal, which is led by the University, provides an exciting new opportunity in this regard.
 EP/T is currently working with colleagues in Natural Sciences to ensure that the new Scotland’s
 International Environment Centre (£22m government investment) is underpinned by an education
 remit linked to health and well-being , and that the proposed Intergenerational Living Innovation
 Hub (£7.25m) has a focus on education across the lifespan .

 Our future research strategy also aims to increase research in international contexts, extending
 recent successes in winning UKRI research awards through the Global Challenges Research
 Fund, capitalising on international networks, and working towards the UN Sustainable
 Development Goals, quality education and reduced inequalities.

 We are committed to creating a sustainable and equitable group. We will do this through
 supporting all colleagues to attract research funding commensurate with their career stage, and
 through mentoring and including ECRs in research bids. We believe that a strong PGR cohort
 benefits the sustainability of educational research, and will work to ensure that all colleagues are
 supervising their current target of 2.5 students.

 The four strategic aims will be reviewed biannually by the research group in conjunction with the
 Associate Dean Research and Impact Leader to ensure progress towards their fulfilment.

 Approaches to Impact
 The group has a well-developed impact strategy based on understanding, dissemination, and
 evidence. The EP/T impact team is led by Priestley. In order to develop understandings of impact
 amongst the group, the team holds regular seminars, contributes to the annual Research Away
 Day, and runs researcher development sessions on impact-related topics. It works with
 colleagues in the early stages of research proposal planning and development to ensure an
 alignment between research design and adoption of findings. The team also advises on collecting
 data which demonstrates research impact, and on how evidence can be gathered at different
 stages of research.

 The production of research in collaboration with stakeholder groups across different subject areas
 and methodologies has been central to EP/T’s impact strategy. Professional Learning, Leadership
 and Governance have co-produced research with local authority partners, and an ESRC-funded
 project on college governance is advised by an ‘Impact Group’ of key figures from government,
 further education, and employers. Educational Linguistics has worked with government and non-
 government partners in Colombia, Lebanon, and South Africa, who provide direct routes to
 influence language-in-education policy-making. Research commissioned by government policy
 makers (e.g. Welsh Government and the Irish National Curriculum Agency) has ensured that
 research findings inform national and local authority decision-making. Research with children and
 schools on rights and attainment has led to improvements in children’s lives . An indication of the
 strong reputation of our curriculum research lies in the fact that Scottish Government invited


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Priestley to conduct the Rapid Review of National Qualifications 2020 after COVID-19 forced a
 change in how students were assessed.

 The impact lead, Priestley, supports and evaluates the impact of engagement activities, including
 writing for a wide range of non-academic audiences, and engaging with mainstream and social
 media. The University provides training in writing for media, blogs, Twitter and Facebook, and in
 media presentation skills. A dedicated events fund supports the EP/T group in promoting its
 research through knowledge exchange meetings; a further fund finances knowledge exchange
 and evidence gathering activities, including surveys and workshops. For example, Mannion
 organised ‘Participation in decision making in Educational Settings?: beyond learner voice
 and pupil councils’ for 80 attendees including practitioners, school managers, policy
 advisors, local authority personnel, curriculum designers and academics in 2018. Workload
 allocation encourages academic staff to engage in impact activities. Colleagues on teaching and
 scholarship contracts are encouraged to support impact activities. Each semester, Impact
 Workshops enable colleagues to work together on impact planning and development.

 Targeted Faculty funding, peer mentoring, and a programme of researcher development leads to
 research with impact. Expertise with digital platforms, enhanced during the pandemic, enables us
 to build relationships with new and existing networks, as we ensure that end-users are involved in
 all areas of the research process. Our focus is on extending international pathways to impact, and
 ensuring effective costing of international impact activities in research grants. We are supported
 in this endeavour by Faculty investment. ,

 Open Research
 The University supports an ambitious publishing programme, and is committed to making outputs
 of research publicly accessible via the green and gold Open Access routes, in a manner which is
 compliant with funder and publisher, and with ethical and legal requirements. An Article
 Processing Charge Fund supports Open Access publishing via the gold route. Since 2014, 26
 articles have been published by the EP/T colleagues via the gold route. The green route is the
 well-established institutional repository, STORRE, and all researchers deposit research outputs
 there within three months of acceptance for publication. Automated embargo mechanisms and the
 option of metadata-only records ensure the appropriate level of openness and sharing is fully
 supported. A persistent identifier and citation are provided.

 Research integrity
 All research proposals are subject to internal peer review. Larger proposals are given enhanced
 support at University level. This structure has the dual effect of ensuring proposals have the
 highest chance of success, and that methodologies and approaches are innovative, rigorous and
 robust.

 The culture of the group promotes high levels of research integrity. Discussions of research ethics
 are central to EP/T meetings, and to the development of research ideas. International expertise in
 research with vulnerable groups means researchers in EP/T have significant experience of ethics
 in research practice, including expertise in appropriate elicitation of informed consent from
 vulnerable participants, such as unaccompanied migrant minors, in intercultural ethics, and in
 researching digital contexts.

 Section 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 The EP/T Research Group comprises 24 research active staff: seven Professors, five Senior
 Lecturers, and twelve Lecturers, including four ECRs, all of whom are on long-term contracts. A
 priority for EP/T is to sustain a research environment that facilitates high-quality research by
 academic researchers at different points in their careers. To this end, and in addition to the
 research support structures provided by the University via the Institute of Advanced Studies and

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Research and Innovation Directorate, EP/T supports the development of research grant
 proposals, runs a seminar programme, mentors new researchers, provides supportive peer
 review, and organises writing workshops.

 The aim of our staffing strategy is to build research capacity in the core areas of Professional
 Learning, Leadership, & Governance, Curriculum, Educational Linguistics, Learning for Complex
 Futures, and Children’s Rights and Participation. It does so through: (1) recruiting established
 academics in these areas, (2) ensuring progression (3) supporting ECRs to plan successful
 academic careers, and (4) developing existing colleagues’ research ambition and skills.

     1. Researchers with established research profiles have been recruited to the group since
        2014 (Blackledge, Copland, Creese, McCartney). These colleagues provide enhanced
        expertise and leadership and, with existing senior staff, support colleagues who are ECR
        or mid-career researchers.
     2. During the REF period, we have supported colleagues to promotion. I’Anson has been
        promoted from Senior Lecturer to Associate Professor; Drew, Thompson and Mannion
        have all been promoted to Senior Lecturer.
     3. ECRs with strong research potential have also been recruited (Hennessy, Lowing,
        Xenofontos). The EP/T Research Group protects their time, thorough reduced teaching
        and administrative workloads. in order that they can dedicate time to research. They also
        receive enhanced funds for conference and network meetings, and dedicated support
        with developing research bids. They are assigned a senior colleague to act as a mentor
        and critical friend to support their progress, including the development of grant proposals
        and publication and impact plans. Mentors also identify opportunities for interdisciplinary
        research, through connecting them with colleagues in the Faculty, and across University-
        wide research groups. ECRs serve a probationary period, with regular meetings to
        support achievement of an agreed research plan and address any concerns .
     4. All staff develop research plans and a strategy for skills development through the
        University’s annual appraisal scheme, Achieving Success. This is a key aspect of the
        Faculty Research Strategy and Equality and Diversity Action Plan. Achieving Success
        provides an opportunity for staff to discuss in detail with two senior colleagues their
        research careers in the short, medium, and long term, through: reflecting on their
        achievements over the year; developing research proposals in line with their career
        stage; and discussing publication and impact plans. During Achieving Success meetings
        staff are also encouraged to identify research training needs, to plan and apply for
        research leave, and to discuss promotion plans. Senior staff create a positive
        environment for Achieving Success meetings, noting successes, and offering support for
        research planning. Following our EDI action plan, all staff are asked about whether/how
        any protected characteristic might be impacting their success and how the Faculty might
        best respond.

  The group also benefits from research staff on fixed-term contracts, who are supported at
  University level through the HR Excellence in Research Action Plan. The group maximises
  opportunities for development of these staff through supporting continuity of employment by:
  publishing job opportunities in the weekly newsletter; funding the Fixed Term Contract
  Researchers’ Forum, which reports to RKEC; and including these colleagues in the Achieving
  Success process. The majority of staff on fixed-term contracts are women, and their continuing
  development is central to our commitment to equality and diversity.

  The EP/T Research Group also continues to benefit from the participation of honorary and
  Emeritus Professors. Edwards, Fenwick, Field, and Humes are all members of the Faculty Peer
  Review College, which supports colleagues with producing high-quality publications. They are
  all regularly consulted for advice on research strategy, and their work continues to inform the
  group’s impact activities.



                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  We also pursue international development opportunities for staff. For example, Blackledge and
  Creese’s recent awards of Distinguished Visiting Fellows at the Advanced Research
  Collaborative, The Graduate Center, City University of New York (2020) have led to international
  collaborations and the publication of a monograph.

  Other research support
  The University research leave programme means that staff can apply for 6 months leave after
  six consecutive semesters; after 12 consecutive semesters colleagues can apply for 12 months
  research leave. The Faculty awards research leave strategically and uses it to enhance
  research excellence with strong impact. Applications for research leave are developed during
  Achieving Success meetings, and target ambitious research funding proposals, produce high-
  quality outputs, and engage in research impact activity. For example, Watson’s research on FE
  governance was enabled by research leave, together with funding from the Faculty to support
  travel of partners/participants, and training in advanced research methods. Since 2014, eleven
  staff from the group have benefited from research leave. In addition to the University leave
  programme, the group introduced (in 2018/19) an opportunity for an annual 1-4 week mini-
  research leave, for which colleagues must agree targets with the Research Group Leader
  (Watson). This allowance is particularly valuable for new members of the EP/T group, and ECRs.
  To      date,          five    staff     have      benefited   from     mini-research    leave.

  All staff, including Contract Researchers, are encouraged to apply for funds provided by the
  Faculty to attend conferences. Group members can attend one national conference per year and
  an international conference biennially, supported by this funding.

  Research training includes regular writing retreats (facilitated by Michael, who has developed
  expertise in writing support through Faculty investment), including ‘First Friday Workshops’, a
  forum for developing high quality writing in the social sciences. The Faculty has continued to
  develop capacity and training amongst postgraduate and early career researchers, particularly
  through mentoring and joint writing, and PGRs are encouraged to write for publication from an
  early stage in doctoral studies.
  University of Stirling has been awarded the HR Excellence in Research Award by the European
  Commission, recognising its work towards implementation of the seven principles of the
  Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. University-wide researcher
  development for staff and postgraduate students has been enhanced by the establishment of
  the Institute for Advanced Studies, which extends research training opportunities to the Faculty
  in methodology, ethics and data protection. The Faculty supports an annual seminar series, to
  which Education contributes, and a regular ‘Research Bites’ programme, which responds to
  specific research needs such as methodological training and developing research bids in
  response to specific calls.

  Research Students
  The group has a large international and interdisciplinary community of post-graduate research
  (PGR) students, across a number of Master’s level and doctoral programmes. The group has
  focused on attracting greater numbers of high quality doctoral students over the last three years
  and currently there are 57 research students, from Brazil, Saudi Arabia, Japan, China, Italy,
  Malaysia, Turkey, Oman, Kenya, Malaysia, Spain, Thailand, as well as the UK. Training is
  provided to staff to reflect upon and adapt practice in a culturally responsive manner in the
  provision of doctoral supervision.




                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  The table shows the number of doctoral completions:


                           2013-    2014-     2015-     2016-17   2017-18   2018-19   2019-20
                           14       15        16
     Number of research    3        5         2.5       8.5       5.5       5.5       7.5
      doctoral degrees
    awarded by academic
         year (PhD)
     Number of research    4        2         4         0         2.5       1         2
      doctoral degrees
    awarded by academic
         year (EdD)

  The group has highly structured approaches to support the development of PGR students.
  Master’s research programmes are fully compliant with ESRC requirements for the provision of
  research skills training, and were commended in an audit by the Scottish Graduate School for
  Social Science in 2017. The 1+3, +3.3 modes, linked to the MSc in Applied Social Research,
  provide a rigorous grounding in research methods prior to commencing doctoral study, as does
  the PhD in TESOL Research and Applied Linguistics. All first year doctoral students join a wider
  cohort of social science PGRs, which builds community and identifies training needs. To promote
  inclusion these groups are accessible face-to-face or via synchronous video-conferencing,
  allowing part-time and distance-learning students to participate and benefit. Through the cohort
  programme students engage with the Research Group and broader Faculty, offer and receive
  peer support, and think beyond the boundaries of their own study. PGRs have high levels of civic
  engagement (e.g. applications for external funding to hold events, representation on national
  research bodies such as SERA/BERA). Mannion is the EP/T’s appointed doctoral tutor,
  supporting PGRs and coordinating administrative processes.

  Doctoral students can study either full- or part-time, and have a choice of two pathways: PhD by
  research thesis, or PhD by publication. As well as traditional PhD study, there are two named
  cohort-based doctoral routes, the EdD and the innovative PhD in TESOL Research and Applied
  Linguistics, both including taught modules. All programmes are managed by academic directors,
  who take a proactive role in student development. For example, TESOL Research and Applied
  Linguistics has monthly meetings for PGRs, run by the students, at which they discuss data,
  work in progress, and other relevant matters. PGRs undergo Annual Progress Review from an
  independent panel to support their development, and to ensure that the supervision they receive
  is of excellent quality.

  All doctoral researchers are invited to join the EP/T Research Group. Four PGRs sit on the
  group’s organising committee. Through their participation they develop organisational skills,
  academic writing, and understanding of the funding, publishing and impact landscape. PGRs
  have a ring-fenced budget which they use to publish their work, attend training events, and
  present at national and international conferences. Students have presented at conferences
  including BERA, ECER, BAAL, and EuroACS. PGR students use dedicated funds to run their
  own events, and PGRs have led successful applications for external funding (e.g. BSA, BERA)
  for training events with invited high profile external speakers. Many doctoral students take up
  international or government placement opportunities (e.g. successful applications for Scottish
  Graduate School for Social Science internships), providing them with significant skills
  development, and preparation for future careers.


  Facilities for PGR students are extensive. Doctoral students are allocated office space and a
  computer within the Faculty. The University provides a dedicated training room, the PGR zone
  in the University library, which hosts training events, and which is available to students. EDI

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  principles led to enhanced provision for PGR study space during COVID. PGRs benefit from the
  resources and training programme of the University’s Institute for Advanced Studies and the
  institutional Research Compass System, which engages PGRs with the VITAE researcher
  development framework principles, enabling them to audit their training needs, and plan a
  strategic programme of training.

  Numbers of full-time PGR students have increased steadily since 2014 (nine more doctoral
  students graduated in the current REF period than in the previous one). This reflects a proactive
  approach to recruitment (e.g. University PG Open Day, Find a PhD event, Live Chat event,
  attendance at professional conferences, and a new online applications process) as well as the
  research programmes offered by EP/T colleagues. The University’s Careers and Employability
  Service provides dedicated advice. All academic staff receive supervision training, and each
  supervises PGR students, with a target of 2.5 students per FTE. A change since 2014 has been
  the introduction of a co-supervision system, with both supervisors fully involved and attending
  all advisory meetings. This affords opportunities for cross-disciplinary supervision (current
  examples include Education and Psychology, Environmental Science and Criminology), and for
  ECRs to be mentored in supervision.

  The Faculty is an active partner in the ESRC Scottish Graduate School of Social Sciences
  Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP), a consortium of ten Scottish universities. Priestley was the
  Education Pathway Convenor from 2014-17. The Faculty’s involvement allows all PGRs to
  access training and resources. EP/T Research Group members contribute to Scotland-wide
  doctoral training in the DTP, for example in advanced qualitative methods, visual methods,
  linguistic ethnography, interdisciplinary research, and educational theory. The EP/T Research
  Group has been successful in securing DTP funded studentships. Between 2014 and 2018, 12
  were awarded to EP/T (Open competition, 7; Collaborative, 4; ESRC, 1). This represents nearly
  half of the studentships awarded in Education to the six eligible partner institutions during this
  period. Collaborative studentship partners include Education Scotland, and the Scottish
  Qualifications Authority. The EP/T Research Group has been successful in attracting other
  sources of external funding for PGR study. These include the Scottish Government (with match-
  funded studentships in the Stirling Network for Curriculum Studies), and a Commonwealth
  Scholarship.

  PGR students also contribute to teaching on the undergraduate Education Studies and
  Sociology programmes. They supervise Master’s dissertations and can team-teach with
  established academics. EDI principles inform the recruitment and selection of students for these
  paid roles. As a result of this rounded approach, our PGR students are highly employable. Many
  have progressed to academic and other careers, and since 2014, three have taken up
  permanent positions in the Faculty (Galloway, Michael, and Wilson).


  Equality and Diversity
  The Faculty established an Equality and Diversity (E&D) Action Plan in April 2017, and in 2020
  was successfully awarded an Athena SWAN Bronze Award, recognising an ambitious strategic
  plan for improving equality, diversity and inclusion. Activity completed to date has focused on
  advancing gender equality. Future activity will be intersectional to ensure a supportive and
  inclusive research environment for all. Key actions of our E&D plan are addressing structural
  barriers to promotion and advancement from doctoral students through to Chairs (through, for
  example, allocating University funding to cover teaching for one semester after colleagues return
  from maternity leave) supporting continuing professional development for fixed-term research
  staff (most of whom are women); widening accessibility of training materials to doctoral students
  studying part time, and embedding equality discussions into all committees with decision-making
  power. As part of the E&D Action Plan, and in line with our commitment to the Researcher
  Concordat, EP/T reviewed its approach to mentoring, ensuring all ECRs on probation have a
  senior colleague, and that mentoring is extended to all researchers. Embedding equality and
  diversity in policy and practice is reflected in our approach to REF output selection. UoA strategy

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  determines that all staff should be supported to develop excellent research, and to generate
  high-quality outputs from this research for submission to the REF and it uses both annual
  appraisal, Achieving Success, and the EP/T Research Group to ensure that this happens.




 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 Since 2014, the EP/T group has been awarded over £4,200,000 in research grants (£1,247,468
 expenditure in the assessment period). Ambition in this area has also increased. In 2014/15
 colleagues submitted research bids to the value of £2,203,000; in 2018/19, the value of bids was
 £3,145,000, which represents an increase of 43%. In 2020, 16 of 24 Education colleagues were
 in receipt of external research funding, and a strategic research aim is to support all colleagues to
 attract research funding appropriate to their career level. To do so, EP/T is focused on investing
 in and supporting researchers to work collaboratively across disciplines and on enabling ECRs to
 become independent principal investigators. The University’s investment in colleagues with
 histories of success in winning research council funds has strengthened the group’s capacity to
 support the development of high-quality research proposals (e.g. Swanson received mentoring
 support from Blackledge and Creese as she prepared a successful ESRC/GCRF funding
 proposal, awarded £998,611 in 2019).

 In 2018 the Faculty introduced a Peer Review College. All grant applications are now submitted
 for rigorous critical feedback before they are signed off by the Dean. ECRs in particular have
 benefited from this process. University investment in a professional grant-writing service has also
 supported colleagues in research proposal writing skills, e.g. Watson’s successful bid for ESRC
 funds (awarded 2018: £812,514) received useful critical commentary from the grant-writing service
 at the development stage.

 The group has established strategic research links nationally and internationally, leading to
 inter/transdisciplinary synergies, and ensuring benefits of scale. Much of this work has been
 enabled by the University’s GCRFSpark, Connect, Connect + and Escalator schemes , which we
 use to fund networking and seedcorn activity. For example, in 2017 Copland brought academics
 from India, Malawi, Mexico and UK to Stirling to work on an international research council bid
 through this scheme; in 2019 Creese, Copland, and Blackledge were funded under this scheme
 to bring researchers from South Africa and Mozambique to Stirling to collaborate on a GCRF
 research proposal.

 International and interdisciplinary work is particularly suited to the development of larger research
 consortia. For example, the University of Cape Town and University of the Western Cape are
 partners on the Water and Fire project, and colleagues from universities in Bangladesh, Malawi,
 Mexico and Uzbekistan are partners in the English as a School Subject project.

 Infrastructure
 The research infrastructure supports all staff to produce high-quality research. In terms of
 organisation, research is supported by both a top-down and bottom-up approach. University
 Research Committee makes decisions, following consultation, about research strategy. The
 Associate Dean Research (Copland) sits on this committee, along with another EP/T professor
 (Blackledge), and they disseminate key information to the Faculty via the Research and
 Knowledge Exchange Committee and weekly Faculty Newsletter, which has a dedicated research
 space. The EP/T Research Group meets monthly to nurture and support research activity.
 Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee ensures effective communication between the
 concerns of the EP/T Research Group and University Research Committee. Academic staff are
 supported by Research and Innovation Services, who dedicate staff to work with individual
 Faculties. These colleagues ensure a steady flow of information about research funding

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 opportunities to the Faculty, support the Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee and
 management of funded projects. and administer the Conference Travel Fund. Conference/event
 planning and organisation is provided by Professional Services Staff in the Faculty.

 The structure of planning and investment for research in the group is designed to build distinctive
 areas of work:

    •   Investment in three professors and an ECR in the field of Educational Linguistics
        demonstrates the Faculty’s commitment to establishing Educational Linguistics at Stirling
        on the global stage. This has brought rewards in research funding, and has established a
        significant critical mass of researchers. The research group provided resources to host a
        course in Linguistic Ethnography, funded through the SGSSS Scottish Doctoral Training
        Partnership, which attracted doctoral and early career scholars from universities across
        Scotland.
    •   Investment in the Professional Learning, Leadership and Governance cluster has
        generated innovative research impacts, notably with the development of the ‘Critical
        Collaborative Professional Enquiry’ (CCPE) model of professional learning.
    •   Investment to establish The Stirling Network for Curriculum Studies has brought together
        international curriculum scholars from Europe, North America and Australasia, and acted
        as host for the European Conference on Curriculum Studies. This group was supported in
        providing significant input to national curriculum policy and capacity-building work with
        schools and teachers in Ireland, Scotland and Wales.

 All research staff hold a Worktribe account. Introduced in 2018, Worktribe is a comprehensive
 research management system which records research activity (e.g. publications, projects,
 impacts) and guides the development of bids through collaboration between Research &
 Innovation Services, the Faculty Research Manager, and academic staff. This infrastructure
 provides an efficient environment for writing and managing research proposals.


 Facilities
 All members of the EP/T Research Group are offered private offices: office doors signal
 membership of the EDI committee, and when on leave the EDI committee signpost queries to
 other members of the EDI team. There are ample meeting rooms. The Iris Murdoch Building, part
 of the Faculty, is a dedicated conference space which holds 160 people, and has break-out rooms.
 It is frequently used by the EP/T Research Group for research, knowledge exchange, and impact
 events. EP/T takes advantage of the Faculty’s Common Room to host seminars and guest
 speakers. Doctoral students and visiting scholars are all provided with workstations, and there is
 provision for them to book rooms to host research events. The University provides a large
 dedicated space in the library for the exclusive use of doctoral students. All buildings are fully
 accessible for disabled staff and visitors.


 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration with communities, practitioners, and decision-makers is fundamental to the
 approach to research which underpins the work of the EP/T group, informing the production of
 high-quality research which has clear implications for impact in educational contexts locally,
 nationally, across the UK and internationally. We do so by: leading and participating in research
 collaborations and networks; fostering interdisciplinary research; and contributing to policy and
 practice through engagement with research users

 Research Collaborations and Networks
 Locally, research collaborations are characterised by depth, and achieved through close
 participation and collaboration with key end-users. Partnerships have been built with local

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 authorities, including a formally constituted partnership with Central Local Authority Stirling
 Partnership. This partnership has led to government-funded research in teacher professional
 education, with ensuing societal benefits. This has significantly enriched the research
 environment, ensuring the relevance and impact of research outcomes. In Scotland, leadership of
 initiatives and collaboration with other academics in research include projects funded by Carnegie
 Trust and the Scottish Universities Insight Institute, which stimulates knowledge exchange.
 Research partnerships with other universities in Scotland, across the UK, and internationally are
 a regular feature of funded research projects.

 Research networks
 Internationally, EP/T academic staff have major roles in a wide-range of national/international
 collaborative research networks, including the European Education Research Association
 Curriculum network; the European Association for Curriculum Studies; European COST Actions:
 Interventions for children with difficulties learning their first language ; Citizen Science to Promote
 Creativity, Scientific Literacy, and Innovation throughout Europe; the International Congress on
 Mathematical Education Topic Study Group - Equity in Mathematics Education; the Visual
 Sociology Research Group of the International Sociological Association; International Consortium
 on Language and Superdiversity. The international research network ProPEL was founded by
 EP/T colleagues, and now supports a biennial international conference.

 Academic researchers in EP/T are regularly asked to examine doctoral theses. Since 2014,
 around 100 theses have been examined in the UK (including at the Universities of Warwick,
 Exeter, Bristol, Birmingham, York and Newcastle) and overseas ( Australia, the Netherlands,
 Norway, South Africa, and Sweden).


 Leading and participation in organisations aimed at furthering research in the discipline
 The research expertise of EP/T Research Group staff is recognised and valued in the UK and
 internationally. Members of EP/T Research Group hold positions as visiting scholars in the UK
 and internationally. Copland is Visiting Professor at the University of York, St. John; Gardner is
 Visiting Professor at Queen’s University Belfast and Adjunct Professor at Dublin City University;
 Husband was Visiting Scholar at the University of Tasmania in 2019; Priestley was Visiting
 Professor, Linnaeus University, Sweden, 2018-19. Thompson is Adjunct Professor, Faculty of
 Education, University of Alberta (2013-present), and Swanson was International Research
 Associate, Nelson Mandela University (2013-2016), and Visiting Research Fellow, Moore Institute,
 National University of Ireland, Galway (June/July, 2016).

 Members of the group are regularly invited to contribute to the discipline through assessment of
 research funding proposals. Within the UK, Fenwick was appointed to the ESRC Council between
 2013-2016 and currently sits on ESRC-FCDO Raising Learning Outcomes assessment panel
 (2018-2021). Creese, Edwards and Watson are members of ESRC’s Peer Review College.
 Colleagues also review for Carnegie Research and National Institute for Health Research, College
 of Experts in the UK and internationally they review for research councils in , Australia, Austria,
 Belgium, Canada, Hong Kong, South Africa and for grant awarding bodies in Portugal. Watson
 has contributed to South Africa’s research quality assessment processes. Colleagues are able to
 bring their experience of assessment to the UoA to support colleagues who are writing research
 bids through feedback in the Faculty Peer Review College.

 Learned Journals
 Priestley is the Editor of the Curriculum Journal and is also on the board of Curriculum Inquiry.
 Ten EP/T members sit on the following editorial boards:British Educational Research Journal
 (Watson: Chair); Anthropology and Education Quarterly (Creese); Language and Education and
 Language Teaching (Copland); Studies in the Education of Adults (Galloway); Research in Post
 Compulsory Education and Journal of Teaching in Lifelong Learning (Husband); British Journal
 of Religious Education (I’Anson); The Sojo Journal: Educational Foundations and Social Justice


                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Education, Comparative and International Education Journal, Journal of European Curriculum
 Studies (Swanson).

 Learned Societies
 Our contribution to the research base is evidenced by the active participation of 20 EP/T members
 in a wide range of learned societies. Particularly noteworthy are fellowships awarded to Gardner
 (Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences, Fellow of the British Computer Society and Fellow of
 the Chartered Institute of Educational Assessors); Creese (Fellow of the Academy of Social
 Sciences), and McCartney (Fellow of the Royal College of Speech and Language
 Therapists).Other notable contributions include: Associate of Royal College of Science (Watson);
 former President and Vice-President of the British Educational Research Association (Gardner);
 member of the BERA Council from 2013 until 2017, and Chair of the Academic Publications
 committee from 2014-17; current Vice-President of the European Association for Curriculum
 Studies (Priestley ); member of the British Association for Applied Linguistics Executive from 2014
 – 2017 and current a member of the British Council English Language Advisory Board (Copland);
 Member of the European Institute for Outdoor Adventure Education and Experiential Learning
 (Mannion); Convenor of the EERA Network 25 (Children’s Rights in Education, 2010-2017
 (I’Anson)); President of the Association for Research in Post Compulsory Education (Husband).

 Conferences and seminars
 Conferences and seminars are key strategic means of fostering and enhancing academic
 capacity. Significant resource is made available to encourage staff to host and attend international
 conferences and seminars. Annually, EP/T Research Group staff attend key conferences including
 AERA, BERA and ECER, and make a significant contribution through leading and participating in
 Special Interest Groups. EP/T members have presented their research at over 300 conferences
 since 2014.

 Presentations
 14 EP/T members have been invited to deliver keynote lectures at prestigious conferences and
 seminars in the UK and internationally. Highlights include: International Conference on the
 Sociolinguistics of Immigration, Rapallo (Genova), Italy, 2016 (Blackledge); 53rd Annual Congress
 of ASOCOPI, Cartagena, Colombia (Blackledge and Creese); 2nd and 4th Young Learners
 Conference (2017 and 2019), Chile (Copland); 3rd International conference of ARPCE, Oxford
 University, 2018 (Galloway) and Centre for Assessment Research and Policy in Education, Dublin
 City University, 2017 (I’Anson). Mannion was keynote at conference: ‘Existing evidence about
 the effects of Udeskole - an international perspective’, Denmark (2018), and Priestley presented
 the keynote at ‘Teachers Matter - But how?’ Conference, Linnaeus University, 2014, and at 2nd
 European Conference on Curriculum Studies, 2015, Porto. Swanson delivered the plenary
 address at the 69th Conference of the International Commission for the Improvement of
 Mathematics Study and Teaching, Berlin (2017).

 Hosting conferences
 EP/T Research Group members have hosted international conferences, with the support of the
 facilities of the Iris Murdoch Building. For example, in 2019 Blackledge, Copland, Creese and
 Lowing hosted an international, interdisciplinary conference at Stirling, ‘Languaging in Times of
 Change’, which attracted more than 100 researchers from 23 countries. In addition, colleagues
 have chaired conferences held in other institutions. Copland launched and chaired the first three
 Ethnography, Language and Communication Conferences and chaired the BAAL Annual Meeting
 (2015); Galloway hosted the EU-funded Recognition For Adult Educators Conference (2015),the
 Standing Conference for University Teaching and Research in the Education of Adults, in
 partnership with the Scottish Government's Strategic Forum for Adult Learning (2018) and 100
 Years of Radical Adult Education in Scotland: Building Hope for the Future (2019); Priestley hosted
 the European Association of Curriculum Studies conference, 2017, which attracted 150
 international curriculum scholars. Husband organises and leads the biennial international
 conference of the Association of Research in Post Compulsory Education.


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Prizes and other recognition.
 Watson won the Sage Sociology Prize for Innovation and/or excellence in 2016 and Fenwick the
 Critical HRD Award from the USA Academy of the Academy of Human Resource Development
 in 2020. Published papers by EP/T Research Group members have achieved top rankings on
 journal impact measures. For example, a paper by Drew, Priestley, and Michael was chosen by
 the Emerald group as one of the 50 most impactful articles of the last 50 years; a paper by
 Priestley, Minty, and Eager appeared in the Routledge Education Class as the most read article
 in 2015; an article by Creese & Blackledge in Modern Language Journal received the most
 citations from 2016-2019 for any article in the journal; an edited collection by Copland and
 colleagues was a runner up for the BAAL Book Prize, 2016. An Honorary Professor in Education,
 Humes, was awarded the highly prestigious John Nisbet Fellowship by the British Educational
 Research Association in 2019, for his ‘outstanding contribution to educational research, and its
 application for the improvement of practice and public benefit'.

 Wider contributions to the economy and society
 EP/T Research Group makes a significant contribution to the development of policy and practice
 in several research areas. In Scotland, for example colleagues have:

    •   Worked in partnership with the Scottish Government bringing expertise to the national
        programme of school headship preparation and with the General Teaching Council for
        Scotland, developing and revising national teacher competence frameworks (Drew)
    •   Contributed to government consultations, and appeared as expert witnesses at the
        Scottish Parliament (Priestley; Watson).
    •   Presented to the Scottish Parliament Goodison Group, a charity dedicated to lifelong
        learning, in the Scottish Parliament (Gardner).
    •   Provided representation on: the Scottish Government Children’s Rights and Participation
        Research Group, National Implementation Group on Outdoor Learning, the Advisory
        Group on Intergenerational Learning and Education Scotland’s Empowering Learners
        Policy Writing Group (Mannion); New Scots Refugee Integration Strategy Evidence Group
        (Copland); the National Strategic Forum for Adult Learning (Professional Development
        (Galloway); Education Scotland Professional Learning and Leadership and the National
        Design Group (Drew); Scottish National Committee Self-evaluation Framework for Initial
        Teacher Education (Xenofontos).

 In the UK more widely, Blackledge reported to the Everyday Entrepreneurs Inquiry of the All Party
 Parliamentary Small Shops Group at the House of Commons. He was also invited to speak at a
 round table discussion with the Department for Communities and Local Government and the
 Home Office. Swanson was invited by Rt Hon Minister Alistair Burt, DfID, to contribute to the
 Development Education Roundtable, Whitehall, in 2017. Creese participated in a Guardian/British
 Academy Live Q&A online debate: How can we better support community languages? (2015).
 Watson is working with the Association of Colleges, Colleges Wales, Colleges Scotland, and the
 Chartered Governance Institute (ICSA) to ensure the impact of her research on college
 governance. In Wales, Priestley is a member of the Welsh Government Curriculum and
 Assessment Advisory Group, and Drew has substantially influenced the development of policy
 and practice for teacher professional learning.

 Internationally, Blackledge and Creese conducted research in collaboration with Universities
 South Africa, which informed changes to language-in-education policy in higher education in South
 Africa. This research was selected by AHRC as an Impact Case Study (2019). Swanson is on the
 International Advisory Board: UNESCO Chair in Democracy, Global Citizenship and
 Transformative Education. Drew was invited by European Commission (TAIEX) as an
 International Expert on School Leadership to the SRSP Workshop on reform of school leadership
 organised in co-operation with The Lithuanian Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Copland
 was part of a delegation of young learner experts invited to engage with the Chilean Ministry of
 Education (2016). Xenofontos is a member of the Executive Committee of the Greek Society of


                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Researchers in Mathematics Education (ΕΝΕΔΙΜ). Priestley has regularly advised and written
 policy papers for the Irish National Council for Curriculum and Assessment.

 Members of EP/T engage with policy makers, headteachers, teachers and education academics
 through a range of media. Priestley’s blog is widely read; it attracted nearly 30,000 visitors in
 2019. The post ‘What do the Pisa results tell us about Scottish education?’ and ‘Curriculum
 narrowing in Scotland’s secondary schools: what exactly is happening?’ were reblogged by Times
 Educational Supplement. Mannion, Priestley and Watson have all written for The Conversation:
 Mannion’s piece on ‘Mud pies and green spaces’ was tweeted 533 times and received over 20,000
 likes on Facebook. Mannion has also been interviewed by BBC Radio Scotland about the effects
 of greenspace on learning. Watson was an invited Guest on Thinking Allowed (Radio 4) to talk
 about humour as a methodology for social sciences (2015).


 Concluding comments
 Since REF 2014, the Education research group at Stirling has achieved its research aims and has
 met with considerable success in bidding for awards, including major grants from UK research
 councils. The Education Practice/Theory Research Group consistently influences policy and
 practice in Scotland and beyond. Academically, it has produced award winning research articles
 and supported ECRs to publish regularly and ambitiously. Even in these uncertain times, the group
 has flourished and has been awarded significant funding to carry out research into the educational
 impacts of COVID-19. Our ethos has always been to deliver research with tangible benefits to
 society, focusing on inclusion and equality, and going forward we are well-placed to deliver
 challenge-led research which will have a positive social impact.




                                                                                           Page 15
