Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Huddersfield

 Unit of Assessment: UoA11 Computer Science and Informatics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and Structure
 The Unit’s research at The University of Huddersfield is centred in the Department of Computer
 Science within the School of Computing and Engineering, with all staff entered being members
 of that department. The Unit has grown significantly in research mass within the census period,
 with 27.2 FTE staff being entered compared to 14.4 FTE in 2014. The Unit benefits from strong
 ties to the School’s other department, Engineering and Technology, with which it shares some
 research groups and funded projects.

 Computer Science research submitted to the Unit is organised in several groupings:

    1. PARK: (Planning, Autonomy and Representation of Knowledge), the largest and longest
       running group, with specialisms in Automated Planning and Semantic Web, led by
       Antoniou and McCluskey. It developed our Impact Case Study “New AI technologies for
       enriching and recovering value from urban data with applications to traffic management",
       and recently opened two application-focussed Centres with external partners, the Centre
       for Intelligent Transport Management (CITM), and the Centre of Artificial Intelligence for
       Mental Health (CAIMH).
    2. CVIC: (Centre for Visual and Immersive Computing), with specialisms in real-time CCTV
       analysis, augmented reality and machine vision for smart factory automation, led by Xu,
       who developed our Impact Case Study "Enabling commercial impact from innovations in
       visual computing".
    3. CCS: (Centre for Cyber Security), a recently established Centre with specialisms in
       applying AI techniques to intrusion detection and access control, led by Parkinson;
    4. CIndA: (Centre for Industrial Analytics), a recently established Centre with specialisms in
       IoT and Cloud Architectures, and strong links to CERN, led by Hill and Lane.
    5. CMDS (Centre for Mathematics and Data Science), a joint venture with Engineering and
       Technology to support mathematical research and teaching within the School, whose
       members include Murtagh and Titarenko.
    6. TAML (Technology Acceptance and Mobile Learning) research group, whose leaders
       Ward and Lu created our Impact Case Study "Enabling better mobile learning for digital
       skills development".

 Development of the Unit’s Research and Impact Strategy

 The Department of Business Energy and Industrial Strategy first issued a policy document in
 2013 outlining their envisioned global grand challenges. In September 2019 this document was
 updated with primary grand challenges. The University’s long term strategy has been based on
 supporting “areas of strategic research importance” (ASRIs), consistent with these global grand
 challenges, to foster an interdisciplinary societal underpinning of research throughout the
 University.

 The ASRIs relevant to the Unit must be viewed in a multi-disciplinary context, and include
 Artificial Intelligence, Cyber Security, Internet of Things and Cloud Computing, Intelligent


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Manufacturing and Maintenance, Autonomous Systems, Data Science, Big Data
 Analytics and Visualisation. The University has published a 5-year strategy map with
 clear aims in each area of the University’s activities (cf Institutional Level Statement -
 ILS). The University’s long-term vision has research growth at its core, influencing our
 objectives below. The ILS contextualises this research focus: no academic members of
 staff are on teaching only contracts, and 100% of all academic staff are to be publishing
 at international excellence levels. For the Unit’s staff this translates to the following
 strategy with clear objectives:

 1) Structure research around Research Centres with an ASRI focus: the structure of the Unit
    into a group of subject-related Centres provides the intellectual support for academics to
    grow within an environment which fosters collaborative research. The Unit initially had two
    centres covering ASRIs (PARK and CVIV) at the start of this census period and since then
    we have sought to expand these to include other ASRIs. This leads to our first 2 objectives:

       obj-a) consolidation and further investment in established research centres.
       obj-b) cultivation of new interdisciplinary areas of both research and impact, in line with
        University ASRIs.

 2) Steer research activity to being pervasive and outward-facing among academic staff: actions
    such as internal funding and new staff recruitment are focussed around the research centre
    ethos, with all staff being attached to existing centres, or research groups with the potential
    to achieve centre status. Collaboration with national and international partners will be
    encouraged to augment internal support and mentorship. This leads to our third objective,
    which is a direct mapping of the University KPI on academic staff:

       obj-c) increase the number of academic staff active at international level in computer
        science research to include all academic staff.

 3) Focus the activities of Centres on achieving both academic, economic and societal impact:
    centres primarily must be based on the research of international excellence, from which we
    will then seek to achieve societal economic impact, utilising an interdisciplinary focus. This
    leads to our 4th and 5th objectives:

       obj-d) increase significantly the societal and economic impact of our research activities
        both through established and through new research centres.
       obj-e) increase significantly the academic impact of our research activities both through
        international collaboration and quality and quantity of outputs.

 Quantitatively, we equate the success of our strategy and the achievement of our objectives to
 the doubling of metrics (funding, PhDs, internationally excellent publications, etc) between 2014
 and 2021, and commit to a similar increase for the next period.

 Current Research Growth and Vitality

 To measure whether we are succeeding, firstly we can compare our performance using the
 aspirations within the REF5 template for REF2014, and secondly, we show how during this
 census period we are meeting our strategy objectives.



                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our UoA 11 REF5 submitted to REF2014 stated that we would double our research outcomes
 by the end of the subsequent REF period. We have achieved these aims in good measure as
 follows:
          the number of PhDs awarded per year has more than doubled
          the amount of external research income per year has more than doubled
          the FTE of staff being submitted to REF2021 has almost doubled - 14.4 to 27.2
          the number of research students enrolled in July 2020 was at least 50% higher
            than the beginning of the current census period.

 As an illustration of how we are meeting objectives obj-a) and obj-e), during the census period,
 at least 44 outputs at CORE A / A* rated Artificial Intelligence conferences were published by
 University staff from the PARK research centre alone. The table below details the year (first
 row), the conference venues (second row) and the total publication numbers each year (third
 row), with multiple papers at the same venue also shown. This gives clear evidence of the vitality
 within PARK’s research environment which is leading to research of the highest quality.


     2014         2015            2016         2017        2018          2019           2020
   3*ICAPS        AAAI,        2*AAAI,        AAAI,       2*AAAI,        AAAI,         AAAI,
                 3*IJCAI,        ICLP,      2*ICAPS,      2*ICCS,       ICAPS,       2*ICAPS,
                  IROS           IEEE-        IJCAI,      2*IEEE-      AAMAS,          ICLP,
                              CDC, KR,      2*K-CAP,       FUZZ,       2*ICCS,         ICCS,
                                IJCNN        ESWC          ICLP        4*IEEE-         IEEE-
                                                                       FUZZ, K-        FUZZ
                                                                         CAP
       3            5             6             7             7           10             6


 To illustrate our progress on obj-b), we started the assessment period with existing
 strengths in Artificial Intelligence and Visual Computing (PARK, CVIC). Initial applications
 of automated planning to security led Parkinson to create the CCS which now includes
 areas of block chain, cryptography, and network security, and has supported the creation
 of new degrees in BSc Cyber Security with Computer Science and MSc Cyber Security
 and Digital Forensics. New professorial appointments Hill and Lane initiated research in
 cloud architectures and IoT and their application to complex industrial data, and forged
 the creation of the CIndA. New initiatives also include interdisciplinary research, for
 example two new Computer Science Department Professorial appointments Murtagh
 and Lee (Lee is submitted to UoA 12) have led to the establishment of the CMDS, a joint
 venture with Engineering. The School’s composition of Computing and Engineering has
 also led to interdisciplinarity, for example 4 staff in PARK are being submitted to UoA 12.
 An exemplar illustrating the effect of our strategy’s focus on interdisciplinary research is the new
 £1.8M Smart Rolling Stock Maintenance project funded via the European Regional Development
 Fund and supported by the Northern Powerhouse. The project is led by the University’s Institute
 of Railway Research (IRR) (UoA 12) in collaboration with PARK, and involves a range of key
 industry partners including Northern Trains Ltd, Porterbrook and Unipart Rail over the course of
 its three-year run (2020-2023). PARK leaders Antoniou and McCluskey are Co-Is with
 responsibility for delivering automated planning and scheduling solutions for rolling stock
 maintenance management, autonomy for the robotic devices involved in maintenance, and for
 ontology development underlying system and process models within maintenance depots.


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 With regard to obj-c), we can point to the body of staff being submitted to REF to indicate
 degree of pervasiveness of research culture through the department: of academic staff in
 the Department not REF-submitted, either their research falls into a different Unit, they
 are yet to secure a PhD, and/or they are at a teaching assistant or research assistant
 status.

 We are delivering on obj-d) as evidenced by our three Impact Case Studies (named
 above, in Transport Management, Mobile Learning and Computer Vision and
 Visualisation), as well as delivering significant impact to Health (Antoniou) and Security
 (Parkinson), detailed in the sections below.

 Support for Research Growth

 Researchers apply for funding via a wide variety of mechanisms as shown by our REF period
 funding profile in Section 3. To help researchers engage in these activities University
 investments in the School include a Research and Business Development team (the RBD team)
 which include two Business Development staff, a Research Development Manager, and an
 Impact Officer. Coupled with the growth of pre- and post-award teams to support
 academics/researchers in securing and delivering new research projects, these investments in
 supporting infrastructure have helped to deliver research income and consequent research
 impact (described in more detail in Section 3 of this document). The Unit (primarily though the
 RBD team) also draws heavily on the University central resources to support technology transfer
 activities, as well as the growing legal and contracts teams that help facilitate
 contractual/collaboration arrangements with industry partners to achieve impact.

 Three particular factors guarantee the sustainability of our progress in growth of research and
 impact:

 Institutional Support: Over the census period, the University has invested ~£7.9M institutionally
 in supporting delivery of its Research Strategy (via the “University Research Fund” or URF), and
 examples of the effectiveness of these funds are given in this document. This will continue into
 the next research period (cf ILS).

 New Application-Focussed Initiatives: 2020 saw the creation of several new, exciting initiatives in
 terms of interdisciplinary positioning of the Unit’s research outputs:

    ●   the creation of CITM (cf Context and Structure), a collaboration between members of
        PARK and staff from Kirklees Local Council, SimplifAI Systems Ltd, to deploy AI
        technology to autonomously perform urban transport management;
    ●   the creation of CAIMH (cf Context and Structure), a collaboration between members of
        PARK and the University’s School of Human and Health Sciences and South-West
        Yorkshire Partnership NHS Foundation Trust, in the application of AI techniques to
        ADHD, autism and suicide prevention;
    ●   the coordination of a Framework Research Collaboration Agreement by members of
        CindA with CERN’s Beam Instrumentation Group to deploy novel opto-electronic sensing
        and associated signal detection and processing.

 New Significant Research Awards: As well as the interdisciplinary £1.8M Smart Rolling Stock
 Maintenance award mentioned above, in 2020 Vallati received a prestigious UKRI Future
 Leaders Fellowship award (FLF) entitled “Artificial Intelligence for Autonomic Urban Traffic

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Control“. The FLF, in partnership with Transport for Greater Manchester, Kirklees Council, and
 SimplifAI Systems Ltd, will last four years, will last four years initially with the opportunity to
 extend to seven years, with a grant of £1.4M.

 Research Governance

 Research activity in the School is overseen by the School Research and Enterprise Committee
 (SREC). Membership of SREC includes all professors and others in the School with a strategic
 role. Day to day research management including allocation of University funding and oversight of
 REF activity is coordinated by the School-wide REF Operations Group. In the Unit, Centre
 Leaders are members of the SREC and the REF Operations Group, and with the Unit Co-
 ordinator and Head of Department are responsible for developing Unit-level strategies such as
 those in this document.

 Open Research

 The Unit is committed to ensuring publicly funded research is openly accessible, transparent,
 collaborative and efficient. We use systems the University has invested in to promote open
 research and open access to research outputs, and research data management (e.g. Elsevier’s
 PURE information system). Where conflicts may occur (e.g. industry funded research, new IP
 requiring protection prior to publication) support is provided to researchers from the RBD team to
 proactively manage issues within the context of the Institution’s policies.
 An example of open access is the Phishing Database set up by McCluskey’s research student
 Rami Mohammad in the UCI Machine Learning repository, with 100-200 downloads every month
 in the last year as evidenced in http://eprints.hud.ac.uk/id/eprint/24330/.
 An example of open research is Antoniou’s EU-funded project Semdata www.semdata-
 project.eu/ won under the FP7 Marie Curie International Researcher Exchange Scheme, in the
 area of semantic data management.

 Research Integrity

 The Unit is committed to having a culture that promotes research integrity, in line with the
 University’s commitment to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity. An institutional Code
 of Practice for Research provides the framework under which researchers operate, and all new
 projects and proposals are subject to ethical review and approval as part of a standard sign-off
 process prior to project approval. Where specific ethical concerns may exist, the School
 Research Ethics Committee provides guidance and support to researchers, as well as a link to
 the Institution’s University Research Committee which has overall governance of research
 integrity. As an example of this approach, Antoniou recently obtained IRAS approval for a
 project he is leading with South-West Yorkshire Partnership NHS Foundation Trust on suicide
 risk assessment.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy

 Staffing strategy within the Unit has underpinned our research strategy, with an ambition to
 grow high quality research with impact. Therefore, a successful research track-record is a pre-
 requisite for all new academic and researcher staff appointments, with all expected to have a
 PhD, and to have a research record that fits into our Centre-based culture (at the time of the

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 census, 90% of computer science academic staff had PhDs). In the case of senior
 appointments there is an expectation that track-record will include significant high-quality
 research outputs, evidence of securing competitively awarded research funding, and of
 successful collaboration with external partners. In the case of early career appointments,
 evidence of the potential to develop these outputs is a key element of the recruitment process.
 In order to achieve the increase in research over this REF period we have applied this strategy,
 increasing the number of full time Professors from 3 at the end of REF2014, to currently 9
 Professors, and making in total 13 new appointments out of the 29 (head count) submitted staff.
 These new appointments have built up strength in existing Centres, and enabled creation of
 new Centres such as the CindA and CMDS. Over the REF period our REF2014 QR funds and
 Central internal research funding support (URF) have been used predominantly to pay for
 research fellows to assist research centres deliver on their research growth. Three of these
 research fellows initially supported by internal funding are now members of the Full Time
 Lecturing staff (Chen-T, Tachzimidis and Bargiannis).

 The University introduced a Research Excellence Scheme (RESS) in 2016 which aims to
 provide opportunities to excellent research staff from other Institutions to join the University on
 indefinite contracts. During the REF period this has amounted to two professorial appointments
 in this Unit, linked to specific ASRIs: Murtagh (Data Science) and Lane (IoT and Cloud
 Computing). Murtagh subsequently formed the cross-school Mathematics Group which has
 added substantially to teaching and research and supports the CMDS.

 Staff development strategy for all staff pursuing a career in research

 In terms of staff development and advancement, the Unit adheres to the national Concordat to
 Support the Career Development of Researchers, which sets out the seven key principles for
 funders and employers of researchers in the UK. The Unit aims to support staff according to
 these principles whatever their career stage and believes a supportive culture enhances
 researcher performance, improves staff retention, and aids recruitment of both staff and post-
 graduate students. All staff undergo an annual personal development review/appraisal which
 includes consideration of research performance and planning, including identification of specific
 training and development needs/opportunities. Research performance is an important metric for
 successful career progression of all academics, with indicators such as research outputs,
 income and successful Post Graduate Researcher (PGR) supervision essential for progression
 to senior academic/researcher positions. During the current REF period 4 staff were promoted
 internally to Professor (Faber, Ward, Crampton, and Xu) and 3 to Reader (Parkinson, Vallati,
 and Venters).

 In terms of development and training, the Unit has access to a large institutional staff
 development portfolio which is mapped against the Vitae Researcher Development Framework.
 The Unit has actively engaged with the University’s initiative – for example, in an initiative with
 the Chartered Management Institute for senior and mid-level staff to achieve Level 7
 management qualifications and obtain Chartered Manager status. In the REF period 5 senior
 academics – Hill, Antoniou, Carter, Ward, and Crampton in the Unit have so far achieved this
 goal.

 The School’s RBD team has also established a Researchers’ Network (aimed primarily towards
 early career staff but open to all) and are running regular seminars and workshops on topics of
 interest and value to the community (e.g. the funding landscape, IP protection and exploitation,
 how to build industry partnerships, maximising impact from research, etc.). These are designed

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to supplement centrally provided training and are practical/operationally focussed, encouraging
 researchers to share their own experiences and challenges with colleagues. The team are at the
 heart of support for staff: their effectiveness was recognised by the University as they won the
 Outstanding Contribution to Research and Innovation Support award in 2015.

 Support for Career Development of Researchers

 All new academic staff appointees are provided with an introduction to the various support
 structures with regards to research such as Pre-Award, Post-Award, PURE and the RBD team.
 Each member of staff is assigned a mentor, and a research group (normally part of a Research
 Centre). Staff benefit from mentoring within the context of their respective research groups, all of
 which hold regular (typically weekly) seminar series where researchers can present and discuss
 their work with peers and their senior group members and by providing help as appropriate to
 identify key collaborators, establishing likely funding sources and assisting in drafting bids. Staff
 early in their career are actively encouraged and supported in gaining experience of supporting
 undergraduate and/or postgraduate teaching activities. Both Parkinson and Vallati, in
 particular, achieved success supported by the Department’s development infrastructure: both
 won Researcher in Residence awards from The Catapult Network. Within the University, Vallati
 was nominated for Outstanding Early Career Researcher (2015), and Parkinson won University
 research supervisor of the year 2020.

 There is much evidence for the success of our early career support: all three ECRs from the
 Department submitted in REF2014 (Vallati, Batsakis and Chrpa) now have teaching
 responsibilities, and two of them have senior positions - Vallati is Reader in the Department, and
 Chrpa is now Assistant Professor at Prague Technical University. Parkinson was an
 undergraduate and doctoral student at The University: subsequently he became a lecturer and
 has attained Readership status, and now is leader of the CCS. The University runs
 interdisciplinary sandpits which are aimed particularly to encourage early career staff, and have
 supported Bargiannis, Valatti and Tachmazidis. The School has a Research Development
 Manager (Dr David MacDougal) to guide staff in their early career on the path to grant
 application success.

 The School supports Sabbatical Leave and Leave of Absence where it would enable an
 academic to carry out a specific programme of research and development, or the completion of
 a commissioned book or research paper or the preparation of a major research grant
 application. For example, Ward developed the iDEA method during a 12-month sabbatical
 leave within Buckingham Palace, leading to TAML’s Impact Case Study.

 The Unit takes advantage of the University’s Collaborative Ventures Fund (CVF) which provides
 up to £2,500 of internal funding for academics to work on short feasibility projects for external
 companies at no cost to them. This has led to key relationships being developed resulting in
 KTP projects, sponsored PhDs, Innovate-UK funded projects, with more details in Section 4.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity

 The Unit is committed to creating and maintaining a culture of research diversity and recognises
 that a positive and supportive environment where researchers from all backgrounds can flourish
 will significantly support the Unit’s future ambitions.



                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Similarly, the University is committed to EDI and has robust policies and codes of practice to
 guide and support staff and PGRs. In 2020, the University signed up to the Race Equality
 Charter (REC) and completed the Investing in Ethnicity Maturity Matrix to inform the REC action
 plan. In 2018, the University was accredited as a Disability Confident Employer and was a
 signatory to the Mindful Employer Charter; it is also a Stonewall Champion and participated in
 the Stonewall Equality Index in 2019. The University has four staff networks (LGBTQI+, BAME,
 Women and Disability) run by members with support from the University EDI Officer. The
 University has Athena Swan Bronze accreditation and the School in which the Unit sits is also
 working towards an Athena Swan Bronze award.

 EDI is also a priority within the University’s REF2021 Code of Practice, and a detailed Equality
 and Impact Assessment (EIA) has been completed as part of the process of selecting staff
 outputs for inclusion within the REF assessment process. EDI influences our behaviour in the
 Unit, for example it is mandatory for senior staff to undertake the University’s on-line
 ‘unconscious bias’ and ‘diversity in the workplace’ modules.

 An equality impact assessment was undertaken for the Unit and was used in the final
 identification of output pool prior to submission. The most significant factor in UoA11 affecting
 SRR/IR selection was postgraduate qualification, for example more than one third of staff who
 were identified as not-SRR are still studying for a doctorate degree.

 Regarding PGR students, personal learning support plans (PLSP) are developed for all who
 require one. This is written following an interview between the PGR and the central University
 Disability Team. Support is provided for those who declare a disability and is determined by the
 content of the PLSP, whether this be specific display screen equipment or support from the
 School Guidance Team.

 PGR Student Recruitment, Development and Progression

 Student Recruitment

 At the end of the census period the Unit had 64 doctoral research students enrolled (43 FT and
 21 PT, a rise of 50% from the start of the census period), with nearly two thirds of them being
 international. Recruitment of PGRs follows a robust recruitment process with all
 projects/potential projects being advertised through a variety of channels, including the
 University’s main application platform ‘Coursefinder’. The Unit follows the University wide
 recruitment process for all of its doctoral research students, which includes a review of the
 proposals by the research group/supervisor, interviews, completion of a Pre-Enrolment Form
 and ensuring all the relevant checks are completed before the applicant is offered a place at the
 University.

 Internal funding has been provided to accelerate growth in research and enterprise and one
 scheme which is available to potential research students is the fee waiver, where University fees
 are fully or partly waived on the basis of merit. Since the beginning of the census period, 46 fee
 waivers have been awarded to PhD and Masters by Research students. Examples of external
 funding include Murtagh’s 4-year EPSRC NPIF award “Mathematical Foundations of Optical
 Nano and Micro Mass Spectroscopy” which commenced October 2018. The Unit also benefits
 from opportunities to collaborate within our sister engineering department’s EPSRC Doctoral
 Training Programme, which fully funds a number (currently 12) of PhD studentships each year.


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Details of monitoring and progression-support mechanisms:

 All doctoral research students are required to submit a Research Plan and Skills Audit after three
 months (pro rata for part time and after two months for Masters). The purpose of this is to enable
 students to develop a clear plan for their research project, to explore the skills and training which
 will be required, gain any required ethics approval, to perform an initial literature search and from
 this to identify their research question.

 Records of supervisions are kept by both students and supervisors in the University’s SkillsForge
 platform. Progression vivas are held after 9 and 21 months, for which students are required to
 submit an annual report detailing their progress, and then give a short presentation to a panel
 consisting of two academics from the subject area who are not involved in the student’s
 supervision (this allows also for frank discussion of the student’s level of satisfaction with the
 supervision provided). For progression to be approved, the examiners must be satisfied that the
 student has made sufficient progress both intellectually and in terms of timescale for completion.
 Research training needs form part of the discussion in these vivas.

 Continued support in the preparation for these milestones is provided primarily by the supervision
 team; generally comprising of a main supervisor, second supervisor and personal tutor. Additional
 provision is available within the Unit by our Academic Skills Tutor and from a central provision
 within the Academic English Centre, which provides a variety of targeted workshops and courses.
 Organised courses on areas such as academic writing, plagiarism and reviewing literature are
 complemented by tailored one to one support if required. For example, the five half-day sessions
 of the Essential Journal Writing Skills Course are mandatory for all full-time doctoral research
 students and introduces the art of producing original research articles with a focus on crafting
 introductions and reviewing literature with detailed guidance on paraphrasing, referencing and
 avoiding plagiarism. All doctoral research students receive an electronic newsletter which
 provides an overview of the upcoming courses and workshops.

 To ensure that the voice of the doctoral research student is heard and considered, the Unit runs
 a PGR Student Forum twice per annum with membership comprising of the Director of Graduate
 Education (DoGE), four student representatives (across all Units within the School of Computing
 and Engineering), one Student’s Union representative, two academics, one library representative,
 one technician and one secretary. The Forum has a Terms of Reference and is formally recorded.
 All School and University Committees have representation from a doctoral research student, again
 to ensure the voice of the PGR is heard and considered.

 In addition to the high-level academic support and development as described above, examples of
 additional resources available include training on research ethics and integrity in our on-line
 Researcher Environment, our Teaching Assistant Preparation Programme and the University's
 Careers and Employability Service. Research students are encouraged to engage with internal
 events such as our Three Minute Thesis competition and the annual PGR Conference as well as
 presenting at external conferences and academic meetings. The Unit provides financial support
 to each doctoral research student in the form of a £300 contribution towards a national conference
 and £500 towards an international conference, through our Conference Presentation Fund. For
 an example of its effectiveness, during the UK PlanSIG Workshop in 2020, out of the 11 papers
 presented, 3 had current PhD students in PARK as first authors (R.Reba, S.Mund and H.Jaazaa).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Strategy for generating income

 Utilise the Research Centre structure: the Research Strategy detailed in the first section of this
 document hinges on growth in research and impact. The structure of the Unit into a set of ASRI-
 related Centres provides the intellectual support for academics to grow within an environment
 which fosters mentorship and collaborative research. The success of the PARK group is
 evidence of this, and the other, new Centres are likewise providing the same kind of
 environment. As an example, the CCS became a standalone research centre in 2017 (formally
 the academics were part of PARK research centre). This has resulted in more focus on cyber
 security research and a total of £260k of income has been generated by Parkinson via a variety
 of different grants and sources including UKRI, government, Innovate UK, KTP and industry
 investment.

 Reinvest Research Income into Centres: in order to help grow research and research income
 within each centre, the School has a strategy of reinvesting any research surpluses back into
 that research centre. This has supported obj-a) in our strategy, with research centres
 (particularly PARK) being enabled to grow their resources by employing new research fellows
 and offering PhD bursaries.

 Provide close mentorship and bid development advice: as covered in Section 2 above, the
 School and University have a range of support mechanisms for supporting grant bidding,
 particularly those relatively inexperienced. With 13 new academic appointments in the census
 period, developing the bid-winning potential of each member of staff is of paramount importance.
 For example, Vallati’s successful bid for a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship started years before
 with mentorship and subject assistance within PARK, as well as the benefit of international
 collaborations. The identification of this particular mechanism was recommended and assisted
 by our Research Development Manager (see Section 1) with industrial connections cemented by
 our RBD team. While every external bid in the School has to be peer reviewed and signed off
 before submission, the development of Vallati’s bid in particular was monitored, reviewed and
 supported by his mentor, the Research Development Manager, and other School-wide senior
 staff, to maximise his chance of success.

 Develop and grow commercialisation opportunities: the School and Unit has been increasing
 support for achievement of societal impact (strategic objective obj-d)), and the development of
 more user-led research. This is consistent with University Strategy map KPI of 15% of research
 outputs by 2025 to be generated in collaboration with end users. Progress has been facilitated
 by the increased support within the RBD team (with two new appointments since 2014) as well
 as the development of a Research Finance Support Team. This extra support has been
 particularly important in the commercialisation of our Urban Transport Management research
 (more details in PARK’s ICS). Also, Lane has secured £50k from the ERA foundation and £30k
 from the Royal Academy of Engineering to develop both education activities and technical
 engagement with manufacturing SMEs to support them with the adoption of Industrial Digital
 Technologies.

 Submitted Unit’s Income

 UoA 11 has had a steady portfolio of research income year on year underpinned by a combined
 investment in new academics, new research centres, research support infrastructure, mentoring
 and development of academic staff. The research funding for the census period has increased

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 compared to the last REF period by a per-year factor of more than two (total income for the
 REF2014 period was £589K and total income for the current census period is £1,983K).
 We continue to maintain a strategy of developing a mixed portfolio of grant funding resulting in a
 balance between Industry, UKRI, EU and Government funding. While EU income has declined,
 commercial income has increased, and with recent funding successes, Research Council grant
 income should also rise to compensate for this (see Table below).

 There has been a significant increase in bids during this REF period from a greater number of
 academics. Our bidding portfolio has also increased from £2.5M worth of bids in academic year
 15/16 to £3.7M of bids in academic year 19/20. This aligns with the increased support both
 centrally and with the School to facilitate the bidding process, provide training and support and
 the increased academic mentoring with research centres.

  Percentage Income per Annum and Income Sources
               2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Total
  BEIS          25.9%    41.9%  63.7%     7.0%    6.9%  14.2%   12.5% 22.2%
  Research
  Councils,
  The Royal
  Society etc
  UK-based       0.0%     0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%   3.3%   19.7%  3.3%
  charities
  (open
  competitive
  process)
  UK central    10.8%     2.7%    6.7%   25.2%   61.4%  55.1%   19.7% 29.8%
  government
  bodies/local
  authorities
  UK industry,   0.0%     0.0%  11.5%    29.2%   14.7%  14.3%   40.2% 15.6%
  commerce
  and public
  corporations
  UK other       0.0%     0.0%    0.0%    9.0%    0.0%   0.0%    0.0%  1.0%
  sources

  EU              63.4%      55.4%      18.1%     29.5%      17.0%      13.2%       6.1% 27.9%
  government
  bodies
  EU-based          0.0%      0.0%       0.0%       0.0%      0.0%       0.0%       1.8%    0.3%
  charities
  (open
  competitive
  process)

 Exemplars of Success in Grant Income and Commercialisation

 As part of growing commercialisation opportunities in the Unit, five Knowledge Transfer
 Partnerships have been awarded within the census period (growing from zero) and totalling
 £800K of current and potential future research grant income. In order to continue growing the


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 number of KTPs, a strategy of maintaining a portfolio of three KTPs running at any one time was
 agreed. By the end of this REF period the Unit has successfully achieved this outcome (current
 KTPs with ValueChain, Brandon Medical and Andel Ltd).

 Alongside the KTP target, there has been a focus on working with our company partners to
 apply for Innovate UK grants and to look at commercialisation opportunities. An exemplar is
 McCluskey and Vallati’s collaboration with Transport Consultants which led to grants of
 progressive size: starting with an internal CVF of £5000, this led to a consortium project
 including British Telecom and Transport for Greater Manchester winning funding from the
 Innovate UK Competition “Solving Urban Challenges with Data” (2015 - 2016). This resulted in
 a Transport-Consultants-led Innovate UK First of a Kind collaboration of approximately £1M, of
 which PARK secured £150,000. This further led to the establishment of a joint venture company
 (SimplifAI Systems Ltd), between PARK and the Transport Consultants, of which the University
 owns 15% of shares, and the establishment of the collaboratively-run CITM detailed in Section 1
 above.

 Infrastructure and facilities

 The School has invested in a dedicated state-of-the-art space for PGR students including hot-
 desking facilities for over 50 students, lockers, meeting rooms, chill out area, kitchen facilities,
 and a dedicated admin team. A new Technical Services Manager has also been appointed
 bringing all the technical and IT technicians under one management structure resulting in more
 joined-up support for our researchers.

 Staff and research students have access to a wide range of computer facilities, humanoid and
 other robots, servers and specialist computer software. For example, the deterministic track of
 the 2014 IPC (International Planning Competition) which was organised by Vallati, McCluskey
 and Chrpa, and attracted 86 entries (i.e. planning software) from all continents of the world,
 would not have been technically possible without the use of the School’s inhouse high
 performance computing facilities. Apart from the contribution to the discipline, this infrastructure
 provided the foundation for a huge amount of empirical investigation, resulting in a substantial
 article by the organisers in Knowledge Engineering Review 2018 and an earlier AI Magazine
 article that together have attracted well over 100 google cites by December 2020.

 The University’s Innovation Centre (the “3M BIC”) is housed opposite our Department's building
 and contains an Industrial Digital Technology demonstration laboratory. Lane, for example, has
 used this facility to support his ERA Foundation funded initiative, in collaboration with National
 Physical Laboratory staff, to engage with manufacturing SMEs to foster the adoption of Industry
 4.0 technologies.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Overview of Support for Collaborations

 Collaborations in the widest sense are an essential ingredient in achieving all 5 of our research
 strategy’s objectives, where the Unit is seeking to rapidly raise its research profile nationally and
 internationally. Consequently, as well as winning direct external funding, we have at our disposal
 both Central University mechanisms and School mechanisms to help us deliver them. These
 collaborations range world-wide, are often interdisciplinary in nature, and often provide the basis
 for the academic and societal impact of the pioneering research undertaken within the Unit.


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our School’s impact strategy is strongly aligned to the Unit’s overall strategy (c.f. obj-d in
 section 1). Its aim is to foster close collaboration with industry partners to accelerate knowledge
 transfer and the adoption of new technologies to deliver impact. This includes extensive support
 for the use of funded mechanisms such as KTPs, Innovate UK Collaborative R&D programmes
 (e.g. SMART grants). Seed-funding grants such as the CVF detailed in Section 2 are often used
 to lead to these larger collaborations, being the prime collaborations with research users (e.g.
 the PARK’s involvement in Urban Transport Management started using a University
 Collaborative Funding Voucher of £5000 and led to over a million pounds of investment in this
 area from Innovate UK and Venture Capitalist funding – more details are given in PARK’s Impact
 Case Study “New AI technologies for enriching and recovering value from urban data with
 applications to traffic management”).

 For collaborative support in general, the Unit has received:

    ●   Support for collaboration from the University Centre. URF is competitively obtained
        and is predominantly used to support collaborations. URF funds have been used for
        promoting interdisciplinary groups (e.g. CAIMH led by Antoniou detailed below), and for
        promoting international collaboration (e.g. the Robotics Centre led by McCluskey
        detailed below). For example, URF strand “Research Networking Fund” supports full-time
        and part-time postgraduate researcher visits to centres of research excellence.

    ●   Support mechanisms for collaboration from the within School include use of support
        staff (described in the People section above), and the use of funding devolved from
        Quality Related income (for example research fellow Franco was funded via QR to
        support PARK’s Urban Transport Management research).

 Exemplars of Collaboration - Academic Networks led by Unit Staff

 The EU-funded project Mirel (https://www.mirelproject.eu/) under the H2020 Marie Sklodowska
 Curie Research and Innovation Staff Exchange scheme in the area of AI for law, was led by
 Antonoiu as PI. The project was important in advancing the research agenda and state of
 mining and reasoning with legal texts and is currently producing a reference book on AI and
 Law. University of Huddersfield researchers visited institutions including University of Bologna,
 University of Luxembourg, CSIRO, Stanford University and Zhejiang University, and hosted
 international researchers and research students from China, Australia and Argentina. For
 example, Vallati visited the Universidad Nacional del Sur (Argentina), leading to a jointly written
 Scimago Q1 journal publication. Funded by Mirel, he also gave invited talks on knowledge
 engineering for AI Planning at the University of Tokyo, Japan (June 2019), and at Universidad
 Nacional del Sur, Argentina (July 2017).

 The EU-funded project Semdata www.semdata-project.eu/ under the FP7 Marie Curie
 International Researcher Exchange Scheme, in the area of semantic data management, with PI
 Antoniou, was important in advancing the research agenda and state-of-the-art of open data
 curation and quality, stream data querying and reasoning with big data. University of
 Huddersfield researchers visited international institutions such as Stanford University, Wright
 State University and RMIT, and hosted international researchers and research students from
 China, Australia and Ukraine.

 The COST European Network in “Autonomic Transport Support Systems” (TUD 1102, 2011 -
 2015), chaired by McCluskey, had the participation of scientists from 24 European countries.


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Departmental staff and students participated through scientific visits and participation in
 workshops and competitions. The main outputs of the network were an edited, refereed book
 “Autonomic Transport Support Systems” published by Springer (DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-25808-
 9), two international competitions, two training schools, various focussed workshops, and 45
 short term scientific visits. As an example of the latter, in June 2015, the Network funded Vallati
 to visit the TU Delft university in The Netherlands. The visit led to a number of subsequent
 publications, including one in the AAAI-2016 conference, and eventually led to a patent
 described below filed by SimplifAI Systems Ltd.

 University Research Funding supported the Department’s Robots Research Initiative [2014-
 2017] with £86,986 supporting a sequence of high profile international collaborations,
 underpinned by purchases of humanoid robots and support staff. The project funded the visit of
 Dr Tiago Vaquero from MIT/CalTech in June 2016 to collaborate on robot research; in 2015
 Chrpa visited the Robotics labs at LSTS, University of Porto, and the Icelandic Institute of
 Intelligent Machines (IIIM), applying PARK’s expertise in Automated Planning to robotic
 applications. The visits led to joint publications, including a publication at the premiere robotics
 conference IROS, and joint Huddersfield - MIT organisation of the 2016 international competition
 ICKEPS [https://ickeps2016.wordpress.com/] at ICAPS 2016, London.

 Exemplars of Collaboration - Interdisciplinary Research led by Unit Staff

 Lane is Technical Coordinator for a Framework Research Collaboration Agreement with
 CERN. This has led to three PhD projects between CERN and CIndA, and a successful bid for
 EU ATRACT funding for €100k in total. He holds a Visiting Scientist post at CERN in the Beam
 Instrumentation Group in the Beams Department and works on novel opto-electronic sensing
 and associated signal detection and processing for the CERN accelerator complex. He is also
 the lead investigator of Huddersfield's association with the ATLAS experiment at CERN as a
 Technical Institute providing software, simulation and system design support to the trigger and
 data acquisition activity. Huddersfield is the first UK university to be accepted by ATLAS as a
 Technical Institute.

 Antoniou received support from the University Research Fund to drive interdisciplinary research
 across campus, with the aim of establishing an AI Institute. Based on this funding, he was able
 to reach out and establish a lasting working relation with South-West Yorkshire Partnership NHS
 Foundation Trust. Co-funded initiatives between the University and Trust developed world-
 leading AI solutions in the areas of suicide risk assessment and adult ADHD diagnosis, while a
 new initiative started in 2020 towards developing an AI algorithm for diagnosing autism. Potential
 benefits include more accurate prediction of suicide and cost-effective decision support solutions
 for diagnosing ADHD and autism providing significant cost savings to the NHS through higher
 productivity per specialist clinician. These cost reducing effects are also the foundation for
 funding received by Research England through Grow MedTech towards possible
 commercialisation of the ADHD solution.

 McCluskey was PI and overall manager of the EPSRC project “Machine Learning and
 Adaptation of Domain Models to Support Real Time Planning in Autonomous Systems
 (EP/J011991/1 and EP/J011800/1, 2012 - 2016), collaborating with Prof Austin Tate of the
 University of Edinburgh, and Schlumberger at Schlumbeger-Gould research Centre at
 Cambridge. This was funded as part of the first tranche of the EPSRC/Industrial initiative in
 Autonomous and Intelligent Systems (2012-2017), aiming to create a sustainable world-leading


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 robotics and autonomous systems industry in the UK. It supported a network of nine projects
 across 16 universities. Industrial partners in the network were BAE Systems, Schlumberger,
 National Nuclear Laboratory (NNL), Sellafield Ltd, Network Rail, SCISYS, DSTL and the UK
 Space Agency. Many outcomes for Huddersfield followed including McCluskey’s further work
 with the DSTL on the future of autonomous agents (http://eprints.hud.ac.uk/id/eprint/31984/).

 As well as the above, the £1.8M ESIF grant “Smart Rolling Stock Maintenance” (2019-2023)
 detailed in Section 1 is a good example of such interdisciplinary research.

 Exemplars of Collaboration - Research Users and Societal and Economic Impact
 The Unit has won 5 Knowledge Transfer Partnerships since 2014, details of the most recent 4
 follow:
 Impact via Knowledge Transfer Projects:
      - Axia Digital / Citizen Connect Ltd (PN-10103). This KTP led to the development of a
         new secure and customisable architecture for producing bespoke digital portfolio
         solutions, which are being used by clients with c.600k users worldwide. (PI: Parkinson)
      - Mainstream Measurements Ltd (PN-10565) This project culminated in the release of
         the Mainstream MODBUS communications adapter, which provides a secure
         communication interface for remote data acquisition, control, and integration. The
         contribution of the Associate (Sean Howson) to the project won the UK KTP’s ``Future
         Innovator'' award in 2019
         http://wateractive.co.uk/products/120k_rd_project_opens_up_markets_worldwide_for_wa
         ter_flow_measurement_company. (PI: Parkinson)
      - Valuechain.com (PN-11073). This three-year programme will provide the company with
         the capability to embed machine learning algorithms into its supply chain management
         software. Based on the KTP’s work, Valuechain have secured a new Innovate UK /
         Aerospace Technology Institute project in collaboration with Digital Catapult and Airbus.
         (PI:Crampton)
      - Brandon Medical (PN-10961) This joint work with our Department of Engineering
         Technology is aimed at improving product and service quality driven by the use of
         automation and data analytics in the manufacture of medical lighting and healthcare
         devices (Co-I: Hill).
      - Building on the sensing and data processing work carried out at CERN within CIndA,
         KTP has been won with Andel Ltd. This is yet to commence, but aims to develop a novel
         leak detection cable and associated signal processing to physically locate leaks across a
         wide range of scenarios including data centres and buried pipework. (PI: Lane)

 Impact Summary within Our Impact Case Studies
 PARK’s ICS (McCluskey et al) demonstrates impact with research users British Telecom, SMEs
 and Transport Authorities. CVV’s ICS (Xu et al) work in computer vision, visualisation, machine
 learning, and their software found extensive use in real-world tasks such as tracking and
 semantic segmentation. TAML’s ICS (Ward and Lu) shows that their iDea Portal and WRS
 technology has led to impact in educational settings across over 190 countries, including being
 used to teach the UK computing curriculum in schools.

 Collaborations and Societal Contributions in Health:
 Antoniou’s established collaboration with the NHS Foundation Trust (SWYPFT) referred to
 above, has led to AI solutions for adult ADHD diagnosis is being used in the clinical service of
 SWYT, and has received funding from Research England, through Grow Medtech (a Yorkshire


                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 universities collaboration funded by Research England Connecting Capability Fund), towards
 possible commercialisation. Completed research and progress reports have been published in
 relevant journals and conferences in mental health (e.g. Crisis journal) and computer science
 (e.g. Applied Artificial Intelligence). Vallati established collaboration with the Hospital Policlinico
 Gemelli (Rome) and with the Brescia Hospital in the area of process mining for healthcare. This
 interaction led to a number of publications, and to the release of an R package called PmineR
 (http://www.pminer.info/progetti/website/main.php) that can be freely used for process discovery
 and conformance checking.

 Public Engagement:
 The UoA is committed to the Concordat for Engaging the Public with Research, with the
 University Centre providing an Engagement Fund for training in public engagement. Specific
 examples include:
    - Vallati uses his research expertise to write articles in Magazines such as The
        Conversation (https://theconversation.com/will-ai-take-over-quantum-theory-suggests-
        otherwise-126567) and in Academic blogs
        (http://blogs.hud.ac.uk/academics/2020/march/will-driverless-vehicles-take-over/).
    - McCluskey delivers a talk each year to local Schools based on his research in
        Autonomy entitled “From Self Driving Cars to Thinking Robots – the advent of
        Autonomous Intelligent Systems”.

 Wider public engagement by researchers has primarily been through formally organised events
 such as University European Researcher Nights in 2016 and 2017 (where over 3,000 members
 of the public attended the University for open events showcasing our research) delivering
 presentations and, more importantly, hands on activities. Researchers have also developed
 public lectures showcasing research in off-campus locations. These “Café Scientifique” events
 have proven popular and have been running since 2015 in conjunction with researchers from the
 School of Applied School Sciences.

 Contribution to the Research Base

 Keynote Talks
 Many staff in the unit have given external invited talks, below we list only some examples of
 Keynotes talks:

 Hill was Keynote Speaker for the 7th International Conference on Smart City and Informatization
 2017: “Realising Smart Manufacturing with the Industrial Internet of Things”;
 Xu was Keynote Speaker for the 2017 International Conference on Sensing and Imaging,
 Chengdu, China, and Keynote Speaker for the 2016 International Workshop on Signal Processing
 with Applications in Scene Investigation.
 Lu has given several keynotes talks including “Big data vs. Environment - a Challenge in Both
 Areas”, International Conference on Change, Innovation, Informatics and Disruptive Technology,
 2016, London, UK; the Fourth International Conference on Advanced Communications and
 Computation, France, 2014.
 Antoniou was Keynote Speaker at the 4th International Conference on Web Intelligence, Mining
 and Semantics, Thessaloniki, Greece; ONTOBRAS 2015: Brazilian Seminar on Ontologies, Sao
 Paulo, Brazil; IISA 2019: Information, Intelligence, Systems and Applications, Patras, Greece;
 PRICAI 2019: Pacifi Rim International Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Suva, Fiji; and WISE
 2020: 21st International Conference on Web Information Systems Engineering, Amsterdam,
 Netherlands.

                                                                                                 Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Editorials
 Staff are or have been editors of prestigious journals in the area, with some examples below:

       Antoniou is on the Editorial Board of the Artificial Intelligence Journal, Knowledge and
        Information Systems and International Journal of Artificial Intelligence Tools; and he is
        Guest Editor of Artificial Intelligence in Medicine (2019-2020) and was Guest editor for
        International Journal of Artificial Intelligence Tools, Special Issue on Advances of AI
        (selection of papers from MIWAI 2015, 2014, 2013.
       Faber was on the Editorial Board for Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research - Editorial
        Board for Advances in Artificial Intelligence.
       Lane was Guest Editor, Special Issue of MDPI Sensors Journal (Q2 in SJR) on Industrial
        Internet of Things.
       Allen is an editor of a new journal, Journal of Emerging Trends in Computer Science and
        Engineering.
       Vallati is member of the Editorial Board of the Artificial Intelligence in Medicine Journal,
        and of the Journal of Creative Music Systems. Also, he was guest editor of the Fundamenta
        Informaticae special issue on selected papers from RCRA-18.
       Lu is Guest Editor for two special issues in the International Journal of Information
        Retrieval Research, Special Issue on Ontology and Innovation: Part 1 and Part 2. She is
        the founder and Editor in Chief for International Journal of Information Retrieval Research,
        IGI Global Ltd. USA since 2012.
       Chen T. is Lead Guest Editor for Artificial Intelligence in Medicine’s forthcoming Special
        Issue on Medical Analytics for Healthcare Intelligence.

 Conference Organisation and Management
 Staff have acted as organisers of many conferences and workshops. Some examples are given
 below:
      Antoniou was PC Co-Chair of IEEE International Conference on Knowledge Graphs
         2020, General Co-Chair of JIST 2016 and Conference Co-Chair of MIWAI 2015.
      Faber was General Chair of the 9th International Conference on Web Reasoning and
         Rule Systems (RR 2015) and Chair of the First Workshop on Trends and Applications of
         Answer Set Programming (TAASP 2016).
      Hill was General Co-Chair of The 8th IEEE International Conference on Smart City and
         Informatization, Guangzhou, China, 2020; and General Co-Chair 14th IEEE International
         Conference on Ubiquitous Computing and Communications (IUCC 2015), Liverpool, UK,
         October 26–28, 2015.
      Xu was Program Chair for 22nd IEEE International Conference on Automation and
         Computing (IEEE ICAC’16), and General Chair for the IEEE ICAC’17 Conference.
      Lu was Scientific Committee Chair of International Conference on Communication,
         Management and Information Technology at ICCMIT'17, Warsaw, Poland and at
         ICCMIT'18, Madrid, Spain.
      Vallati was Co-Chair of the International Symposium on Combinatorial Search (SoCS),
         May, 2020. He was conference co-chair of the 13th International Symposium on
         Combinatorial Search (SoCS 2020).
      Parkinson was Co-Chair of International Conference on Automated Planning and
         Scheduling (ICAPS) Application track at ICAPS-19 in Berkeley (CA), USA, and in Nancy,
         France, 2020. He has been co-chair of SPARK, the Scheduling and Planning
         Applications woRKshop workshop at ICAPS-17, ICAPS-18, ICAPS-19 and ICAPS-20. He

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        was Chair of PLANSIG workshop, University of Huddersfield (2016), and is Area Editor of
        EAI Endorsed Transactions on Security and Safety.
       Qin was Program Co-Chair, The 9th International Symposium on Internet of Ubiquitous
        and Pervasive Things (IUPT 2019), Leuven, Belgium, April 29 - May 2, 2019; Program
        Co-Chair, The 8th International Symposium on Internet of Ubiquitous and Pervasive
        Things (IUPT 2018). Porto, Portugal, May 8-11, 2018; and Program Co-Chair, The 7th
        International Symposium on Internet of Ubiquitous and Pervasive Things (IUPT 2017),
        Madeira, Portugal, May 16-19, 2017.

 Examples of Prizes won by Saff
     Xu won Best Paper Award, An Innovative Crowd Segmentation Approach based on
       Social Force Modelling, Yu Hao, Zhijie Xu, Ying Liu, Jing Wang, Jiulun Fan, presented at
       ADVCOMP 2018, The Twelfth International Conference on Advanced Engineering
       Computing and Applications in Sciences, Athens, Greece, November 18-22, 2018. ISBN:
       978-1-61208-677-4
       https://www.iaria.org/conferences2018/awardsADVCOMP18/advcomp2018_a2.pdf
     Faber led the team (himself, and 2 PhD students) that took first place in the 2014 FLoC
       Olympics Answer Set Programming (ASP) Modelling Competition at the FLoC Olympic
       Games, instituted by the Federated Logic Conference, and held in the Vienna Summer of
       Logic, July 2014. Results page:
       https://www.mat.unical.it/aspcomp2014/FrontPage#liveevents
     Hill won Best Paper Award, A Multi-layer Security Model for 5G-enabled Industrial
       Internet of Things, Hussain Al-Aqrabi, Anju Johnson, Richard Hill, Phil Lane, Lu Liu,
       presented iSCI2019, The 7th IEEE International Conference on Smart City and
       Informatization, Guangzhou, China, November 12-15, 2019. ISBN: 978-981-15-1301-5.
       He received ‘IEEE Outstanding Leadership Award’ at the 14th IEEE International
       Conference on Ubiquitous Computing and Communications (IUCC 2015), Liverpool, UK,
       October 26–28, 2015.
     Vallati won first prize in the temporal track of the 2018 edition of the International
       Planning Competition, with a system called TemPoRaL (https://ipc2018-
       temporal.bitbucket.io/). He won first prize in the PR track of the 2nd International
       Competition on Computational Models of Argumentation (ICCMA), in 2017
       (http://argumentationcompetition.org/2017/), with a system called ArgSemSAT.

 Competition Organisation
    Vallati was co-organiser of the 2019 Sparkle Planning Challenge
      (http://ada.liacs.nl/events/sparkle-planning-19/) - an international competition of the AI
      Planning community aimed at assessing the complementarity of existing planning
      techniques.
    McCluskey, Chrpa and Vallati were co-organisers of the 2016 international competition
      ICKEPS (https://ickeps2016.wordpress.com/organisers/) with Dr T Vaquero of MIT.
    Vallati, McCluskey and Chrpa formed the organising team of the deterministic track of
      the 2014 IPC (International Planning Competition) (https://helios.hud.ac.uk/scommv/IPC-
      14/).




                                                                                         Page 18
