Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Plymouth

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 27

 Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Context and structure
 Research in English and Creative Writing (ECW) at Plymouth is developed within a unit of 13.5
 FTE within the School of Humanities and Performing Arts, which is part of the Faculty of Arts,
 Humanities and Business. Throughout the census period, the unit’s research has been conducted
 with an interdisciplinary environment, supported by the Arts Institute, which provided training in
 research development, an ECR forum, and an infrastructure for interdisciplinary research
 initiatives, including environmental cultures, which is led by colleagues from within the unit. English
 and Creative Writing at Plymouth has an established tradition of outstanding research, with over
 two-thirds of our research ranked as either world-leading or internationally excellent (4* and 3*) in
 REF 2014. Over the course of the REF cycle, the unit has continued developing existing research
 specialisms and excellence in a number of areas: literatures of the early modern period in England
 and North America; the novel, poetry and satire in the long 18th century; print culture from the early
 modern period to the twentieth century; literatures of the environment; transatlantic literatures;
 utopian and dystopian fictions; ecocriticism; contemporary poetry; literatures of war and female
 suffrage; as well as excellence in practice-as-research (novel writing, prose fiction, poetry and
 creative non-fiction).

 Two significant changes for the unit in this REF cycle underpin its achievements: the alignment
 of sustainable and inter-connected research themes within the unit, and the expansion of
 impact partnerships across a diverse range of sectors, from museums and arts practice to
 environmental organisations and charities. Through the deployment of literary critical methods
 and creative practice, our research and our impact strengthen the University’s response to
 matters of intellectual, civic and environmental significance. During this REF period, investment
 in curiosity-driven research is balanced with investment in establishing inter-connected research
 themes. While sustaining our specialisms in Transatlantic Literary Studies (a continuation of
 an AHRC network, REF 2014) and further investing in our strengths in Poetry (literary analysis
 and creative practice), we prioritised a new research theme, Literature and the Environment,
 and are at a point of realigning existing strengths in 18th-century literary studies as the basis for
 an emerging theme, Print Culture and Identity Formation. This infrastructure helps us build
 capacity and resilience; all staff are linked to one or more research theme.

 Achievement summary since 2014
 In this REF cycle, we have published 61 outputs in total: 12 monographs and books, 9 edited
 collections, 40 articles and chapters, an increase of 26 outputs since our submission in 2014. In
 addition, staff organised 14 international conferences; are, or were, members of editorial boards
 for 9 book series (Latimer, Bloomfield, Caleshu, Finkelstein). Staff have developed formal
 partnerships with national and international HEIs and public bodies, by securing and/or
 completing the delivery or four AHRC grants in this period (AKSmith x2, Sergeant, Moore).
 Other HEI partnerships – the Mayflower 400 Universities group (Gray) and ContemPo
 (Bloomfield) – are indicative of the breadth and reach of our external collaborations. UoP’s
 strategic Marine Institute and Sustainable Earth Institute, provide further infrastructure to enable
 the development of interdisciplinary research partnerships between literary studies and
 environmental sciences: two researchers from the unit sit on respective institutional steering
 committees (Bloomfield and Sergeant). In this cycle, our PGR recruitment and completions
 have increased twofold (see section 2), reflecting the strength and sustainability of this
 expansion.

 Research strategy and delivery
 Our specific aims for 2014-2021, were to invest in pre-existing research themes (poetry and
 Transatlantic literary study), contribute to the creation and strategic oversight of the Arts
 Institute, and significantly grow the PGR community in sustainable ways. Building on these initial
 aims, the unit has sustained the vitality of its research culture by: 1) consolidating an emergent

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research specialism, Literature and the Environment, 2) developing a more inclusive research
 theme around Print Culture and Identity Formation, predicated on collective strengths in 18th-
 century literature, 3) prioritising leadership and career progression, especially ECRs, and 4)
 enabling productive partnerships and collaborations with non-cognate disciplines, e.g. marine
 science, and non-HEI partners.

 Four inter-connected research themes
 Investment in research themes has enabled, sustained and intensified the vitality of the unit.
 Researchers in the unit work across these themes, allowing for cross-pollination of methods and
 research activity. Collectively the themes demonstrate our strategy of enabling sustainable
 outcomes in impact, ECR development, and leadership, building the unit’s capacity and
 resilience for the future.

     1. Transatlantic literary studies (Gray, Sood).
 The strategy for this research theme has been to build on the successful completion of the unit’s
 AHRC network grant in Transatlantic Studies in the last REF cycle and to shape and influence
 public debate as it relates to the decolonisation of narratives of remembering in the colonial
 Atlantic world (1600-1900). Gray assumed leadership of this research theme in 2013 and with
 the strategic appointment of Sood (ECR, former Fulbright scholar at Georgetown University, and
 recipient of the Kluge Fellowship at the Library of Congress) and an honorary research fellow
 (Kristin Cook, Secretary of the Transatlantic Studies Association (TSA)), we continue to publish
 high-quality work in this field on various aspects of print culture, the 18th-century transatlantic
 novel and textual constructions of colonial, colonised and enslaved identities in the Atlantic
 world. The theme has prioritised collaborative partnerships with international subject
 associations (TSA, Society for Early Americanists (SEA)), as well as the targeted development
 of knowledge-exchange partnerships, locally, nationally and internationally. This has provided
 expansive networks for our research to drive these intellectual debates. Gray’s scholarship
 shaped the delivery of an internationally-significant exhibition, Mayflower400: Legend and
 Legacy (2020) and the strategic priorities of the national Mayflower400 programme of
 commemorative events (2019-20). Sood’s research contributed to a theatrical production, Send
 Back The Money!, shedding light on the impact of the fugitive slave's visit to Britain (Edinburgh
 2019).

     2. Literature and the Environment (Bloomfield, Darlington, Gray, Sergeant, B. Smith).
 With the strategic appointment of Bloomfield and B. Smith, and with broadly equal strengths in
 creative and critical discourse, this research theme exemplifies our strategy to enable a multi-
 disciplinary response to real-world challenges of ecological crisis and the Anthropocene. With
 solid foundations in eco-criticism (Bloomfield), questions of futurity and systemic change
 (Sergeant), New Nature Writing (Darlington), colonial nature writing (Gray), and environmental
 crisis fiction (B. Smith), research from this theme now drives the agenda of a University-wide
 research cluster, ‘Environmental Cultures,’ supported by the Arts Institute, and includes
 colleagues from geography, marine science, environmental science and photography. The
 strategy for this research theme has been to build capacity through shared interdisciplinary
 research seminars, public talks and programmes, partnerships with non-HEI parties, including
 sustainability charities, wildlife charities and independent artists. Evidence of success in defining
 and supporting this theme includes successfully hosting the ASLE-UK conference in 2019
 (Bloomfield), hosting an international and interdisciplinary conference on ‘Forming the Future’
 (Sergeant), a successful application for an AHRC ECR Leadership Fellowship, national media
 coverage on BBC Radio 4 in response to the publication of Owl Sense and Doggerland (nature
 writing and fiction by Darlington and B. Smith, respectively), and the progress of current and
 future impact case studies.

    3. Poetry (Bloomfield, Caleshu, Sergeant, B. Smith, Sood).
 The range of research in this theme demonstrates the cross-pollination of ideas between our
 thematic groupings, enabling the unit to maximise its overall research strengths. From debates
 about reception and identity in the poetry of Burns, Polwhele and Ossian (Sood and Moore) to
 pioneering work on ‘archaeological poetry’, spanning US, US-Korean, British and diasporic

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 African Caribbean writers (Bloomfield), this theme drives several significant agendas in the
 field. New collections of poetry draw on experimental and lyric traditions to explore topics of
 friendship and fraternity (Caleshu, x 2), community and crisis (Sergeant), and climate change
 (B. Smith). Capitalising on this strength, Caleshu founded and edits Periplum Press, which
 publishes new poetry by internationally-recognised poets in English: Heather Phillipson, Eiléan
 Ní Chuilleanáin, Mark Ford, and Peter Gizzi. These strengths are reflected in Caleshu’s
 successful AHRC grant, "Poets Respond to Covid-19: Collaborative UK and International Poetry
 Project" (May 2020), https://poetryandcovid.com/, with UK and international partners:
 International UNESCO Cities of Literature include Moscow, Melbourne, Heidelberg, Ulyanovsk.
 Bloomfield is a joint director for Contempo, the Centre for Contemporary Poetry, a
 collaborative, cross-institutional research centre (2006—present), located across five HEIs –
 Plymouth, Aberystwyth, Bangor, Brighton, Surrey. Publications associated with this theme
 include three monographs (Sood, Moore and Bloomfield), four books of poetry (Caleshu,
 Sergeant and B. Smith) and two edited collections (Moore and Caleshu), as well as book
 chapters, articles, and individual long poems.

     4. Print Culture and Identity Formation (Bautz, Finkelstein, Hinds, Latimer, Moore, AK
 Smith, Wild).
 Consolidating the unit’s previous strengths, recognised in REF 2014, in print culture and in the
 long-eighteenth-century prose, poetry, satire, print culture, and the periodical press, the strategy
 to shift away from chronological markers has enabled a more resilient dynamic grouping to
 emerge. Substantively, research in the theme engages with 17th-century debates about print
 culture and the poet laureate (Hinds), 18th-century debates about education (Latimer), regional
 voices (Moore), satire and the periodical press (Wild), nineteenth-century libraries and reader
 reception (Bautz), transnational approaches to print culture in the nineteenth century
 (Finkelstein) and, in twentieth-century representations of war and suffrage (AK Smith). This
 body of work makes a significant contribution to various fields of research, comprising three
 monographs, seven edited collections/anthologies, and thirty-one chapters and articles. Three
 successful AHRC grants have been secured and/or delivered as part of this contribution: one
 AHRC Network grant (AK Smith), one AHRC follow-on funding grant (AK Smith), and the
 completion of one AHRC CDA (with Plymouth City Art Gallery and Museum, Moore, Latimer
 and Bautz). A strategic aim for the unit will be to maximise the potential of this significant body
 of work through more explicit collaborative working practices within the team.

 Impact: Strategy, context and achievement
 Building on feedback from REF 2014, where the panel noted our efforts to develop pathways to
 impact, our strategy has been to 1) develop place-based partnerships to enable co-creative and
 participatory impact methodologies, 2) intervene in debates that respond to matters of global
 significance, 3) prioritise knowledge-based partnerships with a wide range of sectors (e.g., civic,
 charitable, environmental and heritage). As a result of significant institutional investment, the
 support of the University’s Impact Case Study officer, Impact Research Assistants, heritage and
 impact consultants, and knowledge exchange practitioners (see section 3) the unit has
 developed and deployed pathways to impact, impact delivery and evaluation methods in
 effective and sustainable ways. With this investment and training, especially at annual research
 away days, all members of the unit are supported to engage with external partners to ensure
 dissemination and impact of research findings beyond the academy (see section 4, ‘Contribution
 to other sectors’).

 Across the unit, this strategy succeeded in enabling pathways to impact across a wide range
 and number of non-HEI partners. Concentrated strengths in environmental literary studies, has
 enabled a significant number of place-based partnerships: REGEN (not-for-profit centre of
 energy expertise), South Devon Energy Communities, Plymouth Marine Lab, the Woodlands
 Trust, Paignton Zoo, the Barn Owl Trust, and the British Trust for Ornithology. Researchers in
 the unit have provided intellectual framing for visual arts projects, theatrical productions, music
 projects, storytelling projects, national exhibitions, centenary events (WWI and Women’s
 Suffrage), colonial anniversaries (Mayflower 1620-2020). Key recipients include Houses of


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Parliament (AKSmith), and The Box (Plymouth’s newly restored Archive, Art Gallery and
 Museum) (Moore, Bautz, Latimer, Gray).

 The ICSs both respond to real-world challenges, one environmental and one cultural, and are
 predicated on knowledge-exchange partnerships and co-creative design:

 1. Nature Connections (Darlington) responds to environmental challenges, transforming the
 language, discourse of environmental protection and preservation, and enabling pro-
 environmental behaviours and creative practices, with partners in the environmental, charitable
 and social inclusion sector.

 2. Mayflower 400 (Gray) responds to international debates about colonial heritage. Part of an
 international collaboration with civic projects in Leiden and Massachusetts, as well as
 Indigenous leaders (the Wampanoag Advisory Council) this ICS evidences the significance of
 anniversary events that newly accommodate the experiences, past and present, of Indigenous
 communities in North America.

 Future research and impact strategy:
 The research strategy for 2021 onwards will be to establish further resilience and capacity by
    1. Embedding the Print Culture and Identify Formation research theme more explicitly within
        the unit through further collaborative practice;
    2. Further developing research leadership potential through co-ordination of research
        themes and gradual increased leadership responsibility for individuals in these areas;
    3. Continuing and extending interdisciplinary work, especially with science-based subjects
        and environmental groups, through the Literature and the Environment theme and in light
        of Plymouth Sound new designation as the UK’s first National Marine Park (2019);
    4. Extending pathways to impact and case studies that are embedded in the two research
        themes: A) literatures of environment and their partnerships with science-related
        subjects, as they respond to questions of environmental futures (specifically, Bloomfield,
        Sergeant and B. Smith), and B) the Transatlantic literary studies theme (Sood and
        Gray) in their continued work to decolonise literary heritage with academic and non-
        academic partners.
    5. Diversifying our approach to external grant capture, with a particular emphasis on
        collaborative and multi-disciplinary projects and partnerships.

 2. People
 Staff context:
 The unit staffing strategy has focused on the recruitment of junior scholars with outstanding
 potential, paired with a sustained and integrated set of mechanisms to ensure the progression of
 staff at every stage of their career. 94% of the English and Creative Writing team are research
 active, which speaks to the effectiveness of this strategy and of a unit well placed to sustain
 continued research excellence and the long-term resilience of the subject. Since REF 2014, we
 have made four strategic research appointments - three lecturers and one professor, each of
 which strengthens our international research profile and supports existing and emergent
 research themes (Sood, B. Smith, Bloomfield and Finkelstein). The staffing strategy of the
 unit in this REF cycle has focused on ways to embed and commit to specific research leadership
 programmes and career progression of new staff, especially ECRs.

 Staff strategy and development
 Research Management: Unit, School, Faculty
 The organisation of research activities takes place under the umbrella of the School’s Research
 and Graduate Affairs Committee, whose direct control of research finances allows for the flexible
 and efficient deployment of resources to implement the unit’s research strategy. The School
 Research Committee and its sub-committee (R1 committee), allocates and monitors internal
 research funds for sabbaticals, conference attendance and research trips. Bids to R1 are made
 on a competitive basis, broadly following AHRC guidelines and values.


                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The unit’s research co-ordinator takes overall managerial responsibility for research and is a
 member of the Research Committee and the R1 sub-committee. Each of these committees is
 chaired by the Associate Head of School (AHoS) for Research. Both the AHoS and the unit
 research co-ordinator sit on the Faculty Research Committee. Research committees at the level
 of Faculty and School produce plans that are reviewed annually. This structure ensures
 alignment of research strategy across the Faculty. Research-related Athena Swan actions, for
 staff and PGR, are delivered by the School’s Research Committee, with EDI a standing item on
 the agenda.

 At unit level, research activities are a standing item for monthly ECW team meetings, which, in
 addition to away-days, facilitate a collective awareness and ownership of the research strategy.
 The development of 3–5-year research plans, which include plans to develop funding bids, is a
 compulsory requirement of each researcher and are reviewed annually with the coordinator.
 University procedures require that individual grant bids are peer-reviewed, risk assessed and
 signed off by a member of the costing team and Head of School. The Faculty Research Ethics
 and Integrity Committee (FREIC) provides support and final clearance for research that raises
 ethical considerations; Gray is currently one of two FREIC committee members from the School
 (HPA).

 Complementing this research management structure, throughout the census period, the Arts
 Institute offered research training workshops and events for all researchers in the Faculty.
 Research co-ordinators from all units from within the Faculty sat on the AI steering committee.
 The AI provided an infrastructure to support interdisciplinary research, as it brings together more
 than 100 academics from across all research units represented in the Faculty (13, 27, 28, 32,
 33). In recent years, it has provided financial and administrative support to formal research
 clusters, including ‘Environmental Cultures’ (led by ECW researchers). Following the expansion
 of the Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Business (which now includes a law school, business
 school and education institute) in the summer of 2020, these research structures were devolved
 to the Faculty are overseen by the Associate Dean for Research.

 These supportive management mechanisms and infrastructure help deliver and oversee the
 unit’s research strategy as it relates to ECR recruitment and development, leadership, career
 progression and interdisciplinary working practices and methods.


 Leadership
 The consistent strength of the unit’s staff development strategies is reflected by the number of
 successful promotions in this REF cycle of 7 members of the unit: 2 to Professor (F) and 5 to
 Associate Professor (F=5; M=1). It is also evidenced by the substantial research leadership roles
 its members have been tasked with at School, Faculty and University level. One colleague is
 Associate Head of School for Research (Caleshu), responsible for driving the
 school’s research strategy in line with faculty and university priorities; another (Finkelstein) is
 the current Executive Dean of the Faculty, responsible for strategic leadership of all aspects of
 academic endeavour including research across over a third of the university’s work. Moore,
 Deputy Vice-Chancellor International and Planning (2020-present), acted as Pro-Vice-
 Chancellor for Research (2015-17), leading a refresh of institutional R&I strategy, and as
 Executive Dean of the Faculty (2012-2020), in addition to strategic leadership responsibilities,
 wrote the approved business case for founding the Arts Institute. The Unit co-ordinator (Gray)
 was one of four-unit coordinators from the University to sit on the University’s Code of Practice
 (REF 2021) working group. Latimer was commissioned by the Director of the AI and DVCR to
 co-write a university-wide research leadership programme. Three researchers from the unit were
 identified as future leaders and received a full, year-long training package, which ran for the first
 time in the summer of 2018. Latimer and three other members of the unit who participated in the
 programme (Bloomfield, Sergeant and Sood) (F=2; M=2) are now recognised as Research
 Leadership champions for the Faculty.



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ECRs and new lecturers
 The fact that all ECRs and new lecturers recruited in this REF period delivered monograph or
 book-length projects post-appointment, with one awarded an AHRC ECR Leadership
 Fellowship, demonstrates the enabling and productive research environment provided by the
 unit. During the probationary period, additional infrastructure supports ECRs and new staff,
 including regular progress reviews, professional development meetings with the head of subject
 and head of school, as well as opportunities to take part in senior research leadership initiatives.
 A representative from English was one of two ECRs to serve on the school research committee
 for two years and was one of eight academics selected for a university-wide Academic
 Reference Group tasked with improving working methods for administering grant money
 (Sergeant). Other ECRs / new lecturers from the unit sat on the Arts Institute (AI) operational
 committee (Sood) and the school’s Knowledge Exchange steering group (B. Smith). The AI
 sponsors an ECR network, bringing together researchers from across the faculty, to create a
 forum for ECR issues, stimulating cross-faculty collaborations, and targeting their developmental
 needs, such as grant writing and publication.

 Each ECR has a nominated research mentor from within the Unit, offering support and guidance
 formally, through biannual review meetings. As a result of this strategic investment, one member
 of staff secured an AHRC Early Career Leadership award (2017-19) has developed pathways to
 impact for a future case study and has been promoted to Associate Professor (Sergeant).
 Another new member of staff (B. Smith) has developed a significant research profile, with the
 publication of his first novel. With the support of his research mentor and the University’s
 knowledge exchange advisors, B. Smith is currently developing collaborative grants with
 another HEI Partner (Exeter), as well as supporting pathways to impact with external partners in
 the environmental, marine and charitable sector (the Woodlands trust, the National Trust,
 Plymouth Marine Laboratory). Sood, published his first monograph while in post at UoP. As part
 of the Transatlantic literary studies research theme, Sood works closely with Gray on research
 and impact projects, intending to assume ownership of this research focus within the unit,
 following his application to the AHRC’s Research, Development, and Engagement Fellowship
 (April 2021).

 PGR students: strategy and development
 Since REF2014, the unit has delivered a significant increase in PGR recruitment, with 20
 students enrolled (July 2020) on the PT/FT PhD programme, and increased completion rates by
 more than 100% (from 4 to 9). These increases provide a platform on which to develop our PGR
 strategy into the next REF cycle. Increases in this REF cycle have been the result of effective
 recruitment from our two MA programmes (Literary Study and Creative Writing), the introduction
 of a Doctoral Teaching Assistantship, and increased international recruitment. Biannual
 postgraduate open evenings have been particularly successful in attracting non-traditional PGR
 students, especially mature students. The unit’s PGR cohort benefit from a dynamic,
 multidisciplinary environment provided by the School of Humanities and Performing Arts, that is
 home to more than fifty PGR students and a Faculty of over 180 MPhil/PhD candidates situated
 within the Doctoral Training Centre (DTC) in the Arts and Humanities. Integration between these
 structures facilitates multi-disciplinary teams: ECW staff co-supervise PGR projects with
 colleagues in Fine Art and History, and have examined PhD thesis from students in History, Fine
 Art and Trans-technology.

 Generic skills and career development training in Arts and Humanities Research is managed
 and provided by the Faculty, which offers over thirty hours of workshops and training (e.g.,
 research methods, IT and library skills) each year. These activities complement the research
 skills training sessions offered by the University’s Doctoral College Researcher Development
 Programme, which is mapped against Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework and offers
 approximately 160 sessions per year. As our PGR community has expanded we have developed
 methods of peer-peer support within the unit, with workshops on research-in-progress led by
 students, for students.



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Wherever appropriate, we facilitate teaching opportunities for PGR researchers, all of whom are
 encouraged to undertake training leading to Associate Membership of the HEA. School-level
 investment in Doctoral Training Scholarships, which offers a fee-waiver, a small stipend, and
 teaching opportunities, has attracted high-calibre students (Poetry/environment, Kemp 2017;
 Environment, Corlett 2017; Print Culture, Glew 2018). The School offers competitive funding
 opportunities for PGRs to attend conferences (with or without presenting papers), training events
 and to undertake primary and/or collaborative research. The vibrancy of the PGR community
 includes various individual successes: AlShammari, (2016) has since become Head of English
 at the University of Bagdad, Vowler a prize-winning author, Kemp sat on the UoP ASLE UK
 Biennial conference steering committee (2019), two PGR students received funds to travel to the
 US for research and conference attendance (Chamberlain and Kearns, 2019), two PGRs
 participated as paid interns in partnerships with the National Trust (Boone and Chamberlain,
 2019/20).

 EDI
 The unit is broadly equal, in terms of gender, 48.1% (f) and 51.9% (m), with women and men
 represented across the career spectrum: five Professors (2f/3m), six Associate Professors
 (3f/2m) and four Lecturers (2f/2m; 2ECR=m, 1f=0.5). The unit’s research leadership has
 undergone significant change since REF2014. In this REF cycle, we can acknowledge the
 promotion of two female professors (AK Smith and Bautz) and the promotion of three women
 and one man to Associate Professor. Women occupy research leadership positions in the unit:
 research co-ordinator (Gray), research cluster leader (Bloomfield). The changes are, in part, a
 result of peer-peer support, as well as a more streamlined and integrated research infrastructure
 and institutional investment, through Faculty and School, to the unit. Within the unit, staff have
 access to a mentor: AK Smith (f), Gray (f), Moore (m).

 The School works closely with HR to provide support and guidance governed by policies such as
 the University of Plymouth’s Equal Opportunities Policy on recruitment and promotion, and the
 Flexible Working Policy, which also incorporates a statutory responsibility to consider requests
 for flexible working so that staff can care for young children or dependent adults. Throughout this
 REF cycle, three members of staff (f=1, m=2) have taken maternity and shared parental leave.
 The University provides crèche facilities on campus and staff with school-age children can
 request that they are not timetabled to teach beyond 5 pm. We monitor data for gender and
 diversity balance, ensuring that our guest speaker and visiting lecturer programme is inclusive.

 The School’s Athena Swan Bronze Award (May 2020), ensures that researchers and research
 leaders are actively involved in the delivery of the action plan. Responsibility for its delivery, as it
 relates to research, sits with the AHoS for Research who will work with unit coordinators and
 heads of subject to fulfil the requirements of the Award. Specific actions from the School’s
 Athena Swan action plan relate to ensuring gender equality and representation through the
 career pipeline, especially at Professorial level, parity of representation in research-related
 committees and management roles, parity in workloads and administrative responsibilities.

 Issues of diversity and inclusion are a core part of our research, as well as everyday research
 management and practice. 7.4% of staff identify as BME, 92.6 as white (FTE). As part of our
 strategy to ensure greater diversity, all staff undertake the University’s ‘Unconscious Bias’
 training, since 2017 we have contributed to and promote the University’s Black History Month
 programme of events with a dedicated research seminar, and we commit to ensuring diversity of
 speakers through our visiting speaker programmes throughout the year.

 Implementation of EDI principles is supported by an EDI Faculty lead (Gray), who also happens
 to be the unit’s research co-ordinator, and implemented by the school-level Athena Swan and
 EDI committee. While there are positive and successful outcomes of gender parity in this REF
 cycle, in terms of career progression and research leadership roles, our future research strategy
 will focus on maintaining this momentum by supporting the career progression of our
 researchers by making use of unit-level and University-wide mentoring schemes and leadership
 training opportunities.

                                                                                                   Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Income, investment and infrastructure:
 Research income and spend for the unit has increased since REF 2014 by 26% (225,000 in
 REF 2014, to 305,244 in REF2021), derived from several successful external grant applications
 in our different research priorities. This income has supported key areas of research excellence,
 delivering high quality research publications, international conferences, as well as PGR
 opportunities and ECR leadership.

  Funder         Project           Researcher     Research           Date         Spend / Value
                                   (s)            theme
  AHRC CDA       Reading           Moore /        Print Culture      (2013-17)    £60,918
                 Plymouth's        Bautz /        and Identity
                 Cottonian         Latimer        formation
                 Collection and                   (PCIF)
                 Archive
  AHRC           Alternate         AKSmith        PCIF               2013-15      £24,601
  Network (PI)   Spaces of War
  AHRC           What              AKSmith        PCIF               2017-18      £13,886 (of £75,
  Follow-On      Difference did                                                   529)
  (CI)           the War Make?
                 World War One
                 and Votes for
                 Women
  AHRC Early     Imagining         Sergeant       Environmental      2018-20      £ 175,948
  Career         Alternatives:                    Literary studies
  Leadership     Utopia,                          (ELS)
                 Community
                 and the Novel,
                 1880-2015
  BAAS / US      TSA and SEA       Gray           Transatlantic      2016 and     £1500 and
  Embassy        conference                       literary studies   2020         £4500
                 support                          TLS
  Charlton       Native            Gray           TLS                2019         $3000
  Foundation     American
                 Wampum Belt
                 exhibition
  US             Send Back the     Sood           TLS                2018         £2000 / £500
  Embassy /      Money!
  Wilberforce
  Institute
  AHRC           Poets Respond     Caleshu        Poetry             2020         £111,000
  Covid          to Covid-19                                                      (spend June
                                                                                  2020-May 2021)

 Allocation of QR funds: supporting sabbaticals, research activity and impact
 In addition to external research funds, research income to the unit through the distribution of QR
 funds (£70,000 annually, across all three units in the School) offers sustained investment in the
 unit’s research activities. This investment is managed and monitored by the School’s R1
 committee and the School’s Research Committee.

 Over this REF cycle, QR investment in research sabbaticals and research activities totalled
 £95,751: £73,556 of this investment secured two to three sabbaticals (6-months of teaching
 remission) annually; £22,195 was awarded internally, through the R1 committee, on a
 competitive basis, to staff who individually applied for funds to support international and UK
 conference attendance, archival research, conference organisation, researcher network
 development and external collaborations.


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Between 2014 and 2020, individual researchers in the unit were afforded one to two sabbaticals,
 achieving a variety of outcomes: preparation or completion of monographs, articles, books of
 fiction, poetry and creative non-fiction, submission of research grant applications, and securing
 impact and knowledge exchange partnerships. Research mentors and the research co-ordinator
 support members of the unit to develop research plans and achievable outcomes. Applications
 are competitive, and follow AHRC models of quality, value and reporting, to develop a robust
 bidding culture across the unit. These applications are managed and monitored by the R1
 Committee and the School’s Research Committee. This allocation of research budget is in
 addition to a standard research workload allocation of 300 hours/annum (broadly equivalent to .2
 FTE or 1 working day a week).

 A total of £6000 / annum, from School QR budgets, was delegated to the unit directly for
 investment in grant seed-funding and impact-related activities. The larger part of this
 investment has supported an Impact RA, responsible for assisting in the development,
 articulation and evidence gathering for the two impact case studies.

 Faculty and Arts Institute: investment and infrastructure
 Researchers in the unit are further supported by the School’s investment of £6750 in a heritage
 consultant (2017-18), and the Faculty’s £10,000 investment (2015-17), which facilitated impact
 partnerships and consultation. The Arts Institute invested in a visiting speaker programme,
 facilitating workshops for all staff within the Faculty, focussing on grant capture and impact. The
 Research and Innovation (R&I) team provide the institutional infrastructure for all aspects of the
 grant capture process and impact across the institution: R&I’s team of research professionals
 provide 1-1 support on grant applications, grant finance and impact. A final £750 / annum of QR
 funding supports the unit’s research seminar series and research away days. The seminars
 (3/semester) are a platform for staff, PGRs and invited speakers to share new research. Annual
 research away days are an important feature of the unit’s cohesion: during this time, we set our
 priorities for the coming year, we receive training from research professionals (e.g., Impact,
 Open Access) and media consultants, and share new research projects.

 HEIF funds supports knowledge exchange and impact-related projects:
 A Faculty knowledge exchange team, The Bridge, provide a professional, business-facing
 infrastructure for knowledge-exchange and impact-related activities. A nexus point for research
 staff across the faculty and external partners, The Bridge has supported four projects involving
 English and Creative Writing research. Gray’s contributions to the National Trust’s curatorial
 project, Tide and Time, received £2,000 investment, and her work to support the delivery of the
 Wampum: Stories from the Shells of Native American exhibition (2020), was awarded £800, for
 the delivery of workshops at exhibition locations. The Bridge supported B. Smith’s involvement
 in the Port Eliot Festival (2017), where he led daily newspaper production project and facilitates
 his involvement in a project to support the sustainability and creative interpretation of Fingle
 Woods, an HLF-funded partnership that includes the National Trust and the Woodlands Trust.
   Knowledge                Research theme       Source            Total invested
   Exchange and /or
   Impact project
   Port Eliot Festival      PCIF                 The Bridge        £4000
   (2017)                                        (HEIF)
   Tide and Time            TLS                  The Bridge        £2,000
   (2019/ 20)                                    (HEIF)
   Impact consultant        ALL (and Faculty)    Effervescent      £10,000
   (2015-17)
   Heritage Consultant      ALL                  School QR         £6750
   (2017-19)
   Wampum: Stories          TLS                  The Bridge        £800
   from the Shells of                            (HEIF)
   Native American
   (2019)


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Plastic Scoop (2019)    ELS                    Sustainable       £4000
                                                 Earth Institute
                                                 (SEI)
 Facilities
 Digital archives (including EEBO, ECCO, JSTOR), limitless inter-library loan facilities, as well as
 dedicated subject librarians, provide access to necessary research materials. The unit further
 benefits from the public engagement and programming arm of the Faculty, the Arts Institute
 (formerly Peninsula Arts, the University’s cultural programming organisation), which hosts
 lectures and events, enabling the dissemination of our research to wider audiences. The Arts
 Institute’s cultural programme provides an infrastructure through which researchers in the unit
 shape and foster public participation in matters of intellectual, civic, national and international
 significance (e.g., environmental issues, colonial heritage, civic histories). The Bridge offers a
 mechanism for developing knowledge-exchange partnerships, as above, and the Arts Research
 Office, provides outstanding conference support at every stage, from planning to delivery, across
 the whole Faculty.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Overview:
 Since 2014, a core strand of our research strategy has been to enable and cultivate cross-
 disciplinary partnerships with cognate disciplines, History and Arts Practice, as well as
 disciplines with intrinsically different methodologies, including Marine Science and
 Environmental Science. In our collaborations with cognate and non-cognate disciples, we have
 published five co-edited and interdisciplinary collections of essays, ‘special issues’ for
 interdisciplinary journals and (co-) organised ten interdisciplinary conferences, including subject
 association conferences (Transatlantic Studies Association, Association for the Study of
 Literature and the Environment, digital Research in the Humanities and the Arts).

 Through each of the research themes, cross-disciplinary and collaborative partnerships have
 enabled discourses of literary-critical engagement to shape responses to current social and
 cultural debates, including 1) internationally significant anniversary events related to the
 centenary of The Great War and women’s suffrage (AK Smith), and 2) Mayflower 400, the UK
 strand of an international partnership with Plymouth400 (Massachusetts), Mayflower 400 Leiden,
 and the Wampanoag Advisory Council (US) (Gray).

 Contribution to discipline, through collaborations with History, Science and Arts Practice:
 Through our research themes and the work of individual researchers, the unit’s contribution to
 the discipline can be characterised in the ways that it has embodied interdisciplinary working
 practices.

 History
 Collaborations with colleagues in cognate fields, particularly History, resulted in the development
 of Plymouth University Nineteenth-Century Studies (PUNCS 2015-2019), of which Bautz was a
 founding member, together with colleagues from History and Law. PUNCS has delivered two
 international interdisciplinary conferences hosted at UoP, focussing on 19th-century approaches
 to law and political union, culminating in two co-edited collections of essays, published by
 Routledge. AK Smith’s AHRC-funded research networks related to War and Suffrage
 predicated on partnerships with leading historians in these fields, have led to the publication of
 two co-edited collections of essays and a co-edited special issue journal in this REF cycle.
 Moreover, the suffrage project, ‘What Difference did the War make?’ culminated in public talks,
 school-engagement activities with local MPs, and an exhibition in the Houses of Parliament,
 marking the centenary of the female vote in the UK. Working with colonial historians, the British
 Library, and the Institute for Historical Research, Gray co-steered the Pocahontas and After
 conference, enabling interdisciplinary approaches to the legacies of colonial heritage and
 indigenous experiences, and culminating in a day of public-engagement activities and cultural
 events. (2017).



                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Science
 Since 2014, we have actively sought to challenge the limits of disciplinary boundaries and
 established critical discourse and creative practice as key drivers to projects and debates that
 respond to questions of environmental change. Within the institution, members of the English
 unit sit on the committees of influential interdisciplinary institutes within the University – the
 Sustainable Earth Institute/Sustainability Hub (Sergeant) and the Marine Institute (Bloomfield).
 In June 2020, Sergeant became co-supervisor of a two-year Creative Industries Research
 Fellow for Low Carbon Devon at the Sustainability Hub on a project that works at the interface
 between creative industries and academia to help companies in Devon to reduce
 their carbon reliance and move to a cleaner economic growth model and is part of a £2.6 million
 from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF. This project supports Devon-based
 organisations to access research, business support, and engage with the University of Plymouth
 around the low-carbon agenda. Bloomfield co-edited a Textual Practice Special Issue, ‘Beyond
 the Gene: Epigenetic Science in 21st Century’ 29.3 (Spring 2015) (Bloomfield), an issue which
 brought together the practices and disciplines of biomedical researchers and literary scholars.
 Sergeant is a founding steering committee member of the interdisciplinary UK Future Earth ECR
 and Practitioner Network (UKFE ECRP). B. Smith is a member of the New Networks for Nature,
 an interdisciplinary network for scientists, writers and artists. B. Smith contributed to the UK
 Earth System Modelling project with Crosscurrents (2017), an initiative that paired scientists with
 creative writers to explore and investigate their practices and methodologies, culminating in a
 public event, ‘Poetry and Marine Science,’ held at the Plymouth Marine Laboratory (2017). The
 cross-disciplinary research initiative, Environmental Cultures (led by Bloomfield and Sergeant),
 supported by the Arts Institute, fosters a programme of research seminars, workshops, and
 public events, in collaboration with scholars working in photography, geography, environmental
 science, and marine science.

 Arts Practice
 As part of a strategy to diversify our disciplinary partnerships and shape public debates,
 researchers in the unit have collaborated closely with arts practitioners from the visual arts and
 theatre. These partnerships enable the shaping of public discourse on key debates related to
 colonial heritage and environmental change.

 Visual Art: As part of the cultural programme of events for the Mayflower anniversary, Gray and
 Bloomfield collaborated with the ACE-funded Speedwell Project, a visual art project by Still
 Moving. In 2019 Gray participated in two research sharing events, one for John Akomfra and his
 team, and another for a group of ten international artists, commissioned by the Fuller Craft
 Museum to create Another Crossing, a contemporary art exhibition, responding to the Mayflower
 anniversary (Massachusetts and Plymouth, UK, 2020/21). Sergeant’s AHRC-funded ‘Feasts for
 the Futures’ project enabled collaboration with artist Barnaby Stone, and Bloomfield’s
 collaboration with the Sustainable Earth Institute (UoP) and artist Andy Hughes, using gaming
 imagery and narrative design, has culminated in a film project, “Plastic Scoop”, predicated on
 material implications of pollution and environmental damage. (Newsweek, online 19/9/19)

 Theatre: Sood’s expertise on Frederick Douglass featured in a collaborative theatrical
 performance, ‘Send Back the Money!’ (Edinburgh, 2018), performed at Edinburgh's Jam House
 Theatre, the exact location that Douglass spoke to audiences in 1843. Gray’s research directly
 informed the work of professional storyteller, Katy Cawkwell, in her work, ‘The Story of the
 Mayflower’, and Darlington developed a KS2 school’s project with a professional storyteller,
 enabling practices of relational engagement with nature.

 Contributions to other sectors and economies:
 As part of our impact and knowledge exchange strategy, we have established and grown
 collaborative partnerships within the cultural, heritage, environmental and charitable sector.

 Museum, Culture and Heritage
 Research excellence in the unit underpins our partnership with Plymouth’s completely
 refurbished and extended Museum and Art Gallery, now called The Box (opened, 2020). A

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 successful AHRC CDA (2013-17) reinterpreted a designated national collection, the Cottonian
 Collection, (supervised by Moore, Bautz and Latimer); further to this research collaboration,
 investment of £5000 to The Box from industry-specialists Towns Web Archiving, enabled the
 delivery of a scoping project to support a longer-term digitizing of the collection (Bautz /
 Latimer). Moore is a member of the Board of The Box, involved in writing the successful £14m
 HLF grant to support its renovation, part of the £45m investment in this capital project. Through
 this period of regeneration, Gray worked directly with curators and learning officers at The Box
 as they worked towards their reopening, collaborating on the flagship exhibition, Mayflower 400:
 Legend and Legacy (an 18-month loans exhibition, co-curated with Indigenous partners, with
 over 300 objects from UK, European and US archives and museums). As noted in Gray’s
 Impact Case Study, Mayflower 400, The Box recorded 17,000 visitors in the first three weeks of
 opening (Sept 2020), operating at maximum capacity whenever possible (following regional and
 national COVID restrictions). Following the successful partnership with Indigenous leaders and
 scholars, Legend and Legacy led to a second exhibition, Wampum: Stories from the Shells of
 Native America (an ACE funded UK touring exhibition), created by Indigenous partners for a UK
 audience. Sood’s scholarship on the connections between Douglass and Robert Burns featured
 in an exhibition at the Frederick Douglass National Historic Site, Washington D.C.,

 The National Trust
 Gray’s work has framed the National Trust’s Tide and Time Mayflower curation (2019/20), and
 internal allocation of £2000 HEIF investment has supported the completion of five distinct
 research projects, at five properties in the South West, uncovering transatlantic connections of
 five NT properties, forming the basis of the online and site-based curation of this project. PGR
 students have been involved in completing this research and presenting the findings. Working
 with colleagues in architecture and illustration, B. Smith leads the unit’s contribution to another
 National Trust project (in collaboration with the Woodlands Trust) to protect and interpret Fingle
 Woods, an 825-acre ancient woodland site.

 The charitable and environmental sector:
 Our research has benefited several charities and environmental groups, contributing to society
 and the economy in a number of ways. Sergeant’s AHRC Leadership award, included a
 programme of work with REGEN, a not-for-profit centre of energy expertise, called ‘Feasts for
 the Future,’ enabling grassroots community-based groups to explore issues of renewable
 energy, community resilience and sustainable community living. Sergeant’s research is also
 contributing to Devon Net-Zero Task Force on a project to use situated utopian futures as part of
 a drive to reduce Devon carbon emissions to net-zero by 2050. Darlington’s research,
 specifically her contributions to the field of New Nature Writing in her book-length study Owl
 Sense and evidenced in her Impact Case Study, Nature Connections, continues to shape
 debates about conservation through the language of caring and creative practice. Through
 strategic collaborations with charitable and environmental bodies, including Effervescent, a
 social inclusion charity in Plymouth, Paignton Zoo, the Woodlands Trust, Devon Wildlife Trust
 and Hereford Wildlife Trust, the Barn Owl Trust, and the British Trust for Ornithology (BTO),
 Darlington’s expertise has shaped local social inclusion projects and is also part of the BTO’s
 national campaign to preserve bird species close to extinction.

 Cultural discourse through public lectures, print and broadcast media:
 Beyond academic and non-HEI partnerships, the unit delivered a total of eleven public lecture
 series, through the Arts Institute (formerly Peninsula Arts), showcasing our research and that of
 the wider field through invited speakers. These include seven series of poetry readings and
 lectures, one annually (2014-2020) (Caleshu); lectures and roundtable discussions for ‘Mariner:
 a painted ship upon a painted ocean,’ (B. Smith, Bloomfield, and Moore) and ‘What Might a
 Better World Look Like?’, with speakers from creative writing, ecological economics, marine
 biology (Sergeant); Women in History Lecture Series (Latimer, Gray); Mayflower Lecture
 Series (Gray). Research contributions to cultural discourse through the media can be
 demonstrated through broadcast and print media. Darlington’s column in the Times’ Nature
 Notebook (a regular contributor sine 2015) brings her research and creative practice to readers
 nationally and internationally: the average circulation of the Saturday Times (digital and print

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 combined) is 11503000. Wild has reviewed twenty-two books on 18th-century literature since
 2013 for the Times Literary Supplement, as well as a National Theatre re-interpretation of
 Pamela: pieces published include full-length cover feature articles on eighteenth-century print
 culture and reading habits, Charlotte Lennox, Oliver Goldsmith, and a review of the new
 definitive scholarly edition of Robinson Crusoe (76,000 subscribers, 2019). Contributions to
 broadcast media include AK Smith, Woman’s Hour, ‘Women's lives on the Home Front in Radio
 4's new WW1 drama’ (2014); Hinds In Our Time ‘Titus Oates and his 'Popish Plot'’ (2016); Gray
 Radio 4’s Sunday: The Mayflower - 400 years (2019), Book of the Week on Radio 4 for
 Darlington’s Owl Sense (2018); B. Smith Open Book, based on his novel Doggerland (2019);
 Sood, BBC Two documentary Burns in the USA (Jan 25 2017, repeated Jan 25, 2018).

 Research Councils and Subject Associations:
 AHRC peer review college (AK Smith, Caleshu, Moore, Finkelstein); ‘Off College’ reviewer for
 the AHRC (Gray, Bloomfield). Gray judges the TSA CUP annual book prize; Bloomfield sits
 on the Steering Committee for the Association for the Study of Literature and the Environment
 (ASLE UK) and hosted the association’s conference in 2019; Gray sat on steering committees
 for the Society for Early Americanists (SEA) topics conference (2020 -cancelled), the TSA
 annual conference (Plymouth 2016; Lisbon2020 - postponed), and a major four-nations
 Mayflower conference at the University of Leiden (August 2020).

 The most visible contribution to the discipline is our track-record in organising international
 conferences, in Plymouth and in partnership with subject associations.

 International Conference Organisation: Doris Lessing: An International Conference (2014),
 Communities of Communication II: Newspapers and Periodicals in Britain and Ireland from
 1800-1900 (University of Edinburgh, 2015), Alternate Spaces of War’ Plymouth (July 2015);
 Contemporary Poetry: Thinking and Feeling (2016), Feeding the Insatiable (Schumacher
 College, 2016), Language, Landscape & the Sublime (Schumacher College, 2016), TSA annual
 conference (Plymouth 2016), ‘A time of judg(e)ment’, (Plymouth 2016), Union and Disunion in
 the Nineteenth Century (Plymouth, 2017), Data Ache, the Digital Research in the Humanities
 and Arts Conference (2017), Pocahontas and After (BL and IHR, 2017), Digital Age, (University
 of Edinburgh, 2017), ASLE-UKI Biennial Conference (2019), Forming the Future (Plymouth,
 2019), TSA annual conference (Lisbon 2020, postponed), Society for Early Americanists topics
 conference (Exeter and Plymouth 2020, cancelled due to Covid-19).

 Keynotes and invited talks:
 AK Smith: British Library, (2014); Queen Elizabeth Hall, South Bank Centre (2014); Harvard
 (2015); Glasgow Women's Library (2014); Plymouth Book Festival (2014 /18) ; Northampton
 Museum and Art Gallery (2014); People's History Museum, Manchester (2016); University of
 Aberdeen (2017); National Archives, Kew (2018); National Trust talk, Killerton House, Devon
 (2018).
 Gray: Omohundro Institute of Early American History and Culture (Chicago, 2015), International
 Women’s Day lecture (UoP, 2018), Annual Mayflower Lecture (UoP 2017), Plymouth City Art
 Gallery and Museum (2019), American Historical Association, Presidential panel, New York,
 (2020).
 Bautz: Heidelberg University
 Sergeant: Being Human Public Lecture (2018), Kipling Society AGM (2017), British Academy
 Rising Star Engagement Award (2017), Plymouth Arts Centre, 2018, Cognition Innovation
 conference (2016), Coastal Cultures of the Long Nineteenth Century (2015)
 Darlington: West Meon Literary Festival (2014), BBC Radio 3 Proms Festival Gavin Maxwell
 Centenary talk with author Horatio Clare (2014), Devon Wildlife Trust Talks on ‘Otter Country’
 (2014), PIBF (2014) Kingsbridge Natural History Society talk on ‘Otter Country’ (2014),
 Ecopoetry Masterclass, Coleridge Cottage (2015), Brandis Corner Natural History Society
 (2016), Wealden Inaugural Nature Writing festival (2016)
 Hinds: Plymouth Shakespeare Society (2014-2020)
 Bloomfield: Poetry and Projectivism, (Cardiff, 2018); Oceanic Poetics (Kent, 2017) and
 ContemPo talk (2016)

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Moore: Classical Celtic, National Museum of Wales (2014), “New Approaches to Ossian”, Royal
 Irish Academy Dublin (2016), First World Congress of Scottish Literature, Glasgow (2014)
 Classical Celtic.
 Caleshu: invited poetry readings: UReading (2018), UExeter (2019) UManchester (2020)

 Contributions to peer review and academic publishing demonstrate national and international
 esteem:

 Editorial boards and Special Issues:
 Boards: Routledge, The Journal of War and Culture Studies, JISC Historic Texts Advisory
 Board, The Kipling Journal, Environmental Cultures, Bloomsbury Academic, Green Letters:
 Studies in Ecocriticism, Periplum, CUP, Anthem Press, Pickering and Chatto, Presse
 Universitaire de Nancy, Media History and Victorian Periodicals Review, EUP. Special Issue:
 Textual Practice, Women’s Writing, European Journal of War Writing.

 Peer Review: Routledge, Palgrave, Bucknell, CUP; MUP; UVaPress; The American Academy at
 Berlin, Bloomsbury Academic, University of Toronto Press, Ashgate Press, Anthem Press,
 Oxford University Press, Pearson Education, Penn State University Press, Pickering and Chatto,
 Polity Press, Rowman and Littlefield Publishers, University of Chicago Press, University of
 Toronto Press, Yale University Press, Edinburgh University Press. Journal of American Studies,
 Comparative American Studies, Journal for Eighteenth-Century Studies, Journal of Eighteenth-
 Century Studies; Eighteenth-Century Studies; Eighteenth-Century Life; Green Letters: Studies in
 Ecocriticism, English, Journal of British and Irish Linguistically Innovative Poetry, Textual
 Practice, RES, Literature Compass, JECS, Modern Philology , Business History, Cultural
 History, Book History, European Review of History-Revue européenne d’histoire, History of
 Intellectual Culture, Journal of the Edinburgh Bibliographical Society, Journalism Studies,
 Journal of Material Culture, Journal of Stevenson Studies, Journal of Victorian Culture, The
 Library, Library Quarterly, Literature Compass, Mémoires du livre / Studies in Book Culture,
 Scottish Geographical Journal, SEL: Studies in English Literature, Victorian Periodicals Review,
 Victorian Studies, Humanities Journal.

 Examination of Doctorates. Staff in the unit have examined theses at the following institutions:
 Trinity College, Dublin, Birmingham, Manchester, Birkbeck, Kent, Glasgow, University of
 Bedfordshire, Royal Holloway, Centre for Advanced Study of Welsh and Celtic, Aberystwith,
 Leeds, UEA, Oxford Brookes, Northumbria, Loughborough.




                                                                                          Page 14
