UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)
 Institution: University of Stirling

 Unit of Assessment: Philosophy D30


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Stirling Philosophy is part of the Division of Law and Philosophy, in the Faculty of Arts and
 Humanities. It is a collegial, supportive and ambitious research community combining a range of
 approaches – empiricist, rationalist, naturalist, idealist – spanning the analytic tradition broadly
 construed and the borders with continental philosophy. We have 12 permanent academic staff,
 joined during the census period by 16 further researchers (postdoctoral fellows, fixed term
 lecturers, emeritus staff). Our strategy is defined by four goals, chosen to enable a unit of our size
 to sustain a robust high-quality research culture:

    (A)   To advance our three clusters of research strength
    (B)   To develop our world-leading graduate programme
    (C)   To sustain an open, diverse, and inclusive research community
    (D)   To integrate impact and interdisciplinarity with core philosophical research

 (A) To advance our three clusters of research strength:

     (i) Legal, Moral and Political Philosophy
     (ii) Mind and Knowledge
     (iii) Philosophy of Logic and Language, including History of Analytic Philosophy

 Built around members’ work, these clusters focus our research, impact and interdisciplinary
 activities, funding applications and appointments. The clusters are chosen to concentrate Stirling
 Philosophy in the medium term on areas in which we excel, while maintaining the breadth
 necessary for a strong research culture. This approach has led to an exceptional success rate in
 grant applications, winning 63% of total external funds applied for in the period.

 During the census period, the Legal, Moral and Political cluster worked on the foundations of
 human rights, the legitimacy of legal and policy interventions, and the nature of practical reason
 and its relation to politics (Cruft, Duff, Hope, Hurtig, Niker). Our Mind and Knowledge cluster
 worked on extended cognition and AI, the epistemology of modal claims and risk, formal
 epistemology, perceptual knowledge, self-consciousness and a priori knowledge (Ebert, Haddock,
 Mandrigin, Millar, Milne, Niker, Roca-Royes, Wheeler, Wright). The Philosophy of Logic and
 Language cluster worked on the nature and epistemology of logic, and on the foundations of
 analytic philosophy including Frege, Ramsey, Russell and Wittgenstein (Ebert, Johnston, Milne,
 Roca-Royes, Sullivan, Wright). Our clusters are supported by and contribute to overarching
 University mission-oriented research themes which bring together staff across faculties: Cultures,
 Communities and Society; Global Security and Resilience; and Living Well.

 Each cluster contributed to Stirling Philosophy’s external grants of £1.7M during the census
 period, with new projects from 2020-21 onwards so far totalling an additional £1.3M. Each cluster
 is a centre of international activity: each held 8-10 conferences in Stirling, elsewhere in the UK
 and US – drawing in 250 philosophers since August 2013.

 The clusters shape our recruitment strategy. In 2014 we appointed a senior research chair
 (Wright) whose work encompasses Mind & Knowledge and Philosophy of Logic & Language, and
 who has led research project development across these two clusters: as PI for major projects
 during the period, and as advisor/mentor developing future projects. During the period each
 cluster recruited 3-6 staff funded by research projects and attracted 2-5 visiting scholars and 9-10
 PGRs each.



                                                                                                 Page 1
UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)
 Our clusters focus both on maintaining income from established sources (AHRC, British Academy,
 Leverhulme, Royal Society of Edinburgh, Scots Philosophical Association, UKRI), and on
 attracting income from funders new to Stirling Philosophy, including EU Horizon 2020, Humboldt
 Foundation, Medical Research Council, Templeton Foundation.

 To achieve robust, sustainable excellence in each cluster, cross-cluster interaction is essential.
 Five staff belong to more than one cluster, and all in Stirling Philosophy come together every
 Thursday for a lunch seminar focused on a member’s work in progress, followed by a visiting
 speaker talk. These events are core to the non-hierarchical ethos in which staff work together on
 each other’s research – an ethos developed by those who built Stirling Philosophy including active
 emeritus professors Duff, Marshall, Millar. Every output in this submission has been discussed
 with colleagues, and many began as Thursday work-in-progress seminars.

 Additional specialist cluster seminars have met regularly, including Knowledge Beyond Natural
 Science Templeton seminars twice per week, timed to include members online in Canada and
 USA; Norms for the New Public Sphere online meetings fortnightly with members in London and
 Warwick; the 2-monthly Stirling Political Philosophy Group (based in philosophy with regular
 participants from Criminology, Law, Politics); plus, the Frege@Stirling and Early Analytic
 workshop series. Two recently-awarded projects – Ebert’s Varieties of Risk (AHRC) and Melis’s
 Agency, Rationality, and Epistemic Defeat (UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship) – emerged from
 work in Knowledge Beyond Natural Science seminars. Ebert’s AHRC project now holds its own
 regular seminars, from which new project planning will emerge.

 (B) To develop our world-leading graduate programme:
 We are equal partners in the outstanding St Andrews-Stirling Graduate Programme in Philosophy
 (SASP). Our programme is ranked 3rd in the UK and 24th worldwide (cf. 2019 Philosophical
 Gourmet Report). Every aspect of the programme is co-operative and collaborative. Students are
 taught and supervised by members of both St. Andrews and Stirling departments. Policy is
 formulated by the joint management committee with equal representation from the two
 universities. Students graduate with degrees from both universities. We attract 50-80 PhD
 applicants p.a., with 40-60 PGRs registered at any time, 10-15 graduating per year, with Stirling
 staff providing 30% of PGR supervision reflecting our staff numbers (c. 30% of combined total
 programme staff).

 The graduate programme plays a central role in Stirling Philosophy’s research culture, enabling
 staff to share ideas, talks, papers with strong research students, who go on to Philosophy jobs
 worldwide. The large graduate body attracts visiting students and researchers, helping maintain
 our three clusters of research strength. During the census period 9 graduate/ECR conferences
 were hosted in Stirling. Since 2014, 39 PhDs have gone on to postdocs, lectureships and teaching
 posts in 18 countries in Europe, Africa, North and South America, Asia and Australasia.

 Our PGRs are fully integrated into our research community – as co-researchers in our Thursday
 work-in-progress and visiting speaker seminars. They participate alongside staff in the training,
 mentoring, networking events offered by the Institute of Advanced Studies (IAS), and benefit from
 a range of PGR funding support. Many PGRs enter via our SASP PGT MLitt. Our programme is
 designed to build a diverse, intellectually vibrant body of graduate students that enhances our
 research culture.

 (C) To sustain an open, diverse, and inclusive research community.
 We strive to be an open, welcoming unit that recognises and respects individuals’ differences,
 including the Equality Act’s Protected Characteristics encompassing age, disability, gender
 reassignment, marriage and civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity, race/ethnicity, religion or
 belief, gender or sex, and sexual orientation – as well as social class, multilinguality and
 nationality. We are committed to improving our inclusiveness and to resisting exclusionary,
 silencing practices.



                                                                                              Page 2
UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)
 One step towards this goal is the British Philosophical Association - Society for Women in
 Philosophy good practice scheme. We were the first Scottish philosophy unit to implement this
 (Dec. 2014), introducing policies for curriculum change, recruitment, speaker seminars, staff
 training, office/equipment provision.

 A further step towards our inclusivity goal is our support for the SASP Minorities and Philosophy
 chapter: http://stirlingbus.com/map/ The chapter’s inaugural conference – on Silencing, Prejudice,
 and Resistance – was held at Stirling, June 2019.

 This work is complemented and informed by the University’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 (EDI) policies, as realised through the Faculty of Arts and Humanities EDI Action Plan (instituted
 2018). Philosophy’s approach is often taken as an example of best practice for the University.
 Wider institutional structures, including Athena SWAN action, Aurora and ‘Stepping Stones’ career
 development programmes support our inclusivity goal.

 Recent recruitment has altered the gender balance in the unit: eight women have been recruited
 during the census period. Three, recruited on fixed-term contracts as research fellows or
 replacements for staff with research buy-out, have gone on to permanent or tenure-track positions
 in Tilburg, UC Davis and Kent, and one to the Bios Centre think-tank. From early 2020 we planned
 our hosting of the annual conference of the Society for Women in Philosophy (held online Jan.
 2021).

 (D) To integrate impact and interdisciplinarity with core philosophical research
 We are committed to interactive interplay between practice and academic philosophy, and
 between philosophy and related disciplines.

 Two assumptions underpin our approach to impact. First, we believe impact benefits philosophical
 research: work with practitioners (activists, business, lawyers, policy-makers, technologists,
 members of the public) deepens philosophical understanding, just as philosophical work helps
 shape practitioners’ conceptions. Secondly, we see academic philosophy as firmly within the
 public sphere and believe our academic work should speak to or benefit all. We do not insist that
 impact be built into all work (e.g. Roca-Royes’s AHRC Leadership Fellowship on epistemology of
 modality focused on strong ‘pure research’); but we have had success integrating even ‘abstract’
 work into dissemination, e.g. through Cafés Philosophiques (Blackwell’s Bookshop, Edinburgh) in
 which novels/films underpin public debates on scepticism, personal identity, conceptual loss.

 We are committed to interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary research, just as we are committed to
 co-research with non-academic practitioners. We see impact and interdisciplinarity as connected:
 both bring philosophical research into creative interplay with complementary perspectives,
 practical and intellectual.

 Our impact and interdisciplinarity strategy builds on staff interests within Philosophy’s research
 clusters, utilising a diverse collaborative network – across the University and globally – to
 incorporate successful impact practice, and to develop interdisciplinary/practitioner relationships
 for each cluster. Within the University we benefit from an Impact Officer, impact training via IAS,
 and an Impact Champions group. We benefit from the University research themes, supported by
 cross-disciplinary awaydays, Faculty research showcases, and Stirling’s annual Festival of
 Research. Philosophy’s members contribute as convenors of the Political Philosophy Group,
 participants in the Behavioural Science Centre, as co-researchers with Computing Science, Media
 Studies, and as mentors for interdisciplinary Research Fellows affiliated to Computing Science,
 Literature, and Psychology.

 The practices and relationships developed through this strategy – organic development of our
 clusters’ impact and interdisciplinarity through institutional and global connections – are supported
 by three mechanisms: funded projects, workload allocation, and engagement activities:



                                                                                                 Page 3
UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)
 Funded research projects:
    We strongly support interdisciplinary projects involving co-research with or dissemination to
    non-academic practitioners. During the census period, thirteen staff have been PI/CI in seven
    such projects. Highlights include three projects focused on Distributed Cognition, working with
    colleagues at Durham, Edinburgh, Oxford and QMU, partnering with National Museum
    Scotland, Talbot Rice Gallery (£600K, £80K, C$120K, 2014-22); the Diaphora Horizon 2020
    project seconding Stirling-supervised PGRs to NGOs working on irresolvable political
    disagreement (£425K); the Norms for the New Public Sphere AHRC project integrating staff
    from a technology think-tank and a media regulator (£413K, 2019-21). Two major new projects,
    starting after the REF period, were developed from projects during the period, one combining
    philosophy of behavioural science with partners Glenmore Lodge and Scottish Avalanche
    Information Service (£614K, 2020-23), the other integrating epistemology with Stirling
    Psychology and Vienna University of Veterinary Medicine (£1.02M, 2021-25).

 Allocating staff time
    We support impact and interdisciplinary work through mentoring and targeted hours within the
    Faculty’s Workload Allocation Model. Supported activities during the period include our Impact
    Case Studies, the funded projects above, and further activities including: collaboration with
    Cyborg Nest (human enhancement company, generated Innovate UK Smart application with
    Philosophy and Law); nudge management research with corporate partner, Porsche
    Consulting (now regularly used for client incentive schemes); work with Stirling Computing
    Science, Economics and Psychology colleagues (incl. Leverhulme application), and with LSE,
    UGhana and Ibadan colleagues on African approaches to moral and political theory.

 Public engagement events/writing:
   Project funding supports public events, including Cafés Philosophiques and public lectures in
   Stirling/Edinburgh (Knowledge Beyond Natural Science Templeton project, £646K, 2017-20).
   Our work as a Royal Institute of Philosophy branch funds regular public discussions, including
   Liviu Babitz (Cyborg Nest) on human enhancement, Jonathan Coffey (BBC Panorama) on
   impartial broadcasting. Staff receive workload allocation to write for non-academic outputs and
   social media and have authored widely.

 Impact Case Studies
 Our impact and interdisciplinarity strategy underpins all activities above plus our two impact case
 studies.

 Building Rights into UK Media Regulation: Major impact on media regulators emerged from links
 forged in four interdisciplinary funded projects held by Cruft as PI (AHRC network (2009-12),
 AHRC early career grant (2010-12), BA Mid-Career Fellowship (2015-16), current Norms for the
 New Public Sphere AHRC project (2019-22). Cruft used dedicated workload time to develop these
 building on his philosophical research on rights. Cluster colleagues and further collaborators (e.g.
 Onora O’Neill, Leif Wenar) advised on incorporating practitioners through co-research workshops
 and policy briefs; institutional media training assisted practitioner-focused dissemination; workload
 allocation was used to develop the network built through past landmark impact (e.g. Leveson
 Inquiry evidence, 2012), in order to deliver new impact in the current period.

 Philosophical insights to improve outdoor sports decision-making, education, and practice: We
 developed this potentially life-saving impact on outdoor sports educators by allocating Ebert’s time
 to share research on risk/rationality with Stirling’s Behavioural Science Centre, plus a wider
 network including academics and professionals (e.g. L. A. Paul, Mark Diggins (Scottish Avalanche
 Information Service)). This delivered major cross-disciplinary outputs in philosophy and specialist
 sports journals. Travel funding, plus institutional media training, built strong relationships, further
 supported by RSE (2018) and current Varieties of Risk AHRC (2020-22) projects building in
 practitioner co-research.

 Our strategy supports impact across the research clusters, not limited to the two case studies
 above. Workload allocation (including grant development resulting in £80K AHRC follow-on
                                                                                                  Page 4
UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)
 award), along with institutional funding enabled Wheeler and Anderson to collaborate with
 Edinburgh’s Talbot Rice Gallery to co-create The Extended Mind exhibition:
 https://www.trg.ed.ac.uk/exhibition/extended-mind, 12 artists, 3500 visitors, reported in The Times
 and New Scientist, building on the History of Distributed Cognition project with Edinburgh Classics
 and Philosophy colleagues. The exhibition learning space broadcast podcasts by Anderson and
 Wheeler; catalogue and podcasts reference their outputs; both co-authored the catalogue with
 curator James Clegg, who writes:

    ‘[W]e have received numerous proposals to create exhibitions based on academic research;
    The Extended Mind is the first proposal of this nature we made this kind of commitment to. […]
    The distributed cognition research programme – by validating embodied experiences, thinking
    through materials, and a broad spectrum of ideas about how and where thinking takes place –
    really emboldened the curatorial vision for the project’.

 Artist Myriam Lefkowitz writes: ‘the exposure to the underlying research ideas in the context of the
 exhibition has prompted me to think again about some of the themes that shape my artistic
 projects’. Artist Marcus Coates writes: ‘following my involvement in ‘The Extended Mind’ project,
 it has now become… obvious to me that... embodied thinking... [is] absolutely central in art. In a
 sense, all art exemplifies the extended mind.’ The closing public-facing event drew on Anderson’s
 and Wheeler’s network including philosophers Andy Clark, Jesse Prinz, Giovanna Colombetti who
 spoke alongside the artists. Wheeler, Anderson, and gallery staff ran exhibition workshops with
 primary schoolchildren, trainee psychotherapists, the Ragged University, people affected by
 homelessness, and maximum security prisoners at HMP Shotts.

 The activities above demonstrate ongoing success for our impact and interdisciplinarity strategy.
 We will continue to use workload allocation, institutional structures and external funding to foster
 connected research that draws academic and practitioner strengths from our diverse networks.

 Open Access and Research Integrity
 Stirling Philosophy’s strategic research goals (A)-(D) are supported by strong policies on open
 access and research integrity:

 Stirling is a pioneer in open access to research. The institutional repository STORRE provides
 green open access to all outputs. Listed on staff webpages, searchable at the University Research
 Hub, outputs are made available automatically or, if under publisher embargo, by automated
 request enabling communication between requesting individual and author. Philosophy
 publications were downloaded from STORRE 30,000 times during the census period, with 34
 months in Stirling’s top-10 downloads, 2014-20. The University also has a generous, dedicated
 fund supporting gold open access publishing, plus agreements with Brill, Springer, Wiley. All
 Philosophy applications to this fund have been successful, supporting 13 publications in the
 period.

 Stirling has a rigorous research ethics system, whose running and design draws on Philosophy
 expertise. Stirling subscribes to UK Research Integrity Office, Scottish Research Integrity
 Network, and the Concordat to Support Research Integrity. Ethics applications are managed
 through the secure online Ethics Research Manager.
 2. People

 Our staffing strategy is at the core of our research goals. Since REF2014, we have made strategic
 appointments to bolster research clusters:

  • One world-leading, cluster-spanning senior research chair (Wright); fractional retention of two
    emeritus professors for continuity, mentoring and research strength (Duff and Millar, until late
    2015);
  • One EC permanent lectureship (Niker), replacing Tomalty in our Legal, Moral, Political cluster;
  • Targeted appointment of 13 further EC researchers, through Stirling’s Anniversary and Impact
    Fellowship schemes, through external funders including AHRC, Leverhulme, Templeton
                                                                                                Page 5
UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)
     Foundation, and buyouts for permanent staff with research grants from AHRC, BA and
     Humboldt Foundation. Since the census period, we have appointed one further ECR as RA
     within the AHRC Varieties of Risk project, and a former RA is returning as UKRI Future Leader
     Fellow. When replacing permanent staff bought out externally, we are committed to funding
     full lectureships with teaching and research responsibilities, whenever permitted by funder
     and University.

 Of the 14 ECRs in Stirling Philosophy during the census period, four are attached to research
 projects rather than independent researchers, four have gone on from temporary positions at
 Stirling to permanent posts, two to further temporary posts, and three interdisciplinary fellows (two
 with outputs to B11 and D27, one (Mandrigin) to Philosophy) and one lecturer (Niker) are in post
 at the census date.

 We made these appointments against a background of strong staff retention (of the 15 staff
 submitting outputs to REF2021, 12 were in post for REF2014), reflecting our ambitious, long-view
 collegial research clusters, our strategies for organic growth on impact and interdisciplinarity, and
 our development-focused, supportive staffing policies. Below, we outline (i) research-focused
 support structures for staff; (ii) mentoring and support schemes underpinning these structures,
 including for EC staff and staff with caring responsibilities; (iii) support for research students; (iv)
 structures to address our equality and diversity challenges; (v) research administration and
 communication structures.

 (i) Research-focused support for staff

 Stirling Philosophy has a research director responsible for research policy, support and mentoring.
 They regularly discuss research goals with colleagues at the earliest stages, before they take
 shape in written work or funding applications; further colleagues in the area of the project –
 including cluster leaders – share this mentoring role. Most staff work is tested prior to publication
 at our weekly Thursday staff work-in-progress lunch, and staff are encouraged to present work
 widely elsewhere at conferences/seminars. Grant funding applications are conceived as collective
 endeavours and are revised after comments from at least two colleagues with relevant experience.
 In the census period, nine have held external project funding.

 We make full use of institutional research leave. Staff can apply for one semester’s leave after
 six semesters teaching (or two semesters after twelve). We strongly encourage staff to apply as
 soon as eligible, targeting this to what suits the staff member. Time spent on temporary contract
 or on parental, caring or compassionate leave contributes to research leave entitlement. We work
 with staff to coordinate plans for institutional leave with external research applications. The
 University formally monitors the scheme. We are committed to regarding research leave as a
 normal and essential part of our research culture, and we plan for this accordingly. Since 2014,
 leave has been awarded to nine staff members, five of whom took two separate semesters during
 the period, and one for a year.

 Our divisional budget supports all staff (permanent and temporary) with an annual research
 budget for conference travel and related costs: currently £500pa per member, with additional
 funds (e.g. for extra travel or specialist software) allocated on application to the Head of Division.
 Funds are regularly used to support rail travel over air. Since March 2020 we have been
 signatories to the British Philosophical Association good practice Environment scheme, with
 commitments to avoiding air travel and meeting online.

 The Researchers’ Concordat, renewed in 2020, has a positive influence within Stirling Philosophy
 and includes University research induction programmes upon employment (matched by Faculty
 interdisciplinary induction) and the multi-faceted Stirling Researcher Development Programme,
 mapped to the Vitae Researcher Development Framework and managed by IAS available for all
 staff. This programme offers research-focused training courses provided by the University’s
 Research and Innovation Service (RIS), including on publication, grant writing, management of
 research staff, research impact, plus media training.
                                                                                                   Page 6
UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)

 RIS also offers personal support for research grant applications and research administration
 support, including a dedicated Faculty Research Officer; researchers know RIS staff well with
 strong lines of communication. Stirling Philosophy staff (e.g. Ebert, Mandrigin) have benefitted
 from competitive University funding schemes (Connect (<£5k), Connect+ (<£10k) and Spark
 (<£10k)) to support activities from which larger research projects will emerge. Major grants – such
 as the £646K Templeton Knowledge Beyond Natural Science project, the £413K AHRC Norms
 for the New Public Sphere project, and the £614K AHRC Varieties of Risk project – were
 developed in close consultation with RIS, who provide extensive support including on costs, staff
 time, and through significant contributions (total £370K) to projects from University research funds
 additional to external funds.

 (ii) Mentoring and career development support

 Our suite of policies and opportunities for early career researchers includes:

    •   New lecturers, permanent and fixed term, benefit from Stirling’s 3-year probation scheme
        with reduced teaching loads (initially 50%, reducing to 25% in year 3) and no major
        administrative roles;
    •   ECRs are assigned a Senior Colleague, who advises on research plans required by the
        probationary scheme, as well as providing mentoring. Senior Colleagues work closely with
        probationers, reading drafts, suggesting promising directions, advising on outlets for
        presentation/publication and research grants;
    •   The research clusters serve an important role in developing ECRs, inducting them into
        funded research projects from which plans emerge.

 External project funding for permanent staff means we typically employ at least one lecturer on a
 temporary contract at any time. In addition, the Philosophy division is committed to attracting and
 supporting Postdoctoral Research Fellows. Temporary lecturers are treated as full Early Career
 members of the division, benefitting from the same supportive provisions as new permanent
 lecturer ECRs. Both temporary lecturers and postdoctoral fellows are given special support: in
 addition to draft-reading and project advice, Senior Colleagues read temporary staff CVs, advise
 on writing samples, run mock interviews.

 University and Faculty schemes support all staff, and allow all the opportunity to review
 circumstances:

    •   The University’s ‘Achieving Success’ staff development system: an annual opportunity to
        plan research and teaching, to review progress against previous plans, and to discuss
        opportunities and difficulties. All non-probationary staff are involved. Reviews are
        conducted by cluster leaders, who are themselves reviewed by the Head of Division, who
        is reviewed by the Faculty Dean. A key element is to identify ways to help individuals
        realize research goals, e.g. through planning teaching load, workshop support, time for
        impact and interdisciplinary work, reviewing drafts and proposals;
    •   The Faculty mentoring scheme offers targeted mentoring for staff in the following areas:
        Promotion, Applying for Grants & Managing Awards, Taking & Returning from Parental
        Leave, Women Working at Stirling University, Working on Casualised & Temporary
        Contracts, Taking on & Shaping Administrative Work. Stirling Philosophy staff offer
        services as mentors and benefit as mentees – this also fosters cross-disciplinary links.

 The prospects for career progression are a topic for every ‘Achieving Success’ meeting, as well
 as of informal mentoring discussions with Senior Colleagues. The Head of Division works closely
 with colleagues in constructing the case for advancement. Promotion data are published annually.
 During the REF period, two staff have been promoted: to Senior Lecturer (Roca-Royes) and to
 Professor (Cruft), and one Senior Lecturer has been uplifted from 0.5 to 1.0FTE (Johnston). This
 builds on staff promotions (Ebert, Haddock, Johnston, Wheeler) made in the previous REF period.

                                                                                                Page 7
UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)
 In line with our inclusivity commitments, Stirling Philosophy supports the University’s maternity,
 paternity and parental leave schemes, alongside possibilities for fractional contracts and
 flexible working for caring or other reasons. We work with the individual staff member to find the
 best approach for them, and during the census period have supported 3 staff members on
 fractional contracts, 4 further with flexible working hours and 4 with parental leaves. We provide
 reduced loads for staff returning from parental leave and use both the Faculty mentoring scheme
 and informal discussions to help staff returning to work. We are committed to normalising parental
 leave and fractional working for caring and other reasons.

 (iii) Support for research students

 Developing our graduate programme, one of the UK’s most successful, is central to our research
 strategy.

 PhD students have a first supervisor, meeting every 2-3 weeks, and a second supervisor,
 meeting at least once per semester. Supervisors within SASP are allocated according to expertise.
 By providing access to both universities the partnership greatly increases the range of expert
 supervision available. Each student has an annual review with two staff members not involved in
 their supervision. PGRs are required to submit chapters and plans for annual review, along with
 supervisors’ assessments and the student’s assessment of supervision. The review focuses on
 the supervisory arrangement and on progress to completion, with students invited to raise issues
 and reflect. Reviewers act on students’ feedback, making recommendations for interim reviews or
 supervisory changes where needed, and identifying strengths for dissemination. Students are
 offered a mock viva on thesis submission.

 61 PhDs graduated during the period. Of these plus research MPhils, Stirling’s total supervisory
 contribution is detailed below:

  SASP PGRs: number of students with Stirling staff supervision each year
  Year                                       1st supervisor           2nd supervisor
  2013-14                                    23 (18 PhD, 5 MPhil)     22 (18 PhD, 4 MPhil)
  2014-15                                    18 (16 PhD, 2 MPhil)     23 (22 PhD, 1 MPhil)
  2015-16                                    13 (11 PhD, 2 MPhil)     18 (all PhD)
  2016-17                                    12 (all PhD)             16 (all PhD)
  2017-18                                    13 (all PhD)             19 (all PhD)
  2018-19                                    17 (15 PhD, 2 MPhil)     22 (20 PhD, 2 MPhil)
  2019-20                                    22 (all PhD)             18 (all PhD)
  2020-21                                    22 (all PhD)             19 (18 PhD, 1 MPhil)

 This represents supervision of 30% of SASP PGRs, reflecting Stirling’s relative staff numbers. A
 high proportion of our PGRs receive AHRC funding from the Scottish Graduate School in Arts and
 Humanities (SGSAH). We work closely with candidates: both potential supervisors help the
 drafting to ensure strong applications built around innovative projects reflecting supervisor
 strengths and impact potential; SASP gained 40% of SGSAH Philosophy funding during the
 period. We also attract non-AHRC funding, including the following for Stirling-supervised PhDs:
 Templeton Knowledge Beyond Natural Science project (2017-20) funding for four PGRs; Diaphora
 European Training Network (2016-19) with Universities of Barcelona, Stockholm, Munich,
 Edinburgh, Neuchâtel, École Normale Supérieure, involving training with non-academic partners.

 PGRs have a dedicated weekly seminar (Fridays) where they present work to peers; this is widely
 attended, with a minimum of one presentation compulsory for PhD students. Annual reviews
 monitor participation and identify training needs. Each PGR has an annual travel budget for
 conferences (£200 with more on application), and all travel between the two Universities is
 reimbursed. Stirling-based PGRs are provided with office space and workstation. In addition to
 the Friday graduate seminar, all PGRs are strongly encouraged to attend Stirling’s Thursday
 weekly staff work-in-progress seminars and visiting-speaker seminars. Funders (e.g. Scots
                                                                                           Page 8
UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)
 Philosophical Association) regularly support graduate/ECR-organized conferences (9 at Stirling
 in the period).

 Our range of training and support events for PGRs includes generic skills training (e.g. time
 management, academic writing), networking events and interdisciplinary graduate workshops,
 provided by Stirling’s IAS, and by the parallel St Andrews Gradskills. PGRs can also contribute to
 Stirling’s IAS international PG journal. For discipline-specific training, Roca-Royes is SGSAH Co-
 Lead, Philosophy Catalyst, organising wide-ranging events that bring together Philosophy PGRs
 across six Scottish institutions. Supplementing this wider support, our graduate programme offers
 dedicated workshops supporting PGR careers, personal development and well-being – including
 annual workshops on publication in philosophy, on how to apply for jobs, on postgraduate-entry
 jobs outside academia, plus mock academic-job-talks and interview advice; the programme has
 a dedicated Placement Officer. The programme also provides extensive workshops and services
 on inclusion and equality, for current students and at recruitment stage.

 Where possible we offer assistantship or co-researcher roles in funded projects: eg within the
 Norms for the New Public Sphere project, our PGRs have participated as co-researchers in
 workshops alongside academics and practitioners. We allocate fractional lecturing contracts (to
 cover research leave or staff time allocated to impact or administration) where helpful to our PGRs,
 assisting them with experience necessary for job market success. We regard career preparation
 and placement as a priority; see p. 2 for placement record.

 (iv) Equality and diversity

 One of our core Strategic Goals is to build an open, diverse and inclusive research community. In
 adopting the British Philosophical Association (BPA) – Society for Women in Philosophy (SWIP)
 good practice scheme for women in philosophy (Dec. 2014), we developed ongoing policies
 central to our strategic direction and collective self-conception:

    •   We changed recruitment procedures: using anonymised writing samples; designing
        ‘essential criteria’ to avoid excluding people unintentionally (e.g. by linking to a narrow
        recruiting pool); signalling that we think about the social background of our group and want
        to encourage Black, Asian, and Minority Ethnic people and women to apply; making sure
        that short-listed candidates are fully informed about our recruitment processes;
    •   We adopted a new approach to conference/speaker-series planning: targeting invitations
        to under-represented groups, offering childcare provision to all speakers, ensuring suitable
        access for all speakers and participants;
    •   We provide workshops, run specifically by and for Stirling Philosophy, drawing on
        colleagues’ research expertise, that focus on inclusion and exclusion in the academy.
        These present and discuss evidence on implicit bias and stereotype threat. The workshops
        are compulsory for all staff, with new staff (including TAs) given catch-up sessions on
        appointment;
    •   We provide central offices for new and temporary staff who might otherwise be given
        accommodation less close to the heart of Stirling Philosophy;
    •   We redesigned our curriculum at all levels to include diverse authors (incl. percentage
        targets for reading lists by gender), and to introduce new option modules.

 We keep these policies under review and since their 2014 adoption have added:

    •   Commitment to the proactive invitation of applicants from under-represented groups when
        advertising for jobs;
    •   Changing the time of our visiting speaker seminar to enable attendance by staff and
        students with caring commitments;
    •   Commitment to an annual internal report on progress against our policies.

 Note that the child-care provided for visiting speakers is offered through an arrangement with a
 local nursery, with alternative direct funding to pay for carers at the speaker’s home.
                                                                                            Page 9
UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)

 We have supported students (PGR and UG/PGT) in founding the St Andrews-Stirling joint MAP
 chapter (Minorities and Philosophy). Stirling Philosophy works with students running the chapter:
 through advocacy and advice, through staff time for the chapter’s Stirling Faculty Adviser, through
 financial support - e.g. for the launch event, Stirling 2019. The chapter initially surveyed the
 student body, sharing results with the SASP graduate programme joint management committee;
 the Stirling Faculty Adviser worked with students to develop recommendations including MAP’s
 integration at welcome/recruitment events, biweekly well-being lunches, a mentoring programme
 for under-represented groups in Stirling and St Andrews (staff and students), plus links to useful
 resources (including diversity philosophy reading list) and sessions on the inclusive classroom.

 Several of our current policies focus on gender; we are committed to learning lessons for other
 Protected Characteristics including disability, race/ethnicity, gender reassignment, sexual
 orientation. Plans include:

    •   From Dec. 2020, we ask visiting speakers and conference participants to complete an
        equalities monitoring form, enabling us to review diversity of invitees;
    •   Build new divisional policies by looking at elements of best practice in recent funded
        projects (e.g. Norms for the New Public Sphere offers honoraria payments for research
        partners without academic jobs, the position of many in under-represented groups);
    •   Our members are contributing to and learning from Stirling’s current lead role in the
        ‘Decolonising the Curriculum’ collaborative cluster, developing digital teaching resources
        within the QAA Scotland Enhancement Theme, Resilient Learning Communities (2020-
        23).

 Underpinning these policies and activities are the University’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 (EDI) policies, operationalised in the Faculty of Arts and Humanities EDI Action Plan. Originally
 focused on gender, from 2020 the University has adopted a more intersectional approach, with
 key aims across the University being:

    •   To address structural barriers to promotion/advancement from PGRs through to Chairs;
    •   To support continuing professional development for fixed-term research staff;
    •   To widen accessibility of training materials to PGRs studying part time;
    •   To embed equality into all committees with decision-making power.

 Stirling Philosophy has incorporated these policies, and contributes to ongoing development via
 the Faculty Athena Swan committee and through showcasing best practice. The diverse streams
 of the Faculty mentoring scheme are designed to promote equality and inclusion. Staff are
 encouraged to engage with structured career development support for female staff, including
 Aurora (provided by Advance HE) and ‘Stepping Stones’ (an internal programme).

 Our approach to equality and diversity is reflected in our REF output selection process. We are
 committed to full representation of staff: all are supported to develop excellent research, while
 recognising and supporting varied circumstances. Within the framework set by the University and
 through transparent processes, we have ensured that outputs ranked highly by internal and
 external assessors are submitted, and that unpromoted staff and staff from under-represented
 groups are full contributors to the submission. Regular communication on process and
 rapid notification of outcomes has occurred throughout. The process was Equality Impact
 Assessed.

 (v) Research administration and communication

 Departmental meetings of all staff are held twice per semester, including a Research Committee
 comprising the entirety of Stirling Philosophy. This focuses on research strategy and
 administration, while the weekly Thursday seminars and regular cluster meetings focus on
 intellectual development. Between these meetings, the research director maintains regular
 discussion with all staff about plans including for grant funding, and circulates research
                                                                                         Page 10
UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)
 opportunities, convening ad hoc committees to determine e.g. targeting of Leverhulme early
 career fellowship applications. The director sits on the Faculty Research Committee (meeting
 twice per semester – fortnightly since Covid-19) which reports to the University Research
 Committee. For communication with students and externally, the @StirUniPhil twitter account is
 used to share engagement and celebrate successes, as is our website.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Income

 Our four Strategic Goals have successfully delivered research income across the staff range.
 Total grants won from applications submitted during the period come to over £3 million. Total
 grants won and begun during the period are over £1.7 million – compared to £0.9 million
 during the REF2014 period. This reflects staff dedication and the success of our Strategic Goals.

 We build on our research cluster strengths to develop staff as grant winners. This means
 supporting varied projects dependent on staff career stage and current trajectory, and valuing CI
 as well as PI roles. Central grant-winning practices are: a focus within clusters, supporting
 redrafting of applications; our Thursday work-in-progress seminar trialling research; staff research
 budget supporting exploratory workshops and networking; induction of EC staff into grant success
 through early involvement with established projects (e.g. Melis worked within the Knowledge
 Beyond Natural Science project before winning an UKRI Future Leader Fellowship). Established
 staff’s grant successes followed involvement in senior colleagues’ projects (e.g. Cruft’s BA/AHRC
 awards followed work with Duff’s projects; Haddock’s Humboldt Fellowship followed work in
 Millar’s earlier AHRC project; Roca-Royes’s co-leadership in Knowledge Beyond Natural Science
 followed earlier RCUK/AHRC awards). We are strongly committed to grant applications that
 enhance research growth and career development in the round for all staff across clusters and
 career stages. We use Strategic Goals (A)-(D) to serve these aims.

 Our research grant success derives primarily from the following major funded projects (external
 income cited, not FEC). The projects below ran during the period:

 • Norms for the New Public Sphere, AHRC project (£413K of which £360K to Stirling, 2019-22),
   Cruft (PI), Fabienne Peter (Warwick CI), Ashton (Stirling ECRA), Heawood (Stirling industry
   RA), project partner Doteveryone;
 • The Art of Distributed Cognition, AHRC follow-on grant (£80K of which £13K to Stirling, 2019-
   20), Anderson (PI), Wheeler (CI). Following the History of Distributed Cognition project (see
   below);
 • Knowledge Beyond Natural Science, Templeton project (£646K to Stirling, 2017-20), Wright
   (PI), Ebert, Haddock, Roca-Royes, Sullivan, Wheeler (CIs), Carrie Ichikawa Jenkins and
   Jonathan Ichikawa Jenkins (CIs, University of British Columbia), Melis and Merlo (Stirling
   ECRAs) plus 4 PGRs;
 • Diaphora: Philosophical Problems, Resilience and Persistent Disagreement (£425K to Stirling,
   2016-19), Wright (PI), with Ebert, Roca-Royes, Sullivan (CIs); Marie Curie European Training
   Network grant with six European universities plus NGOs;
 • Rights, Roles, and the Individual, Cruft, British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship (£93K, 2016-
   17);
 • The Two Side of Self-Consciousness, Haddock, Humboldt Fellowship for Experienced
   Researchers (£67K, 2017-19);
 • Towards a Non-Uniform Epistemology of Modality, Roca-Royes, AHRC Leadership Research
   Fellowship (£53K, 2015);
 • History of Distributed Cognition, Wheeler (CI) (£23K to Stirling, £600K in total, 2014-18), with
   Universities of Edinburgh, Durham and Oxford, and National Museums of Scotland.

 These awards are supplemented by twelve awards of £10K or less (totalling £43K) including from
 Mind Association, Royal Society of Edinburgh, Scots Philosophical Association, Society for
 Applied Philosophy, Thought Trust, and from CI participation in larger grants.

                                                                                              Page 11
UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)
 The following two applications were developed, submitted and awarded during the census period,
 although the project commencement dates are outwith the current assessment period:

 • Agency, Rationality, and Epistemic Defeat, UKRI Future Leader Fellowship (£1.02M, 2021-
   25), Melis (PI), formerly Knowledge Beyond Natural Science ECRA, with Stirling Psychology
   and Vienna University of Veterinary Medicine.
 • Varieties of Risk, AHRC project (£614K of which £311K to Stirling, 2020-23), Ebert (PI) with
   Edinburgh CI and 2 RAs.

 We aim to have at least two project/fellowship applications submitted at any one time. We work
 together, using cluster seminars, work-in-progress discussions and staff time, alongside close
 support from RIS on administration and finance, to ensure reworkings succeed. We have an
 exceptional success rate, winning 63% of total external funds applied for in the period, 45% of the
 applications submitted – compared to AHRC’s 23% success rate for responsive-mode funding
 (2017/18 data, https://ahrc.ukri.org/about/competitionstatistics/).

 Research infrastructure

 Our primary research infrastructure comprises practices/policies already mentioned: cluster
 subdivisions (Strategic Goal A); strong PGR community (Strategic Goal B); supportive staffing
 structures committed to equality and diversity (Strategic Goal C); and a strong combined impact
 and interdisciplinarity strategy (Strategic Goal D). Before Covid-19, we subsidised weekly post-
 talk dinners after our Thursday seminars, enabling students (PG and UG) and unpromoted staff
 to take a subsidised meal with our visiting speaker (promoted staff attended unsubsidised),
 regularly attracting 8-15 and fostering a connected community of researchers working together.

 These structures are supported by the University’s interdisciplinary research themes and
 programmes. Staff also learn about other disciplines’ work through the annual University Festival
 of Research: all Philosophy staff have presented here. Together, these institutional structures
 generated interdisciplinary interactions with Computing Science, Economics, Health Sciences,
 Law, Literature, Media Studies, Psychology leading to funding from AHRC, MRC, UKRI.

 Alongside cluster members’ and RIS Faculty Research Officer’s support, funding applications are
 supported by the Worktribe automated system. Applicants upload funding drafts to Worktribe and
 name internal peer reviewers (often current Philosophy staff), who are alerted alongside the
 research director with a deadline; automated costings data are generated and validation checks
 run. The RIS Faculty Research Officer negotiates the specific requirements of different funding
 regimes, including costings, proof-reading, fact-checking, monitoring peer review and advising on
 ethics/GDPR compliance and impact – alongside advice from Stirling Philosophy cluster
 members.

 Information Services make tailored IT support available to all staff, and the Library provides
 comprehensive online subscriptions alongside document delivery for external material.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration and contribution to the research base

 Stirling Philosophy staff play a full role in the development of the discipline globally. This furthers
 and is supported by our Strategic Goals. National and international collaboration builds on the
 connected work of our research clusters, and their networked position within the discipline. We
 encourage staff to use research budgets to travel for collaborations to develop joint work, including
 discussion/development meetings. Throughout the census period we also provided equipment for
 regular collaborations online. Supported by the University’s strategic commitment to raise its
 networking profile nationally and internationally, we use Stirling and external project funding to
 host events elsewhere (e.g. interdisciplinary/impact workshops held in Miami Law School, Royal
 Society of Edinburgh, Doteveryone London). These policies mean that throughout the period staff
                                                                                                 Page 12
UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)
 have met regularly, online or in person, with collaborators in Europe, Africa, Asia, Australasia,
 North and South America.

 Our approach has generated a very broad network of collaboration, with staff presenting at 250
 national and international conferences/workshops, 130 as invited/keynotes. EC staff are mentored
 within research clusters, in support of conference presentations and networking. Collaborative
 highlights include:

    •   Distinguished Visiting Professor roles at New York University (Wright, Global Professor),
        University of Texas San Antonio (Wheeler), invitation as Visiting Lecturer, University of
        Ghana (Hope);
    •   Book symposia held on staff draft/recent monographs, in King’s College London and
        Stirling (Cruft, Human Rights, Ownership, and the Individual (OUP 2019)), in Leipzig and
        Utrecht (Haddock, Subject and Object (forthcoming, 2021)), and in Barcelona, Edinburgh,
        Jerusalem, King’s College London, Rutgers (Duff, The Realm of Criminal Law (OUP
        2018)). Four of these events are producing journal special issues/symposia. The second
        volume of a 2-volume festschrift for Wright was published (OUP 2020);
    •   Examination of 51 research students (47 PhDs), including in Europe and North America,
        as well as across the UK;
    •   Visiting scholars drawn from Beijing, Kyoto, Mexico, Nebraska, Neuchâtel, Prague, San
        Jose, São Paulo, Warsaw, among others;
    •   Four staff members are honoured as fellows of learned societies: Duff (FBA, FRSE), Millar
        (FRSE), Sullivan (FRSE), Wright (FAAAS, FBA, FRSE).

 Staff are encouraged, compatible with career stage and wider responsibilities, to undertake
 service to the discipline. Time and mentoring are provided for staff for this purpose. During the
 census period, our contributions to the discipline included the following:

    •   Roles as Principal Editor (Wright) and Managing Editor (Melis) of Thought (Association of
        American Publishers PROSE Award for best new humanities journal, 2015), as Associate
        Editor at British Journal of the Philosophy of Science (Wheeler), at Erkenntnis (Ebert), as
        well as on the Editorial Board of Journal of Social Philosophy, of The Philosophical
        Quarterly (four staff during the period) and on its Management Committee;
    •   Serving on AHRC Peer Review College, Executive Committees of the Aristotelian Society
        and Scots Philosophical Association, Council of the Royal Institute of Philosophy, and
        reviewing for thirteen further Research Councils, Trusts and research bodies;
    •   External reviewers for Philosophy departments at Aberdeen, Dundee, Edinburgh, and
        external professorship referees, Australia and USA;
    •   Co-Lead, Philosophy Catalyst, Scottish Graduate School for Arts and Humanities, leading
        Philosophy PGR training across Scotland;
    •   Reviewing over 350 articles for 60 journals, as well as manuscripts/proposals for CUP,
        HUP, OUP and others.

 We regard this service, with participation by all staff at different stages, as essential to career
 development, and the consequent progress of our research clusters, our PGR programme, and
 inclusivity goals.

 Collaboration and contribution to economy and society

 We are committed to integrating impact with core philosophical work, to benefit both society and
 our research (Strategic Goal D). In addition to work showcased earlier, staff have used their
 allocated time and support for impact by contributing to working groups, public talks, discussions
 spanning our three research clusters, including the following, all developed organically from staff
 research interests via their networks:

    •   Panellist, Melvyn Bragg's In Our Time, focused on truth;

                                                                                             Page 13
UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)
     • Institute of Chartered Bankers sessions on the automated future of banking;
     • Science Europe’s Advisory Committee and Euroscience Open Forum on transparency of
        smart technology;
     • Alpbach Technology Forum on human enhancement technologies;
     • Microsoft Research Labs with Microsoft staff and academics on human and artificial
        intelligence;
     • St George’s House Windsor Castle Consultation, Democracy in a Post-Truth Information
        Age;
     • Meeting with Electoral Commission on fair elections and campaign finance;
     • British Academy working group for report, ‘A Presumption against Imprisonment’;
     • Howard League Scotland Committee, submissions to Scottish Government consultations,
        evidence to Scottish Parliament's Standards, Procedures and Public Appointments
        Committee;
     • Being Human Festival, Science Museum London, on the hidden senses and Head-to-
        Head 2017 Birmingham on colour perception and pain.

 Alongside these public events and targeted meetings with academics and practitioners, staff are
 encouraged to use allocated time for public writing and non-academic outputs. During the census
 period, this includes writing, co-creating or being interviewed for AHRC Arts in Sciences blog,
 AHRC Heritage blog, EUP blog, iCog blog, Imperfect Cognitions, Open for Debate, 33 Senses
 Blog, the Institute of Art and Ideas website, The New Scientist, The Philosopher’s Magazine, the
 Smithsonian Magazine, the Guardian. We regard this work as important both for disseminating
 research that engages the public, and for building networks for future impact.

 We also support staff undertaking major commitments, such as co-editing the Justice Everywhere
 blog (Niker) and the forthcoming Pandemic Philosophy (Bloomsbury) collection for non-
 academics. Further staff advised BBC Radio on planned programmes ‘Beyond Belief’ (Wheeler,
 on religion and AI) and ‘Call Yourself an Impartial Journalist?’ (Cruft) and advised Scottish TV on
 planned drama on robotics (Wheeler) and helped plan and participated in Comfort Zones film
 (Ebert with Morocco media).

 We aim to have multiple strands of impact at different stages of development at any one time,
 reflecting our ethos to support staff appropriate to their career and research development stage,
 and our commitment to involve all three clusters in impact. We are aided by the Faculty
 Communications Officer: alongside press-releases, colleagues’ work is showcased on our
 external webpages and disseminated through institutionally connected media outlets: the
 Communications Office provides workshops on non-academic writing and media training.

 Our examples demonstrate how Stirling Philosophy engages in co-research and develops impact
 with diverse audiences within and beyond academia. The results are institutionally-grounded,
 networked and supported collegial research clusters that advance our four strategic goals.




                                                                                             Page 14
