Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: The Open University

 Unit of Assessment: A3

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 1.1. Context
 The mission of The Open University’s (OU) Unit of Assessment A3 (hereafter ‘the Unit’) is to
 advance understanding of biomedical and societal health and wellbeing, and deliver beneficial
 change to current health discourse, policy, and practice. Our interdisciplinary research ranges
 from laboratory-based biomedicine through to nursing/healthcare policy and clinical practice, is
 aligned with national/international health and wellbeing priorities, and delivers impact via clearly
 delineated links to policymakers, practitioners, and communities. The Unit has enhanced
 professional practice and interagency working and has developed support materials for service
 providers and users. The Unit spans:
     •   The ‘bench’ - science underpinning disease (e.g., cancer genetics)
     •   The ‘bedside’ - practitioner-based investigations (e.g., research into frailty and dementia
         care)
     •   The ‘beyond’ - studies of co-morbidity, mental health, and wellbeing in communities (e.g.,
         work with LGBTQ+ young people).


 1.2. Unit Structure
 The OU’s REF2014 A3 submission largely consisted of Science, Technology, Engineering and
 Maths (STEM) Faculty undertaking biomedical research. To develop collaboration across
 disciplines, the OU aligned quantitative and qualitative health and wellbeing research within the
 University. This led to amalgamation of staff within the School of Health, Wellbeing and Social
 Care (HWSC; Faculty of Wellbeing, Education and Language Studies; WELS) and the School of
 Life, Health and Chemical Sciences (LHCS; STEM) under the auspices of this new A3 Unit (32
 staff, 31.2 FTE; see Section 2.1) that better represents the OU’s strengths in these areas.


 The Unit’s key research themes are depicted in Figure 1, within which the Unit’s research is
 organised via focussed groups. All Unit staff belong to one or more research group(s) that convene
 regularly under the leadership of coordinators . The groups have individual terms of reference that
 focus on sustaining and developing their specific research activities, environments, and
 infrastructure.




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 1: Summary of Unit management, reporting structure, research themes and
 internal/external links. EDIA: equality, diversity, inclusion, and accessibility.


 Unit staff participate in the Health and Wellbeing Strategic Research Area (HWSRA), a key pan-
 University structure that was introduced post-REF2014 to promote and coordinate OU health and
 wellbeing research. The HWSRA supports staff in several UOAs, including A3, A4, B11 and C20.
 The HWSRA offers seed funding for workshops and pilot projects, enabling bid development in
 new research areas. Bootman and Banks have served on the HWSRA’s Management
 Committee since its inception. HWSRA participation has promoted the Unit’s interfaculty and
 external research by enhancing interdisciplinary links (examples given throughout).


 The Unit is managed by a Strategy Panel (5 male / 5 female) drawn from STEM and WELS. The
 Panel has met regularly since REF2014 to enact a strategy supporting research excellence,

                                                                                         Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 publications, bidding, impact, and engagement activities. The Panel reports to Faculty (via
 Associate Deans of Research), School management (HWSC and LHCS) and University
 management (via the PVC-Research, Enterprise, and Scholarship). The Panel informs colleagues
 about REF procedures and responds to university research audits (Figure 1).


 1.3. Achievement of Strategic Aims for Research and Impact following REF2014
 Since REF2014, the Unit’s overarching vision has been to increase sustainability and
 interdisciplinarity, to expand the breadth, agility, and significance of our research, and to ensure
 that the novel biological, nursing and health knowledge generated is translated into impactful
 outcomes, including new diagnostics, policies, investigative tools and interventions for health and
 wellbeing. The mechanisms by which this vision has been realised primarily involve recruitment
 of staff in key areas and implementation of processes to support research development.
 Specifically, the Unit focussed on the following activities.


 1.3.1 Promoting a supportive research environment and making academic/societal contributions
 The Unit supports research excellence by underpinning the development of bidding pipelines, peer
 support for publications and research proposals, collaboration, postgraduate research student
 (PGR) supervision and early career researcher (ECR) mentoring (see Section 2). The research
 groups within the Unit deliver local, peer-based expertise to assist colleagues at all career stages.
 The Unit provides focussed support for staff with high teaching and admin constraints, including
 writing retreats and one-to-one mentoring to maximise returns on their more limited research time.


 The Unit has contributed to national and international healthcare policy, statutory and professional
 guidance and practice design and delivery. We have positively impacted service users’ access to,
 and experiences of, care in the wider community, leading to enhancements in physical and
 psychosocial health and wellbeing. For example, Boyle’s research into decision-making by people
 with dementia led to the development of practical guidance for those living with the condition, and
 their carers. This guidance was widely disseminated to service users, carers, and via services
 (e.g., memory assessment clinics, advocacy forums, support groups), enhancing awareness of
 their rights, facilitating their decision-making abilities, promoting their ongoing social participation,
 and assisting care planning.


 The Unit has also contributed significantly to fundamental biological understanding of debilitating
 and fatal medical conditions, developed new diagnostic and therapeutic technologies, and
 participated in numerous events to promote the public understanding of wellbeing, health policy
 and basic health science. For example, a HWSRA-funded project supported Banks working with
 colleagues in the OU’s UOA B11 and in Milton Keynes University Hospital (MKUH) on automated
 assessment of cardiovascular risk factors leading to coronary artery disease.


                                                                                                   Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 1.3.2 Increasing funding
 To promote bidding activity, staff are assisted with horizon scanning, finding project partners, and
 bid development. Over this REF cycle, the Unit has enhanced peer mentoring, increased grant-
 writing support, and provided strategic funding for pilot studies and novel synergy projects to
 enable staff to explore new research areas, partner with colleagues, generate outputs and access
 new funding streams.


 These strategies have opened new research areas (e.g., Crea/Bootman/Rigas outputs on
 signalling in cancer progression) and facilitated new industrial collaborations (e.g., Crea with
 Volition; described in Section 2). The Unit, in association with the HWSRA, keenly supports bidding
 through mentoring and shared expertise, e.g., a research grant surgery scheme led by Wallace,
 which has facilitated several prestigious funding awards (examples given below). Research
 groups provide specific expertise for peer support, internal review, and encourage collaborative
 bids. More detail on bidding strategy is provided in Section 3.


 1.3.3 Enhancing outputs
 The Unit has developed mechanisms to support staff across the research lifecycle, from designing
 projects, to publishing their findings and maximising impact. Drawing on longstanding experience
 of staff with publication track records, the Unit has facilitated internal peer review, mentoring and
 writing workshops/retreats. In this REF cycle, the Unit published 519 peer-reviewed journal articles
 (~17 per FTE) and 320 non-journal outputs (e.g., theses, conference proceedings and book
 chapters), including outputs in Nature Communications, Nature Neuroscience, Science
 Translational Medicine, Science Signalling, and Diabetic Medicine. Our outputs have generated
 press releases, training opportunities for health care staff, policy changes, Faculty of 1000
 recommendations, and prizes. For example, Singer’s Journal of Neuroscience article on rodent
 addiction-like behaviour led to the Matilda White Riley Behavioural and Social Sciences Paper
 Award (National Institutes of Health).


 1.3.4 Maximising impact
 The Unit keenly supports the development of impactful research across the breadth of its activity.
 The Panel includes impact (Lucassen, Heath) and research and engagement (Boyle, Crea,
 McMullan) leads who work with colleagues to facilitate the development of strategic partnerships
 (e.g., with charities and clinicians), targeted impact planning and delivery (e.g., knowledge
 exchange events with practitioners and user groups) and dissemination. The Panel also works
 with staff to develop plans for integrating impact metric collection, such as surveys, feedback forms
 and focus groups, into their routine research operations (see Section 1.4). Beyond the input of the



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Panel, communications staff based in the STEM and WELS Faculties support colleagues with
 dissemination via media and public engagement events (see Sections 3 and 4).


 The three submitted impact cases (Figure 1) provide examples whereby the Panel facilitated the
 design, delivery, and support of impact activities in the context of longstanding academic research
 projects. The impact potential of these research programmes was recognised at an early stage in
 the REF cycle via an in-depth Strategy Panel review. Engagement with the Panel led to the
 attribution of financial and human resources, and the development of action plans for each case.
 For example, Roth developed interactions with clinical practitioners and expanded her
 engagement with the autism support charity sector; Oates, in addition to sharing his mental health
 assessment tools with clinical colleagues, began to explore how these tools impacted clinical
 practice and developed an online community of practice to support more effective implementation;
 Lloyd, in addition to disseminating guidance on appropriate language for clinical interactions,
 engaged closely with practitioners and service users to determine the extent to which the
 recommended changes improved interaction and satisfaction.


 The Unit has established a forward-looking strategy for impact development. For example, through
 discussions with the Panel, Crea has established an impact workflow that is projected into the
 next REF cycle for his research investigating incurable prostate cancer. Impact activities for this
 project to date include new clinical guidelines in association with oncologists, a collaboration with
 a commercial partner (Volition) to develop a novel blood-screening assay for prostatic
 malignancies, and an OU-hosted workshop involving both cancer researchers and oncologists.


 The OU’s Business Development Office facilitates interactions with industry and third parties, and
 innovation vouchers for £10,000 can be obtained to organise networking events targeted at
 specific businesses. These interactions are assisted by the Unit’s Enterprise Lead (McMullan).


 1.3.5 Extending interdisciplinary collaborations
 The interdisciplinary ethos within the Unit has resulted in new areas of activity. For example, a
 project investigating human disgust, a topic of major interest during the pandemic in the context
 of understanding motivators for modifications to human social behaviours. This involved
 McMullan (a molecular geneticist) working with Heath (a behavioural neuroscientist) to develop
 a bidirectional translational pipeline between humans and a nematode model that can identify the
 genetic variants that modulate disgust and the associated behaviours in humans. The Unit has
 strategically used PhD studentships to facilitate novel interdisciplinary research between its
 members. For example, a PhD project between Lloyd (WELS) and Rostron (STEM) investigated
 the difficulties individuals experience in living well with type 2 diabetes. The Unit has also used
 PhD studentships and pilot funding to extend interdisciplinary research across the OU campus.


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 An example is a PhD studentship examining the neuronal basis of chronic organophosphate-
 induced neuropsychiatric disorder in lab-based models and humans with supervisors in both
 STEM (McMullan) and the Faculty of Arts & Social Sciences. Of the 78 outputs selected for
 REF2021 submission, 21 (~27%) are co-authored by two or more staff from this Unit or another
 OU UOA, demonstrating our commitment to collaborative research.


 Enhancement of interdisciplinary research was also realised through 13 permanent staff
 appointments that both strengthen and broaden the Unit’s research base. For example, Wallace,
 a health psychologist who serves on the Health Services and Development Research NIHR
 Funding Review Committee, has brought research expertise in health behaviour interventions and
 a wealth of experience in bidding for health project funding. Crea, a medical doctor, has
 strengthened the Unit’s cancer research grouping and understanding of clinical practices in
 oncology. Since arriving, Crea has established a collaboration with the Surrey Cancer Research
 Institute examining novel long non-coding RNAs as diagnostic prostate cancer biomarkers.


 1.3.6 Developing international research links
 The Unit has focussed on developing international links through conferences, networking and
 facilitating introductions to external stakeholders via OU units such as the Business Development
 Unit (BDU) and the International Development Office. Unit staff can apply for funding that provides
 opportunities to work alongside these enterprises, and thereby promote international delivery of
 research outcomes. Examples are:
    •   The free online course ‘Mental Health: Resources for Community Health Workers’,
        developed in association with the BDU. This guide derived from long-standing autism and
        mental health research expertise within the Unit (Roth). The Unit and BDU worked in
        tandem to promote its dissemination to international health workers.
    •   An interdisciplinary collaboration with the University of Guyana identified local factors
        promoting community mental health resilience and sustainable improvements in Guyana
        (Mitchell).
    •   Work in Kenya, Uganda, Ethiopia, and Tanzania funded by an Academy of Sciences
        Global Challenges in Research networking grant that brought together OU and
        international bodies, including the African Mental Health Research Foundation (Lloyd).
    •   Translation and cultural adaptation of perinatal mental health assessment tools for use in
        countries including Hungary, Russia, Belgium, and Australia (Oates).
    •   Development of educational materials that address the stigma surrounding diabetes and
        depression in rural communities of Kenya (Lloyd).
    •   Partnership in an EU-funded programme in Hungary, based on the British Sure Start
        model, establishing local centres for disadvantaged and impoverished children and their
        families (Oates).

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     •   Membership of a 14 nation, multi-continent consortium of research centres and hospitals,
         funded by the Association of Improvement of Mental Health Programmes (Lloyd).


 1.3.7 Enhanced post-graduate researcher (PGR) recruitment and training
 In addition to Faculty-awarded studentships (Section 2.4), the Unit has participated in several
 external partnerships and collaborations that have promoted PGR recruitment and supervisory
 roles, including:
     •   Membership of the Horizon 2020 International Training Network (BtRAIN), wherein PGRs
         have a host institution but can visit participating HEIs/commercial organisations for training
         secondments (1 male).
     •   Agreement with AstraZeneca initiated in 2019 enabling their staff to register for a part-time
         OU PhD whilst in post, with Unit staff providing supervision (3 female / 2 male, to date).
     •   Membership of the ESRC Grand Union Doctoral Training Partnership, in collaboration with
         Oxford and Brunel Universities, providing funding for PGRs within the Society and
         Wellbeing Pathway since 2017 (5 female / 1 male, to date).
     •   The Unit’s PGR cohort was enhanced via part-funding from external sources (e.g., NHS,
         MRC, other HEIs) matched by the OU to provide full studentships (7 students since 2014).


 The OU’s proactive approach to flexible part-time PhD studies has enabled the Unit to support
 PGR career development for individuals both within and outside the University. For example,
 Bootman and Romero supervised a part-time PGR based in the Department of Pathology, Oxford
 University, who dovetailed her PhD research with her research assistant job. Similarly, one of the
 Unit’s lab managers is also a part-time PGR, supervised by Taylor.


 1.4 Future Strategic Aims for Research and Impact strategy
 The Unit will continue to support and expand our broad interdisciplinary expertise to facilitate
 understanding of, and develop agile solutions for, the challenge of improving societal health and
 wellbeing, and implement them in sustainable modes through close engagements with key
 stakeholders. The Unit is committed to increasing its focus on interdisciplinarity to optimise its
 pipeline of ‘bench to bedside and beyond’ research. Furthermore, the Unit continues to strengthen
 links with clinical providers such as MKUH, with whom we are negotiating a memorandum of
 understanding around sharing research data and training. The Unit’s strategic plans are bi-
 annually reviewed and discussed with senior research managers to maintain coherence with
 University strategy.


 The Unit’s future research and impact strategies are specifically focussed on the following aims:




                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Responding to unmet health and wellbeing needs in national and international contexts
        through proactive horizon scanning, external engagement, and an agile approach to
        assembling interdisciplinary and collaborative teams.
    •   Increasing translation of our fundamental biomedical science and health research into
        impactful outcomes.
    •   Ensuring a sustainable research environment through grant bidding and commercial
        interactions.
    •   Enabling Unit staff to engage in activities that facilitate impact and deliver societal change.
    •   Recruiting, training and mentoring PGRs and ECRs, along with development opportunities
        for existing staff.


 1.5. Open research environment and supporting research integrity
 Unit staff and PGRs uphold the OU’s institutional open access (OA) and research integrity policies.
 All outputs are deposited in compliance with Research England’s instructions on our institutional
 OA repositories: ORO for outputs and ORDO for data (see REF5a). ORO entries are automatically
 synchronised with researchers’ ORCID accounts. Unit staff annually update Researchfish entries
 with the outcomes of UKRI-funded projects and are encouraged to publish in OA and open review
 journals (support is given for publication costs). Researchers deposit research data in international
 public repositories such as Gene Expression Omnibus for biomedical data and the UK data archive
 for social, economic and population research. Many aspects of the Unit’s research have generated
 free resources on the OU’s OpenLearn platform (examples in Section 4).


 The Unit’s researchers apply a range of statistical tools (e.g., power calculations) for experimental
 design to establish the optimal number of participants in animal/human studies and maximise
 reproducibility. Key studies or reviews, including systematic reviews and randomised controlled
 trials (RCTs), register their protocols initially in registries such as Prospero, the International
 Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews. Research protocols in clinical trials and major
 intervention studies are registered in a public database prior to commencement (e.g., an NIHR
 registry if NIHR funded).


 The OU Human Research Ethics Committee (HREC) provides ethical review of planned and
 ongoing studies (Banks is Deputy Chair). It leads research integrity and ethics training workshops
 for staff at all career stages and has issued guidance to academics on adapting research to fit
 within COVID-19 restrictions. Studies relating to patients or service users are submitted to the
 Health Research Authority where required. Academics adhere to the requirements of relevant
 professional and ethical codes of conduct drawn up by professional bodies (e.g., Nursing and
 Midwifery Council; for Unit researchers studying nursing practice). The UK Policy Framework for



                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Health and Social Care Research, published by the NHS, has been adopted as a more general
 framework for the Unit’s health and social research.


 The Unit, and the wider University, benefits from Oates who has national and international
 expertise in research ethics. He is a member of the British Psychological Society (BPS) Ethics
 Committee and Chair of the working party for the BPS Code of Human Research Ethics. Unit staff
 follow the guidelines provided by the international Declaration on Research Assessment,
 recognising the need to improve how the outputs of scholarly research are evaluated.


 OU staff complete compulsory training on data collection, and GDPR. Research projects involving
 personal data collection are reviewed by the institutional data protection team to ensure GDPR
 compliance. Personnel who conduct research with animals are trained and licenced as required
 by the UK Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act and require approval by the OU’s Animal Welfare
 Ethical Review Body, which comprises stakeholders and independent participants from within and
 outside the University.

 2. People
 2.1 Unit staffing
 The Unit cohort submitted to REF2021 encompasses 32 researchers (31.2 FTE):


                           Staff Grade                      Gender Balance


                            Professor                       2 female / 3 male


                     Senior Lecturer/Reader                 6 female / 7 male


                            Lecturer                10 female / 4 male (inclusive of 5
                                                          ECR & 8 in first post)


 The Unit appointed 12 new lecturers (7 female / 5 male) and a professor (female) in the
 assessment period. Of these, one was an OU-funded research fellow (Rietdorf), and another
 joined the OU with a Wellcome Trust Fellowship (McMullan); both were appointed to lectureships
 via open recruitment processes. The characteristics of the Unit’s staff are:




                                                                                          Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                              Number                      %
                     Full time                   42                       93
                     Part time                    3                        7


                      Female                     26                       58
                         Male                    19                       42


                         UK                      35                       78
                    European                      7                       15
                       Other                      3                        7


                       White                     40                       89
                      BAME                        4                        9
                   Not declared                   1                        2


               Declared disability                2                        4


                    Age range:
                      25 - 34                     4                        9
                      35 - 44                    19                       42
                      45 - 54                    12                       26
                      55 - 64                     7                       16
                      65 - 74                     3                        7
 Note: this table includes details of all staff (in post, retired or relocated) whose outputs were
 considered for submission.


 2.2 Staffing strategy
 Academic appointments within the Unit are made to support both teaching and research needs,
 with all staff expected to contribute to curriculum delivery and development. Fit with Unit research
 strategy is strongly considered. In particular, the Unit assesses applicants’ potential to integrate
 within current research themes and enhance outputs, income, and impact. Whilst the Unit’s
 staffing strategy seeks to sustain key research strengths, appointments are also made to develop
 new strategic research areas. Examples include Wimalarathna, an epidemiologist who has
 increased the Unit’s expertise in infectious diseases; Rigas, who has contributed to the Unit’s
 increasing focus on cancer bioinformatics; Ryan, a registered nurse exploring the impact of social
 networks and social media in healthcare and healthcare education.




                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.3 Staff development
 The Unit supports staff working towards academic promotion via pathways involving research and
 knowledge exchange. Since REF2014 fourteen Unit staff have been promoted to senior lecturer
 (4 male / 10 female) and five to professor (1 male / 4 female). OU Faculties have mechanisms to
 recognise and reward staff members for sustaining research excellence and/or achieving impact,
 including commendations and monetary awards. At University level, there are competitive annual
 OU Research Excellence Awards. Four Unit staff have won OU Research Excellence Awards in
 this assessment cycle.


 We work collaboratively with the HWSRA and the wider University to provide an annual suite of
 training activities. In addition, all staff receive individual mentoring provided by more experienced
 staff in the Unit and their School to develop research plans. Staff at all career stages can seek
 advice   on   aspects    of   academic    activity   including   bidding,   horizon   scanning,   and
 innovation/engagement via the OU’s Research and Enterprise Development Team and their
 relevant Faculty and School.


 All staff from post-doctoral to professorial levels have an annual appraisal involving discussion
 with a senior colleague to reflect on the previous year’s research, teaching and scholarship
 activities, and to set achievable and inspiring goals for the forthcoming year. Staff work with their
 appraiser to identify training needs and opportunities that will support their development. Mid-year
 reviews identify challenges in meeting those goals and enable working plans to be adjusted.


 Nursing staff can undertake doctorates (PhD or a professional doctorate) to facilitate their research
 career development. Study at this level enables these practitioner-researchers to marry their
 professional practice and research knowledge/skills and use them as the basis for more effectively
 informing professional education and healthcare improvement.


 Research and technical support staff within the Unit can work towards professional qualifications
 including Science Council Registration, the NEBOSH Certificate in Occupational Health & Safety,
 and the Biosafety Practitioners Certificate, thereby furthering their professional contributions to
 research standards.


 2.3.1 ECR career development
 Both the Unit and the University provide ECR training and development opportunities, including in
 research methods, bidding for funding, and peer reviewing. The Unit’s staff benefit from mentoring
 schemes whereby experienced academics support others to develop research and scholarship
 plans, which are supported by appropriate workload allocation. For example, Lopez-Cruz (ECR



                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Lecturer) was mentored by Heath (Senior Lecturer) in the preparation of her first independent
 grant application: a successful bid to the Royal Society.


 The research groups underpin ECR development within the Unit. For example, Vasiliadou and
 Johnson were both appointed to their first lectureships and independent research positions in
 2020, but due to the pandemic neither could initiate lab-based research. Both are active members
 of Unit research groups and have been supported in drafting manuscripts and in preparing early
 career research grant applications via internal peer review and detailed discussions with
 colleagues that have relevant expertise.


 All new academics undergo a probationary period (up to 4 years) while their research and teaching
 progress is monitored, and benefit from protected time for research and personal development.
 ECRs are prioritised for start-up funds and to join PGR supervisory teams. A buddy system exists
 to provide inexperienced researchers with the opportunity to join appropriate on-going research
 projects to develop their skills in project management and research leadership. Post-doctoral
 researchers and research fellows are fully integrated members of one or more of the Unit’s
 research groups, which provide support for research methods, publications, and bidding. The
 University provides broadcast- and social-media training to staff to support the development of
 relevant skills and to maximise the reach of research and impact activities.


 2.4. Postgraduate Research Students (PGRs)
 In this REF cycle, the Unit has registered 48 PGRs, with 31 graduating to date:
                                              Number                     %
                     Full time                   36                      75
                     Part time                   12                      25


                      Female                     26                      54
                       Male                      22                      46


                        UK                       32                      67
                    European                     14                      29
                       Other                      2                       4


                      White                      37                      77
                      BAME                       11                      23


               Declared disability                2                       4



                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Note: these data relate to PGRs where Unit staff are lead supervisor. Unit staff have also co-
 supervised >25 PGRs with members of other OU UOAs and external HEIs.


 Following REF2014, the OU awarded funding for 10 PhD studentships to the Unit, which assisted
 newly appointed lecturers to develop their research portfolios, as well as support for
 interdisciplinary collaborations between Unit staff. In addition, the Unit has benefitted from the
 annual allocation of 2 internally funded studentships since 2015.


 The Unit has also registered an additional 11 PGRs who are either self- or employer-funded (e.g.,
 the AstraZeneca PGRs noted in Section 1.3.6). The industry funded PGRs (and in some cases
 self-funded students) conduct their studies on a part-time basis in their workplace, with their
 employer’s support.


 2.4.1 PGR recruitment
 Recruitment of PGRs is undertaken as a competitive process with positions advertised on the OU
 and external websites (e.g., findaphd.co.uk). An Open Day is held each October, providing
 potential applicants with information and support on PGR study. Initially, students are registered
 for an MPhil. To progress to PhD registration, students produce a written report of their research
 in the style of a mini-thesis and undergo a viva voce examination with two independent academics
 at the end of their first year. If progress is not satisfactory, remedial mechanisms (e.g., detailed
 plan with increased supervisory contact and meetings) are instigated, and another progress
 assessment occurs at an agreed time. If a student is unable to progress, or they decide to leave,
 they can submit their research for an MPhil degree.


 2.4.2 Training
 Following registration, students complete a detailed skills audit based on the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework. Students use this initial audit as the basis of training needs discussions
 with their supervisory team to develop a bespoke training plan, incorporating a timetable for
 engagement with Unit- and University-provided training activities. This audit forms a ‘live’
 document representing training and development throughout the studentship and is biannually
 reviewed. All new students are required to participate in induction training workshops on lab
 orientation, safety, research integrity and ethics before starting their research.


 Students submit a biannual Progress Monitoring Report that is scrutinised by the postgraduate
 director within their School, their Faculty, and the Graduate School. Within this report students
 reflect on the progress they have made, the skills they have acquired, and their future work and
 training plans. Students and supervisory teams both contribute to the report and it forms an agreed


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 statement of progress and plan of action. These reports allow timely intervention if the student
 shows signs of a lack of progress. If needed, additional training, equipment , or the addition of
 another supervisor can be arranged. Where possible, supportive interventions are put in place at
 the inception of a student’s research. However, the Unit is responsive to issues arising during a
 studentship, and ensuring students are appropriately supported to succeed is a priority.


 Students give presentations as part of a regular research seminar series. This develops
 presentation skills, facilitates practice in responding to questions and provides an opportunity to
 receive feedback from independent academics. Typically, students will give 2 or 3 presentations
 per year in the series. ‘Skills Seminars’ are also offered whereby Unit academics provide training
 and guidance on matters including statistics and experimental design, use of software packages,
 scientific publishing, manuscript preparation and reviewing and grant application practices. The
 Unit supports an annual Postgraduate Research Day, including a Q&A on post-doctoral career
 options where people from different career backgrounds external to the OU are invited and provide
 insights into various sectors and roles. The Unit also supports the University’s Introduction to
 Teaching Scheme, whereby PGRs can gain teaching experience, with mentoring from academics,
 for example by participating in filmed labcasts, or in lab schools for OU undergraduate students,
 by working on OU courses, or by mentoring visiting students and new PGRs.


 In their final year, students give a formal pre-viva seminar describing their research to the Unit and
 participate in the University-wide ‘Three-minute thesis’ competition. The University also holds an
 annual poster competition open to all PGRs across the campus. PGRs within the Unit have won
 awards in various poster categories including the ‘People’s Choice’ category for public
 understanding of science. Unit PGRs have also won prestigious external awards and invitations
 to speak. For example, a student supervised by Taylor won an award from the Society for
 Reproduction and Fertility leading to an international exchange with the student giving a lecture at
 the Society for Reproduction and Fertility Annual UK Conference in 2015, and a repeat lecture in
 Australia. A student supervised by Rietdorf/Bootman won a competitive fellowship from the
 Japanese Society for the Promotion of Science in 2020 to work for 3 months at the University of
 Yamanashi. A student supervised by Romero was invited to speak at the 2018 Gordon Research
 Conference on Barriers of the Brain.


 Support for full-time PGRs includes financial assistance with research-related costs, training via
 external providers if needed, and conference attendance (at least £1,000 per PGRs per year). All
 Unit PGRs since 2014 have found meaningful employment in academic or related non-academic
 fields, with positions including lecturer, research manager, medical writer and many under-taking
 post-doctoral research.



                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.4.3 Supervision and mentors
 Each student has a supervisory team consisting of at least two internal supervisors, selected to
 provide a balance of expertise for the project. Colleagues new to the role are matched with more
 experienced academics. All supervisors are required to complete a training workshop within 12
 months of beginning the role. Supervisory teams can be expanded or changed if additional
 expertise is needed or circumstances change (e.g., supervisory illness or relocation). External
 supervisors can be added to allow the student to benefit from specialist expertise, industrial liaison,
 or additional facilities. Students and their supervisory teams have a minimum of 10 formal
 meetings per year with written minutes being agreed by all parties. Students are allocated third-
 party monitors who are independent of the supervisory team to provide confidential support and
 pastoral care.


 The OU’s Graduate School provides events and resources to support students’ ongoing
 engagement and promote their mental health. In addition, PGRs have access to the free Employee
 Assistance Programme (EAP) (available to both full-time and part-time students), which provides
 proactive ideas for encouraging good physical and mental health, as well as support from a 24-
 hour helpline. Students with additional needs have access to extra support including the
 University’s Mental Health and Disability Processes Adviser.


 Our diverse PGR community is a testament to our inclusive culture and reputation for openness
 and equality and reflects our commitment to investment in capacity building for students with lived
 experience to become the social and healthcare researchers of the future. The quality of the Unit’s
 approach to PGR skills training and wider research environment is evidenced by the results of the
 recent Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES 2019) which awarded the OU first place
 for Research Skills and Research Culture in the Biological Sciences to which the Unit is the major
 contributor.


 2.5 Equality, diversity, inclusivity, and accessibility (EDIA)
 EDIA is central to the OU’s mission to be open to people, places, methods, and ideas, and is core
 to our academic endeavour. An Equality Scheme was introduced in 2018 and since then every
 Faculty has appointed an Equalities Lead who is responsible for an annual Equality Action Plan.
 Both Schools (HWSC and LHCS) that contribute staff to the Unit have dedicated EDIA leads
 (Simons and Loughlin) who proactively ensure that EDIA principles inform and support business
 and practice, including allocation of workload for research, access to facilities, and diversity of all
 panels and committees. Annual institutional staff satisfaction surveys and, more informally,
 discussions at regular School meetings, also provide channels for issues to be identified and
 resolved, and/or best practice shared. HWSC is currently applying for Athena SWAN Bronze.
 LHCS was awarded Bronze in 2016 and has applied for Silver.


                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2.5.1. Recruitment and support of diversity
 Our commitment to EDIA principles begins with staff and PGR recruitment processes which,
 through interview and selection procedures, establish the EDIA commitment of candidates.
 Recruitment panel chairs and members are all required to undertake equality and diversity training
 before they can engage in recruitment activity. Unconscious bias training is being rolled out
 throughout the University.


 Female academics are encouraged to participate in AURORA (Advance HE’s women-only
 leadership programme); supported by central funds and workload allocation. Female colleagues
 in LHCS have quarterly ‘Women in Science’ meetings that discuss issues relevant to their
 research, workload, and career development, and relay redacted minutes of their meetings to
 senior School management on issues arising. WELS hosts ‘Inspiring Women’ seminars.


 2.5.2. Flexible and remote working
 The Unit is open to flexible working requests, whether this be changes to working time or remote
 working. The general expectation is that such requests are granted. Standard policy is to supply
 a computer to each staff member or PGR for home use. This strategy has been effective in the
 extensive homeworking necessitated by the pandemic. In addition, extra contingency leave has
 been offered to support staff with increased caring responsibilities (for example childcare/home
 schooling demands). Even before the pandemic, the Unit supported flexible working arrangements
 to allow for caring duties, religious beliefs and/or other requirements. Remote working has long
 been facilitated, with all Unit meeting rooms equipped with video conferencing allowing off-campus
 attendance. Job adverts/further particulars include a statement that welcomes enquiries about part
 time working. The Unit currently has academics with workloads spanning 0.6 to 1.0 FTE, reflecting
 personal circumstances or the adoption of new roles. Study leave is usually taken during the
 academic year, but requests to carry over (up to 10 days) and consolidate blocks of research time
 can be made. Study leave is also accumulated during maternity and sick leave.


 2.5.3. Career pathways for part-time and fixed-term staff
 Part-time and fixed-term staff are afforded the same rights and privileges, including pro rata
 study/research leave and holiday allocations, and are closely mentored through our research
 groups. They have the same opportunities for promotion and other formal recognition. The
 University’s academic promotions system rewards research, teaching, and knowledge exchange
 equally, and there are robust systems to consider individual circumstances, including part-time
 worker status or maternity leave.




                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We recognise that obtaining research funding with a contract that may be less than 3 years can
 be challenging. Such staff are encouraged to apply as co-investigators to help them to establish
 their research in the Unit and build a case for a permanent contract. The route from fixed-term to
 permanent employment has applied, for example, to Chatterton who was appointed as a fixed-
 term lecturer to support chemistry teaching and was supported in maintaining his research in
 dietary iron availability and drug delivery mechanisms. Chatterton is now permanent staff within
 the Unit and has an active lab and PhD student.


 2.5.4. Support for research
 The Unit has a dedicated research budget to support staff and PGRs. Requests for travel funding
 to research conferences or workshops may include extra costs, for example those incurred due to
 disability or caring responsibilities. To ensure fair allocation, the awarding panels are regularly
 trained in unconscious bias and fair selection. The diversity of staff being put forward for
 promotion, recognition, and new senior roles is regularly monitored. In the case of caring
 responsibilities, temporary or permanent workload reductions are accommodated. Up to 15 days’
 contingency leave per annum is available for cases of sudden and unexpected caring needs (or
 bereavements, etc).


 In the event of long-term absence (e.g., due to sickness), staff and PGRs can use ‘Keeping in
 Touch’ (KIT) days and, following their return, have a ‘return to work’ interview, which ensures that
 all necessary support is in place. The teaching allocation for academic staff is reduced in such
 instances, consistent with Institutional policy. Staff and PGRs also commonly have a phased
 return. Staff health and well-being is paramount, and the Unit seeks to facilitate healthy return to
 work.


 2.5.5 Support for Returning/Disabled Staff
 Staff returning after sick leave (including during the pandemic) are offered a phased return over a
 4-week period, supported by their line manager and, if required, the OU’s occupational health
 team. The Unit is committed to fully supporting disabled staff and those returning to research
 following substantial leave, with arrangements agreed on an individual basis and following the
 OU’s agile working policy. This includes support for equipment and software, office space and
 workload considerations. Individuals also have access to the EAP which offers a range of
 confidential external support.


 2.5.7 Staff wellbeing
 The Unit has undertaken several specific actions to create an inclusive and supportive working
 culture. Organised social activities are inclusive to all staff, post-docs, and PGRs. All Schools have
 regular informal refreshment break times at least once a day, annual away days, and other social


                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 events. Recent events included workshops on “Grief during COVID-19: supporting our colleagues
 to return to work and thrive following loss” and “Handling Challenges in COVID-19 for parents and
 children”. In addition to the EAP, colleagues are supported by Wellbeing Champions. These are
 staff members (academic and non-academic) who provide a range of support to bolster staff
 wellbeing. Unit staff are also supported via monthly contact with their line managers to ensure
 wellbeing.


 Due to the pandemic, the OU campus closed in March 2020 and remained so until a phased return
 programme began in July when individuals could present a business case for permission to work
 on site that was assessed in terms of criticality and safety. Priority was given to time- and resource-
 dependent work, such as that of final year PGRs, who were allowed on site for lab-based work.
 The Unit introduced a range of mitigations to help staff and students cope with these
 circumstances, including:
    •   Provision of IT equipment to enable home working and to maintain PGRs supervision
        continuity.
    •   PGRs and post-docs unable to work or struggling financially were assisted with paid
        consultancy projects aligned with their studies, such as contributing guidance articles on
        COVID-19 and performing survey work.
    •   Staff mental health and wellbeing has been monitored through regular personal calls and
        informal online ‘coffee meetings’.


 2.5.8 Equality and Diversity in the REF submission
 The ten-member A3 Strategy Panel reflects the diversity of the Unit’s staff in terms of gender,
 career experience, and research discipline, and was audited on inception to ensure representation
 of Unit cohort diversity with respect to protected characteristics. All Unit staff involved in REF
 decision making attended mandatory Equality & Diversity workshops led by Advance HE in 2019
 that included:
    •   Equality Legislation
    •   Embedding equality and diversity in REF2021
    •   Unconscious bias (particularly in selecting staff and outputs)
    •   Developing individual and institutional actions and strategies to minimise bias in REF2021
        decision-making.


 The Unit staff submitted to REF2021 were identified as having significant responsibility for
 research and research independence through the University’s REF2021 Code of Practice. Staff
 had opportunities to submit information about personal circumstances that impacted on their ability
 to undertake research during the REF period. All the outputs from every member of the Unit were
 equitably assessed for submission. Each research output was evaluated by at least two Panel

                                                                                                Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 members and two external consultants using published REF guidance. Of the outputs selected for
 submission, 38/78 (49%) were published by female colleagues.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Income
 During this assessment cycle, the Unit has generated £88k income per FTE. The Unit has had
 particular success with charity sector bids (e.g., Wellcome Trust, Autism Speaks, Bardett Trust for
 Nursing, Well Child, Association for the Improvement of Mental Health, The Batten Disease
 Foundation). In addition, the Unit has received funding from Research Councils (EPSRC, BBSRC
 and MRC), as well as EU/UK Government bodies and industry/other. The Unit has implemented
 several strategies to increase both bidding activity and success rates, including:
     •       Enhanced peer mentoring.
     •       Internal peer-review of research grants.
     •       Strategic provision of seed funding for pilot projects.
     •       Focus on interdisciplinarity.
     •       Drawing on HWSRA support (see below).


 An example of enhanced peer mentoring and pilot funding that generated follow-on funding is a
 grant surgery scheme led by Wallace (Professor, who mentored Lucassen; Senior Lecturer) with
 HWSRA pilot funding (~£4,000) for an LGBT+ youth mental health pilot project. This pilot led to a
 successful Medical Research Council (MRC) Public Health Intervention Development Scheme
 application to co-design an online rainbow wellbeing toolkit to promote wellbeing and resilience in
 LGBT+ adolescents. Wallace will continue to mentor Lucassen (first UKRI grant) for the duration
 of the project.


 Examples of funding which evidence the breadth of Unit research activity and funder diversity
 include:
 Crea:
         •      Cancer Research UK (CRUK) Early Detection Grant (Epigenetic enrichment of
                circulating tumour DNA for prostate cancer detection; £100k).
         •      CRUK Drug Discovery Grant (lncRNAs as novel therapeutic targets in neuroendocrine
                prostate cancer; £238k).
 Male and Romero:
         •     EU Innovative Medicines initiative Im2pact consortium partner (Examining 3D hydrogel
               models for transcytosis of drugs, nanocarriers and viral capsids; €9M).
         •     EU PGRs training program (Btrain; £174k).




                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Bootman and Rietdorf:
       •     MRC Crack-it consortium partners (Examining alveolar macrophage function in
             response to particulates; £1M).
 Lucassen:
       •     Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR) e-therapy project partner (Making I-
             SPARX fly in Nunavut; CAN$1,258,424/£700k).
 Mitchell:
       •     British Academy participatory action study (Improving mental health and wellbeing
             within marginalised communities in Guyana; £50k).


 The Unit’s efforts to diversify funding sources have also led to increased commercial partnerships.
 For example, Male and Golding are collaborating with Midatech Ltd on the use of gold
 nanoparticles for drug delivery across the blood-brain barrier and irradiation of cancer cells, with
 Midatech providing a one-year research assistant salary and a PhD studentship (~£250k). This
 collaboration has resulted in 7 peer-reviewed publications so far and a patent covering the use of
 nanoparticles for CNS therapeutic agent delivery with Male as a co-inventor.


 A patented brain endothelial cell line, developed by Romero, has been distributed freely to more
 than 200 research groups worldwide to investigate pathogenic mechanisms of diverse
 neurological conditions including Alzheimer’s disease and multiple sclerosis. This ‘in vitro human
 blood–brain barrier model’ has generated >£225,000 of royalty income in 2014-2018 through
 licences and/or agreements with commercial companies.


 A pan-university Research, Enterprise and Scholarship team facilitates OU bidding strategy. It
 oversees the OU’s bid management system and works closely with Faculty-based research
 management teams, which support the bidding process (e.g., budget preparation, infrastructure
 needs, etc.) and post-award administration and impact development.


 3.2 Infrastructure
 The OU has made significant investment in research during this assessment period, particularly
 in initiatives (e.g., HWSRA) that support collaboration across the University as well as externally.
 The Unit has received £567k from the Faculty to support PGR work, new equipment, conference
 travel and publishing, and £150k from the University to develop impact arising from research.


 The Unit has well-equipped molecular and cell biological laboratories, and an electron microscopy
 suite that supports both biomedical and materials science within the OU and collaborates with
 external users. New equipment obtained in this assessment cycle includes touchscreen chambers
 for behaviour monitoring, a high-throughput multi-colour plate reader, refurbishment of an

                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 electrophysiology suite with new equipment, and a high-speed fluorescence imaging system. The
 Unit has a dedicated animal unit with staff who, working with Taylor, have made significant
 contributions to improvements in animal welfare and the 3Rs.


 The OU supports laboratories through a centralised system. Apart from positions explicitly funded
 through research grants, all laboratory staff are centrally supported and managed. This
 arrangement promotes interdisciplinary collaboration, increases efficiency, and enables technical
 support staff to diversify their expertise. A dedicated Head of Laboratory Facilities oversees
 laboratory operations, and within the Unit, four laboratory managers have responsibility for
 seventeen permanent technical staff and two fixed-term apprentice technicians. All facilities are
 equitably available to staff via web-based booking forms that are monitored by lab managers. The
 effectiveness of our centralised system was proven during the rapid changes required to keep
 laboratories running during the pandemic.


 3.3 Collaborative use of research infrastructure and benefits in kind
 During this assessment period, the Unit has set up an imaging facility to support widefield, confocal
 and super-resolution imaging of living cells and tissues. The imaging facility has been used as a
 demonstration site for companies including Leica and CoolLED, which has led to equipment loans
 or purchases at significant discount. In addition, access to confocal microscopes within the
 imaging facility has been given to researchers at other HEIs (e.g., Anglia Ruskin University). The
 Unit has benefitted from in-kind assistance, including:
     •   Free provision of a novel LED-based fluorescence microscopy illumination system
         (~£10k) by CoolLED Ltd following training of their staff by Bootman.
     •   Banks’ access to early versions of wearable technology via collaboration with Samsung.
     •   Golding’s open access to X-ray irradiation machines at Northampton General Hospital
     •   Assistance with publication charges for collaborative outputs with industrial partners.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research collaborations
 Support mechanisms for research collaboration development are detailed in Sections 1.3 and 3.1.
 Unit staff are supported through the HWSRA as well as funding within Schools and the Unit, and
 have developed high profile research partnerships with national and international colleagues
 including:
    •    Waights: EU-funded PROGRESSIVE PROJECT, which includes academic partners (UK,
         Italy), client organisations (AGE PLATFORM EUROPE, European Health Telematics
         Association (EHTEL), and numerous standardisation committee partners.




                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Heath: NC3Rs CRACK-IT Solution team collaborating with the Universities of Durham, St.
        Andrew’s, Edinburgh and Bristol and an industrial partner (Certain Indexes, Ltd) evaluating
        automated behavioural analysis techniques.
    •   Lucassen: CIHR-funded e-therapy project with York University, the University of British
        Columbia and University of Ottawa in Canada, and the University of Auckland and Massey
        University (New Zealand) as well as First Nations communities in Nunavut.


 Unit staff support the OU’s Affiliated Research Centre (ARC) programme, whereby research
 institutes that do not have degree-awarding powers adopt OU PGR policies and register students
 with the University. The Unit’s staff scrutinise PhD project proposals in their area of expertise,
 student applications, monitoring forms, chair vivas, and conduct regular on-site visits to ensure
 compliance with UK QAA regulations. In this REF cycle, 23 ARCs across 4 continents were
 supported with 355 doctoral degrees awarded.


 4.2 Development of impact
 The Unit’s forward-planning approach to impact development is detailed in Section 1.3, resulting
 in staff routinely mapping impact progression as part of their research programme development.
 The Unit’s approach to generating impactful interactions with users of its research and other
 stakeholders is showcased in the impact cases submitted to REF2021. In addition to the submitted
 impact cases, the Unit’s impactful research includes the following examples:


 Golding has established quarterly research exchange meetings with MKUH, which have led to a
 clinical trial using a fluorescent dye that accumulates in cancerous cells and allows breast cancer
 margin detection during surgery. Similarly, Banks has developed a network centred around
 cardiology at MKUH, which has led to collaborative work on detection of cardiac arrhythmias in
 patients. These efforts have broadened the clinical conduit available to the Unit.


 Crea has developed an extensive collaboration with the biotech company Volition. This began
 with enquiries from the company about products used in Crea’s research programme and has
 developed into a partnership developing a research evidence base for new products in preparation
 for their marketing. Crea’s engagement has led to developments of Volition’s business model and
 an expansion of their product range.


 Through cross-faculty engagement with colleagues interested in mobile health, Banks began
 developing interactions with manufacturers of wearable health monitoring devices to help optimise
 and evaluate the robustness of their measurements.




                                                                                            Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Being at the UK’s principal online HEI, the Unit’s staff have longstanding expertise in developing
 research-informed distance teaching and training materials. For example, McMullan’s research
 expertise in host-pathogen interactions informed a Dangoor-funded online Badged Open Course
 ‘Understanding Antibiotic Resistance’ (2,789 enrolled learners). This led to McMullan participating
 in a project, funded by the Fleming Fund, to provide and test approaches to antimicrobial
 resistance (AMR) education that would change working practices amongst professionals in AMR
 surveillance-related roles in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs).


 Following a pilot project in Bhutan and Ghana, McMullan became the academic director of content
 on a successful bid (£556,916) to the Fleming Fund to develop, deliver and evaluate online
 learning materials that address key knowledge and information gaps across 24 LMICs in Africa
 and Asia. This supported the AMR surveillance capacity building that is critical to tackling the
 global AMR crisis. Working with the Department of Health, subject experts from universities in 4
 countries, and the OU’s International Development Office and Institute of Education, McMullan
 developed a broad, online AMR surveillance learning curriculum for use by people (e.g., clinicians,
 veterinarians, policy makers) working in AMR-relevant roles in the 24 LMICs participating in the
 project.


 4.3 Wider contributions to the economy and society
 Examples of impactful contributions to the economy and society that are not captured in the impact
 case studies include:
    •   Lucassen’s long standing research designing interventions to better meet the needs of
        LGBT+ youth – for example in relation to the SPARX project (www.sparx.org.nz) – which
        has resulted in further international collaboration with researchers in New Zealand, the
        Netherlands, Australia, Canada, as well as the UK. The SPARX intervention is available in
        First Nation languages as well as English, Japanese and Dutch. SPARX has also been
        recommended as an intervention in the latest NICE guidelines for the treatment of child
        and adolescent depression.
    •   Oates led on the development of ‘Early Developmental Support’ - a module in the NHS
        Healthy Child Programme (HCP), funded by Health Education England. He was also a co-
        author of several other modules in the HCP.
    •   Oates’ role as the ethics co-investigator on a project funded by the Lumos Foundation
        producing evidence for the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child Day of General
        Discussion (DGD) on Children’s Rights and Alternative Care.
    •   Crea has engaged with prostate cancer patient support groups in the Milton Keynes,
        Bedfordshire, and West Midlands areas to explain emergent understanding of prostate
        cancer development.



                                                                                            Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Hirst is a scientific advisor to the UK Fragile X Society, providing expertise on questions
        and queries arising from published papers and trial results.
    •   Ryan’s research funded by the Burdett Trust, in collaboration with the University of Derby,
        investigated the concept of e-professionalism in the healthcare professions. This research
        led to two OpenLearn resources: ‘The internet, social media and you’ and ‘A scenario on
        e-professionalism for nurses’.
    •   Unit Staff and PGRs are encouraged to make STEM education presentations in local
        schools and become STEM tutors via the Brilliant Club.


 4.4 Engagement with Diverse Communities
 Consistent with the OU’s societal mission, a fundamental part of the Unit’s ethos is to ensure that
 awareness of our research activity is as broad as possible, and to ensure that the widest range of
 groups and communities can benefit from it. The Unit therefore actively considers all opportunities
 and channels through which to engage with different communities, including the importance of
 appropriate cultural and linguistic adaptation for such interactions. Examples include:
    •   Production of a user-friendly handbook on the Mental Capacity Act and decision-making
        developed with people with dementia, also made available in Urdu and Polish, as part of
        an ESRC-funded research project (Boyle).
    •   Lucassen’s work on the SPARX project which has produced a self-help intervention for
        adolescents with depression and subsequently refined this for under-served populations
        (e.g., LGBT+ youth and First Nations youth in Canada).
    •   Co-production of mental health resources with different communities in Guyana, including
        the Indigenous community of Yupukari; an urban group of women in a domestic violence
        refuge and a rural Indo Guyanese coastal community (Mitchell).
    •   Garcia’s collaboration with health care professionals and bereaved mothers, focused on
        reducing perinatal mortality in Pakistani, Bangladeshi and White British mothers that is
        influencing clinical practice via collaborations with the East of England Clinical Networks.
    •   Unit members have supported 65 engagement activities since 2015, including public
        events such as ‘Soapbox Science’, annual stands at science festivals, ‘Pint of Science’
        presentations, speaking at support groups for patients and families, and articles for The
        Conversation.


 Unit staff have academic advisory roles on numerous media productions resulting from the
 University’s unique 50-year relationship with the BBC, and have generated related freely available
 content on OpenLearn, for example:




                                                                                             Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 IT and media technicians support events such as practitioner workshops, seminars, webinars and
 co-production. Web development staff support project websites and archives (e.g., the ‘Collecting
 positive mental health stories’ site for the ARCLIGHT project on community mental health in
 Guyana). Communications staff assist with stimulating public and policy debate via news items in
 web, print, TV/radio, and social media.


 4.5 Contribution to sustainability
 The Unit has a strong track record of contributions to research discipline sustainability, both
 internally and externally. Within the OU, strategic new appointments, investments in laboratory
 infrastructure and in digital resources support long-term Unit sustainability. Externally, our



                                                                                          Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 researchers contribute to national and international funding panels, committees, and advisory
 boards (see Section 4.6), shaping decisions on evolving research priorities and EDIA initiatives
 that identify and resolve leaks in research career pipelines.


 The Unit’s agile and contemporary research environment is illustrated by its timely and significant
 contribution to the COVID-19 crisis with new research projects, educational materials, and national
 media engagement, which addressed key issues brought to bear by the pandemic. In addition:
    •   Golding initiated a HEIF-funded project involving MKUH and the University of Buckingham
        investigating risk perception of COVID-19 in healthcare workers. This stemmed from
        regular research meetings with MKUH in which it became evident that staff who had
        received a positive antibody test were more likely to ignore social distancing, believing
        themselves to be non-susceptible. The project will inform staff and patient safeguarding.
    •   Romero is developing a SARS-CoV-2 sewage testing system in Milton Keynes.
    •   Unit staff have also helped maintain wider research networks, such as establishing a
        regular webinar series for the European Calcium Society.
    •   Unit staff have also contributed to the provision of hand gel (made at OU and distributed
        locally, including to MKUH) and undertaken lab work at COVID-19 testing sites and
        laboratories.


 4.6 Wider influence and contributions to the research base


 Journal editing, editorial board membership and publication reviewing include:
 European Editor, Health and Social Care in the Community, and Editorial Board member,
 Disability and Society (Boyle); Associate Editor, Diabetic Medicine (Lloyd); Editor, Scientific
 Reports (McMullan); Editorial Board member, Action Research (Mitchell); Editorial Board
 member, Journal of Child Health Care (Simons); Editorial Board member, Journal of Cellular and
 Molecular medicine and Biochim. Biophys. Acta (Bootman); Editorial Board member,
 Athenian Academic Periodical (Vasiliadou); Academic Editor, PLoS One, and Associate Editor,
 Frontiers in Physiology (Johnson); Editorial Board member, Genes and DNA (Hirst).


 Reviewing for journals including: Science Signaling, and eLife (Bootman), International Journal
 of Molecular Sciences (Crea, Bootman, Golding, Johnson), Scientific Reports (Hirst, Heath),
 Journal of Behavioural Medicine (Lucassen, Lloyd), Childhood and Society, and British Journal
 of Developmental Psychology (Oates) International Journal of Pharmaceutics (Chatterton), PLoS
 One (Heath, Johnson, Rietdorf), BMJ Open (Garcia), European Journal of Neuroscience
 (Heath), Diabetes Care (Lloyd), Journal of Psychiatric, and Mental Health Nursing (Mitchell),
 Endocrinology, and British Journal of Nutrition (Taylor); Journal of Pain Research (Simons), BMC
 Pregnancy and Childbirth (Garcia), Journal of Affective Disorders (Lucassen), Journal of


                                                                                            Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Advanced Nursing (Waights), Cancers (Golding), International Journal of Environmental
 research and Public Health (Vasiliadou), British Journal of Pharmacology, and International
 Journal of Cancer (Rietdorf).


 Membership of professional organisations, prestigious bodies, research funding and
 review committees include:
 British Psychological Society (Rostron) Society for Reproduction and Fertility, and Universities
 Federation for Animal Welfare (Taylor); Royal Society of Biology (Hirst, Loughlin); Royal Society
 of Chemistry (Chatterton, Vasiliadou), World Psychiatric Association Comorbidity Working
 Group (Lloyd), British Neuroscience Association (Heath, Banks, Lopez-Cruz); British Society of
 Genomic Medicine and Genetics Society (Hirst), The British Society for Cell Biology and American
 Society for Microbiology (McMullan); European Networks: BtRAIN and IM2PACT (EU
 labs) (Romero); European Centre for Social Welfare Policy and Research (Boyle, expert
 contributor); European Calcium Society (Rietdorf, Bootman); British Society for Nanomedicine
 (Golding); Federation of European Neuroscience Societies and Spanish Society of Psychological
 Biology (Lopez-Cruz), The Physiological Society (Johnson, Bootman), European Society of
 Cardiology Working Group of Cellular Cardiac Electrophysiology (Johnson), British Society for
 Immunology (Male), Genetics Society, British Association for Cancer Research, European
 Association for Cancer Research (Rigas).


 Membership of review committees/application reviewers, including for RCUK grants and charities
 such as the NIHR Health Services and Development Funding Committee (Wallace); The
 Neurological Foundation (Heath); The Health Research Council of New Zealand (Lucassen);
 Diabetes UK (Lloyd); Prostate Cancer UK (Crea); King’s Health Partners/Guy’s and St Thomas’
 Charity Multiple Long-Term Conditions Challenge Fund (Lucassen); the Government of Spain’s
 National Plan for Drugs of Abuse (Lopez-Cruz); UNESCO and Newton Fund (Banks); NIHR
 Global Research Fund (Lloyd); The Royal Society Newton Award (Male); Member of the Society
 for Reproduction and Fertility Education & Grants sub-committee (Taylor) and the Economic and
 Social Research Council (Boyle).


 Selected keynotes and invited lectures include:
 The Second Digital Child Mental Health Conference, Barcelona, (Lucassen); The World Congress
 of Psychiatry, Lisbon, (Lloyd); The British Association of Psychopharmacology (BAP) Annual
 Conference, Manchester, (Heath); The International Conference on Cerebral Vascular Biology,
 Paris, (Romero); The International Symposium ‘Atomic Cluster Collisions’, Canterbury,(Golding);
 UK-China Mini-Symposium on Electrospinning for Drug Delivery (Chatterton); The International
 Conference on Palliative Care, Belfast, NI (Banks); The Horizon 2020, ECMED International
 training network workshop, Marseille, France (Romero); The Diabetes UK Annual Professional


                                                                                          Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Conference (Lloyd); the Technology in Psychiatry conference (Lucassen); European
 Behavioural Pharmacology Biennial Meeting 2019, Braga, (Lopez-Cruz); Invited Faculty and
 speaker - European Society of Cardiology Annual Meeting 2020 (Johnson); 2016 Conference of
 Nursing Homes Ireland Association (Boyle); European Society of Paediatric Immunology, and
 The Peruvian Society for Immunology, Lima (Male).


 Unit staff have won the Knight’s Cross Order of Merit of the Republic of Hungary (Oates), the
 Herald Lifetime Achievement Award (Roth), and the Matilda White Riley Behavioural and Social
 Sciences Paper Award (Singer).


 The Unit has hosted conferences such as an ECR-focused symposium on the blood-brain barrier
 in 2019 (Romero) and an annual cellular signalling conference (Rietdorf, Bootman). Unit staff
 hold honorary academic posts and maintain collaborations at other universities, for example
 the University of Auckland, (Lucassen), Institute of Cancer Research and Barts Cancer Centre,
 London (Crea), Oxford University (Wimalarathna), University of Pittsburgh (Lloyd) and the New
 University of Lisbon (Golding).




                                                                                       Page 28
