Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:         Leeds Beckett University

 Unit of Assessment: 23 Education

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview
 The Carnegie School of Education at Leeds Beckett University (LBU) dates from 1907 when it
 was a teacher training college for women. Rooted within the regional community and serving a
 strong partnership of schools, colleges and community groups across the region, the School has
 a long-standing reputation for delivering high quality training and research that arises from the
 needs of teachers, senior leaders and children. This history underwrites our overarching
 research mission and intellectual commitment: ‘to improve the life chances of children and young
 people’.

 The School was comprised of two academic departments at the time of the REF census (the
 department of Languages has since joined us): Teacher Education and Interdisciplinary Studies.
 In the past, the School had prioritised teacher training above research, which resulted in few
 active researchers post-REF2014, with no articulated impact strategy remaining and no culture
 of bidding for external funding. Following a university restructure in 2016 that moved the School
 from being part of a Faculty to an independent unit, the newly appointed Dean – Professor
 Damien Page – co-created a research strategy founded upon the pillars of social justice and
 community engagement, which reflects our overriding mission. The university restructure also
 ensured that Schools became highly autonomous and the School of Education fully embraced
 this, moving quickly to seize and create new opportunities.

 Research strategy
 Working with all staff and with partner schools, colleges and community groups, our new
 research strategy was launched in 2016 with the following aims:

    1. To create a culture of research richness that would ensure all staff were active in
       research at ever-increasing levels of quality.
    2. To ensure all academic staff published every year, captured in targets in their annual
       Performance and Development Review.
    3. To meet the multiple needs of the education community.
    4. To be founded upon principles of social justice.
    5. To differentiate the School through researching the ‘pernicious problems’ embedded
       within the education system.

 This strategy has led to a rapid transformation of research in the School. For example, there has
 been a significant increase in the number of independent researchers in the School – from two in
 2015 to 16 in this submission – which was achieved through a targeted hiring strategy, with
 three new Professorial posts and three Readers appointed. Moreover, the quality and number of
 outputs has significantly increased as has our research income.

 Research impact strategy
 At the heart of this strategy was the need to implement a research impact strategy. The leaders
 of the 2014 case studies left shortly after the REF and so we needed to create impact quickly
 through three primary actions:

    1. To create new collaborations between researchers and practitioners
    2. To identify impact at the beginning of all new projects to be monitored by the Professors
       within the School
    3. To create enterprise opportunities from all research by involving the School’s Knowledge
       Transfer Team in all research planning



                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Central to this impact strategy was the establishment of four new Research and Practice
 Centres: (i) the Centre for Race, Education and Decoloniality; (ii) the Centre for LGBTQ+
 Inclusion in Education; (iii) CollectivEd, The Centre for Mentoring, Coaching and Professional
 Learning, and; (iv) The Centre of Excellence for Mental Health in Schools. Rather than emulating
 traditional discipline-focused research centres, these centres promote collaborative research,
 engaging and co-producing with professionals from UK and international schools, colleges and
 other non-academic settings such as charities and social enterprises to maximise impact. As
 well as organising academic colleagues within the School, each centre recruits Professional
 Associates from the wider education sector who work with academics on joint research projects
 and evaluations. This collaborative research is captured within working paper series that are
 written by practitioners, edited by the Director of each centre and disseminated to schools,
 colleges and early years settings. In the last three years, we have published 274 working papers
 across the Centres, which are freely available on our website and are central to our impact
 strategy. As well as Professional Associates, the Centres attract internationally leading scholars
 as Visiting Professors, such as Anderson J. Franklin from Boston College and Andre Keet of
 Nelson Mandela University.

 As part of our commitment to social justice and our mission ‘to improve the life chances of
 children and young people’, and to further develop the impact of our research, we have our Story
 Makers Company, a hybrid unit of academics focused on creativity, English and drama with
 performing arts practitioners in the community, collaboratively working with schools to develop
 drama and creativity in the curriculum. To create additional impact, we created the Story Makers
 Press, a children’s literature publishing unit that specialises in themes largely ignored by
 mainstream publishers such as race, trans, refugees and other issues of social justice and
 inclusion. Each book is accompanied by an Explorer’s Guide which is underpinned by research
 from academics in the Company and which supports teachers and other practitioners in how to
 use the books to creatively explore the issues they cover (see the Story Makers Impact Case
 Study for more details).

 Outcomes
 The success of the School’s research and enterprise strategy is most evident in the rapid
 increase in external income. In this period, we have increased gross research income from zero
 in 2015/16, the year before the new research strategy and structure was implemented, to £577k
 in 19/20 and £1.04 million in 20/21 (to January 21). This also represents a far greater
 diversification of income streams, from ERAMUS+ to ESRC awards and from large international
 collaborative projects to small employer-engagement evaluations. This increase in funding was
 achieved firstly through the integration of formal research leadership into the Dean’s
 responsibility to ensure research-richness in every aspect of the School’s work. Second, we
 recruited talented academics with a history of success in external bidding such as Dr Beaton
 who has recently been promoted to Professor. Third, we have prioritised bidding within our
 Performance and Development Reviews – here, all independent researchers are given targets
 and support for external bidding. Fourth, we have created a discrete Knowledge Transfer Team
 who work with academics to translate research into Continuing Professional Development
 Provision and bespoke projects. Finally, as part of our capacity building aim, at the beginning of
 the strategy we employed an external consultant to work with new colleagues to develop their
 understanding of the practicalities of bidding. With increasing success in winning bids, we now
 maintain a culture of bidding-mentoring, fund-holders mentoring and co-writing all new bids as
 well as bespoke training sessions and a School Review Group.

 Future plans
 Having built a research-rich culture from a low starting base, we now wish to build upon our
 recent successes and capitalise upon the momentum we have created and so our future
 research and enterprise plans are based upon five priority areas:

    1. To nurture additional impact case studies that are within the early stages of development.
       These include coaching and mentoring within education, inclusive physical education and
       race and education. At the heart of this will be the increase in our consultancy and

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         Continuing Professional Development (CPD) for education settings based around these
         key areas.
    2.   To support our academic staff who were recruited straight from practice to complete their
         doctorates in a timely manner and proceed towards independent researcher status.
    3.   To further develop our international partnerships in research and enterprise and attract
         more international doctoral students.
    4.   To develop our experimental work with virtual and augmented reality and become a
         world leading centre for its application to education settings.
    5.   To further increase and diversify our external income, especially targeting income from
         research councils.

 Central to our future plans is the Research Leadership Team (RLT) created in June 2020,
 chaired by the Dean and including all senior research and enterprise colleagues. The RLT is
 responsible for setting and monitoring the research and enterprise strategy for the School.

 Section 2. People

 To achieve our research aim to create a culture of research richness, the School required new
 staff and we began this process by employing three new Professors in 2017. All appointments
 were aimed at building our research strength in areas of social justice, inclusion and teacher
 development and to galvanise research leadership, embedding research richness within the
 School. As part of this professorial cohort, Shirley Anne Tate (previously of University of Leeds)
 became the inaugural chair of Race and Education, a post now held by Vini Lander (previously
 of Roehampton); Rachel Lofthouse (previously of Newcastle) became chair of Teacher
 Education; Jonathan Glazzard (previously of Leeds Trinity) became chair of Inclusive Education.
 In addition, we recruited one new Reader to lead our postgraduate research provision (Shona
 Hunter, University of Leeds) and promoted Michalis Kakos to Reader and Mhairi Beaton to
 Reader then Professor in March 21.

 In terms of staff development, and in-line with our strategic aim ‘to create a culture of research
 richness within the School’, we have introduced new initiatives to provide research support to
 staff where it is most required. The underpinning logic is that the enhancement of a research
 community and ethos is best supported via a scheme of mutually beneficial staff development
 with the positive effects of increased research activity and quality. In this light, staff development
 takes place through the following mechanisms:

        Improved research leadership and mentoring through the appointment of new professors
         and readers.
        An open-door research surgery implemented by the Dean of School which functions as a
         drop-in clinic to discuss research matters generally and to assist with publishing and
         research income generation specifically.
        Career development workshops for early career colleagues that focus on the
         practicalities of research such as planning projects, external bidding and publishing
         strategies.
        The establishment of a Research Support Fund to support conference attendance,
         development and seed funding (£67k in 2020/21).
        Early career academics awarded dedicated QR funds as seed-funding for research
         projects (in 2019/20, our three ECRs received £3300 each to achieve research project
         targets agreed by the Research Leadership Team).
        The introduction of a fortnightly research and continuing professional development
         seminar series with contributions from staff, doctoral candidates and invited external
         speakers.
        The establishment of a School blog (https://www.leedsbeckett.ac.uk/blogs/carnegie-
         education/) to provide early publishing opportunities for early career academics and
         research students.



                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All staff and doctoral candidates within the School also participate in the wide range of
 professional development support available across the University, which is organised centrally,
 including an extensive range of research support and development activities provided by the
 Graduate School and Research and Enterprise Office. The university is also committed to the
 principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and supports a
 basic entitlement of 10% of time through its workload allocation model for all academic staff to
 maintain their research scholarly activities. Staff recognised as independent researchers are
 supported with at least 28% of their total deployment time for research activities. All academic
 staff have a clear pathway for career development in the form of promotion evidenced through
 research and by other means and workshops for planning and developing research careers run
 throughout each year. Staff professional development is also a key element of the School’s
 annual Performance and Development Review, with all staff completing a 5 year research plan,
 during which time, staff research needs, and requirements are discussed and addressed with
 targets. Mentoring is provided to all staff as part of the School’s research mentoring strategy,
 which is also aligned with the institution’s Athena Swan action plan and agenda.

 In addition to recruiting experienced independent researchers, we also recruit staff directly from
 partner schools to ensure currency of our teacher education and research. Employed as
 Lecturers, these colleagues begin a doctorate within the School where we have appropriate
 supervision, or in other universities where colleagues are pursuing specialisms not currently
 offered within the School and where we wish to diversify our areas of expertise. All staff
 doctorates – internal or external – are fully funded (we invested in £38,249 in staff doctorates in
 2020-21) and colleagues are given one day per week dedicated to doctoral study as well as two
 weeks doctoral research leave per year. Since REF2014, 11 members of staff from within the
 School have graduated with research degrees with a further five from other Schools within the
 university. With the research culture now more mature, colleagues can be properly developed as
 both researchers and practitioners.

 Research students
 The School of Education boasts a thriving doctoral programme, full and part-time, with both PhD
 and EdD awards, with the total number of research students increasing from 23 in 2014 to 68 in
 2020-21 (63 doctoral, 5 MRes). Doctoral students are supported by supervisory teams including
 a Director of Studies (DoS) who has expertise in the area of study or its methodology and in
 accordance with university regulations. In addition, where additional specialist input is required,
 the School employs external Academic Advisors, an approach also taken where colleagues
 move to other institutions – this approach ensures that research students receive no impediment
 to their doctorate. Research students are full members of the School’s academic community,
 attending and presenting at our seminar series and conferences, sitting on key academic
 committees, and are part of the recruitment of academic staff. In addition, PGRs can access the
 Research and Scholarship Fund to support their research including conference attendance and
 specialist training.

 We have well established procedures to support and monitor students’ progress and timely
 completion. Following initial registration, candidates attend Confirmation of Registration (first
 three months) and, later, annual Confirmation of Progression events where progress is
 established, recorded and monitored by independent panels of academic staff. This rigorous
 process of assessment and support is designed to ensure that all candidates have and maintain
 the ability to succeed at doctoral level and to submit their thesis for examination within the
 registration period. Candidates are required to maintain a current record of training having
 completed an earlier Training Needs Analysis and skills audit. In addition to provision made by
 the School, training is also organised by the Graduate School and provided by academic staff
 from across the University including the Research Training Programme which is mapped against
 the entire student life cycle, from collecting data to viva preparation.

 To further embed PGRs into our academic community, doctoral students are invited to present
 their work within the School’s research seminar series, a highly supportive and collegial
 environment that aims to develop dissemination skills as well as test original contributions.

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Furthermore, doctoral students engage within colloquia in which they engage in scholarly debate
 around our academics’ publications and also participate within our Career Development
 Workshops, with subjects such as writing for publication and the use of social media in
 dissemination. As well as being supported by the Director for Research Degrees (Shona
 Hunter), our doctoral students are also supported by the School’s award-winning Pastoral Team
 who provide a specialist service for students, providing support, advice and guidance on the
 complete range of student needs, from finance to wellbeing. In addition, in 2018 we created a
 Research Student Hub, providing computing, desk space and meeting facilities to all research
 students in the School. Housed in the same building as academic offices, the Hub has facilitated
 greater collaboration between staff and students and is integral in building an inclusive research
 community.

 Our commitment to equality and diversity
 As a School that is founded upon principles of social justice, we take inclusive practice extremely
 seriously. To ensure an inclusive research environment where all colleagues are developed and
 pushed to achieve ever greater quality, we have established an Inclusion Strategy Group to
 provide a collaborative and non-hierarchical approach to equality and diversity within the School.
 This group is chaired by Heather Paul, a highly experienced senior leader from the public sector,
 who is now employed as a Lecturer in Interdisciplinary Studies. As such, our inclusion strategy is
 formed in a free-thinking environment to continually improve our practice, which is then to be
 implemented by senior academics within the School. As evidence of our commitment to equality
 and inclusion, we are proud of the fact that four of our seven Professors and Readers are female
 and one female professor is an academic of colour. Our School Research Strategy is also fully
 informed by the expertise of colleagues within our Centre for Race, Education and Decoloniality
 to ensure our work is as inclusive as possible. At university level, we are Disability Positive
 employers, hold institutional Athena Swan accreditation, have received Stonewall Top 100
 employer status, and are working towards the Race Equality Charter Mark, led by the Dean,
 Damien Page.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 Most of the staff who were entered in REF2014 left after the assessment due to a lack of
 succession planning in its previous incarnation, so the School had to rebuild its income
 generation from an extremely low base. To achieve this aim, the following mechanisms were
 implemented:

    1. Recruiting academics with a track record of winning external funding.
    2. Hiring a professional bid writer who facilitated bidding workshops and worked with
       individual academics on bids.
    3. Deploying hours for bid writing.
    4. Bidding included in Professional Development Reviews for independent researchers.
    5. Co-writing and mentoring between successful bid writers and earlier career academics.
    6. Creating a Knowledge Exchange Team to translate research into a continuing
       professional development portfolio.
    7. Creating our Carnegie Education Evaluation Unit.

 The result of this strategy has been extremely successful. In this REF period, the School has
 increased our awards from zero in 2015/16 to £577k in 19/20 and £1.04 million in 20/21 (to
 January 21). What is most noticeable is the diverse range of external income sources, from
 research councils to individual schools, and from education unions to corporations, as evidenced
 in the following examples.

 International funding
 The School’s research strategy aimed to increase our international profile by recruiting
 academics with experience in building international partnerships and by providing time within
 deployment to write bids, supported by colleagues within the university centrally and from within

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the School. As a result, this strategy has yielded several diversified sources of income
 internationally.

 For example, the School has successfully secured funding for a major international research
 project as part of a consortium with University of Lapland in Finland and Memorial University in
 Canada through the Trans-Atlantic Platform funding scheme. The United Kingdom element of
 the project is funded by the Economic and Social Research Council with the School securing
 €175674 of the total grant of €437892. The project captures our commitment to social justice,
 focusing on the agency and voices of young children in marginalised, indigenous and immigrant
 communities in addition to children with diverse ethnic and cultural backgrounds. The AdVoSt
 project will enhance educators' knowledge of multiple storytelling pedagogies including
 perspectives of land-based learning.

 We have also been successful in a number of EU funding calls including:

       Promoting Inclusion in Society through Education: Addressing Professional Dilemmas
        (PROMISE): 2018-21, €427,461. The PROMISE project is an Erasmus+ KA201 funded
        project. The consortium led by the Carnegie School of Education focuses on how
        educators can be supported to work with increasingly diverse populations within schools
        across Europe.
       Promoting Informed Choices for All Young People (DesignMyFuture): 2019-22,
        €402,552. The consortium led by the School is examining how marginalised youths at
        risk of early school leaving might be supported to make informed choices about post-
        compulsory school destinations. The project is interdisciplinary including the
        development of a gaming app which will be made available for all young people across
        Europe.
       Transitions for All: 2020-2022, €349,060. Working with partners in Ireland, Bulgaria and
        Germany, this project examines transitions to school for children with special educational
        needs, disabilities and those from hard to reach communities.
       Developing educators’ artistic practice in schools: 2020-2022, €446,057 Working with
        strategic partners from Germany, Iceland, Austria, Greece and Italy, this project
        facilitates creative learning opportunities for young people (5 to 16 years) in schools
        through transferring the knowledge of Artist Educators (for example, writers, actors,
        dancers, musicians, visual artists) to a school context. Working with artists in schools in
        these countries, the team will produce research into the benefits of creative learning with
        young people and four open access resources which include Toolkits for teachers, a
        guide for parents and an interactive game for trainee teachers.
       SIRIUS 2.0: 2017-21, €103k. This project focuses on creating a European policy network
        in the education of children and young people with a migrant background, bringing
        together policy makers, practitioners and researchers to identify key issues and
        interventions.

 Our strategic focus on internationalisation of research achieved two early successes around our
 work on race and education. In 2017, the School won £40,738 from the Swedish Research
 Council in a collaborative project with Sodertorn University to study principles and practices of
 deracialisation in Brazil, South Africa, Sweden and the UK. Bringing together a team of
 international experts (with the UK represented by Shirley Tate from the School), to develop a
 joint theoretical and methodological framework on racialisation and deracialisation to identify
 successful interventions and to establish new principles and practices at an international level.
 We also won £48,000 for a Researcher Links international workshop funded by the British
 Council. The workshop was coordinated by Shirley Anne Tate from LBU and Breitner Taveres
 (University of Brasilia and Post-doctoral Fellow in Centre for Race, Education and Decoloniality
 in 2018). It took place at the University of Brasilia from 15th-18th June 2019. The workshop
 focused on racism as a structural inequality that affects social welfare development and civil
 society. Aimed at comparing the effectiveness of current approaches to racial inequality in
 universities, it included Early Career Researchers (17 per country) and established researchers
 from Brazil and the UK (3 per country).

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 While our income capture strategy focuses predominantly on larger funds, we have also pursued
 and won smaller pots where they help to advance the discipline and build the experience of our
 colleagues in working with international partners. In 2019, Tom Van Rossum began working on a
 collaborative project (£6232 retained income) with Nike, the Youth Sport Trust and a group of
 international academic institutions to create a Movement Oriented Games Based Assessment
 (MOGBA) for children aged 8-12 years. This development and measurement tool is to be used
 by teachers and coaches globally within Nike's 'Made to Play' program to better support
 children’s development of fundamental movement skills, helping to improve their wellbeing.
 Further evidence of global engagement is the partnership between CollectivED and Growth
 Coaching International (GCI) who have offices in Australia and the US. GCI (England) now have
 their head office and Managing Consultant (England) based at LBU, the first branch in the UK.
 The partnership supports the development of research-informed coaching in education settings
 through both new CPD provision and research opportunities and the School receives 10% of all
 GCI UK income in addition to 50% of co-delivered programmes.

 UK funding
 As well as targeting international project funding, as a School that takes its civic responsibility
 seriously, we have also increased the number of UK based projects, many of them involving
 high-profile partners. For example, in 2020, Vini Lander successfully tendered for an £82k
 project with the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts (RADA) to lead a project designing their anti-
 racism strategy. Following a detailed paper from students within RADA that raised a need for de-
 colonising the curriculum and providing research-informed anti-racism interventions, Prof Lander
 is conducting research with students, staff and governors to determine the most effective
 interventions to achieve RADA’s aim of becoming an anti-racist institution. In addition, Prof
 Lander has provided anti-racism consultancy to the NHS: with the North London Clinical
 Commissioning Group reaching over 250 participants and in the Yorkshire and Humber
 Postgraduate Deanery reaching over 500 participants.

 In addition to high-profile projects, the School is equally committed to pursuing work that, while
 carrying smaller income amounts, are strategically important to the sector and contribute to the
 research discipline and its impact upon the education sector. For example, the School's
 Knowledge Transfer team won a bid (£4800) from the DfE for Dr Tom van Rossum, Paul Ogilvie
 and Kate Bancroft to work as Subject Matter Experts to co-create training materials to help
 schools deliver the new Relationships, Sex and Health Education (RSHE) curriculum. Tom and
 Paul will provide subject content and ideas of best practice that will shape the 'physical fitness
 and health' and 'healthy eating' modules with Kate focusing on allergies and self-examination
 delivered to primary and secondary schools nationally from September 2020. The training
 materials will guide teachers in how to meet the statutory guidance of the RSHE curriculum,
 teaching children about the benefits and characteristics of living an active and healthy
 lifestyle. Here, we are the only university to be involved in this project, the other participants
 coming from schools and Multi Academy Trusts. There is also our research on the effectiveness
 of headteacher coaching (£2915). The year-long study focused on coaching provided by
 Integrity Coaching and was funded by the National Education Union. It was undertaken by
 Rachel Lofthouse and Ruth Whiteside (CollectivED Research Associate). The research
 highlights the vulnerability that some headteachers feel and was the first of its kind to explore the
 relationship between coaching, wellbeing and leadership effectiveness amongst senior school
 leaders in an English context. The research demonstrates that coaching can provide an effective
 approach to support headteachers’ wellbeing and their capacity to manage the complexity of
 their roles. A final example is from 2016 when Dr Tom Dobson and Lisa Stephenson undertook
 a project sponsored by the UK Literacy Association (£3000) which involved the professional
 development of teachers in a partner school in Bradford to use process drama to improve
 children's writing across the curriculum. The project impacted the creative teaching in the school
 and helped the school to become a Literacy Hub. As a result of this, creative teaching methods
 have been more widely adopted across Bradford.



                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our Carnegie Education Evaluation Unit was established in 2018 and brings together academics
 from across the School to work on evaluation projects within the sector. In its first year, the Unit won
 three evaluation tenders to evaluate three Department of Education Strategic School Improvement
 projects (£120,000). As an example, one was Swaledale Teaching Alliance where the focus was
 metacognition in mathematics. The project pursued a collaborative coaching approach, ran for five
 terms from September 2017 to April 2019 and included 10 primary schools in North Yorkshire, with a
 predominance of Service Children. The evaluation demonstrated the value of collaborative coaching
 as a means of developing teaching expertise and building a network of practitioners to support and
 sustain pedagogic development. Internationally, we were awarded the evaluation of an educational
 programme implemented in 150 Greek schools, supporting school staff in developing interventions
 for educational inclusion of refugee students (€45,000, Oct 2019 – Dec 2022).

 As evidence of our success on supporting early career researchers, Dr Nicole Gridley was part
 of a £350,000 collaborative bid with the University of York and Durham University funded by the
 Educational Endowment Foundation. The project focused on a randomised controlled trial
 evaluation of a one-to-one home visiting programme for parents of children considered 'in need'
 according to the DfE guidance. The purpose is to raise language and literacy skills in young
 children in order to contribute to their school readiness. This is the first independent RCT of this
 programme (ParentChild +) and the findings will contribute to the evidence base for the
 effectiveness of early interventions.

 But as well as bidding for external income, we have also prioritised creating impactful knowledge
 transfer and enterprise streams. The best example of our strategy of translating research into
 impact activity is found in our Centre of Excellence for Mental Health in Schools. Here we have
 created a range of continued professional development provision that is offered to schools
 nationally that has generated £92k since launch in 2017. However, most significant has been our
 School Mental Health Award that ensures schools are using evidence-based approaches that
 align to professional and government guidelines. Using a developmental framework, schools
 evaluate current mental health practices, identify gaps, develop and strengthen these and work
 towards building an emotionally healthier environment. Through this process, schools commit to
 making mental health a strategic priority and developing a positive culture that promotes mental
 wellbeing for everyone. Since 2017, 993 schools (including boarding schools) and further
 education colleges have either completed the award or are working towards it, both nationally
 and internationally and it has generated £307,000 in income. We were also successful in a
 HEFCE Catalyst bid with the University of Portsmouth which explored the factors which
 influenced the mental health of postgraduate research students. Several changes to practice
 were implemented through the project including: mental health training for research supervisors;
 mental health awareness sessions for new postgraduate research students; online mentoring
 groups which were student led; and face to face peer-led student mentoring circles.

 Infrastructure and facilities
 Library and Learning Innovation (LLI) plays a key role in the staff and student experience at the
 University, providing 24/7 access to physical and online resources supporting the research,
 teaching and learning needs of our community. Academic librarians ensure collections meet the
 research needs and staff and research students are able to use them and facilitate access to
 research collections both physically (over 380K books) and online (150K journal titles).

 Leeds Beckett has invested significantly in infrastructure and the School received a new £2m
 Carnegie Teacher Education Building in May 2018. The new two storey research and teaching
 facility comprises a number of spaces which mimic real-life nursery and primary school settings,
 including: a computer and maths classroom; an art and design workshop; a primary education
 science laboratory; a model early years classroom and a secure external play area. All
 classrooms have been designed to model both primary and early-years learning environments
 which will allow teaching students and researchers to investigate the impact of the environment
 on learning, teaching and assessment. The building also provides an environment where
 researchers can work with children from local schools within the model classrooms, facilitating
 an efficient means of data collection.

                                                                                                   Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The new building was also designed to integrate our new research on the use of Immersive,
 Virtual and Augmented Reality (VAR). A project team within the School consisting of academic
 staff and students have developed and created a ‘Virtual Classroom’. The aim of this ground-
 breaking project is to allow our researchers to study participants who experience and interact in
 challenging scenarios in a virtual environment. Utilising our VAR facilities, participants are
 immersed in the virtual classroom, and can experiment with scenarios such as children
 presenting with challenging behaviour. This research will be a prime focus for the School and
 Steve Burton is developing a new team to further develop research in digital pedagogy, which
 will include a research fellow and two Graduate Teaching Assistants. The existing team have
 secured funding for and are currently building a physical Immersive Reality lab, which will be
 used to broaden our existing international, national and regional partnerships, by providing
 pedagogical leadership, guidance, experimentation space, and support in the development of
 pedagogically secure and ethically responsible digital education artefacts and programmes.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 One of the key strands of the School’s research strategy is to promote a collaborative approach
 with external partners that builds capacity within international and UK schools, colleges and
 nurseries. This approach seeks to build partner and stakeholder needs into our research, but
 also to develop research based on the needs of partners and which will be undertaken by the
 teachers within those settings. As part of our strategy, academics gets university support and
 guidance from colleagues throughout the collaborative process. This takes several forms:

 Collaboration via Research and Practice Centres
 Our primary strategy of collaborative research and impact is performed through our Research
 and Practice Centres that build research capacity within external partnerships, but also aim to
 contribute to the research base in race and education, coaching and mentoring, LGBTQ+
 inclusion and mental health in schools.

 First, there is CollectivED, the Centre for coaching, mentoring and professional learning led by
 Prof Lofthouse. CollectivED has contributed to the research environment through innovative,
 research-practice symposia and knowledge exchanges attended by over 400 people. Alongside
 LBU colleagues and doctoral students, the CollectivED advisory board and Fellowship networks
 bring together expertise from HE, FE, schools and freelance and policy contexts. The Fellowship
 includes 80 Fellows at a range of academic and practice career stages based in the UK, Europe,
 North America, Australasia, and South-East Asia. A unique feature of CollectivED Fellowship is
 the development of a sustainable network with Fellows engaging productively across sector,
 national and role boundaries. There are 12 issues and 5 special issues of open-access
 CollectivED working papers, which now encompass over 200 research, practice insight, think-
 pieces and book and conference reviews with contributions from the UK and 15 other countries.

 Second, there is The Centre for LGBTQ+ Inclusion in Education led by Jonathan Glazzard in
 Education, which brings together researchers and practitioners who are united in supporting
 children and young people with non-normative gender identities and sexualities. As a research
 and practice centre, the remit is to provide resources and professional development for
 practitioners and to advance research within this field. The Centre has created an international
 network of researchers who are actively researching within this field and this network provides
 rich opportunities for international research collaboration. The Centre is also part of an
 International Transitions Research Network which was established by Professor Divya Jindal-
 Snape at the University of Dundee. In addition, the Centre has developed a research informed
 framework to support schools and colleges to implement whole institutional approaches to
 LGBTQ+ inclusion. The Centre facilitates face-to-face and online conferences and seminars
 which explore themes relating to LGBTQ+ in educational settings. Finally, the Centre also
 provides consultancy for schools and colleges.



                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Third, there is the Centre for Race, Education and Decoloniality led by Prof Lander and was
 established to undertake research related to race and racism in education. In collaboration with
 academic and educational professionals, the Centre aims to challenge everyday racism and
 structural race inequalities in education through research, evidence-based practice and the
 professional development of pre-service and in-service teachers nationally and internationally.
 The Centre works in partnership with education professionals in all sectors to help develop
 teachers and practitioners to become race equality education activists/advocates and challenge
 racism in all its forms. It achieves this through applying its research to help teachers develop
 anti-racist practices, decolonise the curriculum and develop colleagues’ knowledge and
 understanding of race and racism in education. For example, in 2020 the centre held several
 online discussions to foster collaboration between academics within the Centre and senior
 leaders and teachers nationally. The Centre also works with teachers, children and young
 people to develop teaching resources to tackle racism in schools and society. Within this is
 Shona Hunter’s ‘White Spaces’ Project, a global interdisciplinary collaboration. Leading
 innovation in decolonial approaches to Critical Whiteness Studies, it explores issues of power
 and inequality in multicultural societies. A well-established hub for national and international
 activity its work spans 19 disciplines across social sciences, humanities and even the natural
 sciences. Recent collaborative bid successes include cross hosting with UoL for Fulbright
 Fellowship recipient Shelleen Green (UCLA) and National Swiss Research Foundation Funded
 Doctoral Studentship (2021-24) for G. Rey co-supervised Dr Hunter with University of Lucerne
 Switzerland. Both recipients are hosted in 2021-22.

 Our most extensive example of advancing the research base and achieving impact within the
 sector has been through the Centre of Excellence for Mental Health in Schools, the first of its
 kind in the UK. The Carnegie Centre of Excellence for Mental Health in Schools, exists to
 strengthen the mental health of the next generation by supporting schools to make a positive
 change at all levels of the UK's education system, hereby improving outcomes and life chances.
 This initiative, being led by Carnegie School of Education and Minds Ahead CIC, is focused on
 evidence-based solutions which address schools', pupils and parents/carers needs, the
 development of a professional community of school mental health experts, and leading
 innovation within the area. Since its creation, 993 schools nationally and internationally have
 engaged with the Mental Health Award which has transformed practice within these settings.
 Research projects have been commissioned by The Youth Sport Trust, The Education Support
 Partnership and Cambridge United Community Trust over the last three years. The Centre also
 collaborates on research with Bishop Grosseteste University, Lincoln on research on teacher
 wellbeing.

 Collaborative research and regional capacity building
 The School also funds several initiatives with schools, colleges and community groups within the
 region. First, the School funds eight part-time doctoral scholarships for practitioners within our
 specialist areas of race, creativity, coaching and mentoring, LGBTQ+ and mental health. Each
 scholarship is ring-fenced for current teachers and the focus is negotiated with the lead
 academic. Second, the School created the Cary Philpott Collaborative Research fund, named
 after a colleague who passed away, where education settings bid for pots of £10,000 (total
 awards of £110k) to engage in year-long research projects to improve outcomes. Each project is
 supported by a Researcher-in-Residence from the School who works with the practitioners to
 design and conduct a focused project and to edit the publication in our working paper series.
 Third, the School created the Carnegie Research Pathway for Teachers, a structured research
 development programme to build capacity within schools from an initial research project gaining
 Carnegie Teacher Research Status to the final stage of doctoral study. Again, each stage is
 supported by a Researcher-in-Residence who supports teachers through each step of the
 research and publishing process. Fourth, in November 2020 Damien Page created the
 Alternative Provision Research Network, a national collaboration of practitioners and academics
 conducting collaborative research to build a critical mass of evidence-based interventions in AP.

 While our collaboration with organisations within the region are key, we are also committed to
 working internationally to advance the discipline. For example, in 2018 the School led the

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development of LBU’s membership of the University of the Arctic Thematic Network for
 Education for Social Justice and Diversity. The University of the Arctic was set up to promote
 research activity between universities and research centres across northern areas. The
 Carnegie School of Education joined the Thematic Network for Education for Social Justice and
 Diversity in 2017 and is a leading partner in the Network’s aim to undertake research activity
 focusing on the co-creation of culturally responsive pedagogies and transformative teacher
 education to enable agency and sustainability across the North. Activities include joint funding
 applications - including the recent successful ESRC bid, joint writing of publications and setting
 up a doctoral network. As a leading member, Mhairi Beaton has represented the UK
 Government to explore how science education and research might be fostered with colleagues
 nominated by the Finnish and Russian governments. In 2018, under the auspices of the UArctic
 Thematic Network, Carnegie School of Education successfully applied as part of the consortium
 to set up the UNITWIN/UNESCO Network on Teacher Education for Social Justice and Diversity
 in Education. This Network globally expands the UArctic cooperation already established for
 Carnegie School of Education to north-south collaborations and now includes research partners
 in diverse locations such as Ethiopia and Hong Kong.

 Evaluation projects
 In 2017, we created the Carnegie Education Evaluation Unit to provide a cost-effective means of
 partners to engage in rigorous evaluation of projects. Our first client was Lloyds Banking Group
 (LBG) who tendered for a university to evaluate their school governance programme where staff
 volunteered to be school governors and to support school business managers. There were five
 key impacts. First, the evaluation has helped LBG to improve their internal recruitment
 processes to ensure their volunteer school governors and non-executive directors (NEDs) are
 matched appropriately in order to reduce attrition rates. Second, the evaluation has helped LBG
 improve training packages and networking opportunities for volunteer governors and NEDs so
 that they can have a greater impact upon schools and Multi Academy Trusts (MATs) to improve
 outcomes for pupils. Third, the evaluation has identified key problems with LBG’s concept of
 remote governors for schools in ‘cold spots’ (rural/coastal areas) and has helped LBG rethink its
 strategy. Fourth, the evaluation has enabled LBG to broaden their reach, particularly with
 regards running business workshops for schools across the country. Finally, the evaluation has
 led to research being disseminated about the contribution the business sector can make to
 school governance and in doing so has made more schools aware of the value of such volunteer
 programmes in the business sector.

 Educational technology
 The School of Education is also rapidly developing a reputation for research and enterprise
 collaboration with global corporations who are engaged in ed-tech evidenced by our research
 and enterprise partnerships with IBM and Microsoft, two global corporations in the field of
 educational technology. We were honoured to be approached by both trans-national companies,
 a testament to our growing reputation and commitment to collaborative working, to co-develop
 two current projects with impact in both regional and global educational practices.

 First, we have partnered with IBM to collaborate on the development of pioneering secondary
 and further education curricula designed to enhance the employability of students. This work is
 part of a trans-national project which has partner schools and institutions across the USA,
 Europe and Australasia. Dr Burton from the School of Education team sits on the UK project
 board tasked with implementing the P>Tech curriculum into partner schools in the UK, and has
 designed the evaluation strategy for the project following its successful national launch in Leeds
 in 2019. Schools in over 20 countries are now piloting the P>Tech curriculum, which has given
 the Carnegie School of Education a global voice due to its key role in this project.

 Second, in 2017 we became global lead partners with Microsoft to co-develop the Student
 Teacher Education Programme (STEP), a new blended-learning approach to digital literacy for
 student teachers. The STEP curriculum was introduced to all our ITE students in September
 2018 with all working towards the Microsoft Innovative Educators certification. Students are
 given free Microsoft resources such as Office 365 and educational software such as Microsoft

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sway and Class Notebook. The benefit for students is an increased knowledge of educational
 technology and the ability to decrease their workload for preparation, planning and assessment
 using technology.

 Research and civic contribution
 While our research strategy is internationally focused, we are also dedicated to supporting our
 local school and community partners as part of our civic responsibility:

       The Alwoodley Reading Project has been running since 2013 and draws on research
        from our Primary Teacher Education Team. Annually, it involves 120 Undergraduate
        Primary Education 3-11 Qualified Teacher Status students. Students observe discrete
        sessions of high-quality systematic synthetic phonics, working with small groups on the
        ‘Practice’ and ‘Apply’ sections. Academics interact, using their research on modelling
        technical language and discussing the finer points of effective practice to create long
        lasting impact.
       The four-year relationship with The Real Junk Food Project, Fuel for School and Rethink
        food has enabled the Carnegie Co-creation Project to bring together research from Anne
        Temple Clothier and placement practice from our undergraduate students to co-create
        teaching and learning resources for primary school children. These Education Packs,
        relating to cooking, nutrition and well-being are distributed to over 56 schools in the
        region, and in addition to providing valuable social enterprise experiences for our
        students, they add-value to the Community Investment companies, charities and schools
        associated with the project.
       Dr Kakos, Reader, led a project on dialogical learning with Dr Noboru Tanaka, Visiting
        Fellow from Gigu University, Japan, at Batley Girls school which focused on dialogical
        learning based on methodologies drawn from Philosophy for Children (P4C). In addition,
        the team created a partnership between Batley School and Gifu High School, Japan.
        Two joint online (Skype) lessons were organised in which students from the two schools
        learned about consumerism, discussed about the impact (social, environmental, etc.) of
        consumerism and exchanged views and experiences on the topic.
       Dr Kakos also led a project focusing on educational inclusion via storytelling. This was
        part of a pilot project aiming to examine the potential of storytelling in facilitating
        individuals’ reflections on identity (social, political, ethnic, cultural, etc.) and to support
        educational inclusion of socially marginalised students. We organised two workshops in
        secondary schools with Y10 and Y11 students, one in Batley and the other in
        Lawnswood High.
       The Covid-19 pandemic has hit BAME communities the hardest. Led by Lisa
        Stephenson, we created a project that seeks to extend the Story Makers ‘reimagining
        home project’, an online learning story, to meet the needs of youngsters and families who
        work with Ujima, alongside Centre for Race, Education and Decoloniality. In consultation
        with young people at Ujima, we created an immersive interactive online learning
        experience. Older children within Ujima take a mentoring role with younger children
        alongside local professional artists within this fictional environment. The learning
        experience will feel engaging, empowering and ambitious to young people and will
        celebrate community role models.

 Advancing the discipline
 As well as advancing the discipline through our research projects and collaborations, as a
 School we are deeply committed to contributing to the discipline of education research through
 participation in conferences, key committees, journal editing and reviewing as evidenced in the
 following table:




                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

             Conferences attended                                         195
             Key notes delivered                                          80
             Journal editorial posts                                      12
             Journal reviewer status                                      67

 In addition:
      Damien Page: chair of the Alternative Provision Research Network
      Rachel Lofthouse: executive member of the University Council for Education of Teachers
         (UCET), chair of UCET CPD Forum 2017-2020, member of British Educational Research
         Association Blog (BERA) Editorial Board, 2016-2020
      Vini Lander: executive member of the Universities’ Council for the Education of Teachers
         (UCET); member of UCET Research and International Committee; editorial board of
         Race, Ethnicity and Education journal; Chair of UCET Equalities sub-group; member of
         National Education Union Independent Assessment Commission
      Jonathan Glazzard: member of UCET Research Committee editorial board of Frontiers in
         Sociology and Frontiers in Psychology; Committee member All Parliamentary Advisory
         Group for a Fit and Healthy Lifestyle
      Mhairi Beaton: UK representative on the European Educational Research Association
         Council; British Educational Research Association Executive member; Association of
         Teacher Education Europe Convenor of Research and Development Committee; Editor
         International Journal of Student Voice, Frontiers in Education
      Shona Hunter served three terms as a member of the ESRC Peer Review College
      Stephen Newman: Deputy Editor of Journal of Education for Teaching
      Sarah Hindmarsh: member of UCET Primary and Early Years Committee
      Steve Burton: member of UCET Management Committee
      Michalis Kakos: Advisory Committee of the Network of European Citizenship Educators
         (NECE); Governing Board of SIRIUS European Policy Network on Migrant Education
      Louise Nelson: member of Association of Science Education committee
      Shona Hunter: member of ESRC Peer Review College
      Nicole Gridley is an Editorial Board Member for the journal BMC Psychology

 Overview and the future direction
 Since 2014, the School has transformed our approach to research and enterprise, massively
 increasing income, attracting outstanding established researchers and exciting new academics
 and building a support structure where research at all levels can flourish. With a vibrant and
 productive research culture now established, we remain as ambitious as ever and have set
 targets for 2026 in our new research strategy that reflect this: we will have six impact case
 studies including new areas of Alternative Provision, inclusive physical education and refugee
 education; 80% of staff will be independent researchers; gross research income will reach £2
 million per year; we will have 120 research students within the School; the entire curriculum will
 be research-rich. These targets will be achieved through the complete integration of the
 Research Leadership Team, with each Professor and Reader leading a cross School strand of
 the research strategy, with foci such as income generation, the development of staff,
 internationalisation and research impact. Most importantly, however, our research will be even
 more effective in improving the life chances of children and young people.




                                                                                             Page 13
