Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Institution: University of the West of England, Bristol

Unit of assessment: 34 Communication, Cultural and Media Studies

Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Context, Structure and Core Focus
This unit comprises the work of 30 staff with significant research responsibility based principally in
the Faculty of Arts, Creative Industries and Education (ACE). Staff conduct research across the
breadth of Communication, Cultural and Media Studies in scholarly and applied contexts.

The principal locus – 20 staff – is the Digital Cultures Research Centre (DCRC), a cross-faculty,
multi-disciplinary network founded in 2009 by Professor Dovey and led since 2014 by Professor
Rose. Its core focus is interrogating established and emergent digital technologies and creating
practical approaches to responsible digital futures. DCRC expanded significantly by establishing the
cross-faculty Creative Economy Unit (CEU) in January 2017, led by Dovey, to explore critically how
creative ecosystems are produced, managed and sustained, developing knowledge exchange
programmes that enable creative practitioners, businesses, artists, and academics to develop
models of sustainable and inclusive growth for creative industries.

A secondary locus – 8 staff – is the Moving Image Research Group (MIRg), established in 2018
under the leadership of Associate Professors Bould and Crofts to consolidate and extend the work
of the Film and Television Studies Group (2006-17) and the Creative Media Group (2008-17)
reported on in REF 2014. MIRg staff conduct research into the creative, cultural and historical
dimensions of moving image production, distribution and exhibition.

The Science Communication Unit (SCU), based jointly in the faculties of Health and Applied
Sciences (HAS) and Environment and Technology (FET), forms a third locus. The work of three
SCU staff is included in this unit – co-directors and Associate Professors Weitkamp and Wilkinson
and Senior Research Fellow Sardo – because their research explores how scientific
communication is embedded in social and cultural ecologies.

Although these groupings have distinct foci and are located in different physical spaces, they have
porous boundaries and overlapping interests. Staff work collaboratively on joint projects and shared
PhD supervision. Each contributes to the two cross-cutting themes described below.

The unit maintains a stable and sustainable research environment financed through a mixture of
internal and external funding described in section 3. UWE’s Research, Business and Innovation
(RBI) and Academic Practice Directorate (APD) support external bid development and knowledge
exchange, ensuring rigorous evaluation through a Peer Review College and post-award support.
RBI provides additional support through identifying funding, disseminating best practice, running a
broad range of research and impact events, workshops and training sessions linked to the Vitae
Researcher Development Framework, supporting public engagement and assisting with impact
evidence-gathering. The faculties provide additional support, detailed in sections 2 and 3.

Overarching Research and Impact Strategy, Ethics and Objectives
Closely aligned to the University’s Research 2030 strategy (see Institutional Statement), the broad
spectrum of research conducted by staff is challenge-based rather than subject driven, creating and
applying knowledge that will contribute to UWE’s overarching ‘Transforming Futures’ agenda.
Research in the unit has been informed by a shared research-with-impact strategy with four main
aims:

   (1) To produce internationally excellent research that has real world impact and contributes to a
      sustainable economy and society, encouraging diversity and inclusivity.
    (2) To enable staff to undertake ambitious projects – developed through partnerships,
      collaboration and co-creation with regional industry and stakeholder networks – as the

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      platform on which national and international research-with-impact is based.
   (3) To engage in interventionist research that engages with real world issues and policy as a
      locally embedded civic university with national and international reach.
   (4) To support and grow a diverse complement of PGRs, PDRs and Research Fellows in order
      to broaden the unit’s research base and ensure sustainability.

Research practice is framed by UWE’s Code of Good Research Conduct, its Data Protection
Standard for Research and associated training initiatives. Staff adhere fully to research integrity,
ethics, equality and diversity practices, and the University’s commitment to an open research
environment, as described in the Institutional Statement. Staff actively promote open access
initiatives. For example, DCRC is developing an open source network database and visualization
platform that all research staff and partners can use.

Achievement of Strategic Aims for Research and Impact, 2014-2020

1. Digital Cultures Research Centre
During the reporting period, DCRC increased substantially its range of collaborations, and the
significance and reach of its impact to become a leading international centre for multi-disciplinary
practice-based research and knowledge exchange.

(i) Creative Economy/Knowledge Exchange
In particular, DCRC led three significant programmes of work at scale:

   (a) Research and Enterprise in Arts and Creative Technology (REACT), an AHRC-funded
       Knowledge Exchange Hub for the Creative Economy (2012-16), generated a pioneering
       transferable model of diagnostic workshops that enabled cultural and creative partners to
       develop shared aims and understandings. Its influence across the creative sector is detailed
       in the ‘Creative economy’ Impact Case Study. REACT’s findings and methods have been built
       on in two subsequent research and development programmes, whose multiple partnerships
       are described in section 4 1.1.

   (b) The South West Creative Technology Network (SWCTN; 2018-21, PI Dovey, Co-I Dillon),
       invests in interdisciplinary R&D fellowships across three domains – Immersion, Automation
       and Data – enabling academics, artists, designers, computer scientists, engineers and
       business developers to research and deliver new products and services across a range of
       sectors. To date, SWCTN has invested in 75 fellowships and 24 new prototypes across the
       three domains, alongside dispersing 53 micro-grants to community and cultural organizations
       and 24 business development grants. The network has provided a springboard for the
       emergence of 20 new businesses and business pivots across the region. Responding to
       COVID-19, the network’s ‘Lessons From Now’ support programme enabled eight SWCTN
       alumni whose livelihoods were impacted by the pandemic to continue their professional
       practice.

   (c) Bristol+Bath (B+B) Creative R+D (2018-23, PI Dovey) aims to enhance innovation and
       productivity in the Bristol and Bath region by commissioning fellowships to research and
       develop emergent technology prototypes that explore the pathfinder themes of Digital
       Placemaking, Expanded Performance and Amplified Publishing. To date it has invested in 25
       fellowships, four Digital Placemaking prototypes investigating the impact of digital
       technologies on place-making and live performance and four further prototypes addressing
       the theme of Expanded Performance, exploring liveness and togetherness in theatre, live
       music and technology.

These three major programmes have been complemented by numerous smaller projects detailed in
section 3, notably the Network for Creative Enterprise (2016-19) that delivered a tailored package
of freelance and SME incubation and support to increase economic growth in the West of England.
These projects have enhanced and extended DCRC’s civic role by building new partnerships
between city-wide cultural organizations, community groups and public agencies to widen

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
participation in co-created ecologies.

(ii) Interactive and Immersive Media
DCRC leads UWE’s cross-Faculty Immersion Network, and has also consolidated and developed
its research into interactive and, increasingly, immersive media, addressing digital transformations
within creative industries through interdisciplinary collaboration, often through practice-as-research.
Through its i-Docs symposia (see section 4), DCRC is now recognised as a major UK centre for
emerging nonfiction storytelling, with a strong cohort of practice-based PhD researchers (section 2)
who help deliver numerous outputs and public engagements (section 4).

i-Docs’ work has been extended through two substantial projects:

Ambient Literature (2015-18, Dovey PI, Abba Co-I), which expanded DCRC’s ongoing work into
emerging narrative forms, producing prize-winning innovative works, A Manifesto for Ambient
Literature and a major edited collection Ambient Literature to frame collaborations in this expanding
field.

Virtual Realities: Immersive Documentary Encounters (2017-20, Rose Co-I) in which HEI and
creative industry partners explored the production and user experience of virtual reality nonfiction
producing an Interactive History of Nonfiction VR and three major commissions.

These projects have been complemented by Crogan’s research on the cultural politics of
automation, including as CoI for the Automation Anxiety Network (AHRC, 2017). Crogan received a
SWCTN Automation Fellowship (2019) to investigate AI’s challenges and potentials for creative
production and edited Unboxing the Black Box (2020), a collection of Fellows’ reflections on this
topic.

DCRC’s status as a sector leader in creative economy knowledge exchange and emerging media is
evidenced by its participation in the UKRI-funded ‘Strength in Places: My World’ project (2020-25),
which addresses immersive media formats and technologies, content creation, delivery and
consumption. Co-I Rose is academic lead on ‘Experimental Productions’, which will test and
showcase technical innovation through the production of ambitious immersive content. Co-I
Moreton leads on ‘Understanding & Monitoring the Creative Business Ecosystem’, which will
survey creative sector business models to refine a methodology for mapping creative ecologies that
prioritizes resilience and inclusion.

2. Moving Image Research Group (MIRg)
Over the reporting period MIRg developed three main research foci: Screen Industry Studies,
Screen Cultures and Screen Production, enabling researchers to make a significant impact locally,
regionally, nationally and internationally through civic engagement, cultural leadership and policy
advocacy.

(i) Screen Industry Studies
This strand builds on a three-year (2013-16) European project, SiFTI (Success in the Film and
Television Industries), whose UK work package was led by Professor Spicer supported by
Presence. SiFTI’s investigation into the production cultures of film and television companies was
extended by further research on Bristol’s screen ecology and Genders’ work on freelancers whose
impact is documented in the ‘Bristol City of Film’ Impact Case Study. The AHRC-funded UK
Feature Docs research project (2017-21, PI Presence, Co-I Spicer), which analysed the factors
that have shaped the feature-length documentary film industry’s rapid development and the
challenges it faces, has generated academic outputs and a major report (see section 4).

(ii) Screen Cultures
This strand encompasses research on issues of representation and consumption in film and
television. It includes the work of Crofts, Glitre and Spicer on the cultural politics of stardom,
Tincknell’s work on cultural, including British Asian, identities and her and Wilson’s work on the


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
politics of ageing. Bould has developed pioneering science fiction research that has focused
increasingly on representations of anthropogenic climate change across screen media.

(iii) Screen Production
Promoting and developing media practice-as-research is a longstanding concern, initiated by
Dovey in 2007 when he founded Screenworks. Crofts became editor in 2008 and continues in this
role, widening the range of formats accommodated and enhancing the journal’s profile. Crofts has
mentored other staff to produce ambitious experimental practice-based film and immersive
installation pieces.

3. Science Communication Unit
Over the reporting period, the SCU has achieved international recognition as a leading centre for
the investigation and analysis of the ways in which science communicates with society. Its research
addresses a wide range of topics through numerous collaborations (see section 4) and externally
funded projects including:

   (i) DRY and the follow up Endows (2014-20, Weitkamp Co-I) created innovative resources for
         use in drought risk management, developing best practice for public engagement.
   (ii) I’Nudge (2017-19, Co-I Sardo) translated health care policy makers’ decisions into citizen
         engagement.
   (iii) ClairCity (2016-20, Co-I Sardo) was a citizen-led project to devise the communication of
         policy options to improve air quality and reduce carbon emissions.
   (iv) RETHINK: (2019-22, Weitkamp and Wilkinson Co-Is) analyses the skills and competencies
         needed by journalists to communicate effectively in the digital era.

4. Cross-Cutting Themes
Researchers from all three groupings collaborate on two cross-cutting themes that address broad
issues, seeking to intervene in important debates as illustrated by the following representative
examples:

4.1 Communities/Sustainability/Resilience
Research in this area grew out of the Creative Citizens (2012-15) programme. DCRC and SCU
researchers investigated the changing nature of communities in their historical and cultural contexts
and their role in sustaining and enhancing citizens’ quality of life. The programme’s influential
report, Creative Citizen Unbound, was launched in April 2016 at a House of Lords event for over
100 academics, cultural intermediaries, policy makers and politicians. Sobers’ participation enabled
him to develop Hidden Presence UK, a series of projects to explore creative responses to the
presence of Black communities in Britain, in collaboration with regional arts and cultural
organisations, including Bath Black Families Education Support Group. Stories of Hidden Presence
in Bath City (2016) has been widely screened in the region and inspired participants to produce
their own songs and short films. He developed this research as PI for the AHRC Research Network
‘Ethiopian Echoes on a British Landscape’ (2017-18), which explored the legacies of Emperor Haile
Selassie I, who lived in Bath from 1936-41. Sobers’ African Kinship project (2014 -) included the
film Blood Sugar (2018) depicting how African slave labour was essential to the economies of
English country houses, which has been widely exhibited nationally and internationally. In
recognition of his research exploring the history and legacies of transatlantic slavery, Sobers was
invited onto the ‘We Are Bristol History Commission’, formed by the Mayor of Bristol after the
toppling of the Colston Statue on 7 June 2020, to decide how the fallen statue will be exhibited to
the public.

A second nucleus has been the sustainability and resilience of communities. This concern informs
many of the projects already noted but has been the particular focus of Dillon’s work as Professor
of City Futures. Through leading the AHRC Research Network: Repair Acts (Repair /ReUse
/Maintenance, 2016-18), Dillon brought together creative artists and environmental activists to
research applied, artistic, scholarly and civic practices dealing with the care, upkeep and reuse of
objects, materials, buildings, systems and processes. Addressing policies such as the United
Nations’ Global Sustainable Development Goals (2015), Repair Acts develops restorative

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
approaches to manufacturing. Project findings have been presented at various international
gatherings throughout 2018-20 (see section 4.2.4).

4.2 Media Activism
Various forms of media activism and intervention inform several of the projects detailed above. It
has been a particular focus in Presence’s research on radical film, including as Co-I on the AHRC
Radical Film Network: Sustaining Alternative Moving Image Cultures (2016-18) and associated
interventions, as detailed in the ‘Radical film network’ Impact Case Study. Davies’ investigation of
the penal system in The Separate System (2017) became a key element in the Howard League’s
campaign for legal reform. Dickinson, Crogan and Salihbegović have critiqued various systems
of surveillance. Hyder co-founded BLIMA (Bristol Live Music Archive) in 2009 to document the
‘Bristol Sound’ whose inter-ethnic mixing and cultural exchange epitomises the city’s unique
musical identity. As content developer for ‘Bristol Music: Seven Decades of Sound’ at Bristol’s M-
Shed Museum (2018), Hyder showed how this branding has been central to Bristol’s sense of
culture and creativity. This work has had national impact by identifying Bristol as one of the UK’s
pre-eminent music cities and international reach through his membership of the Ten Cities project
funded by the Goethe Institute exploring five inner city club cultures across European and African
cities.

Activist interventions are a core concern of Journalism staff, including Gross’s work on the press
coverage of the EU’s migrant crisis, commissioned by the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees. The findings of research on the decline in press coverage of court reporting led by
Reardon were used by the Transparency Project group, the Courts and Tribunals Service
Commons Committee and the Bureau of Investigative Journalism and presented as evidence to the
House of Commons Justice Select Committee on Courts and Tribunals Reform regarding Open
Justice. Gilroy-Ware’s work on social media interrogates the cultural and political economies of
digital platforms, their psychological drivers, and their impact on the nature of public conversations.
Chamberlain’s Blacklisted: the Secret Battle between Big Business and Trade Unions (2016) led to
an investigation by the Information Commissioner’s Office resulting in: compensation for victims of
this discriminatory practice; outlawing blacklisting by the European Parliament and by the devolved
UK nations; and a high-level enquiry into police and security service involvement in blacklisting.

Future Directions
The overarching strategic aims across the unit going forward are to:

   (i) Increase the breadth and, in particular, the international reach and impact of its research
         collaborations, partnerships and knowledge exchange activities.
   (ii) Extend its research activism impact, intervening in major debates and cross-cutting issues
         including: the new creative industries landscape post-pandemic; sustainability; climate
         change and green technologies; the politics of place-making.
   (iii) Further integrate PGRs, PDRs and Fellows into the unit’s research culture to help ensure
         continuity and sustainability across its research activities and increase the diversity of its
         research base.

Each grouping will contribute to these aims, which align with UWE’s 2030 Strategy’s four Research
Beacons: Digital Futures; Creative Industries and Technologies; Sustainability and Climate Change
Resilience; Health and Wellbeing (see Institutional Statement). Staff will continue to collaborate on
the cross-cutting themes with an enhanced focus on sustainability and resilience (including post-
pandemic recovery). As examples: Dillon is extending her work on repair cultures, and Sobers his
investigation of marginalised historical and contemporary narratives relating to the African and
Caribbean presence and impact on the city of Bath.

DCRC
DCRC plans to broaden its research base, pursuing synergies with MIRg and SCU as part of a co-
ordinated programme of research activities with an enhanced range of partners that can respond in
an agile way to the rapidly changing creative economy landscape, not least the impact of COVID-
19.

                                                                                                   Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Immersive & Interactive Media
In addition to her role in the My World project, Rose will explore audience experience of immersive
media and its potential to engage publics critically with aspects of climate crisis; Aston is
developing a polyphonic approach to interactive documentary, moving towards more open relations
of perception, time, rhythm, aesthetics and process; Abba will oversee commercial and research
developments in the Ambient Literature Lab, pivoting its work to explore the potential of situated
storytelling in a post-pandemic environment; Stiegler’s research will address the adoption of social
XR platforms and the wider transition to digital societies, now accelerated in the context of COVID-
19, exploring how immersive media intertwines with AI technology and robotics and can support
sustainable futures; Salihbegović will continue to explore the affordances of immersive digital
technologies for reconfigurable and responsive performance design and practice.

Creative Economies Lab (CEL)
A major preoccupation will be to ensure that both SWCTN and B+B Creative R+D deliver on their
aims to expand and strengthen regional networks, generate spill-over effects across different
sectors at multiple scales and develop a diverse new talent base that will lead the region’s creative
industries to 2030, including developing a second iteration of SWCTN. The Creative Economies
Lab (CEL) will pursue Government and other capacity building funding to support the role of HEIs
working with creative industries in sustainable economic recovery. The change of title from Creative
Economy Unit to the Creative Economies Lab registers an enhanced focus on questions of
economic diversity and inclusive growth, deploying a creative ecosystems model to develop an
ethical, moral and sustainable creative sector by articulating the cultural values that accrue from
creative industry enterprise. Expanding its international reach and moving beyond delivering funded
projects, the Lab will generate an evolving body of work that is critical, creative and experimental.

MIRg
Screen Industries: Genders and Spicer will work with CEL staff to broaden their investigation of
regional screen ecologies in the UK and internationally, beginning with a faculty-funded European
network (2020-21). Presence and Spicer will extend their work on Bristol as the ‘Green Hollywood’
(working with SCU); Presence will expand the study of the UK feature-docs industry, working with
its various stakeholders to transform recommendations into actions and developing international
collaborations. Crofts will enlarge her research on film tourism and placemaking through a
comparative study of the strategic aims of UNESCO Cities of Film through an AHRC network.
Stardom, genre, documentary, curation and exhibition, and the cultural politics of identity remain
key foci for Screen Culture researchers, but with an increasing emphasis on sustainability and
inclusivity including investigating the representation of climate change through an Anthropocene
Cultures Research Network (Bould). Screen Production aims to broaden its research base by
supporting more practice-based staff to articulate their practice as research, with particular attention
to screen adaptation and feature-film development, and to extend its leadership of media practice
research through convening international workshops, developing staff links with Norway and
Estonia.

SCU
SCU will develop and extend its research that demonstrates how science is embedded in the
cultural fabric of society, empowering students and various publics to consider the role science
plays and the contributions they can make to current and future societal challenges by:

   (a) securing high profile, internationally collaborative and interdisciplinary projects exploring
       today’s ‘wicked’ problems (e.g. climate change) and identifying new streams of research
       aligned to UWE beacons;
   (b) increasing partnerships with key practitioner groups (e.g. networks, such as Ecsite, the
       European Network of Science Centres, high profile NGOs) to increase the impact of its
       research on the research community, science communication practitioners, students and
       society;
   (c) leading the development of a local community of practice in science communication by
       building on the momentum of the inaugural Southwest Science Communicators’ Network
       meeting (2019);

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   (d) continuing to provide high-quality online and face-to-face training and professional
       development for science communicators internationally, embedding best practice in
       communication and engagement approaches informed by SCU’s pioneering research;
   (e) explore additional synergies with DCRC through collaborative research opportunities.

Section 2. People

Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
The unit’s overall strategy is to recruit, develop and retain high-achieving researchers at all career
stages whose work complements and extends the core aims defined in section 1. Its ambition is
reflected in the increased number of staff whose work is submitted, from 18 in 2014 to 30 in 2021.
23 staff (76%) hold primarily research-focused positions: 4 professors, 14 associate professors
(AP) and 5 research fellows.

During the reporting period, Abba, Aston, Crofts, Crogan, Gross, Sobers, Weitkamp and
Wilkinson were promoted to associate professor; Rose and Spicer to professor. These
promotions reflect strategic investment to strengthen areas of excellence and increase research
capacity. They have been augmented by additional appointments: RF Foster and AP Virani
enhance DCRC’s work on creative ecologies; Virani strengthens CEL’s international dimensions,
and is leading its research into the creative industry’s strategies for post-pandemic resilience and
recovery. Dillon was appointed Professor of City Futures in 2016 to lead DCRC’s research into
urban futures, community, and the ethics of sustainability and resilience. The appointments of SRF
Salihbegović and AP Stiegler have extended DCRC’s work in immersive technologies and
performance. Salihbegović’s research focuses on the integration of next generation immersive
digital technologies into performance design and practice; Stiegler’s analyses immersion and
Extended Reality (XR) technologies as defining elements in understanding sustainable digital
futures. Davies and Lees have extended MIRg’s expertise in media practice research; Genders
has expanded its capacity in screen industries analysis, Gilroy-Ware in media activism. The
promotion of Weitkamp and Wilkinson to APs ensures SCU has effective leadership and
enhanced research capability.

Recruitment of three Early Career Researchers – Agusita, Genders and Lees – and the promotion
of outstanding PDRs (Genders and Presence) into full-time posts, has ensured the unit’s
continued vitality and sustainability. Salihbegović and Genders hold Wallscourt Fellowships and
Aston a Wallscourt Associate Professorship, part of a UWE initiative aimed at increasing research
capacity in priority areas through appointments with an equal split of research and teaching.
Presence and Aston are part of the initial cohort of the Research Accelerator Programme
designed to enhance research careers through developing strategic bidding skills and fostering new
collaborations.

Support to develop individual and collaborative projects and high-quality outputs is provided
through systematic mentoring and peer review. The importance of impact is fully embedded in the
research culture in staff interviews, at induction, during probation, in personal development reviews
and in career progression and promotion evaluations. Staff are supported to build impact into their
research activity at every level, beginning with the conception and design of the research itself.
They are encouraged to work with a variety of business and civic stakeholders as active partners,
responding to their interests, needs and priorities whilst undertaking rigorous conceptual enquiries
that address significant issues for the creative industry and science sectors.

UWE is committed to the Researcher Concordat, as evidenced by holding the HR Excellence in
Research Award since 2012, and has a Researcher Skills Development Programme that provides
bespoke support for career development. Each research grouping supports ECRs, PDRs and less
experienced researchers through mentors and critical friends. Programmes in Research Leadership
and Enhanced Research Development and a Researchers’ Forum – Presence sits on the steering
group – enable RAs, RFs and SRFs to exchange ideas and best practice.

All research staff can apply for two University-wide annual funding schemes: (i) the Vice-

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Chancellor’s ECR awards (VCECR) that support outstanding ECRs with up to £15,000 to undertake
preliminary research for ambitious projects that could be developed into major funding applications;
(ii) the Vice-Chancellor’s Interdisciplinary Research Challenge Fund (VCIRCF), which encourages
cross-faculty collaborations. Six unit staff have won VCECR awards: Agusita, Davies, Foster,
Genders, Gross and Presence. Lees, Presence and Spicer won VCIRCF awards to work with
colleagues in the Faculty of Business and Law. Lees’ project ‘Virtual Maggie’, explores the creative,
technological and ethical concerns occasioned by the digital simulation of public figures in fiction
films; Presence and Spicer are investigating the impact of COVID-19 on Bristol’s Natural History
Filmmaking Community. In addition, Abba, Crofts, Crogan and Rose received REACT awards;
Crogan a SWCTN fellowship and Sobers a B+B Creative R+D fellowship. These awards enhanced
their skillsets and expertise as well as contributing to project outcomes.

All research-active staff in ACE are allocated up to £1,500 per person per year for attending
conferences and conducting empirical research and have five weeks scholarly leave per annum.
Unit researchers have also benefitted significantly from awards made through the Faculty’s five
competitive funding schemes:

  (i) Research Time provides dedicated research time to complete internationally excellent
        outputs;
  (ii) Research Collaboration Fund provides up to £12,000 to support staff developing
        collaborative projects with academic and industry partners;
  (iii) Research Impact Fund provides money to extend impact activities and evidence gathering;
  (iv) Research Publicity and Dissemination Fund enables staff to promote their research inside
        and outside the academy, including exhibitions, reports and book launches that significantly
        increase visibility and impact;
  (v) Research Group Scheme encourages the creation of new research groups around
        strategically significant themes and supports the ongoing work of established groups such as
        MIRg.

Selected staff participate in annual intensive bid-preparation Summer Schools for emerging
researchers.

The Faculty’s Associate Dean Research, supported by its Director of Research and Associate
Heads of Department (Research), ensure that applications for internal funding are evaluated in
terms of research excellence, career progression and alignment with research strategy; ECR
applications are considered separately to ensure parity. Research leaders liaise with department
heads about workloads, and monitor progress and outcomes against agreed targets that are
sensitive to career positioning, progression, track record, wellbeing and equality and diversity
issues. The Faculty has Grant Capture and PGR Strategy groups that offer advice and support,
help shape action plans and co-ordinate and prioritize research projects and PGR recruitment.

ECRs and SRFs are encouraged to join more experienced colleagues on PhD supervisory teams
and are written into ambitious projects as part of a developing culture of collaboration, co-
presentation and co-authorship, as evidenced in the number of co-written outputs. Each grouping
recruits visiting fellows and professors to extend their research base. These scholars play an active
role through mentoring staff and PGRs, providing access to global networks, sitting on advisory
groups, and collaborating on projects, conferences and symposia. For example, Professor Brian
Winston, an internationally respected authority on documentary studies and media technology, has
helped develop DCRC’s i-Docs research and assisted the development of the Feature Docs
project.

Research Students/Post-Doc Fellows
UWE’s Graduate School (GS), established in 2012, provides robust governance through a
consistent and rigorous framework for monitoring progression, as well as organising supervisor
training and a range of student workshops and residentials framed by the Vitae Researcher
Development Framework. Staff supervisory skills are regularly monitored and updated by the
Graduate School through workshops and masterclasses. PGRs have access to Wellbeing Services,

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
augmented by dedicated support through the GS. PGR representation is woven into the fabric of
the University’s PGR governance structures, with voices at Graduate School Sub-Committee and
Faculty Research Degrees Committees. The Faculty organises an annual PGR conference with
guest speakers, work-in-progress presentations and skills workshops as part of a week-long series
of University PGR events. It provides a PGR support fund to facilitate conference attendance,
archival research and training opportunities. Two bespoke taught modules – Research
Methodologies and Research Portfolio – specifically support arts and humanities PhDs.

UWE’s leadership of the 3D3 (Digital Design, Arts and Media) AHRC Centre for Doctoral Training
(2014-19), a partnership with Falmouth and Plymouth, the two other principal creative technology
universities in the South West, created a step change in PGR provision, training, and completions;
these have risen from eight reported in REF 2014 to 27 in REF 2021. UWE staff have supervised
25 of the 55 practice-led doctoral students supported by the consortium. Through the founding
partnership with REACT, 3D3 PGRs have been connected to various SMEs, arts and cultural
organisations and their international networks, which has increased the visibility and impact of their
doctoral research. They have undertaken extended training activities, including placements to
develop practice and enhance employability. 3D3 co-ordinators have organised seminars,
workshops and training events that have focused on research impact, networking, partnership
building, establishing a public research profile and enhancing future employability, IP and
community research ethics. Annual international summer intensives in Berlin, Linz (Ars
Electronica), Helsinki and Lisbon fostered European collaborations. 3D3 students have won
numerous awards; three were featured in the 2019 Forbes Magazine selection of cutting edge XR
(Extended Reality) projects. Leading 3D3 has enabled UWE to become an international centre for
practice-based research. 3D3 student projects have extended the scope of existing projects (e.g.
Ambient Literature) and significantly enriched its research into, for example, immersive
technologies and creative ecologies.

In recognition of its field leadership, 3D3 was awarded 12 National Productivity Investment Fund
(NPIF) studentships (six UWE-based) in 2017, devised by 3D3 staff, each a collaboration with an
industry partner. These students formed an interdisciplinary Design Futures Lab whose
investigations and relationships extended 3D3’s existing industry-academia collaborations. In 2018,
3D3 was awarded four additional NPIF studentships under the AI and Data Driven Research
highlight to develop AI products to meet current and future design challenges.

In 2017, 3D3 was awarded further NPIF funds to establish six Creative Economy Engagement
Post-Doctoral Fellowships (two at UWE). These extended research into creative technologies and
ecologies, including Genders’ work on freelancers’ place-making role. In 2019, 3D3 offered a
further UWE NPIF internship to co-create with an industry partner for six months a touring exhibition
that showcased the variety of approaches to artistic research developed by 3D3 PGRs. The NPIF
fellows form part of the unit’s diverse and thriving post-doctoral community attached to the various
projects undertaken by each of the three groupings. PDR is a particular feature of the SWCTN
project: Moreton will lead an ECR Fellowship programme for the B+B Creative R+D (2021-22),
which supports 16 one-year fellowships, offering the next generation of researchers access to
critical thinking and practice around the development of inclusive creative economies at the
intersection of academic work and socially responsible innovation.

Through its reputation as a centre for practice-based creative technological research, UWE was
invited to be one of two additional partners in the reconfigured South, West and Wales AHRC
Doctoral Training Partnership (SWW2: 2019-24), an alliance of nine universities in the South, West
and Wales, led by University of Bristol. UWE plays a full part in the recruitment, training and
supervision of SWW2 students and secured one of the consortium’s first three collaborative
doctorates, investigating the future of independent cinema exhibition, in partnership with Watershed
and Exeter University.

The unit continues to attract additional self- or institutionally-funded PGRs across the breadth of its
research range; sponsors include the Universities of Bournemouth and Greenwich, the Eden
Project, the Portuguese Foundation for Science and Technology, and CERN. DPhil provision is

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
being actively extended to support staff to develop a research focus e.g. Gilroy-Ware.

Equality and Diversity
Researchers embrace the University’s commitment to fairness, inclusion, respect for protected
characteristics and the rejection of racial, religious, disability, class, gender or sexual discrimination
through its Single Equality Scheme, and as a Stonewall Diversity Champion (see Institutional
Statement). Its commitment to Athena Swan guidelines is evidenced by the Women in Research
Mentoring Scheme, set up to address the imbalance of male and female staff in senior academic
roles, which offers mentorship and support for women researchers; Rose sits on the steering
committee. Tincknell co-leads the Women, Aging, Media (WAM) international network, which
contributed to the House of Lords Select Committee Report, Women in News and Current Affairs
Reporting (2015) that directly influenced changes in television practice. WAM has sensitized staff to
issues of aging, especially the profound gender imbalance that stigmatises women far more than
men. Sobers initiated and leads the development of the cross-faculty Critical Race and Racism
Research Network, which supports academic and technical staff, students and alumni working in
this field.

Issues of equality and diversity have become increasingly central to the design and implementation
of research projects. Bristol+Bath Creative R+D, for instance, has a dedicated inclusion strand,
Creative Workforce for the Future, led by Virani, which promotes work for, and by, people from
under-represented groups. An apprenticeship scheme for 12 trainees from excluded backgrounds
across six cultural hubs and 36 creative companies improves inclusivity in the creative sector
through mentoring and developing best practice training guidelines. The AHRC project Dementia
Connect, Co-Designing a Creative Economy Healthcare Hub (Dovey PI), supported the
development of new products and services and made policy recommendations to improve the lives
of people living with dementia and their carers.

The selection process for PGR and staff applications is carefully monitored and regularly evaluated.
Interviewing panels are trained to ensure they avoid unconscious bias and are sensitive to gender
and diversity issues. Over half (16/30) of the staff in the unit with SRR are women who have equal
representation at AP and professorial levels. No BAME staff were represented in the 2014
submission against two in the current submission. Extensive support is provided for staff and PGRs
who experience ill health, wellbeing issues or who have caring responsibilities that impact on their
research. The University and Faculty has implemented measures to mitigate the impact of the
pandemic on research (see Institutional COVID statement).

Output selection conformed strictly to the University’s Code of Practice. Each output was evaluated
independently by two reviewers (professors and APs), who underwent equality, diversity and
inclusivity training. Over half the outputs were further evaluated by external reviewers. As stipulated
in the Code, outputs were selected on the basis of quality with no pre-determined expectation about
the number of outputs an individual might contribute. Where it was necessary to choose between
outputs with the same quality score, account was taken of the distribution of outputs between
individuals and across the subject areas of the submission.

Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research Income
External Income
As described in section 1, a core component of the unit’s research strategy is to support staff
applying for grants from a range of funders. This proactive strategy and the support given to
external bidding through internal seed-funding has secured a substantial increase in external
income – from £1.7m (£95,671 per FTE) reported in 2014 to £3.8m (£126,876 per FTE) in 2021 –
enabling a broader range of high quality research projects to be undertaken.




                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
DCRC
DCRC’s external income includes the later period of REACT (2012-16), a £4.9m AHRC award
(£1.2m to UWE as lead). REACT generated more than £9.2m in further project financing from
private investment, sales and commissions, plus additional research grants and £2.23m in internal
and external investment in legacy activities. Over four years, 22 awards from the REACT Sandbox
and Strategic funding calls were made to UWE-led projects, worth £500k. REACT’s final showcase,
The Rooms, was supported by a £56.5k match-funded grant from Arts Council England.

REACT led to two further major awards:
  (i) South West Creative Technologies Network (Research England: £6m; £1.4m to UWE, plus an
       additional £90k in fellowship awards to UWE staff);
  (ii) Bristol+Bath Creative R+D (AHRC: £6.5m; £1.4m to UWE, with £45k of subsequent
       investment in fellowships and consultancy).

DCRC secured six other substantial (£100k+) awards in the reporting period:
  (i) My World Creative Hub (UKRI £30m; £1.25m to UWE);
  (ii) Ambient Literature (AHRC: £630,000; £376,252 to UWE);
  (iii) Virtual Realities: Immersive Documentary Encounters (EPSRC: £1.29m; £260,674 to UWE);
  (iv) Creative Workforce for the Future (BEIS - European Structural and Investment Funds:
        £631,512; £151,308 to UWE);
  (v) Network for Creative Enterprise (ERDF/Arts Council England, £1m; £500k to UWE);
  (vi) Dementia Connect: Co-Designing a Creative Economy Healthcare Hub (AHRC, £156,633).
  (vii) Freedom in the City - Festival of Learning (AHRC Equality, Diversity & Inclusion
        Engagement Fellowship, £96,000)

In addition, nine smaller awards enabled individual researchers or small teams to work on specific
projects:
   (i) Creative Producers International (Arts Council England, £36k);
   (ii) Repair Acts (Repair/ReUse/Maintenance) International Network (AHRC, £34,500);
   (iii) Creative Territories Video Game Research Network (AHRC, £27,145);
   (iv) Ethiopian Echoes on a British Landscape (AHRC, £23,992);
   (v) Hubs and the Practice of Cultural Ecology (British Council £39,000; £13,491 to UWE);
   (vi) The Hidden Story (AHRC; £226,720; £14,394 to UWE);
   (vii) Bristol Produces (Paul Hamlyn Foundation, £8,300);
   (viii) Automation Anxiety (AHRC, £29,551; £8,056 to UWE);
   (ix) Unexpected Enterprises (Enterprise Educators, £6,300).

MIRg
Major awards during the reporting period include:
  (i) UK Feature Documentary Film Industry (AHRC: £197,286);
  (ii) Success in the Film and Television Industries UK work package (Norwegian Research
        Council, £67,146) (2013-16);
  (iii) Radical Film Network International Network (AHRC, 2016-18: £30,681).

SCU
SCU has won six substantial awards during the reporting period:
  (i) DRY – Drought Risk and You (NERC, £1m);
  (ii) ENDOWS – ENgaging diverse stakeholders and publics with outputs from the UK DrOught
        and Water Scarcity programme (NERC, £476,877);
  (iii) Science for Environment Policy (European Commission, £251,000);
  (iv) INSPIRE - In-situ processes in resource extraction from waste repositories (NERC,
        £131,365);
  (v) I-Nudge – Integrating Upstream Decision-making and Human Health Outcomes into Citizen
        Engagement (Wellcome Trust, £120,864);
  (vi) RETHINK (European Commission, £159,130).




                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
PGR Awards
UWE secured a substantial proportion of six AHRC PGR and PDR training awards linked to the
3D3 CDT:
  (i) £2.3m for 3D3 CDT;
  (ii) £900k (12 NPIF studentships);
  (iii) £329k (6 Creative Economy Engagement Fellowships);
  (iv) £314,650 (4 AI studentships);
  (v) £30,243 (1 AI Internship).

UWE is a member of the AHRC South West and Wales 2 DTP, awarded £9.25m.

Internal Funding
All three groupings benefitted from strategically-targeted faculty research investment:

DCRC received £1.1m funding, which includes a commitment to the Watershed (Pervasive Media
Studio) partnership and supports a 0.4 Director (Rose), two RFs, a Research Manager and
Research Administrator; the CEL receives £90k annually to support two RFs (Foster and Moreton).
Virani was awarded £24k from University COVID response funding to lead a six-month project:
‘From Catastrophe to Opportunity? Unpacking the impact of COVID-19 on the creative and cultural
industries in South West England’.

MIRg received £5k per annum to hold symposia and invite a series of guest researchers. Spicer
and Presence received HEIF awards to research Bristol’s Film and Television Industries in 2016
(£27,500) and 2020 (£32,000).

SCU receives an additional annual allocation, including HEIF funding, of some £33k.

In addition, unit staff secured £143,544 from the competitive internal funding schemes described
above over the period 2017-20.

Research Infrastructure and Facilities
Unit staff are located on three of the University campuses: Frenchay, Bower Ashton and the City
Campus; there has been significant capital investment in each of these sites over the reporting
period. The most important development has been creating a City Campus, building on DCRC’s
foundational partnership with Watershed’s Pervasive Media Studio, which expanded in 2019 into a
new studio space of 350m2 with 30 additional desks, 15 of which are allocated across SWCTN and
Bristol+Bath Creative R+D projects.

From April 2018, staff and students have had access to the nearby Bristol VR Lab – established by
UWE, University of Bristol, Watershed and the Opposable Group (a commercial tech/VR business)
to develop Virtual, Augmented and Mixed Reality technologies and products. In 2020 this provision
was replaced by an enhanced facility at Bush House, which UWE shares with Arnolfini Centre for
Contemporary Arts, providing a hub for learning, consultation, and experimental research and
development in virtual and extended realities, including Arnolfini’s curatorial practices.

PGRs and PDRs share workspaces with staff, but also have access to two dedicated rooms with
computers and desk space located at Bush House and studio/seminar space at Spike Island
International Arts Centre. Bookable kit is available from both the DCRC and the Bower Ashton
Media Centre (for all media researchers); specialist equipment for particular projects is either
bought or hired. For example, a high-quality drone camera for PhD student Laity’s investigation of
the cinematic eco-sublime helped him win ‘Best Climate Emergency Film’ at the 2020 AHRC
Research in Film awards.

The development of a City Campus has enhanced engagement with Bristol’s burgeoning cultural
quarter, enabling significant synergies between DCRC and MIRg staff, working alongside a diverse
and distributed community of artists and creative technologists with whom they share ideas,
networks and expertise. This fosters a research culture of collaboration and co-creation, which

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
helps embed our research in the city centre, making it more visible and accessible to the city’s
creative community, stimulating further projects and boosting impact.

Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Collaborations, Partnerships and Beneficiaries
Collaborations and co-creation are central to the unit’s research; its staff have partnered with a wide
range of organisations, regionally, nationally and internationally. These include local community
groups, SMEs, national institutions and international R&D companies and organizations. Given
space constraints, representative examples only are provided for each of the three groupings
(additional examples are detailed in the three impact case studies).

4.1.1 DCRC
DCRC’s main research projects involve multiple partnerships with HEIs and creative organisations:

   (i) The South West Creative Technologies Network (SWCTN) is a partnership between UWE,
       Bath Spa, Falmouth and Plymouth Universities, and creative producers Watershed and
       Kaleider (Exeter); Bristol+Bath Creative R+D, a partnership between UWE, Bath, Bath Spa
       and Bristol Universities and Watershed. Both projects conduct research primarily through
       fellowships co-created with a range of creative organisations. These include: the BBC (R&D),
       the Royal Shakespeare Company, Aardman Animations, Limina Immersive, Open Bionics
       (robotics), City ID (placemaking); public sector institutions: Met Office, Cornwall Care; and
       third sector organisations: Bristol Media, Digital Catapult, Hay Literary Festival, Knowle West
       Media Centre, Rising Arts and We the Curious. These programmes promote innovation and
       inclusive talent/skills development and enhanced connectivity, and also networked
       knowledge exchange that includes support for both early stage and larger scale business
       growth and investment. The projects are committed to ongoing public engagement through
       project prototype testing events and showcasing activities.

   (ii) Virtual Realities – Immersive Documentary Encounters, is a collaboration between UWE,
        Bristol and Bath Universities and creative industry partners including Aardman Animations,
        BBC R&D, the Guardian and MIT Open Documentary Lab. Three SMEs won commissions
        for experimental productions, allowing them to build new forms of production expertise and
        gain international exposure at festivals and markets. The growing international sector of
        immersive nonfiction has benefitted from the project’s mapping of the field, and from the
        sharing of findings from studies of the psychology, user experience, and audience reception
        of VR documentaries. Rose leads the project’s development of guidelines for ethical practice
        in VR nonfiction.

   (iii) Ambient Literature, a partnership between UWE, Bath Spa and Birmingham Universities, has
         assembled an advisory group of stakeholders (publishers, technologists, writers, artists,
         researchers and agents) including Hachette UK, Pan Macmillan, Arts Council England,
         Bibliotheca cloudLibrary, Google Creative Labs and the British Library, to help shape the
         development of an Ambient Literature Lab, academic outputs and routes to potential
         commercial opportunities. The project alerted a range of communities and publics to the
         potential of digital literature through a showcasing of experimental works launched at various
         locations in the UK, including a national tour, sponsored by the British Library and numerous
         international presentations. The project received extensive press coverage evidencing its
         significance for the future of the book.

4.1.2 MIRg
MIRg staff collaborate extensively with Watershed’s cinema curator Mark Cosgrove, who has a 0.2
teaching post at UWE, on numerous events including the annual Cinema Rediscovered season and
AfrikaEye festival. Researchers have a longstanding collaboration with Bristol Experimental and
Expanded Film to promote creative media practice, organising events, colloquia and presentations
of work-in-progress. Tincknell’s work on cultural identities directly informed her role as Cabinet
Member for Culture at Bristol City Council (2016-18), overseeing the implementation of the

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Council’s Cultural Strategy, working with diverse partners from across the cultural sector, Bristol
Cultural Development Partnership, Bristol Museums and Galleries, and numerous writers,
performers, curators and participants. Its central focus was to democratize arts and cultural
provision and governance, promoting greater inclusivity, especially of BAME and working-class
communities, which historically have found themselves marginalised from Bristol's more elite
cultural institutions, through funded projects and festivals.

MIRg researchers have worked on several multi-partnered research projects, including:

   (i) SiFTI: a partnership between UWE, Inland Norway University of Applied Sciences, Utrecht
       University, University of Southern Denmark, which generated academic outputs and a major
       international conference, New Directions in Film and Television Production Studies (2015)
       that helped set an agenda for future research.

   (ii) The Feature Documentary project: a collaboration with three institutional partners (the BFI,
        Creative England and the Grierson Trust) and five partners from each of the industry’s major
        subsets: Doc Society (finance), Dartmouth Films (production), Dogwoof (distribution), and
        Sheffield DocFest (exhibition). Its initial report, which contained detailed, evidence-based
        policy recommendations to create a more sustainable, innovative and culturally diverse
        documentary industry, was launched as part of the online panel discussion at Doc/Fest (June
        2020): ‘Documentary Utopias: Rebuilding the UK Feature Doc Landscape Post-Pandemic’.

4.1.3 SCU
SCU collaborates with a range of local, national and international partners, across multiple projects,
to enable it to increase its impact. These collaborations include:

   (i) Hosting the bi-annual SciComm South-West conference as the principal focus for SCU’s
       longstanding links with the Science in Public Network, as well as project partners such as
       Knowle West Media Centre, Bristol Natural History Consortium and The Eden Project. The
       conference provides an opportunity for local science communication researchers and
       practitioners to share current projects and promote new initiatives.

   (ii) RETHINK, which explores the digital science communication landscape in seven European
        countries, has academic partners VU University (Netherlands), Zeppelin University
        (Germany), European networks (Ecsite, European Science Centres Network) and non-
        academic partners Danish Technology Board, ITQB (Portugal), Centre for Promotion of
        Science (Serbia), Public and Science (Sweden), Copernicus Science Centre (Poland), and
        an SME (Sissa MediaLab, Italy).

   (iii) the initial research for DRY (Drought Risk and You), involving stakeholders such as water
         companies, the Environment Agency, DEFRA, NGOs (the Canal and Rivers Trust and
         Climate Outreach), as well as members of the public and university partners: Dundee, Harper
         Adams, Loughborough and Sheffield. Subsequent funding has widened the network to
         include Bristol City Council, Oxford and Reading Universities.

4.2 Wider activities/contributions to the research base
Over the reporting period, staff have contributed significantly to the disciplinary research base
through a range of activities, including 12 external examinerships at UK HEIs and examining
doctorates at over 40 different institutions in the UK and internationally; reviewing articles for over
30 different journals and evaluating book proposals for 28 different publishers.

Staff have authored a number of impactful research reports, including:

      Good Hubbing Guide (2015)
      REACT (2016)
      Creative Exchange (2016)
      The Hidden Story (2017)

                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   Go West! Bristol’s Film And Television Industries (2017)
   An Invisible Army: The Role of Freelance Labour in Bristol’s Film and Television Industries
    (2019)
   Keeping it Real: Towards a UK Documentary Film Policy (2020)
   Co-Creating Ethical, Inclusive and Sustainable Futures (2020)
   Creative Producers (2020)

Selected examples of individuals’ principal contributions include:

4.2.1 Services for funding bodies and research consultancy
DCRC
Aston was visiting researcher at the NonFictionLab, RMIT, Melbourne (2016) and Masyrk University
Brno, Czech Republic (2016); advised the BBC Academy about digital storytelling (2014-15); a
member Royal Anthropological Institute’s Film Committee (2017) and the EPSRC Digital Economy
Investigator-led Research Projects call (2018). She also worked internationally, evaluating large
grant applications to the US National Endowment for the Humanities scheme (2015) and the Insight
Grants funding applications for the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada
(2016). Dovey sat on the AHRC’s Creative Economy Advisory Group (2016-19) and was Chair of
the Leapfrog Advisory Board (2014-17), led the Shanghai-UK Exchange as part of the AHRC’s
China Creative Economy Project (2014) and worked (with City University London) on a British
Council commission that contributed to an international policy conversation on creative hubs. Rose
has been industry adviser for Sheffield DocFest (2015-18); reviewer for two MIT Open Doc Lab
white papers (2016/2019) and a consultant for Digital Catapult Creative XR call; jurist at various
documentary festivals, including IDFA Documentary Lab Digital Storytelling (2018). Sobers was a
REF reviewer for Birmingham City University (2018).

MIRg
Crofts is an academic adviser to the Bristol City of Film Steering Group, was a REF evaluator for
Sussex University (2017) and has been appointed as an Assessor to REF sub-panels 33 and 34.
Davies was a jury member at the Oberhausen Short Film Festival (2018). Presence (2020-22)
serves on the main AHRC Peer Review College as does Spicer (2017-20), who is also a
foundational member of the UKRI Research and Innovation Future Leaders Fellowships Peer
Review College (2018-2021). He was a REF evaluator for De Montfort (2019), Leeds Beckett
University (2019) and West London (2020) universities, lead evaluator for the Estonian Quality
Agency for Higher and Vocational Education reviewing the University of Tallinn’s Audio-Visual
Media PhD Programme (2018), and an academic consultant for the BFI’s Cultural Value project
(2019). Tincknell was academic adviser, LSE Commission on Gender, Equality and Power (2015).

SCU
Sardo has been a UKRI grant reviewer and a project assessor for the Welsh National Science
Academy. Weitkamp leads the Science for Environment Policy group, which translates scientific
research to enhance policymaking. Wilkinson is a Public Engagement consultant for the Wellcome
Trust working with its Ethics and Humanities centre at Oxford University; a co-developer of the
international Science Communication Masterclass; and a member of the international Hypatia
steering group promoting gender inclusivity in science. She is an evaluator for various national and
international funding bodies including the Swiss National Science Foundation and UKRI’s COVID-
19 rapid response scheme.

4.2.2 Journal/Book Series editorships and subject associations
Researchers make an important contribution to shaping disciplinary and cross-disciplinary research
agendas through their membership of journal editorial or advisory boards and various subject
associations:

DCRC
Aston is on the editorial board of the Journal of Media Practice; Foster of Rethinking Marxism.
Crogan sits on the editorial review boards of Games and Culture: A Journal of Interactive Media
(2006-); Convergence: The International Journal of Research into New Media Technologies (2008-)

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and Game Studies (2020-). Swanson is on the Editorial Advisory Board of New Formations: A
Journal of Culture, Theory and Politics (2015-); Advisory Editor Radical Cultural Studies series
(2016-); and Series Editor for Directions in Cultural History (2012-).

MIRg
Bould was founding editor of Science Fiction Film and Television (2007–2017) and an advisory
editor for Studies in Global Science Fiction (2015-) and Science Fiction Film and Television (2018-).
He also serves on the advisory boards of 11 journals (covering science fiction, horror, comparative
literature and culture, world literature, transmedia, archival research, and Marxism), and three
series: Paradoxa: Studies in World Literary Genres (2008-); Transmedia (Amsterdam UP, 2014-);
and Comparative Literature and Culture (2017-). Crofts was on the editorial board of the Journal of
Media Practice (2004-17) and is the founding editor of Screenworks (2008-), practice research
editor for Open Screens (2019-) and a member (2012-) of the International Advisory Board of
REFRAME. Glitre is on the editorial board for Movie: A Journal of Film Criticism (2010-); Presence
of Frames Cinema Journal, and Spicer the Journal of British Cinema and Television (2011-), co-
editing special issues on Stardom (2015) and RED Production (2019).

Complementing this work are ongoing contributions to subject associations. Crofts is Vice-Chair of
the British Association of Film, Television and Screen Studies (BAFTSS) and the convenor of the
Practice Research Special Interest Group; Presence and Spicer co-convene the BAFTSS Screen
Industries Special Interest Group. Glitre is a co-organiser of the Screen Studies South West
Research Network that supports PhD research and arranges regional symposia.

SCU
Weitkamp is Editor in Chief of JCOM, the Journal of Science Communication (2014-); Wilkinson
series editor for Contemporary Issues in Science Communication (2020-) and an associate editor
for Research for All (2017-).

4.2.3 Conference Organisation and Hosting
DCRC
DCRC organises two ongoing international conference series. The CEU runs an annual
international conference – Creativity, Knowledge, Cities (CKC) – where delegates from HEIs,
activist groups and cultural organisations critically explore the, often contradictory, relationships
between universities, cities and the creative economy. This forum has promoted the CEU as an
important locus for creative economy research. Aston and Rose co-convene the biennial
international i-Docs Symposia in Bristol in which around 200 academic and creative industry
delegates gather for critical reflection and creative exploration of emerging documentary practices.
i-Docs has become a critical community shaping further innovation and experimentation, attracting
commissioners from major organisations including Sundance New Frontier Labs and Arte France.
Dillon convenes Urban Knights, a DCRC-funded public programme of talks and workshops that
provokes and promotes practical approaches to alternative forms of urban governance and city
living.

MIRg
MIRg hosts an annual Practice as Research Colloquium at the Arnolfini Gallery (with Bristol
University) and Crofts has organised four Cary Comes Home festivals (2014-20), exploring the
connections between Cary Grant and Bristol where he was born as Archie Leach. Presence
organises the annual Bristol Radical Film Festival. Other MIRg-hosted conferences include: New
Directions in Film and Television Production Studies (2015; with University of Portsmouth);
Fireworks: The Visual Imagination of Angela Carter’ (2017); Investigating Regional Creative
Clusters (2018); two on Methodologies for Media Industries Research (2018 and 2020); a PhD
symposium with Inland Norway University of Applied Sciences (2018); Imag(in)ing the
Anthropocene (2019); and Filmmaking in the Academy: Practice Theory Interventions (2020).




                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
SCU
Weitkampf was on the steering committee of the Science in Public network (2016-18), Wilkinson
of the Festival of Nature Communicate Committee (2016-18), both of which organise annual
conferences for science and environmental communicators.

4.2.4 Invited Talks/Keynotes
Staff have given more than 90 invited talks or keynotes during the reporting period, for example:

DCRC
Crogan keynoted on Decomposition of Autonomy, Utrecht University (2014) and Automation and
the Future of the University, Durham University (2016). Dillon has presented at various
international venues about repair cultures including Art, Ecology & Social Justice (Salzburg, 2017),
Refrag (Paris, 2018), MAKE CITY (Berlin, 2019) and re:publica (Accra, 2020). Dovey keynoted
Inside Government: The Dowling Review – Enhancing Business University Collaboration (London,
2015) and Summit for Glasgow: City of Creative Production (2016); Rose has been invited to talk
on aspects of documentary, VR, Immersion and Interactivity: Cardiff (Teaching Documentary,
2014); Coventry (Producing Participation, 2016); Hunter College CUNY (Virtual Realities:
Immersive Documentary Encounters, 2017); Berlin, (4th VR Conference for Journalism &
Documentary 2018); and RCA (Virtual Realities & Alterities, 2019).

MIRg
Bould keynoted at various university science fiction gatherings, including: Köln (2014); Śląski w
Katowicach, Poland (2016); SOAS (2017); Liverpool (2018); Graz (2018); and Anthropocenes:
Reworking the Wound (online, 2020). Crofts has delivered talks about practice-based media
research at: AHRC Filmmaking Research Network Workshop, University of Sussex (2016); National
Association for Higher Education Moving Image, London College of Communication (2017); and
Essex University (2018); Lees gave a paper ‘Deep Fakes and Digital Face Replacement in Film
Drama’ at the Cultural Studies of Australasia conference (2019). Presence has been invited to
speak about radical film, feature documentaries and approaches to screen industry studies at
various HEIs and for Arts Council England (2017); Spicer gave keynotes on media industry
research: University of Utrecht (2014); Institute of Cultural and Creative Industry, Shanghai Jiao
Tong University (2017), British Council’s Digital Cities Final Project Summit, Birmingham City
University (2018); Tincknell gave various talks about women and aging, including keynotes at
University of Gloucester (2017) and ‘Domestic Drudges and Difficult Aunties: Older Asian Women
in British Film and Television Comedy’, Spanish Society for the Study of Popular Culture
International Conference, Palma (2018).

SCU
Weitkamp has delivered a range of invited talks on science communication in Jena (2015), Rio de
Janeiro (2019) and Sicily (2019) and a keynote, ‘Putting the A in STEAM’ at the OYAP Trust’s
STEAM Ahead conference (2018). Wilkinson delivered an invited talk at the Science
Communication School, Trieste (2019).

4.2.5 Awards & Prizes
Bould won the Science Fiction Research Association’s Pilgrim Lifetime Achievement Award for
Critical Contributions to the Study of Science Fiction and Fantasy (2016); and the International
Association for the Fantastic in the Arts Distinguished Scholarship Award (2019).

BAFTSS Awards include 2015 Best Book Prize awarded to Spicer for The Man Who Got Carter:
Michael Klinger, Independent Production and the British Film Industry, 1960-1980;
Runner-up for Best Journal Article: Spicer and Presence, ‘Autonomy and Dependency in Two
Successful UK Film and Television Companies: An Analysis of RED Production and Warp Films’
(2016); Presence, 'Organising counter-cultures: challenges of structure, organisation and
sustainability in the Independent Filmmakers Association and the Radical Film Network' (2020);
Spicer, ‘A Regional Company? RED Production and the Cultural Politics of Place’ (2020).




                                                                                            Page 17
