Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Sheffield


 Unit of Assessment: A-04 Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


The Department of Psychology (36 academics, 14 research staff and 123 research students) has
enhanced its research leadership, guided by the two-strand strategy set out in REF2014. First,
we continued to develop capacity within research groups whilst enhancing interdisciplinary
collaboration because we recognise that many challenges require input from multiple disciplinary
perspectives. To this end we refocused our groups around refreshed themes: (1) Neuroscience
and Cognition, (2) Interventions for Psychological Health, (3) Learning and Development Across
the Lifespan, and (4) Social and Behavioural Change, with many researchers contributing to
multiple themes. These priorities guided 16 new hires, building on our established strengths, with
several strategic appointments stimulating thematic collaboration. For example, Bentall’s
appointment linked researchers across three themes by incorporating developmental and social
approaches into our mental health research. We have positioned ourselves to lead national and
international interdisciplinary collaborative initiatives in diverse fields including crisis response,
personalised medicine, sustainability, and robotics. Future strategy will continue to promote
interdisciplinary research; we are capitalising on the University’s recent strategic investment in
interdisciplinary flagship institutes (see REF5a) that focus collaboration between existing
institutional strengths in neuroscience and healthy ageing.

Thematic re-alignment has supported the second strand of our strategy: to realise the societal
relevance of our research whilst maintaining the quality of fundamental science. Our
commitment to excellent fundamental science has placed us at the forefront of national and
international efforts to promote and adopt open science practices. Our agile responsiveness to
shifting societal priorities is evidenced by our rapid response to the COVID-19 pandemic:
researchers from three themes lead an ESRC-funded multi-institution mixed-methods project that
began data collection on the day that the first UK lockdown started, and produced governmental
reports within weeks. Other examples of societal relevance include work addressing plastic re-use
and recycling, neurovascular coupling in degenerative diseases, and social inequalities in cognitive
and language development. We are responding to funder priorities by extending our focus on
societal relevance to the needs of low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). Translation from
societal relevance to public benefit is facilitated by working closely with diverse stakeholders
throughout the research process. We plan to continue to address societal issues including
cognitive decline in older adulthood and reducing alcohol-related harm, whilst maintaining our
capacity to respond to emerging challenges and to capitalise on developing opportunities such as
the growing availability of “big data” resources.

The effectiveness of our strategy is evidenced by publication of >1,100 papers (>166 papers per
year, 43% higher than REF2014), that have received >13,000 citations (mean=11.75, Web of
Science, 2020) and the award of 113 PhDs (16 per year). These outcomes have been supported
by total research income of £10.2M including fellowships funded by the British Academy, EPSRC,
ESRC, Royal Society and Wellcome. Our staff have received prestigious external recognition from
the British Psychological Society (BPS), British Academy, and the International Society for
Psychotherapy Research. Our research has had demonstrable real-world impact across all
research themes, with particularly important influences on clinical practice including the treatment
of eating disorders and outcome assessment in routine therapy. We have planned for the future by

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
focussing appointments on internationally recognised early career researchers (ECRs) with
demonstrable leadership potential. Sustainability is demonstrated by a number of recent grant
successes including seven major ESRC awards in 2019 and 2020 (total £2.22M).

1.1 Research themes

The Neuroscience and Cognition theme (eight staff, including one professor and one ECR)
represents a refocusing of our systems and computational neuroscience groups. Following senior
retirements, we maintained thematic strength by appointing Schmidt who bolsters links between
computational and systems researchers addressing action control, and Saal who strengthens
sensory computational modelling capacity. Embodying our approach to interdisciplinary
collaboration, we directed the Sheffield Robotics research centre (>100 researchers from
science, engineering, public health, social sciences, and the arts) from inception (2011) until 2017
with Wilson continuing to represent us on the leadership executive. As planned in 2014, Sheffield
Robotics opened new laboratory space (750m2) in 2015 from a £3M University investment. This
supports access to state-of-the-art resources such as the iCub humanoid robot that enables our
computational neuroscientists to model human brain functioning on neurorobotic platforms, with
novel artificial intelligence applications (e.g., Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B:
Biological Sciences). Wet lab neuroscience capacity has been increased by adding in vivo two
photon microscopy imaging (targeted in REF2014). In combination with existing technologies
(see Section 3), we can now conduct preclinical studies spanning single cell to whole brain
neuroimaging.

Fundamental advances include computational models of tactile sensation (Science Translational
Medicine, Current Biology, PNAS, eLife), neurovascular coupling (J Neuroscience, Cerebral
Cortex), and the role of dopamine in action control (Neuron, Nature Neuroscience, PLOS Biology).
Applications to societal challenges include cell transplantation and gene therapy methods to
treat retinal degeneration (PNAS, Molecular Therapy), and delineating the role of neurovascular
coupling in epilepsy (Neuroimage, Epilepsia), Alzheimer’s (J Cerebral Blood Flow and Metabolism,
J Alzheimer’s Disease), and Parkinson’s diseases (eLife, Nature Scientific Reports). We also
developed natural tactile sensations for neuroprosthetic devices (Neuropsychologia) and improved
responses to rare traffic events in autonomous vehicles (IEEE Transactions).

Looking forward, participation in University-funded multidisciplinary research groupings, such as
continued involvement in Sheffield Robotics, will stimulate interdisciplinary collaborations
addressing fundamental and applied research questions. To this end we shaped the flagship
Neuroscience Institute (launched 2019), which focuses the expertise of over 100 translational,
sensory, developmental and systems neuroscience researchers from across the engineering,
science and medical faculties to advance prevention and treatment of neurological, sensory and
developmental disorders. Berwick and Martin were instrumental in its inception and both are board
members; Martin leads imaging technology. Sensory neuroscience is one of three pillars of the
institute, therefore our participation achieves our REF2014 ambition to develop a
multidisciplinary sensory neuroscience centre. The Neuroscience Institute will support our
future goals including identifying neurovascular biomarkers of early neurodegeneration and
developing novel therapeutics for Alzheimer’s disease.

The Social and Behaviour Change theme (10 staff, including three professors and two ECRs)
develops our long-standing strengths in theoretical models of behaviour change and their
application to societal challenges. Fundamental research has identified the importance of
monitoring for goal attainment (Psychological Bulletin), the influence of self-compassion on health
behaviours (Health Psychology) and demonstrated that mere measurement of intentions influences


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
behaviour (Personality and Social Psychology Review). With more immediate societal relevance,
substantial work focusses on specific health behaviours, such as the determinants and
modification of food and alcohol intake (e.g., Health Psychology Review, J Consulting and Clinical
Psychology). Appointments of Buckland, Field, Sirois and Webster have refreshed our health
psychology capacity, and Iyer provides new links to political science. Interdisciplinary capacity
was strengthened with the appointment of Debowska, whose expertise in criminology and
involvement in GCRF-funded research on interventions to reduce intimate partner violence in the
Caribbean (Computers in Human Behaviour) has expanded the global societal relevance of work in
this theme. Our interdisciplinary commitment supports application of health psychology
approaches to clinical issues including psychosis (Clinical Psychology Review) and suicidal
ideation (Brit J Psychiatry). Going forward, Buckland’s work on weight management (e.g., J
Nutrition) will link with our clinical expertise in eating disorders. Future plans, supported by three
recent ESRC awards, are to continue fundamental research with societal relevance, including: a
big-data approach to linkages between wide-ranging health behaviours; self-compassion and
behaviour change; and the influence of political humour on attitudes and behaviour.

Interdisciplinary research within this theme is supported by our involvement in University
initiatives including the cross-faculty Grantham Centre for Sustainable Futures (see REF5a), which
unites academia, business, and policy. We contributed to two recent ~£1M UKRI projects (leading
on one) to re-think plastic use, in collaboration with polymer chemists, linguists, geographers and
engineers. Other members have taken leading roles in interdisciplinary applied projects. For
example, Field conducts research to reduce alcohol-related harm in collaboration with researchers
in the School of Health and Related Research, including digital interventions (funded by Alcohol
Change UK and NIHR), and serving size “nudges” (Addiction). Norman works with clinical
neurologists on an NIHR Programme grant developing interventions to support high calorie diets
for motor neurone disease. Future interdisciplinary opportunities will be provided by the flagship
Healthy Lifespan Institute (launched 2019, Webb leads the Behaviour Change theme) that
combines expertise from >130 researchers from disciplines including social policy, cardiovascular
biology and epidemiology to tackle multimorbidity in ageing.

The Learning and Development Across the Lifespan theme (10 staff, including two professors
and two ECRs) expands the focus of our longstanding developmental psychology group. The
Sheffield Autism Research Lab led by Milne and Freeth continues to provide an interdisciplinary
hub addressing neurodevelopmental disorders from fundamental and applied perspectives. This
is supported by our human cognitive neuroscience facilities that have been refreshed with new
EEG and eye-tracking systems housed in space accessible to neurodivergent populations.
Collaborators include neuroscientists to parse the heterogeneity in neural functioning in autism (J
Abnormal Psychology), mathematicians to model eye-tracking in social situations (J Abnormal
Psychology), geneticists to study rare genetic conditions, such as Sotos and Silver-Russel
syndromes (J Neuropsychology; J Abnormal Psychology) and clinicians to understanding the lived
experience of neurodevelopmental conditions (Psychological Medicine).

Another important focus in this theme is inequalities in social and cognitive development which has
prompted both fundamental research to characterise social gradients (Brit J Psychiatry, Clinical
Psychology Review) and applied work to test interventions to reduce inequalities in language (J
Child Psychology and Psychiatry) and executive function (Child Development) development.
Ongoing work is developing interventions to prevent communicative delays in hearing-impaired
infants. Future plans include intervention development to reduce educational inequalities,
supported by an ESRC New Investigator award to new appointee Blakey. We will also address
global inequalities, as exemplified by Matthews’ recent GCRF award to promote language
development in Kenya and Zambia.

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The REF2014 aim to extend neurocognitive work to real-world skill learning has been
achieved, with an expanded focus to incorporate adult development. This has involved
fundamental work modelling the neural underpinnings of skilled cognition using EEG
(Neuroimage) and identifying trajectories of skill development in longitudinal datasets regarding
computer gaming (Psychological Science) and learning to drive (Accident Analysis and
Prevention). Vaci’s appointment brings methodological expertise and innovation in Bayesian
modelling (Behavior Research Methods), applications of which include disentangling contributions
from intelligence, practice and ageing (PNAS; Psychology & Ageing) and develops our capacity for
data science. Recent work with societal relevance models trajectories of cognitive decline to
identify early risk factors for dementia, and evaluate treatments (Brit J Psychiatry). New appointee
Von Bastian, supported by recent ESRC and Mercator Fellowship funding strengthens capacity to
rigorously evaluate interventions to develop and protect cognitive abilities through older adulthood,
such as bilingualism (JEP General) and working memory training (Intelligence; JEP General).

The Interventions for Psychological Health theme (eight staff, including four professors)
continues Sheffield’s research leadership in applied clinical psychology. Work aims to understand
and improve the effectiveness of routinely delivered psychological therapies, capitalising on the
clinical and service delivery perspectives offered by researcher-practitioner roles. For example,
recent work showed that counselling is as effective as CBT in treating depression (BMC
Psychiatry) and ongoing NIHR-funded work develops telephone-delivered therapy. New
appointees Bentall and Huddy have expanded expertise to include psychosis addressing its
fundamental nature (Schizophrenia Bulletin) and evaluating treatment approaches (Lancet
Psychiatry). Future NIHR supported work will utilise neuroimaging to identify trauma-related
mechanisms underpinning effective treatment of psychosis.

This theme promotes interdisciplinarity, focussing the skills of psychologists, health service
researchers and statisticians. The longstanding Centre for Psychological Services Research
recently became the Psychotherapy Evaluation and Research Lab at Sheffield (PEARLS) led by
Delgadillo (appointed as successor to Barkham); Delgadillo summarised PEARLS’s developing
pathway towards precision mental health care (JAMA Psychiatry). This runs through fundamental
prognostic epidemiology using big data, such as the national Increasing Access to Psychological
Therapies (IAPT) evaluation datasets; identification of risks for poor outcomes in therapies for
anxiety and depression (Brit J Psychiatry); developing decision tools to profile individual
differences in treatment response (Behavior Research and Therapy, J Consulting and Clinical
Psychology: this was one of the top 10 most downloaded articles across all APA journals in 2020);
and field testing data-driven approaches to therapy modifications (Lancet Psychiatry) and e-triage
(Psychotherapy & Psychosomatics). Future work will continue to develop approaches to service
evaluation and improvement, including personalised medicine, while maintaining capacity to
respond to developing mental health priorities including those related to COVID-19.

Research addressing psychological service delivery has natural societal relevance. Our work
addressing routine assessment of therapeutic outcomes, the treatment of eating disorders and
psychological issues in managing skin conditions has been tailored for real-world benefit through
our impact strategy (described below) and forms our case studies. We continue to develop these
topics with an international emphasis. For example, Barkham’s Clinical Outcomes in Routine
Evaluation measure is used extensively in Europe and increasingly globally, including in China and
South America. We have begun evaluating eating disorder therapies across Europe, North and
South America, Asia and Australia.




                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Responsiveness to emerging priorities

Our strategy to promote interdisciplinary collaborative research with societal relevance
provides capacity for rapid responsiveness to emerging priorities. This is exemplified by work
described above on social inequalities, environmental sustainability and precision mental health
care. Webster’s appointment (from KCL’s Health Protection Research Unit in Emergency
Preparedness) developed our capacity here; she published influential and timely work on the
COVID-19 pandemic (Public Health) including the psychological impact of quarantine (Lancet,
>1,000 citations, Altmetrics >6,000). Similarly, the success of our COVID-19 Psychological
Research Consortium (Bentall, Gibson-Miller and Levita) that delivered governmental reports on
the impact of lockdown within weeks of its announcement, illustrates our capacity for rapid
response, adoption of open science practices, and engagement with key stakeholders and the
media (Figure 1). Other pandemic work has included studies of impacts on food intake (Appetite),
vaccine resistance (Nature Communications), and mental health in the UK (Psychosomatic
Medicine) and Poland (Psychological Medicine).




1.2 Impact strategy

Underlying our focus on societal relevance is a longstanding commitment to research for public
benefit. This impact culture dates back to our MRC/ESRC Social and Applied Psychology Unit,
which we hosted from 1968 until 1994. As detailed below, our impact strategy feeds this culture by
working with key stakeholders through the research process to co-design projects, co-produce
research outputs and co-disseminate results to ensure they reach key audiences to turn
research into societal benefit. To achieve these aims we support staff to maximise interactions with
key stakeholders such as policymakers, service providers and users (e.g., patient and public
involvement panels, charities). Mechanisms of support include the University’s knowledge
exchange (KE) team which assists with identifying and liaising with non-academic collaborators as
well as offering schemes to build impact partnerships (including funded impact sabbaticals; see
sections 2 and 4). Our case studies illustrate the application of this approach to clinical service
users in terms of assessing the outcomes of treatment (Therapy Management), developing brief
interventions for eating disorders (Eating Disorders) and developing therapies to address the

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
psychological impact of skin conditions (Appearance Distress). We apply this approach across all
of our research themes.

Co-design: During project formulation, the departmental Director of Impact and University KE
team support identification and involvement of key stakeholders to design research that addresses
the issues that their organisations face during real-world practice. We invest to develop strong
relationships, for instance by supporting impact-focussed sabbaticals. For example, Buckland
works with Slimming World to evaluate and inform their weight management programmes,
Matthews works with the National Deaf Children’s Society to aid communication in hearing
impaired babies and toddlers, and Saal works with SensArs, a commercial neuroprosthetics
manufacturer to develop computational models of touch sensation. This approach successfully
supported our case studies: Thompson identified the need for treatments focussing on the
psychological aspects of skin conditions through advisory roles with skin charities including the
International Vitiligo Foundation and Alopecia UK. Waller’s positions on the NICE eating disorders
committee and quality standards group enabled him to identify that policymakers needed brief
interventions for eating disorders, inspiring his research.

Co-production: We develop stakeholder engagement during the research process to ensure we
co-produce outputs that maximise relevance to their agendas. This includes consultation with
steering groups representing non-academic stakeholders, practitioners and service users. For
example, the Eating Disorders case study was supported by input from 75 service users when
developing items for the Recovering Quality of Life measure (Brit J Psychiatry), ensuring its
acceptability. Waller enhanced the impact of his brief eating disorders interventions by tailoring
practical and financial aspects of therapy for widespread UK delivery through interactions with the
IAPT programme leads, Public Health England, and the NHS.

Co-dissemination: Following research completion, we work with stakeholders to ensure
dissemination reaches key audiences to enhance impact. This includes events aimed at non-
academic audiences (e.g., Transport Research Laboratory, The Nuffield Foundation), keynote
presentations at policy- and practitioner-orientated conferences (e.g., Royal Society for the
Prevention of Accidents) and training for practitioners. The latter has been particularly relevant to
our case studies; Thompson trained more than 300 NHS/IAPT Psychological Wellbeing
Practitioners and provided over 30 training sessions to dermatology specialists on mitigating the
psychological impact of skin conditions. Waller trained over 750 clinicians in more than 30 national
(e.g., Maudsley Hospital) and 11 international (e.g., Harvard/Massachusetts General) settings to
implement his brief CBT for eating disorders. Section 4 details further examples of dissemination to
stakeholders and the public.

1.3 Open science and research integrity

We made important contributions to global efforts to broaden the adoption of open science
practices and improve replicability. We contributed to research showing that different teams can
reach different conclusions when analysing the same dataset, a finding with international impact
(Advances in Methods and Practices in Psychological Science; >250 citations, Altmetrics >2,400).
We also value the publication of null results, particularly where studies follow Open Science
principles of pre-registration and data-sharing and are adequately powered. Our submitted outputs
include demonstrations that working memory training does not generalise beyond the training task
(JEP General), that ego-depletion is unreliable (PLOS One), and that online inhibition training does
not reduce problem drinking (JCCP). Von Bastian leads the development and global distribution of
free open-source experimental software (www.tatool-web.com) which supports replicability by
sharing stimuli and materials. Stafford is the University Research Practice lead, representing us at


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the UK Reproducibility Network that promotes Open Science across disciplines; he co-founded the
Sheffield Reproducibility Network which organises University-wide reproducibility events. As our
Departmental Open Science lead, von Bastian co-ordinates information sharing including our
online hub for open science materials, and provides guidance on adopting open science practices
through seminars and training sessions.

Positive outcomes arising from our embrace of Open Science were demonstrated in a 2019 staff
and PGR survey that highlighted widespread engagement with open science practices. For
example, >50% of staff reported making data openly accessible, and 60% had preregistered
hypotheses. This survey also captured demand for training such as open software (e.g. R) and
Bayesian analyses to maximise the reliability of findings, with sessions scheduled for 2021. We
also incorporated coverage of open science practices and contemporary research integrity issues
into our undergraduate and postgraduate research training. Our policy (introduced January 2016)
to make all journal papers available open access has meant that more than 70% of articles
published since 2014 are openly accessible via green or gold routes (the majority of the remainder
will become open access following embargo). We publish manuscripts on preprint archives
particularly when rapid dissemination is important, as illustrated in our COVID-19 work.

The University supports a culture of research integrity providing resources on authorship and
conflicts of interest as well as an open whistleblowing procedure (see REF5a). We enhance this
with departmental seminars on topics such as responsible use of metrics. The Department has a
Research Ethics Committee and has been represented on the University Research Governance
sub-committee. We led development of University guidelines addressing ethical assessment of
human interventional research, and making research data openly accessible. We also developed
specific guidance on issues raised in our core research including deception, incentives, and
collecting self-report and neuroimaging data from vulnerable populations. We implement University
policies requiring all staff and PGR students to complete ethics training, and for PGR students to
complete a data management plan in their first year. Maintaining strong integrity is a key
foundation underpinning our aims to conduct impactful research that is transparent and replicable.




 2. People


We invest in our staff to deliver our research strategy. Accordingly, all Category A Eligible staff
have been submitted. All hold permanent contracts or will move to them following externally-
funded fellowships. Our eight clinical academics are located on-site and are well-integrated
into our research culture with collaboration common, as illustrated by our COVID-19 research
consortium (see section 1).

2.1 Staffing and recruitment policy

Our recruitment policy is guided by our research strategy to develop capacity around focused
themes whilst enhancing interdisciplinary collaboration. Sixteen appointments since 2014 have
maintained and enhanced strengths within themes, with several straddling multiple themes to
foster synergies. For example, Vaci’s research straddles the Neuroscience and Cognition, and
Learning and Development across the Lifespan themes, whereas Webster bridges the
Interventions for Psychological Health, and Social and Behaviour Change themes. We also
targeted staff with interdisciplinary backgrounds to support our objective to stimulate wider
collaboration: Iyer’s research addressing social mobility and integration of migrants created links



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
across social sciences; other new appointments created links with community health, epidemiology
(Sirois), public health and engineering (Field).

Our new appointments were selected for outstanding research potential so they could
contribute to our strategic objective to realise the societal relevance of our research whilst
maintaining the quality of fundamental science. Their potential has been demonstrated by their
successes which include publishing in respected journals (e.g., PNAS, Lancet Psychiatry, Journal
of Neuroscience, JEP: General), and winning substantial research funding (European Commission,
ESRC, EPSRC, GCRF, Wellcome; total apportioned >£1.7M). They will contribute to our societal
relevance agenda, for example Blakey’s ESRC New Investigator Grant (commencing 2021) will
deliver a blueprint for a novel theoretically informed intervention to narrow inequalities in cognitive
development.

To develop a sustainable research structure, we focused on appointments at lecturer level
(12 hires) and prioritised candidates with leadership potential. For example, Schmidt
previously led a research group in Freiburg, and Delgadillo was appointed to provide leadership in
clinical psychology. We supplemented this approach with strategic senior appointments (two
readers and two professors) and three internal professorial promotions to maintain
leadership balance in the shorter term following nine senior retirements. Of the senior
appointments, Bentall provided immediate leadership across the Department as exemplified in our
COVID-19 response, whereas Iyer, Sirois and Field demonstrated leadership potential by holding
senior roles at previous institutions.

Independent research fellows form an important component of our staffing strategy. We hosted
fellows supported by ESRC Future Leaders (£230k), the Royal Society (£281k), EPSRC (£54k),
and the Wellcome Henry Dale (£1.2M) schemes, with an external researcher to commence in 2021
funded by an ESRC New Investigator Grant (£186k). Martin and Howarth benefited from Faculty
policy to provide permanent contracts to substantial fellowship holders. We aim to grow research
capacity and increase diversity by proactively targeting external applicants, ensuring inclusivity for
candidates with protected characteristics, and pairing them with experienced mentors to support
their fellowship applications.

2.2 Staff development, reward, and support for ECRs

Our ability to attract and retain staff is supported by Sheffield’s Academic Career Pathways
framework which provides flexible promotion routes through research, impact and knowledge
exchange (see REF5a). Staff undertake an annual performance review where they receive
feedback, agree SMART objectives, and identify training needs. A departmental workload
allocation model ensures a minimum 20% protected time for research and scholarship, which is
increased in line with funded investigator time and PGR supervision (2020 average = 36%).
Probationary staff have additional protected research time: 60%, 40% and 30% in years one,
two and three respectively.

We provide wide-ranging staff development opportunities, tailored to experience, that enables
staff to fulfil their potential, chiming with the three pillars of the Concordat to Support the Career
Development of Researchers. Incoming staff receive a PhD scholarship and start-up funds to
support preliminary research and conference attendance. Probationers have a departmental
mentor, and staff are encouraged to utilise the University ‘Think Ahead’ mentoring scheme (see
REF5a). We provide structured support for grant applications, including regular internal seminars
on grant writing and funding mechanisms and a supportive internal review process. We encourage
ECRs to take appropriate leadership roles to support professional development. For example,
lecturers have taken leadership roles in Sheffield Robotics (Wilson), research group leadership

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(Wilson, Levita), research ethics (Schmidt, Gibson-Miller), and Delgadillo was appointed Research
Director at an NHS Centre for Psychological Research. Our research committee membership
includes a named ECR.

We support postdoctoral researchers’ career development by providing the same University
and departmental induction as academic staff alongside project-specific skills training (e.g.
psychophysiological techniques). They then access a development programme to fit their career
track, including the ‘Think Ahead’ mentoring scheme. We balance research, teaching and
supervision experience and transferable skills in order to inculcate research independence. Our
staff (Martin, Wilson) led University initiatives to champion the professional development of
postdocs and ECRs.

All staff (including part-time) can apply for a semester-long research sabbatical every four
years. Notable outcomes of 11 sabbaticals since 2014 include securing multiple UKRI awards
(Webb), and refocussing research on a new topic (Freeth: rare developmental disorders, charity
funded; output in J Abnormal Psychology). We support staff applications for fellowships that fund
research leave, with two British Academy Mid-Career Fellowships awarded (Matthews and Milne).
Von Bastian was awarded the Mercator Fellowship in 2020 by a consortium of 25 German
universities for a programme of multitasking research, supporting several international visits
including a three-month sabbatical at Aachen University.

As described in section 1, we enable staff to maximise impact by working closely with non-
academic partners through project formulation, execution, and dissemination. Impact and
knowledge exchange-focussed sabbaticals are important to this approach. Thompson spent a
department-funded sabbatical developing psychological interventions for skin conditions,
contributing to his impact case study. Other staff benefited from University-funded impact
sabbaticals: Norman worked with the Haringey Advisory Group on Alcohol to increase engagement
with their ‘Don’t Bottle It Up’ online intervention. Rowse worked with Crohn’s and Colitis UK to
develop inflammatory bowel disease treatment guidelines. Additionally, flexible workload allocation
allows staff time to develop impact. For example, Waller and Thompson had capacity to train
clinicians to deliver the therapies they had devised. We also support staff to work flexibly with other
organisations. Delgadillo has a 0.4 FTE NHS-funded role as Director of an NHS Centre for
Psychological Research, providing a new route from research to public benefit.

The effectiveness of our support mechanisms is demonstrated by staff outcomes. Of the 16
staff who completed probation since 2014, all moved to open-ended contracts, and Saal and
Delgadillo were promoted to Senior Lecturer. Successes for six ECRs identified in REF2014
include publications in prestigious journals including Personality and Social Psychology Review,
Biological Psychiatry, and PNAS. Across all 36 Category A staff, there have been 14 promotions to
senior lecturer or reader (three of whom were ECRs in REF2014), and three to professor (personal
chairs), since 2014. The effectiveness of our staff development is also demonstrated by prestigious
destinations for staff moving on, including Heads of Department (Durham and Edge Hill),
professors of Psychology (University of North Carolina, Cardiff University) and independent
research positions (Sheffield Hallam, Warsaw). Former postdocs hold permanent academic
positions in the UK (including Manchester, Sheffield, and Warwick) and overseas (e.g., Maastricht).
Other postdocs have been successful in non-academic positions, including CEO of Prolific, the
online research participant recruitment company.

2.3 Research students

Maintaining a vibrant and productive PGR community is central to our research strategy.
We have one of the largest cohorts of research students in the Russell Group, with 72 PhD

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
students and 51 Doctorate in Clinical Psychology (D Clin Psy) trainees currently registered. All
Category A staff are either currently supervising PhD students, have supervised students to
completion since 2014, or (in the case of some recent appointees) will soon recruit their first PhD
students on University-funded studentships.

PGR recruitment is supported by external advertisements that integrate prospective candidates
into our thematic priorities; they are then supported to apply to appropriate funding schemes.
Commensurate with our strategy to promote interdisciplinary research and maximise societal
relevance, we target competitions run by the ESRC White Rose Doctoral Training Partnership
(DTP) (comprising seven universities including Sheffield, Leeds, and York) that promotes
interdisciplinary work across the social sciences (13 studentships secured since 2014). In addition
to other Doctoral Training Centres in Sheffield (BBSRC, MRC, EPSRC, Wellcome) we have
secured studentship funding from sources including Horizon 2020, and the Battelle Memorial
Institute. We also capitalised on University interdisciplinary initiatives, securing studentships from
the Grantham Centre for Sustainable Futures, Healthy Lifespan Institute, and other cross-
disciplinary studentship networks. Our strategic aim to focus on societal relevance has attracted
studentship funding from non-academic partners including Road Safety GB, Sheffield City Council,
and Alcohol Change UK.

We secured 14 studentships via internal University competitions and the faculty funded a further 20
teaching studentships. Another 13 PhD students were funded by the South-East European
Research Centre via City College in Greece, an international faculty of the University. We have
grown overseas student numbers (20% of new registrants in 2014 increasing to >60% in 2019 and
2020) supported by the governments of Mexico (11 studentships), Turkey (10), Saudi Arabia (4),
Malaysia (3), and others. Equality and diversity is an important consideration for PGR
recruitment: 13.5% of registrants were part-time and 34% identified as Black, Asian and minority
ethnic (BAME, PRES, 2019). Our EDI Director sits on an ESRC working group to increase British
BAME PGR representation.

Supervising staff complete PGR supervision training (mandatory from 2021). Our PhD students
benefit from the University Doctoral Development Programme and give oral (Year 1 and 3) and
poster presentations (Year 2) at student-led conferences. They complete an annual training needs
analysis. Students are encouraged to identify appropriate internal (e.g., MSc modules) and
external training courses (e.g., International Statistical Genetics Workshop, Colorado) that can be
funded by the (minimum) £1,500 per annum research training support grant available to all,
regardless of funding source.

Progress monitoring procedures are robust and supportive: formal supervision meetings are
recorded online and monitored by PGR administrators who identify additional support
requirements. Supervisors of full-time students complete an interim progress report after six
months and students complete their formal confirmation review after 9-12 months (99% of
registrants progressed to PhD; 1% re-registered for MPhil). In order to foster research
independence, develop transferable skills and facilitate networking our PhD students attend our
external and internal seminar programmes. The latter include ad-hoc training sessions in skills
such as fellowship applications, peer review, and open science practices. The University has
adopted UKRI sick leave policies for internally funded students, and also provides maternity grants
for those without other income. We encourage a healthy approach to holiday leave, making
entitlement clear to students and supervisors.

The success of our approach and the vibrancy of the postgraduate training environment is
evidenced by the award of 113 PhDs (90% with minor or no corrections) and 123 D Clin Psy
degrees during the assessment period. Excluding withdrawals (<5%), 94% of PhD students

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
submitted their thesis within their time limit. Research students contributed substantially to our
research output, co-authoring ~200 publications, including first-author publications in Journal of
Neuroscience, British Journal of Psychiatry, Clinical Psychology Review, Pediatrics, and
Developmental Science. Moreover, several PhD students published independently from their
supervisors, including an influential paper on autonomous sensory meridian response in PLOS
One (>70 citations), with others in Multisensory Research and Journal of Sleep Research. Our
PGRs won prestigious prizes including the BPS Developmental Section’s Neil O’Connor award, the
International Society for Autism Research’s Young Investigator Prize and the Association of
Clinical Psychologists’ prize for best clinical doctorate publication. In addition, they organised and
delivered training for a national advanced quantitative methods network, and organised national
conferences (ESRC DTP, PSYPAG). Several have written about their own and others’ research for
websites including the Conversation and PsychReg.

PhD graduates’ career destinations include research (42%, including Harvard Medical School,
UCLA, University of Sydney), tenured academic positions (37%, including Manchester and
Sheffield, and overseas including Columbia, Italy, Kuwait, and Malaysia), healthcare (5%, including
NIHR Children and Young People MedTech Co-operative), and other industries (15%, for example
consultancy in medical technology). Most D Clin Psy graduates took clinical posts.

2.4 Equality, diversity, and inclusion (EDI)

Our staffing profile is 44% female, 6% BAME, and 3% have a declared disability. We retained our
Bronze Athena SWAN award in 2017 and our departmental EDI Director is leading priority actions
towards a Silver award in 2021. For example, we proactively encourage female and BAME
applicants for academic posts and external fellowships by working with HR to develop
inclusive language for advertisements, and we proactively solicit applications from
excellent staff with protected characteristics. All selection and promotion panel members
undertake unconscious bias training and chairs undertake specialised training on appropriate
decision-making. Our Department Executive is 60% female and 10% BAME. The EDI Director sits
on the department executive and on the research, REF, and PGR committees and on academic
selection committees. An equality impact assessment is a standing agenda item for all
departmental committees.

There were equal numbers of males and females in our 16 new appointments, and five of 11
sabbaticals were taken by female staff. Women hold leadership roles, including Milne as Head of
Department, and Hardy as longstanding Director of the Clinical Psychology Unit. We encourage all
staff to discuss pathways to promotion during their annual appraisal meetings so that we do not
rely on individuals to put themselves forward. This has resulted in equivalent success rates for
male and female promotion applications since 2014.

All staff benefit from protected research time and at least £500 annual research support funding for
research visits, conferences, and research pump-priming. The Academic Career Pathways
framework includes proportionately reduced expectations for part-time staff and recognises
career breaks including maternity and sickness leave. We support staff with caring
responsibilities by holding core meetings and events between 10am-2pm and by supporting
flexible working arrangements. We encourage job-sharing of administrative roles in order to
encourage applications from part-time staff (19% of staff); our departmental ethics committee is co-
chaired by two staff, one of whom works part-time. Our staff access University support including
Wellbeing Advocates and Mental Health First Aid to which several of our staff and PGRs actively
contribute. We have introduced or contributed to University-wide campaigns to promote EDI. For
instance, Milne introduced an initiative to tailor the environment for people who experience sensory


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
overload, as part of a broader programme to increase inclusivity for neurodiverse staff and
students.

University initiatives such as the Women Academic Returner’s Programme support staff
returning from parental leave with £10k research funding and 45% protected research time to
facilitate restarting research activity. Seven Psychology staff benefited, enabling them to pay for
research assistance to support grant applications.

EDI was prominent in the construction of our REF submission as specified by the University’s
Code of Practice. All REF Committee members undertook REF-specific EDI training which
included recognising and countering implicit bias. Outputs were selected on the bias of ranked
quality. There were 31 identically scored outputs from which 15 were required. Following review,
the inclusion rate was 42% for papers attributed to female authors and 50% for
papers attributed to males. The University’s equality impact assessment found no bias in our
output scoring and attribution or in our independent researcher decision-making.

The institutional process for disclosing equality-related circumstances was highlighted to staff. The
University is clear that there will be no detriment to staff regarding classification as an independent
researcher or output submission count in recruitment, review, or promotion.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


3.1 Income

Our total research income was £10.24M with key contributions from the research councils (41%),
UK charities (30%), and the European Commission (14%). ESRC is strategically important
because their emphasis on societal relevance and their priorities for mental health and
innovations in social and health care are closely aligned with our own strategy and thematic
strengths. Capitalising on departmental and University internal review processes specific to ESRC
applications we have grown our ESRC awards from an average of £167k per year (2013-2018) to
£753k per year (2019-2020). Seven recent ESRC awards, including two New Investigator Grants
(total £2.22M) starting in 2019 or later will address (1) self-compassion in behaviour change, (2)
political humour, (3) psychological impacts of the pandemic, (4) delineating the associations
between multiple health behaviours, (5) social inequalities in school readiness, (6) cognitive
training across the lifespan, and (7) distractor interference in autism. Therefore, ESRC funding
will underpin the future success of our research with societal relevance.

Our strategy of promoting interdisciplinary collaboration has been supported by substantial
funding for large multi-disciplinary projects. For example, we manage £340k from the James-
McDonnell Foundation in collaboration with neurobiologists, and £285k from NIHR in collaborations
with neurologists and health service researchers addressing diet (Clinical Neurology) and
treatment (European Respiratory Journal) in motor neurone disease. A recent EPSRC award
(£219k) partners with Toshiba to investigate how synthetic ‘Argubots’ can improve people’s
understanding of complex debates. Going forward, our participation in the University’s flagship
institutes and continued role in Sheffield Robotics will stimulate future collaborative interdisciplinary
funding opportunities.

Other major grants have supported our focus on high-quality fundamental science that
underpins research with societal relevance. Within neuroscience, UKRI funding has supported
work addressing neurovascular coupling (MRC, £421k, Cerebral Cortex); other substantial
neuroscience projects (>£2.15M) have been supported by health focussed charities including

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Wellcome (£1.2M), Alzheimer’s Research UK, British Heart Foundation, and Epilepsy Research
UK. Other charitable funding has supported work on social inequalities in social and cognitive
development (two Nuffield awards, £243k, Child Development), developing behavioural
interventions for inflammatory bowel disease (Crohn’s and Colitis UK, £111k) and using typing
errors to diagnose Parkinson’s Disease (Michael J Fox Foundation, £61k, Scientific Reports).
NIHR funding has provided important support for our clinical research, for example enhancing
telephone-delivered therapy (£282k). Small charitable grants have supported high impact
publications as exemplified by an £8k award from the Child Growth Foundation to investigate
cognition in Silver-Russell Syndrome (J Abnormal Psychology). Our focus on societal relevance
means that charity funding will remain important to future funding strategy.

The Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) supports our aim to extend our research with
societal relevance to the priorities of LMICs. Initial successes include projects that use
computer games to reduce gender-based violence in the Caribbean (£55k; Computers in Human
Behavior), and a 2020 award (£33k) to use mealtimes to encourage language development in
Zambia and Kenya. To develop future projects we capitalised on the University’s Research
England GCRF pump-prime funding to build networks in LMICs including China, The Gambia,
Ghana, and Uganda. Future strategy will develop our activity in this space, leveraging these
newly formed networks.

European funding remains important; Horizon 2020 is well suited to enhancing our
interdisciplinary research. Awards have supported European collaboration for (1) our
computational neuroscientists with computer scientists, systems engineers and roboticists in
bioinspired robotics in the Human Brain Project (£739k) leading to several outputs (e.g. J
Neuroscience); (2) in neural coding of touch for prosthetics and robotics (£249k) and (3) in the
Dreams4Cars project (£369k). Dreams4Cars implements the general hypothesis of adaptive
human action selection in software controlling autonomous vehicles, to guide driving in road
situations of high crash risk (several publications in engineering journals). Finally, (4) a 2019 Marie-
Curie Research and Innovation Staff Exchange consortium (€92k to Sheffield) supports staff
exchanges with European partners to address bioinspired robot navigation, and will develop new
international collaborations for future projects.

The funding landscape could change considerably following the pandemic and Brexit, however
recent substantial awards from a range of funders will ensure our resilience in the medium-term.
We have also positioned ourselves for rapid and flexible response to changing priorities and
opportunities, as demonstrated by our reaction to the call for COVID-19 research (£260k ESRC).
Therefore, we are well placed to leverage upcoming opportunities from diverse funding bodies to
support our research strategy.

3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

Our research is supported by specialised state-of-the-art research facilities across four sites.
As planned in REF2014, our computational neuroscientists moved into the £3M newly built
Sheffield Robotics facility. This provides access to 200m2 of robotics laboratory space, a 50m2
workshop and a 20m2 human-robot interaction lab. Our physical location in Sheffield Robotics
provides multidisciplinary collaborative opportunities with computer scientists, roboticists,
sociologists and education specialists and access to £2M of state-of-the-art robotics platforms.
These include the iCub humanoid and several biomimetic social robots that underpin our embodied
computational neuroscience modelling. Sheffield Robotics also houses a 60m2 motion capture and
virtual reality lab with a 12-camera VICON system that is co-directed by Wilson and Saal (funded
by an EPSRC ECT Capital Enhancement Programme award) and also provides access to virtual


                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and augmented reality systems (Virtalis, HTC VIVE, Oculus, and CyberGlove). These support our
contribution to numerous activities including a recent AHRC ‘Cyberselves’ project that explores
how self-identity may be redefined through technologies such as virtual and augmented reality.
The University’s high-performance computing facilities (see REF5a) enable our computationally
intensive research including modelling of dopamine’s role in basal ganglia function (J
Neuroscience outputs).

Our wet lab neuroscience is situated within the University’s main biology building, providing
206m2 of laboratory space. Acquisition of in vivo two photon microscopy imaging capacity,
combined with existing multimodal in-vivo imaging, electrophysiological, optogenetic and
immunohistochemistry technologies and a 7T animal MRI imaging facility supports preclinical
neuroscience studies spanning single cell imaging up to the neuroimaging of the whole brain; a
capability available in few other labs around the world. Collaboration within the university provides
access to further neuroscience facilities. For example, Howarth worked with colleagues in the
Department of Infection, Immunity and Cardiovascular Disease to create a zebrafish model of
neurovascular coupling, supported by a £353k NC3R award (outputs: J Cerebral Blood Flow &
Metabolism; Disease Models and Mechanisms). Going forward, our involvement in the University’s
flagship Neuroscience Institute will provide access to leading technologies including a new human
MRI/PET facility, funded by £2M University investment. This will strengthen links between pre-
clinical and clinical research. For example, studies with receptor or metabolite specific
neuroimaging in clinical cohorts will be operated in parallel with multimodal, multiscale (cell-to-
whole-brain) preclinical studies within our neurovascular laboratories.

The main Psychology department moved to a newly acquired and fully refurbished building
in 2016. This provides over 500m2 of staff office space, a further 390m2 for PGR students, and
122sm2 of laboratory space including 18 experimental testing cubicles. We also retained >150m2 of
laboratory space at our original site, providing 10 further experimental laboratories. This
infrastructure provides flexible laboratory space to support our social, cognitive and
clinical data collection. It houses our human cognitive neuroscience research facilities including
two Biosemi EEG systems which were upgraded following a £40k departmental investment. One
system has a city centre location facilitating access to community samples. The other is close to
green space and has designated parking, making it suitable for parents to bring children; it was
designed for accessibility for neurodivergent populations with limited sensory distraction. Both EEG
systems are housed within shielded Faraday cages in electrophysiology laboratory suites with
capacity to record ECG, skin conductance, and electromyography independently or concurrently.
We also invested in transcranial direct-current stimulation equipment and are developing capacity
to combine this with EEG. Additionally, alumni and departmental funding supported upgrade of our
portable EEG equipment (two ANTNeuro EEG systems). Collectively, these facilities have
supported a range of outputs addressing neurological functioning in autism spectrum disorders
(e.g., J Abnormal Psychology, Autism Research), and neurotypical functioning (e.g., Neuroimage,
Cortex).

To support cognitive research, we house an Eyelink 1000 static eye-tracker and recently upgraded
our SMI mobile eye-tracking system to Tobii-Pro glasses. Capitalising on our neurodivergent-
friendly laboratory facilities this equipment has supported work on visual fixations in autism (e.g., J
Abnormal Psychology, Autism) and ADHD (J Eye Movement Research) alongside collaborations
with architects investigating engagement with the urban environment (Sustainability).

Going forward, we are developing our infrastructure and adding new space to support research
growth and maintain state-of-the-art facilities. Developing the wet neuroscience and main



                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
psychology space is pivotal to the University’s ambitious 10-year plan for refreshing the
Science faculty’s estate.




 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


4.1 Research collaboration

Collaboration is central to delivering our research strategy in terms of accessing (1)
interdisciplinary expertise; (2) resources such as specialised data and equipment; and (3)
enhancing societal relevance. To achieve these aims we support staff to work with the most
appropriate research groups in the world whether they are local, national or international, via the
following mechanisms:

   •   Support for visiting academics: we hosted >30 international visitors from Europe, China,
       Israel, and the USA.
   •   Study leave for research visits: we have undertaken >80 overseas visits supported by
       external travel awards (e.g., GCRF, Worldwide Universities Network) or host organisations.
       Sheffield’s International Faculty in Thessaloniki facilitated staff visits and collaborative
       research through PhD scholarships.
   •   Funded external speaker programmes.
   •   Financial support to attend conferences.
   •   Holding research away days with other Sheffield departments.
   •   Supporting applications to the White Rose Collaboration Fund for seed corn funding for
       joint Leeds, Sheffield, and York projects (4 awards).

The effectiveness of our approach is demonstrated by the following: All staff held external
collaborations that led to publications. 90% of staff have at least one active international
collaboration (>100 collaborative projects); and 41% of published outputs involved international co-
authors, most commonly from the USA (174 outputs), Germany (70) and Australia (69), with others
in China, Brazil, Uganda, and other countries. 16 staff held funded UK-based collaborative
projects, supporting >150 outputs from national collaborations.

Evidence that collaboration achieves our strategic objectives is as follows:

   1. Interdisciplinarity: External collaboration provides access to interdisciplinary and
      specialist expertise across the sciences, humanities, arts and medicine. For example,
      Wilson combines his computational modelling skills with experimental and behavioural
      genetics expertise at laboratories in University of California (UC) Davis and UC Riverside
      on his James S McDonnell Foundation project (eLife and Scientific Reports outputs).
      Supported by the US National Institute of Mental Health, Rowe participated in an
      interdisciplinary collaboration including psychiatry (McMaster) and behavioural genetics
      (Emory), providing access to international cohort data including the Georgia Twin Study
      (outputs in Molecular Psychiatry, J Abnormal Psychology). Matthews’ work to develop
      interventions to promote child language development (funded by ESRC, British Academy
      and Nuffield) is enhanced by collaborations with computational linguists (Liverpool), who
      analyse large corpora of naturalistic speech, theoretical linguists (Leeds, York) and
      educationalists (UCL) who contribute understanding of real-world educational contexts
      (e.g., J Child Psychology and Psychiatry).


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   2. Access to specialised resources: Our expertise adds value to, and benefits from,
      resources that external organisations have invested in. For example, Schmidt collaborates
      with UC San Diego to model their large human EEG datasets (eLife, Nature Neuroscience)
      and with UC San Francisco and Bordeaux to analyse the effects of optogenetic stimulation
      in animal models of Parkinson’s disease (Neuron, J Neuroscience). Saal collaborates with
      UCL and Oxford to access 7T high-field human MRI scanning facilities (Wellcome funded)
      and Gothenburg who collect electrophysiological recordings from human nerves using
      microneurography (EU funded). Rowe investigates road lighting to reduce pedestrian
      accidents in collaboration with the Leeds Institute of Transport Studies who provide data
      from an advanced virtual reality driving simulator (EPSRC funded).

   3. Enhancing societal relevance: External collaborators support our societal relevance
      agenda. Debowska’s collaborators in Jamaica, India and Uganda provide opportunities to
      evaluate the impact of prosocial games on gender-based violence in LMICs (Computers in
      Human Behaviour). Field contributes to a £693k NIH-funded project that applies
      psychological theory to model the effects of policy interventions on population-level alcohol
      consumption, led from our Engineering faculty with external academic partners across the
      USA and Canada. Strong NHS collaborations maximise the societal relevance of our
      clinical research: in addition to Delgadillo’s role as Director of an NHS Centre for
      Psychological Research (see Section 2), we are members of the Sheffield Mental Health
      Collaborative alongside Sheffield NHS trust, charities, and Sheffield City Council. Our
      Psychotherapy Evaluation and Research Lab (PEARLS; see section 1), brings together
      clinicians and psychotherapy service providers, and co-ordinates the Northern IAPT
      Practice Network. NHS collaborations support access to large psychological service
      evaluation datasets for Barkham, Kellett and Delgadillo. For example, Barkham compared
      the effectiveness of different treatment approaches using the 2 nd UK National Audit of
      Psychological Therapies accessed via NHS Digital (BMC Psychiatry), and five years of
      regional IAPT evaluations accessed through collaboration with NHS Trusts (BMC Trials).

Collaborative arrangements for PGR training

Interdisciplinary collaboration for PhD supervision is supported by the ESRC White Rose DTP
which provides training events across the seven participating universities centred around
interdisciplinary themes including (a) Wellbeing, Health and Communities, (b) Education,
Childhood and Youth and (c) Advanced Quantitative Methods. The DTP also supports cross-
institution multidisciplinary co-supervision; for example we participate in a three studentship-
network award addressing inequalities in cognitive development which involves supervision from
Psychology, Health Sciences and Sociology departments across three universities. Cross-
institutional supervision is also supported where external supervisors provide a unique disciplinary
contribution, for example expertise in behaviour genetics from Goldsmiths. Societal relevance is
embedded in PGR training through White Rose DTP schemes that require substantial collaboration
with a non-academic partner. Our studentship awards include partnerships with Sheffield City
Council, Bradford Institute of Health Research and Alcohol Change UK.

4.2 Interactions with research users and contribution to society

As described in our impact strategy (Section 1), we actively encourage staff to interact with
research users to maximise societal relevance, and provide mechanisms to enable impact.
Our engagement with NHS trusts positions us to generate public benefit from our clinical research.
Beyond our impact case studies (see section 1), examples of clinical impact include developing a
guided self-help version of Cognitive Analytic Therapy suitable for IAPT delivery (Behavioural and

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Cognitive Psychotherapy) and providing recommendations for delivery of telephone therapy during
the COVID-19 lockdown (Int J Eating Disorders). During an impact sabbatical with Crohn’s and
Colitis UK, Rowse contributed to the European Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy Clinical
Guideline for small-bowel capsule endoscopy (Endoscopy) and to benchmarking UK standards for
inflammatory bowel disease treatments (Frontline Gastroenterology).

Our strategy of maximising societal relevance has also led to non-academic impact within our other
research themes, as illustrated by the following examples.

   •   Buckland worked with national (Slimming World) and local (Zest community centre)
       organisations to develop and evaluate weight management programmes (J Nutrition).

   •   Webb partnered with Nestle Purina, generating >£200k research income to develop
       interventions to reduce pet obesity.

   •   Matthews’ research on child language acquisition led to partnerships with Save the
       Children and the National Deaf Children’s Society. She is lead scientific advisor for BBC
       Education’s “Tiny Happy People”, a five-year initiative to develop communication skills in 0-
       4-year-olds, and was recently awarded ~£200k to evaluate the programme.

   •   Freeth works with the Child Growth Foundation to investigate links between Silver-Russell
       syndrome and autism (J Abnormal Psychology).

   •   Wilson’s recent EU-funded “iNavigate” project includes EODYNE systems
       neurorehabilitation technology manufacturer as an industry partner to optimise robotic
       spatial navigation.

   •   Stafford’s EPSRC award (£219k, commenced 2020) partners with Toshiba to investigate
       how synthetic ‘Argubots’ can improve people’s understanding of complex debates.

Public engagement

We support staff to engage with the media and directly with the public to disseminate their
research and its broader implications. For example, researchers in our Learning and
Development theme organise three public lectures per year on autism; these are well-attended and
some have received >35k YouTube views. Ten staff appeared on broadcast media since 2014
discussing their findings or providing expert commentary on topics including inflammatory bowel
disease (Rowse; Radio 4), Dry January (Field; Radio 4), Black Friday consumer behaviour (Webb;
Sky News) and the COVID-19 Consortium study (Gibson-Miller, Levita and Bentall; BBC Online &
Radio, Guardian, Sunday Telegraph, ITV News, Russia Today). Blakey and colleagues’ ASMR
research (PloS One) was covered by more than 130 media outlets (Altmetric >1,200), and has
>15k YouTube views. Print media features include Sirois’ work on procrastination and self-
compassion (New York Times, Daily Telegraph). Webster’s psychological impact of quarantine
paper (Altmetrics >6,000) was covered by 341 media outlets (e.g., Le Monde, CNN). We contribute
to regional public engagement events including the biannual ‘Sheffield Festival of the Mind’, ‘Pint of
Science’, ‘Psychology in the Pub’, ‘Skeptics in the Pub’, ‘Discovery Night’ and ‘Discovery Morning’
(10 staff contributed to one or more events). We have contributed to podcasts and written for
specialist blogs and websites (e.g. Inside Government, Naked Scientist Podcast, The
Conversation). Stafford received the 2014 BPS Public Engagement and Media award for his
mindhacks.com neuroscience and psychology blog which received up to 100,000 unique visitors
per day.



                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.3 Contribution to sustainability of the discipline

Our approach to open science and reproducibility (see Section 1) positions us to contribute
to the sustainability of the discipline and beyond it. This commitment is illustrated by Webb’s
2020 ESRC award (£441k) to create an evolving big data resource to synthesise correlations
between diverse forms of behaviour. This project capitalises on a cross-theme collaboration
combining expertise in health (Norman), clinical psychology (Huddy) and large-scale longitudinal
datasets (Rowe), combined with interdisciplinary expertise in computer science, data analytics and
human-computer interaction to develop an interactive database of behavioural correlations that can
be organically updated by all researchers. The database will be openly accessible via a
collaborative workbench allowing academics, policymakers and other stakeholders to generate
pooled-estimates of the links between bespoke pairs of behaviours. The project will deliver new
findings on the relationships between behaviours with impact on issues of societal relevance.

19 staff (>50%) held at least one editorial role, including 25 handling editor (associate or senior
editor) roles in journals including Psychological Bulletin, Journal of Experimental Social
Psychology, Memory, Health Psychology Review, and leading specialist journals (e.g. Addiction,
International Journal of Eating Disorders). Rowe twice received “star reviewer” awards from
Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, and Publons recognised Rowe and Von Bastian as
‘top peer reviewers’. Our staff were members of national and international funding boards
including BBSRC Panel A, ESRC Panel A and Future Leaders panels, NIHR programme grants
board, the Royal Society international schemes board, Leverhulme Prize panel and the British
Academy Psychology Section. Four staff sat on international panels (Australia, Catalonia, Finland,
and France), and two currently sit on the European Research Council Investigator awards panel.
Our staff also sit on charity research grant panels including Alcohol Change UK, Autistica, and
Crohn’s and Colitis UK.

More than 80% of staff have reviewed grants including 16 staff who reviewed for overseas
funders. Four staff contributed to the ESRC Peer Review College. Broader disciplinary
contributions include Stafford who has a 0.2 FTE role as the University’s Research Practice lead,
an academic leadership role that is part of the UK Reproducibility Network. Our staff were external
examiners for more than 100 PhDs, 40 of which were overseas including Australia (10), Canada,
India, USA, and Europe, exemplifying our international reputation.

These contributions to the discipline have been enabled by our workload allocation model,
which incentivizes editorial roles and funding body positions with workload adjustments, and
allocates one week per annum (or part-time equivalent) for ad-hoc grant and journal peer-
reviewing.

We contributed to conference organisation with staff serving on the committees of >10
international conferences, including EEE Haptics and Eurohaptics, Society for the Study of
Ingestive Behavior, European Health Psychology Society, European Association for Social
Psychology, and the Royal Society Theo Murphy meeting. Waller chairs the BABCP Scientific
Committee (2013-2022) and Webb co-chairs the Society for the Study of Motivation program
committee. We contributed to organising the inaugural (2019) UK Neural Computation conference
and will host this conference in 2021; we also hosted the Procrastination Research Conference,
Child Language Symposium, Greater Yorkshire Memory Meeting, and the Sheffield Glia
symposium. We have given >30 keynote/plenary lectures including the BPS Social and Health
Psychology sections, and three at BABCP. Freeth was the early career keynote speaker at the
2016 Neurodevelopmental Disorders annual seminar.



                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Several staff have been recognised for their research contributions. Bentall was elected as a
Fellow of the British Academy in 2014, Hardy won the 2016 BPS Shapiro award, and Barkham
won the International Society for Psychotherapy Research’s Senior Distinguished Research Career
Award (2019).

In summary, this unit makes vital contributions to globally influential psychology and neuroscience
research. This is demonstrated by the quality and volume of our research outputs and the arising
impact, which has been supported by external funding from diverse sources. Our achievements
reflect the outstanding research environment provided by the University of Sheffield that will allow
us to continue addressing the most important societal challenges in the future.




                                                                                            Page 19
