Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Dundee

 Unit of Assessment: UoA20 Social Work and Social Policy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Context and Structure
UoA20 is an interdisciplinary Unit that contributes significantly to the University of Dundee’s vision
of Transforming lives, locally and globally. It comprises 12 Category A staff (11.2 FTE) and one
Category B. The Unit is situated primarily in the School of Education and Social Work (ESW) with
one colleague (Rodriguez) incorporated from the Dental School.

We have made significant progress on our strategic objectives from 2014:
    • 100 per cent of research-active staff returned to REF2021, all with doctorates;
    • All researchers are actively publishing and increasingly embracing audiences beyond
       traditional peer-reviewed outlets;
    • Greater alignment with institutional culture of innovation and interdisciplinarity;
    • Significant growth in the postgraduate research (PGR) community, adding vitality and
       sustainability, with 20 completions compared to 3 in the previous assessment period;
    • Increased engagement with stakeholders both face-to-face and latterly through digital
       channels, feeding impact through policy and practice outcomes.

Major university restructuring in 2015 resulted in the creation of 10 academic Schools and greater
clarity on institutional research priorities. Promoting greater connectivity across the University has
enabled UoA20 to consolidate our strengths and build capacity through recruitment of both
internationally established and exciting early career researchers (ECRs) in our priority areas. We
have built upon existing areas of strength, developed and revitalised others, whilst withdrawing
from areas where we could not sustain excellence.

1.1.1 Structure
The Unit’s research is organised into two thematic groups, namely, Peripheries (led by Campbell
and Fernandes) and Practice (led by Smith). The Unit sits within the Institute of Social
Sciences Research (ISSR) and its five research themes. These, in turn, connect wider University
strategy and interdisciplinary themes (see Figure 1 and REF5a). Both themes are producing world-
leading and internationally excellent outputs, attracting research funding, and have a strong
emphasis on impact that transforms lives, locally and globally.

The Peripheries Research Group
Peripheries focuses on marginalised groups and perspectives – disability, marginal, incarcerated,
or displaced persons and territories, especially in the global South. Peripheries incorporates
activist, theoretical and policy studies, taking a truly global perspective.

Since 2014, and staffing changes associated with the retirement of Hogg, the Unit has embraced a
wider framing of Disability Studies. Building from our established strengths in learning disability,
the Unit has shifted towards interdisciplinary challenges and methodologies drawing from
sociology, law, philosophy and social policy. The effectiveness of this strategy is evident from our
excellence in four particular areas: theoretical aspects of disability (Campbell, Simpson), political
and social policy issues (Mladenov), culture (Campbell, Levy, Simpson), and service provision
(Levy, Mladenov).


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 1: Organisational structure of Unit themes, ISSR and University interdisciplinary themes.

Peripheries research contributes to the University’s interdisciplinary themes of Social justice, and
Health and wellbeing. Fernandes, for instance, has led on a number of key national and
international projects working alongside various groups – impoverished communities, LGBT
prisoners, homeless people, exploring these key issues of justice and well-being. This has included
the ground-breaking international work on homelessness and health (Rodriguez and Fernandes,
see ICS2). ICS2 links Peripheries to the ISSR areas of Social justice and change and Health and
wellbeing, exemplified by the commissioned review of Health and Social Care in Scotland’s prison
estate (Fernandes, Campbell and Levy).

The Practice Research Group
Practice considers the nature of contemporary professionalism and the need to educate new
professionals to be comfortable in working with complexity. This, in turn, asks questions about
current teaching practices, with an emphasis on applying theory to practice within a tightly
regulated, codified and evidence-based context, which may actually be inadequately preparing
students for an increasingly fluid world. This has resulted in a programme of activities under the
leadership of Smith, another strategic appointment in 2017. Practice incorporates Fenton’s
important contributions to our understanding of students’ attitudes towards politics and the political


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
aspects of practice and McCulloch’s work on the future of Social Work education in Scotland (see
ICS1). ICS1 links Practice directly to the ISSR focus of Governance, policy and regulation, and
indirectly to Social justice and social change, and Wellbeing, as well as to the University’s priority
of progressive Social change and Health and wellbeing.

Practice has become the natural vehicle for staff to transition from initial appointment on Teaching
and Scholarship (T&S) contracts to being independent researchers in Teaching and Research
(T&R) roles. The area is by nature interdisciplinary, creating exciting collaborations with staff from
UoA23, e.g. Smith with Duncan Mercieca and Daniela Mercieca, and Levy with Barrable and
Ward. Kelly’s work on Health and Social Care for older people has produced some equally
interdisciplinary work, including several funded projects looking at the experiences of older people,
particularly people with dementia. Maycock’s work on prison officers and LGBT issues in prisons
straddles Practice and Peripheries.

Institutional Collaborations
The Institute for Social Sciences Research (ISSR) is a cross-School initiative established in
2016 spanning four academic Schools (ESW, Social Sciences, Business and Health Sciences). In
accordance with the excellence agenda, it promotes impactful research which is increasingly
interdisciplinary in nature, with UoA20 most involved in: Health and wellbeing; Social justice and
social change, and Governance, policy and regulation. ISSR supports projects, events and
activities to identify and develop new collaborative links and expand current relationships across
Schools. ISSR runs a seminar programme, which has included a number of presentations from
staff within the Unit and seminars by invited external speakers. ISSR offers incubator grants for
pump-priming and proof-of-concept studies to win external grant funding and supports a Global
Scholars programme.

UoA20 is well represented each year at the annual ISSR research forum, which provides a
platform for showcasing research and building wider internal and external academic and
practitioner networks. Examples of enabling connections and support facilitated through the ISSR
include the place-based collaborations of Fernandes and Rodriguez with geographers. Similarly,
Levy’s work on the lives and experience of women with a 'looked after' child’ involved
educationalists, whilst McCulloch working with lawyers received supplementary funding for a
Criminal and Community Justice Round Table.

The Centre for Transformative Change: Educational and Life Transitions (TCELT) is an
interdisciplinary and cross-university research centre, overseen by eleven University of Dundee
staff from a range of disciplines: social work (Kelly, Simpson), education, educational psychology,
nursing, medicine, and humanities. TCELT provides a focal point for building a critical mass of
active international researchers in the area of transformative change and transitions, particularly in
the context of educational and life transitions, social justice and values/approaches and their
implications for well-being. TCELT’s international network has over 120 academics, professionals
and policy makers from over 15 countries. It organises monthly seminars, research methods
workshops, writers’ retreats and a literature club. It also hosts international academics and
students.

1.2 Review of research and impact strategy

1.2.1 Enhance quality of publications
We have enhanced the quality of publications from the staff and research student community
through (a) a review group comprising staff who have experience of writing in leading journals to

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
support other less experienced colleagues by providing feedback using REF criteria; (b) writing
clusters to benefit from the research themes and their synergy; (c) workshops to discuss
strategies used by staff whose papers are recognised as world-leading and internationally
excellent. Similarly, TCELT and ISSR established (d) a monthly writers’ retreat for academics
and research students to come together to work on outputs with periodic discussion of targets and
issues (online since COVID-19 lockdown); to make the writing more methodologically rigorous, (e)
a monthly journal club was established in 2015; and (f) a new writers’ group for students and
ECRs comprises support from peers as well as those more experienced. This group provides
opportunities for sharing feedback on initial ideas to draft papers.

1.2.2 Increase and diversify sources of funding
To enhance the quality and ambition of our research, we focused on capturing research grant
funding that supports research collaborations, impacts on societal challenges and reputation. We
have engaged in building strong international and national networks with the aim of submitting
collaborative, interdisciplinary bids for research funding. This has led to a significant rise in the
number and value of applications; during the current REF period, grant applications rose from four
applications in 2015, to 15 applications in 2019 (see Section 3).

1.2.3 Increase and enhance interdisciplinary research
The strategy to embed interdisciplinarity led to the establishment of the Dundee Interdisciplinary
and Innovation Forum (DIIF) in 2017 to address global development issues mandated through
the Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF). The Unit has won pump-priming funding for seven
interdisciplinary research projects with impact in Low and Middle Income Countries (see 3.1 and
4.2), which have built global interdisciplinary networks and collaborations. This has enabled for
example ICS2 (Rodriguez and Fernandes) bringing together dentistry, community action, social
work, nursing, health services and policy makers in Scotland and Brazil.

The Unit’s PGR community benefits from the training and support network offered by the Scottish
Graduate School of Social Science (ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership) – an example being
Kelly’s co-supervision (with Health Sciences) of ‘living with dementia’. In 2019, the University
created its first institutional-wide Doctoral Academy (DA) unifying all the specialised DTP and
DTCs to enhance researcher development, including employability agendas and better support for
supervisors. An early initiative illustrating the coordinating power and scaling advantages of the DA
was to launch the ‘100 Projects’ programme in 2019 advertising interdisciplinary doctoral projects.
In its first year UoA20 generated 12 proposals resulting in three matriculations fuelling the vitality
and sustainability of the Unit by attracting top home and international PGRs working on research
topics fully aligned with staff interests.

1.2.4 Promoting impact
The Unit is highly responsive to calls for tender from government bodies and NGO service-
providers for research and development activities, such as the recent report on Health and Social
Care in Prisons currently under consideration by the Scottish Government (Levy, Fernandes,
Campbell). This approach leads to greater opportunities for direct impact on policy and practice
(see both ICSs). We also pursue opportunities to share research insights with professionals and
policy-makers and benefit from the University’s membership of the Scottish Universities Insight
Institute (SUII) selecting and supporting Knowledge Exchange collaborations twice annually. We
have been successful twice with these including Fernandes’ and Rodriguez’s work in Scotland
and Brazil, which contributed to ICS2.



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
To encourage interdisciplinary research, development, Public Engagement and Knowledge
Exchange, all staff in the unit are allocated additional time for interdisciplinary working and public
engagement.

1.3 Research quality and integrity
The Unit upholds the highest standards of research integrity. This is particularly important in a
School where most empirical research is with children and adults at risk. All research students
must complete an online research integrity module, which will also be mandatory for new
supervisors from 2021. The School has produced an online research ethics module that has direct
examples based on our research contexts. We have organised training on data management
incorporating open research practice, supported by the Library and Learning Centre.

We have a rigorous ethical approval procedure with a University Research Ethics Committee
overseeing the work of School Research Ethics Committees (ESW Convenor, Simpson). Staff
and students are provided with training as new legislation or protocols emerge, such as GDPR. In
all Schools at the University, a Research Integrity Lead (Smith for ESW) has been appointed.
They are responsible for promoting a culture of research integrity and provide an independent point
of contact and source of impartial advice for staff and students in relation to the responsible
conduct of research or potential research misconduct. The University adheres to the Concordat to
Support Research Integrity (see REF5a).

1.4 Open research culture
Consistent with the University’s Open Research policy, all journal articles and conference
outputs are published Gold or Green open access and deposited in the institutional repository,
Discovery. Going beyond these policies, books, chapters and grey literature are also made open
and, where possible, assigned DOIs to aid re-use and discovery. All research staff have attended
training on the principles and practices of open research and the Unit engages with Open Access
Week events organised and promoted by the Library and Learning Centre. We are compliant with
the Concordat for Open Research Data which is centrally supported with tailored storage
solutions and advice underpinned by the University’s Policy to Govern the Management of
Research Data.

The School is in the process of establishing an Open Access journal geared towards research
carried out by ESW staff and doctoral students. This will increase understanding in our ECR
community of open research practices, including licensing and copyright.

1.5 Future plans and priorities for next REF cycle
Most of our research focuses on poor and marginalised people, including those with protected
characteristics and on updating Social Work practice and education. In a post-COVID-19 society
where the effects of the pandemic disproportionately impact on these groups of society, our
research will continue to make important contributions to address inequalities. Our close
connections with Health Sciences and other Schools will further strengthen our capabilities to
address future societal challenges locally and globally.

Our strategic objective going forward is to sustain and enhance our research and impact activities
by:
    • Continuing to invest in the enhancement of the capacity of the Unit’s research
       community;



                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Increasing the size and quantity of research grant capture to strengthen our research
       themes, particularly for challenge-led interdisciplinary research with internal and external
       partners, nationally and internationally;
   •   Contributing to the reproducibility of research by making our datasets more routinely
       open for reuse;
   •   Promoting greater resilience to withstand changes in core staffing through strategic
       recruitment to more targeted areas of strength;
   •   Increasing the quality and volume of our PGR community aligned to our research
       themes;
   •   Enhancing research impact through partnerships with key governmental and non-
       governmental bodies.

 2. People

2.1 Staffing strategy and development
Our staffing strategy is central to our research strategy and focuses on investing in our existing
staff and recruiting strategically to enhance the research environment of the UoA and its priorities.

2.1.1 Investment in staff
Investment in staff development is supported by the University’s processes of the annual
Objective Setting and Review (OSaR) and the Annual Research Review (T&R and independent
research staff only) which identify development needs and recognise high performance to inform
promotion and reward procedures. These are supportive processes where staff can discuss their
career aspirations and indicate the support they consider desirable to meet their development
needs to achieve their career aspirations, which are actioned by the Dean through the staff
development budget. Regular professional development programmes are provided through the
University’s Organisational and Professional Development (OPD) programme that Unit staff at all
career stages have been accessing during this REF period. The Unit invests in future leaders
through participation in national programmes, such as the Aurora leadership development initiative
for women.

Unit staff have benefitted from participation in the cross-institutional “Teaching, Research and
Academic Mentoring (TRAM) Scheme”. The scheme aims to pair experienced T&R academics with
colleagues at earlier career stages, to provide guidance and structured support. To reward and
realise potential, we have an effective programme of investment in existing staff, which involves
support for staff to undertake research degrees (n=7, 2014-2020, including Fenton and
McCulloch). A further three T&S staff are undertaking research degrees with a view towards
transitioning to T&R. They receive mentoring as part of this process and are already active in
Public Engagement and Knowledge Exchange activities.

The University’s promotion routes for T&R staff are clear and transparent (REF5a). In the current
REF timeframe six research-active staff have gained promotion (Campbell and Barron to Chair;
Fenton, McCulloch and Fernandez to Reader; Levy to Senior Lecturer). All staff who have
significant responsibility for research are allocated 30 per cent of their time for research activities.
A monthly newsletter which celebrates and promotes the successes of staff and research students
is circulated internally with an annual digest being shared with non-academic partners and
collaborators. It enhances engagement with research and has been replicated by other Schools.
Similarly, the School’s annual research conference provides an opportunity for the sharing of



                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research and scholarship and has raised the profile of research across the School and wider
University community.

2.1.2 Recruitment strategy
Our staffing strategy has seen a significant change in the expectations surrounding recruitment. All
recent appointments are to T&R contracts with a particular focus on recruiting internationally
established research leaders: the professorial appointment of Smith, Senior Lecturers (Campbell
and Mladenov) and Maycock as Lecturer. Appointees are expected to have a PhD or be nearing
the completion of a doctorate, and to have or be working towards outputs and related research
activity. Appointees must demonstrate alignment of their work with one of the Unit’s research
themes.

2.1.3 Development opportunities
Our approach to development is sustained by The Concordat to Support the Career Development
of Researchers. Induction to the School’s research culture and systems is provided to all new staff.
ISSR, the GCSHS, the University’s OPD programme and other Professional Services Directorates
deliver a wide range of events, workshops and short courses mapped to Vitae’s Researcher
Development Framework, which are well attended by UoA research students and staff.

ECR development is nurtured and promoted through mentoring and opportunities for co-writing
outputs (Daly with Simpson and Smith), preparation of grant applications and co-supervising
research students (Daly). Where they are probationary lecturers (Daly, Maycock), ECRs have
additional protected time in their workloads for development. The UoA’s new writers’ group and the
new Open Access journal are targeted particularly at these staff.

Research student supervision also provides the opportunity for professional development.
Supervisory teams of two often link an experienced supervisor and an ECR to provide ‘apprentice
training’ for ECRs’ academic development. This developmental aspect is strengthened through
mandatory staff training sessions. The supervisors may come from different disciplinary
backgrounds, depending on the research topic and approach.

Staff and students are regularly funded to present at national and international conferences. Since
2014, ESW staff have been funded to attend and present at a total of 255, and research students
at 22, national and international conferences, including a strong presence at the conference of the
European Association of Schools of Social Work and the European Conference of Social Work
Research.

2.2 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
The UoA has benefited from the School’s strong commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion, in
consonance with the institution’s EDI policies. It has appointed an EDI officer (Levy) to champion
the implementation of EDI policies and to engage with staff, students, student union
representatives and professional services to ensure that the Equality Act (2010) is followed, and
that inclusion and diversity are embedded within the working culture of the School. EDI is a
standing agenda item at RKEC and School Board meetings to ensure that all research and
research-related matters are considered in that context. Athena SWAN champions are present on
all committees including the Senior Executive Group.

The School received its first Athena SWAN Bronze Award in 2018 (led by Levy). Specific support
needs for staff who are part-time, returning from career breaks, with declared disabilities or other
protected characteristics are addressed through the OSaR process. All staff complete four

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
mandatory ED&I online modules: Diversity in the workplace; Disability; Stress in the workplace and
A Manager’s Guide to Stress. Staff involved in recruitment also undergo an additional module on
Recruitment and selection.

The Unit implements the University’s suite of Work-Life Balance policies and supports flexible
working, including home-working, the accommodation of childcare needs and adjustments for
those with protected characteristics. The School has flexible working patterns for research and
academic staff. These policies have been applied and enhanced in response to the restrictions
imposed by COVID-19.

Much of the work of our staff and research students relates to marginalised groups and people with
protected characteristics. We particularly encourage research degree applications on these topics
and from people statistically under-represented. The profile of our completing students highlights
the international nature of our work, with students from Finland, Indonesia, Ireland, Libya,
Malaysia, Nigeria, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia. We have also had one Gypsy Traveller graduate.
Nine completers were female and eleven male. Most of the students (seven) were in the 31-40 age
range, five in 41-50, four were over 50 and the remainder younger than 31. None of these students
declared a disability, although we have since matriculated several students who have.

The gender balance of the Unit staff on the REF 2021 census date was 6:6. The age profile was
five aged 40-49, seven aged 50-59 and one over 60. Two staff members declared a disability and
three identified as BME. The Unit’s output submission matches the staff profile in relation to
gender, age and protected characteristics. All Category A staff are on permanent contracts; there
were two early career researchers on the census date.

2.3 Rich learning environment for staff, research students and visiting scholars

2.3.1 Doctoral students
Our interdisciplinary approach is reflected in the UoA’s vibrant research student community.
Supervisory teams frequently combine academics from different areas of the School and across
the University to reflect the needs of students, build interdisciplinarity and share knowledge
between supervisors. Many of the projects being supervised by Social Work staff are in areas of
education as it relates, for instance, to disability (inclusive education in Palestine), social exclusion
and professional ethics (care and compassion in nurse education). UoA staff are part of
supervisory teams in Design, Social Sciences, Health Sciences.

All students have regular review meetings with a Thesis Monitoring Committee – twice annually
for full-time students – of two academic staff (not their supervisors) to get feedback on their
progress, quality of supervision and resource needs. This Committee also meets to assess
students’ readiness to move onto research student registration (Upgrade Review).

The University offers Higher Education Scholarships Palestine (HESPAL) to academics as well as
discounted doctorates to staff from An-Najah University (Palestine). Some of the HESPAL Masters
students undertake research degrees with us. Simpson currently supervises a HESPAL research
student. The University offers six Humanitarian Scholarships to any refugee applicants on taught
postgraduate programmes and one for PhD.

On 31st July 2020 there were 28 PGR, reflecting a rise in annual intake from one to eight between
2014 and 2018. This growth translates to an increased number of completions from 2017/18
onwards (see Table 1). Given the relatively high proportion of PGR studying part-time, and

                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
therefore taking longer to complete, we expect to maintain this upward trajectory for several years
as completions catch up with increased intake. This achievement has been enabled by our
strategy of investing in staff achieving doctorates coupled with our recruitment strategy of
appointing only staff with or near completion of their PhD, which substantially expanded our
supervisory capacity. We have more proactively used the School web pages to recruit applicants
more directly linked to our priority areas.

Table 1: Research degree completions
               2014     2015     2016         2017      2018      2019      2020      Total
 PhDs          2        0        2            0         3         2         1         10
 Prof Docs     3        0        0            1         1         1         4         10
 Total         5        0        2            1         4         3         5         20

The Unit has been central to the University’s creation of a Doctoral Academy, with Smith taking an
active role in its development, which has led to a step-change in opportunities and support
provided to all research students, including staff-students. Kelly and Simpson were key to the
development of a new University-wide professional doctorate (Programme Director, Levy), which
emerged from the Unit/ESW professional doctorate. This is a part-time modular programme aimed
at busy professionals which enables them to apply their learning to a variety of fields, including
social work, education and healthcare. The Unit has had an intake of three new students in each of
the first two years.

All of the submitted staff, with the exception of Maycock, our most recent appointment, are
experienced principal PGR supervisors, qualification for which involves supervising in a secondary
capacity of at least one student to completion, and completion of University training on supervision,
research ethics and integrity. There are ongoing supervisor development days, e.g. four
development days were organised in the past year.

Doctoral alumni indicate that the programme and development activities improve employability and
enhance their promotion prospects. They undertake research to improve their own practice as well
as enhancing practice and policy at national levels. Their development includes providing abundant
opportunities to engage with an academic and professional community; debate and critique their
and others’ research ideas and collaborate with staff with national/international research profiles.
To this end, there is a monthly Research Students’ Forum, where students present and discuss
their work with peers and supervisors. We provide regular Research Methods Seminars and
workshops via ESW, TCELT and ISSR. We have actively participated in summer schools,
including an ESRC Advanced Research Day, which was attended by 60 students from across
Scotland, giving them an opportunity to learn advanced skills in research methods.

2.3.2 Visiting academics and students
To enrich our research environment and international impact, we have hosted a number of national
and international academics, research students from other institutions and short-term postdoctoral
researchers. During the REF period, this included academics, postdoctoral researchers and
students from Brazil, Netherlands, Denmark, Nepal, Pakistan, Sweden, Norway. Visits from
Brazilian academics have been particularly frequent – linked to the work of Rodriguez and
Fernandes – a colleague from Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro and two from the
Oswaldo Cruz Foundation visited for seven-month periods. We hosted a visiting professor from the
Federal University of Ceará for three months, all funded by CAPES/Brazilian Government
Research Agency. Fernandes also hosted a post-doctoral researcher from Pakistan for nine


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
months. Kelly supervised two visiting scholars from Pakistan, for six and three months
respectively. Smith hosted a visitor scholar from Aarhus University for two months. Numerous
others have visited for periods of under one month.

2.4 Construction of REF submission
In preparing its submission, the Unit’s Planning Group was guided by the University’s REF 2021
Code of Practice, which framed our decision-making process in the context of the principles of
equality, diversity and inclusion. The Planning Group made its decisions on outputs and
attributions in a manner that aimed to maximise the overall quality profile for the submission, based
on a thorough process of internal and external evaluation. All staff were invited to propose potential
Impact Case Studies through a series of impact workshops. The submitted Impact Case Studies
reflect the Planning Group’s view of the strongest demonstrable research impacts which emanated
from the unit in the reporting period. All members of the Planning Group completed mandatory
unconscious bias training prior to the decision-making process.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Income
To achieve our research strategy, we have focused on attracting research income which supports
collaborative research and impact and seeks to provide the infrastructure to enable our staff and
research students to flourish.

The Unit’s total research income for the period was around £2.6m, the bulk of which (£2.3m)
supported our collaborative partnership with a local charity working with people with profound and
multiple learning disabilities, which had links to the, now closed, White Top Research Unit, led by
Hogg. Other notable successes include a Scottish Government grant for £109k (Barron) – trauma
recovery across Scotland’s secure estate; research and consultancy awards from the Scottish
Social Services Council – review of social work education in Scotland, integrated learning and a
study of newly qualified social workers (McCulloch in collaborations variously with colleagues from
Edinburgh and Glasgow Caledonian Universities: £127.4k); Scottish Government – What the public
think of Scottish Social Services (McCulloch: £30k); the Oswaldo Cruz Foundation – an
international comparison of health systems (Fernandes: £4.2k); Barrow Cadbury Trust – LGBT
issues in UK prisons (Fernandes: £30k); Artlink – agency and profound and multiple learning
disability (Levy: £7.5k); Medical Research Council – Co-I award health care in prisons
(Fernandes: £10.1k); Scottish Government – measuring justice (McCulloch: £3.4k); Scottish
Institute for Policing Research – joint interviewing between police and social workers (£10.9k).
Grant applications reflect and reinforce our commitment to EDI issues in research and contribute to
our Athena SWAN status, with a good balance in gender, age, disability, years of academic
experience and nationality of PIs and CIs.

The grants have been spread between types of funders – five from government bodies, three from
charities and one from research councils. One of our key priorities in the past year has been to
pursue more ambitious awards and to improve the quality of our submissions at this level. We are
encouraged by the increased application activity and ambition in this direction over the past year
with several funding applications above £100k being submitted.

In addition to research income, the Unit has almost £36k in consultancy and knowledge exchange
income, and £56k in University-run funding competitions for GCRF pump-priming funding which
supports seven projects: protection and promotion of the human rights of LGBT+ people in prison:
dialogues between Brazil and India (Fernandes, two awards); Right to Health Care in Prison

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(Fernandes); mental health, social work education and biodiversity in Nepal (Smith); Oral health,
health and psychosocial needs of homeless youth in Brazil (Rodriguez, see ICS2); Ensuring water
security and decentralised basic sanitation through innovative technologies in the Eastern Amazon
Region (Jupp Kina) and 2nd Latin American Symposium on Climate Change Adaptation, Peru
(Jupp Kina). This enabled Fernandes to win (with Stirling University) an MRC funded project on
health care in prisons (total award value £165,527) and established global networks for the Unit’s
future GCRF-related research.

3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
We have benefited from the University’s substantial investments in creating spaces for research
interactions; coaching and mentoring programmes. As part of the University’s engagement
strategy, we are signatories to the Concordat on Public Engagement and in 2020 were awarded an
institutional Gold Engage Watermark from the National Coordinating Centre for Public
Engagement. This is supported for the School by two Impact Champions who help researchers
develop pathways to impact for their work.

The UoA is supported by the School’s Associate Dean Research who leads on research strategy
and engages with the University research strategy via the University Research and Knowledge
Exchange Committee and School strategy with the School Executive. The ADR is supported by the
Research Integrity Lead, Impact Champions, and Director of Doctoral Studies.

The School Research Office supports research through the organisation and administration of
research activities of the thematic groups; funding opportunities through weekly alerts from
RESEARCHConnect, which the University subscribes to; and governance processes (e.g.,
research ethics approval and research integrity) and the Research newsletter.

To achieve our research income ambitions, we have been supporting our staff with intensive grant
writing sessions, including direct support to applicants. We have research funding proposal
development support provided by the University Research and Innovation Services (RIS), including
for EU, UKRI, GCRF and other larger opportunities. Facilitation of collaboration, including, on
challenge-led funding opportunities, is supported by the University-wide Dundee Interdisciplinary
and Innovation Forum (DIIF).

Research-active staff receive support from the inception of the idea to reviewing draft applications
as non-subject specialists. Write it Right workshops support particularly ECRs with their grant
writing skills.

Doctoral students have access to dedicated study space, social areas, online/in-person library
facilities, software required for their particular research and relevant equipment (cameras, digital
recorders, etc.). The students are based in the same building as the academic staff to enhance
their academic and social integration. Further, there is a Global Room which is available to all
research students and their families across the University. Cultural events are hosted to ensure
that all students feel valued.

State-of-the-art video-conferencing facilities allow us to make all our research and student social
activities inclusive for our research students who are at a distance as well as opening some of
these up to students and academics from other national and international locations.

Since the start of COVID-19, a specific Microsoft Teams group was set up for the research
students with fortnightly online social networking sessions and staff regularly communicating with

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the students to ensure their health and well-being. Further, all research seminars and writers’
retreat sessions became online in order that research students could maintain contact with staff
and peers. Students were provided with resources to support the continuation of their research
online (e.g. online data collection) and their supervisors and the Director of Doctoral Studies made
them aware of flexibility in their timeline due to the impact of the pandemic. The School’s ongoing
research on international and home research students’ and their families’ transitions feeds into our
research student support.

PGRs are also supported by Dundee University Student’s Association whose work in promoting
the health and well-being of students has been recognised in numerous other awards. Student
Services created two in-depth resources (Learn Smart and Live Smart) to support students with
academia and mental health. Research Student Representatives have a standing agenda item on
the Research and Knowledge Exchange Committees to raise any matters and provide feedback,
along with representation through the ESW Student Forum. They are also supported by the
Research Student Development Officer from OPD and have confidential access to Disability
Services and Counselling along with prayer spaces and breast-feeding facilities.

The Library and Learning Centre play a crucial role in supporting staff and research students –
research-specific training; data management and processing, inclusive of systems such as ORCID,
OA, CCL et alia. The institutional public repository, Discovery, collates all research data and
enables staff to control their research profile including their outputs, awards, impact and research
activities. Discovery links and synchronises with ORCID, for which all staff have IDs. There has
been ongoing training related to its use for new staff and research students. University-level
improvements have also seen the recent introduction of sector-leading systems for tracking
research from initial ideas through to impact collection. We are organising training for staff and
students on the use and benefits of the new technology.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Our research aligns with the University’s mission of transforming lives locally and globally. All of
our research activities link, proximally or distally, to this end. The Unit’s strategy emphasises
impactful, collaborative engagement with our various publics – policy makers and the professional
community, service users and marginalised groups, and our academic communities.

4.1 Collaborations with and contributions to professional community

4.1.1 Policy and practice
The three main routes to the Unit’s impact on the professional community are in policy
development, the enhancement of practice and professional education.

McCulloch’s work has been instrumental in policy development and the enhancement of social
work education through the establishment of a new national social work education partnership – as
HEI lead – of universities, employers and the Scottish Government (ICS1). This has resulted in
significant changes to the Framework for Social Work Education in Scotland, as well as to
reconfiguration of the partnership links between local authorities and HEIs. McCulloch’s expertise
continues to be recognised in her ongoing membership of the working group for the Scottish
Government’s ‘Profile of Social Workers: Future Strategy’, aimed at raising the profile of social
work in Scotland. Similarly, the work of Rodriguez and Fernandes is informing the professional
education of community workers, dentists, nurses and social workers in numerous HEIs in


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Scotland and Brazil, whilst Rodriguez has been a key expert in the development of homelessness
policy at the Scottish Government (ICS2).

Our work in partnership with PAMIS (Promoting a More Inclusive Society) contributed to the hugely
influential Changing Places campaign – now an independent charity – for accessible toilets. Most
recently this has led to a consultation in 2019 by the Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local
Government on proposals to have a Changing Places toilet in all new or refurbished large public
buildings in England. Hogg’s work (4* ICS REF 2014), on Scotland’s legal framework for adults at
risk of harm, continues to inform the Scottish legal system in this area. Barron’s internationally
excellent work on trauma (also 4* ICS REF 2014) forms the basis for childcare policy in several
units in Scotland’s secure estate. These examples highlight that our research has significant long-
term impact and builds our reputation and relationships with government policy-makers to influence
future policy and practice change.

To enhance professional practice and policy with our research, the School established an
academic and professional forum, Talking Social Work (TSW), in 2018. TSW comprises evening
meetings open to anyone with an interest in social work, to promote and support the exchange and
sharing of ideas and knowledge and to facilitate learning across the academy and practice. It
shares and disseminates research and encourages the use of research in everyday practice. It has
provided the opportunity to discuss and debate professional social work matters and supported the
development of social work knowledge with a view to promoting the voice of social work in
developing practice and influencing policy at a local and national level. The forum meets quarterly,
with 60 to 70 academics, practitioners and students regularly attending. Issues discussed have
included the relevance of social work in the 21st Century; risk, relationships and professional
judgment; the role of values in social work; what is professional social work?; and the role of love in
social work practice. Invitation to TSW is spread widely throughout our partnership areas – Angus,
Dundee, Perth & Kinross and Fife.

In 2019, ESW hosted the annual conference of the International Association for Community
Development (IACD). The conference provided an example of excellent practice in bringing
together and facilitating collaboration among practitioners, academics, policy makers, funders and
other stakeholders from around the world to share perspectives on current contexts and challenges
for community work. In all, around 500 delegates attended, with around 300 from overseas.

4.2 Service users and marginalised groups
We note just a few key examples of how we have worked alongside service users and
marginalised groups to produce new knowledge and meaningful change. Our GCRF-related
activities (see 3.2) have been highly successful in linking our expertise to issues of high impact and
local relevance – notably water security, homelessness (ICS2), and health and the rights of people
in custody, particularly those in the LGBT community.

For the past two decades the Unit has engaged with our Carer and User Group – service users
and carers with direct experience of social work services who inform and participate in our social
work programmes – producing a number of co-authored journal articles and conference papers
(Levy), as well as supporting them to give conference papers themselves. Levy carried out two
funded projects looking at arts and health (ArtLink) and with the Paragon Ensemble, a charitable
organisation dedicated to inclusive music and arts for children with autism.

Rodriguez and Fernandes led a project, funded by SUII, to co-produce an international event and
associated video on youth homelessness with young people, service providers and academics,

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
subtitled in English, Portuguese and Spanish (see ICS2). Simpson’s work on the history of
learning disability resulted in his involvement in a project on the History of Strathmartine Learning
Disability Hospital, a co-produced project with former patients that created a website with video
stories.

4.3 Impact on the research base

4.3.1 Recognition and academic esteem
Members of the Unit have delivered over thirty keynote addresses to major international and
national conferences, including, Campbell (The Violence of Technicism: Ableism as Humiliation
and Degrading Treatment, UCL; Argument in Support of Studies in Ableism, Manchester
Metropolitan University); Fernandes (Dialogues on Public Security; II Seminário Internacional
Justiça Restaurativa, Rio de Janeiro); Mladenov (Barriers to independent living in Europe,
Barcelona; Social model of disability, independent living and the concept of “care”, Plovdiv
University, Bulgaria); Smith (Invited keynote at Prato, Italy, conference on working with involuntary
clients; Scottish Through Care and Aftercare Conference, Stirling; Invited speaker ‘From Savile to
Sex Gangs’ ESRC Festival of Ideas, University of Huddersfield).

Campbell writes extensively on issues related to disability – philosophy & sociology of ableism,
disability in Sri Lanka, law, biotechnology and is recognised as a world leader in studies in ableism.
Her work has been influential across the UK and European research community with seminars and
workshops hosted by institutions across the continent to discuss her work.

Levy has developed innovative applications of queer theory to learning disability in addition to her
work at the forefront of the use of arts in disability and social work – including a chapter in an
international handbook on the arts in social work. Mladenov brings with him a growing
international reputation as an emerging scholar in disability with works relating to neo-liberalism,
the independent living movement and philosophy. Simpson continues his innovative studies on
the conceptual history of intellectual disability. More recently, his work has broadened to look at the
functioning of disability in cinema – he has a commission for a book on the subject with Routledge
and is founding co-editor – with Alison Wilde – of a new book series with Peter Lang publishers,
Media, disability, culture.

Fenton’s international reputation as a researcher challenging the place of social work in the
context of neoliberalism and austerity continues to grow. Her work, whether aimed primarily at
students or the academic community, has positioned her as a key dissonant voice in radical social
work. This has been recognised in several invited keynote presentations at international
conferences.

Fernandes maintains his global activities, with strong research partnerships in Brazil, India, South
Africa and Switzerland, engaging primarily with the field of human rights in the context of
community development, LGBT in prison populations and mega-sporting events. This has been
explored in Brazilian favelas, and most recently, with marginalised groups in Scotland. His work
investigates the role of stigmatisation and penalisation of the poor and the reinforcement of urban
marginality; mechanisms of socio-symbolic denigration and spatial containment of groups
considered to be threatening and undesirable. His work substantially contributed to ICS2 along
with Rodriguez, who has herself established an outstanding profile nationally and internationally
as an emerging scholar in homelessness.



                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Smith brings a strong, internationally leading background in residential childcare, reinvigorating
Dundee’s reputation in this area. More broadly, he has co-edited the standard textbook on Scottish
social work. His research interests lie in the areas of care and upbringing, social pedagogy, social
work ethics, theorising social work and on the nature of practice. He is developing international
work around social and indigenous models of social work education in Nepal and Nigeria. He has a
particular interest in historical abuse in residential childcare and has a contract with Routledge to
publish an innovative book on the experiences of adults brought up in a residential school in the
1980s.

Staff expertise has also been recognised in invitations to review for various funding bodies: Kelly
(Carnegie Trust, Alzheimer's Society, NIHR); McCulloch (Social Work Scotland); Mladenov
(Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada); Simpson (ESRC); Smith (ESRC,
Commonwealth Fund Scholarships, Austrian Science Fund, Welsh Social Care Research Grants).

4.3.2 Contributions to the academic community
Levy and Smith, in conjunction with Manchester Metropolitan University, received funding of £20k
from the British Academy, for capacity building in African research organisations by writing
workshops delivered at the University of Nigeria. These were aimed at building academic capacity
at that institution and developing new partnerships.

Members of the Unit have made a substantial contribution to the academic community, acting as
editors, reviewers and through professional memberships. Editorships include: Fenton (Social
Work Education); Ingram (Social Work Education); Kelly (Groupwork); Simpson (Disability,
media, culture, book series, Peter Lang Publishers); Smith (cyc-online <cyc-net.org>, editor
special issues Ethics and SW and International Journal Soc Pedagogy).

Eight members sit on editorial boards for key journals in social work (including the BJSW and
Ethics and Social Welfare); disability (including Disability & Society, Journal of Literary and Cultural
Disability Studies, ALTER, European Journal of Disability Research) and other relevant journals
(such as the Bulletin of Latin American Research).

In total, staff have reviewed for over fifty journals, including major journals in social work,
criminology and disability. Furthermore, our expertise has been acknowledged in peer review
requests for journals in geography, law, psychiatry, education, sociology and health care. This
work reflects our strategic priorities as well as our general contribution to our wider academic
fields.

All of the submitted staff are active members of academic and professional bodies. This has
included chairing and co-chairing of a number of notable bodies: the Association of Professors of
Social Work (Kelly), Scottish Heads of Social Work Education (McCulloch), Sutherland Trust
(Daly), Scottish Advisory Panel for Offender Rehabilitation (McCulloch), Edinburgh L’Arche
(Smith). Through these activities and other memberships, staff enhance the professional and
academic field and stay abreast of key developments and issues.

4.4 Public Engagement and Knowledge Exchange

4.4.1 Public engagement
The Unit has organised various events engaging with services users, professionals and the
general public, including high-profile international events such as an international conference in
2017 (Promoting Inclusion, Transforming Lives) on transitions and inclusion in partnership with

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
PAMIS. This event was attended by over 200 delegates from a range of countries, professions and
sectors, including families of people with profound and multiple disabilities. Other notable examples
include Fernandes (New Routes of Discovery: Photography Exhibition); Creating Spaces for
Change, and Designing socially just institutions for 18-25 year olds in conflict with the law, both
SUII supported (McCulloch and Smith).

4.4.2 Organisation of seminars and conferences
Many other engagement events have been organised over the past seven years. Kelly was Joint
Chair of the Joint Social Work Education Conference, 2010-15; Jupp Kina co-organised the World
Community Development Conference (2019). Numerous seminars were organised around aspects
of disability (for example, studies in ableism, Campbell; austerity, Levy; independent living and
personal assistance, Mladenov; disability and film, Simpson), including as part of Disability
History Month (Campbell) and a screening of the film Resistance on Holocaust Memorial Day
2020 (Simpson).

Smith organised a conference on Social Welfare in Scotland, sponsored by Ethics and Social
Welfare. We also hosted the annual conference of the Collaborate Action Research Network in
2020. Fenton and a group of social work students organised the first Scottish event of the Social
Work Action Network.

4.4.3 Other indicators of esteem
In recognition of their expertise, members of the Unit are members of national and international
policy forums as recognised subject experts. In addition to those mentioned: Fernandes
(Observatory of Favelas as Honorary Director), Kelly (Board Member, Tayside Academic Health
Science Partnership), McCulloch (Chief Social Work Officer national meetings; National Strategy
for Community Justice Steering Group; National Strategy for Community Justice Implementation
Group; Social Work Services Strategic Forum, Scottish Government), Mladenov (Advisory Board
of the ‘Taking Disability Rights Seriously’ project implemented in 2017-2018 by the Centre for
Independent Living – Sofia, Bulgaria), Smith (SSSC Advanced Practice in SW working group).
Campbell gave evidence to the Royal Commission into Violence Towards People with Disabilities
in Australia in 2019.

REF 2021 finds Dundee’s UoA20 thriving and growing with scholars of international standing in
disability studies within our Peripheries research theme and academics bringing innovative
approaches to social work education and practice. We are able to celebrate impactful research at
home and around the globe. The Unit is building capacity through its recruitment and development
strategies and contributing to capacity building in the discipline through the expansion of research
student intake and our GCRF links with HEIs around the world.




                                                                                            Page 16
