Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of the Highlands and Islands

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 25: Area Studies

 Section 1: Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

                                                     UHI Area Studies research focuses on
                                                     remote and rural communities, with a
                                                     specific emphasis on the distinctive cultural
                                                     and natural landscapes of the Highlands and
                                                     Islands of Scotland and the peoples of this
                                                     region in the past, the present and into the
                                                     future – and on placing the Scottish context
                                                     in a global perspective. As shown on this
                                                     map, the UoA is a unique and innovative
                                                     research collaboration comprising the UHI
                                                     Institute for Northern Studies (INS) – an
                                                     interdisciplinary research and teaching unit
                                                     on three UHI campuses (Orkney, Shetland,
                                                     Perth) with associated staff across the UHI
                                                     partnership – in association with three
                                                     research centres:
                                                     •        the Centre for Mountain Studies
                                                     (CMS), at Perth College UHI;
                                                     •        the Centre for Recreation and
                                                     Tourism Research (CRTR), at West
                                                     Highland College UHI;
                                                     •        the Centre for Remote and
                                                     Sustainable Communities (CRSC), at
                                                     Inverness College UHI.

                                                    INS and the three research centres are
 strategically linked by membership of the UHI Society, Identity, Landscape and Knowledge
 (SILK) Research Cluster (REF 5a, Section 1) and regularly contribute to its seminar series and
 other events.

 The UHI Area Studies team’s research and impact strategy considers humanity, its articulation
 with landscape and society, and the products of that articulation – underpinned by collaboration
 in research projects and PhD supervision and examination. The team brings together
 researchers from diverse disciplines under the broad remit of society and landscape,
 characterised by an interdisciplinary focus with a particular emphasis on the social sciences and
 humanities. We have a shared interest in human-environment interactions, cultural
 landscapes/ecosystems, societal sustainability and heritage, and the use of different
 pedagogical approaches. Our research falls into 3 main themes: 1) Cultural and natural
 landscapes; 2) Identity & heritage; and 3) Sustaining communities and environments.

 The Area Studies submission to REF 2014 was by the then Centre for Nordic Studies. A key
 objective was to establish a virtual research institute incorporating researchers across UHI, with
 strategic links to smaller research units. This was achieved in 2017, when UHI established the
 INS. Other objectives stated in 2014 and achieved during the assessment period were:
     • new research area in peripherality studies and government policy: achieved in 2016 by
         expanding research and teaching in Island and Rural Governance;
     • development of research area in Island Studies, achieved in 2017 with the appointment
         of Jennings to the Faculty of the University of Prince Edward Island and the development
         of RETI (Excellence Network of Island Territories/Réseau d’excellence des territoires
         insulaires), a network of 27 island-based universities on six continents developing closer
         collaborations in research and education;

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •     increase in postgraduate research and taught (PGR, PGT) student numbers achieved
          with Institute status in 2017;
     • new strategic opportunities with other Universities (e.g., Heriot-Watt, Glasgow, St
          Andrews, Prince Edward Island, Malmo) achieved in 2017 and ongoing;
     • new MRes Northern Studies, achieved in 2018;
     • maintain an excellent research environment through a programme of international
          conferences; achieved through 6 international conferences.
 A final objective was an increase in critical mass for REF 2021, addressing the resilience
 agenda of the regional development agency, Highlands and Islands Enterprise (HIE), and UHI;
 this is evidenced in section 2. Our considerable growth since 2014 reflects our work on
 interdisciplinary area studies, identity and heritage studies, tourism, and a growing influence in
 developing sustainable community strategies across the globe.

 In REF 2014, staff working in CMS, CRTR, and CRSC (then the Centre for Remote and Rural
 Studies, CRRC) were reported under UoA 17 (Geography, Environmental Studies and
 Archaeology); the work of these centres was considered within the Sustainability of Social-
 Ecological/Economic Systems cluster. Within this, relevant objectives were to: consolidate and
 expand work on coupled social-ecological systems (including mountains) and their governance;
 contribute to evidence-based policy-making across the mountains of Europe (CMS, CRRC); and
 embed our growing recognition and reputation in enhancing global adventure, eco and wildlife
 tourism (CRTR). In the assessment period, specific aims were achieved through:
     • CMS participation in the Horizon 2020 project Social Innovation in Marginal Rural Areas
        (SIMRA, 2016-20) and two projects on European mountains, for the European
        Observation Network for Territorial Development and Cohesion (ESPON) and the
        European Parliament;
     • CMS leadership of Sustainable Heritage Areas: Partnerships for Ecotourism (SHAPE,
        2017-20), co-funded by the European Commission's Northern Periphery and Arctic
        (NPA) Programme, also involving CRTR;
     • CMS organisation of the International conference Mountains of our Future Earth, in
        October 2015, following on from similar conferences in 2005 and 2010;
     • CMS projects relating to land ownership and land management in Scotland, funded by
        the Scottish Government, Scottish Land Commission and other organisations;
     • CRRC projects on inclusion, sustainability and change in rural communities in the
        Highlands and Islands in Scotland, with universities in Canada, which have informed
        government policy.
     • The evolution of CRRC into the Centre for Remote and Sustainable Communities
        (CRSC), extending research and knowledge exchange to the global South. The new
        Director leads the REJUVENATE Project (funded by Wellspring Foundation) in
        partnership with the Institute of Development Studies (IDS), which develops principles for
        intergenerational research and sharing best practice with hundreds of practitioners and
        researchers across the global North and South.
     • CRTR leadership of Slow Adventure in Northern Territories (SAINT, 2015-18), co-funded
        by the NPA Programme; The Coast that Shaped the World (2019-22), funded through
        ERDF, and three projects funded by ERASMUS +;
     • CRTR initiation, development and ongoing co-ordination of the Adventure Tourism
        Research Association (ATRA), a global membership organisation bringing together
        academics and practitioners in adventure tourism and outdoor recreation. ATRA’s
        principal forum is the annual International Adventure Conference, started by CRTR in
        2012, which attracts a worldwide audience. The conference has subsequently been held
        in Norway, Ireland and Spain; the 2021 is planned for Queenstown, New Zealand.

 Our impact strategy is to help sustain local and global communities through the practical
 application of our research to solve problems, create products, and inform government policy, as
 exemplified by both impact case studies. CRTR and INS staff have developed tourism-based
 products for businesses in the Highlands and Islands and beyond. INS staff advise HIE and the
 Ministries of Education and Tourism in Vanuatu and Fiji on cultural tourism; and the Scottish

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Government (SG) on cultural matters through membership of cross-party working groups. At
 CRSC, de Lima contributes to policy development in the SG and The Scottish Parliament on
 diverse social issues; Johnson is an expert adviser for international research programmes
 funded by IFAD (on rural youth opportunities), DFID (on children’s harmful work in sub-Saharan
 Africa and South Asia) and the Expert Research Forum for the Consortium for Street Children.
 ESRC’s Impact Initiative has highlighted her ESRC-DFID funded Youth Uncertainty Rights
 (YOUR) World Research as best practice and an impact case study.

 CMS maintains strong linkages with key players in both Scotland and Europe, shapes its
 activities in response to policy agendas, and aims to contribute to these. This flexible approach
 has been essential for the continuity of the CMS for 20 years, and has enabled the achievement
 of impact arising from research, for example:
     • Global: the 2015 conference led to a special issue (vol 36, no. 4) of the peer-reviewed
          journal Mountain Research and Development’;
     • European: particularly through collaboration with Euromontana, the European
          association of mountain areas, of which UHI is a member, CMS research on European
          mountains and policy has been utilised by European institutions. One example is the
          European Parliament’s 2016 resolution calling for a working definition of mountainous
          regions and an Agenda for EU Mountainous Regions;
     • Scottish: as most projects are commissioned by the SG or its agencies, they have a
          strong interest in the application of CMS research, as do NGOs, such as Scottish Land
          and Estates (SLE) and conservation NGOs, which have also commissioned projects.
          CMS enables impact through ongoing relationships and meetings with all of these
          entities, as exemplified by the impact case study.

 Together with the policy-oriented nature of much of our research, a key factor for the continued
 expansion of INS, the continuity of CMS, and the growth of CRTR and CRSC is our
 interdisciplinary approach: using humanities, social science and ecological research methods,
 often with an economic dimension. Staff are actively encouraged to develop and apply expertise
 in new methodologies from both social and natural sciences. All research projects are evaluated
 by the university’s Research Ethics Committee and conform to the principles of the ‘Concordat to
 Support Research Integrity’ (REF 5a, Section 2). Our methods and approaches reflect the three
 pillars (social, environmental, economic) of sustainability, a core concept underpinning our
 research. As we place great emphasis on stakeholder and community engagement in our
 research practice, our research is often transdisciplinary: for example, the CMS and CRTR
 projects funded through the NPA Programme, an ongoing post-Covid project, and Phase 2 of
 the REJUVENATE Project, in which CRSC is a partner. This promotes a socio-ecological model
 linking children, youth and adults, as agents of change, to decision-makers and to their rapidly
 changing environmental and political contexts, extending impact from YOUR World Research in
 Ethiopia and Nepal and bringing learning from creative and participatory methods from
 intergenerational research in the global South to the Highlands and Islands.

 The UHI Area Studies team’s goals are to undertake world-leading inter- and trans-disciplinary
 and intergenerational community-driven research, and to extend impact – including influencing
 policy – through research and knowledge exchange with policy makers, service providers and
 enterprises in remote and rural communities. This will be done in alignment with the aims of the
 UHI Research, Impact and Knowledge Exchange Strategic Plan (2018-23: REF5a, Section 2).
 Over the next five years, we will work together on research projects and knowledge exchange
 (KE) events to achieve these aims. Our work, across the three themes, will focus on three
 geographical settings: Scotland; northern and Arctic regions; and remote and rural areas
 (particularly in mountains and on islands) worldwide. One emphasis will be on learning between
 regions, including how experiences from the global South may be relevant in the global North
 and vice versa. This work will build on recent and current activities and the excellent networks of
 the team members, both within and outside UHI (see section 4).




                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People
 Staff

 The UHI Area Studies team has an interdisciplinary and international strategy for staffing
 and recruitment.

 INS core staff comprise: a 1 FTE Director, Prof Donna Heddle, responsible for INS on all
 campuses; one 1 FTE Reader, Dr Alex Sanmark, in Perth; one 0.5 FTE senior lecturer, Dr
 Andrew Jennings, in Shetland; two 1 FTE lecturers (Dr Oisin Plumb; Lynn Campbell) and 0.2
 FTE Prof Stefan Brink, in Orkney. The Institute is supported by a 1 FTE administration officer in
 Orkney. What is now the INS was founded in 2006 by Heddle. She was joined in 2009 by
 Sanmark, from Sweden; Jennings, from Shetland; and Campbell (currently undertaking a PhD) –
 and from 2013 - 15 by Derrick McClure. Following the award of Institute status in 2017, the team
 has been joined by Plumb (in 2018), Brink (in 2019), and associate members, based at other
 UHI academic partners: Dr Lindsay Blair, Dr Ian Blyth, Dr Leslie Mabon, and Dr Steven
 Timoney. Visiting Professors, Readers, and Research Fellows contribute greatly to the work of
 the Institute.

 Core staff at CMS comprise: 1 FTE Director (Prof Martin Price), 1 FTE Senior Research Fellow
 (Dr Ros Bryce), one 1 FTE Research Associate (ECR) (previously Dr Jayne Glass and Dr Diana
 Valero; now Dr Andrew Ruck), 0.2 FTE Prof Anna Lawrence; and a 0.6 FTE administrator. Price
 established the CMS in 2000, and was appointed Chairholder of the UNESCO Chair in
 Sustainable Mountain Development in 2009. He retires in January 2021. His role will then be
 taken over by Bryce, who joined CMS in 2014 and was promoted to Senior Research Fellow in
 2018; she leads on the delivery of major projects, as well as supervising PhD students and
 teaching. Lawrence (previously Head of Social and Economic Research at Forest Research)
 and Ruck were hired in 2019; there were also four fixed-term positions related to the SHAPE
 and SIMRA projects and the international conference in 2015. A new Research Associate will
 be hired in 2021. Since REF 2014, two ECRs (who had both done their PhDs with CMS) moved
 to Scotland’s Rural College (SRUC). We do not regard this as a loss, as they continue to
 collaborate with us (in 5 projects so far); and these movements led to opportunities to hire new
 ECRs from the universities of Aberdeen and Stirling. The ECRs appointed during the
 assessment period had just completed their PhDs and are supported in their postdoctoral work
 on large research projects by senior staff.

 CRTR was created in 2012; the 1 FTE Head of Centre (Dr Steve Taylor) joined as Projects
 Manager in 2010 and was promoted in 2017. Other staff are a 1 FTE Projects Manager and 2
 Project Officers (0.8, 1 FTE).

 Prof Philomena de Lima (promoted to this title in 2019) established the CRRC in 2004 and was
 Director (0.6 FTE) for most of the assessment period. Strategic investment by Inverness College
 UHI has transformed CRRC into the Centre for Remote and Sustainable Communities (CRSC)
 with the appointment of Johnson as Director (1 FTE), Dr Alessandra Campoli (1 FTE), Dr Mandy
 Haggith (0.8 FTE) and Dr Lesley Mickel (1.0 FTE). De Lima continues at 0.2 FTE. The CRSC
 includes an ECR who is completing her PhD and the CREATE team (2 staff at 0.5 FTE), who
 promote entrepreneurial thinking and develop remote learning with UHI staff, enterprises,
 educators and researchers across the Highlands and Islands.

 Communication is key in the cohesion of this successful interdisciplinary team across widely
 separated locations. This is addressed by regular team meetings (both by videoconferencing
 and in person), online chat sessions for all staff, and cross-campus working on projects, PhD
 supervision, and events management.

 Staff are encouraged by management to take ownership of projects, to propose ideas for new
 collaborations, especially with business and other regional stakeholders, and to contribute to
 strategic planning. International projects are actively encouraged. Examples include Valero’s
 project on social innovation in the Mediterranean and Near East, developed for the UN Food and

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Agriculture Organisation (FAO) following her work in the SIMRA project, and Plumb’s work with
 the Pictish Trail team in the Highlands and Islands, funded by the Heritage Lottery Fund.

 The team is committed to the support, empowerment, and promotion of its members. Mentoring
 of staff is a priority and is supplemented by the UHI-wide scheme (REF5a, Section 3). All staff
 are encouraged to play an active role in key committees, both UHI and external, and are given
 time allocations to do so. All core INS staff, and Johnson, are Fellows of the Higher Education
 Academy.

 Staff are encouraged, after experience supervising taught PG Dissertations, to join PhD
 supervisory teams, which contain at least two supervisors. Experienced supervisors mentor
 those who are less experienced; all are supported by UHI Supervisor training and updating
 (REF5a, Section 3).

 Equality and diversity

 De Lima’s and Johnson’s research has a strong focus on equality and diversity, and the team
 follows UHI policies in this regard (REF5a, Section 3), including undertaking Unconscious Bias
 Training. These policies underpin support for research vibrancy and equality of opportunity
 according to the principles of Athena Swan and the Aurora leadership development programme,
 which Bryce recently completed. During an annual Professional Development Review with their
 line manager, staff review research achievements, request staff development opportunities, give
 feedback on their working experience, and agree new objectives and required support. Flexible
 working arrangements help staff manage childcare alongside work. All staff who have taken
 maternity leave have subsequently returned to work. Research students are encouraged to
 develop a healthy work-life balance and to take appropriate leave.

 The UHI Area Studies team has the following gender balance.

  Category                        % male                           % female
  Staff                           50                               50
  Research students               45                               55

 The UHI-wide staff development programme is described in REF5a, Section 3. Specific
 examples of activities within this UoA include:
 a) access to support (financial and time) for staff undertaking higher degrees: currently being
 utilised by Campbell;
 b) a UHI-wide sabbatical scheme: accessed by 11 Area Studies staff during the assessment
 period;
 c) a biennial UHI-wide staff (and PhD student) Research Conference at which 3 INS
 postgraduate students have won awards for their presentations.

 Funding is available for staff to attend events and conferences within the UK and overseas. Staff
 are actively encouraged to engage in UHI subject networks and research clusters (REF5a,
 Section 1).

 The UHI research infrastructure is also maintained through policies on Scholarship, KE and
 Research, and Forums for exchange of good practice (REF5a, Section 3). The UHI Area Studies
 team is very involved in KE activities, such as stakeholder evenings through the UHI KE Sector
 Tourism Group, chaired by Heddle, and the Entrepreneurship KE group attended by Johnson
 and the CREATE team.

 Research students

 During the assessment period, there were 19 PhD completions, funded by organisations
 including the Government of Oman, Forestry Commission [UK and Scotland], European
 Structural and Investment Funds (ESIF) and Scottish Forestry Trust. Currently, INS has 6 MRes

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students and 16 PhD students, including 2 funded by ESIF, 2 by the Scottish Graduate School
 for Arts and Humanities (SGSAH), 1 funded by the Edrington Group, and 1 with Heriot-Watt
 University. CMS has 3 PhD students: 2 funded by ESIF, 1 by Transport Scotland. CRSC has 1
 PhD student funded by ESIF. The wide range of interdisciplinary topics that these research
 students are, and have been, studying reflect the interdisciplinary research of the team. Their
 distribution across the three research themes is as follows:

  Cultural & natural landscapes          23       Sustaining communities and       13
                                                  environments
  Identity & heritage                    10

 The team provide a context for PhD study that is notable because the students enjoy a
 particularly close proximity to research staff, with whom they interact and work as part of a team,
 and are engaged in community-related outreach and public engagement activities. This provides
 a dynamic and exciting - and highly productive - environment for study. Students have
 opportunities to immerse themselves in a unique geographic, cultural, and environmental
 context, and much of their research concerns the natural and cultural environments close to the
 places where they are based.

 Students receive a comprehensive UHI induction, are supported within a structured framework
 including regular review and oversight and have access to a varied UHI-wide programme of
 events and workshops (REF5a, Section 3). According to identified developmental needs, each
 student undertakes an individually tailored programme of research training in their first year. All
 students are fully involved in research centre activities, including regular team meetings. They
 are encouraged to take advantage of all training opportunities and to attend the summer school
 and methods training courses provided by the SGSAH and Scottish Graduate School of Social
 Science (SGSSS) in particular, and to attend conferences, with support from internal, project
 and UHI funds. They have opportunities to contribute to teaching and the assessment of taught
 PGT assignments. Students have also gained experience through organising the annual
 Scottish Ecology, Environment and Conservation conference and other KE events. INS students
 organised a virtual student conference and the Association for the Study of Literature and
 Environment (ASLE) Postgraduate Conference 2018 and have contributed to the series of
 International St Magnus Conferences and other INS conferences. Similarly, CMS students were
 part of the team organising the Mountains of our Future Earth conference.

 As some INS research students are at disparate geographical locations, not necessarily in a
 University setting, specific measures are required to ensure a cohesive research environment.
 To maintain focus and support, students and the UHI-led cross-institution (Aberdeen, Glasgow
 etc.) supervisory teams meet online every two weeks. Further reflecting the need for support for
 isolated students more generally, INS has created a monthly virtual support group for all its
 research staff and students. This has proved a great success with the students. As CMS and
 CRSC PhD students are based at single locations, support for them is provided there.

 The research environment for PhD students is further enriched by interaction with PGT students
 on programmes available online across the world; many progress to research postgraduate
 study (conversion rate 15%). The dissertations of the taught students link with ongoing research;
 4 have resulted in peer-reviewed publications in the assessment period.

 Our commitment to, and success in, providing an excellent research environment for our
 students is borne out by the completions in the assessment period and the steady rise in
 students registered for research degrees. In addition, 6 of our PhD graduates from this period
 have continued into research careers following graduation, at universities in the UK and
 overseas, and one is Director of the Environmental Inspection and Control Department in the
 Ministry of Environment and Climate Affairs, Oman.




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 The total research project income achieved by the UHI Area Studies team since 2014 is
 £4,532855.79

 The strategy towards generating income has been successful, particularly in generating income
 from non-UK sources – from research, knowledge exchange, business consultancy, and PhDs –
 and substantial income from postgraduate teaching. This has ensured continuity and some
 growth in numbers of both staff and PhD students. While we will continue to apply for EU
 funding that is available after Brexit, our future strategy will be differentiated across the three
 geographical settings. For Scotland and northern Europe/Arctic, we will target traditional funding
 sources such as UKRI and the funding councils, and also new sources such as the Nordic
 Council, UK and Scottish agencies’ calls related to post-Covid19 recovery, and the City and
 Islands Deals in Scotland, while developing more business innovation and consultancy
 opportunities. For work in the global South, we are involved in UHI’s partnership with two
 Universities in South Africa and are well positioned to target calls from UKRI and GCRF, building
 on Johnson’s and Heddle’s well-developed partnerships with research and civil society
 institutions. The future strategy will be to develop new non-EU sources of income with our
 partners in the global South, in the light of Brexit, and more business consultancy opportunities.
 We are also developing bids for UKRI and are well positioned to target GCRF bids, building on
 well-developed partnerships with research and civil society institutions in the global South.

 The principal projects are listed below (note: partners are listed in section 4):

  Project title                         Funder                    Budget in          PI or (lead UHI
                                                                  assessment         staff)
                                                                  period
  International
  REJUVENATE (Phase 2)                  The Wellspring            £6,000             Johnson
                                        Foundation
  European Commission
  The Assembly Project: Meeting-        Horizon 2020              £21,767            Sanmark
  places in Northern Europe AD          Humanities in the
  400-150                               European Research
                                        Area (HERA)
  Preserving and Sustainably            Horizon 2020              £58,633            (Taylor)
  Governing Cultural Heritage and
  Landscapes in European Coastal
  and Maritime Regions
  (PERICLES)
  Social Innovation in Marginal         Horizon 2020              £282,726           (Price)
  Rural Areas (SIMRA)
  Balanced Regional Development         European                  £60,377            (Price)
  in Areas with Geographical            Observation Network
  Specificities (BRIDGES)               for Territorial
                                        Development and
                                        Cohesion (ESPON)
  Sustainable Heritage Areas:           NPA                       £622,806           Price
  Partnerships for Ecotourism
  (SHAPE)
  Slow Adventure in Northern            NPA                       £852,284           Taylor
  Territories (SAINT)
  Cluster Atlantique pour               Atlantic Area             £29,073            (Taylor)
  l’Innovation Technologique et         programme

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Économique de la filière du
  Nautisme (CAPITEN)
  Other countries
  Mobile/Migrant Lives – Rhythms       Social Sciences and    £10,838           de Lima
  of living and being                  Humanities Research
                                       Council (SSHRC)
                                       (Canada)
  The assembly site of Anundshög       Government of          £12,400           Sanmark
  in Sweden                            Sweden
  From traditional resource use to     Research Council of    £6,963            (Price)
  modern industrial production in      Norway
  western Norway (TRADMOD)
  UK
  Waterways in the West Mainland       British                £7,360            Sanmark
  of Orkney: A Pilot Study             Academy/Leverhulme
  From Papay to Polynesia: a study     Global Challenges      £22,000           Heddle,
  of tourism in small islands          Research Fund          £5,000            Sanmark
                                       (GCRF)
                                       UHI LTA
  Archipelagos of Adventure II: Fiji   ODA/GCRF               £12,391           Heddle
  Scots and Nynorsk as cultural        AHRC                   £12,960           INS team
  movements
  Orkney & Shetland Community          Digital Scotland       £15,091           Jennings,
  Digital Heritage                                                              Sanmark
  Estonian War Museum Project          HERA                   £21,000           Jennings
  CNS implementation project           HIE, Scottish          £166,351          Heddle
                                       Government
  The social, economic and             Scottish Natural       £7,300            (Bryce)
  environmental benefits of wild       Heritage
  land in Scotland
  Social, economic and                 Scottish Government    £9,244            (Glass)
  environmental outcomes from
  diverse land ownership
  International interventions to       Scottish Land          £23,520           Glass
  manage land markets and limit        Commission
  the concentration of land
  ownership
  The effectiveness of community       Scottish Land          £4,066            (Glass)
  ownership mechanisms and             Commission
  options for expanding community
  ownership in Scotland
  Grouse shooting, moorland            Scottish Land and      £6,584            Bryce
  management and local                 Estates
  communities
  Research to support delivery of      Scottish Government    £28,494           (Glass)
  sustainable deer management in
  Scotland
  Loch Arkaig Baseline Socio-          Scottish Woodland      £6,359            Bryce
  economic Study                       Trust

 Infrastructure and facilities

 INS has three primary locations – a dedicated building in Kirkwall in Orkney, and at Perth and
 Shetland Colleges UHI; CMS is based at Perth College UHI; CRSC at Inverness College UHI;
 and CRTR at West Highland College UHI in Fort William. These locations provide very well-
 equipped spaces, with access to the latest technology for video conferencing (VC) – UHI is

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 arguably the biggest investor in, and user of, VC technology of any Higher Education Institution
 in the UK – including high specification wifi connections (REF5a, Section 4). Staff and student
 PCs are equipped with software allowing them to join online meetings and webinars, and access
 the UHI-wide library system, from their desks. There are subject-specific libraries and rare book
 collections at both INS and CMS, as well as designated space for taught and research
 postgraduate students. The research environment is a thriving one, with opportunities for
 students to link into the UHI infrastructure through UHI’s Graduate School, which offers a full
 programme of training events, and annual research student conference (REF5a, Section 3). As
 all staff and students are therefore fully used to working online, research activity and training
 have not been compromised by the need to work from home during the Covid19 pandemic.

 The integrated nature of INS, combining research, teaching, business consultancy, and
 community engagement, helps to create a unique vibrant research environment which is
 continually developing and diversifying. INS offers an annual series of public seminars which
 brings eminent experts to Orkney and Shetland and has been put online due to Covid19; the
 seminars are recorded and viewed by people around the world. CMS has a dedicated floor of a
 building and access to VC studios. The dedicated part-time administrator supports staff and
 research students with financial and organisational administration and logistics. CRTR has two
 offices and access to VC studios, in very regular use as lead partner or partner in six current
 trans-national projects, and access to considerable equipment and resources in the School of
 Adventure Studies. CRSC has meeting/seminar facilities in which researchers can hold capacity
 building analysis sessions, KE and impact events, which reach out to teaching and research
 staff in Environmental Science, Sociology, Geography, Education, Tourism, and
 Entrepreneurship.

 Students have expressed considerable satisfaction with the PGR experience at UHI, as
 evidenced by the national PGR and PRES surveys (REF5a, Section 3) which note the
 exceptional nature of student experience. Our locations are ultimately our greatest asset, allied
 to our place-based research.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  The UHI Area Studies research and impact strategy is underpinned by the UHI Research,
 Impact and Knowledge Exchange Strategic Plan, which promotes engagement in research that
 plays to the regional focus and impact of the University’s campuses, whilst also ensuring
 international linkage and significance (REF5a, Section 2). Our area-specific interdisciplinary
 research looks at how humans interact with their environment (physical, social, economic); the
 products of this interaction; and how these products can be used to sustain the communities that
 created them. The strategy is immeasurably strengthened by teaching and research in and with
 these communities. This ensures that the ownership of their cultural identity passes back to
 them, while placing and expressing that identity in a context that is increasingly global. The
 strategy is also resilient in the face of Covid19, as we are experts in working remotely both in
 teaching and research, and in supporting remote communities.

 Conferences
 Conferences are a vital contribution to the research base. During the assessment period, INS
 organised the 3rd, 4th, and 5th International St Magnus Conferences – 2016 (72 participants, 12
 countries), 2018 (80 participants, 15 countries), 2020 (91 participants, 8 countries) – as well as
 the Rune Rede 9th Full Day Runic Colloquium (2015), the RETI Impact of culture heritage on
 economic development in island destinations conference and summer school (2015), and
 ‘Creative Orkney: Arts and Creativity’ (2014). In 2015, CMS organised the international
 conference Mountains of our Future Earth, in Perth, in collaboration with the Mountain Research
 Initiative and the Global Mountain Biodiversity Assessment (400 participants, 52 countries).
 Taylor, from CRTR, is a co-organiser of the annual International Adventure Conferences (held
 annually in the UK, Ireland, Norway, and Spain since 2014 and planned for New Zealand in
 2021). In 2016, Blair was Convenor of An Linne: The Jon Schueler International Centenary
 Symposium, at Sabhal Mòr Ostaig UHI.

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 International recognition and collaboration with other universities

 Collaboration with other universities and subsequent international recognition are primary aims
 of the team. The maps below show the extent of our collaboration in Europe and further afield.




 Collaboration in Europe




 Global connections



                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 INS provides a high-quality and stimulating environment for research and study. Our excellent
 resources and peaceful locations are conducive to meaningful and reflective research. During
 the assessment period, INS was visited by 52 academics from around the world, some on four-
 week visits and some on sabbatical, and its expertise has been sought by other universities –
 e.g. Sheffield, Faroe Islands, Newfoundland, and Copenhagen – in setting up similar centres
 and integrative research programmes. International collaborative links have been established
 with the Universities of the Sorbonne, Messina (Italy), Reykjavik, Akureyri (Iceland), Oslo,
 Vienna, Uppsala, Copenhagen, Lund, Western Australia, Bergen, the Faroe Islands,
 Newfoundland, and Charles University (Prague).

 CRSC has strong partnerships with the Universities of Addis Ababa (Ethiopia) and Tribhuvan
 (Nepal) deriving from Johnson’s long-term research with academics linked to both Universities,
 lecturing and seminars. CRSC has continued to work on impact activities with researchers and
 partners from Ethiopia and Nepal during 2020 as part of KE and the REJUVENATE Project. This
 involves collaboration with researchers based at Universities for example in Rio de Janeiro,
 Cape Town, New York and Australia (Sunshine coast) and across Europe.

 Our staff have been recognised internationally for their research. Heddle is visiting professor
 at Malmö University, and Sanmark is honorary reader at the University of Uppsala, both in
 Sweden. Jennings is on the International Advisory Board for Advanced Migration Studies
 (AMIS), Copenhagen University, Denmark, and graduate faculty member at the University of
 Prince Edward Island, Canada. Price was Adjunct Professor at the University of Bergen,
 Norway (2014-17) and has been appointed to the Advisory Boards of the Afromontane Research
 Unit, University of the Free State (South Africa) and the Centre for Mountain Research at the
 Polytechnic Institute of Braganca (Portugal), and the International Advisory Committee of the
 Canadian Mountain Assessment. Johnson is an invited collaborator on the International and
 Canadian Child Rights Partnership (ICCRP) involving Universities in Canada, South Africa,
 Brazil and Scotland.

 International research projects led by, or involving, the team are listed in the table below. Some
 of these projects started during the assessment period, but as no income has yet been received,
 they are not included in the table on pages 8-9.

  Project, years           Lead partner            Other partners
  The Assembly Project     UHI (INS)               Universities of Oslo, Vienna, and Durham
  (2010-2015)
  Anundshog                Uppsala University,     UHI (INS) (impact case study)
  excavations (2015-       Sweden
  ongoing)
  SAINT (2015-18)          UHI (CRTR)              10 other partners from Iceland, Ireland,
                                                   Norway, Sweden, UK and Finland
  From Papay to            UHI (INS)               SQA and the Government of Vanuatu
  Polynesia (2016-
  ongoing
  SIMRA (2016-20)          James Hutton            24 other partners from 14 countries
                           Institute, UK
  Managing                 Western Norway          UHI (CRTR)
  Recreational User        Research Institute
  Group Conflict
  Potential (2016-19)
  Estonia War Museum       UHI (INS)               Estonian National Museums
  (2017-18)
  BRIDGES (2017-19)        Spatial Foresight,      UHI (CMS) and 14 other partners from 13
                           Luxembourg              countries
  CAPITEN (2017-20)        Regional Council of     UHI (CRTR) and18 partners from
                           Brittany, France        Scotland, Ireland, France, Portugal and
                                                   Spain

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  SHAPE (2017-20)          UHI (CMS and            7 other partners from Canada, Finland,
                           CRTR)                   Greenland, Iceland, Norway and UK
  TRADMOD (2018-22)        University of Bergen,   UHI (CMS) and 4 other partners from
                           Norway                  Norway and Sweden
  PERICLES (2018-21)       University of           UHI (CRTR) 15 partners from 8 countries
                           Aalborg, Denmark
  Archipelagos of          UHI (INS)               University of Fiji
  Adventure II: Fiji
  (2019-20)
  The Coast that           UHI (CRTR)              West Coast Waters
  Shaped the World
  (2019-2022)
  Mobile/Migrant Lives –   UHI (CRSC)              University of Guelph
  Rhythms of living and
  being (2019-2022)
  REJUVENATE Phase         Institute of            UHI (CRSC) and partners across the
  2 (2020 - 2022)          Development             global North and South
                           Studies
  StoryTagging (2020-      Robert Gordon           UHI (CRTR) and 6 other partners from 4
  2022)                    University              countries
  Scientific Tourism       University of           UHI (CRTR, CMS) and 4 other partners
  (2020-2022)              Lapland, Finland        from 3 countries

 Our many strong international research training linkages include:
    • International Comparative Rural Policy Studies (ICRPS) Summer Institute, annually since
       2009 – involves 14 Universities in Europe, USA, Mexico and Canada; de Lima was a
       founding faculty member and has hosted visiting doctoral students.
    • Rural Policy Learning Commons: SSHRC partnership in Canada, USA, Mexico and
       Europe (2014-21), involving 21 universities and other partners; de Lima was Member of
       Executive Council and Steering Committee (2014-18) and Migration Theme Network
       Lead (2014-17). This provides financial support for doctoral students and ECRs to
       attend international conferences and has resulted in de Lima leading on two co-authored
       publications involving ECRs and doctoral students from Canada and Mexico, to be
       published by Routledge and Springer.
    • A University Capacity Development Programme (2020-24) funded by the British Council
       and the South African government to support ten PhD students at the University of the
       Free State and the University of Venda, with supervision from UHI.
    • Arrangements for collaborative PGR training with Uppsala, Corsica, and East Tennessee
       State Universities, and memoranda of understanding for Erasmus+ partnerships with
       University of Prince Edward Island and Dalhousie University (Canada), Charles
       University (Prague), University of Malta, and Malmö University, Sweden, where PhD
       student Andrea Freund had an Erasmus exchange in 2018.
    • Seminar series with CRSC partners from Johnson’s YOUR World Research, extending
       the ‘Child Research into Policy and Practice Forum’ (developed by the Ministry of
       Women, Children and Youth, Addis Ababa University, and CHADET, Ethiopia, and
       funded by ESRC’s Impact Initiative) to include youth. Affiliates of CRSC through YOUR
       World Research have also set up a seminar series on youth and uncertainty with CERID
       at Tribhuvan University and ActionAid Nepal.

 CMS collaborates widely in research projects with UK-based institutions, especially in Scotland,
 both academic – e.g. SRUC, the University of Aberdeen, James Hutton Institute, the University
 of Leeds – and in the private and third sectors. De Lima was a member of the Joseph Rowntree
 Foundation (JRF) Poverty and Ethnicity Programme Advisory Group (2012-18) and, as
 Associate Director at the Centre for Research in Families and Relationships (University of
 Edinburgh), involved in the Carnegie Universities Trust project Language, Place and Identity:
 exploring children's linguistic and cognitive development in heritage and community languages

                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (2017-19). Johnson is Honorary Fellow at the Institute for Development Studies, Global
 Associate at the University of Sussex, and Visiting Fellow at Goldsmiths, University of London.
 She is also on the advisory group for the ESRC’s Impact Initiative and on the Board of the
 childhood stream (RN04) of the European Sociological Association. INS has collaborated with
 the Universities of Aberdeen, Edinburgh, and St Andrews and the National Museums of Scotland
 on projects including the Hjaltland Network; and with the Universities of Oxford, Cambridge and
 Durham on Viking-themed projects.

 External PhD supervisions have been as follows: Price – Universities of Edinburgh, Bern
 (Switzerland) and British Columbia (Canada); Heddle – East Tennessee State University (USA);
 Sanmark- University of Uppsala (Sweden); de Lima – University of Malta; Johnson –
 Goldsmiths, University of Brighton. Staff examined PhDs as follows: Price – Universities of
 Queensland (Australia) and Cambridge, and University College Dublin; Heddle – Universities of
 Edinburgh and Strathclyde; Sanmark – Universities of Trondheim (Norway), Glasgow, and
 Durham; Johnson – School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS) University of London.

 Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries or audiences to develop impact from
 research and enrich the research environment.

 CMS interactions include the following:
   • Scottish Government (SG): a commissioned project identified research gaps to meet
       policy priorities for sustainable deer management and was a key resource for the
       independent Deer Working Group, which reported to the SG in 2020. The outcomes of
       this work are also used directly in an MSc module on sustainable deer management,
       developed and regularly updated in consultation with practitioners. Most students who
       take this module are not enrolled on the MSc, but are practitioners (from industry, public
       bodies, NGOs) who take the module for CPD. 81 students have successfully completed
       the module to date.
   • Scottish Land Commission: a series of commissioned research projects on land
       ownership, building on the Sustainable Estates for the 21st Century project (see impact
       case study).
   • Marine Conservation Society (MCS) and Sussex Inshore Fisheries and Conservation
       Authority (IFCA): community workshops on potential management measures for newly
       designated Marine Conservation Zones (MCZs) (2014-15) used the innovative
       community voice method, and directly informed the implementation of the Sussex IFCA
       marine protected area (MPA) byelaw. This combines voluntary agreement and regulation
       of commercial and recreational fishing that promotes compliance and support from the
       community, while meeting the conservation requirements of two MCZs. The MCS
       collaborator is now a UHI PhD student (Bryce is Director of Studies), continuing this
       research.

 INS works with business organisations across the Highlands and Islands and beyond.
    • Work with the Edrington Group since 2012, to completely rebrand Highland Park whisky
       with a more Norse identity, represents an innovative collaboration between a university
       research centre and a commercial business. INS staff acted as research advisors for
       brand development, product packaging design, labelling, packaging and the website –
       engaging customers in not only the product but the heritage of the island on which it is
       made and giving Orkney's Nordic heritage an international reach.
    • Blair was shortlisted for the Scottish Arts and Business Awards (International category) in
       2017 in recognition of the interdisciplinary and internationally reviewed Jon Schueler
       International Centenary Symposium, film, and outreach events she organised.

 At CRSC, the ESRC-DFID funded project, YOUR World Research, led by Johnson, has
 influenced government policies. In Ethiopia, the research has led to the inclusion of the most
 marginalised youth in the Government’s National Youth Policy, according to the Director General
 of Youth Participation in the Ministry of Women, Children and Youth. In Nepal, the leader of the
 House in the Maoist Coalition Government has committed to inclusion of the most marginalised,

                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and provincial mayors and leaders of rural municipalities now invite youth to share perspectives
 on services. Johnson also participated in an online advisors’ forum to provide expert input for a
 large DFID-funded consortium on child labour and modern slavery in South Asia.

 Wider contributions to the economy and society

    •   CMS staff have had numerous meetings with the Cabinet Secretary for Environment,
        Climate Change and Land Reform, particularly in the context of work on UNESCO
        biosphere reserves. One outcome of these meetings has been our involvement in the
        emerging UNESCO National Trail, which will link all UNESCO sites in Scotland.
    •   INS works regularly with local businesses using Innovation Vouchers (a Scottish Funding
        Council initiative, to encourage new partnerships between a company and a university or
        further education college) and similar funding to create economically viable products, e.g.
        ongoing engagement with the very successful Highland Park Viking whisky collections for
        the Edrington Group, which also led to a funded PhD studentship.
    •   INS has developed an Orkney Green Badge Scottish Tourist Guiding Association course
        and an equivalent North Highlands Green Badge programme as part of a unique
        Certificate of Higher Education, based on our research to service the growing tourism
        industry in the Highlands and Islands. This has led to the creation of 175 SMEs. We are
        currently working on a similar qualification for the Outer Hebrides, South Highlands, and
        Vanuatu and Fiji in the South Pacific.
    •   At CRSC, de Lima has served as follows: SG Environment and Forestry Directorate, mid-
        Programme Review of the Strategic Research Portfolio (2018); Member of Review Panel;
        Commission on Highland Democracy; member (2017-18); Cross-Party Group on Social
        Science, Scottish Parliament; member (2017-); Child Poverty Action Group, Scottish
        Advisory Group; member (2006-18). Her work with the SG on Farm Workers in Scottish
        Agriculture (SRUC, 2018) is helping to shape SG’s discussion on migration strategy in
        the context of Brexit.
    •   CRTR has worked, and is continuing to work, with diverse businesses and marketing
        organisations to develop slow adventure products, both within Scotland and in 19
        countries across Europe through the European Travel Commission. CRTR is also
        involved in three projects funded by the ERASMUS+ programme to develop CPD
        courses: 1) Adventure Tourism Vocational Education (2017-19), on digital tourism and
        product development for adventure tourism SMEs; UHI is the lead partner, with others
        from Bulgaria, Ireland, Denmark and Estonia; 2) Adventure Tourism Vocational
        Education and Training (2017-20), on consumer skills for adventure tourism SMEs, with
        six other partners in three countries; 3) Destination: Wellbeing Tourism Opportunities for
        Regions (2019-21), with partners in Ireland, Iceland, Denmark, Slovenia and the Azores.

 Exchanges between academia and other stakeholder bodies

 Mechanisms to stimulate and facilitate exchanges between academia and business, industry,
 and international, public or third sector bodies include:
    • CMS staff regularly attend stakeholder events and conferences held by external
        organisations e.g. SLE, NatureScot. They respond to Scottish Government consultations
        (e.g. the Land Use Strategy) and engage with the Cairngorms National Park Authority
        (CNPA) and Transport Scotland regarding their research strategies – the latter has led to
        doctoral research projects.
    • CRTR staff are regularly invited to speak as industry experts on workshop and
        conference panels – for example at the Wild Scotland conference (2019) and a European
        Travel Commission workshop on Managing Sustainable Tourism Growth in Europe.
    • Price: 1) UK representative on International Coordinating Council of UNESCO’s Man and
        the Biosphere (MAB) Programme. In 2014-16, he was vice-chair and rapporteur of the
        Bureau, and led the development of a 10-year Action Strategy and Action Plan for this
        intergovernmental science programme, which includes a reinvigoration of research; 2)
        Commission on Ecosystem Management, IUCN: Co-chair, Thematic Group for Biosphere


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Reserves (2016-21). In Scotland, Appointed Board member, CNPA, and member of the
        Scientific Advisory Committee of NatureScot.
    •   Taylor: director of Wild Scotland and Slow Adventure Limited. This company, derived
        from the SAINT project, collaborates with and assists its members to market slow
        adventures in Europe.
    •   Heddle: board member of Museums Galleries Scotland, the 30-strong Scotianomics
        Expert Panel, and the Scottish Parliament’s Cross-Party Group on Nordic Countries.
    •   Sanmark: member of the advisory boards for the Uppåkra Archaeological Centre and for
        the Gamla Uppsala Excavations, both in Sweden.
    •   Johnson: ESRC-DFID funded research partners include NGOs CHADET and ChildHope
        in Ethiopia and ActionAid Nepal, who have changed policies for work with marginalised
        youth and are implementing research findings across both countries. Government
        organisations for national vocational training have also changed their curricula for youth
        in response to the findings. Johnson is also on the Board of the Pesticide Action
        Network, working on pesticide-free towns across the UK and international research and
        advocacy.

 Engagement with diverse communities and publics through research

 Our research emphasises stakeholder and community engagement. Staff are skilled in
 stakeholder engagement processes, and have applied these in a range of research projects to
 engage with communities and stakeholder groups, both local and global, ranging from schools to
 government departments. This is evidenced by research projects and publications, e.g. Bryce’s
 contributions to the BiodivERsA Stakeholder Engagement Handbook (2017) and a paper by
 Reed at al. (2018) which discusses approaches for planning and facilitating research impact
 using stakeholder and social network analyses. INS offers public seminar series in Orkney and
 Shetland, a joint seminar series with Perth and Kinross Art Gallery and Museum, and has a
 regular newspaper column for disseminating research and a very active social media presence.
 Other engagement activities include:
 Price:
     • Organisation of international conference Mountains of our Future Earth, Perth, October
         2015, in collaboration with the Mountain Research Initiative (MRI) and the Global
         Mountain Biodiversity Assessment. This led to a special issue (vol 36, no. 4) of the peer-
         reviewed journal Mountain Research and Development, with 12 papers based on
         presentations, a synthesis of presentations, and proposals for future research directions.
     • Participation in the MRI-Europe process leading to publication and presentation of
         Strategic Research Agenda Mountains for Europe’s Future in Brussels, April 2016, and
         subsequent establishment and implementation of the Network for European Mountain
         Research (NEMOR).
     • Preparation of report Mountain Ecosystem Services and Climate Change – A Global
         Overview of Potential Threats and Strategies for Adaptation, presented at the 20th
         Conference of Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, Lima, Peru,
         December 2014, published by UNESCO in 2017.
     • Publication of Mountains: A Very Short Introduction by Oxford University Press, 2015
         (translated into Japanese, 2017 and Chinese, 2021); 2) co-editor (with Maureen Reed,
         University of Saskatchewan) of UNESCO Biosphere Reserves: Supporting Biocultural
         Diversity, Sustainability, and Society (Earthscan, 2019), the first global book on
         biosphere reserves since UNESCO’s MAB Programme was launched in 1971.
 de Lima:
     • Invited contributor to roundtable discussion of After Brexit: 10 key questions for rural
         policy in Scotland, organized by Centre for Rural Economy, University of Newcastle and
         SRUC (2017), published in 2018.
     • Co-edited book: Copus, A. and de Lima, P. (eds) (2015) Territorial Cohesion in Rural
         Europe: The Relational Turn in Rural Development. London: Routledge. Received the
         2015 Regional Studies Association Cities and Region Best Book Award.
 Johnson:


                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Invited to lead on ethics and methods for the inception phase for a DFID-funded
        consortium of academics and partners in Ghana and Ethiopia on the worst forms of child
        work in sub-Saharan Africa.

 Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base

 Fellowships
     • Price: elected Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, 2018; UNESCO Chair in
        Sustainable Mountain Development renewed for a third four-year period in 2018.
     • Heddle: elected Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts.

 Editorial boards
     • Heddle: North Atlantic World book series, Brepols; Saltire Award judge from 2018. Guest
         editor, Journal of the North Atlantic
     • Jennings: Northern Scotland; Review Editor (History and Archaeology), the Scottish
         Society for Northern Studies.
     • Price: Journal of Mountain Science (Associate Editor-in-Chief), Mountain Research and
         Development; International Journal of Biodiversity Science, Ecosystem Services and
         Management (until 2018)
     • Sanmark: Series Editor, The North Atlantic World - Land and Sea as Cultural Space – AD
         400-1900, Brepols; Journal of the North Atlantic.

 Peer-reviewing
    • Bryce: Ecosystem Services, Sustainability Science. Land Use Policy, Ecological
        Economics, Landscape and Urban Planning, Journal of Rural Studies, Journal of
        Environmental Management, Conservation Biology, Journal of Applied Ecology,
        Biological Conservation;
    • Heddle: Scottish Historical Review, Scottish Language, Innes Review, Language and
        Intercultural Communication, Weather;
    • Johnson: Child Indicators Research, Children and Society, Children’s Geographies,
        Action Research;
    • Sanmark: Antiquity World Archaeology, Journal of European Archaeology,
        Internationales Sachsensymposion, Early Medieval Europe, Antiquity;
    • Taylor: Journal of Sustainable Tourism, Journal of Recreation and Tourism.

 Review of proposals
    • Heddle: Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC), Scottish International Education
       Trust, Scottish Graduate School Arts and Humanities panel member;
    • Price: ESRC Peer Review College (2012-19), Research Council of Norway, Social
       Sciences and Humanities Research Council (Canada), Canada Council for the Arts,
       Swiss Academy of Sciences, Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland;
    • Sanmark: European Science Foundation (ESF)

 Invited keynotes

  de Lima Regional Studies Association (RSA) MICARD Network Research                     2018
          Symposium, University of Lincoln
  Heddle  Cold Water Islands Tourism Conference, Arran                                   2015
          Burroo symposium, Isle of Man                                                  2015
          Council of Scottish Clans and Associations conference, North Carolina, USA     2015
  Johnson Celebratory international symposium for the ESRC’s Impact Initiative in        2020
          Addis Ababa (held remotely)
  Price   2nd Caucasus Mountain Forum, Ankara, Turkey                                    2019
          2nd International Conference on Research for Sustainable Development in        2018
          Mountain Regions, Nova Friburgo, Brazil; also Chair, Scientific Committee
          Thinking mountains Interdisciplinary Summit, Banff, Canada                     2018

                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           Open symposium on mountain and people: regional and global prospects,     2018
           Nagano, Japan
           Mountain regions, territories of innovation, Grenoble, France             2017
           1st International Conference on Research for Sustainable Development in   2016
           Mountain Regions, Braganca, Portugal; also Chair, Scientific Committee
  Taylor   Bike Alpe Adria Conference, Dobrovo, Slovenia                             2015
           Fjord Norway/NCE Tourism Workshop, Voss, Norway                           2014




                                                                                      Page 17
