Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Liverpool

 Unit of Assessment: Chemistry

 1. Unit Context and Structure, Research and Impact Strategies

 Our vision is to advance the chemical sciences though intellectual leadership delivering positive
 changes to society and the economy.


 The progress toward the realisation of our vision since REF2014 is evidenced by the 121%
 increase in research income (§3.1), improved academic impact of our research (52% increase in
 citations per paper, SciVal report) and a substantial increase in staff (26% Category A, 4% PDRA),
 students (66% PGR, 28% UG) and support staff (270%) (§2.3) (Table 1). We have expanded and
 broadened impact generation activities (§1.3) and improved the quality of our infrastructure (§3.3-
 3.4) and embedded our commitment to equality, diversity and inclusivity in our policies (§2.1).

                                   Table 1 Summary of Achievements

                 Chemistry                                       REF2014 REF2021

                 Research income                                 £33M         £73M

                 Staff returned, Teaching & Research (FTE)       34           43

                 PDRAs                                           112          116

                 PGR student body                                123          208
       People




                 UG student body                                 364          465

                 Support staff (Analytical, Technical)           7            26

                 Fellowships                                     13           20
       Outputs




                 Papers                                          >800         >900

                 Citations                                       >12000       >20500



 1.1 Overview of Unit Structure

 The University of Liverpool’s Chemistry Department comprises of 53 academic staff (43 category
 A), 116 PDRAs, 208 PGR and MSc students, 465 undergraduate students and 26 technical and
 professional services staff. It is part of the School of Physical Sciences, along with the
 Departments of Mathematical Sciences and Physics, and sits within the Faculty of Science and
 Engineering.

 Our research activities are organised into 5 research clusters while the cross disciplinary research
 takes place within research centres and institutes (Figure 1). The principal aim of the clusters is
 to bring together common expertise from a range of sub-disciplines that can address central
 societal research challenges. Most members of staff are in more than one cluster. Clusters evolve
 and develop as new challenges emerge and research priorities change, for example co-locating
 computer scientists with chemists to address materials research. This allows us to be innovative
 and responsive while ensuring a coherent research direction.

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




     Figure 1 Overview of Department’s Research and Impact Organisational Structure


 Our current research clusters comprise:

  • Materials Chemistry (Leader: Claridge) spanning organic, inorganic, hybrid, and
    nanostructured materials, including their applications, and defining innovative ways to
    discover new materials.
  • Chemistry of World Health (Leader: O’Neill) focusing on the medicinal chemistry and drug
    development of anti-infectives, chemical biology, drug delivery via nanomedicine, bio-organic
    chemistry, anti-microbial surfaces and medical diagnostics.
  • Energy and Functional Interfaces (Leader: Brust) covers biomass to fuels and chemicals,
    thermo-materials, electrochemical energy storage alongside interface and nanoscale
    science, catalysis, single molecule electronics, fluid processing and anti-microbial surfaces.
  • Organic Synthesis and Catalysis (Leader: Bower) includes organic synthesis,
    homogeneous, heterogeneous, photo, electrochemical and bio-catalysis encompassing the
    construction of complex molecular entities.
  • Chemical Models (Leader: Troisi) innovates all aspects of modelling chemical systems
    (quantum, classical, data-based and novel combinations thereof) with special focus on
    applications relevant to our research clusters in materials, energy and health.

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Many of our greatest successes in research and impact are associated with multidisciplinary
 research centres or institutes where Chemistry is a founding member: (Materials Innovation
 Factory (MIF), Stephenson Institute for Renewable Energy (SIRE), Open Innovation Hub for
 Antimicrobial Surfaces, Surface Science Research Centre, Leverhulme Centre for Materials
 Design and Centre of Excellence for Long Acting Therapeutics (CELT)) (§1.4).


 1.2 Research Strategy

 Our goal is to produce research at the highest international level by
 • Extending the frontiers of knowledge within and beyond existing research disciplines
 • Combining expertise within and beyond the University to address current and future
   challenges, particularly in Materials, Health and Energy
 • Fostering an exciting, creative and supportive environment


 Our research strategy is defined by the Department’s Research Committee composed of the
 chairperson, the 5 cluster leaders, the Director of Post-Graduate Research, 2 Early Career
 Academics (ECA) the Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity lead, and Head of Department (HoD). This
 committee allocates resources, such as EPSRC and University studentships, on a competitive
 basis, in alignment with our research strategy, while giving priority to ECA staff and
 interdisciplinary projects (§1.4).

 Research strategy is developed with the primary goal of addressing global challenges through the
 intellectual leadership of the Department in the relevant areas, including the Regius appointment
 (§1.2.1). Information, emerging opportunities and good practice are disseminated across all staff,
 and ideas from individuals and groups are collated, discussed and developed at the cluster and
 the departmental level. Key elements of our strategy are co-developed within the interdisciplinary
 centres and institutes that Chemistry is part of (§1.4). We are key contributors to the University
 Strategic Research Themes of Advanced Materials, Digital, Infectious Diseases and Climate
 Futures.

 1.2.1 Achievement of Strategic Research Aims

 In REF2014 the Department identified 4 broad Strategic Aims (2014 SA1-4) and we demonstrate
 below how these have been met.

 2014 SA1) Expanding research activity aligned with strategic themes

 The achievements of our Department were acknowledged through the award of a Regius Chair in
 Chemistry in 2016 (only 3 in the UK). We have strengthened the area of Synthesis and Catalysis
 through the appointment of Bower to the Regius Chair combined with a £5.2M refurbishment of
 synthetic organic chemistry laboratories. We have built on the success of the Centre for Materials
 Discovery (2007-2017) by establishing the MIF (2017-, total setup £81M funded by University of
 Liverpool, Unilever & UK Research Partnerships Infrastructure Fund) and appointing 5.5 FTE new
 academic staff (Crick, Chong, Clark, Slater, Dyer), including a leadership position in theoretical
 chemistry allied to MIF and SIRE research (Troisi). Medicinal Chemistry has been bolstered with
 2 new appointments (Hong, Singh) joint with Pharmacology, to support the development of new
 candidate anti-infective and anti-microbial drugs. In Energy and Functional Interfaces, we have
 made 2 new academic appointments (Hasell, Vezzoli), maintaining the balance across our
 strategic areas of strength. We have grown the area of biomass conversion to generate chemicals
 and polymers through our MicroBioRefinery facility (£2.6M), a collaboration with Unilever and
 ABSugar. We have enhanced our excellent facilities including >£20M of open-access equipment
 (§3.3-3.4) and expanded our technical support to >20 FTE.



                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2014 SA2) Seeking new funding opportunities

 We have increased our research income dramatically from £33M (REF2014) to £73M allowing
 investment in core research infrastructure including leveraging University support to target
 external capital funding as detailed in §3.3. This was made possible by a successful diversification
 of our funding sources detailed in §3.1.

 2014 SA3) Tackling RCUK challenge areas

 We have established two new centres linking Chemistry of World Health, Energy and Functional
 Interfaces and Synthesis and Catalysis clusters to tackle challenges relevant to industry (§1.3,
 §4.1-4.3): (i) the Open Innovation Hub for Antimicrobial Surfaces (Raval), a multi-disciplinary
 initiative to develop new technologies to tackle biofilms and anti-microbial resistance; (ii) the
 Centre of Excellence for Long Acting Therapeutics (Rannard), a knowledge hub and dedicated
 laboratory to accelerate product development.

 2014 SA4) Influencing policy

 We have influenced policy through advisory roles for government (Rosseinsky, Cowan,
 Rannard), and in a range of national or international institutions as detailed in §4.5 and §4.6.

 1.2.2 Strategic Research Aims for the Next 5 Years
 The Department will expand its research activity through the 7 Strategic Aims (SA) below, aligned
 with our vision:

 SA1) Build on investment in the MIF in 3 strategic research areas: net-zero materials and
 sustainability (aligned with government’s “Net Zero” 2050 goal), smart mobile robotics, and
 artificial intelligence led materials discovery.

 SA2) Grow and enhance methodologies for the construction of complex molecules building on the
 Regius Chair appointment and renovated synthetic chemistry laboratory, also harnessing the
 MIF’s existing and emerging platforms in automation.

 SA3) Extend the reach of Nanomedicine by broadening the scope of long acting therapeutics
 including implants, injections or oral dose, also increasing current engagement with
 pharmacologists, clinical scientists and pharmaceutical industry.

 SA4) Build on the Open Innovation Hub for Anti-microbial Surfaces by expanding capability into
 anti-viral and antimalarial products relating to SA3, combining our strengths in anti-microbial
 surfaces with the Chemistry of World Health cluster and co-working with industry.

 SA5) Grow SIRE in core areas of research in energy storage and functional interfaces whilst
 developing advanced surface sensitive in operando spectroscopic tools to probe catalytic
 reactions and electrochemical interfaces.

 SA6) Capitalise on appointments in Medicinal Chemistry through developing new candidate anti-
 infective drugs, especially those tackling anti-microbial resistance, coordinating transition of
 molecules into Phase 1 clinical trials and identifying biological targets.

 SA7) Reinforce the central role of Chemical Models in our materials, energy and health research,
 integrating all branches modelling with experimental characterisation and exploiting novel
 interactions with Computer Science and robotics.




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3 Impact Strategy
 To realise knowledge transfer and commercial exploitation from our research through industrial
 and public engagement, maximising possible traction with the private sector based on common
 scientific problems and complementary expertise.


 Our Department prides itself on translating science into significant real-world impact, often via long
 term partnerships with major companies, where we act as a facilitator of growth of the regional
 economy: the primary exemplar here is the MIF partnership with Unilever. Three staff members
 act as impact leads (Cowan, Rannard, McDonald) and are supported by a new Impact Strategy
 Group (with representation from all research clusters and colleagues with experience in
 translational science) to establish major enduring external collaborations enhancing our impact in
 the UK and internationally. Our impact strategy is implemented at three levels through
 departmental policy, support and promotion.

 Policy

 Impact is embedded in our activities: resource is allocated for all staff leading major impact
 activities which could either be a PGR studentship or sabbatical support (§2.6). Impact is also an
 important factor in promotions (§2.6) and in recruitment (§2.3). All impact-generation activities are
 now accounted for in our departmental workload model (§2.6) and impact is a standing agenda
 item for all staff meetings.

 Support

 We support researchers in all aspects of translation (financial, legal and technological) and
 facilitate impact-generation activities from identification of the initial opportunity to the provision of
 additional resources. Potential impact activities are discussed with all staff members in their annual
 appraisal (§2.6) and a suitable mentor is identified. The researcher and their mentor will identify a
 broader network of support needed including working with the Knowledge Centre for Materials
 Chemistry to identify potential partners (§1.3, §4.2). We have initiated an annual “business and
 impact development camp” including introductions to IP and securing investment. Financial
 resources, awarded in line with our strategy, include departmental funded summer student
 bursaries, EPSRC Impact Acceleration Account (£572k across 22 projects with collaborators
 including Johnson Matthey, Liverpool ChiroChem and RDGraphene), and Faculty enterprise
 awards (£894k across 13 projects leading to spin-out companies CageCapture and
 TandemNano). We have been successful in 3 Innovate UK ICURe Innovation to
 Commercialisation awards (A. Cooper, McDonald and PGR Zhang) with our IP exploitation
 accelerated by external entrepreneurs.

 Promoting our Department

 We aim to promote our facilities (§3.4) and expertise in dedicated engagement events (detailed in
 §4.2) and to disseminate the main achievements through high profile press and media outlets
 (detailed in §4.4).

 The success of our impact strategy is exemplified by all the submitted case studies. Three of them
 – “Enabling the Lucite ALPHA Process for the sustainable production of methyl methacrylate”
 (Iggo), “Laboratory study of asymmetric catalysis leads to a spin out” (Xiao) and “Catalysing
 Innovation through the Centre for Materials Discovery” (A. Cooper, Rannard) - relate to
 commercialisation directly from our research. Our emphasis on public engagement is exemplified
 through “ChemTube3D: an internationally renowned Open Educational Resource” (Greeves).




                                                                                                     Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3.1 Achievement of Impact Strategy Aims

 In REF2014, the Department identified 6 Impact Aims (2014 IA1-6):

 2014 IA1 & IA4) Exploited academic-industrial collaboration and Marketed our skills and
 expertise to industry

 We collaborate with >100 companies across Materials, Health, Functional Interfaces, Synthesis,
 Catalysis and Energy research including AstraZeneca, Ansell, BP, Croda, DePuy Synthes, Eisai,
 ExxonMobil, GSK, IBM, Johnson Matthey, Lucite, NSG Pilkington, Pfizer and Unilever. We have
 secured £6M of income from UK Industries (119% increase since REF2014) and industry has
 supported >30 studentships.

 We have capitalised on MIF through a strategic partnership with Unilever R&D that emerged from
 a shared vision to transform how chemistry is done. The MIF creates digital discovery tools and
 high-value materials IP through partnership in a unique translational research facility built on
 knowledge leadership in Materials Chemistry. The combination of leading academics, open
 access equipment, lab automation, and digital chemistry creates seminal academic publications.
 MIF has become a “beacon” activity for companies, large and small, and academics in the UK and
 beyond, focusing on advanced materials, chemistry, and formulation (§3.4). Commercial
 outcomes include: new materials, faster de-risking of innovation, new business models and start-
 ups, and digitally transformed innovation. There are >100 Unilever staff co-located in the MIF, a
 further 15 companies used MIF facilities, resulting in the acceleration of >50 new product
 developments and >250 staff from external organisations received training and accessed
 experimental facilities in the MIF laboratories. Knowledge Exchange partnerships, set up as part
 of the Knowledge Centre for Materials Chemistry (KCMC), have delivered >100 projects and
 >£12M in research income for the University of Liverpool.

 Collaborative projects with commercial partners are exemplified by Innovate UK funding with 17
 new projects commenced in the REF period (>£3.2M) including Smart Responsive Antimicrobial
 Implants (Raval, Smith & Nephew) and Scale-up and commercial evaluation of the manufacture
 of bio-based precursor for polymers (Carnell, Biome Technologies and University of Leeds).

 2014 IA2) Addressed societal needs in energy

 SIRE is developing efficient generation of hydrogen as a fuel for local transportation for island
 communities and electrochemical energy in liquid and solid-state batteries extending lifetimes and
 durability (as part of EU and Faraday Institution projects). SIRE, working with industries including
 Jotun, has delivered coatings based upon nano-encapsulation which has been translated to a
 wide variety of applications, including coatings that prevent marine biofilms that could reduce the
 CO2 footprints in shipping.

 2014 IA3) Strengthened Medicinal Chemistry and Nanomedicine

 We have developed, with Eisai, a new drug candidate now entering a Phase 1 clinical trial for river
 blindness and elephantiasis. Alongside Eisai, GSK and the Medicines for Malaria Venture we have
 candidate selected a novel peroxide antimalarial E209 with efficacy against artemisinin resistant
 strains.

 A cross-Faculty partnership has co-located Materials Chemists and Pharmacologists in the MIF
 and we have developed the first ever long-acting prophylaxis for malaria which led to a $32M
 grant (Unitaid, $20M to Liverpool) to extend this for Hepatitis C and latent TB. We are partners in
 the first EU Nano-Characterisation Lab for commercialising nanomedicines, collaborators in
 optimisation of dosing of HIV therapies (USAID £50M, £4.2M to Liverpool) and have had candidate
 therapies added to the US Department of State Formulation Prioritisation List. We are
 collaborating in the first human trial of an orally dosed nanomedicine for HIV therapy and have
 agreement with Medicines Patent Pool to develop HIV nanomedicines.

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2014 IA5) Exploited IP

 Since 2014, 55 patent applications were filed and this portfolio of patent families has resulted in
 166 regional/national filings which have generated 65 national grants. 20 of the patent families
 have been licensed to commercial entities or constituted the basis for 6 spin-out companies (§4.3).
 Commercial beneficiaries include Liverpool Chirochem, CageCapture, Ceres Power, Polymer
 Mimetics, Porous Liquid Technologies and Tandem Nano. In addition, IP has been licensed to:
 Micromeritics Instruments to establish new gas sorption technologies, Mobotics on mobile robots
 for chemical research and Polymer Mimetics, a joint venture with Scott Bader.

 2014 IA6) Strengthened outreach

 We have engaged >4000 school pupils per year with Chemistry. Specific initiatives target students
 from underprivileged backgrounds and local areas of deprivation, such as the RSC funded project
 'Wirral Microplastics' which supports sessions for Y12 and Y8/9 students in Birkenhead. In this
 REF period there have been more than 5 million users worldwide of Chemtube3D developed by
 Greeves (one of our impact case studies). Additional exemplars of our public engagement
 activities are given in §4.4.

 1.3.2 Strategic Impact Aims for the Next 5 Years

 In line with our impact strategy, we have developed the following 7 Impact Aims (IA) responding
 to societal, industrial, health and economic demands:

 IA1) Establishing MIF as the main national academic reference point for data-enabled and
 automation-enabled innovation in materials discovery. As many companies are transitioning
 toward an Industry 4.0 model of innovation, MIF will provide specialist training, access to unique
 facilities and distinctive knowledge-leadership, exploiting our close collaboration with Computer
 Science at Liverpool. Our unparalleled knowledge-base at the interface between chemistry and
 computer science will benefit Liverpool, North-West and the UK. We will develop a focused
 number of strategic partnerships with large R&D intensive manufacturing companies (~FTSE 350)
 with substantial UK presence. We will extend the concept of open access to include incubation
 and deployment of seed capital, making the skills and resources within the MIF more available
 and accessible for example through links with the UK’s Centre for Process Innovation to provide
 access to support through the technology readiness levels towards commercialisation.

 IA2) Addressing future societal needs in energy through the SIRE, further developing nano-
 encapsulation coatings for chemical energy storage, strengthening industrial collaborations and
 developing next generation energy storage technologies including metal-air, solid-state batteries
 and electrochemical capacitors, aligned with the UK Government’s “Net Zero” Challenge.

 IA3) Building on strengths in Medicinal Chemistry, working with the Liverpool School of Tropical
 Medicine, to develop lead molecules against river blindness and elephantiasis affecting >120
 million people, including clinical trials of AWZ1066 in the UK and in Africa. We aim to candidate
 select a novel antimalarial and will pursue a new salt form of tizoxanide to enter clinical trials.

 IA4) Capitalising on investment in Nanomedicine by exploiting the materials/pharmacology
 collaboration more broadly, translating to “good manufacturing practice” production, performing
 human evaluations of long acting therapeutics, including for HCV and latent TB, and expanding
 our work with industry.

 IA5) We will develop, with pharmaceutical and agrochemical companies, complex molecule
 syntheses and catalytic methods easily adaptable to scale-up and devise semi-autonomous route
 optimisation, building on our recent successes in similar activities (§4.3).



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 IA6) Extending the Open Innovation Hub for Antimicrobial Surfaces through its research and
 innovation ecosystems working with multinationals, SMEs, academia and the NHS. We will
 address societal needs through, for example, the recent £6.6M ERDF programme on ‘Formulated
 Materials for Infectious Disease Prevention’.

 IA7) Outreach delivered in the Central Teaching Labs will continue to support educational
 attainment in the Liverpool City Region. Support for teachers will be extended providing much-
 needed hands-on workshops for primary teachers. In response to COVID-19 we are developing
 new material for remote delivery, that will expand the geographical reach of our outreach activities.


 1.4 Interdisciplinary Research

 Our major impacts are increasingly rooted in interdisciplinary science which is promoted by our
 research and impact strategies (§1.2, §1.3). The Chemistry Department has spearheaded a
 number of interdisciplinary centres focused on driving collaborative research and impact across
 the University. Staff in Chemistry lead interdisciplinary research centres (Figure 1) including the
 MIF (A. Cooper (Director), Rosseinsky, Rannard, Lopez-Sanchez, Troisi, Dyer, Chong,
 Slater), SIRE (Hardwick (Director), Blanc, Cowan, Hasell, Lopez-Sanchez, Sergeev,
 Shchukin), Surface Science Research Centre (Raval (Director), Arnolds, Darling, Dyer,
 Hodgson, Volk), Leverhulme Research Centre for Functional Materials Design (A. Cooper
 (Director), Rosseinsky, Berry, Blanc, Cowan, Darling, Hardwick, Dyer, Chong, Troisi, Slater),
 Open Innovation Hub for Antimicrobial Surfaces (Raval (Director)) and Centre of Excellence for
 Long Acting Therapeutics (Rannard (co-Director), McDonald). Success is indicated through our
 increase in research income (§3.1), outputs (§1.1 and Table 1) our engagement with key research
 users (§4.2), contributions to the economy and society (§4.3) and engagement with communities
 and the public (§4.4).

 Interdisciplinary research in our Department exploits synergies with other departments
 measurable from the large grant value (>£35M) with investigators from other units (§3.1). Outside
 those originating from interdisciplinary research centres, 12% of our publications were co-authored
 with colleagues from other Liverpool departments including Electrical Engineering, Physics and
 Pharmacology. Drug development activities (O’Neill, Berry, Hong, Nixon) with Liverpool School
 of Tropical Medicine contributed to a Queen’s Anniversary award for Pharmacology.

 We further promote interdisciplinarity through joint appointments with other departments (§1.2)
 and including interdisciplinarity as a criterion to award PGR studentships.


 1.5 Progress Towards an Open Research Environment

 The Department develops a combination of dedicated policies, training, and facilities to enable an
 effortless adoption of Open Research Environment practice as defined in the Concordat on Open
 Research Data.

 97% of our research outputs are available through the Liverpool repository and 63% of such
 outputs in this REF period are available “open access”. All PGR students receive training in open
 research and data management. Liverpool Research Data offers perpetual storage suitable for
 raw research data and a yearly programme of training events for staff. We are developing
 integration of data acquisition and storage with an innovative scientific data management system
 (“ParaDIME”) that securely stores data in a searchable environment and is currently active in MIF;
 it will be deployed across a range of characterisation facilities (§3.4) to enable data-driven
 research.




                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.6 Research Integrity

 We develop our policies in accordance with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity focusing
 on compulsory training on Ethics and Research integrity for PGR students and staff, with robust
 management of these matters initially by the HoD and, when independent adjudication is needed,
 by the University ethics committee.


 2. People


 2.1 Engendering Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)

 For chemistry to prosper we must attract, develop and retain a diverse community of talented
 people (e.g. https://www.nature.com/articles/s41557-020-0529-x). Developing a vibrant and
 proactive culture to support EDI is a strategic objective for Chemistry at the University of Liverpool.

 We adopt all the recommendations of the Royal Society of Chemistry’s reports on “Diversity
 landscape of chemical sciences” and “Breaking the barriers – women’s retention and progression
 in the chemical sciences”. We have proactively addressed gender equality issues in particular
 (Silver Athena SWAN award (2017) and working towards Gold). Our policies are reviewed through
 regular meetings of diversity and equality groupings at School, Faculty and University levels.

 2.1.1 Recruitment

 Our recruitment strategy has a global reach - our researchers are truly international with 54% non-
 UK and 13% BAME academic staff. We are committed to the promotion of EDI in the recruitment
 process (highlighting Athena SWAN and flexible working), ensuring transparency and the
 presence of at least one female member in every academic interview panel. In this REF period we
 have succeeded in improving our gender balance year on year from 8% to 14% (national average
 23%, RSC Diversity landscapes of chemical sciences). While this is a significant step, we
 recognise the need to improve this further across all protected characteristics.

 2.1.2 Promotion, Retention and Recognition

 We strive to provide a supportive environment for all through Professional Development Review
 (PDR, §2.6) and mentorship. Promotion criteria recognise an individual’s contributions in all areas,
 including EDI (§2.6). Since REF2014, 4 women have been promoted: 1 to personal chair, 3 to
 senior lecturer, 1 of whom is a member of an ethnic minority group. We also recognise
 contributions through staff awards, such as Clark winning the Early Career Researcher (ECR) of
 the Year Award (2019).

 Reliance on short-term contracts is partially mitigated through both PDRA and ECR awards (12
 since REF2014) which extend employment and enhance PDRA’s future prospects (§2.6). Vezzoli
 was a recipient of an ECR award and is now a permanent member of staff.

 2.1.3 Environment (Physical Space and Culture)

 EDI is central to our decision-making processes. Our departmental committees are representative
 in terms of gender and career stage and, from 2020, have a member responsible for EDI. We have
 a relatively small number of committees, each empowered to implement the policies of their action
 domain (e.g. Health and Safety, Teaching) and report directly to the HoD and at staff meetings.
 This arrangement ensures efficiency, transparency and ownership of the policies to be
 implemented. Examples of lead female roles include Head of Surface Science (Raval), Outreach
 Lead (Aspinall), EDI lead (Slater) and senior lecturers (Nixon, Arnolds, Teaching and
 Scholarship (T&S): Sedghi, Johnson). The promotion of female staff members to leadership


                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 positions is complemented by dedicated training through the Aurora programme (Slater, Clark,
 Sedghi).

 We have compulsory EDI training for all staff and arrange additional training such as
 “Understanding Unconscious Bias” and “Making Better Decisions in Groups” for recruitment and
 REF panels.

 Head of Department (HoD) has oversight of fair allocation of tasks and resources, recognising
 overall contribution and monitoring protected characteristics. This is managed through annual
 PDRs and a workload allocation model (§2.6), we adjust workload and expectations, for staff with
 health, social or family related circumstances to ensure continuation in their role. We are
 developing the workload model further, with staff input.

 We have flexible working practices to support social/family circumstances, protecting time for carer
 and family responsibilities. All departmental meetings and seminars are held within core office
 hours and we provide free childcare for Open Days. The School has a flexible working adviser to
 help prepare for parental leave and a staff-led parents’ network. The School provides funds for
 PDRAs and PGRs whose contracts do not include adequate maternity pay. Flexible working is no
 barrier to promotion into leadership roles including HoD (Berry).

 Support is offered for returners to academic roles following a career break, with Slater being
 supported through a “returners fund” over 2 periods of maternity leave, 1 as PDRA and 1 as Royal
 Society Dorothy Hodgkin Fellow. A PDRA who supported the Slater research group during one
 period of maternity leave was recognised with an exceptional performance award.

 Our culture of inclusivity is also reflected in the outreach activities directed to underprivileged
 communities (§4.4). Furthermore, we are constantly improving accessibility and practices across
 our building, most recently in the renovation of the Regius chair lab and meeting rooms.

 In the 2017 School Staff Survey, results concerning “respecting people, diversity and equality”
 (93%) demonstrated a positive culture, which we will build on aspiring to 100%.

 2.1.4 Equality and Diversity in Preparation of the REF Submission

 Oversight of all aspects of REF was performed by a group with diverse membership, which
 undertook specialist training on EDI and ensured, as part of their brief, that EDI principles were
 followed with the University’s Code of Practice.


 2.2 Wellbeing

 We have established a wellbeing group, with representation from all stakeholders, to proactively
 address improving the physical and social environment. Positive mental and physical health is
 promoted through mental first-aiders (training funded by our Department), establishing a
 “Wellbeing room” in our Department and through social events for the whole department, including
 fortnightly "coffee and cake" and "connect" events, and more widely through the "family
 barbeques". Our events include the Disabled Staff Network, support for charity fund-raising (many
 run by PGR students) and active engagement in institutional wide initiatives including the annual
 wellbeing week.

 In the 2017 School staff survey 100% agreed with the statement that “Generally I enjoy my work”
 and we seek to ensure that this remains the case for everyone.




                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.3 Staffing Strategy and Recruitment Strategy

 To pursue excellence by
 • Recruiting outstanding international researchers
 • Nurturing their talent and enabling them to flourish


 Our staffing and recruitment strategy form the basis of our vision (§1) and research and impact
 strategies (§1.2, §1.3). We recruit a balance of established senior academics (Bower, Troisi), to
 provide leadership in new research areas, as well as lecturers (8 FTE), PDRAs (116, 4% increase
 in REF period) and PGRs (208, 69% increase) to provide critical mass in strategic areas with an
 emphasis on impact.

 In line with our research strategy (§1.2), strategic aims (§1.2.2) and impact aims (§1.3.2), new
 academic appointments have been made, including in the MIF Crick, Chong, Clark and Slater
 (Materials Chemistry cluster) and Dyer and Troisi (Chemical Models) and at the chemistry:life
 science interface Nixon, Singh and Hong (Chemistry of World Health). The appointments of
 Hasell and Vezzoli linked with the SIRE strengthened the activities around Energy and Functional
 Interfaces.

 We have reduced the teaching load on research staff through 3 full time University Teaching
 Fellows, 2 (Gaynor and Sedghi, now a National Teaching Fellow) directly into the Department
 and the third (Cropper) to support Chemistry teaching in the Central Teaching Laboratory (CTL).


 2.4 Supporting Fellowship Applications

 We advertise research fellowships externally, interviewing promising candidates, with selected
 applicants given support in preparing their applications. We are proud hosts of 5 Royal Society
 University Research Fellows, 1 Dorothy Hodgkin Fellow, 1 UKRI Future Leader Fellow, 5 Newton
 Advanced Fellows, 5 Marie Curie Fellows and 3 EPSRC Fellows (§3.1). All fellows benefit from
 support tailored to their level, with duties adjusted according to the scheme (§2.6).


 2.5 Staff Profile

 Success of our staffing and recruitment strategy is evidenced from the number of submitted
 “teaching and research” staff increased since 2014 from 34 to 43 (26% increase) and the number
 of females has doubled (3 to 6) (Figure 2). An overall shift toward higher grades (Figure 2)
 demonstrates success in senior staff appointment and career progression and is in line with the
 much-improved research output and income indicators (the average age has modestly increased
 from 41.9 to 44.7). Our reputation attracts international overseas research staff and academics
 (50% non-UK new starters since 2014) with 33% of returned staff from outside the UK.




                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                 Figure 2 Gender Split and Faculty Grade Profile 2014 to 2020


 2.6 Staff Support and Development Strategy

 To provide support and development opportunities for all stages of the academic career equally,
 producing an inclusive, vibrant and productive department in line with our vision.


 Induction

 All new staff receive induction and training, including on EDI and Unconscious Bias, and are
 introduced to the University's Occupational Health service, which provides free counselling. The
 School of Physical Sciences hosts welcome events for all new staff.

 Support and Development

 Our provision is aligned with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers.
 Every member of staff has an annual Personal Development Review (PDR) discussion with an
 experienced, trained colleague. PDR enables reflection on overall contribution, plans, training
 needs, workload, career progression and recognition. Support required to achieve targets is
 provided including the institution’s training programmes in management and leadership. PDRs
 enable effective succession planning, with more experienced colleagues mentoring staff taking on
 new roles, spreading best practice. PDR is underpinned by the workload model, which aims to
 ensure academic staff have time dedicated to research (minimum 1 day a week free from teaching
 during term) while balancing teaching, administration and leadership activities.

 Recognition

 We encourage and support staff via PDRs to apply for additional increments, exceptional
 performance awards and promotion. Promotions are awarded through a University process that
 recognises research, impact, teaching, administration and leadership contributions, accounting for
 individual staff circumstances such as parental, carers or sick leave. Since REF2014, 7 staff
 members have progressed from lecturer to senior lecturer, 5 staff promoted to Reader and 7
 awarded Personal Chairs.

 Sabbatical

 Research or impact leave for all academic staff, of 1 semester following a five-year period of
 qualifying service, is operated at the discretion of the line management. Sabbatical leave is
 awarded to pursue novel research directions, including Carnell who was later promoted to reader
 through his work on biocatalysis, or impact activities, where Greeves developed a novel chemistry
 Open Educational resource (one of our impact case studies).

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2.6.1 Support for Early Career Academics (ECA)

 Further support is available to ECA:

 Induction and Monitoring

 Induction includes time with the HoD and introductions to key staff. HoD is the PDR reviewer for
 probationary staff so that necessary support can be implemented.

 Mentoring and Training

 A dedicated research mentor helps new staff settle into our Department providing advice and
 feedback on grants and papers. A dedicated teaching mentor advises new academics on
 preparation, delivery, assessment and quality monitoring of teaching. Peer mentoring is provided
 through the School’s ECA forum. New academics complete teaching training, leading to Fellow of
 the Higher Education Academy status. A programme of researcher development events is
 delivered by the School including “Applying for a Fellowship”, “Finding Funding Opportunities”,
 “Making an Impact” and “Research Leadership”.

 Research Support

 ECAs benefit from start-up funds for equipment/consumables, a PGR studentship (whilst attending
 supervision training) and a reduced teaching and administration load (30% initially built up
 gradually over the first 4 years of appointment). For example, the flow reaction system provided
 to Slater has underpinned her research so far.

 The success of our approach is testified by a number of notable achievements by our newly-
 recruited staff: International Union of Crystallography Young Scientist Award (Chong, 2016),
 European Young Chemist of the Year (Hasell, 2014), RSC Macro Group Young Researcher
 Award (Hasell, 2020), BTM Willis Prize (Clark, 2019). Conference chairing (Slater, Chong, Dyer),
 editorial board memberships (Slater), panellist in funding bodies (Chong, Slater), honorary
 academic position in international institutions (Hasell, Hong). ECA staff have been encouraged
 to take leadership roles within our Department (Hasell, PGR Deputy Coordinator, Slater and
 Giardiello EDI lead and deputy).


 2.6.2 Support for PDRAs

 PDRAs are integrated into research clusters and our research strategy (§1.2). Additional support
 is available to PDRAs (beyond that in §2.6) including the School PDRA forum. This was
 instrumental in establishing the annual Postdoctoral Development Awards (£2500) (§2.1.2): an
 awardee (Cauldbeck) is now a Unilever Research Fellow. A programme of career development
 events is regularly run including “Becoming an Entrepreneur” and “Academia into Industry”,
 complementing the University’s Prosper initiative.


 2.7 Postgraduate Research Students

 We aim to attract the very best and brightest students, increasing their number and improve the
 quality of their training and employability.




                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.7.1 Profile and Funding Sources

 Figure 3 summarises the PGR student body. The strong increase of student numbers (66% since
 REF2014) is in line with our strategy and is due to an increase in industrially funded studentships
 (>30 in REF period) and by an “International PGR fee waiver” scheme. The fraction of female PGR
 is 38%, in line with the national benchmark (RSC Diversity Report, 2018).




                           Figure 3 Number of PGR Students by Year

 We secure a range of funding routes for studentships: EPSRC DTP, EPSRC CDT, ERC, China
 Scholarship Council, School, industry and self-funded students. We have a wide variety of
 partners which include other academic institutions such as Xi'an Jiaotong-Liverpool University,
 external research institutes such as Cambridge Crystallographic Data Centre and industry such
 as Unilever and IBM. The Leverhulme Centre for Functional Materials Design (£10M) supports 50
 PGR students (2019-2024). MIF hosts an Advanced Training Centre, training PGR graduates to
 operate at the interface of physical science, data science, and robotics.

 2.7.2 Research Degree Management

 In the REF period 183.73 PGR degrees have been successfully awarded. All our PGR procedures
 are aligned with the principles of the Quality Assurance Agency.

 Induction, Supervision and Monitoring

 Students receive comprehensive induction including research integrity, EDI and support available
 outside of the supervisory team, covering health, disability, and international support. PGR
 students have at least 2 supervisors. Monthly meetings with supervisors are recorded and the
 timeliness and the records are monitored by the School PGR team.

 Development

 Professional skills development is organised by the Liverpool Doctoral College with training events
 including Communication & Writing, Research Methods, Impact, Ethics, Public Engagement,
 Careers and Entrepreneurship. In consultation with supervisors, PGRs prepare an annual
 ‘Development Needs Analysis’, which is discussed as part of their progression.




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Progression

 2 members of academic staff with relevant research profiles, act as members of the annual
 Independent Progress Assessment Panel, providing feedback and pastoral support to each PGR.
 A written report from the PGR is reviewed and discussed in person with the panel. PGRs deliver
 a formal presentation in their third year at the annual PGR conference, with our Department
 funding prizes for the best talks and posters. If annual progress is unsatisfactory or the students
 raise concerns, there are support mechanisms and robust processes in place managed by the
 Faculty.

 2.7.3 Additional PGR Support

 Our PGR staff student liaison committee meets tri-annually to address issues: from these meetings
 a dedicated space in the Department for PGRs has been established recently. The PGR and
 PDRA communities are included in decision making, including the detailed plans for resuming
 research during the COVID-19 pandemic and the development in 2019 of the PGR-led “Careers
 Day”.

 The Department funds travel bursaries to support the dissemination of PGR’s research work. A
 number of PGRs have been awarded student prizes including Wallace (subsequently UKRI FLF,
 University of East Anglia).

 2.7.4 PGR Evaluation and Employability

 From the 2019 PRES, Chemistry PGR students are in the top quartile of the Russell group
 concerning PGR resources and development of student’s confidence to be creative or innovative.

 The employability data (latest Chemistry data from Destination of Leavers from Higher Education
 survey) indicate that 95% of our PGR graduates are in work or study 6 months after completing
 with job destinations in areas closely related to their research.


 3. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities


 3.1 Research Funding

 The quality of our staff, research strategy, cluster structure (§1.2) and recruitment strategy (§2.3)
 enables us to be agile and collaborative whilst fully exploiting our infrastructure and facilities.

 Research income totals £73M during the REF period, a 121% increase from REF2014, comprising
 301 externally funded research projects placing us in the 90th percentile in the Russell group for
 Chemistry. Figure 4 shows the cumulative grant income of awards by source demonstrating
 strong performance with the dominance of UKRI funded research in-line with our strategy (§1.2).




                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                Figure 4 Cumulative Value of Research Income for Liverpool

 We attract funding from a diverse range of funding sources (Figure 4), embedding resilience in
 our income model. Notable is the 119% increase from UK industries (£6M, £2M of which from
 Unilever) and the >£150M new research grants have commenced in the period (>250% increase
 from REF2014). The Department also attracted £572k through the University-managed EPSRC
 “Impact Acceleration Awards”. Departmental endowment funds have contributed to the
 enhancement of our analytical facilities (~£400k, not in Figure 4).

 Our research strategy (§1.2) aimed to target Materials, Medicinal Chemistry, Nanomedicine,
 Energy, Functional Interfaces and Catalysis and we have achieved substantial grant award
 success in all these areas.

 The exceptionally strong funding generated by the Materials cluster emphasises the nationally
 and internationally leading nature of this activity. Materials is backed by a Leverhulme Centre
 award (£10M), Henry Royce Institute (£11M), ERC Synergy Grant (€10M, €4.1M to Liverpool),
 EPRSC Programme Grant (£7.3M), MRC (£3.3M), an ERC Advanced Grant (€2.5M), Faraday
 Battery Challenge (£2.2M), EPSRC (£953k, £928k, £916k, £902k), Royal Society (£916k), King
 Abdullah University of Science and Technology (£790k, £669k) and ExxonMobil (£650k).

 Major programmes in Nanomedicines were funded by Unitaid ($32M, $20M to Liverpool), WITS
 Reproductive Health & HIV institute (£4.5M), EPSRC (£1.1M, £1.1M, £646k), CRUK (£856k), NIH
 (£460k) and industry (£826k, ViiV healthcare; £616k Nufarm).

 International collaborations in Medicinal Chemistry have led to funding from the Bill and Melinda
 Gates Foundation ($5M, $1.2M to Liverpool), MRC (£1.5M) and Global Health Innovative
 Technology (£1.1M) for treatment of river blindness and elephantiasis. We received support from
 MRC for the development of drugs to treat fungal infections (£531k) and from industry for new
 anti-infective agents (Romark, £940k).

 In the Energy and Functional Interfaces theme staff won significant funding from EPSRC for
 CO2 to fuels project (£987k), electrochemical energy storage and batteries (£836k, £520k, £470k),
 carbon dioxide reduction (£904k), from Unilever (£2.2M, to access the MicroBioRefinery §3.4),
 from EU-FP7 (€615k) and an ERC Consolidator award (€2M). Funding has been secured to
 establish the National Biofilms Centre (BBSRC, £1.8M).

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Sizable funding has been won in Catalysis including an ERC Consolidator Grant (€1.9M) together
 with awards from EPSRC (£437k) and the Royal Society (£405k) and, in molecular electronics,
 there have been awards from EPSRC (£451k, £497k, £599k) and the Leverhulme Trust (£413k).

 Funding secured in Chemical Models is associated with many of the large initiatives above (e.g.
 Leverhulme Centre, Faraday Challenges) and theory-focused grants (ERC Consolidator Grant,
 €1.5M).

 Cowan’s EPSRC fellowship was renewed, Boulatov won an EPSRC early career fellowship and
 Adams (now Glasgow) won an EPSRC fellowship. Hasell, Slater, Vezzoli and Greenaway (now
 Imperial) won Royal Society University Research Fellowships, Slater was awarded a Dorothy
 Hodgkin fellowship and Giardiello won a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship.


 3.2 Future Funding Strategy

 To expand existing research areas, develop new ones, fully exploit enhancements in our
 infrastructure and facilities and further diversify income streams through supporting
 interdisciplinary research.


 We will target increased industrial funding, working closely with strategic partners including
 Unilever, Johnson Matthey, NSG Pilkington, BP, AstraZeneca, Pfizer, ExxonMobil, ViiV, NuFarm
 and Liverpool ChiroChem and others, enabled via our Impact Strategy (§1.3). We will further
 diversify our funding sources, such as NHS, MRC, BBSRC, NERC and NIH. Examples in place
 already include the Strength in Places grant ‘Delivering Integrated Solutions for Human Infection’
 (Raval) and the £3.5M EPSRC Prosperity Partnership with Unilever.


 3.3 Estate Infrastructure
 The Department occupies >20,000 m2 in 4 neighbouring buildings (Robert Robinson and Donan
 Laboratories, Materials Innovation Factory, Surface Science Research Centre and Stephenson
 Institute for Renewable Energy). We have lecture theatres and meeting rooms (one with virtual
 reality capabilities) available to all staff and students for seminars and networking meetings. All
 buildings have social areas for informal interactions to spark serendipitous collaborative ideas.

 There has been substantial University and external investment expanding our research
 laboratories and equipment base since 2014, including £81M for Materials Innovation Factory
 (MIF), £5.2M synthetic organic lab refurbishment (Regius Chair), £2.2M refurbishment of Surface
 Science Research Centre, £1.8M EPSRC supported programme to upgrade NMR (Blanc) and
 £320k internally funded upgrade to mass spectrometry.

 Our strategy is to focus on core strengths (§1.2), with the largest single investment in infrastructure
 in the period being the establishment of the MIF (11,600 m2), one of 8 projects supported in the
 first round of the UK Research Partnerships Infrastructure Fund. The scale of the industry
 interaction is unprecedented in the UK in the area of Materials Chemistry, with >100 industry users
 co-located. Our expertise in Materials Chemistry, combined with unparalleled open-access
 facilities (>£20M, §3.4) and dynamic support infrastructure, enables revolutionary research and
 development in the MIF. Research activity includes Organic Materials (A. Cooper), Inorganic
 Materials (Rosseinsky), Nanomedicines (Rannard), Sustainability (Lopez-Sanchez), and High
 Throughput Formulation and Automation. The MIF houses the Leverhulme Research Centre for
 Functional Materials Design, created to drive a design revolution for functional materials at the
 atomic scale. This centre bridges the current design gap by fusing leading-edge synthesis
 concepts from the physical sciences with ideas from the forefront of computer science, alongside
 experts in robotics, engineering, management and social science. MIF hosts the Materials
 Chemistry spoke of the Henry Royce Institute, the UK’s national institute for materials science

                                                                                                 Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research and innovation. A distinctive innovation ecosystem of lab-robotics and digital companies
 has developed involving Croda, CSols, Labman, and Chemspeed all co-located in MIF. Research
 outputs include >25 papers in Science and Nature Journals.

 Our Radio Materials Laboratory, created with Unilever, is a unique facility within the UK for
 generating traceable soft materials and drug compounds and was crucial for the human trials of
 the world’s first orally dosed nanomedicine for HIV therapy.

 Our Central Teaching Laboratory won a Higher Education Academy 2016 Collaborative Award for
 Teaching Excellence and embeds ‘research-led teaching’ in our degree programmes.

 A £1B Estate Strategy has been approved by University Council (2017) and identified Chemistry
 as of long-term strategic importance, recognising the significant strengths of our research,
 enabling us to grow research activity in line with our ambitions (§1.2).


 3.4 Operational and Scholarly Infrastructure

 Any researcher or collaborator (academic or industrial SME or large corporation) can access our
 state-of-the-art facilities for research or impact projects or to trial ideas to support grant
 applications. Facilities usage is monitored and action taken if necessary with regard to EDI.

 3.4.1 Technical and Business Development Staff

 Communal facilities enable the efficient use of funds and encourage interdisciplinary research
 (§1.4). The MIF and Analytical Services equipment base (§3.4.2) are centrally shared and
 maintained with >20 dedicated staff (technical and business development) supporting our
 research activities. A user forum enables technical expertise to be shared and informs future
 strategic equipment needs. Technical staff engage with our research activities and frequently
 appear as co-authors of research outputs, including Robertson, 18 publications and Clowes, 43
 publications since REF2014. The Department has a dedicated Safety Officer (Jones -2020,
 Bergqvist Lane 2020-) to coordinate safety policy, training, induction and implementation. The
 Department is 100% compliant in HASMAP at the “substantial” level and is working towards “high”.

 An overview of the University professional services including research support and library service
 is provided in the University environment statement (§4).

 3.4.2 Core instrumentation and cutting-edge capabilities

 We discuss below the most distinctive aspects or our vast range of equipment.

 Chemical analysis

 Advanced NMR spectroscopy provision include 6 solution state instruments ranging from 200 to
 500MHz (with a cryoprobe), shared access to 600 and 800MHz (with cryoprobes), high pressure
 NMR capability and 3 solid-state NMR instruments (400MHz and 800MHz – 3rd highest field in the
 UK for solid-state). These facilities are managed by a dedicated specialist (Luzyanin) or by the
 research groups (Blanc, Iggo) and provide structural determination of samples across all our
 experimental clusters (§1.2). More than 200 users per month (PGRs, PDRAs) and all
 undergraduate students access the NMR facilities, analysing >60,000 samples each year.

 Laser spectroscopy apparatus for femtosecond to nanoseconds transient UV/Vis spectroscopy
 enables detailed in situ analysis of charge carrier dynamics of photoactive materials and
 molecules. We have leading capabilities in broad-band Sum-Frequency Generation (Arnolds,
 Cowan), one of only 3 systems in the UK, and apparatus for femtosecond to milliseconds transient
 spectroscopy (Volk, Cowan). High resolution XPS instruments (Raval) are operated for the

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 determination of both elemental and chemical states in anti-microbial surfaces and in situ
 electrochemistry, complementing a number of in situ Raman and IR apparatus.

 Diffraction facilities are a suite of 5 powder and 3 single crystal X-ray diffractometers with small
 angle capabilities, a wide range of sources (Co, Cu, Mo) and temperature stages for range of
 experiments from 12 to 1500 K currently solving >150 crystal structures per year. As part of pulsed
 laser deposition units, we have a KrF laser and a RHEED instrument for in situ monitoring of thin
 film growth.

 Microscopy facilities include a comprehensive array of techniques to probe surface and interfaces
 of materials and include a suite of state-of-the-art UHV scanning probe microscopes with STM
 (Hodgson, Nichols, Raval), SEM with enhanced spatial resolution FIB and cryostage, EDS and
 WDS spectroscopies apparatus, SVET (Shchukin) coupled with high performance IR camera, as
 well as AFM and Raman.

 Chromatography and mass spectrometry capabilities have been greatly expanded and now
 include a flow system (Slater), supercritical fluid chromatography, imaging MS, preparative HPLC
 (Myers) and GC, many of these are coupled with mass spectrometry instruments. Over 2400
 samples are analysed by mass spectrometry each year.

 Dedicated instrumentation gives access to a range of materials properties including magnetic
 (PPMS, MPMS), electrical (e.g. AC Impedance), thermal (e.g. TGA, DSC, Gas sorption),
 rheological and optical (e.g. time resolved fluorescence).

 Automation and Robotics

 The MIF is at the forefront of developing cutting-edge technologies in automated robotic equipment
 for the creation of new materials, including the bespoke £2.5M Formulation Engine. Robotics
 facilities include automated formulation platforms with 4 mixing stations preparing up to 800
 formulations in 24 hours, dispensers for viscous material and powders, units to measure ionic
 transport and 2 high throughput rheometers. We have developed a revolutionary new technology
 of autonomous mobile robotic chemists plus an integrated suite of reaction and measurement
 stations in NMR, XRD, HPLC-MS to be used by these robots that have been highlighted in Nature
 (A. Cooper, Figure 5). The MicroBioRefinery (Lopez-Sanchez) enables high-throughput
 conversion of biomass, via bio- and chemo-catalytic routes, to high value chemicals.




  Figure 5 Smart Autonomous Mobile Robot Performing Photocatalyst Discovery Without
     Human Guidance (Figure adapted from https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-020-2442-2)


                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Formulation Facilities

 Our Ultra Mixing and Processing Facility (UMPF, Shchukin) is a bespoke facility, home to the
 Controlled Deformation Dynamic Mixer which works from the bench (mg) to the pilot-plant (tonnes)
 scale and is designed to access extreme processing space at pressures of up to 5000 bar, flow
 rates of 1/2 tonne per hour, and rotor speeds of up to 20,000 rpm. Our MIF formulation
 measurement facilities provide tools for characterisation and stability assessment of materials with
 complex microstructures from the nanometre up to the millimetre.

 3.4.3 Computing Facilities

 Free access to high-performance computing facilities is provided centrally by the University to
 promote shared use of high-value facilities and include an HPC system with 4200 CPU cores plus
 dedicated GPU nodes. The Chemical Models cluster has secured access to further national
 (ARCHER) and international (PRACE) computer resources enabling large scale parallel
 computations that contributed to some of the unit’s most significant research outputs, including 19
 papers in Science or Nature family journals.

 3.4.4 Technical tools

 Examples of novel tools developed in Liverpool include:
    • Novel instrumentation: IR-Vis Sum-Frequency spectroscopy (Cowan), UMPF upgrade
       (Shchukin), Central archive of NMR data (Iggo).
    • New Software/Database: Crystal Structure Prediction Software FUSE, MC-EMMA,
       ChemDASH (Dyer, Darling, Rosseinsky), Charge mobility calculation code TransLoc
       (Troisi), Contributors to electronic structure calculation software MOLPRO (D. Cooper)
       and ONETEP (Teobaldi).


 3.5 Instrumentation Outside the University

 We access national and international research facilities, notably at the Institut Laue-Langevin
 (France), STFC including ISIS, DIAMOND and the Central Laser Facility, EPSRC including NMR
 and EPR, and the American Light Source and Mag Lab (USA). Competitive access to these
 facilities has been awarded worth >£6M which led to outputs including in Nature Physics.


 3.6 Consultancies and Professional Services

 Consultancy is encouraged (via PDR, §2.6) to foster professional development, generate impact
 and develop contacts with industry. Since 2014, the University CONSULT framework has brokered
 27 commercial consulting projects (£785k) between researchers in the Department and clients
 include spin-outs, high-growth start-ups, and large multinationals (e.g. Boots, M&I Materials,
 Solvay, ExxonMobil). These relationships help inform our research and impact strategies (§1.2,
 §1.3).


 4. Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society


 4.1 Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

 In line with our strategy (§1.2), we are dedicated to enhancing collaboration at the individual,
 institutional and extra institutional level.




                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We support individual researchers to grow their networks and develop collaborations through 22
 Impact Acceleration Account awards, strategically allocating PGR studentships, our strong base
 of facilities and analytical equipment and providing physical space for hosting workshops and
 conferences (§4.5). We strongly advocate for our academic staff to take up visiting or honorary
 academic positions: 18 honorary appointments within international academic institutions have
 been taken up by 11 staff members in this REF period. We enthusiastically support incoming visits
 of scientists at all career stages – hosting long-term visits of 43 post-graduate students, 34
 postdoctoral researchers or permanent academics and 9 competitively funded postdoctoral
 fellowships including Marie-Curie and Newton fellowships.

 We enhance cross-disciplinary activities through our role as founding members of several
 multidisciplinary research centres (§1.1, §1.4) reflecting our belief that major chemistry
 developments are increasingly rooted in interdisciplinary science. We enhance cross-disciplinary
 activities through strategic decision making on new academic appointments (§2.3), facility
 upgrades (§3.3-3.4) and support for fellowship applications (§2.4, §2.6). We have joint projects
 with >10 departments in the institution, 70% of all our grants by value are collaborative and, of
 these, 27% are interdepartmental (>10% of our PGRs have co-supervisors outside Chemistry).

 We believe that external networks and partnerships are essential to maximise the societal and
 economic impact of our research (§4.3). Our Impact Strategy group (§1.3) is dedicated to
 establishing and supporting major, long-term, collaborations with partners across the public,
 private and third sectors. Our current and developing strategic partnerships include: Materials
 Innovation: Unilever (also supported through capital investment), Henry Royce Institute, Centre
 for Process Innovation, National Biofilm Innovation Centre; Medicinal Chemistry: GlaxoSmithKline,
 AstraZeneca, Anacor, Romark Pharmaceutical and establishing the Liverpool-Guangdong
 University of Technology Joint Laboratory for Drug Discovery; Energy: NSG Pilkington, Ceres,
 Faraday Institute.

 We proactively engage with national and international funders to promote a sustained exchange
 of scientists hosting visits from the China Scholarship Council and King Abdullah University of
 Science and Technology. This has enabled us to diversify joint-research projects in response to
 global challenges from the: Royal Society - Newton Advanced Fellowships; European Commission
 – University of Liverpool led consortia on rechargeable batteries; NIH (USA) – Reverse
 Transcriptase Inhibitors therapies for HIV; Unitaid (UN) – anti-malarial drugs; Global Heath
 Innovation Technology Fund (Japan) – anti-Wolbachia drugs; Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation
 – anti-infective agents.

 Aggregated indicators show that the Department of Chemistry is highly successful in turning its
 networks and partnerships into world-class research. Of >900 Chemistry papers published since
 2014, >74% have a non-Liverpool author, and >54% have a non-UK based co-investigator (SciVal
 report).


 4.2 Engagement with Key Research Users

 The Department of Chemistry has developed a unique approach to translation science. Our unit
 is a founding partner of the Knowledge Centre for Materials Chemistry (KCMC), with a KCMC
 knowledge transfer manager based within Chemistry (McBride, 0.5 FTE). Both our Materials
 Innovation Factory (2017-) and previously our Centre for Materials Discovery (2007-2017) are
 founded on the Liverpool Model, encouraging external parties to provide guidance on industry
 drivers and needs, and to use our world-leading departmental facilities and leverage our academic
 expertise and knowledge leadership. The Liverpool Model has generated a high level of
 engagement, with industrial research users embedded on campus from 12 different companies
 within CMD (2014-2017) and 6 within the MIF over the REF period. To realise the full potential of
 academic-industrial partnerships, and the wider economy, one of Unilever’s R&D leaders (Reed)
 began a long-term secondment to the MIF as a Strategic Director in 2019 to exploit the key


                                                                                           Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 learnings from the success of the Unilever-Liverpool partnership and create a range of high-impact
 strategic partnerships with other R&D intensive UK manufacturers.

 Our research strategy stems from consultation with end-users across the private sector,
 engagement with learned societies (§4.5) and specialist research domains (§4.6). We complement
 University level initiatives (led by our Research, Partnership and Innovation team) with our own
 bespoke activities, dedicated staff and promotional materials (§1.3), including advertising
 externally at major international industry events such as the Shanghai International Fair. We host
 an annual Liverpool Industry-Chemistry Engagement event (attracting over >100 companies
 across 2018 and 2019) providing an opportunity for our academics, existing and potential industrial
 partners and funders to collaborate.


 4.3 Contributions to the Economy and Society

 Our broad and flexible engagement pathways have led to significant and far reaching economic,
 societal and environmental impacts including: 6 spin-out companies, 20 licencing agreements, 27
 consultancy projects, >30 industry/academia joint PGR students (including with Unilever, IBM,
 NSG Pilkington, Johnson Matthey, Croda, ExxonMobil, Arkema), 55 patent families filed and
 involvement on >25 advisory boards during this REF period.

 Spin-out companies launched within the REF period include Liverpool ChiroChem (Xiao), Porous
 Liquid Technology (A. Cooper), Cage Capture (A. Cooper), Mobotics (A. Cooper) Polymer
 Mimetics (Rannard, jointly Scott Bader) and Tandem Nano (Rannard). These companies have
 received high levels of financial backing (>£6M) and are generating economic benefit through the
 creation of jobs, with Liverpool ChiroChem alone generating >60. Cage Capture won the RSC
 Emerging Technologies prize in 2016 and was a finalist in the Nature Spinoff Prize 2020.

 The MIF and its predecessor CMD have engaged with >25 companies during the REF period, and
 their importance are recognised in the Liverpool City Region’s science and innovation audit, which
 lists Materials Chemistry as one of three regional strengths. For Unilever, the lead partner in the
 CMD and MIF, new products launched in the REF period based on research carried out in these
 2 specialist chemistry academic led centres are achieving sales of >€500M p.a. (details in our
 impact case study “High Throughput Polymer Discovery through the Centre for Materials
 Discovery”). Our strength in automated materials chemistry has led to Unilever re-focussing this
 research in the North West UK (Ellesmere Port). Furthermore, the specialist equipment developed
 and used by the MIF academics has led to new products being launched, such as by Micromeritics
 Instruments, and the relocation and expansion of Chemspeed UK to within the MIF.

 Within the SIRE, coatings based upon nano-encapsulation (Shchukin) are being translated into
 products for thermal management of buildings and as antifouling coatings for shipping with large
 reductions in CO2 emissions being achieved on test fleets.

 Working with Iggo, Lucite funded PGR students and have filed 2 new patents for conditions and
 catalysts (2016, 2018) for the second stage of the ALPHA methyl methacrylate production method
 – a process which has led to the elimination of 130 ktonne p.a. waste and generated >$1.4 Bn in
 revenue.

 Over this REF period, BP’s (now INEOS) AVADA process for the synthesis of ethyl acetate
 (Kozhevnikov REF2014 impact case) has grown by 30% to >300 ktonne p.a. (2017).

 Research from Medicinal Chemistry and Nanomedicine has contributed to 3 clinical trials within
 this REF period. Nanomedicine has contributed to 2 world-first human clinical trials (first orally
 dosed nanomedicine trials for HIV). The Abbvie compound ABBV-4083, developed in
 collaboration with the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine, designed to treat the tropical diseases
 river blindness and elephantiasis which affect >120 million people, is entering Phase 2 trials.


                                                                                               Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.4 Engagement with Communities and the Public

 Outreach initiatives are now integral to our core departmental activity, included in an individuals’
 workload and considered within promotion and sabbatical leave cases. The diversity of activities
 is exemplified below:
     • Museum Exhibitions including the creation of a Royal Society Summer Science exhibition
        called “The Hole Story” (2017, 14,000 attendees), and exhibiting at Tate Liverpool (2018),
        Royal Albert Hall “Illuminating Atoms” (2014), and Big Bang North West fair (2019).
     • Public Lectures at science fairs such as Pint of Science, Wirral Arts Festival, Liverpool
        LightNight, SciBar, Science in the Snug, Science in the City, AAAS Science Webinar with
        a total of more than 35 lectures related to our research.
     • Workshops for Schools and Colleges Our hands-on activities reach ~1000 students p.a.
        across the Northwest, targeting local underprivileged areas. Many are research-themed
        including practical nanotechnology workshops, and are delivered by a diverse set of
        academics, research staff, and PGR students. The menu of activities is refreshed yearly
        by UG project students.
     • Outreach for school teachers through 4 specialised lectures at teachers’ conferences, and
        the development of novel teaching materials for chemistry teachers, such as resources on
        molecular modelling for post-16 chemistry and biology students’ as part of the National
        STEM Centre (Berry).
     • Development of Diversity and Equality by participating in dedicated policy forums. Our
        academics give lectures and sit on panels within LivWiSE (Liverpool Women in Science &
        Engineering) events (Nixon) and have engaged with UKRSA to look at the needs of
        researchers taking periods of parental leave (Slater).
     • We proactively engage with local, national and international print and broadcast media
        including opinion pieces in the New Statesman and our work on robotic chemistry (A.
        Cooper) was covered by the BBC (World, News, Radio 2 and 4 and all local radio stations).


 4.5 Contribution to the Sustainability of the Discipline

 Chemistry is a constantly evolving discipline that relies on learned societies and peer reviewed
 journals to promote its achievements and drive innovation. It also requires active participation in
 the operation of funding bodies and national facilities to maximise the benefit of public investment.
 We are involved:
     • In learned societies, where 10 staff members have served as a committee member in this
         REF period, and researcher associations, where Slater chaired the UK Research Staff
         Association and the Royal Society Research Fellows Network.
     • As Editors of peer reviewed journals, including Biocatalysis and Biotransformation
         (Carnell), Journal of Molecular Catalysis A (Xiao), Electrochimica Acta (Hardwick),
         Nanomedicine (Rannard), Chemical Science (A. Cooper); 12 staff members contribute to
         the editorial or advisory board of 16 scientific journals from RSC (5), ACS (4), Wiley (4)
         and others.
     • As members of the scientific committee of national facilities, including Chair ISIS FAP1 and
         SIG3-ECA (Claridge), Facility Access Panel for STFC Lasers for Science (Volk) and
         Diamond (Claridge, Chong), ISIS (Clark) and allocation panel for UK solid-state NMR
         National Research Facility (Blanc).
     • Contributing to national (EPRSC and RSC) and international (EU, South Korea, Saudi
         Arabia) funding bodies as panellists (16), chairs of panels (2) or as an advisor (EPSRC
         Council member, Rosseinsky).
     • Redefining the disciplinary landscape by organising conferences/workshops with 50
         events organised by Liverpool staff members including symposia in established
         conferences such as Materials Research Society and large international conferences
         including Materials Chemistry 13.


                                                                                               Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Advancing the discipline by publications that consolidate knowledge and set possible
        roadmaps. Over 150 reviews and perspective papers (receiving >12,000 citations, Web of
        Science) have been published by our Department in addition to a scholarly book (Zhang).


 4.6 Wider Influence and Contribution to the Research Base

 Our staff members are encouraged to leverage their scientific knowledge leadership nationally
 and internationally to drive policy development:
    • Government advisory roles. Our staff has membership in the Science Minister’s Advanced
        Materials Leadership Council (Rosseinsky), and the Innovate UK Emerging Technologies
        & Industries Steering Committee (Rannard). We also contribute to the development of UK
        government briefing papers, with examples including “The opportunities and limitations of
        CO2 utilisation” (Rosseinsky, Cowan, Xiao), “Green Hydrogen” (Cowan), and
        “Sustainable Synthetic Fuels for Transport” (Rosseinsky) as well as policies on national
        facilities, including the STFC Neutron Strategy Review 2017 (Rosseinsky).
    • Advisory or steering roles are taken up in external national institutions including the
        Wellcome Trust (Nixon), Carnegie Trust (Rannard), NPL, Cardiff Catalysis Institute
        (Rosseinsky); international institutes and bodies like the Max Planck Institute for Solid
        State Research, Max Planck Institute for Microstructure Physics, US Department of Energy
        Materials Synthesis Review, CICECO-Aveiro (Rosseinsky), Chemistry Department at HK
        University of Science, Chemistry Department at Shanghai Jiao Tong University,
        International Center for Chemical and Biological Sciences at University of Karachi (Xiao),
        the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (A. Cooper), Medicines for Malaria Venture
        (O’Neill), IMDEA Nanoscience Centre, Madrid, School of Chemical Technology, Aalto
        University (Raval), as well as private companies including RDGraphene (Hardwick),
        Gilead, Scott Bader (Rannard).
    • Active roles in National Networks addressing specific challenges include UK Solar Fuels
        Network (Cowan, chair from 2020), Dial-a-Molecule (Slater, steering board), Directed
        Assembly Network (Slater, committee member), COVID-19 preclinical drug development
        and N8 Chemical Biology initiative (O’Neill, advisory boards), BIOCATANET, CoEBio3
        (Carnell), Connect NMR UK (Blanc).
    • Important recognitions received by our staff include: Rosseinsky, Royal Society Research
        Professor 2013-, re-awarded 2018; Royal Society Davy Medal 2017; A. Cooper Elected
        Fellow of the Royal Society 2015; Royal Society Hughes Medal 2019; Bower RSC
        Hickinbottom Prize 2015; Philip Leverhulme Prize 2016; Nichols RSC Geoffrey Barker
        Medal 2016; Xiao RSC Tilden Prize 2020.




                                                                                           Page 24
