Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Institution: University of Stirling
 Unit of Assessment: C17 Business & Management Studies
 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context

 Research within Stirling Management School (SMS) helps deliver the School’s overall mission of
 contributing to knowledge and learning through responsible and sustainable business, policy and
 practice. Our research has a strong focus on policy and organisational behaviour change,
 enabling organisations to deliver wellbeing and societal objectives, alongside economic growth.

 In 2014 our REF submission reflected our stated aim of seeking effective ways of improving
 business, society and lives through academic excellence. The emphasis was on responsible
 leadership, successful organisations and sustainable societies, whilst creating impact through
 contributions to debate, public policy and management practice. Our strategy then was to:

     •   develop and invest in our four disciplinary divisions and a small number of specialist School
         based centres (including Social Marketing, Retail Studies and Behavioural Science)
     •   provide mentoring schemes and other mechanisms to support academic colleagues,
         research staff and postgraduate students at all career stages.

 During the current REF period we have reviewed this strategy, to prioritise and deliver research
 initiatives within our established areas of expertise and to be agile in embracing new opportunities
 arising from emerging societal issues. In alignment with the University research strategy, with its
 three cross-disciplinary priority research themes and associated research programmes, we have
 introduced a set of mission driven School-level research themes and invested in a set of new
 academic and early career post-doctoral appointments, as we continue to build on a supportive
 and collegiate research culture.

 Strategy

 Our goal as a Management School is to stimulate policy and behaviour change to address
 economic and societal challenges. This requires an approach beyond the traditional disciplinary
 boundaries within business and management. Given the University and School (as well as
 Scottish Government) mission, we have adopted the UN Sustainable Development Goals (UN
 SDGs), as the underpinning framework for our research strategy, in order to shape our priorities
 and act as the focus for the impact of our research on real world issues.

 Our research strategy is to:

     •   focus on real world challenges through a set of mission based inter-disciplinary school
         research themes to identify solutions within a regional and global context
     •   build on existing (and develop new) strengths within our disciplinary areas reflecting the
         expertise and academic curiosity of colleagues to build core competences and capacity
     •   embed the concepts of impact and public engagement throughout our research and
         other knowledge transfer dissemination activities to contribute to economic and societal
         growth
     •   provide an inclusive, transparent and supportive research culture creating the time
         and space for academic colleagues and research students to develop at all stages of their
         careers



                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 This strategy is the outcome of an environmental scanning process and widespread consultation
 with colleagues to ensure that it is owned and understood and that we benchmark our research
 activities against business\management schools of a similar size and composition to measure
 performance and establish appropriate KPIs.

 Our strategy is dynamic and continues to evolve through a process of reflection and refinement to
 ensure that it is aligned with the University research themes and programmes, remains relevant
 and is positioned to take advantage of the changing external landscape particularly the sector-
 wide focus on societal needs and challenges, the UK R&D Roadmap and NCUB Research to
 Recovery report. At a regional level, the Stirling and Clackmannanshire City Region Growth Deal
 and the Scottish Scale Up project will provide further opportunities to demonstrate the value of our
 research in the future.

 1.   develop a set of mission based inter-disciplinary school research themes

 Based on our existing strengths and core competencies we have identified five School research
 themes, crossing traditional disciplinary boundaries within business and management to generate
 different perspectives and solutions to major societal challenges. These themes are aligned to
 specific UN SDGs but are flexible to enable us to anticipate and respond to emerging issues at
 regional, national and international level and to proactively seek research opportunities and
 synergies across these themes. The School themes are also designed to contribute to the three
 University research themes: Cultures, Communities and Society; Global Security and Resistance;
 and Living Well.




      •   Informing Sustainable Communities: addresses the impacts of change on global and
          local communities, places and spaces including digital lives and smart cities, through our
          research in resource economics; the role of town and city centres; environments & ageing;
          and grassroots and community organisations.
      •   Transforming Consumption & Production Markets: investigates change in the
          consumption and production lifecycle, bridging the gap between business, markets and
          consumer behaviours, through our research in retailing and supply chains; consumer
          behaviour; sustainability and consumption markets.
      •   Supporting Healthy Behaviours: examines why people make the decisions they do, and
          how societies can better support a healthy population at all stages of life, through our


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


              research into nudging behaviours; medical tourism; the management & organisation of
              healthcare; wellbeing, and public health economics.
      •       Understanding Decent Work: addresses workplace challenges related to diversity,
              inclusion, new technologies, innovation and the impact on employment through our
              research on human capital; working lives; un\under-employment, employability and skills.
      •       Exploring Sustainable Organisations: explores changes in organizational structures
              and the processes, systems and governance mechanisms that drive sustainable economic
              development and wellbeing, through our research on co-production and co-creation; the
              responsible use of digital technologies and data; start-ups and SMEs; organizational
              accountability; change and leadership.

 Through these five School research themes we actively encourage colleagues, from our four
 disciplinary based Divisions (Accounting & Finance; Economics; Management Work &
 Organization [MWO]; Marketing & Retail), to provide cross-disciplinary management perspectives
 to the same underlying challenge, for example in:

          •    Transforming Consumption and Production Markets, research on employment and global
               value chains in MWO links to retail internationalisation and supply chain relationship
               research in Marketing & Retail,
          •    Supporting Healthy Behaviours, public health research in Economics has synergies with
               research on the management and organisation of healthcare in MWO
          •    Understanding Decent Work, work, well-being and research on ageing populations in
               Economics integrates with the quality of working life and labour market and process
               research in MWO

 The intellectual benefits and impact of researching across traditional management discipline
 boundaries to seek solutions to real world societal challenges is recognised and colleagues also
 work with researchers in other Faculties to provide a management perspective to research
 questions. For example, in the Faculty of Natural Science our environmental economists work with
 colleagues in areas of marine pollution; in Health Sciences & Sport our retail marketing and
 behavioural economists explore the impacts of interventions in health-related campaigns, and our
 operational management academics research staff optimisation and productivity issues in the
 health service, whilst in Social Science colleagues bring an economic and behaviour perspective
 to research on ageing. These linkages and contributions are further facilitated through the three
 University research themes and associated research programmes which support grant
 applications and intellectual debate.

 2.   Build on and develop our disciplinary based research strengths

 The School research themes draw from four discipline-based divisions exhibiting long standing
 and emerging areas of strength, evidenced by research activity and outputs, in which we will
 continue to invest.

 In Accounting & Finance (12.0 T&R FTE) our research pursues issues of public interest by
 exploring the interaction and discharge of accountability between organisations, individuals and
 society to improve individual financial well-being and market efficiency and to champion
 sustainable and responsible reporting and governance. We have developed strengths in two
 areas:

      •       Financial Economics research applies concepts from behavioural finance, psychology
              and economics to investor behaviour, incentives and risk perceptions and inter-firm
              relationships. This includes modelling and forecasting aspects of asset price behaviour
              and the relationship with both market risk and the wider macro-economy, and the
              implications for asset pricing and asset and R&D management. These relationships have
              implications for the stability of the financial system as well as acting as indicators for
                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


        economic wellbeing. (McMillan, Webb, Gavriilidis, Herbst, Campbell K, Dionysiou, Tabner,
        Kambouroudis, Changwony).
    •   Interdisciplinary Accounting research focuses on the communication of social and
        environmental impact, intercultural and interlingual accounting and the accounting
        profession. Our interests are connected through a commitment to critical investigations of
        power and ethics in accounting and accounting regulation, and to contributing to a more
        positive role of accounting in society. (Evans, Dey, Ou)

 Our Economics (13.0 T&R FTE) research has a strong focus on public policy outcomes. We draw
 on behavioural science approaches, choice modelling, causal inference design and applied theory
 to improve our understanding of how people and firms make decisions to inform how
 environmental, health, labour and constitutional policy can be made more effective:

    •   Environmental Economics research focuses on the economics of sustainability and
        ecosystem services, including plastic pollution control. This includes environmental
        valuation, led by our applied choice researchers, market design and policy evaluation (de
        Vries, Campbell D, Moro, Börger)
    •   Wellbeing and Health research explores the economics of happiness, health, unhealthy
        behaviours and their psychological aspects, including the broader analysis of how agents
        make rational or heuristic decisions that may impact their welfare. (Erdem, Campbell D,
        Comerford, Moro, Stowasser, Wollbrant, Diasakos, Bell, Blanchflower)
    •   Economic Policy and Politics research focuses on the study of labour and asset markets
        for macroeconomic stability, including measures of underemployment. This research links
        with how fiscal and constitutional changes shape, and are shaped by organisations, local
        and national governments (Bell, Blanchflower, Sas, Rufrancos, Stowasser, Comerford,
        Grydaki, Wollbrant)

 Management, Work and Organisation (17.65 T&R FTE) research draws on disciplinary and
 inter-disciplinary research in the sociology of work, organisational analysis, innovation\
 entrepreneurship and operations management. Areas of distinctive strength have developed
 around two core areas:

    •   Working Lives building on a long tradition of research on societal influences on the quality
        of working life and the consequences for employee experience and well-being. This
        includes research on:
            - the labour process examining changes in skill formation and organisational control
               systems, new technologies (including social media) and their influence on
               employment relations and worker voice (Thompson, Bolton, Marks, Laaser);
            - the labour market exploring access to work, skills and employability, and patterns
               of labour market exclusion with a policy-oriented focus on improving opportunities
               for disadvantaged groups (McQuaid, Marks, Baxter-Reid)
            - the impact of workplace and social change on professional, occupational and other
               social identities; and divisions of age, gender, socio-economic status and ethnicity
               in access to and experiences of work (Marks, Mallett, Perriton, Broadbridge,
               McCabe).
    •   Management and Organisation Studies research investigates the ongoing significance
        of management and organisation for present-day democratic societies through research
        on:
            - policy processes and governance (Webster, Docherty, McQuaid); healthcare
               management and operations (Bowers, Walsh) and the ethics of care with respect
               to commercialization and financialization in health and social care settings (Marks,
               Pierides).
            - scenario planning, top management teams and strategic learning and inter-
               organisational dynamics (Burnes, Burt G, Forbes), reappraisals of classic
               management texts and debates on ethics in management learning, education and
                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


                research (Burnes, Casler, Perriton, Pierides).
            -   innovation and management in SMEs, especially high growth firms, through policy-
                orientated research relating to government, university and industry interactions and
                to regulation, business support programmes and entrepreneurial finance (Grant,
                Mallett).

 Research in Marketing and Retailing (14.0 T&R FTE) explores consumption and consumer
 behaviour in a changing social landscape and specific contexts, with an emphasis on the inter-
 relationships between consumers and society reflected through changes in consumption and
 retailing:
     • Consumers Cultures and Societies research explores the ethical (or unethical) aspects
          of everyday consumer behaviour, consumer responses to corporate social responsibility
          and the formation of consumer communities, tribes and subcultures in specific
          consumption contexts. (Tinson, Black, Moufahim, Branco-Illodo, Rodner, Goode, Wilson-
          Nash)
     • Retailing research examines the impacts of structural and behavioural change on market
          structures and behaviours. This includes retail internationalisation; retail ‘spaces’, places
          and communities; and supply chain relationship power dynamics (Sparks, Burt S, Freathy,
          Davies, Siebers, Maglaras, Calderwood)

 We will further embed our School research themes and disciplinary strengths within our research
 activities over the next planning period and have sought to make appointments that contribute
 across both themes and disciplines.

 3. Embed the concepts of impact and public engagement throughout our research

 SMS has an established tradition of theoretically informed, applied research built on long-term
 collaborative relationships with a wide range of government, business and third sector
 stakeholders. We believe that research can, and should, make a difference across a range of
 organisational and societal contexts and we seek to make a difference through policy and
 behaviour change.

 Our impact and public engagement strategy create the conditions that enable our research to
 achieve the broadest impact, guided by our five School research themes. This approach is
 showcased through the impact cases selected for this submission, which reflect our commitment
 to policy and behaviour change to deliver both societal and economic objectives. We deliver multi-
 level policy impacts addressing major challenges in the areas captured in our School research
 themes:

    •   To understand sustainable communities we need to recognise that the places and
        spaces in which people live, work and socialise will be different in the future. Going beyond
        traditional views of ’high street’ redevelopment, our research has enabled a holistic
        approach to town centre regeneration that brings together researchers, public authorities,
        commercial organisations and consumers. This approach is having major impact across
        Scottish town centres and now forms a best practice model for regeneration across the UK
        and internationally (case study REF3.UoS.C17.4).
    •   A change in the way we allocate and manage resources within the heathcare system is
        needed to support healthy behaviours. With colleagues from the Faculty of Health
        Sciences and Sport, our research on improving NHS operational efficiency and patient
        experience through modelling has been instrumental in implementing management
        science modelling practices incorporating management behaviours in decision making
        across the UK, leading to greater efficiency through improved patient flows and resource
        allocation (case study REF3.UoS.C17.2).
    •   Changes in the world of work and the need to understand decent work in the future
        necessitate a rethinking of labour markets and employment support policies. Our
                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


        pioneering work developing understanding of underemployment and its incidence in
        economies has led to traditional measures of employment being rethought at the highest
        levels of economic policy across the globe. This has impacted on central bank decisions
        in, for example the UK and US, and benefitted millions globally (case study
        REF3.UoS.C17.1). Further reappraisal of perceptions of unemployment is evidenced
        through our research on changing policy approaches to employment support. A focus on
        long term sustainability and careers, to help certain disadvantaged groups, is now central
        to policy measures across Europe (case study REF3.UoS.C17.3).
    •   The spread of digital technologies and growth of digital data have raised questions about
        civil liberties and surveillance which are central to sustainable organisations. Our
        research collaboration with the Universities of St Andrews and Edinburgh in CRISP (Centre
        for Research into Information Surveillance and Privacy) is at the forefront of pioneering
        policy approaches that are ensuring responsible and accountable government and
        management of surveillance cameras in England and Wales and has directly led to the
        public being more informed and actively involved in this rapidly moving area. Our research
        has made sure that transparency and the public voice are embedded in government policy
        (case study REF3.UoS.C17.5).

 Further impactful research has contributed to the redesign of the Scottish Government’s consumer
 sentiment data collection instrument; the development of communication strategies encouraging
 healthier food consumption and the fiscal framework employed within the devolved nations. SMS
 research has been selected to be part of a joint CABS\BAM initiative (led by Cardiff) to promote
 the impact and public value and support for local regional economic development of business and
 management research, scheduled for release in 2021.

 Impactful practices are diverse. To facilitate awareness of impact and the value of impactful
 research within the School, SMS has an Impact Champion. A sub-group of cross-Faculty Impact
 Champions share good practice and promote inter-disciplinary impact across the University. At
 the institutional level, awareness is further supported through a Research Impact Officer and
 Public Affairs manager. To engage colleagues with a wider range of stakeholder engagement
 activity SMS has a designated Associate Dean (Business Engagement) is accredited by PRME
 (Principles of Responsible Management Education) and holds the Small Business Charter. The
 School’s International Business Advisory Board also provides colleagues with the opportunity to
 work together with local, national and international business leaders who guide, advise and
 engage in the activities of the School including research and knowledge exchange.

 We have explicitly integrated research impact practices and stakeholder engagement into the
 annual personal development process (Achieving Success) to identify impactful activities,
 stimulate communication and user engagement and identify training and support needs. This
 includes:

    •   impact toolkits for public and policy engagement to enable colleagues to recognise the
        range and variety of research impacts,
    •   stakeholder writing workshops and media training,
    •   modules on research impact within the institutional staff development programme

 Our ongoing commitment to enhancing the vitality and sustainability of the environment for impact
 within SMS is focused on:

    •   encouraging greater use of non-academic channels to communicate with user
        communities, building on existing press contributions, contributions to outlets such as The
        Conversation and blogs,
    •   strengthening funding, workload and other support mechanisms that can enable staff to
        embed impact more effectively in their portfolio of research activities,

                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    •   establishing a network of impact and business engagement coordinators at divisional and
        theme level to work with the Impact Champion and act as mentors to colleagues,
    •   integrating and promoting the developmental opportunities offered by the Institute of
        Advanced Studies at School level,
    •   integrating more clearly impact into the VITAE framework underpinning the development
        of our research staff and PGR students,
    •   refreshing our DBA programme and developing a DMan programme to ensure strong
        research skills can be applied to practice in a reflective way

 4. Provide an inclusive, transparent and supportive research culture

 A fundamental pillar of our research strategy is the continual enhancement of a supportive
 research culture and ethos for academic staff and research students. We engage colleagues in
 creating both our strategy and the ‘spaces’ in which they work. This entails opportunities to
 network and engage in intellectual discussion, and the creation of time and space within the
 Workload Allocation Model, and formal and informal mentoring schemes (both discussed in
 section 2).

 Intellectual discussion to encourage cross-disciplinary thinking is stimulated in a number of ways.
 Colleagues participate in discrete research ‘away-days’ to identify potential areas of interest,
 initiate project applications and discuss support for research.        An Annual SMS Research
 Conference allows new members of staff introduce themselves and their research, and all staff
 and PGR students participate in a poster session displaying their current research activities. This
 provides a forum for interaction amongst colleagues across management-discipline areas and is
 open to colleagues throughout the University to further encourage collaboration. With respect to
 institutional initiatives, colleagues from SMS are currently involved in the institutional research
 programmes on Health and Behaviour; Global Food Security; Extreme Events and Contextual
 Guidance in Humans and Machines, are active members of the University Research Environment
 Group and lead sessions in the annual University Festival of Research.

 SMS has disciplinary based research seminar series involving internal and external speakers
 from leading UK and international Universities. These are open to all staff and PGR students within
 the School and are promoted across the University. Annual symposia involving internal and
 external contributors have included the ESRC funded Behavioural Science Workshop Series
 (Economics); the Stirling Business History Annual Conference (Accounting & Finance and MWO);
 bespoke workshops and symposia linked to funded projects and centres (CRISP, HAGIS) and
 one off events such as the Academy of Marketing Political Marketing and the Arts & Non-Profit
 Marketing SIG workshops in 2019 and the SEPA funded International Workshop on Experiments
 for Environmental Policy Formation in 2016.

 In addition to the international networks of individual colleagues SMS regularly hosts visiting
 academics for periods of research leave and PhD students for shorter study visits. For example,
 during this REF period, SMS hosted academics seeking to interact with colleagues and use the
 Institute for Retail Studies information resources for extended research leave from Aarhus, Ariel,
 Kagawa, Lund and Nihon; for shorter study stays from the Universities of Zagreb, Lille, ESCP and
 Guelph, and PhD students from Parma, Zagreb, Lille and Cape Peninsula. These visitors
 contribute to the intellectual life of the School through debate with colleagues, participation in
 research projects and joint authorship.

 In terms of governance, transparency, integrity and best practice, research is overseen by the
 School Research Committee which meets four times a year and is tasked with shaping the School
 research strategy, policy and practice including ethics, and monitoring performance. Chaired by
 the Associate Dean (Research), the committee is comprised of four divisional research directors,
 the School Impact Champion, the Associate Dean (Business Engagement), the director of
 research postgraduates, the chair of the School ethics committee, the School Manager and the
                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 School Research Officer. We endeavour to ensure a gender balance when allocating these roles,
 so of the nine academic members of the committee, four are female. Colleagues from the
 University Research and Innovation Services are in attendance as is the School representative
 from the Communications Marketing & Recruitment Directorate. Committee minutes are available
 to colleagues and items and achievements are recorded in the monthly School newsletter. The
 committee reports to the School Executive and to the University Research Committee through the
 Associate Dean (Research) who is a member of both. Research is a standing item on the School
 Executive and Divisional Committee Agendas. Major strategy and policy issues, e.g. the revised
 research strategy and ethics processes, are fully and openly discussed and developed through
 these fora and the School Assembly to which all staff are invited.

 Research in business and management is conducted in accordance with the appropriate ethical,
 legal and professional frameworks, including health and safety. Ethical approval for research
 is granted primarily through the General University Ethics Panel which meets monthly and for
 which SMS provides three panel members. The ethics process includes considerations of due
 diligence of partner institutions and agencies; risk management for both researchers and
 participants; the recruitment of participants, participant consent procedures, data collection and
 data storage protocols and the use and reporting of data.

 With respect to open access SMS outputs including PhD theses are made publicly accessible via
 the green and the gold route in compliance with funder, publisher, ethical and legal requirements.
 Final drafts of outputs are deposited in the long-standing University open access repository
 (STORRE) and are visible via individual staff webpages.

 Section 2. People

 To deliver our research strategy we aim to attract and develop high quality colleagues who are
 aligned to our vision and committed to achieving our objectives. We aim to:

    •   build capacity in our key research areas, both disciplinary based and inter-disciplinary
        School themes;
    •   recruit to maintain a balanced staffing structure in terms of career stage to provide
        opportunities for advancement and succession;
    •   provide the environment and opportunity for colleagues to develop their research skills and
        reach their potential, and
    •   provide equal access and opportunity for all colleagues.

 Academic Staff

 SMS has a complement of 56.65 Teaching & Research (T&R) FTE, 7.10 Research Only (RO) FTE
 plus 15 Teaching & Scholarship (T&S) FTE. There is a balanced profile of T&R colleagues across
 grades with 34.3% professor, 35.3% senior lecturer\associate professor, and 30.4% lecturer\early
 career fellow. Since 2014 through our recruitment activities, we have increased the proportion of
 female T&R staff to 32% from 26%, and of the 24.4 T&R FTE appointments made since 2014
 included in this submission, 45% are female, and 5 of these 11 appointments are on associate or
 full professor grades. All T&R staff except one, who joined from industry, have a PhD.

 There have been significant staff changes within SMS since our 2014 REF submission.
 Retirements and departures of senior staff to external promotions particularly affected the
 Economics and Marketing & Retail Divisions, with two senior colleagues from the latter also
 serving terms as Deputy Principal of the University over the census period. Further, the Institute
 of Social Marketing (ISM) moved to the Faculty of Health Sciences and Sports to reposition the
 University’s contribution to the public health agenda. This has provided the opportunity to reshape
 our staff base to support and deliver our research strategy.

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Staff Investment

 Staff turnover has provided the opportunity to invest in those areas most relevant to our future
 strategy. Where possible appointments are made that contribute both to a specific disciplinary
 area and an inter-disciplinary School research theme.

    •   to further build the Understanding Decent Work theme, new senior posts have been
        taken up by prominent scholars in work and employment (Thompson, Marks, Mallett,
        Perriton) and early career staff (Baxter-Reid, Laaser), joining existing professors (Bolton,
        McQuaid).
    •   within the Informing Sustainable Communities theme the appointment of Docherty with
        his mobility infrastructure expertise enhances our research into sustainable and smart
        cities alongside existing research on urban surveillance (Webster and CRISP) and town
        centre regeneration (Sparks and IRS)
    •   in Economics, we have invested in established areas of strength such as environmental
        economics through the appointment of Börger, rebuilt capacity in behavioural science
        (Wollbrant, Erdem, Stowasser) and given the importance of policy-based research as a
        cross-cutting interest, invested in the area of political economy, combining young
        researchers (Stowasser, Rufrancos, Sas) with established leaders (Bell, Blanchflower).
    •   in Marketing & Retail investment in the consumers, cultures and societies area includes
        senior appointments (Black, Moufahim) matched by early career appointments (Branco-
        Illodo, Rodner, Wilson-Nash, and Goode)
    •   in Management Work & Organisation in addition to the posts in the working lives area
        noted above, strategic investment has strengthened expertise in organisational analysis
        (Pierides, Casler, adding to Burnes, Burt G) and in entrepreneurship, innovation and SME
        growth (Grant, Mallett).

 With future succession in mind, we have proactively recruited across all grades including at senior
 lecturer\associate professor level (eg Mallett, Moufahim, Siebers, Stowasser, Wollbrant) and at
 early career stage to create a balanced staffing profile providing mentoring and opportunities for
 career development and progression. We have seen successful transition from postgraduate
 researcher to early career fellow and then into permanent lectureships (e.g. Changwony, Laaser),
 from lectureship to senior lectureship (eg Comerford, Erdem, Maglaras) and then to Chair (e.g.
 Campbell, de Vries)

 Through our staff investments we have created a cohort of researchers with diverse disciplinary
 backgrounds and nationalities, representing a balanced demography.

 Creating Time & Space for Research

 Providing time and the intellectual ‘space’ for research is part of our strategy to build a supportive
 research culture. The workload allocation model is used to allocate responsibilities across
 research, teaching and citizenship duties. The model is transparent, changes to the principles
 and ‘tariffs’ of activities are discussed in the School Assembly (held every semester) and
 allocations are visible across the school. All T&R colleagues have a 40% allowance ring-fenced
 for research, increased to 60% for Early Career Fellows and probationary staff. Further ‘buy-out’
 of time may occur if large research projects provide recharges to direct staff costs. Additionally,
 the University research leave scheme allows colleagues to apply for six months research leave
 following six full semesters\three years of service. Applications are made annually (twice per year)
 and during the current REF period, 27 colleagues took research leave, with 6 periods exceeding
 six months. Additionally, 44% of those who have taken research leave over the period were
 female.



                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Individual research development needs, commensurate with career stage, are identified during
 the annual Achieving Success (AS) personal development meeting which entails a discussion
 with line managers of future plans for research outputs, stakeholder engagement and impact, and
 funding, alongside a review of progress against previous plans. This scheme is also used to
 explore career aspirations and advise on the promotion process. Following the AS round,
 adjustments may be made to workload allocations, and mentoring and staff development
 programmes put in place.

 A senior academic within the School acts as a research coach and career mentor for the junior
 staff cohort. Early career T&R staff – those on their first academic contract - are individually
 supported by the allocation of a “senior colleague” in a formal mentoring role during the
 probationary period (typically three years), and who may adopt a less formal “buddying” role
 thereafter. During the early career\probationary period, colleagues have a further reduction in
 teaching and citizenship duties (to 40%) allowing more time to establish their research careers
 and relevant researcher development programmes are identified.

 Depending on experience, colleagues at the start of their career may be appointed to a lecturing
 post (with a probationary period) or an Early Career Fellowship (ECF) a three-year fixed term
 contract which becomes permanent following successful completion of their Fellowship plan. The
 ECF role was initiated by the School in 2013 to support the transition to a full-time lecturing post
 for those having recently completed or submitted their PhD. Typically, circa 10-15% of the T&R
 staff base are on the ECF route - currently six colleagues spread across each of our four Divisions.
 Since the inception of the ECF programme several colleagues have successfully completed this
 pathway and have transitioned into permanent roles in SMS or moved to permanent lectureships
 externally.

 Support for Academic Researchers

 In terms of financial support 15% of any research overheads generated in year are made directly
 available to the PI to support research activity. If the PI is unable to use this funding or has other
 sources available, these funds are used to boost a generic seed fund within SMS. This fund
 supports pilot studies, workshop organisation and\or proof of concept exercises prior to grant
 application, and impact dissemination activities. Colleagues in SMS have also benefitted from
 one Connect (travel) and two Spark (pilot study) competitive awards from the internal University
 research investment fund.

 Colleagues are routinely encouraged to attend and present their research at academic
 conferences and in other suitable fora. Attendance is financially supported on the basis of paper
 acceptance. Following the hosting of the Academy of Marketing Conference at Stirling in July
 2018 a proportion of the financial surplus was retained, against an approved action plan, to boost
 the conference fund and other engagement activities which included the hosting of two Academy
 of Marketing SIG workshops in Stirling during 2019.

 Staff development for research is provided through the Researcher Development Programme
 offered by the University’s Institute of Advanced Studies. This programme is open to all colleagues
 and is based upon the Vitae Researcher Development Framework. Following the assessment of
 staff development needs through the Achieving Success personal development process
 colleagues may be supported to attend appropriate externally provided research training
 workshops. Within the School revise and resubmit groups and writing syndicate workshops further
 support early career researchers and PGR students but are also open to all colleagues.

 Supervisors of doctoral students must participate in supervisor training provided by the Institute
 for Advanced Studies. The Supervising Doctoral Studies programme comprises eight on-line
 training sessions and ten face to face workshops (two delivered by SMS staff) allowing colleagues


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 to mix with supervisors from other Faculties and disciplines to discuss common issues, observe
 best practice and encourage multi-disciplinary networking.

 Support for Research Students

 Our research student community benefits from an extensive support network and rigorous,
 constructive progress monitoring. The PGR cohort reflects the size of our School, typically
 comprising circa 35-40 FTEs and recruiting and graduating 8-10 students per year.
 Whilst many of our PGR students are self-funded, we regularly secure scholarships through the
 open competition for Accountancy, Finance, Business and Management and Economics pathways
 of the ESRC Scottish Graduate School for Social Science (SGSSS). Students are enrolled four
 times a year and allocated to a supervisory team comprising the principal supervisor and a
 secondary supervisor but may also call on other academic colleagues for specialist advice on
 research design, methodological approaches, and research ethics. New PGR students within
 SMS attend a programme of internal induction events to assist integration and facilitate cohort-
 building. All students are provided with a designated desk and office space, PC and access to
 library, database and printing facilities and other resources within SMS. Office space is allocated
 to encourage cross-disciplinary interaction.

 The School Director of Doctoral Studies and equivalents in each of the four divisions, provide the
 interface with the PGR community for academic and social integration – a monthly ‘coffee and
 cake’ event is organised - and oversee policy and practice. The School Director of Doctoral
 Studies is a member of the School Research Committee and the institutional sub-group of Doctoral
 Studies directors.

 Within three months of enrolment research students (with the support of their supervisory team)
 undertake a skills analysis, through Research Compass (a bespoke University of Stirling support
 system). This skills matrix, based on the Vitae Researcher Development Framework, provides
 the basis for identifying future development needs. The skills analysis is updated over the course
 of the students’ studies.

 To further develop skills, the School offers an MRes programme, which research students
 formally complete as part of a 1+3 programme or attend individual modules depending on their
 needs. Students have access to DataCamp online data science modules and further support and
 specialist skills training is available through the Institute for Advanced Studies and modules offered
 by other Faculties within the University (typically Social Sciences or Arts & Humanities).
 Additionally, we participate in the SGSSS Doctoral Training Programme and led the Scottish
 Graduate Programme in Economics from 2012 to 2018. Conference support and attendance at
 relevant training courses external to the University is provided on a case-by-case basis dependent
 on needs and stage of study. The portfolio of relevant modules\workshops is determined by the
 supervisory team and student during an annual review.

 Research students are encouraged to participate in all aspects of academic life within the School
 particularly the SMS Annual Research Conference - a best poster prize is awarded to the research
 student entrants – and a stand-alone annual PhD conference (organised by students) provides a
 focused event for the PGR community. Research students attend and present to the disciplinary
 research seminar series which are viewed as an integral part of their training, providing networking
 opportunities with external presenters, exposure to alternative research designs and
 methodologies and how these are applied across different fields, and guidance in presentation
 techniques.

 Research Compass is used to monitor progress. Supervisory meetings are recorded providing
 a repository of the agreed notes and future actions from these meetings. This provides a full and
 transparent record of student\supervisor engagement and flags any issues concerning progress
 that can then be addressed. Progress is formally reviewed after 9 months and 22 months. For

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 each checkpoint students submit a structured document, including a record of training needs
 completed. A panel of two colleagues, outside the supervisory team, assess the material, an oral
 review is held to discuss progress, and a report with feedback and recommendations is prepared.

 Equality and Diversity

 Treating everyone equally and with respect is central to the University and SMS ethos. From 2014
 to 2016, Bolton was the first University Dean for Equality & Diversity and the school held an annual
 SMS Women in Business panel where a group of successful businesswomen shared their career
 experiences (2015-2018). The University holds the Athena SWAN bronze award and this award
 is being pursued in SMS, although the submission has been delayed by Covid-19. We have a
 SMS Equality Champion and proactively engage with institutional processes and policies such as
 the Equality Action Forum which promotes activities and raises awareness of best practice and
 support.

 The School Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Team (EDIT) comprise staff at different career stages
 including research staff and doctoral researchers. The team reports to the Faculty Executive and
 the institutional Athena SWAN group. The EDIT benchmarks data, reviews the implementation of
 policy and procedures within the school and authored the Athena Swan submission. A biannual
 SMS staff survey exploring equality and diversity perceptions was instigated in 2019 to
 supplement the University Staff survey.       Colleagues involved in promotion panels and the
 Achieving Success procedures are trained in unconscious bias and colleagues from SMS are
 involved in Stepping Stones (a PPD programme for female staff), Stirling Women, the University’s
 gender equality forum, and the AURORA scheme.

 Staff and research students returning from periods of leave are fully supported. Over the REF
 period four colleagues took advantage of the University scheme providing up to 6 months research
 leave on return from maternity\paternity\adoption leave. We predominantly schedule meetings
 between 10.00 and 16.00 to support family\caring responsibilities and have a flexible approach to
 working, both for academic and professional support staff. Access to shared drives allows
 academic staff (subject to approval by line managers) the freedom to work at home, providing
 teaching, supervisory and administrative responsibilities are fulfilled, and the supportive
 atmosphere of a scholarly community is maintained on campus. Most flexible working is
 implemented informally, and staff adjust their working hours to accommodate family commitments,
 travel arrangements or personal circumstances. More formally, following periods of leave (e.g.
 for parental leave, illness, or carer responsibilities), staff can apply to work flexibly or part-time
 upon their return. If they wish, they can request a move to part-time work for a defined period and
 return to full-time. Some colleagues have adjusted working hours and patterns to reflect changing
 family circumstances. University and school staff surveys indicate that the informal and formal
 flexible working arrangements are well received.

 As part of the University’s Mental Wellbeing Campaign, a champion has been appointed in SMS
 to raise awareness of mental health issues and signpost available support, and a member of the
 Professional Services Staff acts as Bullying and Harassment Officer.

 To mitigate against unconscious bias and ensure equal consideration in constructing our REF
 submission we considered the composition of groups developing the documentation and selecting
 outputs. This included the gender balance of the SMS research committee which contributed to
 drafts of the REF submission. To ensure disciplinary expertise was taken into account,
 recommendations for output selection were made by the four Divisions via the Head of Division
 and Research Co-ordinator. In the two Divisions with a male research co-ordinator a senior female
 academic was co-opted to the group.




                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Funding

 The move of the Institute for Social Marketing (ISM) into the Faculty of Health Sciences and Sport
 has impacted on our overall research income compared to our REF 2014 submission, although
 colleagues remain actively involved with projects led by ISM. Additionally, the departure during
 the current REF period of several senior colleagues in behavioural science contributed to
 fluctuations in income and new awards. Following our investment in new staff and realignment of
 our research strategy around School research themes, we have reversed this trend. In 2018/19
 we received new research awards of over £1million and in 2019/20 new awards would have
 exceeded £600k had the start date of circa £325k of confirmed ‘awards’ not been delayed owing
 to Covid-19.

  £k                    2014/15     2015/16      2016/17     2017/18     2018/19       2019/20
  Research Income       707.1       731.7        608.8       300.5       305.9         627.2
  New Awards            693.3       192.2        402.9       249.9       1,146.4       286.8

 Research funding has followed a typical pattern for business & management research with a
 number of larger projects funded by the research councils or the European Commission
 complemented by smaller focused awards sponsored by a variety of public agencies and early
 career support from the British Academy and Carnegie. Our mix of funding over the current REF
 period since 2014 reflects a diverse range of funding sources with 49.7% from UK research
 councils, 16.2% from UK charities through competitive processes; 11.4% from UK government,
 local and health authorities and 8.7% from EU government sources.

 Since our REF 2014 submission funding has been obtained to support research in all five School
 research themes:

    •   Informing Sustainable Communities, has received the largest grants, typically funded
        by the UK research councils. Our successes include funding of over £1 million for
        environmental economics research into the economics of marine plastics from ESRC and
        the benefits of green infrastructure for flood resilience in Vietnam from NERC. Further
        funding for research on sustainable plastics has been obtained from NERC as part of a
        major £3.4million award led by the Faculty of Natural Science, due to commence in
        2020/21. In an urban context we were the recipients of an ESRC funded project on the
        smart governance of sustainable cities earlier in the review period. Alongside these grants,
        agencies such as SEPA (Scottish Environment Protection Agency) have provided smaller
        scale funding for the evaluation of sustainability projects.

    •   Transforming Consumption & Production, funding for this theme with the exception of
        an EU Marie Sklodowska-Curie fellowship award exploring the influence of information
        search on stated preference formation, learning and choice, is comprised of short term
        grants supporting research into the potential for behaviour change in specific contexts: for
        example, to examine the impact of retail store environments on healthy purchase
        behaviours for Food Standards Scotland; to examine the sustainability of community
        retailers in isolated communities for NHS Scotland; to develop a segmentation scheme of
        climate change behaviours for the Scottish Government; and to explore student behaviours
        towards recycling for Zero Waste Scotland. Early career funding has also been obtained
        from the British Academy into the consumption of music subscription streaming services
        and managing agency in the liminal self and from the Chartered Institute of Logistics and
        Transport for the effects of power dynamics on commercial practices within supply
        networks.



                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    •   Supporting Healthy Behaviours: during its pilot phase The Healthy Ageing in Scotland
        (HAGIS) initiative received significant funding from the US National Institute of Aging and
        the Nuffield Foundation, and ancillary funded projects have since been based on the data
        resource and panel, illustrated by a project using the HAGIS data to analyse the use of
        health service resources by smokers funded by the Health Foundation and an ESRC award
        led by the Faculty of Social Science to explore the impact of Covid-19 fear amongst older
        people on social, health and economic recovery. Other funding has been obtained to
        explore lifespan issues such as childhood self-control and adult health from ESRC and to
        examine specific policy interventions such as the impact of winter fuel payments on the
        health of UK households from NIHR. A series of small grants from the Health Foundation
        have supported research into other heath related behaviour change mechanisms and
        colleagues in retail and behavioural economics also continue to support various projects
        awarded to ISM in the Faculty of Health Sciences and Sport

    •   Understanding Decent Work research has benefited from several EU projects exploring
        disadvantaged groups in the labour market. The recent award of EU funding for improved
        social inclusion and female participation in mobility and an ESRC Covid-19 award on home
        working follows a series of funded projects exploring employment opportunities for
        excluded and disadvantaged young people and older people returning to work. Other
        funding relevant to this theme include grants from the Moffat Trust to examine young
        people, skills, and front-line service work in the Scottish hotel industry and early career
        grants from Carnegie to examine the organization of work and customer interaction in the
        online food retail sector and the mobility of employment in the UK horticulture and
        healthcare industry.

    •   Exploring Organisations funding includes grants to research work, community, and class
        in the British Coal Industry between 1947-1994 from AHRC; to explore expected stock
        returns and asset pricing from the Qatar National Research Fund; for research on patient
        flows in hospitals and smaller grants researching various aspects of employee-owned
        business and policy support for high growth firms from the Scottish Government. A KTP
        Innovate UK award made to two colleagues whilst at SMS with Clydesdale and Yorkshire
        Bank Group to develop an open innovation platform for SME support transferred to another
        University before the project could commence.

 The move towards inter-disciplinary research through the SMS research themes, alongside the
 University strategy of promoting and supporting cross cutting priority research themes and
 programmes has stimulated colleagues to seek funding through collaboration with other faculties.
 Policy expertise in ageing, social care and healthcare modelling has contributed to applications
 led by the Faculties of Health Sciences and Sport, and Social Sciences, environmental and
 behavioural economics expertise to Faculty of Natural Science led projects and expertise in
 marketing and retailing to ISM led research examining policy interventions within Scotland (the
 Healthcare Retail Standard for hospital shops, and the Minimum Unit Price of alcohol).

 Infrastructure and Facilities

 Access to publication databases and software packages for data analysis are provided at
 institutional level supplemented within SMS with Bloomberg and Stata. Cloud and campus based
 secure storage for research data is provided through Research Drive and can be shared with
 colleagues and external collaborators, and DMP Online provides a customised data management
 planning tool for researchers.

 Within SMS the role of our school-based centres has been reviewed since our 2014 REF
 submission and the emergence of the School research themes. Our approach to SMS based
 specialist centres is now two-fold. These named centres are based upon areas of long-
 established specialised expertise and are designated as such to increase the visibility and impact
                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 of our research with external stakeholders and to provide a vehicle for knowledge exchange
 activities. These centres are either project focused, based on a sustained series of funded
 research grants and collaborations, and\or have a research-based knowledge exchange focus,
 often involving management development and other engagement activities with user communities.

 The purpose of the centres is to provide a specialised infrastructure through data, materials, and
 networks and provide colleagues with access to stakeholder groups and methodologies to support
 our research themes. Additionally, these centres provide a ‘branded’ focus for social and
 traditional media activities to promote our research and impact and ensure a level of visibility with
 stakeholder groups. Currently the four SMS centres are:

    •   Healthy Ageing in Scotland (HAGIS). A major focus of research activity aimed at building
        research infrastructure within the School has been the Healthy Ageing in Scotland (HAGIS)
        project. The pilot project, co-funded by the National Institute of Aging and the Nuffield
        Foundation, collected data on the health, economic and social circumstances of adults
        aged 50+ in Scotland, and generated a dataset of over 1,000 respondents now deposited
        in the UK Data Archive and available through the Gateway to Global Aging portal. This
        dataset is a resource which colleagues across the institution can analyse for research
        outputs and as a base for other funding applications. HAGIS is part of the global Health &
        Retirement study family of longitudinal ageing studies, which together covers more than
        half of the world’s population aged 50+. Funding is being actively sought to scale up the
        data collection waves to make this dataset a national resource.

    •   Centre for Research into Information Surveillance and Privacy (CRISP). A long-
        standing collaboration between SMS, the University of St Andrews School of Management
        and University of Edinburgh’s School of Social and Political Sciences and School of Law.
        CRISP provides a platform for research and knowledge exchange with and between
        different stakeholders and user groups. CRISP at Stirling hosts the Scottish Privacy Forum
        a group of academics, policy makers and practitioners from central government, local
        authorities, the NHS and private practice who debate the impact of public policy and
        service delivery initiatives on privacy and organised the UK’s first national surveillance
        camera day in June 2019.

    •   Institute for Retail Studies (IRS). In addition to almost forty years of engagement with
        the retail and associated sectors, the IRS resource centre houses a collection of
        commercial material – annual reports, consultancy reports and trade press – covering
        retailing in various countries. A retail archive based on the academic collection of the
        founding Chair is currently under construction. This resource, plus the expertise of staff
        and our networks underpins our media work and regularly attracts visiting researchers and
        visiting PhD students to SMS.

    •   Behavioural Science Centre. A recurrent approach within our research is understanding
        the role and impact of the decision-making environment in improving outcomes through
        ‘nudging’ behaviour change. This centre provides the focus of our expertise in this area
        allowing researchers from different disciplines to explore these techniques and approaches
        in different contexts. The ESRC sponsored behavioural science workshops, focused on
        specific applications (e.g. healthcare, food consumption) bring together external
        contributors and colleagues from a range of disciplines to explore the role of behavioural
        economics in different contexts. A range of knowledge exchange activities and workshops
        are provided to stakeholder groups particularly in the public sector in Scotland.

 Internally, these entities support colleagues across our School research themes. The HAGIS
 dataset and the IRS resource centre provide resources relevant to all five themes, whilst
 behavioural science approaches to research design and data collection methodologies has
 particular application to research in themes 1-3 (informing sustainable communities; transforming
                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 consumption and production markets; and supporting healthy behaviours) and CRISP provides
 an important interface with stakeholders for research in themes 1 and 5 (informing sustainable
 communities and exploring organisations).        Our future intention is to continually review and
 reconsider the portfolio of specialist centres. We are currently considering creating new support
 centres in the areas of sustainable business and sustainable cities following recent appointments
 and successful grant capture.

 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Engagement with user communities and key stakeholder groups within society is central to our
 impact strategy and the wider dissemination of our research.

 Interaction & Engagement with Research Users and Wider Contributions to Economy and Society

 Given our focus on research impact through policy and behaviour change, colleagues have
 shaped policy debates with stakeholder groups through government or industry advisory roles.
 Whether as expert members of committees\agencies or through the provision of evidence to these
 bodies our research and expertise influences decision makers and we have made strong
 contributions to policy making in several areas within a devolved Scotland. For example, Bell’s
 government interactions include acting as specialist advisor to the House of Lords Economic
 Affairs Committee investigation into the financing of devolution (2015-16) and regular
 appearances before Scottish Parliament Committees as an expert witness to the Economy
 Committee, the Welfare Committee, the Health and Sports Committee, the Devolution Committee
 and the Finance Committee. His long-standing contribution to economics and public policy was
 rewarded with a CBE in 2018. Other colleagues with substantive Scottish government advisory
 roles include Docherty who is a Commissioner on the National Infrastructure Commission for
 Scotland (2018-20) and has been a member of the Scottish Government’s National Transport
 Strategy Delivery Board and Strategic Transport Projects Delivery Board since 2018, and Sparks
 who is a member of the Scottish Government’s Social Renewal Advisory Board and the only
 academic member of its Retail Strategy Steering Group and is involved in a number of government
 sponsored agencies focused on town centre sustainability including the Professional Research
 and Data Group of the UK High Street Task Force..

 Interactions and engagements with stakeholders responsible for shaping policy are evident in all
 of our School research themes

    •   In the Informing Sustainable Communities theme our research on town centre
        sustainability, smart cities and transport policy and surveillance society is reflected in
        strong and sustained interactions with and contributions to user groups. Colleagues have
        chaired several advisory groups\commissions for example, Scotland’s Towns Partnership,
        IDS Scotland - the company established by the Scottish Government to oversee Scottish
        Improvements Districts - and the Scottish Government’s Town Centre Action Plan Review
        (Sparks), the Strategic Advisory Group for Strathclyde Partnership for Transport and the
        Glasgow Connectivity Commission (Docherty, Deputy Chair 2018-19), and advise the
        Office of the (UK) Surveillance Camera Commissioner (Webster)

    •   Within the Transforming Consumption and Production Markets and Supporting Health
        Behaviours themes, our research in retail and distribution channels and food consumption
        behaviours involves a track record of stakeholder engagement. We have advisory roles
        with the European Technology Platform: Food for Life Consumer Working Group, which
        brings together food industry, academic partners and policy makers to contribute to the
        future of food agenda within Europe (Burt, academic retail advisor) and the Food Standard
        Agency and Food Standards Scotland through the FSA Social Science Research
        Committee and provide the chair of the horizon scanning group (Erdem). Our expertise in
        a behaviour change has seen colleagues play a key role in developing the Scottish
                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


        Government’s consumer sentiment index, and act as expert advisor to the Office of the
        Chief Economic Advisor to the Scottish Government on collecting consumer sentiment
        data (Comerford, 2013-16). The revised instrument is now used to collect sentiment data
        feeding into a number of Scottish Government publications and policy assessments. Other
        policy assessment contributions include membership of review groups for example the
        Scottish NHS Minimum Unit Pricing of Alcohol Economic Impact and Related Studies
        Evaluation Advisory Group which assessed government interventions to instigate
        behaviour change impact (Sparks)

    •   In the Understanding Decent Work and Exploring Sustainable Organisations themes, our
        expertise in labour markets and the evolving workplace is evidenced by several
        contributions to the policy debate. This includes membership of the Scottish Government
        Expert Advisory Groups on New Social Security Powers (Marks since 2016) and Migration
        (Bell, Deputy Chair 2018-2020); the UK Governments ‘Better Regulation Executive
        Network of Experts’ (Mallett since 2018) and the Scientific Committee of the European
        Regional Labour Market Monitoring Network (McQuaid). Evidence and presentations have
        been given to BEIS on better regulation for SMEs (Mallett, 2018), to the Scottish
        Parliamentary Working Group on tenement maintenance (Wollbrant, 2019) and to the
        House of Lords Covid-19 committee inquiry on home working (Marks & Mallett (2020).

 Colleagues also hold governance roles in a number of organisations including the governance
 board of Scale Up Scotland, Entrepreneurial Scotland and Scotland CAN DO, which seeks to
 develop the capabilities amongst entrepreneurs required for scale (Grant), and non-executive
 directorships with the UK Cooperative Group (Calderwood 2006-2015, including chair of the
 Remuneration Committee 2008-2015); Scotrail (Docherty 2014-19) and Platinum Informatics a
 Dundee University Spin-Out data analytics company partnered with the Welcome Trust (Grant).

 Other routes to engagement with and contributions to user communities and society are through
 roles within industry associations and learned societies: Bell is VP for Arts Humanities and
 Social Science, Royal Society of Edinburgh and an Honorary Fellow of the Institute and Faculty
 of Actuaries; Doherty was elected as Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences (2020), Royal
 Society of Edinburgh (2019) and Institution of Civil Engineers (2018); and Bolton became a
 Chartered Director and Fellow of the Institute of Directors in 2018. In 2015 Docherty was also
 appointed as one of the five ‘thought leaders’ in the Innovation Caucus funded by ESRC and
 Innovate UK to foster business innovation through integration with social science research.
 Involvement in organisations linking user communities with the academic community provide the
 opportunity for colleagues to contribute to real world economic and societal issues. This type of
 engagement takes a number of forms from chairing these associations: Friends of the Earth
 Scotland and Sustainable Lifestyles and Behaviour theme chair for the International Sustainable
 Development Research Society (ISDRS) from 2013-2017 (Black); vice chair of the Scottish Deans
 Group of CABS (Grant) and co-chair of the eGovernment Study Group of the European Group of
 Public Administration (Webster); to academic representative roles on associations: academic
 director of the Behavioural Insights Community Scotland (Comerford); management committee of
 the European Accounting Association and deputy convenor Research Committee of the Institute
 of Chartered Accountants of Scotland from 2017-19 (Evans); Council member of the Marketing
 Society Scotland (Tinson 2016-19) and member of the Research Ethics Review Panel of the
 Financial Conduct Authority (Wollbrant).

 Another mechanism for knowledge transfer and engagement with industry and public agencies is
 through invitations to be a keynote\invited speaker. Examples include contributions to events
 organised by national and international agencies such as the Institute of Directors, the Chartered
 Institute of Taxation, the Faculty of Actuaries, the European Central Bank Frankfurt, the Scottish
 Chambers of Commerce, Scottish Council Development & Industry, and Scottish Government
 Fiscal Commission and more specific sector based events within accountancy and finance (the
 Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya and the Qatari Stock Exchange); environmental

                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 economics (the East Asian Seas Congress and Korean Maritime Institute), and retailing (Scottish
 Grocers Association, the Booksellers Association and Charity Retail Scotland annual conferences,
 regional Town Planning Institute events, and the Architectural Heritage Society of Scotland and
 the Scottish Civic Trust)

 Other activities demonstrating the impact of our research include a variety of interactions with
 opinion formers through regular contributors to the media via TV, radio and print and through social
 media. The University is a founding partner of the Conversation and SMS colleagues are regular
 contributors providing over 50 articles in the period including a dozen contributions on Covid-19
 and behaviour change in the past few months.

 Contributions to Sustainability of the Discipline/Academic Community

 Within the broader academic community, colleagues have contributed in each of our four
 disciplinary areas through active involvement with major conference organisation; academic
 journals (as editors, associate editors, guest editors and editorial board members); academic
 organisations (as post holders), funding bodies (as grant reviewers) and institutions (as PhD
 examiners).

 Individual recognition from the academic community over the review period includes Broadbridge,
 who was awarded the Medal for Leadership for ‘sustained and outstanding leadership of, and
 contribution to, the academic community by a BAM member’ at the BAM 2019 conference for her
 role in founding the BAM Gender in Management SIG in 2003 and acting as its chair for twelve
 years, and Campbell K who was awarded the Gold Medal of the University of Gdansk in 2018 in
 recognition of his research cooperation with the University of Gdansk over a 25 year period. Bell
 is a recipient of the Adam Smith Medal from the Scottish Economics Society, and before her
 departure, whilst an Early Career Fellow, Wilson was awarded the Sir Alec Cairncross Prize by
 the Scottish Economics Society in 2017

 In addition to the symposia noted in section 2, periodically the School hosts major academic
 conferences such as the 51st Academy of Marketing Annual Conference in July 2018 - circa 320
 domestic and international delegates - and the International Co-operative Alliance Annual
 Research Conference - jointly organised with colleagues in the Faculty of Social Sciences - in
 June 2017.

 Colleagues hold editorship, associate or senior editor roles for academic journals in each of our
 four disciplinary areas. In Accounting & Finance these include Accounting History; Cogent
 Economics and Finance and Cogent Business and Management; in Economics, The American
 Journal of Agricultural Economics; The BE Journal of Economic Analysis & Policy; the Journal of
 Environmental Economics and Policy and the Journal of Economic Surveys (2014-17); in
 Management Work and Organization, Gender in Management; Information Polity; Journal of
 Change Management; and Journal of Small Business & Entrepreneurship, and in Marketing &
 Retailing, the International Review of Retail Distribution & Consumer Research. Colleagues also
 act as book series editors for the Palgrave Management, Work and Organisation series, the
 Routledge Studies in Organizational Change and Development and Routledge Studies in
 Surveillance series

 Additionally colleagues have guest edited or co-edited special issues on a range of contemporary
 topics such as sustainability - scaling sustainability (British Journal of Management 29(2) 2018),
 ecological accounting (Accounting Auditing and Accountability Journal, 30(7) 2017) and
 mechanism design for environmental policy (Environmental & Resource Economics, 63(4) 2016);
 on governance challenges - big data and surveillance: hype commercial logics and new intimate
 spheres (Big Data & Society, 7(1) 2020) and accounting control governance and anti-corruption
 (British Accounting Review 51(5) 2019), as well as specific disciplinary topics - language and
 translation in accounting (Accounting Auditing and Accountability Journal, 31(7) 2017 2018),

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Marketing the Brave (Journal of Marketing Management 35(9-10), 2019) technology in retailing
 (Baltic Journal of Management, 13(2), 2018) and critical inquiry and practical applications (Journal
 of Business Ethics (forthcoming).

 Involvement with the academic discipline through editorial board memberships are extensive
 (over 50 journals) and range from involvement with established journals to journals in emerging
 specialist sub-areas of the disciplines and emerging regional markets. Editorial board
 membership includes: in Accountancy & Finance - Accounting and Business Research;
 Accounting History; Journal of Applied Accounting Research; Journal of Asset Management;
 European Journal of Finance; and Sustainability Accounting Management & Policy Journal; in
 Economics – National Institute Economic Review; Journal of Agriculture and Applied Economics
 in Management Work and Organisation - International Small Business Journal; Journal of
 Management; Management Learning; New Technology, Work and Employment; Organization
 Studies; Public Money and Management; Work Employment & Society; and in Marketing &
 Retailing Arts & the Market; European Journal of Marketing; Journal of Marketing Management;
 International Marketing Review; Journal of Consumer Behaviour; Journal of Co-operative
 Organization & Management; and Service Industries Journal.

 Several colleagues are post holders or have advisory group roles for academic organisations.
 Colleagues act as advisory group or executive council members for research centres at other UK
 Universities for example the Economics of Health and Social Care Research Unit (LSE\York), the
 ESRC Business and Local Government Data Research Centre (Essex) and the Centre for Social
 & Environmental Accounting Research (St Andrews); Within academic societies, internationally
 colleagues chair the European Association for Retail Distribution and Consumer Research and
 hold scientific committee membership of the European Association of Environment & Resource
 Economists, the International Association for Research in Economic Psychology and act as
 Steering Group Convenor for the annual International Labour Process Conference, and nationally
 are or have been chairs of special interest groups in academic associations for example BAM,
 Academy of Marketing, International Sociological Association

 Colleagues are regularly called upon to act as reviewers for grant applications. Colleagues act
 as reviewers for UKRI Innovate UK and the multi-agency UK Prevention Research Partnership
 and have been members of the Peer Review Colleges for ESRC and NERC and ESRC. Several
 colleagues review grant applications for ESRC, EPSRC and the European Commission (Marie
 Curie, H2020, NORFACe), and have performed similar reviewing roles for national research
 councils in other countries during the period: For example the Foundation for Scientific Research
 Belgium; Cyprus Research Promotion Foundation; Hungarian National Research Development &
 Innovation Office; Greek National Science Association; Irish Research Council Laureate awards;
 Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research; Norwegian Research Council; the National
 Science Centre Poland and Polish Research Council, and FOTRE (the Swedish Research
 Council for Health Working Life and Welfare)

 Colleagues have routinely acted as external examiners for PhDs in other academic institutions.
 Domestically over the review period at least 20 colleagues have externally examined over 60 PhD
 candidates at UK institutions and performed a similar role at international institutions in Australia,
 Denmark, France, India, Malaysia, the Netherlands, Norway, South Africa and Sweden.




                                                                                               Page 19
