Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Birkbeck, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 27 (English Language and Literature)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 UoA27 represents the department of English, Theatre and Creative Writing (ETCW), which has
 a global reputation for extending disciplinary boundaries and combining practice-led, historical,
 and theoretical research. The department is the largest of four in the School of Arts, adjacent to
 some of the finest libraries, galleries and museums in the world. Offices and teaching rooms
 share premises with an award-winning cinema, a conference/social space (Keynes Library), the
 Peltz Gallery, and a theatre performance space designed to foster academic creativity.
 The department’s name change to ETCW in 2019 captures our profile as a community of literary
 critics, cultural theorists, directors, novelists, playwrights, poets, public intellectuals, screen
 writers, textual editors, and translators. Our work investigates foundational texts as well as new
 and emerging cultural forms, taking historically informed and pioneering approaches to global
 literature and culture, from the Middle Ages to today, from image, book and text, to screen, stage
 and performance. Rather than being solely focussed on Anglophone written culture, we see
 aesthetic forms in wider multilingual, geopolitical and transnational contexts: colleagues work on
 the Middle East (Bale, Rose, Willey); Germany (Bauer, Leslie); Ireland (Brooker, Walsh); Italy
 (Calè, Clucas), Iceland (Finlay); Russia and Ukraine (Flynn); Turkey (Ilter); Nigeria, Malawi, and
 South Africa (Msiska, Rose); the Caribbean (Senior); Australia (Rose); the US (Eve, Halden,
 Hartnell); and movement across national boundaries (Bale, Warner, Woolley).
 Our research engages with some of the world’s most urgent questions: environment, migration,
 race, gender and sexuality, medicine, and new digital worlds. We pursue research of the highest
 standard, an endeavour thoroughly integrated with Birkbeck’s mission to provide a wide
 constituency from across and beyond London with the best access to knowledge.
 1.1 Structure
 Our unit consists of 46 Category A staff (40.3 FTE) and a thriving postgraduate community
 across fourteen specialist Masters programmes, and one of the UK’s largest MPhil/PhD
 research programmes in English studies, with more than 100 current students. Emeritus
 colleagues and honorary/visiting fellows are valued and integrated community members.
 Clusters work around research-led teaching in four blocks: creative writing; humanities; period-
 based literary studies; and theatre studies. The research environment is overseen by the
 department’s Research Director (RD), who reports to Assistant Dean (AD) for Research. Since
 REF2014, the School has appointed a Research Manager (SRM) and a dedicated Impact
 Officer. Student research is led by Departmental PGR director, reporting to AD for PGR.
 Colleagues’ research is fostered by research centres and institutes (see 3.2). ETCW is home to
 several publishing initiatives (1.7) and leads Birkbeck Arts Week annually, engaging public
 audiences with creative research. We are integral to the University of London and Consortium of
 the Humanities and Arts South-East England (CHASE). We have partnerships with HEIs and
 cultural institutions across the world.
 Highlights
 Since 2014 our unit has:
    •   Expanded networks and partnerships (including 20 research partnerships funded by
        ACE, AHRC, Leverhulme, A. W. Mellon, ESRC, MHRA, 18 funded collaborative
        postgraduate training initiatives).
    •   Extended and diversified sources of grant income (more than £2.2M, average in excess
        of £309,000 p.a., outperforming REF2014).

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Realized over £21M commercial investment in prime-time television drama.
    •   Increased the proportion of monographs in our submission (36 compared to 22 in
        REF2014).
    •   Maintained one of the largest postgraduate student bodies nationally in our discipline
        (awarding 129 PhDs, and home to over 100 PhD and 290 MA students at census date).
    •   Become full member of CHASE AHRC Doctoral Training Partnership (2018-; associate
        member, 2015-18).
    •   Expanded our leadership of the Open Access (OA) movement, begun with launch of 19:
        Interdisciplinary Studies in the Long Nineteenth Century (19) in 2005, and continued with
        Open Library of Humanities (OLH) in 2015.
    •   Led nine Birkbeck research institutes and centres, including Birkbeck Institute for the
        Humanities (BIH; Rose, Leslie), a high-profile forum for contemporary cultural theory and
        ethics, with a thriving Critical Theory Summer School.

 1.2 Research Objectives 2014-20
 In REF2014 we identified four priority areas for development and innovation (a-d), which have
 been successfully furthered through appointments, the creation and consolidation of centres and
 clusters, and a diverse portfolio of partnerships and grant-funding.
 a) Contemporary Studies
 Birkbeck’s excellence in contemporary studies is noted for disciplinary diversity and dialogues
 across creative writing, humanities, theatre, screen media, and digital culture, underpinned by a
 concentration of research centres for Contemporary Literature (CConLit), Contemporary Theatre
 (CCTheatre) and the Contemporary Poetics (CPoeticsR), as well as BIH and Birkbeck Gender
 and Sexuality (BiGS) across Schools. Our cultural programming includes the annual Booker
 Prize Foundation lectures (since 2014: Hilary Mantel, Ali Smith, Colm Tóibín, Julian Barnes,
 Mohsin Hamid, Ian McEwan). We built capacity through twelve new appointments (Angel,
 Blacklock, Carville, Eve, Flynn, Halden, Ilter, Kim, Rose, Warner, Willey, Woolley), exceptional
 ECR fellows funded by Wellcome ISSF, BIH and School fellowship schemes, in addition to
 external grants. AHRC funded Hartnell’s After Katrina: Race, Neoliberalism, and the End of the
 American Century (2017). Leslie’s international cross-disciplinary AHRC Network ‘Animate
 Assembly’ develops critical thinking about digital animation as a modelling, simulation,
 visualisation tool for artists, cellular biologists, financial analysts, social planners, human rights
 and global activists, neuroscientists, and surgeons.
 b) Building Digital Communities
 ETCW leads innovation in open access publishing and digital infrastructure, building on our
 pioneering role in shaping digital communities through the open-access journal 19 (2005-), with
 the appointment of Edwards and Eve, grant income, the launch and growth of OLH (see 1.5, 1.7)
 and MIROnline (see 3.2).
 c) Medical Humanities
 The Centre for Medical Humanities (CMedHums) brings together colleagues across college and
 periods, working with other research groupings and external partners: e.g. the Association of
 Medical Humanities; the Kent and Sussex Deanery; the Royal College of General Practitioners;
 Wellcome Collection and the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. The
 appointment of Fifield consolidates strength in Medical Humanities. A new Medical Humanities
 MA, focused on cultural history, joins an existing Applied MA (for clinicians), builds progression
 routes to MPhil and offers new collaborative opportunities with History, Classics and
 Archaeology (HCA). Wellcome ISSF awards have funded events, seeded new research



                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (£143,567), and provided 3-6 month PGR awards to 16 recent PhDs (£299,532) and two three-
 year ECR fellowships (£243,638).
 d) External Collaborations
 We have myriad partners from individuals to large national arts institutions, from formal
 exchange agreements (e.g. Institute of Contemporary Arts — ICA, New York University and
 Open Society University Network — OSUN) to partnerships around defined projects. We
 specialise in links with creative practitioners and institutions (e.g. two funded artist-in-residence
 schemes); we build from informal associations (e.g. invitations to Arts Week events) to initiate
 collaborations on doctoral training and funding bids (See 4-4.1).
 1.3 Research Objectives 2021-26
 We will build on our strengths across the whole historical range of the discipline from the early
 middle ages to the contemporary. Recent grant success in book history (Calè), non-elite writing
 (Wiseman) and early modern theatre (Woods) will produce monographs, public engagement,
 and impact in the next REF period (e.g. Pedagogies, 4.2). Through network grants and
 international collaborations (Bale, Vadillo) we will shape historical understanding and strategic
 engagement with cultures of reading and viewing, fostering cross-period debate and driving
 change by bringing archivally and theoretically informed work into dialogue with the present, e.g.
 reconstructing colonial and environmental legacies, histories of gender and sexuality, and
 historical aesthetics.
 We will consolidate, expand, and diversify our portfolio of grant-funding and partnerships to
 develop individual research projects, local and international networks, and creative public
 engagement through strategic knowledge exchange links with archives, museums, galleries, and
 other cultural partners (1.4, 4.2.2). We will use research centres to support progression,
 nurturing disciplinary expertise and experimental approaches that will shape the future of our
 discipline.
 We will enhance our lead in the following research clusters:
 a) Creative and Critical Practice
 We will bridge creative and critical practice-led research by sharing best practice through our
 research centres (CPoeticsR; CConLit; CCTheatre, CMedHums), building innovative
 partnerships (see 1.5), consolidating and expanding our research environment at all levels. Our
 decision to continue to include performing arts and screenwriting in our submission captures the
 energizing dialogue between disciplinary approaches, perspectives, and collaborations within
 the unit. Thirteen colleagues work across creative and critical writing, performance, or in
 practice-centred pedagogical research. For example, Blacklock’s monograph The Emergence of
 the Fourth Dimension (OUP, 2018) laid the research ground for his novel Hinton (Granta, 2020).
 Our plan to bridge practice-led research and research-led practice capitalises on progression
 routes through an extensive postgraduate portfolio: MAs Applied Medical Humanities;
 Dramaturgy; Text and Performance with the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art; and the MFA
 Theatre Directing. The MA Creative Writing is now supplemented by the new MA Creative and
 Critical Writing and MFA Creative Writing. Practice-led MPhil/PhD research is enhanced by
 cross-disciplinary co-supervision arrangements (e.g. CDA and CDP, see 4.7). Over the coming
 years, we expect bridging work to emerge particularly in life-writing in dialogue with critical
 theory, cultural history and politics; contemporary theatre and performance studies; experimental
 art writing; and medical humanities.
 b) Cultures of Science, Medicine, and Technology
 Our strength in the history of science ranges from Medieval reproductive medicine via Early
 Modern magic to Enlightenment ‘Colonial Modernity and the Empire of Experiment' (Senior,

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Wellcome ISSF funded), Conan Doyle’s medical career, modernist sickness, and contemporary
 medical humanities, but also histories of meteorology, geology, oceanography and science
 fiction. We plan to turn Wellcome-ISSF seed funding (Davis, Halden, Senior) into larger grant
 applications. We will also use funding applications to grow capacity in environmental humanities
 (Bintley, Edwards, Hamblyn, Hartnell) and animal studies (Bauer).
 Our interventions in digital humanities span from critical analysis of the technological interfaces
 of literature, aesthetics, and new cultures of reading, writing, and viewing to OA restructuring of
 academic publishing through engagement with stakeholders (see 1.5, 4.7).
 c) Migration and Critical Race Studies
 Our plan to expand our creative and critical practice in migration and race studies is underpinned
 by recent appointments (Flynn, Kim, Warner, Woolley), which consolidate an existing cluster in
 colonial and post-colonial history, translation and transnational literature. Colleagues working on
 global migrant crises (see 1.5, 4.6) use research centres and institutes to develop cross-
 disciplinary collaborations, build progression routes through the new MA Migration Literatures
 and Cultures (2021-), design new doctoral training, and international networks. Their work puts
 diversity at the centre of our research environment.
 d) Gender and Sexuality
 Our work shapes public debate in the field of gender, sexuality, feminism, queer history and
 culture, using BiGS as a platform for cross-disciplinary collaborations. The appointment of
 leading and emerging figures in the field (Angel, Halden, Mills, Rose, and Warner) adds
 dimensions to world-lead work that transforms understanding of seventeenth-century women’s
 writing (Wiseman); queer performance (Walsh); histories of queer culture and sexology (Bauer,
 Winning); the dynamics of gender and sexuality in nineteenth-century art criticism (Burdett,
 Fraser, Mills, Vadillo); fertility history and health (Davis, Halden); and sexual consent in the
 context of #MeToo (Angel, Rose). Early data on new publications and grant applications indicate
 that these strands will produce strong outcomes for the next cycle.
 1.4 Impact Objectives 2014-2020
 ETCW is committed to shaping academic and public agendas and realising ambitions for change
 through public engagement and knowledge exchange with diverse audiences and partnerships.
 Our research culture is transforming exhibition spaces (see 4.2.2), digital publishing (see 1.7),
 cultures of performance, and television schedules, democratizing knowledge, communicating
 politically charged histories, and influencing creative practice. Our impact is evidenced through
 the following case studies:
 Blood and Money: Contested Cultural Histories (Bale): these two exhibitions curated with the
 Jewish Museum London (touring to Krakow, Warsaw) historicize and transform public debate,
 curatorial culture, strategies of display, and loan practices;
 Open Access and the Open Library of Humanities (Edwards and Eve, see 1.5, 1.7);
 Rebellion: Understanding Ireland’s Road to Independence (Teevan) defined RTE’s
 centenary commemoration programming and brought a historicized and nuanced focus on
 diversity and history from below to local and global public debate.
 To meet our objectives, our strategy is to build on best practice from established networks;
 discuss public engagement, knowledge exchange, and impact in ETCW’s Research away-days;
 train colleagues to identify potential stakeholders through masterclasses, workshops, one-to-one
 coaching, and develop pathways to impact in grant applications with the institutional support of
 the Impact Officer and Public Engagement team. They also advise on proposals for festivals
 (e.g. Being Human) and public engagement awards. Wellcome seed funding fosters emerging


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 knowledge exchange, public engagement, and impact (e.g. Wellcome ISSF-funded Blood
 exhibition catalogue). We use our research centres, Birkbeck Arts Week, the Peltz Gallery, our
 performance space, and cinema to train staff and PGRs in experimental engagement activities.
 1.5 Impact Objectives 2021-26
 In line with the School Impact Strategy, we will identify projects with imminent, longer-term, and
 emerging potential, and tailor support for collaborations with knowledge exchange partners and
 practitioners:

 Digital partnerships, infrastructure, and open access (see also 1.7): Eve's publishing model
 is driving global change in OA, starting with journals in OLH and now moving to monographs
 through the Community-led Open Publication Infrastructures for Monographs project (COPIM),
 with £3M of knowledge exchange funding (Research England Development Fund; Arcadia
 Foundation), working with multiple stakeholders and partners (e.g. Liverpool University Press
 and Central European University Press). Digital infrastructure transformation in response to
 COVID-19 includes: Vadillo’s work with an expanding international university partnership through
 the online publishing and editing platform COVE (originally, Central Online Victorian Educator;
 reinvented as Collaborative Organization for Virtual Education); and Ilter’s work on mediatized
 dramaturgy and digital theatre.
 Media networks, production companies, creative agencies: We are still measuring the
 impact of Carville’s crime drama series The Bay (ITV) on creative industries, particularly in the
 Morecambe area. Series 1 gathered an audience of 8M, received Best New Drama TV Choice
 Award 2019, was bought in 95 countries (further deals pending); Series 2 aired in January-
 February 2021, with Carville as executive producer as well as scriptwriter; Series 3, in
 production in 2021, provides on-going economic and cultural stimulus in a deprived area of the
 North West.
 Medical training institutions: Our medical humanities work impacts medical and
 psychoanalytical practice. For instance, Winning co-teaches an undergraduate module co-
 hosted by Birkbeck and St George's Medical School.
 Museums and galleries, building on our reputation for translating long histories into impactful
 exhibitions and cultural programming, e.g. Bale’s impact case study (see 1.4), Leslie works with
 Middlesbrough Museum of Modern Art on Chemical City, an exhibition drawing on her
 monograph Synthetic Worlds, in new contexts of local industrial history, communities and
 businesses; Luckhurst serves on the Science Museum’s Science Fiction exhibition’s advisory
 board (2022; world tour 2022-7); continuing collaboration with the National Gallery through
 Burdett, Swain and Matthew Longo’s ‘Experimenting in the Galleries’ reframes visitor experience
 (see 4.5).
 Non-Governmental Organizations, Refugee Community Organizations, Think Tanks, and
 Charities inform ETCW’s humanities interventions on migrant and displaced people (Warner,
 Willey and Williams’s creative practice, see 4.2a, 4.4, 4.6); Willey’s work with the Palestine
 Writing Workshop, Palestinian-led Lajee Centre, and The Prisoners’ Archive (Abu Jihad Museum
 for Prisoner Movement Affairs, AI Quds University, Jerusalem) is funded by a Council for British
 Research in the Levant Team-Based Fieldwork Award (see 3.1); Woolley’s work with the Council
 for At-Risk Academics (CARA), Counterpoint Arts, and the Jordanian Think-Tank Q-
 Perspectives is underpinned by an AHRC Network Plus: Global Partnership Development
 Award.
 Theatres: Our established lead in theatre studies, evidenced in Swain’s work in professional
 development and recognised in London Higher’s 2019 London Impact initiative, will resume

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 when COVID-19 restrictions lift. Indications include Eldridge’s plays Middle (2022) and End, for
 the National Theatre; Owen’s collaboration with Camden People’s Theatre; Ilter’s with theatre
 practitioners in Istanbul, and Flynn’s in the Ukraine and Ukrainian expatriate communities in
 London, building on the Depicting Donbas conference (2019) and Leverhulme fellowship (2020).
 1.6 Interdisciplinary Research Strategy
 Our distinctive interdisciplinary research culture is evidenced by the clusters prioritized in our
 research strategy (see 1.2, 1.3). We nurture recognised disciplines and develop work from the
 rigor of established research methods (e.g. archival research, close reading, language skills,
 storytelling, analysis of stage craft). At the same time, we put disciplinary perspectives into
 dialogue, fostering interdisciplinarity, cross-disciplinarity and multi-disciplinarity through PGR
 programmes, research centres and institutes (see 3.2), and inventive knowledge exchange
 collaborations (1.5, 4.2). Our examples are at 4.5.
 1.7 Open Research Environment
 We are pioneers in digital publishing. The peer-reviewed journal 19 marked an early intervention
 in OA humanities scholarship (edited Fraser 2005-9; Burdett 2010-20, now Mills), using the full
 multimedia potential of online publishing, as demonstrated in The Nineteenth-Century Digital
 Archive (edited Calè, Vadillo).
 Our lead is enhanced with the launch of CTPublishing (2015) and OLH (Edwards, Eve; see
 impact case study), whose innovative business model (based on the Library Partnership
 Subsidy) is supported by ~300 libraries worldwide. OLH employs four full-time staff (two
 programmers, an editorial manager, a marketing officer). It publishes twenty-eight journals,
 currently migrating to Janeway, a purpose-built publishing platform now adopted by seven other
 presses and institutions. Eve’s innovation in OA journal and monograph publishing business
 models (see 1.5) is reflected in ten roles on steering committees and advisory panels (e.g. JISC
 National Monograph Strategy Group, UniversitiesUK OA Monographs Working Group, and as
 Plan S Ambassador).

 Edwards and Eve have undertaken advocacy work at OA policy events, e.g. at the European
 Council, the National Library of Sweden (Edwards), UNESCO, and a UK parliamentary select
 committee (Eve), delivering more than 200 invited talks. OLH won Coko Foundation’s Open
 Publishing Award, 2019 and AOP Digital Publishing Award for Small Digital Publisher of the
 Year (2020).
 Other OA initiatives include: MIROnline (see 3.2), our creative-writing hub and virtual
 springboard for emerging writers, succeeding PORES online poetics journal mentioned in
 REF2014; and Vadillo’s networks around Pre-Raphaelites Online and COVE (see 1.5), which
 produces training and collaborative digital editions of nineteenth-century texts and illustrations.
 Colleagues generate OA content, choose OA publishers, contribute to established blogs
 (Luckhurst, the British Library; Woolley, Open Democracy) and provide other OA resources –
 e.g. Litt’s creative writing course. Bauer’s monograph, Hirschfeld Archives, was selected for, and
 funded as OA by Knowledge Unlatched.
 Birkbeck complies with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity. Birkbeck’s Research
 Integrity Code of Practice is laid out on its website and institutional environment statement.
 Since REF2014, ETCW research ethics procedures have come under the stewardship of the
 School Research Ethics Officer (ETCW’s Walsh). The ETCW Research Ethics Officer (DREO)
 sits on the School Research Ethics Committee.
 ETCW’s commitment to research integrity and ethics reflects its obligations to a diverse student
 body. Expectations on standards are embedded in core curriculums and student handbooks.

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Ethics procedures are initiated by individuals, but doctoral supervisors, or those involved in grant
 support, ensure that individual researchers follow ethics procedures (completing a Proposal for
 Ethical Review involving project outline, interview questions, consent forms and participant-
 information sheets). Using criteria mapped in the College Guidelines on Responsibilities and
 Procedures for Ethical Review, DREOs approve routine applications or refer them to School or
 College. Applications are stored on the School research-ethics database.
 2. People
 At the census date, ETCW comprised 46 colleagues, 10 part-time and 36 full-time. 14 Lecturers
 A-B, 10 Senior Lecturers, 9 Readers and 13 Professors.
 Our appointments’ strategy is informed by strategic goals set out in 1.2. Since REF2014, ETCW
 has expanded (+4 permanent staff): 11 colleagues left (2 retired, 9 moved); 15 permanent
 colleagues joined the remaining 28: these appointments represent period coverage, from the
 early Middle Ages to the contemporary, and expansion in theatre studies and creative writing.
 We accommodate colleagues’ need for flexibility through fractional contracts. We regularly
 employ colleagues for fixed-term grant-funded teaching relief.
 Our intergenerational research environment is enriched by emeritus colleagues, early career
 researchers, and fellows. Among our eight emeritus colleagues, who contribute to our research
 in advisory and mentoring roles and are actively involved in research training and planning in
 nineteenth-century and periodical studies; Colin MacCabe founded and chairs the Derek Jarman
 Lab. Wellcome ISSF has funded postdoctoral fellows Sophie Jones and Heather Tilley, now at
 Strathclyde and QMUL respectively, and 16 ISSF-funded 3-6 month PGR awards to ECRs who
 recently completed PhDs with us. Between 2014-20 we hosted around 160 honorary and
 associate fellows, including more than 20 annually at CCTheatre and 3 at BIH. At census date
 we were home to e.g. CCTheatre fellows Alinah Azadeh (performance artist), Dickie Beau
 (performer), Julius Green (author and West End theatre producer), Elizabeth Lynch OBE
 (producer and arts consultant); ETCW fellows Douglas Kerr (University of Hong Kong, literary
 scholar), Sarah Lightman (graphic artist); and BIH visiting fellow Valentina Napolitano (University
 of Toronto, anthropologist of migration).
 ETCW’s staff development strategy invests extensively in research support, supplementing
 College training (e.g. supervision practice, public engagement): all colleagues have compulsory
 annual research interviews with RD and another senior colleague in addition to academic
 review. Colleagues come together at an annual research away-day and research lunches.
 ETCW facilitates one-to-one peer mentoring; mentoring is discussed at meetings, Research
 Day, and will be further formalised as per the Athena Swan action plan.
 Staffing strategy since 2014 has interconnected disciplinary and thematic areas (especially
 critical and creative practice). We support ECR fellowship applicants (on average seven
 annually); hire emerging scholars with outstanding potential, but also senior colleagues. We
 welcome their intellectual leadership. We advertise roles internationally, emphasizing strategic
 interests in specification packs. Staffing decisions reflect our global perspective on English
 Studies.
 Early Career Researchers’ integration into the Department’s research culture starts with reduced
 workloads during their initial three-year probation period. Probation review provides ETCW with
 feedback on working conditions and probationers with formal regular mentoring to set and
 review goals. ECRs, permanent and fixed-term, are entitled to the same rights (expenses,
 research interview) as others; fixed-term colleagues receive support to apply for fellowships and
 jobs.



                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research leave policy stipulates that all permanent colleagues apply for one term’s leave every
 nine; applications are approved by School Executive, which also reviews leave period
 objectives. Demanding AD roles are followed by a year’s sabbatical. Colleagues can apply for
 teaching relief (School Strategic Research Fund) to prepare grant applications.
 Our rich ecology of knowledge exchange partnerships and networks (see 1.5) is often forged by
 individuals, shared through clusters and underpinned by institutional infrastructure and
 procedures. The impact officer, SRM and RD direct external calls for collaboration to relevant
 staff and help them to identify potential stakeholders. Impact and Public Engagement Officers
 and Peltz Gallery staff run workshops on stakeholder recruitment and open lines of
 communication; colleagues share contacts and methods. The School has also brokered official
 partnership arrangements, e.g. with the ICA.
 Research and engagement are key criteria for promotion, with equal weighting to teaching.
 Since 2014, the college promoted eight staff to Senior Lecturer, seven to Reader, and four to
 Professor. We ensure transparency and fairness in recruitment and promotion procedures as
 per the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers.
 We support one of the largest PGR communities for our discipline nationally. On the census date
 we supervised 111 doctoral students (101 ETCW; 10 remaining from the London Consortium,
 our prior doctoral partnership with the Architectural Association, ICA, Science Museum, and Tate
 Gallery): 48 full-time, 63 part-time, 18 fully funded and 9 with fee waivers. Since 01.08.2013 we
 have awarded 129 PhDs, including 39 from the London Consortium, and 3 registered with the
 School.

 We are proud of the achievements of PGRs and recent alumni. In 2019 current PhD student
 Keith Jarrett’s poem ‘From the Log-Book’ was projected onto St Paul’s and Coventry cathedrals
 in the collaborative work Where Light Falls, commemorating the Blitz. Recent creative MA
 alumni have won lucrative and prestigious book contracts and awards.

 We advertise our doctoral programmes online, in printed prospectuses, and hold ‘taster’
 evenings and funding information events, as well as staffing College-led open evenings.
 Individual colleagues, PGR Director and a dedicated PGR administrator field enquiries.
 Advertising and recruitment for funded places are coordinated by the Graduate Research
 School, CHASE, and the Bloomsbury Colleges Consortium. Our evening teaching model and
 flexible supervision timetabling particularly attracts working students. Our strategy to diversify
 the student body is underpinned by funding opportunities such as the College’s Diversity 100
 Studentships.

 We have an established progression route to doctoral studies through fourteen research-led
 MAs/MFAs (four new since REF2014; currently 294 students). Although MA level is often the
 apex of students’ research ambitions in creative practice, our intake of creative-practice
 MPhil/PhDs has expanded since REF2014, comprising a third in the 2019 cohort. Annually
 between 14-18 doctoral students enjoy full studentships, and 9-12 a fee waiver (i.e. around 25%
 have bursaries). We have maintained PGR numbers and since taking up full membership of
 CHASE as part of a winning AHRC DTP bid (2018), six students secured funding in the first two
 years of eligibility (2019/20 and 2020/21), including a CDA with the Wellcome Collection. Other
 scholarships are supported by the Bloomsbury Colleges Consortium, College, School, or
 philanthropic donors (e.g. Peltz scholarships, Stuart Hall Foundation scholarships). Some
 schemes are aimed at students from disadvantaged or BAME backgrounds (Kit de Waal, and
 Andrew Lloyd Webber Scholarships). The Kit de Waal Scholarship 2015-2019 contributed


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 £65,000, diversifying MA Creative Writing intakes. Some international students are supported by
 their home government funding schemes (e.g. Canada, Japan).
 Since REF2014 our progress and completion strategies have improved our PGR completion
 rates (mean p.a. 18.5 as against 17.6 in REF2014). The restructuring of Birkbeck’s Graduate
 Research School (BGRS) brought consistency across College, coordinating generic skills
 training, and providing mandatory PGR supervision training. Colleagues new to PhD supervision
 co-supervise until their first student completes. Students have a secondary supervisor, meet
 their supervisors at least three times a term (full-time) or twice (part-time). We track student
 progress through an annual graduate monitoring interview, which includes reports from
 supervisors and students, and a summative written report with recommendations. The upgrade
 process (Yr2, full-time; Yr3/4, part-time) has recently been complemented by the institution of
 informal progression meetings (PGR Director and School PGR administrator), in advance of
 formal academic progress reviews, to support students to completion.

 MPhil students attend a taught programme, promoting cohort cohesion (Research Skills, Critical
 Theory, and Bloomsbury Research Lectures). Optional training for PhDs includes research-led
 filmmaking, Teaching the Arts in Higher Education, presentation skills training through the Work
 in Progress Conference and BGRS’s 3-minute Thesis Competition. BGRS also commissions
 digital humanities, fieldwork techniques, publishing and public engagement training through
 research centres and institutes. Internships offer transferrable skills in events
 programming/management at Peltz Gallery and the Graduate Research in Theatre (GRiT),
 production research with The Globe, and publishing (MIROnline, see 3.2). Editorial internships
 with 19 are funded and advertised across CHASE; and CHASE’s other internships are open to
 our PGRs (e.g. Kierri Price, BBC podcast You’re Dead to Me). Cross-disciplinary training is
 offered through partnerships with the Bloomsbury Postgraduate Skills Network and CHASE.
 Student-led PGR activities include reading groups, workshops, conferences, and writing retreats.
 Research centres empower students to plan and run events, build networks and trial public
 engagement through Arts Week. Internal funds support PGR-led initiatives such as Colm
 McAuliffe (PhD)’s Lorraine Lim award for his Raymond Williams series (2018) and Sasha
 Dovzhyk (PhD)’s Wellcome ISSF-funded conference ‘La Maladie Fin de Siècle: Decadence and
 Disease’ (2019). Students have access to a shared workroom, £300 for conference expenses
 annually, and a further £150 for extraordinary research expenses on application.
 Intellectual communities for PGR students include ETCW, School, research centres and
 institutes, CHASE, and the University of London School of Advanced Study e.g. Institute for
 Historical Research, Institute of English Studies, Warburg Institute. Our London location is rich
 with galleries, libraries and museums, with whom we have active links.
 Commitment to Equality and Diversity (E&D) is central to ETCW research. For instance,
 Hamblyn and Litt’s Wellcome-ISSF-funded series connect writers and medical practitioners on
 Creative Writing and Mental Health (2017). Litt is the sole creative practitioner in the core
 management team of the Student Mental Health Research Network (SMaRteN).
 AD Equalities (Winning) and departmental E&D-lead (Walsh) shape equality and diversity
 strategy, implementing mandatory E&D and Unconscious Bias training, using role-play to raise
 awareness of the experience of people with protected characteristics. Our E&D strategy is
 discussed at annual teaching day, in annual staff research interviews and PGR supervision. An
 Equality Impact Assessment of our REF2014 submission found no equalities concerns in ETCW.
 Of 46 staff, 28 are women and 18 men; 8 of 13 professors. Heads of Department since 2014
 have been women. ETCW is international, with a significant staff-population born and brought up


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 outside the UK. Many colleagues have disabilities and health needs, although not always
 declared. The disability office supports students; health and well-being support is available for
 staff, and the college is committed to the Disability Confident scheme. We celebrate the diversity
 of our PGR body, with e.g. its large group of mature students. To attract more BAME PGR
 students and improve BAME representation in the future workforce, we recently reviewed
 curriculums at all levels with a systematic decolonisation agenda and appointed a lecturer in
 Transnational Literature and Migration Cultures (Woolley). To improve representation amongst
 staff, we advertise internationally and prioritise areas which will further diversify our research
 environment.
 ETCW leads in staff diversity networks (e.g. Out@Birkbeck staff network founded by Bale and
 Winning; Eve chairs the College-wide Staff Disability Network). Eligible female staff have
 participated in the Aurora mentoring scheme, which develops women’s leadership potential, for
 instance preparing Bauer for the HoD role. To combat precarity, we prefer leave-replacement
 contracts to extend for a year and include research. While at Birkbeck Sophie Jones co-authored
 ‘The Precarious Postdoc: Interdisciplinary Research and Casualised Labour in the Humanities
 and Social Sciences’ for the series Working Knowledge: People and Roles, which informed
 discussion at research away-day 2019.
 E&D in relation to gender, including intersectionally, has been reviewed during the School
 Athena Swan Bronze application process initiated by AD Equalities Winning and Arts Dean Bale
 (2018). That review found examples of good practice: e.g. no gender inequality in relation to
 reward and promotion. Internal grant schemes have featured career-break awards (Wellcome-
 ISSF career-break funding, £57,917). AD Equalities attends all meetings. We acted to ensure
 gender balance on the REF evaluation committee and support the College’s 2019 gender review
 of the Work Allocation Model. The draft action plan identifies areas for future effort to formalise
 our already strong research mentoring system, improve induction for new colleagues, and
 ensure awareness of special circumstances processes in any future REF EDAP.
 The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted inequalities and made addressing them urgent; it has
 made certain groups, e.g. disabled staff or those with long-term health conditions, particularly
 vulnerable. In the summer and autumn terms 2020, AD Equalities and AD Research redirected
 School research funds to support staff whose time was compromised, e.g. by caring
 responsibilities or home-schooling duties. In addition to termly funds for teaching relief, the
 College’s Research Innovation Fund advertised recovery funds, which were taken up. New
 provision is now announced in future promotion processes to recognise COVID-19
 circumstances.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Research Funding and Income Strategies
 A shown in REF4b, our research income in this period is £2,166,445; or £309,492 p.a.
 (compared to £180,522 in REF2014/4B). In line with our strategy, this funding has been secured
 from a more diverse and sustainable portfolio, including charities and international funders as
 well as UKRI.

 Notable awards include funds won for the OLH from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation and
 OpenAIRE (£517,462; Edwards and Eve), £360,586 from the AHRC (Bauer, Hartnell, Leslie,
 Vadillo, Winning, Woolley), £315,201 from the Leverhulme Trust (Bale, Calè, Eve, Woods),
 £52,673 from the British Academy (Wiseman), a further £48,821 from the Andrew W. Mellon
 Foundation, for a non-OLH project (Eve), £25,000 MHRA (Luckhurst), £9606 from Creative
 Works/AHRC (Luckhurst), £5000 from the Council for British Research in the Levant (Willey);


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 £4242 from the ESRC (Litt); and £4000 from the Pilgrim Trust (Bale). Also included is the
 external funding of Wellcome ISSF grants (£343,369: doubled by college match funding), which
 has seeded a vibrant emergent strand of medical humanities research (see 1.2c, 1.3c, 1.4, 1.5).
 Commercial investment by television companies and theatres is crucial to disseminating drama
 outputs: e.g. Teevan’s two five-episode drama series Rebellion had budgets exceeding €6M and
 grant awards from RTÉ (€600,000; see impact case study); multi-million-pound investment was
 also attached to three other peak-viewing-time drama series (Teevan’s Charlie; Carville’s The
 Bay, two series, with a third now planned) and a standalone film (Eldridge’s The Scandalous
 Lady W). The budgets of the television outputs exceed £21M. Playwrights’ work is supported by
 considerable investment from theatres and radio work (e.g. Bell, Eldridge, Warner) from the
 BBC.

 Not included in our figures above are the amounts generated through dissemination and
 knowledge exchange activities, for example: Eve’s COPIM project described at 1.5; £20,200 Arts
 Council for England Awards for Bell and Swain (made to individuals rather than institutions). For
 research activities beyond Birkbeck (conferences, exhibitions, publications, work through
 research societies), colleagues gather smaller amounts (£200-£5000) through other institutions’
 accounts (e.g. Institute for English Studies, National Gallery). A range of residencies,
 fellowships, consultancy placements, and travel grants (4.7) also funded and enriched our
 collective intellectual life, demonstrating international standing. ETCW staff and PhD students
 receive internal funding through research centres, School Research Committee, research
 institutes (BIH, BIMI, BISR), College Research Centre Collaboration Scheme (Burdett, Flynn),
 Impact Seed Funding (Teevan), and ISSF.
 3.2 Research and Impact Infrastructure
 Research Centres and Institutes
 Research centres and institutes are crucial elements of our research strategy. At the point of
 submission, the Department runs seven research centres, the cross-school BiGS (founded by
 Bauer, currently directed by Walsh) and BIH (co-directed by Leslie and Rose), home to the
 acclaimed Critical Theory Summer School.

 ETCW-led research centres support dialogue across disciplines using steering group
 membership to involve colleagues from other departments and institutions: for instance,
 CMedHums (see 1.2) includes colleagues from Geography, Psychosocial Studies, HCA, HOA,
 C&L; the Eighteenth-Century Research Group colleagues from C&L, HCA, HOA. Through the
 School’s fellowship scheme, research centres cultivate exchanges with clinicians (CMedHums),
 writers (CConLit; CPoeticsR), and artists and theatre professionals (CCTheatre). Among the
 annual features of our cultural programming, CConLit hosts the comic studies Transitions
 conference inaugurated by PhD Tony Venezia (2012), and the Centre for Nineteenth-Century
 Studies (CNS) hosts Dickens Day.

 Research centres nurture the future of the discipline, bringing together MA and PhD students
 with early career researchers, permanent staff, and emeriti often actively involved in cultural
 programming, as well as mentoring and training initiatives. The CConLit fosters the student-led
 London Science Fiction Community, inaugurated in 2014 and supported by a science-fiction
 specialist staff member.

 Networks and partnerships sustained through Research Centre activities are exemplified by the
 CCTheatre’s visiting fellows and extensive partnerships with theatres across the world, offering a
 dynamic programme of performances (e.g. St James’s Garden Project, with Camden People’s

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Theatre, 2018), Theatre Conversations (e.g. Gbolahan Obisesan, 2019), conferences (e.g.
 Theatres of Contagion, 2017) and a termly Graduate Research in Theatre seminar (GRiT).

 Our newest centre, The Centre for Medieval and Early Modern Worlds, directed by Davis, was
 inaugurated in 2019 by ETCW in collaboration with HCA, Philosophy, HOA, and C&L. Its
 networks build on the Birkbeck Medieval Seminar, London Renaissance Seminar and CHASE
 events (e.g. Matter of the Archive before 1700, 2017-18).

 An example of the Centres’ transferrable skills opportunities is offered by CNS, home of the
 discipline-crossing OA journal 19, whose digital editorial intern training, now funded by a
 CHASE-wide postgraduate internship, has seeded successful academic.

 The Mechanics Institute Review online (MIROnline), project-managed by Bell and overseen by
 Content Editor, Peter Coles, is an international forum for creative writing, launched in 2016 with
 ACE funding, building on prior departmental initiatives: ‘Hubbub’ (live creative writing events
 listings) and Writers’ Hub (online forum). It offers a virtual supplement to Birkbeck’s creative
 writing print publication Mechanics Institute Review, founded in 2004. MIROnline is edited by
 current students and alumni, working with 50 volunteers; it provides editorial experience,
 training, creative writing workshops and showcases work in progress from a range of writers,
 linking them with the publishing industry. In 2019 it instituted a creative writing competition in
 collaboration with the Booker Prize. Between 2018 and 2020 its social media footprint increased
 by 200%.

 Institutional Support Structures
 The RD leads on the unit’s research strategy, discussing and disseminating College and School
 plans through membership on Research Committees at all levels; organises research interviews,
 mentor scheme, research away-day; has academic oversight of grant/fellowship applications,
 reading drafts, and organizing internal peer review. SRM and College Office assist with costing
 and post-award support; the Impact Officer with pathways to impact; Library staff with data
 management and institutional repository compliance. Administrative colleagues support PGR
 students and events.
 Colleagues can draw on a personal research fund up to £700 (conference attendance, image
 permissions, etc.) and apply to the School Research Committee, which distributes up to £30,000
 a year (up to £1200 per application). Staff are supported to apply for internal funds (see 3.1).
 3.3 Operational and Scholarly Infrastructure
 Our central London premises house the Keynes Library, a range of lecture halls and classrooms,
 and offices. Postgraduates have shared space. We are co-located with administrative
 colleagues. The main building houses the College library, whose rare books and archives
 collection have been used creatively in our research, e.g. Bale’s re-discovery of four medieval
 books led to a Leverhulme-funded artist in residence, animator Shay Hamias. We are in walking
 distance of the Senate House Library, the Warburg Institute Library, the British Library, the
 Wellcome Collection and other specialist research facilities with whom we hold workshops and
 other initiatives.
 The building contains a cinema, the Peltz gallery, and performance space used by staff and
 PGR students to develop research and practise public engagement. The Derek Jarman Lab
 trains and supports us to ‘think with film’. These facilities are staffed by Peltz director, Events
 Manager, filmmakers and producers. Colleagues in e.g. FMACS and the VASARI Centre advise
 and collaborate.



                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Exhibitions in the Peltz Gallery offer knowledge exchange and public engagement opportunities:
 for instance, How We Read: Sensory History of Books for the Blind (2014), developed around
 Tilley’s monograph, Blindness and Writing, involved stakeholders such as RNIB; Conceiving
 Histories (Davis, 2017, with artist Anna Burel) brought together fertility health activists, artists,
 academics and members of the public; Capsule: Inside the Medieval Book (Bale, 2018)
 exhibited the College’s Book of Hours with Bale and Hamias’s creative-critical animations;
 Circus Life: Art and Artistes (Owen/Walsh, 2018) captured the 250th anniversary of Astley’s
 Amphitheatre through artworks and a performance programme in partnership with The Academy
 of Circus Arts; Day for Night: Landscapes of Walter Benjamin (Bell, 2018 with writer, Jean
 McNeil, and artist, Diego Ferrari) detailed the landscapes and people of Port de la Salva (Spain),
 where Benjamin died. We also exhibited the international Wellcome-funded Transitional States:
 Hormones at the Crossroads of Art and Science (Chiara Beccalossi,
 Lincoln/Bologna/London/Barcelona, 2018-20), developing its London events programme,
 bringing together LGBTQ+ activists, artists, and academics.
 Arts Week, led by Owen and Wiseman, is an annual festival of talks, panel discussions,
 screenings, performances, exhibitions, and interactive workshops. Staff and PGR students use
 Arts Week to establish and consolidate research relationships, experiment with new forms,
 sharing ideas and approaches.
 In 2020 ETCW enhanced and diversified its digital infrastructure in response to COVID-19. Arts
 Week’s move from physical to digital platforms multiplied the reach of our events by four.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Building external partnerships was identified for strategic development in REF2014. We use
 extensive collaborations, whether internal, local, national and international, to deliver doctoral
 training, produce discipline-crossing outputs, gather new insights, and engage public audiences.
 We have appointed colleagues with established networks, e.g. Willey’s poetic practice in the
 West Bank (1.5), Bintley’s Heritage Lottery funded ‘Finding Eanswythe’.

 4.1 Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
 Grant income networks our research with specialists across the world, sometimes supported by
 built-in admin, otherwise through the college’s research office. For instance, Bale’s Leverhulme
 International Network ‘Pilgrim Libraries’ connected Birkbeck with the Hebrew University of
 Jerusalem (Israel); Centre for Pilgrimage Studies (York); Rijksuniversiteit, Groningen
 (Netherlands); Institute of Pilgrimage Studies, The College of William and Mary, Virginia (USA);
 and Konninklink Niederlands Institut, Rome (Italy). Eve’s Andrew W. Mellon funded ‘Reading
 Peer-Review' brought together scholars from Canada, Australia and the UK with stakeholders in
 OA publishing. Six AHRC-funded projects coalesced international networks to work on histories
 of sexology (Bauer); US literature and culture (Hartnell); animation (Leslie); the Pre-Raphaelite
 movement (Vadillo); Dorothy Richardson’s writing (Winning); displaced people (Woolley).
 Together these have formed teams from five continents to produce co-authored publications:
 special editions of Journal of Lesbian Studies (2014), Animation (2017), Journal of Medieval &
 Early Modern Studies (2021), and the edited book Reading Peer Review (2021). They made
 new primary materials available (Richardson’s letters), offered PGR training (e.g. CHASE
 ‘Animate Assembly’, 2017), held public-facing events (e.g. Bauer’s LGBT History month
 screening of Anders als die Andern/Different from the Others, 1919, considered the first
 homosexual movie released in cinemas), initiated new funding bids (Bauer’s Wellcome ISSF-
 funded ‘Visual Archives of Sexology’; Bale’s lead of ‘Ways to the Holy Land’ cluster, in a pan-
 European COST Action bid on ‘Cultures of Europe's Historic Routes’, in process).



                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our partnerships reach beyond academia, particularly linking with creative practitioners, theatre
 professionals and visual artists. Visiting fellowships give a platform to creative collaborations.
 We hosted two funded artist residencies: in addition to Bale’s work with Hamias, Ilter facilitated
 composer Lily Hunter Green’s installation Bee Composed Live (2018). Leslie’s partnership with
 artist Melanie Jackson (RCA) on cultural meanings of milk as a primal and technologized fluid
 featured at Limerick Biennale (COVID-19 disrupted); Davis worked with artist Anna Burel on an
 exhibition, Conceiving Histories, and public engagement activities on fertility (e.g. Fertility Fest
 2018).
 Colleagues are also recruited by high-profile international projects. For example, Finlay’s Old
 Norse expertise attracts commissions e.g. as English translator for an international edition of the
 Flateyjarbók; a project run by the Saga Heritage Foundation, led by Torgrim Titlestad
 (Stavanger), endorsed by the Icelandic president. This collaboration takes shape through events
 in the UK, Norway, Orkney, and the US.
 4.2 Knowledge Exchange and Public Engagement
 Our work with stakeholders is focused around the following areas:
 1) Pedagogical Research
       a) Creative Writing Workshops
 Rethinking the form and function of Creative Writing workshops, Willey devised exercises in
 Arabic and English with Syrian writer Ammar Haj Ahmed that bridge language barriers through
 multilingual expertise, typical in cosmopolitan workshops (West Bank/UK, 2015). Shared at
 subsequent projects/events (Stories in Transit, Words on the Move, and Arabic Poetry and
 Stories in Translation, see 4.4, 4.6), these exercises undergird future work in Palestine, when
 COVID-19 allows (see 1.5).
        b) Teaching Theatre
 Work transforming the teaching of drama and theatre practice include Woods’ work as co-
 ordinator of the 'Shakespeare Conversations' and as co-editor of a new CUP Shakespeare
 series, collaborating with teachers, academics and theatre practitioners. Swain has developed
 actors’ training for the Globe and RSC, and directors’ training for the Young Vic.
        c) Medical Humanities
 Several medical teaching institutions (e.g. Imperial College, St George’s Medical School, and
 the Royal College of Psychiatrists) participate in Winning’s medical humanities knowledge
 exchange on the role of the humanities in clinical curriculums. Davis’s public engagement work
 reconsiders fertility awareness with e.g. London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, fertility
 counselling professionals, and as contributor to the Modern Families Fertility Education Project
 (2018).

 2) Museum and Gallery Engagement
 Colleagues share research with museums/galleries and their public audiences: Bale’s work with
 the Jewish Museum (see impact case study); Bauer spoke at Schwules Museum (Berlin) for its
 Odarodle exhibition on German colonial entanglements with LGBT history; Bintley contributed
 interactive Old English workshops at the British Library during their Anglo-Saxon Kingdoms
 exhibition; Burdett and Swain work with the National Gallery (4.5); Calè organised a conference
 responding to objects in the Ashmolean exhibition Blake: Apprentice and Master (2014); Davis
 contributed to the Portraying Pregnancy exhibition events (Foundling Museum, 2020, partially
 COVID-19 disrupted); Edwards curated the Imagined Futures exhibition, Museum of London,
 part of their City Now: City Future season (2017-18); Hamblyn spoke at the Tate Gallery / Royal

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Meteorological Society Art and Skies Symposium (2015); Senior held a conference at Tate
 Britain, around their exhibition Artist and Empire (2015); Vadillo’s AHRC-funded Pre-Raphaelites
 Online network brings UK and US HEIs together with galleries and museums (e.g. the Watts
 Gallery, Birmingham City Museum and Art Gallery, Delaware Art Museum, and Yale Center for
 British Art) to reframe the Pre-Raphaelites for transatlantic audiences.
 3) Media and Social Media
 Colleagues use media and social media as part of larger programmes of research activity. Since
 REF2014, colleagues have contributed to TV and Radio schedules across 15 networks, 10
 countries, five continents, including local and national UK broadcasters. Colleagues with notable
 media profiles include Angel, Bell, Eldridge, Hamblyn, Leslie, Litt, Luckhurst, Msiska, Rose,
 Warner. As well as writers of screen and radio drama, others are engaged as research
 consultants, contribute to or make film or radio programmes in relation to their research: for
 example, Bale (BBC, Radio 4, ‘In our Time’, 2016; ‘Britain’s Most Historic Towns’, Channel 4,
 2020), Edwards and Hartnell (BBC R4, Woman’s Hour), McAllister (BBC, Howards End, 2017),
 Luckhurst (e.g. BBC, ‘A House through Time’, 2019), Warner’s R4 series ‘What is a Story?’
 (2015). Leslie and Sam Dolbear (PhD) recreated a radio show from 1932 in their work on Ernst
 Schoen and radio history. In the print press, colleagues have a special link with the LRB (Rose,
 and contributing editor Warner), but also write for TLS, Guardian, THE, Los Angeles Review of
 Books, FT, Daily Telegraph. Several colleagues have prominent internet profiles: e.g. Eve on
 Open Access. Among social media initiatives, CNS’s Our Mutual Friend Reading Project (2014-
 15), led by Calè, reinvented serial reading in monthly parts, including creative writing
 experiments with participants tweeting as Dickens characters.
 One example of media integration is Hamblyn’s work on histories of meteorology, complemented
 by ‘Cloud-a-day’ emails circulated by the Cloud Appreciation Society; TED-Ed animation ‘How
 did Clouds Get their Names’, viewed online over 700,000 times; interviews on multiple radio
 stations e.g. on ‘circumzenithal arcs’ (upside-down rainbows); collaboration with artist Katie
 Paterson and Tate, St Ives; leadership of, and participation in festivals, the Lundy Sky Gathering
 and Ways with Words; journalism (TLS, BBC Countryfile Magazine); and public events with the
 Royal Meteorological Society and Cloud Appreciation Society.
 4.3 Wider Contributions to the Economy and Society
 ETCW’s principal economic contributions are in academic publishing, creative/museum
 industries, and jobs and revenue generated by dramatic outputs (see impact case studies, 1.4;
 1.5). Carville’s The Bay is the first drama to use Morecambe as a setting; the production team
 works with organisations such as the Morecambe Business Improvement District to benefit local
 communities. New start-ups are serving a local film industry initiated by the series, e.g. The Bay
 Casting (actor/film agency). These series have also generated advertising revenue. The Bay’s
 effect on Morecambe is on-going.
 The social benefits of ECTW research include the historicization of challenging subjects: Bale
 and David Feldman (HCA)’s research shaped exhibitions mounted at the Jewish Museum as
 anger about antisemitism in public politics was particularly raw (Blood and Jews, Money, Myth,
 see impact case study). Others, too, bring archival research to charged discussions, e.g. on
 legacies of slavery (Senior, Wordsworth Trust/Tullie House Museum’s Black History Month talk,
 2016) and histories of homosexuality and homophobia.
 Msiska’s engagement in historical perspectives on colonisation and capacity building in Africa
 includes: public engagement (e.g. National Theatre talk, part of a 2015 series on work by black
 playwrights); workshops with Southern African ECRs on research skills and publication
 (University of Malawi, 2018; Botswana, 2020 partially COVID-19-disrupted); lecture series


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Council for the Development of Social Science Research in Africa, Gabarone, Botswana 2015);
 interviews (Kenyan KBC English Service radio, Malawian television, and Malawian newspaper,
 The Nation); literary festivals (The Story Club, Malawi; Hargeysa International Book Fair,
 Somaliland); service on literary prize panels (Brunel University African Poetry Prize 2014; Caine
 Prize Council -2018 and Caine Prize Advisory Council 2018, International Dublin Literary Award
 2018; Makawena’s Daughters Short Story and Poetry Competitions 2019); service on charitable
 boards (Governing Council, British Academy Research Institute in Eastern Africa -2021; council
 member, Royal Africa Society, 2002-18; trustee of Canon Collins Legal and Educational Trust
 since 2009, with a mission to build ‘a community of change agents across southern Africa who
 create and use research for social impact’).
 4.4 Contribution to the Sustainability of the Discipline
 Since REF2014 colleagues have published 44 books (including novels and poetry collections),
 edited 17 books and 20 special editions of journals, written more than 200 book chapters and
 170 Journal articles, staged 5 plays (and many smaller performance events), written 4 radio
 plays and a radio documentary series; screened 5 TV drama series and 1 feature film.

 Colleagues have augmented the evidence base sustaining textual/literary studies through 10
 editions of primary works, including pioneering editions of Medieval English Travel Writing
 (Bale), Old English poetry (Bintley), previously unpublished letters by poets Michael Field
 (Vadillo), Dorothy Richardson’s letters and fiction (Winning); and new critical apparatus for
 popular editions of e.g. H. Rider Haggard, H. G. Wells and M. R. James (Luckhurst). Contracted
 editions include J. G. Ballard’s non-fiction (Blacklock), Olive Schreiner (Burdett), Thomas
 Hobbes’ De corpore (Clucas), Beckett’s late plays (Fifield), Walter Pater’s Renaissance (Fraser),
 Conan Doyle (Luckhurst/Kerr), Shakespeare’s plays for a new CUP series (Woods).
 Translations including Bale’s edition of The Book of Margery Kempe, Bintley’s Old English epic
 Andreas, Finlay’s Icelandic sagas, and Leslie’s Walter Benjamin On Photography, give modern
 Anglophone readers access to historically and internationally significant writing, whilst Ilter’s
 adaptation brings a provocative British play to Turkish and German audiences.
 Birkbeck-led CHASE-funded training in cultural transmission shapes our practice and the future
 of the discipline. ‘Scholarly Editing Unpacked’ (Burdett, Luckhurst, 2017) passes expertise and
 imaginative and theoretically informed approaches to the coming generation of textual scholars.
 ‘Arabic Poetry and Stories in Translation’ workshops (Warner and SOAS Arabist Wen-chin
 Ouyang, 2017-19) bring together an international team of writers, translators and critics from the
 Middle East and elsewhere to reinvent traditions in creative and critical practice, cross-cultural
 translation, adaptation, and generating new bodies of work for transnational publics.
 Contributions to the sustainability and vitality of the discipline also include many outputs not
 submitted to the REF: editing and writing for handbooks, companions, encyclopaedias and other
 teaching resources, e.g. The Creative Writing Coursebook, co-edited by Bell and UEA’s Paul
 Magrs (2001), reissued in 2019 with new foreword by Warner, contributions from e.g. Kit de
 Waal and Amy Liptrot, and sections on formal innovations (e.g. flash fiction).
 4.5 Interdisciplinary Research
 Our Interdisciplinary culture (see 1.2, 1.3, 1.6, 4.7), generated and sustained by research
 centres, institutes and collaborations (3.2), sets literature, theatre, and creative writing within
 other fields in the humanities, e.g. archaeology; art practice, history and theory; philosophy;
 politics; information science; gender studies; as well as in dialogue with histories of science (see
 1.3b) and medical humanities (see 1.2).
 A strong example is in nineteenth-century visual/material cultures (Burdett, Calè, Fraser, Mills,
 Senior, Vadillo) supported by the Birkbeck Nineteenth-Century Forum. Calè’s Leverhulme-

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funded The Book Unbound explores practices that turn books into visual repositories and
 redefine reading through viewing and collecting; Fraser’s collaboration with Susanna Avery-
 Quash (National Gallery) on Old Masters and nineteenth-century women collectors and writers is
 underpinned by CDP co-supervision, a conference and special edition of 19. Mills’ research on
 collecting builds on her experience as a museum practitioner. Vadillo partnered with the Watts
 Gallery for a BAVS-funded conference around their Christina Rossetti exhibition (2018). Senior’s
 collaboration with Sarah Thomas (HOA) led to a Tate Britain conference (Artist and Empire,
 2015), and a special issue of Atlantic Studies: Colonial Ways of Seeing (2021). Experimenting in
 the Galleries (Burdett, Swain and Matthew Longo in Psychological Sciences, with the National
 Gallery) applies Vernon Lee’s aesthetic theory and movement studies from theatre directing
 research and psychology to captivate gallery goers.
 4.6 Responsiveness to National and International Priorities and Initiatives
 Our principal contributions to research priorities are in the OA movement and digital publication
 (see 1.4 and 1.5); environmental and animal studies; feminist and queer history and culture;
 human health and medicine; and migration and critical race studies. For instance, ETCW’s
 engagement with displaced people and refugees brings humanities perspectives to the geo-
 political and environmental phenomenon of displacement as evidenced by migration-related UN
 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG 10.7). Colleagues’ work wrests back narrative authority
 for displaced people: Flynn was a contributor to the Theatre of Displaced People in Kyiv, and
 now develops Ukranian theatre networks (see 1.5); Williams works with others collegewide on
 the Compass Project, Birkbeck’s award-winning access scheme for asylum seekers, and with
 the Akwaaba storytelling group in Hackney; Woolley is PI in the Council for At-Risk Academics,
 Syria, and Co-I in an AHRC Interdisciplinary Network on Internal Displacement, Conflict and
 Protection (2019-20); Warner’s and Willey’s Stories in Transit Project with artistic collective
 Giocherenda (run by refugees in Palermo) puts on workshops (e.g. at Museo Internazionale
 Marionette, 2016), connecting migrants with artists, writers and musicians (with Universities of
 Palermo and Oxford, and the Hayward Gallery). These endeavours are shared at events like
 Words on the Move (Warner, Willey, Williams) and ‘Arabic Poetry and Stories in Translation’
 (see 4.4).
 4.7 indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base
 Colleagues sit on the advisory boards of 25 international peer-reviewed journals; five edit
 academic book series, and seven take a leading role in international journal publishing (see also
 1.7), e.g. Bale: Index of Middle English Prose, Cambridge Studies in Medieval Literature; Bintley:
 Boydell and Brewer, Literature and Environment; Calè: exhibitions editor, Blake/An Illustrated
 Quarterly; Clucas: editor, Intellectual History Review (until 2020); Davis: Boydell and Brewer,
 Chaucer Series; Eve: Bloomsbury New Horizons in Contemporary Writing; Finlay: editor, Saga-
 Book; Ferguson: associate editor, Gothic Studies; Mills: editor: 19; Walsh: editor, Theatre
 Research International; Woolley: reviews editor, Refugees and Conflict; Woods: Cambridge
 University Press: Elements in Shakespeare and Pedagogy.

 Service on Peer Review Colleges for Fellowship and Grant schemes includes AHRC peer
 review college (Eve, Fraser, Vadillo, Walsh, Woolley), UKRI Leaders Fellowships (Davis),
 Australian Research Council (Fraser).

 Colleagues have peer reviewed at least 1400 articles or book manuscripts for more than 50
 journals and academic presses and reviewed over 100 grant applications since REF2014.

 15 colleagues at all career stages took up 31 distinguished fellowships and visiting positions
 across 10 countries, from library fellowships (e.g., Duke; Harry Ransom, Austin Texas; Harvard;


                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Huntington, William and Mary College; Walpole) to visiting research fellowships (Bale:
 international fellow, Australian Research Council Centre of excellence for the History of
 Emotions, Melbourne; Calè: Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft Mercator Fellow, Bochum and
 Marburg; Clucas: Vossius Fellow, Amsterdam; Finlay: Snorri Sturluson Fellow, Iceland; Hartnell:
 Global South Fellow, New Orleans Center for the Gulf South, Tulane; Litt: Hawthornden Fellow;
 Luckhurst: Mellon Distinguished Visiting Fellow, Columbia, New York; Rose: Dartmouth College;
 Willey: poet in residence, University of Arizona Poetry Center). One example of colleagues’
 international profiles is Warner: Professorial Research Fellow at SOAS; Distinguished Visiting
 Professor, NYU Abu Dhabi (2014); Honorary Fellow, Italian Academy, Colombia University
 (2014); Director’s Fellow, Institute for Advanced Study Princeton (2015), and Distinguished
 Fellow, All Souls College, Oxford (2019).

 Colleagues with roles in learned societies include: Bale, Trustee (2016-20) and President of the
 New Chaucer Society (2020-); Bintley, Deputy Chair (2019) and Chair (2020-) Teachers of Old
 English in Britain and Ireland; Burdett, Executive Committee British Association of Victorian
 Studies (BAVs); Edwards, Founding Member of the British Association for Contemporary
 Literary Studies; Finlay, Honorary Secretary Viking Society; Fraser, President of BAVS (2015-
 18); Msiska (see 4.3); Warner, President of the Royal Society of Literature; Chair of the British
 Library Collections Committee; Walsh, Executive Committee, International Federation for
 Theatre Research (2018-); Winning, Association of Medical Humanities (Council member 2018-;
 Vice-President 2019-).
 Two monographs won awards (Senior, University English Book Prize, 2019; Wood,
 Shakespeare’s Globe Book Award, 2014). Walsh’s monograph was shortlisted for the UK
 Theatre Performance Association’s David Brady Award (2016); Brooker and Blacklock were
 shortlisted for academic essay prizes. In Creative Writing, Litt won the Short Fiction/University of
 Essex Prize (2020), Bell’s work fourth place in Bridport Poetry Prize (2016), four creative works
 were shortlisted (Litt’s Patience, Republic of Consciousness Prize 2020; Eldridge’s radio play,
 Jenny Lomas, Tinniswood Award 2018; Willey’s poetry collection Living In, Saw Tooth Poetry
 Prize 2015), six were longlisted for national prizes (Kim, Bell and Litt). Willey saw part of his
 poem, Sea Fever, incorporated into the Blackpool illuminations (2017).

 Other honours include Eve’s Philip Leverhulme prize (2020); Guardian’s HE awards, Most
 Inspiring Leader, finalist (2017); KU Leuven Medal of Honour in the Humanities and Social
 Sciences (2018). Warner was made DBE (2015), awarded the Holberg Prize in Arts and
 Humanities (2015), a British Academy Medal (2017). Since 2014 three colleagues (Leslie, Rose,
 Warner) have been elected Fellows of the British Academy.
 Colleagues also judge prizes: Litt (Wasafiri prize for new writing); Msiska, see 4.3; Rose, jury,
 Man-Booker (2018); Warner, Chair of Judges, International Man-Booker (2015). The Margaret
 Harkness prize is administered through 19.
 Colleagues have given more than 300 pitched conference papers and 550 invited, keynote
 papers, or public talks. Creative-practice colleagues extensively participate in festivals (e.g.
 Hay). Edwards’ and Eve’s OA advocacy interventions (see 1.7) reached academic conferences
 (e.g. MLA) and policy forums (e.g. EU commission) in 12 countries. Prestigious invited talks
 include: Bale: plenary, Practicing Emotions (Melbourne, 2015) and Brooke Lecture, Manchester
 (2018); Bauer: keynotes at Congress of the Humanities and Social Sciences, Vancouver (2019),
 and Thinking Sex after the Great War Conference, Brussels Royal Library (2018); Burdett:
 keynotes at Endgames and Emotions Conference (Universities of Tallinn and Helsinki, 2017)
 and Vernon Lee 2019, British Institute of Florence (2019), Darwin Memorial Lecture (2020);
 Davis: Felicity Riddy Lecture, York (2015); Finlay: Dorothea Coke Lecture in Northern Studies,

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UCL (2015); Fraser: ‘Women Writing Art History’, public lecture, British Institute of Florence
 (2015); Luckhurst: Roy Porter Lecture, Wellcome (2017); Rose: Edward Said Memorial Lecture
 (Princeton, 2016) and keynote, New York Centre for Modern Psychoanalytic Studies’ Annual
 Conference (2018), preceded by 6-month reading group on her work; Warner: Weidenfeld
 Lecture Series, Oxford (2016); Winning: Compass Chambers Annual Conference for Advocates,
 Edinburgh (2018); Woods: plenary, German Shakespeare Association Spring Conference
 (2017).

 We use cultural programming to shape our fields, from free public lectures such as our centre-
 piece Booker Prize Foundation at Birkbeck series and annual Matthews Lecture (endowed
 lecture alternating between English language and Medieval literature), and our research centre
 series, to our roles in running University of London intercollegiate series: London Renaissance
 Seminar; Early Modern Philosophy and the Scientific Imagination Seminar (EMPHASIS);
 London-Paris Romanticism Seminar; London Nineteenth-Century Seminar; London
 Postgraduate Conference in Nineteenth-Century Studies; London Modernism Seminar; London
 Science Fiction Research Community annual conference; London Theatre Seminar.
 Colleagues have organised more than 200 events since REF2014, including co-organising
 international conferences: London Chaucer Conference (2015)*; New Chaucer Society (2016,
 2018); Aesthetic Enlightenments, Huntington Library (2014); 100 Dubliners (2014)*; International
 James Joyce Symposium (2016), Chinua Achebe Conference (2015). *Included University
 Library rare-book exhibitions. Carville was founder member of the John O’Connor Writing School
 and Literary Arts Festival in Armagh (2016-19).
 To shape cross-disciplinary research agendas, collaborations, and public debate, ETCW runs
 symposia, conferences and other events: examples include Bale’s Leverhulme-funded Pilgrims
 Libraries events (London/Rome, 2016-7); Clucas’s collaboration with the Society for the History
 of Alchemy and Chemistry and the Plantin-Moretus Museum on John Dee and Alchemy and
 Print Culture (Antwerp/London, 2014/2018); True Crime Fictions (BIH, 2016), a creative and
 critical exchange between academics in English and Law, graphic artists, fiction, and screen
 writers. Our medical humanities strand intersects with gender, art and history in Wellcome-ISSF-
 funded The Pregnant Archive (2017) as part of Davis’s Conceiving Histories. Dissent in Dark
 Times is a new annual weekend school led by BIH in partnership with the LRB. Feminist
 Emergency (BIH, BiGs, BISR, British Comparative Literature Association, 2017) engaged
 theorists, poets, professionals, policy makers and activists in healthcare, education, domestic
 labour and sexual violence.
 Co-operation and collaborative arrangements for PGR training
 ETCW’s standing in PGR is evidenced by 165 PhDs examinations nationally and internationally
 since REF2014.
 Our innovative PhD supervision arrangements include one CDA (Davis with Wellcome archivist
 Elma Brenner, 2019-), one CDP (Fraser with NG curator Avery-Quash, 2016-20), two
 Bloomsbury Studentships with SOAS (Bell with Jörg Haustein; Msiska with Lutz Marten), and
 cross-disciplinary co-supervision arrangements with C&L, HOA, HCA, FMACS, Organisational
 Psychology, Psychosocial Sciences and Computer Sciences.
 Our cross-disciplinary PGR strategy also translates into 14 cross-disciplinary funded initiatives
 through the CHASE doctoral training partnership in collaboration with other Birkbeck
 Departments, other HEIs (e.g. Goldsmiths, Kent, OU, SOAS, and Sussex), and cultural
 institutions such as the ICA, theatres (e.g. Camden People's Theatre), museums and archives
 (e.g. British Museum Prints and Drawings, Science Museum). These training strands strengthen
 working partnerships and support our interdisciplinary research through multi-disciplinary

                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaborations: for instance, Sensible Cinema (Leslie, Joel McKim FMACS, Vasari Centre, and
 Goldsmiths, 2017) developed research methods for creating moving-image works and geo-
 aesthetic film-making practices; Landscapes of Utility (Hamblyn with Goldsmiths/OU 2018)
 involved anthropologists, geographers, landscape photographers and sound artists in
 developing creative and critical writing about environments such as landfills, industrial
 wastelands and utility plants.
 By fostering rigorous and creative multi-disciplinary methods we shape the emerging scholars of
 the future, enhancing English Language and Literature as a vibrant critical and creative
 discipline.




                                                                                         Page 20
