Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of the West of Scotland
 Unit of Assessment: 03: Allied Health, Dentistry Nursing and Pharmacy
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Structure of research
 The School of Health and Life Sciences (HLS) is the largest provider of nurse education in
 Scotland (2,409 pre-registration nursing and 395 midwifery students), with a high proportion of
 Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) registered staff who are experienced practitioners. HLS
 was formed in 2018, to merge the former Schools of Health, Nursing and Midwifery and the
 biomedical and sports components of the School of Science and Sport. Having secured
 GBP11,700,000 of external funding and generated 457 research outputs with 6,319 citations
 over the current REF period, HLS is an internationally recognised academic unit.
 HLS research benefits from visiting appointments with the Universities of Glasgow (where
 these are reciprocated), Strathclyde, Newcastle, Queen’s University Belfast, Hamburg, and
 Charles University (Cz) ensuring close integration of biomedical and practice-based disciplines.
 Furthermore, investment of GBP4,500,000 in state-of-the-art research spaces and
 laboratories at the new Lanarkshire Campus significantly up scales research capabilities. This
 submission comprises research undertaken by 33 headcount/32.5 FTE academics who have
 produced highly impactful outputs in wide-reaching biomedical/nursing/health journals. These
 publications derive from research collaborations with NHS partners, medical schools, major
 charities, Care Homes and other service providers. Research has grown and intensified through
 external funding from prestigious sources including: Special EU Programmes Body (SEUPB),
 BBSRC, CSO, Wellcome Trust, Versus Arthritis, Carnegie Trust, Alzheimer’s Society, McMillan
 Cancer Research, Cunningham Trust, Royal Society, Leverhulme Trust, Tenovus and industry.
 HLS includes three research institutes, Institute of Health and Care Research (IHCR), Institute
 of Biomedical and Environmental Health Research (IBEHR), and Institute of Clinical
 Exercise and Health Science (ICEHS), providing research leadership and infrastructure. IBEHR
 and IHCR (successor to the Institute of Healthcare Policy and Practice (IHCPP) described in
 REF2014) form the key pillars for this submission. IHCPP’s primary purpose was growth in
 research capability, accelerating maturation of the relatively young nursing and midwifery research
 culture.

 Research active staff from the Divisions of Adult Nursing and Healthcare, Mental Health Nursing
 and Integrated Practice, Midwifery and Specialist Nursing, Biological Sciences and Health, are
 affiliated to IBEHR/IHCR, and Sport and Exercise Divisional staff to ICEHS. Divisionally based
 post-graduate research students (approximately 71) are affiliated to appropriate research
 institutes.
 In 2019, revalidation of the NMC Adult Nursing and Mental Health Nursing programmes enabled
 introduction of an Honours year to both programmes for 40-50 students. This development signals
 an upward step change for research within nursing in the School and creates opportunity to
 explore clinical academic careers.
 Buoyant undergraduate student numbers in biology-related courses have remained stable over
 the REF period, while the PG cohort has increased, partly through the introduction in 2019 of the
 Master of Public Health course. Increasing research opportunities have been beneficially
 embedded in courses, reflected by the considerable rise in UG professional graduation data from
 67% to 96% since 2013/14.

 1.2 Review of REF 2014
 In REF2014, IBEHR (including 3 IHCPP researchers) received an overall rating of 63%
 internationally-recognised research excellence, with 16% of outputs rated as world-leading and
 88% of environment rated at international level. REF2014 feedback recognised the high proportion
 of ECRs included as a positive institutional investment.
 Central to our 2014 research plan was the establishment of synergistic research institutes, with
 the capability to translate discoveries from the laboratory to human environment and healthcare
 studies in areas of national and international importance.



                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Having exceeded research activity and impact growth targets through research capability
 development, we have laid foundations to build interdisciplinary research in key areas including
 progressive and enduring conditions of global significance (dementia, arthritis and COPD).

 1.3 Research Objectives (2014-2020)
 Informed by review of REF2014 performance, our key strategic research and impact goals (2014-
 2020) have been to:

    1. Grow capabilities, confidence and numbers of research staff aligned to IBEHR / IHCR,
       promoting a culture of research activity and engagement.
    2. Invest in ECR and mid-career researcher development.
    3. Increase number of nursing/midwifery staff with PhDs by 30%.
    4. Increase PGR student numbers and timely completions.
    5. Grow strategic research partnerships and external collaborations.
    6. Through IBEHR and IHCR build impactful thematic research and incubate nascent areas
       with potential.

 1.4 Current REF Period
 To deliver the goals listed in 1.3, School Research Enabling Plans progressed through stages of
 fostering a managed research environment with an emphasis on metric led improvement, towards
 integrated approaches to enable research propelled teaching programmes.

 The three School Institutes worked to thematically and collectively grow and mature the School
 research culture and amplify impact with recent focus on UN Sustainable Development Goals
 (SDGs).

 IBEHR combines research focused on humans, health and disease, and the environment,
 organised within 3 themes: chronic inflammatory disease, infection & microbiology and
 environmental health. IHCR research is focussed on four themes: dementia, mental health
 (global and forensic), deteriorating patient, and learning for practice.

 1.5 Achievement of strategic research goals (2014-2020)
 Strategic Goals 1-3 (see 1.3 above) focussed on research capability and capacity development
 (particularly for NMC registered staff) and both ECR and researcher development to upscale
 research activity. Through strategic investment in research capability development of NMC
 registered staff, we have exceeded our target increasing the number of healthcare staff returned
 from 3 to 21; a sevenfold increase. Growth in numbers of nursing staff with doctorates has also
 been exceeded, with 12 completing part-time doctorates, and new doctoral appointments.

 Engineered interconnectivity between IHCR and IBEHR has strengthened researcher
 development across disciplines. Building on this forward-looking enhancement of the research
 staff base, the current submission evidences an upward trajectory as seen by the emergence of
 IHCR, the inclusion of Centre for Environmental Research (IBEHR) staff as the critical mass to
 support a UOA7 submission, and the successful operation of the Infection & Microbiology
 Research Group at the interface of biomedical, healthcare and environmental research with staff
 being submitted across both UOA3 and UOA7.

 Strategic Goal 4 (see 1.3 above) addressed the challenge of low experienced supervisor capacity
 through a strategic staffing policy, combined with tactical composition of interdisciplinary
 supervisory teams, including experienced supervisors from other Schools. Since REF2014, when
 4 nursing PhDs were reported in UOA3, we have focussed on timely completions alongside
 expanding student numbers. Verifiable UWS doctoral graduation data confirm the number of PhD
 completions to be 61 within the census period. This represents an above sector completion rate
 of 90% within the maximum period of registration, a substantial achievement which evidences the
 success of our targeted approaches to developing supervisory capacity.



                                                                                           Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Strategic Goals 5-6 (see 1.3 above) focussed on growing strategic partnerships and impactful
 research. These inextricably linked goals involved brokerage of research collaborations with
 centres of research excellence within the UK and internationally for example Queens University
 Belfast, the Universities of Glasgow, Edinburgh, Strathclyde and Newcastle in the UK, Charles
 University (Cz.), Dundalk Institute of Technology (Ir.), and the University of Alicante (Sp.). In
 addition, we have strengthened relationships with national and international agencies, including
 NHS Education Scotland, Institute for Research in Social Services (IRISS), Age Scotland,
 Alzheimer Europe, and Eurocarers.

 1.6 Achievement of Impact
 By focussing on major health challenges of the 21st Century, we have amplified the direct
 impact of our research locally, nationally and internationally. Our strategic priority areas for growth
 have been:

 (1) progressive and enduring conditions, and
 (2) acute and life threatening deteriorations.

 Our School strategic research priorities reflect the applied nature of our scholarship and the UWS
 commitment to optimising human health and well-being, protecting lives, and addressing
 health related inequalities that are important to our local communities and important to
 global health.

 Stakeholder partnerships and user involvement in our research are key elements within our
 impact strategy. Timely dissemination and creative public engagement are integral to our research
 approaches and impact amplification.

 1.7 Impact Case Studies and Reflections on Impact Approach
 Early identification of project impact targets with external stakeholders and research end users,
 yielded five viable candidate impact case studies (ICS), more than doubling ICS numbers
 achieved in REF2014.

 Impact amplification strategies included stakeholder and user involvement during project design,
 crafting of project specific impact pathways, diversity and creativity in public, and wider
 stakeholder engagement activity plans and connectivity with national policy and public health
 programmes.

 Dementia Research has benefited directly from our strategic partnership with the national leading
 dementia charity, Alzheimer Scotland, and alignment with the World Health Organisation (WHO)
 Global Dementia Action Plan which directly influenced Scotland’s national dementia strategy.
 Examples of new relationships proactively brokered to amplify impact of our dementia and
 employment research include those with Trade Unions and Age Scotland.

 Acanthamoeba keratitis (AK) research is a focal point for a vibrant network including
 Ophthalmologists, contact lens practitioners, industry and patients. Our discoveries advanced
 development of new prevention solutions and influence ongoing cases by directly testing clinical
 isolates for drug susceptibilities. Following an invited talk at the British Contact Lens Association
 in 2019, the Vice President and Chief Medical Officer of Bausch and Lomb visited UWS to discuss
 AK prevention, resulting in signing of a non-disclosure agreement; this enabled Bausch and Lomb
 to fast track AK prevention and treatment innovations.

 The Deteriorating Patient Theme aligned their research activities with the imperatives of the
 Scottish Government Patient Safety Programme to ensure research significance and reach within
 the Sepsis ICS. Strategic collaborations forged with the Scottish Ambulance Service were pivotal
 in accessing large data sets, and rigorous studies extending across paediatric cases to older
 populations maximised reach. With a growing reputation for ground breaking research in pre-
 hospital application of early warning, Rooney was appointed as the Scottish Government
 clinical advisor on Sepsis.

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Slightly earlier in the impact journey, the BREATH (Border and Regions Airways Training Hub)
 schools-targeted public engagement is advancing a preventative approach to an incurable and
 fatal lung disease particularly prevalent within regions of Scotland and Ireland around our campus
 constituencies. Networking with key regional stakeholders including clinical teams, councils,
 schools, charities and politicians, is delivering transformative change to public awareness of
 chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in target communities. Invited presentation on this
 research to the EU Parliament is indicative of external reach and relevance.

 1.8 Interdisciplinary Research
 Lockhart is Chair of the BREATH Management Board, governing international operations across
 the three partner institutions. Established in 2017 through the award of EUR7,700,000 by the
 Special EU Programmes Board, BREATH is an integrated, cross-border cluster of approximately
 35 researchers trained to investigate the causes, treatment and prevention of COPD. Scotland
 and Ireland share some of the world’s highest rates of COPD.

 The UWS Vice Principal’s GBP1,000,000 Research Support Fund was created (2018) to
 further promote cross-School interdisciplinary research. This was open to all staff and bid ranking
 was enhanced by ECR inclusion. Through this initiative 3 awards involving UoA3 submitted staff
 were made, investing GBP156,000 funds to establishing new programmatic research at UWS.
 Creating BREATH exemplified the success of this strategy, in establishing new interdisciplinary
 collaborations between environmental and biomedical scientists.

 Tolson led a European team of researchers (nurses, physicians, mental health practitioners,
 sociologists, educationalists) in an impactful programme focussed on understanding the
 experience of advanced dementia, delineating care needs and producing a description of best
 practice for advanced dementia specific palliation called Palliare. Funded through an Erasmus+
 Key Action2 Strategic Partnership award (GBP234,678), the impact of Palliare has extended
 across Europe, Mexico and India; including improved care, new quality grading systems and
 improved dementia education.

 Ritchie and Tolson, along with legal, business and management academics, have led
 pioneering research investigating dementia in the workplace. A follow on dissemination grant
 from Alzheimer Society funded a series of four information pamphlets for key stakeholders
 namely people with dementia, family, employers and work colleagues.

 1.9 Open Research Environment
 Where appropriate, datasets for relevant studies are submitted to the UK Data Archive to promote
 preservation and accessibility of scientific data. We are establishing an open research
 environment and, where possible, funding applications include costs for Gold Open Access
 publications (e.g., BREATH budget). All accepted manuscripts are archived in the institutional
 online repository (UWS research portal), to comply with the REF Open Access policy and
 promoted on the staff PURE profiles, research websites and social media platforms.

 In addition to openness across the academic and scientific communities, we proactively share
 our research findings in accessible formats to different audiences. Our dementia researchers for
 example work with the National Dementia Carers Action Network (family carers) and Scottish
 Dementia Working Group (people with dementia) to prepare accessible research reports in a
 variety of formats including podcasts, infographics, blogs and other ‘lite bites’. IBEHR researchers
 disseminate their data as peer-reviewed articles and presentations at both national and
 international conference. Target audiences include scientists & clinical teams in relevant
 biomedical fields e.g., European Respiratory Society.

 1.10 Research Integrity
 The UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity shapes our research governance approaches
 and practices to good research conduct and both scientific and ethical integrity. IBEHR/IHCR
 culture is of research integrity and responsible research practices including authorship and all

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 forms of research dissemination. For collaborative research clear partnership agreements set out
 respective responsibilities and commitments, and where appropriate we embrace the European
 Code of Conduct for Research Integrity.

 UWS expects all staff to demonstrate commitment to the UWS Truths (values) and is mindful
 of the difference between unintentional honest error and scientific misconduct, and the importance
 of respectful research mentorship.

 Adherence to the NMC Code of Practice and other professional body regulator codes for practice
 based researchers is mandatory. Furthermore, rights-based approaches underpin all of our
 practice based and practice learning research. Capacity legislation and other frameworks to
 protect vulnerable people are particularly relevant to our researchers working in dementia and
 mental health, and familiarity with relevant legislative provisions is part of our determination of
 ‘fitness to research’ and the broader aspects of project risk assessments.

 The HLS Ethics Committee provides a supportive framework for students and staff undertaking
 research with human participants. NHS and Social care partner research and development offices
 work cooperatively with us to provide advice on ethical approval systems (e.g., IRAS), data
 protection and data securities, providing access to relevant workshops and information session
 on changes. Staff undertaking research in forensic environments access training provided by The
 State Hospital and Scottish Prison Service relating to research and research integrity and risks
 in secure environments.

 Accredited biomedical science programmes in the School train staff and students in quality and
 competence standards expected in medical laboratories, as defined by ISO 15189.

 Animal-based research is governed by the University’s Animal Welfare and Ethical Review
 Board, compliant with Home Office regulations (including National Centre of 3Rs policy), is guided
 by engagement with the Laboratory Animal Science Association, and ultimately published in line
 with ARRIVE guidelines.

 Data storage processes and practice are GDPR compliant.

 1.11 Strategy: Next Five Years
 The primary goal of our research strategy for the next five years is to build upon the excellent
 progress made to date on our thematic research areas of strength, moving towards
 interdisciplinary research programmes that extend across biomedical sciences to applied practice
 based sciences.

 Application of our research in terms of practice and policy impact is paramount to UOA3 strategic
 directions, as are the implications of novel discoveries to the advancement of health, care and
 biomedical sciences in their potential for societal benefit. A grounding principle will be to progress
 research that addresses the UN SDGs; particularly focussed on Goal 3 (Health and wellbeing)
 and Goal 10 (Equality). Our future strategic research aims are contextualised and reprioritised
 within the current peri-COVID-19 period.

 Future strategic research priorities and actions are to:

       enhance our distinctive portfolio of UOA3 related research by building on our existing
        thematic areas of established and emerging strengths linked to nationally and globally
        identified priorities, mindful of integration and flow of research into our major teaching
        programmes and the strategic priorities of key external stakeholders and research funders.
       deploy our research excellence to address UN SDGs including COVID-19 recovery.

       refresh in line with the University 2025 Strategy research institutes and groupings to create
        integrated research teams (bench to practice) and provide career enhancing research


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        opportunities and researcher development to support the ambitions of ECRs, aspiring
        research leaders and exploring clinical academic careers.
       grow PGR student numbers alongside supervisory capacity and capability development.
       increase strategic partnerships with industry, policy makers, national health and care
        agencies, service providers, and NGOs to strengthen our research excellence with impact
        agenda.
       diversify our portfolio of research funders with further growth in research awards to
        strengthen our critical mass of research activity.
       embed an inclusive culture of research activity and innovation across all staff.

 2. People

 2.1 Staff Development Strategy
 Research capability building, ECR development and preparing future leaders is integral to our staff
 agenda and academic strategy. Our growth strategy for practice based researchers has enabled
 an impressive sevenfold increase (21 cf. 3 in REF2014), and also steady growth to be maintained
 in biomedical research active staff numbers supported by an expanding pool of ECRs.

 The School ensures that study leave arrangements are incorporated within individual staff
 workloads, equating to 21 days study leave, up to GBP1,000 to support consumable costs per
 year, in addition to GBP1,000 across the 3 years of a period of full time PhD study (pro-rata for
 part time) to support conferences.

 In addition to investment in staff to complete doctoral research degrees (approximately
 GBP235,000), a further GBP84,512 has been invested in staff training, recruitment and welfare.
 Unpaid sabbaticals are fully supported and the unit currently has one staff member on sabbatical
 leave.

 The University appraisal scheme, MyContribution, is completed annually with interim 6 month
 review. This incorporates objective setting for learning, teaching, research, enterprise and
 consultancy, staff development and conference attendance. Through MyContribution, we
 proactively support all staff to assess and value their current contribution and to proactively plan
 their personal and professional development specifically including research. Requests for internal
 and external development courses, and other CPD opportunities are managed through the Dean’s
 Executive Group, ensuring equity.

 2.2 Staffing and Recruitment
 The School’s staff recruitment strategy ensures equality, fairness and process transparency.
 This is in line with the UWS strategic position to achieve sustainability, growth and embedded
 researcher career pathways, with a particular focus on ECRs. Wherever possible we appoint staff
 that are Doctoral qualified; this presents a greater challenge within IHCR than IBEHR.
 The University promotions round is merit based, and not dependent upon a vacancy availability.
 In the last promotions round (2019/20) six UOA3 staff were promoted from Lecturer to either
 Senior Lecturer or Reader.

 New or replacement positions are filled with a range of staff from ECRs to Readers/ Professors to
 ensure a balanced staffing base to effectively advance research and learning and teaching
 excellence.
 2.3 Support for Early Career Researchers
 ECR researcher development opportunities are aligned with the UK Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework. Since 2017, a total of 15 HLS staff have completed the UWS Grant
 Accelerator Scheme, designed to improve grant application success.
 Eleven staff have completed the more intensive UWS Crucible, modelled on the successful
 external Scottish Crucible; instrumental in Papadopoulou securing her first major grant
 (GBP90,000 Burdett Trust) and Ritchie’s Alzheimer Society success of GBP256,695 (awarded
 March 2021- delayed by pandemic). We are currently supporting eight colleagues to complete the


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2020 UWS Crucible programme; this includes MacRae who recently secured GBP115,000 from
 the Dunhill Medical Trust.

 Two staff have completed UWS Propel, which has contributed to KTP success.

 The UWS Professoriate group play a crucial role in mentoring ECR development, and the UWS
 Research Staff Forum enables interdisciplinary networking and research collaborations.

 The School actively support the ECR conference and the University Learning, Teaching and
 Research Conference, and typically provides the highest number of active
 participants/presenters.

 Two mechanisms overseen by IHCR-IBEHR directly support researcher development,
 namely the Project Panel and the Authors Writing Group. The intention is to achieve balance
 between robust peer review and collegiate support, particularly for ECRs. The monthly Authors
 Writing Group provides a safe space for aspiring authors to receive critical peer review from the
 early stages of manuscript outline and target journal selection, through to submission.

 2.4 Academic-Industry Exchange
 The BREATH doctoral training is industry led through collaboration with Teva (presented full-
 day training sessions), Glaxo Smith & Kline (two day invited visit to Stevenage site), Chiesi
 (sponsored ENGAGE Plenary talks by external experts) and AstraZeneca (provision of lead
 compounds; Dr Hultin PhD co-supervision; invited seminar at UWS).

 BREATH has a Clinical Affiliate scheme to formalise collaborations with clinical colleagues; to
 date 7 clinical affiliates have been appointed through UWS. These include respiratory
 consultants and nurses from NHS Trusts (Ayr & Arran, Dumfries & Galloway; Greater Glasgow &
 Clyde) who provide clinical perspective and expertise, have presented at our BREATH seminar
 series and critically provide access to clinical samples driving COPD research. Moreover, three of
 the Clinical Affiliates delivered a summer BREATH webinar series of well-attended public sessions
 on COVID-19 Pneumonia. This includes Dr Bayes, recently awarded a CSO fellowship for her
 clinical research collaboratively linked to BREATH as an enabling platform. Furthermore,
 additional SEUPB Funding (EUR400,000) has now been awarded specifically to consolidate and
 sustain BREATH clinical partnerships, enabling access to patient tissue from lung resections to
 drive our programme of doctoral projects elucidating pathogenic mechanisms in COPD.

 In 2017 we hosted a visit from the Kraft Foundation to UWS, culminating in collaboratively
 establishing My Home Life Germany to progress culture change and research informed practice
 within nursing homes.

 The Alzheimer Scotland Dementia Nurse Consultant from NHS Ayrshire and Arran is seconded
 one day per week to work with ASCPP. A 0.5 FTE secondment of a Forensic Mental Health Nurse
 Consultant from The State Hospital has augmented our relationships with this special health
 board, and provided leverage for seedcorn funding critical to establishing innovative forensic
 mental health research.

 The Scottish Fire and Rescue Service, Police Scotland, the Scottish Ambulance Service,
 Alzheimer Scotland and UWS formed the ‘Dementia and Emergency Services Collaborative’
 in 2017, signing the Emergency Services 2025 Dementia Pledge to improve safety of people
 with dementia. UWS has supported the Fire Service to kit out a simulated flat drawing upon our
 DOMUS suite technologies, and provided dementia simulation based training within the Living
 Lab. Reciprocated fire and rescue simulations in their new dementia flat provided understanding
 and impetus to a new area of research ‘keeping a person with dementia safe’.

 2.5 Research and Impact Awards
 Current staff without a PhD are supported to gain a doctoral qualification and become active
 researchers. During the REF period some 45 academics have been supported to study part-

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 time (21 days study leave and fees paid). The University Reward and Incentive Schemes is
 designed to reward outstanding contributions. Professors submitted to UOA3 were acknowledged
 to have made outstanding contributions to research and research impact, each receiving an
 unconsolidated bonus.
 The Staff Appreciation and Reward Scheme (STARS) was created specifically to recognise
 outstanding staff contribution. This collegiate nomination scheme has to date seen 8 researchers
 nominated from this submission, 1 receiving ‘Excellence Award for Research & Enterprise’,
 another for ‘Outstanding Service to Colleagues’, and 2 further being awarded ‘Highly
 Commended’ for research leadership.

 Annual awards bestowed by our partner organisation Alzheimer Scotland have been received by
 several project teams and Brown has received a Life Time Achievement Award for contribution
 to dementia care.

 Staff are supported to complete HEA Fellowships, with Lewitt, Rankin and Tolson achieving
 Principal Fellow Status (PFHEA) for strategic leadership in higher education including research
 and research teaching leadership. All PGR students have the opportunity to pursue Associate
 Fellow Status.

 2.6 Research Students
 During this REF period there have been 61 verifiable doctoral completions associated with UOA3
 (31 submitted to REF4a). Currently there are 71 doctoral students being supervised by staff
 affiliated to the three Institutes, and another 15 students undertaking MRES/MPhil in the pipeline
 for doctoral studies. This group includes externally funded studentships (Abbeyfield Society,
 Erskine-Alzheimer Scotland, SEUPB, Carnegie Trust, Bangabandhu Overseas Scholarship
 (Bangladesh)).

 The School PGR Lead and Doctoral College Board Deputy Chair, Young, manages admissions
 to research degree programmes (MRES, MPhil, PhD) in liaison with Institute Directors and
 potential supervisors. Each Division has a named post graduate research coordinator to augment
 local processes and support student led initiatives including online Cafes and PGR Student Parlez.
 Above sector levels of PGR engagement with PRES (2017/18 83.4% response rate) reflects a
 thriving research learning community and culture.

 The UWS BREATH team is led by Lockhart, Litherland and Crilly, supported by 2 PDRA/RAs
 and 1 Research Technician, and built around a central doctoral training hub currently supervising
 7 UWS and 12 partner PhD students. Student recruitment, placements and progression are
 monitored and managed by a Scientific Supervisory Board which meets bi-annually, comprising
 all ten Principal Investigators across three partner institutions. All students are supervised jointly
 by cross-border supervisory teams, and gather to present at annual BREATH conferences, hosted
 by respective institutions, in addition to national and international conferences. Engagement in
 webinars across partners presented by experts in the field is facilitated via Teams platforms.
 Students are also funded to undergo placements in partner institutions and/or industrial
 collaborators, this has included an invited 2 day site visit at GSK main site in Stevenage (2019) –
 an opportunity extended to PhD students across HLS. All students actively participate in the
 BREATH Public Engagement and Outreach programme, all as STEM Ambassadors.

 The doctoral programme has enabled engagement of academic with relevant expertise across
 respective Schools as supervisors on doctoral projects: e.g. MacKenzie (airway smooth
 muscle), McLellan and Hursthouse (UOA7; air pollution), and Mackay (microbiology). This
 programme expansion was supported by 3 additional matching PhD studentships funded by the
 UWS Vice Principal GBP1,000,000 Funding Scheme.

 PGR students preparing dementia related thesis are part of the Alzheimer Scotland Centre for
 Policy and Practice at UWS, benefitting from full access to Alzheimer Scotland development
 opportunities and activities, and are active members of the more clinically focussed Alzheimer
 Scotland Centre at the University of Edinburgh PGR Journal Club. Opportunities to publish

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with supervisors are encouraged, for example two recent PhD graduates co-authored chapters
 in our most recent dementia text book (Jackson and Tolson, 2019). They are supported to develop
 connections with the Scottish Dementia Working Group (people with dementia) and the National
 Dementia Carers Action Group (family carers), and avail themselves of the resources and
 expertise of Alzheimer Scotland and free membership of the Scottish Dementia Research
 Consortium. Three of our PGR full time students, and one member of staff undertaking a
 dementia related doctorate, have secured SDRC COVID-19 mitigation awards worth
 approximately GBP2,000 each, to support changes required due to pandemic related impacts.
 Supervisor development involves a combination of School led and Doctoral College training.
 Monthly IHCR Supervisor Forums provide peer to peer support, sharing of best practice and
 reflection on supervisory dilemmas.

 Annual IHCR student led research conferences provide invaluable professional and research
 learning experiences. Similarly, IBEHR’s annual research engagement conferences
 encourages staff and PGR student interaction. In 2018, with the formation of HLS, integrated ECR
 led research symposiums were introduced.

 2.7 Equality and Diversity
 The School applies all University equality, diversity and inclusion strategies and processes to
 create a diverse and inclusive research culture. All researchers complete Unconscious Bias
 Training and relevant research integrity training. The Dean sits on the University Equality,
 Diversity & Inclusion Committee and ensures updates are cascaded quickly to all staff.
 Commitment to disability equality is reflected in our staff playing a key role in the development of
 a Disability Staff Network. Staff who have disabilities are supported through Occupational
 Health to access assistive technology and equipment to ensure that the research environment is
 inclusive.

 Two thirds of our 33 Cat A returned researchers are female, one third male. Staff on parental
 leave have optional ‘keeping in touch’ days, popular with those who have delegated research
 project leadership. The School also employs a replacement member of staff to back-fill long-term
 absences. We encourage staff returning from parental leave to apply for funds from the
 Returners Scheme to support the re-establishment of their research following a period of
 absence from the University. Several staff from within the School of HLS have been successful in
 obtaining up to GBP10,000 to support the re-establishment of research.

 The School supports all staff with flexible working arrangements where the business need can
 support this. Currently 18.6% of all academic staff work flexible hours (full time staff 21.6%).

 The University annual promotion round ensures all applications are viewed equally
 irrespective of status, mode of work, or protected characteristics. Of those returned in this
 submission, research accomplishments contributed to the promotion of six female and four male
 academics: two advancing to Reader and four to Professor, including one part-time female. Ten
 staff have completed the Aurora Women in Leadership Programme.

 We aspire to be a diverse and inclusive research community and 4 of the Cat A IBEHR staff are
 from ethnic minority communities. The age range of our Cat A staff extends from 37 to 68 years.
 Nineteen of our researchers are aged 50 years or older. Our future strategies include succession
 planning and growing the number of younger research active academics (less than 35 years
 old).

 The University in 19/20 developed criteria including equality and diversity that allows individuals
 to apply for promotion from Lecturer A to Lecturer B and encourage staff to seek promotion
 via this route, as well as any Lecturer B post advertised.

 School support for staff also includes meeting the requirements through study and staff
 development to move across roles and grades. An example of this is the movement of RAs into
 a Lecturer A role, the aim being they subsequently undertake Doctoral studies to enable their

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 application for further promotion. The same opportunities are available for technical staff,
 enabling them to study and develop their careers (including as academics).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Income and Funding Strategy
 Over the current REF period, the collective research grant awarded to the Unit staff exceeds
 GBP11,700,000, with approximately GBP6,000,000 administered through UWS since 2014. This
 represents a 95% uplift from REF2014, and equates to GBP354,000 total external income per
 staff FTE.
 IBEHR staff in UOA3 has been awarded approximately GBP7,600,000 in total external research
 income since 2014, of which GBP2,100,000 was administered through UWS. Sources of these
 funds include a diversity of prestigious research organisations. Key awards include from research
 charities such as Versus Arthritis, Carnegie Trust, Medical Research Scotland, Tenovus, etc.
 Support from industry includes AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline, Chiesi, and Teva UK.
 The focus on securing substantial programme research funding has proved successful in
 continuing to raise the level of biomedical research at UWS. A 5 year GBP1,200,000 Arthritis
 Research UK Programme award (2012-18) added further dimensions and value to the central
 multi-institutional programme by attracting new high calibre research staff and related satellite
 grant funding. The bar was further raised by the 5 year EUR7,700,000 SEUPB award (2017-
 2021) to create an international PhD training hub (BREATH) partnered with institutions in Ireland
 and Northern Ireland. The embedded BREATH Affiliate scheme has expanded the core research
 body (approximately 50) by attracting clinical and academics partners, part-supported by
 GBP141,000 awarded through the UWS Vice Principal GBP1,000,000 Funding Scheme,
 facilitating clinical research bids (Bayes, CSO awarded 2021).
 Building on REF2014 success, IBEHR embedded 8 previously appointed ECRs into respective
 research groups, their deployment accelerated by targeted IBEHR funding e.g., all were awarded
 UWS PhD studentships, allocated an IBEHR-ECR budget of GBP8,000 per year, and encouraged
 to apply for the IBEHR Open Bid and Matching funds (GBP60,000 per year) available competitively
 to all institute staff. Development at group level was also promoted by allocation of an annual
 operating budget (GBP2,000 per year per group). IBEHR (then School/UWS) funds also covered
 membership in relevant Institutes (SULSA, SAGES, MASTS). From 2018 (inclusive) the research
 institute budgets were pooled into the Vice Principal GBP1,000,000 Bidding Scheme.
 IHCR staff in UOA3 have been awarded GBP4,000,000 in total external research income since
 2014, of which GBP3,900,000 was administered through UWS.
 The IHCR strategy focussed on incrementally securing monies to establish project clusters with
 thematic purpose. Funding success with a combination of standard project applications, small
 research grants and incentive schemes, industry funding and partnerships funding for innovative
 practice and pilot initiatives, has purposefully positioned teams for more ambitious future
 applications. Key examples include Arts & Humanities Research Council, Chief Scientist Office,
 Erasmus+, Laerdal Foundation, Abbotts Point of Care, and charities including Alzheimer’s Society,
 Alzheimer Scotland, Burdett Foundation, Healthcare Improvement Scotland NHS Trust, Dunhill
 Medical Trust, and Life Changes Trust.

 3.2 Organisational Investment
 Dedicated research laboratories and facilities are specifically tailored, managed and maintained
 to support the breadth and integration of biomedical and nursing research across the School. This
 includes investment of almost GBP4,500,000 in science laboratories and research spaces at the
 award-winning New Lanarkshire Campus (2019 Guardian’s University Award for ‘Sustainable
 buildings that inspire’). This includes Research & Infection Control Lab (GBP374,727) and the
 Lanarkshire Living Lab suite including DOMUS costing GBP280,694.
 3.3 Support Staffing and Infrastructure
 The School has, over the course of a number of research funded projects, employed fixed term
 RTs, RAs, PDRAs and Admin staff to support research. These dedicated posts are appointed to
 meet the specific requirements of the research. As part of the rebalancing project undertaken by
 the University in 18/19 and 19/20, the School saw the introduction of Grade 5 technicians and a
 change in job descriptions for technicians at other grades to ensure research was better

                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supported, along with the appointment of research technicians. The benefit this has afforded is
 only beginning to be realised due to the current pandemic and the requirement to have ‘essential
 only’ work ongoing on campus. Longer term the technical team will significantly enhance research
 support. Additional support is provided by identified members of the School Admin staff pool, for
 example in arranging conference attendance, ordering of consumables, etc.

 3.4 Specialist Research Infrastructure for Impact
 Biomedical research facilities support IBEHR expertise in molecular, cellular and systems biology
 to dissect the pathogenic mechanisms driving inflammatory disease (arthritis and COPD). The
 infrastructure in place enables the arthritis programmes to extend from in vivo models, through
 molecular and cellular studies, to translational research, with access to tissues obtained from
 arthritis patients at arthroplasty, buffy coats (Blood Transfusion Service) and patient blood.
 Translational COPD research is similarly enabled by access to patient bronchial brush/wash and
 sputum samples from BREATH partnered bronchoscopy clinics (NHS Ayrshire & Arran; NHS
 Greater Glasgow & Clyde, NHS Dumfries & Galloway), as well as surgical resection tissue.
 Dedicated facilities have been tailored specifically for this research, recently expanded for and
 funded by the BREATH COPD programme and UWS. These include: A histology suite including
 automated cell stainer, upgraded (2017) to include Zeiss Axioscan Z.1 slide scanner, automated
 microtome (Thermo) and Leica cryostat; Expanded/upgraded tissue culture suite including oxygen
 level control; Molecular analysis enhanced (2017) by Thermo Varioskan Lux multimode plate
 reader; Home Office licensed animal facilities, upgraded (2017) with compact anaesthesia system;
 Breeding colonies of genetically modified (e.g. F2rl1-/-) mice supporting arthritis and COPD
 research (through new BREATH Project Licence); Flow cytometry suite; Extracellular matrix
 biochemical analysis system; in vivo and in vitro vascular assessment suites.
 The Lanarkshire Living Lab includes a generic studio styled flexible research and innovation
 environment, DOMUS and a specialist infection control suite. The generic Living Lab can be used
 as a creative space to engage the public in research and can be quickly transformed using pop
 up simulations such as our ‘pop up pub’ which has been used in football reminiscence research
 or as a sensory simulation zone or a dementia simulation experience. The award winning DOMUS
 Facility is a simulated domestic environment where we explore low and high tech aids for living
 and care, and experience design that both helps and hinders care in the family home. Adjacent to
 the DOMUS are the Acorn Primary Care Unit, hospital simulation units. These suites have
 continuous video recording facilities, viewing windows and remote audio and voice connections.
 All of these facilities are shared learning and research spaces.
 The Living Lab Infection Control Suite provides facilities to test and pilot infection control
 interventions in a safe setting away from healthcare. The lab is situated within state-of-the-art
 containment level 2 (CL2) facilities that allow for the safe trial of disinfectants and other
 interventions against common healthcare associated infection causing pathogens. The facilities
 are built to healthcare specification and include functional handwashing, bathing and toilet
 facilities. The facility is of particular importance to the testing of disinfectants and personal
 protective equipment such as face masks under in-use conditions. Current partners include
 commercial companies and the NHS. Current projects include face mask testing, biological spill
 kit testing and research into the spread and persistence of pathogens in the healthcare setting.
 Microbiology research is supported by level II containment facilities, a suite of new environmentally
 controlled rooms (Lanarkshire) and specialised technologies including High resolution Scanning
 Electron Microscopy, x-ray powder diffraction, and Spatial and Pattern Analysis Research
 laboratory. A dedicated Advanced Chemical Instrumentation Laboratory is used
 for bio/geoscience applications, underpinning relevant projects including the impact of metal air
 pollutants on human tissue.

 3.5 Cross-HEI Infrastructure Collaboration
 As an integral part of an established cross-institution collaboration with the University of Glasgow,
 CMS has assigned laboratory space and offices on University of Glasgow campus, and access to
 state-of-the-art core facilities in the Institute of Infection, Immunology and Inflammation (directed
 by Professor McInnes) which include IVIS in vivo imaging technology. This supports CMS staff
 with Visiting Professor (Lockhart) or Honorary Lecturer (Crilly, Litherland) status at the
 University of Glasgow. Through the Arthritis Research UK Programme consortium, CMS links with

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the bone group in Edinburgh University for comprehensive bone analyses (μCT and
 histomorphometry) and with Newcastle University for matrix biology research. The tripartite
 BREATH doctoral training hub includes student placements at partner institutions to utilise their
 specialised facilities. These include patch clamping and cell calcium imaging at Dundalk Institute
 of Technology, and a state-of-the-art imaging suite at Queen’s University Belfast. The latter is
 comprised of transmission electron microscopy and high throughput fluorescent imaging assays,
 to analyse cellular membrane processes and ion channel function respectively.
 Professors McInnes (Glasgow), Goodyear (Glasgow), Plevin (Strathclyde), Rowan
 (Newcastle), van ‘t Hof (Liverpool), Ferrell (Glasgow), Roberts (Strathclyde) and McGarvey
 (QUB) are all currently appointed as Visiting Professors at UWS (IBEHR). Professor Goodyear
 is co-head of the cross-institutional Centre for Musculoskeletal Science, and is co-supervisor on
 6 ongoing and 5 completed PhD projects, through his expertise in immunology, osteoclasts and B
 cells. Professor McGarvey also co-supervises 12 BREATH students, including 3 at UWS.

 3.6 In-kind Benefits
 Teva UK, Chiesi and GlaxoSmithKline each contributed training sessions to BREATH
 researchers, with sessions being opened to all interested researchers (staff and students) in the
 partner institutions. NHS Dumfries & Galloway funded the catering to support the BREATH
 Stakeholder Launch Event in Crichton campus, Dumfries (2017), which paved the way to
 establishing BREATH impactful engagement in Dumfries & Galloway. Dr Leif Hulten
 (AstraZeneca) also provides time, materials and supervisory support for arthritis and BREATH
 doctoral students.
 Alzheimer Scotland has donated state of the art digital enabling technology (IPD controlled ring
 video doorbell, Echo Show, Wiwe ECG Monitor, pressure sensor mats, Philip Hue smart bulbs
 and plugs) worth approximately GBP1,000 for our DOMUS facility at our Lanarkshire Campus.
 Eight simulation ageing suites, each worth GBP2,000 have been received through philanthropic
 donation.
 Alzheimer Scotland staff are periodically seconded to the Centre for specific research activities,
 and we are working to support their staff and volunteers to understand the foundations of
 research and what it means to become involved or to participate in research.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
 We proactively seek research collaborations (UK and international), embrace meaningful user
 involvement, target engagement with key networks and where opportunity exists establish new
 networks.
 Dementia Research benefits from a strategic partnership with Alzheimer Scotland, and
 executive leadership positions (Tolson and Ritchie) with the Scottish Dementia Research
 Consortium (SDRC), the Alzheimer Scotland Centre for Policy and Practice (ASCPP) at
 UWS, is underpinned by a strategic partnership agreement. SDRC is a Scotland wide network of
 researchers from all disciplines and institutes engaged in all forms of dementia research.

 Jack-Waugh, and Brown’s membership of the UK Higher Education Dementia Network
 (HEDN) is testimony to national standing in Learning for Practice Dementia Research.
 Sustained research connections with Erskine (veterans care) began with a small externally
 funded study and has progressed to an Erskine-Alzheimer Scotland funded PhD studentship.

 MacRae’s Visiting Research Scholarship with the University of Saskatchewan, Canada (2017
 onwards) has been pivotal to research collaborations funded by the Canadian Institute for
 Health Research. These include dementia workforce development projects with six Canadian
 Universities and a project developing an APP to support mental health of rural caregivers of
 persons with dementia in collaboration with RuralCARES in Canada.

 Memorandum of Understanding with Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) College
 of Nursing, India, developed from an initial Scottish Funding Council Global Research
 Challenge funded project exploring dementia related hardships in India, provides the

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 foundations for a continuing collaborative research and research mentoring relationship.

 A British Society of Gerontology funded ‘Dementia & Multi-Species Caring’ workshop in May
 2019 led to The Wellcome Trust award (GBP30,000) to establish the Multi-species Dementia
 Network in 2019.
 Our Global Mental Health Researchers (led by Lusher) are collaborating with the Mental Health
 and Wellness (MEHEWE) and University of Washington. This important work investigating the
 psychological impact of COVID-19 is being undertaken with research teams from USA, UK,
 Ethiopia, Nigeria and Egypt, our involvement serving testimony to UWS commitment to global
 benefit.
 A strategic partnership with The State Hospital (Carstairs) and Forensic Network has propelled
 development of forensic Mental Health Research. Deteriorating Patient Research was pivotal
 to the work of the National Sepsis Collaborative and Acute Adult Programme of the Scottish
 Government’s Scottish Patient Safety Programme.
 Rankin is part of an international research cooperative to advance rural midwifery practice
 collaboration with New Zealand midwifery leaders. This collaboration includes Robert Gordon
 University (UK), Auckland University of Technology, and Ara Institute of Canterbury (NZ),
 and undertakes international comparisons of midwifery practice.
 IBEHR has an established highly integrated GBP1,200,000 Arthritis Research UK programme of
 research with centres of expertise across four other UK universities (Glasgow, Strathclyde,
 Newcastle, Liverpool). This includes UWS partnership with two recipients of the prestigious
 EULAR Centres of Excellence award, and supports movement of staff and PGR students
 between institutes for research and training. This consortium comprehensively researches
 osteoarthritis at molecular, cellular and system levels, spanning the pathogenesis of osteoarthritis
 from its inception, through protease-mediated signaling via a key receptor (PAR2), to joint
 pathology.
 The multi-prize winning BREATH consortium is forged from a formal UWS partnership with
 Dundalk Institute of Technology, and Queen’s University Belfast, and consists of a joint
 Management Board, combined annual BREATH conferences together with co-hosted webinar
 series and formal placements for PhD students with partner laboratories. The partnership further
 includes Professor Goodyear (University of Glasgow) and Dr Elaine Emmerson (University of
 Edinburgh).

 Scottish Universities Life Alliance (SULSA) was created to link eleven universities to advance
 the national research and innovation in the life science sector. UWS has been a member since
 2018 and early successes include GBP13,898 SULSA funds to support 3 ECR projects. Dr
 Menzies is a Scientific Theme Advisor for SULSA.
 Infection control researchers including Mackay collaborate with NHS and Scottish Ambulance
 Service to promote patient and staff safety through near patient surfaces, uniform and ambulance
 decontamination studies.

 4.2 Engagement with Users, Beneficiaries and Communities
 The BREATH public engagement programme exemplifies community partnership approaches
 within Dumfries & Galloway, and Ayrshire & Arran, where COPD-related hospital admission is
 amongst the highest in the UK. Since 2018 UWS has educated over 5,000 young people across
 these regions through links with the respective councils, and key teaching/RAiSE contacts. This
 has raised public awareness regarding COPD in recognised hotspots of the disease, and
 educated children on lung health and the dangers of smoking. Our programme included active
 patient and MSP involvement in engagement sessions across approximately 50 schools, been
 featured in national (Scotsman, 2017; Sunday Post, 2020) and regional news outlets (e.g.,
 Galloway News, Free Press, Dumfries & Galloway Standard, Carrick Gazette; 2017-20),
 broadcasted on radio (Westsound Radio, 2018), been subject of two international case studies
 published by the SEUPB, and also featured in their YOUR EU e-zines (2018, 2019). This has been
 supported by a social media campaign via our Twitter (15-20,000 impressions per month),
 Facebook, and Instagram platforms, as well as a dedicated BREATH webpage (breath-copd.org).
 Lockhart also gave an invited presentation on the BREATH plan to combat COPD in Scotland,


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Ireland and Northern Ireland as part of an SEUPB Showcase at EU Parliament in Brussels (Dec
 2017).
 Since 2019, we have been exploring with members of the Scottish Dementia Working Group
 (SDWG; people with dementia) what would be useful in terms of connecting with the research
 community. We are working with SDWG to refresh a publication setting out their preferred
 empowering approach to research involvement to address ‘research fatigue’ arising from
 excessive requests for tokenistic involvement.

 In 2019 we established a Research Group with the National Dementia Carers Action Network
 (family carers), and as co-researchers we have agreed priority topics and submitted a funding
 application for a studentship.

 Highlights of dementia research media coverage include: Hungarian National TV Documentary
 (2014- with Tolson), BBC Wales Primetime Documentary Beti and David (2017 with Brown
 and Jack-Waugh), BBC Radio features include Scotland Drive Time (Ritchie - dementia
 employment, 2015), Janice Forsythe Culture Show (2016 - Watchman) – Grace Notes project,
 a Series of five Dementia Experience broadcasts (2017) presenters Kaye Adams, John Beattie
 and people with dementia and Czech National Radio featured our advanced dementia research
 (2015). Newspaper coverage has included features in Sunday Herald, The Herald, Evening
 Times, Prague Daily Monitor (2015), Diario Información (2016) (regional press Spain) and The
 Times India (2019), plus various short reports in local newspapers and charity news.

 We have proactively shared our research through the Glasgow Science Festival (2017-2020,
 inclusive), typically attended by approximately 350 visitors, the Prince’s Trust Dumfries House
 STEM Day (2019), Super Science Festival (2019) and the Prestwick Aerospace STEM Week
 (2017). In 2019 the dementia care team collaborated with the newer Biggar Science Festival,
 with sessions designed to show case the impact of research on the lives of rural communities.

 4.3 Contribution to Economy and Society
 Our acute deterioration research team led by Rooney (Cat B), collaborating with the Scottish
 Ambulance Service and pre-hospital practitioners, has validated early warning scores for use in
 adults and children in pre-hospital settings. Research impact has contributed to a 21%
 reduction in sepsis mortality and a 31% reduction in cardiac arrests in Scotland.
 Development of an innovative APP has supported uptake in practice.
 We have redeployed our infection expertise to understand SARS-CoV2 transmission, growing
 a surrogate animal coronavirus with similar properties to SARS-CoV2. Assays have been
 developed for disinfectants testing against the surrogate SARS-CoV2 as well as disinfectant
 efficacy in healthcare, community settings and dentistry. We are first to pioneer a novel virus
 capture from the environment assay that is allowing the study of how virus particles are released
 from human breath and can dissipate in the environment.
 Our decontamination studies confirmed the effectiveness of current laundering equipment, saving
 the Scottish Ambulance Service approximately GBP700,000. Together with industry, we
 established protocols to test their methods of fogging and spraying disinfectant to effectively kill
 pathogens such as MRSA, extended-spectrum β-lactamase (ESBL)-producing Klebsiella
 pneumoniae (ESBLK) and carbapenemase-producing Enterobacterales (CPE): pathogens
 considered of “critical” or “high” priority by WHO.
 BREATH research has been highlighted in three Scottish Parliament debates, showcased at
 EU Parliament (2017) and our public engagement featured as the subject of SEUPB case studies.
 Relationship building with district councils and regional parliamentarians (Harper, Carson,
 Whitford) has been key to this outreach, with patient ambassadors offering particular engagement
 value. BREATH academics (Lockhart, Crilly, Litherland) are invited members of the Scottish
 Parliament Cross Party on Lung Health, and presented the BREATH mission at the September
 2020 CPG meeting. The BREATH doctoral training is industry led through collaboration with
 relevant pharmaceutical and biomedical companies, providing future recruitment opportunities for
 the students, and additional funding routes.

 Our advanced dementia research informed the Fair Care Commission (chaired by McLeish -

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 former First Minister). The resulting major Alzheimer Scotland campaign has secured support
 from over 15,000 members of the public, and has been debated by Scottish Parliament. In
 January 2021, a Scottish Government policy recommendation called for a 7.5% increase in
 Nursing and Free Personal Care Allowance, the first increase since introduction in 2002 and a
 step towards fairer dementia care.

 Being Home research led by Brown’s team, which included chartered surveyor and building
 design specialists, investigated housing for people with dementia, and was cited as a core driver
 for the 2019 Scottish Housing and Dementia Framework Guidelines published by the
 Chartered Institute of Housing (cih.org). Being Home was the focus of a Parliamentary Reception
 presented at the cross-party Dementia Group and subsequently sent by the Cross Party Chair to
 all Local Authorities in Scotland as a catalyst for change. Building upon Being Home, we
 secured a Dementia and Housing Abbeyfield Studentship (GBP61,000) and are currently
 researching the contribution of supportive housing.

 Our dementia education research has been instrumental in repeat commissions to deliver the
 Scottish Government flagship Dementia Champions workforce development programme.
 Dementia Champions is recognised as one of the UK’s 100 best breakthroughs by MadeAtUni
 for its significant impact on people’s everyday lives. To date, working in partnership with NHS
 Education Scotland, Scottish Social Services Council and Alzheimer Scotland, we have
 graduated 1,000 Dementia Champions, preparing them to lead practice-based changes
 throughout the NHS in Scotland.

 With NHS Ayrshire and Arran and Alzheimer Scotland, we have collaboratively piloted an
 innovative Carers’ Academy which is focused on supporting fundamentals of dementia care
 skills development. This award winning model has been described by family carers ‘as a life line’,
 ‘the difference between just getting by and knowing we can continue’. To mitigate COVID-19
 related disruptions, we are moving this to the Alzheimer Scotland Virtual Resource Centre and in
 the longer term plan to offer as a blended model and extend provision across Scotland.

 4.4 Discipline, Interdisciplinary and International Priorities
 Our strategic research focus on 21st Century major public health challenges of progressive
 and enduring conditions (COPD, dementia, mental health) and life threatening deteriorations
 (including sepsis), aligns with both global health priorities and national priorities. The
 multifactorial nature of these conditions and impact upon the lives of individuals, their families and
 society, addresses two of the UN SDGs. Through our research we support healthy lives and
 promote well-being for all at all ages (goal 3), and reduce inequality within and among
 countries (goal 10).
 The vision of the WHO Special Initiative for Mental Health (2019-2023) is that all people achieve
 the highest standard of mental health and well-being. We are contributing directly to this imperative
 through studies on global mental health, patient and carer stress and forensic mental health.
 Dementia studies flow from the WHO Global Dementia Action Plan (2017-2023) with its focus
 of high quality care and positive living. Specifically, we have both influenced and responded to the
 strategic imperatives set out in Scotland’s three national Dementia Strategies and rights-
 based charter of care. Learning for practice research transcends several areas and ensures state
 of the art approaches, and importantly in the peri-pandemic period, trauma informed approaches
 (Taylor).
 Through expertise and focus on degenerative conditions and rapid deteriorations we are well
 placed to respond and deliver a challenge driven research agenda which features the “leave no
 one behind message” of the six SDG Transformations, coupled with the detailed provisions of
 the Scottish, UK and international COVID-19 Recovery and Resilience Action Plans. Hidden
 impact reports demonstrate faster dementia deteriorations, escalations of family carer distress,
 substantial decline in mental health across all ages and an urgent need to understand best
 approaches in reducing COVID-19 transmission.
 UWS is justifiably proud that its advanced dementia research was selected by the Royal College
 of Nursing UK to demonstrate in the RCN Fellows Project how nurse led research is
 addressing the UN SDGs here in the UK and internationally (Tolson, 2020). A commission for

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 six papers by Nursing Older People Journal focussed on state-of-the-art advanced dementia
 practice (Brown & Tolson, et. al., 2020), is further testimony to discipline standing and influence.
 Through two small SFC Global Reach Research awards we have collaboratively undertaken
 research to protect and support breast feeding in developing countries. This has culminated in
 establishing the International Board of Lactation Consultants Examiners (IBLCE) (Chaired
 by Rankin), an inaugural interdisciplinary research initiative to protect and promote
 breastfeeding/infant nutrition in developing, low-income countries and in natural/emergency
 disaster situations.
 BREATH forms a key element of the institution’s ongoing prioritisation of international research by
 the creation of a novel doctoral training hub; this includes Ireland, receives EU funding,
 disseminates findings across Europe (YOUR EU Ezine) and engages with EU policy and
 parliament. International collaboration includes Dr Leif Hultin from AstraZeneca (Sweden), who
 actively co-supervises PhD students in both our BREATH and arthritis programmes, and has
 visited UWS to deliver an IBEHR seminar.

 4.5 Wider Influence and Contributions
 During the census period 62 invited talks/keynotes have been presented at significant
 international conferences. These include the Global Alzheimer Research and Care Summit
 (Tolson, Lisbon 2017), and Europe’s largest long term care sector conference funded by the
 ‘Together we change the World Foundation’ (Tolson, Poland 2019; 1,000 delegates from 31
 countries), and demonstrate international and long term care sector interest. The focus on
 advanced dementia was heralded by Polish industry organisers as a new and important direction
 for the long term care sector in Europe and a practice focussed call to action paper, based on our
 research, was circulated to a further 2,000 European care providers in three languages (English,
 Polish, Russian) https://mkod2019.syskonf.pl/?lang=en.
 Since 2017, MacRae has been a Visiting Research Scholar with the University of
 Saskatchewan, Canada. An invited Keynote, Public Lecture and Seminar Series (MacRae,
 2018/2019), funded through Canadian Institute for Health Research Awards, focussed on the
 potential for dementia policy transfer from Scotland and lessons from our research to Canada.
 International external research related leadership contributions include Chairing the
 International Board of Lactation Consultant Examiners Research Committee (Rankin),
 membership of the Global School Nurse Consortium (a WHO Reference Group) since 2019
 (Astbury) and invited membership of Alzheimer Europe Scientific Committee (Tolson 2014-
 current).
 National research leadership contribution include membership of the GCHC Research Fund
 Steering Committee (Rankin), Scottish Neurological Seedcorn Fund Panel (Tolson 2019-
 current), Executive Member of the Scottish Dementia Informatics Board (Tolson 2018-current)
 and Executive Committee Scottish Dementia Research Consortium (Tolson, Lead for Living with
 Dementia Research Theme; Ritchie, Lead for Dementia ECR).
 Other external research committee contributions include West of Scotland Research Ethics
 Committee 1 (Fulford 2016-2018), research advisor to Isle of Man Hospice (MacRae), Member
 of the Alzheimer Scotland Research Advisory Committee (Tolson 2013-current) and UWS
 representative for the Physiological Society (Lockhart 2015-current).
 Brown and Tolson are active members of the Cross Party Group on Dementia, and have made
 invitational presentations about advanced dementia, housing and dementia research and the
 Being Home Report. Lockhart is a member of the Cross Party Group on Lung Health and
 showcased BREATH COPD research at the EU Parliament. Tolson is a on the Register of
 Experts for the Scottish Parliament Information Centre (SPICe), and has reported on
 Dementia COVID-19 Harms.
 Eleven of our researchers serve as grant reviewers for twenty funders including MRC, BBSRC,
 ESRC, NIHR, Chief Scientist Office, UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships, Society for the Study
 of Human Biology, Dunhill Medical Trust, The Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland and
 Chilean Antarctic Institute.

 Contributions to academic journals include, 2 editorial board memberships, social media
 editor, and 18 staff reviewing for 73 peer review journals including Scientific Reports, PLoS
 ONE, Nature Review Rheumatology, Journal of the American Medical Directors Association, Age

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Ageing, Ageing and Society, Nurse Education Today, International Journal of Nursing Studies
 and Journal of Advanced Nursing.
 Research excellence has been recognised by submitted staff receiving the Lifetime
 Achievement Scotland’s Dementia Award (Brown, 2016), Royal Society of Biology Researcher
 Outreach & Engagement Award (Menzies, 2017), Mental Health Nursing Forum Scotland
 Innovations in Education Award (McCaig, 2015, Watchman and Tolson, 2016), University of
 Aberdeen Certificate of Excellence Award for Research & Enterprise (Rateb, 2019), and being
 finalists for Guardian Scotswoman of the Year (Tolson, 2016) and Palliare Best International
 Project (Tolson, et. al., 2016).
 BREATH gained early recognition for success in blending complementary research expertise to
 create a training hub (10 academics, 8 PDRAs, 19 PhD students), named the Asthma and COPD
 Project of the Year at the 2018 Northern Ireland Healthcare Awards, and received the QUB Vice
 Chancellor 2020 Award for Excellence in cross-partner integrated research culture.

 In 2020, UWS was awarded an Advanced HE Collaborative Award for Teaching Excellence
 (CATE) 2020 for its ground breaking research based ‘Class in a Bag’ (Tolson et al). This a portable
 intergenerational education resource used by student nurses to teach school children about
 dementia. More than 10,000 school children have learned from over 2,400 nursing students about
 dementia and have pledged to be dementia positive citizens.
 Tolson is a supervisor on the doctoral panels for two MAHE PhD students and is currently
 collaborating on a study to explore the impact of COVID-19 on doctoral students registered
 with MAHE (India).




                                                                                            Page 17
