Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Institution: University of Liverpool



 Unit of Assessment: 20 Social Work and Social Policy



        1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 The Department of Sociology, Social Policy and Criminology is one of two departments within
 the School of Law and Social Justice, housed in a £25 million state-of-the-art building,
 opened in 2019. Our staff have a demonstrable and long-term commitment to social justice
 and since 2014 we have taken advantage of growth in student numbers to increase our annual
 budget for internal research ten-fold in order to increase our research capacity and achievements.
 We have appointed 16 new researchers in key and emerging areas, quadrupled staffing in the
 Research Support Office, increased external research funding (particularly from Research
 Councils), grown our PGR community, and established PGR/ECR training platforms across the
 region. Our research activity is co-ordinated and organised through two sizeable, well-established
 Research Clusters: The International Criminological Research Unit (ICRU) and the Publics
 and Practices Research Unit (PPRU).


   i.      Unit context and structure


 ICRU areas of particular strength include: critical criminology, corporate and state crime, and
 neoliberalism (Hart, Naegler, Whyte); gender, crime, and criminal justice (Evans, Measham,
 Walklate); historical and longitudinal studies of offending and punishment (Alker, Godfrey,
 Roscoe); juvenile/youth crime (Goldson); the criminology of war, radicalisation and counter-
 terrorism (McGarry, Mythen, Walklate); policing (Baker, Turner); and critical drug studies
 (Coomber, Lightowlers, Measham). The ICRU National Consultative Group (comprising leading
 academics and personnel from the criminal justice policy and practice communities in the UK)
 enables us to engage with and impact upon stakeholders and user beneficiaries, for example the
 Howard League for Penal Reform, the Magistrates Association, UK police force); and the
 International Reference Group (comprising some of the world’s leading academic criminologists)
 provides a route to international research collaborations.


 Led from our Department (Morrin, Paton), but with a membership that stretches across the
 Management School and the Departments of Architecture, Geography and Planning, and Public

                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Health, and a large number of PGRs who are supervised by staff within the cluster, PPRU is
 orientated toward critical research on contemporary state forms and their entanglements with
 capitalist economies. Topics of inquiry include: governmental form; environmental destruction and
 risk (Mythen, Tepe-Belfrage, Whyte); medical technologies; age and life-course (Pickard,
 Vanhoutte, Vitellone); poverty, education and exclusion (Frost, Morrin); innovative
 methodologies (Brooker, Heng, Kirton, Mair); and gentrification, urban cultural forms and
 organisations (Campbell, Jones, Paton).


 ICRU and PPRU provide pump-priming funding for pilot or small research projects, organise joint
 events and regular work-in-progress seminars to highlight our research. They both have research
 budgets    to   provide   co-ordination   for   dissemination    and    impact,   to   ensure    that
 interdisciplinary/cross-disciplinary research flourishes. Both are public facing and policy engaged,
 as demonstrated by the array of events, activities and initiatives hosted (see s.3.4). The pinnacle
 of these is the well-established Eleanor Rathbone Lecture Series which draws large audiences
 (policy-makers, academics, general public) to discuss topical matters of significant public interest
 (in particular, lectures by the Executive Director of Advocacy and Engagement at the Refugee
 Council and Professor the Baroness Lister of Burtersett addressed issues of gender,
 marginalisation and austerity and drew large public and policy audiences).


 Although all staff belong to at least one of the Research Clusters, many also belong to the intra-
 and inter-faculty research centres. Campbell worked with colleagues in the Institute of Cultural
 Capital (a strategic collaboration in the city between the University of Liverpool and Liverpool John
 Moores University) to develop policy that demonstrably benefited the culture and life of the
 Liverpool City region and its residents. Mythen and Walklate sit on the Management Board and
 supervise doctoral students for the Institute of Risk and Uncertainty, a national centre of
 excellence funded primarily by ESRC/EPSRC awards, which hosts the only centre for doctoral
 training in the UK focusing on the management risk and uncertainty in complex environments and
 natural and constructed systems. Alker is Director of the Centre for Digital Humanities and
 Social Sciences, which brings together researchers across the University to explore the
 development and deployment of digital technologies and tools, their uses, and social impacts.
 Pickard and Godfrey collaborate with colleagues from across the arts, humanities, and social
 sciences to enhance understanding of medical, (bio)scientific and technical practice in the
 Centre for Humanities and Social Science of Health, Medicine and Technology. Godfrey works
 with leading consultants in tropical diseases at the Royal Liverpool Hospital, the Liverpool
 School of Tropical Medicine, and the University of Liverpool’s Institute of Infection and Global


                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Health to explore longitudinal global trends in transmission of disease, and collaborates with
 consultant paediatricians at Alder Hey Children’s Hospital on children’s safeguarding issues.
 Lightowlers is part of the Liverpool Centre for Alcohol Research alongside colleagues in the
 University’s Institute of Translational Medicine. We have hosted public lectures and research
 workshops and collaborated on externally funded research projects with the Heseltine Institute
 for Public Policy, Practice and Place which brings together expertise from across the University,
 with civic leaders, policymakers and the diverse range of stakeholders to improve policy making
 for the future welfare of cities and city regions. Our membership of and participation in cross-
 university research centres and institutes helps to foster a porous inter-disciplinary research
 environment.


  ii.       Research strategy


 We have continued to develop and grow since 2008, with REF 2014 being an important milestone.
 The School formed from a merger of the Department of Sociology, Social Policy and Criminology,
 and the Department of Law in 2010 and its creation facilitated the growth of research synergies,
 but organisational changes took time to bed in. Therefore, REF 2014 was an appropriate point to
 assess both our strengths and ambitions, and also to devise strategies to take advantage of new
 opportunities for cross-disciplinary collaborations. Between 2014 and 2021 our objective has been
 to maintain the Department as a centre of excellence for published research (70% of our outputs
 were rated 3/4* in 2014), impact (100% rated at 3/4* in 2014), to support and invest in existing
 areas of strength (historical and theoretical criminology and critical social policy), and to
 create a sustainable research culture which benefits staff, our partners, and the policy and practice
 communities with whom we engage.


 Healthy and sustained student growth, and a ten-fold increase in internal investment has enabled
 us to significantly extend and widen our research base and to secure a substantial raft of external
 research funding. Raised levels of investment, infrastructure and resource that came with the
 creation and subsequent expansion of the School of Law and Social Justice allowed us to go
 beyond the strategies outlined in 2014. Over this REF period we have developed, supported, and
 operationalised strategies that have:


        •   Supported existing areas of strength
        •   Widened the research base



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



         •   Underpinned a recruitment strategy across career levels to attract staff to strategic
             priority areas of digital social sciences, visual and quantitative sociology
         •   Developed Social Sciences capacity within the University and across the region
         •   Made a difference with respect to impact
         •   Internationalised our research to address global challenges


 We have been able to achieve our strategic aims because the School research budget has grown
 tenfold from £77k in 2014 to £777k in 2020. A critical mass of new researchers were appointed to
 further bolster a significant concentration of ECR, MCR and Professors, and take us in different
 theoretical directions using innovative methodologies (digital social sciences, visual and
 quantitative sociology) to address global challenges and pressing policy-needs (health and
 societal inequalities). Between 2016 and 2020 we made 3 ECR appointments (Alker, Brooker,
 Naegler); 9 MCR appointments (Baker, Doebler, Hart, Heng, Inckle, Lightowlers, Paton,
 Sirryeh, Tepe-Belfrage); we also appointed 9 PDRAs (three from internal investment - Khoury,
 Massoumi, Patrick - and 5 from external funding - Morrin, Price, Richardson, Roscoe,
 Williams). The appointment of established professors (Coomber from Griffith University, Head of
 Department 2018-2020) and Measham (from Durham University in 2019) further added research
 excellence and strengthened leadership in the Department.


 The influx of new staff facilitated a step-change in our research capacity, and facilitated an
 ambitious strategy that capitalised on the enriched research environment. Our strategies are
 refreshed by Departmental Research Leads Whyte, Pickard (2014-2020), now Lightowlers and
 Jones) and our progress is monitored by the School Research and Impact Committee (Coomber,
 Goldson, Godfrey, Jones, Lightowlers, Pickard) and by the Faculty Research and Impact
 Committee (that was chaired by Godfrey as Associate Pro-Vice Chancellor for Research and
 Impact, 2013-17).


  iii.       Developing social science capacity


 In 2015/16 Godfrey developed, in consutlation with research leaders, a series of Faculty
 Research Themes (Children and Childhood, Slavery and Unfree Labour, Sustainable and
 Resilient Cities, Transforming Conflict, Digital Humanities and Social Sciences, Heritage). Digital
 and Heritage were subsequently established as University Research Themes. These themes are
 flourishing and members of the Department continue to contribute to, and benefit from, the
 leadership and administrative structures that support them, and also the internal and external

                                                                                                     Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 investment that flow through them. Indeed, we took a leading role, with Alker as Director of the
 Centre for Digital Humanities and Social Sciences and Godfrey a leading member of the
 Modern Slavery and Human Rights Policy and Evidence Centre. In 2017, our experience and
 expertise in developing successful growth strategies was utilised when Godfrey carried out a
 review of social science capacity and launched the University Social Science Strategy. Between
 2020 and 2026 (coterminous with the University’s Strategic Plan) we will embed/reinforce the
 policies and strategies which benefit researchers within this Department to sustain research of the
 highest calibre and develop further capacity in the social sciences across the University of
 Liverpool.


 Our energy and commitment to social policy contributes significantly to social science capacity in
 the region. In 2011 the ESRC North West Doctoral Training Centre (NWDTC) was awarded to
 the University of Liverpool (as lead institution) and the Universities of Manchester and Lancaster;
 recommissioned as the North West Social Science Doctoral Training Partnership
 (NWSSDTP) in 2016 (with Keele University now added to the consortium) with Mythen as
 Director, Goldson as Liverpool Institutional Lead, and Jones as Northwest Leader of the
 Sociology pathway; Kirton leads our regular participation in the ESRC Festival of Social Science;
 Brooker is institutional lead for the Social Studies of Science, Technology and Medicine pathway;
 and McGarry for the Criminology, Social Policy and Social Work pathway.


 The NWSSDTP is the largest in the UK and has become a research platform for generating future
 generations of social policy leaders. Since its inception the NWDTC/NWSSDTP has provided
 large cohorts of doctoral students with high-quality, flexible postgraduate training (as has the
 AHRC North West Consortium Doctoral Training Partnership (NWCDTP) with whom we are
 also partners). Training for the NWSSDTP is delivered through Methods North West (MNW), an
 advanced research training network of which engage@liverpool (led by Mair) is a major
 component. This training platform is seen by the ESRC as one of the most distinctive and
 successful elements of social science training in the UK. Engage@liverpool provides specialist
 and high-level training for PGR/ECR across the region, including masterclasses, workshops,
 lectures with invited international experts. It reflects three distinctive strands in the research
 tradition at the University of Liverpool: engagement with the major moral, political and
 philosophical ideas and questions of the day; engagement with, and contribution to,
 methodological and intellectual innovation; and engagement with people through research –
 locally, regionally, nationally and internationally. In addition to bringing local benefits to the staff in
 the Department. the leadership provided by Liverpool in this area benefits the research


                                                                                                     Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 environment across the North West of England. This training portfolio will be enhanced by the
 University’s new partnership with the National Centre for Research Methods (NCRM), locally led
 by Mair.


  iv.   Impact strategy


 Rather than developing pockets of impact, impact creation is seen as a foundational activity across
 the whole Department. Impact is constant and on-going, embedded in our practices and
 developed through internal investment and collaboration with partners and stakeholders. The
 School Impact Steering Group regularly receives details of potential and developing impact case
 studies referred to it by Departmental Impact Lead (Jones, McGarry), accompanied by action
 plans for development and requests for support. Between 2014 and 2020, eleven members of the
 Department developed viable impact case studies. For REF 2021, we selected ICS themed
 around workplace safety regulation, criminological policy, and criminal justice practice, reflecting
 our established areas of strength. The impact currently being developed in the areas of
 ‘inequalities’, ‘poverty’, and ‘exclusion’ by staff in partnership with local, national and international
 bodies reflect emerging areas of strength engendered by the appointment of staff since 2014.


  v.     Internationalisation strategy


 Our internationalisation strategy, first developed in 2012, encourage a deep, critical awareness of
 the legacies of colonialism in political, social and cultural terms. The strategy aims to nurture and
 sustain international collaborative links to enable us to respond to complex societal and global
 challenges that are beyond the capacity of one researcher, one research team, one institution, or
 one cultural and jurisdictional context; to maximise the exchange and development of new
 methods and intelligence with researchers, civil society organisations, policy makers and
 practitioners across the globe; and to bring lessons from international scholars to bear on research
 questions, approaches and solutions in a UK context. We have utilised internal investment
 (notably a School International pump-priming scheme with an annual budget of £20k) to create
 larger and more intensive collaborations. For example, our relationship with the University of
 Georgia (UGA), which began in 2014, evolved to encompass the establishment of summer
 schools for criminology undergraduates in 2016. In 2018 a collaboration between UGA and
 Liverpool led by Godfrey on race and imprisonment, funded by the National Endowment for the
 Humanities, then led ultimately to a large scale (£3.4m) research collaboration which involves



                                                                                                   Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 colleagues across the social sciences at Liverpool and UGA, led by Balch in the Department of
 Politics.


 Following the Adrian Smith review of international funding in 2019, we again refreshed our
 Internationalisation Strategy (led by Tepe-Belfrage). Between 2021 and 2026 our strategy is to
 deepen and broaden our international activities to address GCRF priorities and form partnerships
 with partners in Overseas Development Assistance (ODA) listed countries with greater use of
 digital outreach. We established an International Visiting Fellowship for staff (pump-primed by the
 School with up to £20k annually) and an International Visiting Graduate Student programme which
 allows PhD students enrolled in research-based programmes outside the UK to undertake 3
 months of their studies at Liverpool (for example, Walklate’s supervision of a PGR from the
 University of Porto). Doctoral students from XI’an Jiaotong University, our partner university in
 China, also annually visit Liverpool for three months as part of their PhD programme, and external
 investment by the China Scholarship Council facilitated a year-long placement for academics from
 Sichuan University. Whyte secured funding to enable participation of scholars from ODA nations
 at international conferences and a large number of grant awards have international co-
 investigators or are funded by international bodies. Whyte’s 'Exploring Corporate Denial of
 Corporate Human Rights' project was funded by La Trobe and Victoria Universities; Godfrey,
 Goldson, Walklate have each held several awards from the Australian Research Council;
 Whyte’s ‘Revisiting Crimes of the Powerful’ and Godfrey’s project on historical inequalities were
 both funded by the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada.


  vi.    COVID-19


 COVID-19 was a significant test for the strategies and structures we had designed and
 implemented. Some adjustments to maintain research and impact during the lockdown period and
 immediate aftermath were relatively straightforward. For example, the University funded
 extensions to PGR to ensure that their research was supported and to reduce anxieties, and
 supervision sessions, ethics committees, and other administrative functions were moved online.
 To ensure that all staff felt supported during the disruptive period between March and October
 2020, we initiated a contact scheme, with each member of senior staff contacting a small number
 of colleagues twice-weekly to provide more intensive support. Recognising the fast-moving
 research landscape in 2020, we used our existing structures to respond flexibly to new conditions
 and opportunities and capitalise on the collective strengths of the Department to reach out to new
 research and impact partners. Walklate and Godfrey used an UKRI grant to improve police and

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 court responses to domestic abuse during the crisis. We timetabled a set of Departmental and
 School Research and Impact Committee meetings for 2020/21 to be chaired by Jones and
 Lightowlers as incoming Research Leads. Through consultation with the staff base, we are already
 beginning to produce a set of strategies for the post-pandemic period and up to 2026 (the date of
 University’s strategic horizon).




       2. People


  i.      Staffing profile


 There is a consistent core to the staff base (with 55% of the UoA appointed to the Department
 before 2013, and 31% before 2008). However, in taking advantage of thriving student enrolment,
 we have recruited 16 staff between 2014 and 2020, with 12 outgoing staff over the same period,
 (2 of whom retired, 5 moving to other departments, or to leadership positions within the University).
 This has taken our total staff group in the UoA from 16 staff returned in REF2014 to 29 (28 FTE)
 for this return. The staff group comprises 8 professors, 14 senior lecturers, 7 lecturers, in addition
 to a Leverhulme Fellow and 2 PDRAs. The mix of experienced and ECR staff is designed to lead
 to a vibrant and sustainable future for the Department.


 Our staffing strategies and processes have been guided by our attempts to improve levels of
 diversity. During the REF period, 46% of applicants and 48% of shortlisted applicants for academic
 positions were women and 58% of appointments identified as female. Overall, the proportion of
 female staff increased from 47% to 57% between 2014 and 2020. We have appointed both BAME
 and staff with disabilities in this REF period, but we are committed to increasing and embedding
 greater levels of diversity (through appointments to both the staff base and the PGR community)
 beyond 2021.


 We have striven to create a research environment which treats all staff equally and with respect
 (recognised by the School Athena SWAN Bronze Award in 2018, led by Pickard, with an
 application for Athena SWAN Silver Award planned for 2023). All of our policies are in line with
 the revised 2019 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. Locally, we
 disseminate an online handbook for staff and PGR students which sets out gender equality
 policies and clarifies procedures - from recruitment practices to promotion pathways - and support
 available including family friendly policies, flexible working, and mentorship.

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




    ii.     Embedding equality and diversity


 We have a commitment to consulting and working collectively to improve the research
 environment. In 2016, the School implemented an action plan following the triennial Staff Survey,
 a University-wide consultation on staff satisfaction. In 2017 the Staff Culture Survey was launched,
 and the results discussed in Departmental staff meetings. At the same time, the PGR Culture
 Survey, designed by PGRs in the Department, was launched during the annual PGR conference.
 Following this the PGR Director (Pickard) began a wider process of consultation with PGRs and
 PDRAs on gender-related and wider inclusion/diversity issues. In order to update policy and to
 broaden debate and discussion of equality and diversity it is a standing item on SMT meeting
 agendas; at least one meeting of the School Board each year focuses on gender equality; and
 colleagues with a research interest in gender equality presented their research at the Faculty-wide
 Expert Forum seminars.


 In 2019 the School Equality and Diversity Committee was created (with Hart as Deputy
 Director). In 2020 the School carried out a Gender Audit which allowed us to review current
 practices. Between 2020 and 2026 we intend to deliver a raft of policies to further enhance an
 equal and sustainable research environment. Specifically, we will continue to support female ECR
 to access leadership courses and mentorship, and to access research support mechanisms such
 as writing sessions. We ensure that female ECRs and PGRs are given the best opportunity to
 produce 4* research and annually monitor the number of research articles being published to
 ensure that a proportionate balance of female/male staff are being supported. We encourage and
 support female staff to attend and contribute to Impact Training; and ensure that mid-career and
 senior-career female staff are supported to take up research leadership positions (following open
 advertisement in October 2020, Pickard was appointed Head of Department; Paton became PGR
 Lead; and Lightowlers was appointed co-Research Lead following completion of the Future
 Leaders Course).


 In order that our principles of equality and fairness were carried through to the REF selection
 process, we followed the University’s Code of Practice. All staff are invited to submit outputs
 for internal review on a rolling basis in line with the institutional Code of Practice. The rolling
 reading process, along with other aspects of the REF, was overseen by a departmental REF
 Advisory Group (RAG) comprising the Head of Department (Coomber); previous REF panel

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 members (Walklate and Goldson); School Strategic Research Lead (Godfrey); NWSSDTP
 Director (Mythen); chaired by Pickard as Departmental Research Lead. The reading group itself
 comprised of senior staff (SLs and above) who volunteered and who had the necessary
 experience (Coomber, Godfrey, Goldson, Jones, Lightowlers, Mair, McGarry, Mythen, Paton,
 Pickard, Tepe-Belfrage, Vitellone, Walklate and Whyte) – 8 men, 6 women. Outputs were read
 and graded independently by two members of staff, with one being an expert in the subject as far
 as was possible. Readers carried out independent reviews and met to agree the final grade. Where
 agreement was not forthcoming, a third or external reader provide another view, and a sample of
 outputs were sent to two external experts for calibration. In line with our Athena SWAN
 commitments, we undertook four periodic gender audits of output submissions and gradings. In
 2019 we adopted a School-wide process for evaluating and selecting impact case studies,
 monitored by the School Impact Steering Group (SISG) (chaired by Godfrey). Impact reviewers
 are selected in light of their expertise, including REF experience, broad social science, legal and
 policy expertise, and, as with the rolling reading programme, were required to undertake
 unconscious bias training and AdvanceHE equality and diversity training. In order to ensure equity
 and transparency in the impact case study shortlisting process, the SISG decided on a new
 shortlisting process in February 2019. All staff routinely record examples of their impact online,
 and all staff were considered for inclusion as potential ICS authors by the Departmental Impact
 Lead (Jones). The longlisted case studies were sent to the SISG who ranked the cases (later
 confirmed by the School REF Committee). The ICS selected for REF 2021 were only a sample
 of some of the important and significant impact activities carried out by staff across the
 Department.


    iii.    Supporting research careers


 We have recruited excellent staff, and are committed to nurturing research careers from
 PGR to Professor ensuring that mentoring, training, and dissemination of experience and
 expertise is embedded into our practices. Establishing a high level of resource for research and
 impact activities, relevant research skills-training, and individual research mentorship at all career
 stages is central and has been core to our ambition of achieving a supportive research
 environment. Leadership was strengthened by internal promotions (Mythen, Whyte and Pickard
 were all appointed as Professors within the census period; seven lecturers were promoted to
 Senior Lecturer) and retention until retirement (Coomber, Goldson).




                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Since 2014, the NWDTC/NWSSDTP funded 208 studentships across the partners (with Liverpool
 securing 29%, including 22 awarded to this Department). Due to successes in attracting large-
 scale UKRI funding, we have added another 7 funded studentships to our postgraduate
 community since 2014 together with 4 UKRI postdoctoral fellowships. In terms of internal pump-
 priming, since 2014, the School has also funded an additional 7 doctoral students through our
 Graduate Teaching Assistant scheme, and a further two PGR funded by our Chinese partner
 university, Xian Jiaotong Liverpool University. The 82 doctoral students added a significant uplift
 to both of our research clusters and helped to stimulate research across the whole Department
 (presenting papers at Work-in-Progress sessions and the annual PGR conferences, shadowing
 and assisting researchers, winning funding to bring together postgraduate students from the UK
 in workshops and contributing in many other ways).


 We are strongly committed to building and sustaining our large PGR community who have
 contributed so much towards our research environment. To repay their dynamism, staff have been
 determined to provide bespoke, tailored and focused mentorship and support to every
 postgraduate researcher. Following an induction designed to welcome each student to the
 processes involved in carrying out doctoral-level research, there is a comprehensive review of
 immediate training needs. We tailor the training expertise held in the department to our PGR
 community. Supervisors provide subject-specific training relevant to the research being pursued
 (theoretical and ethical issues, managing fieldwork, and developing an appropriate methodology)
 to ensure that every PGR researcher is fully equipped to begin their studies. As they continue
 through their PGR journey, we provide dedicated sessions on ‘moving-on from doctoral study’;
 ‘establishing a research trajectory’; and ‘managing an academic career’ (designed mainly but not
 exclusively for female PDRAs by Godfrey) as well as the research training and methods platforms,
 engage@liverpool and Methods North West and training workshops on, for example, visual
 sociology (Heng), the digital social sciences (Alker, Kirton, Brooker), getting published in high-
 impact journals (delivered by Walklate as Editor-in-Chief of the British Journal of Criminology),
 masterclasses on ‘Using Freedom of Information as a Research Method (Whyte); provide training
 on longitudinal data analysis and historical data (Lightowlers, Godfrey); and many ECRs take
 advantage of the School-funded writing retreats organised by Paton.


 In terms of governance, the School PGR Director works with the Department PGR Director
 (McGarry, Paton) and DTP Institutional Lead (Goldson) to oversee all aspects of the academic
 process through the School’s PGR Committee. The School PGR Director oversees the six-
 monthly reporting of progress. Independent Progress Assessment Panels (comprised of two


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 independent staff members) assess each student’s progress and future training needs on an
 annual basis. They review examples of the doctoral student’s written work, evaluate whether
 additional training should be accessed and whether the relationship between doctoral student and
 supervisor is still optimal. A report from each panel is then reviewed by the Department PGR
 Director, and action is taken if required. Students who are found to need additional support are
 provided with a route to relevant training, and a further panel is convened to ensure that the
 doctorate is ‘back on track’. Both students and supervisors benefit from the support that this
 rigorous process provides, and we have increased our PhD completions from 34 reported in REF
 2014 to 38 in this REF period (and because of the significant investment in PGR since 2018
 completion numbers will rise throughout 2021 to 2026).


 Our investment in boosting employability, promoting access to bespoke careers support, and
 enhanced professional development have also resulted in a number of our PGRs co-authoring
 publications with supervisors (McGowan, Hopkins), gaining external research funding with
 supervisors (Barlow and Walklate), and being appointed to PDRA positions (Khoury, Moretta,
 Price, Singer, Vaughn, Williams). In 2019 Vaughn completed a PhD co-funded by the John
 Lennon Scholarship and the Institute of Risk and Uncertainty. Her sociological, qualitative,
 multi-phase inquiry into how practitioners imagine and operationalise the safeguarding 'risk-work'
 for identifying and working with ‘childhood radicalisation’ (PREVENT) was supervised by Godfrey
 and Mair. She then co-authored the UK Collaborative on Development Research (UKCDR)
 'Safeguarding in International Development Research Guidance' (2020) and was appointed in
 January 2020 as Derby Fellow for the Research Theme of 'Slavery & Unfree Labour'. Introduced
 in 2018, the Derby Fellowships are designed to recruit and nurture a new generation of outstanding
 and ambitious academic leaders. Our second Derby Fellow, Vanhoutte, bolstered our health
 sociology research strand, collaborating with Pickard who spearheads this area. Vaughn is now
 developing exciting, innovative interdisciplinary research and knowledge production with
 colleagues in the Politics Department and is part of the H2020 Counter Radicalisation and Social
 Inclusion project alongside Walklate and Mythen. In 2019 Moretta completed a NWDTC CASE
 Studentship in collaboration with the Institute of Employment Rights (supervised by Whyte). His
 unique inquiry into UK compliance with international labour standards led to two high profile
 publications widely distributed and cited by the main UK trade unions (‘Access to Workplace
 Justice’, 2016) and ‘Benchmarking Freedom of Association’, 2020). Following completion of his
 PhD, a postdoctoral fellowship funded by the Faculty and HEIF supported the empirical work for
 a third publication co-authored with Whyte. This work also provided the evidence base to support
 his successful application for an ESRC Postdoctoral Fellowship based in the Department


                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 mentored by Whyte. In 2018, Morrin was appointed as ESRC postdoctoral fellow. Her research
 examined 'entrepreneurial investments' in the Academies Programme in England, considering
 elite actors in the academies programme (venture philanthropists, sponsorship and policy
 interventions), and the everyday negations of those engaged in, with, and against academies. Still
 closely working with Paton, in 2019 Morrin joined the Department as Lecturer. Roscoe, having
 already held research posts as a Caird-Sackler Fellow at the National Maritime Museum (2019)
 and Pearsall Fellow at the Institute of Historical Research (2017/18), was first appointed ESRC
 Fellow, and then secured a three-year Leverhulme Fellowship in 2019. Her work on Black-British,
 Afro-Caribbean, Chinese and East-Asian convicts has attracted a number of prestigious awards
 including the Hakluyt Society Research Grant (2018), Tomlin Bequest from the Society for Nautical
 Research (2018), National Archives of Australia/Australian Historical Association Postgraduate
 Scholarship (2016) and the Australian Bicentennial Scholarship from the Menzies Centre of
 Australian Studies (2014). Her collaborative work, with Godfrey, now places carceral labour at the
 centre of globalisation, industrialisation and technological modernisation, linking these historic
 structures to our continuing reliance on unfree labour within the global supply chain. Our PGRs
 and PDRAs continue their academic career in lectureships at Liverpool and elsewhere (Alker,
 Barlow, Briggs, Ellis, Khan, Hopkins, Griffiths, McGowan, Massoumi, Morrin, Patrick,
 Pötschulat, Robinson, Watkins). Becoming an ECR in our Department means having support
 and mentorship to ensure that PGR/PDRAs make a successful transition to becoming established
 researchers.


    iv.     Leadership and succession


 In order to sustain leadership and carry the Department through to the next phase of its
 development, we have grown a staff base with vast potential to become tomorrow’s research
 leaders. We will continue to appoint successful academics at all levels who have the potential
 or a demonstrable track-record of high-quality publications, grant acquisition, and/or who are
 making a significant impact with their research. The appointment of 16 staff over the REF period
 has provided a fertile research base from which we expect future leaders to emerge.


 As a consistent thread through our REF submission, research mentoring takes place at all levels,
 and is seen as essential to the process of helping all staff to achieve their full potential.
 ECRs have reduced workloads for the first three years and are provided with a mentor upon
 appointment. Informal mentoring was replaced in 2020 with a formal mentoring scheme for all
 staff. In addition to the annual PDR, all staff benefit from regular Research 1-1 meetings to discuss

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 research opportunities and to identify resources which might be needed to ensure that stretching
 research targets are achievable and achieved.


 Allied to research mentorship is the support for preparation to leadership positions. Staff are
 encouraged to attend Faculty and University-wide career development courses, including
 Springboard, a personal and career planning course for women targeted at ECR, and the Aurora
 programme, which supports female MCRs. MCRs have access to the Faculty’s Future Research
 Leaders course. Campbell completed the course in 2016/7, before securing the AHRC-funded
 ‘Art of Reconciliation’ project led by Professor Shirlow in the Institute for Irish Studies at the
 University of Liverpool. Research excellence and leadership is rewarded through internal
 promotions, and this helps to maintain a healthy succession policy.


 Lastly, our professorial staff contribute significantly to research structures and initiatives across
 the Faculty and across the University. Their contribution is no less in their leadership of research
 in the Department. Professors are expected to lead major research initiatives, act as research
 mentors, secure external investment to build capacity, provide one-to-one guidance on developing
 and extending research careers, make a major contribution to our REF preparations, and further
 extend our international profile. We are confident that we have a sustainable future for the
 Department based on a strong record of good appointments, mentorship and training, and a high
 level of support for research which extends from PGR to Professor.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


    i.      Income

 Research income totalled just under £2.4m between 2014 and 2020. Our grant income has risen
 because of investment and capacity-raising strategies put in place in 2014. We have seen
 particular success in growing income from Research Councils, from £114,443 for the year 2013-
 14, to £274,333 for the year 2019-20, an increase of 140%. During this period, our staff group has
 been involved in 14 successful awards, from a total of 38 applications to research councils, a
 success rate of approximately 37%. We recognise the benefits of external funding in improving
 the research environment (providing time and resource for research and impact creation,
 appointing PDRAs, providing publications and creating new rafts of ICS).


 The £1.7m AHRC-funded ‘Digital Panopticon’ which operated between 2014 and 2018 (led by
 Godfrey, with partners at the Universities of Oxford, Sheffield, Sussex and Tasmania), comprised

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 over twenty academics, six PDRAs and eight co-supervised PGRs. The £600k ESRC-funded
 “Access to Justice” project (Walklate and Godfrey) comprised a team of six academics and two
 PDRAs. Both of these projects have developed research teams within ICRU which continue to
 produce high-quality publications, and which increase our capacity to apply for further large-scale
 funding (and not only large-scale funding – we operate a mixed economy which encourages
 applications to support meaningful locally-focused research i.e. Frost’s Leverhulme funded ‘Work,
 Authority and Poverty: Charles Booth and Liverpool’; Lightowlers’ Evaluation of the Merseyside
 Violence Reduction Partnership; Turner’s four-year Catalyst project on effective policing). We also
 collaborate with colleagues across the Faculty on a range of projects (Campbell works with
 colleagues in Irish Studies on three AHRC funded projects; Godfrey works with colleagues from
 the Department of Modern Languages on an AHRC-funded project on imprisonment and also co-
 supervises three ESRC PGRs with colleagues in the Department of History).


 We are fortunate to be able to build upon the strong foundation of a dedicated and enthusiastic
 staff base who willingly share their expertise on planning research applications and running
 externally-funded projects. However, we are conscious of the need to build on our capacity for
 securing external funding in an increasingly competitive funding environment. With this in mind, in
 2020 we launched an intensive annual programme of ‘Support and Training for Advancing
 Funded Research’. Led by Godfrey, with Stalford (Department of Law), this new School initiative
 aims to support colleagues to develop concrete research funding proposals. It is designed to
 ensure that a small cohort of staff take an early draft of a grant application through to submission,
 supported by tailored small-group workshops by experienced researchers with one-to-one weekly
 meetings and writing sessions with experienced mentors (Walklate, Whyte, Measham). This
 programme will complement support and training already in place at Departmental, Faculty and
 University level, but with a specific focus on bringing research funding ideas to fruition over the
 course of the year in order to build sustainable, ambitious and proactive research teams, units and
 centres for the future.


    ii.     Infrastructure


 Pump priming
 Research applications take time to write, and impact takes time to develop; sometimes pilot
 projects are necessary; and inevitably some applications are unsuccessful, and will need time to
 recycle or be re-evaluated. In order to accommodate this, staff are eligible to apply for up to one
 year’s research leave after six semesters in order to write publications, develop large research

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 bids and/or impact activities. The majority of staff take one semester’s research leave after
 completing nine semesters (23 different staff have had a total of 37 semesters of research leave
 since 2014). We have also introduced rapid response funding and grant support for impactful,
 policy relevant research which responds to topical challenges: for example Coomber’s work on
 County Lines; Mair’s work with Columbia Law School’s Centre for Human Rights on armed drones
 and the use of explosive weapons in populated areas; Walklate and Godfrey’s UKRI-funded
 COVID-19 project on domestic violence with English and Welsh police forces, the Crown
 Prosecution Service, and Her Majesty’s Courts and Tribunal Service; Mythen and Walklate’s
 research on radicalisation and inclusion; Whyte’s research on corruption in the global north.
 Alongside this responsive approach (which provides support at short-notice, as is often required
 with external research bid applications and with impact creation), are structures such as the new
 School level internship fund (£10,000 per year) which provides short-term research and
 administrative support for the preparation of bids.


 Every member of the Department is encouraged (by mentors and by staff tasked with developing
 research and impact) to consider how their research contributes to the field, can engage public
 and policy audiences, or can impact directly on practice. We then identify and locate the relevant
 local structures and mechanisms that can support impact creation. In order to resource research
 and impact activities, in 2014 we introduced the School Research and Impact Development Fund
 (RDF), a major investment which has distributed £257k funding across the School between 2014
 and 2020). This is in addition to the personal research allowance of £1,300 which can be spent on
 attending conferences, travel, smaller research projects, and pump-priming pilot projects that can
 lead on to larger grants, all at the discretion of each staff member. This funding has facilitated
 high quality publications (Hart’s edited collection on austerity, welfare and punishment resulted
 from an RDF-funded conference; Pickard was funded to produce an edited book in 2019 with
 leading international scholars in gender, health and illness); and to build networks (RDF
 supported the building of a network involving academia and the public in education research
 leading to publications by Morrin in 2020) and to pump-prime pilot research that led to larger
 research bids (e.g. Vitellone’s large Wellcome Trust application).


 In order to support impact activities, the School provides £2,500 annually to ICRU and PPRU to
 co-organize meetings and workshops with local, regional and national third-sector, public sector
 NGOs and governmental partners; to host events; and to attend events nationally and
 internationally to research-user communities. The School has also provided PDRA to support
 impact (£38k) and the capturing of evidence of impact (a time-consuming activity for academic


                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 staff who very much value this additional support). Lastly, staff have taken advantage of the
 extensive University Knowledge Exchange Vouchers which for example, funded McGarry to work
 with Royal Wootton Bassett to archive letters and documents about the repatriation of military
 personnel. This was welcomed by the local authority, and impacted significantly on the relatives
 of soldiers.


 Support for researchers
 The financial and human resources that support research and impact provide the vital
 infrastructure that takes on much of the administrative burden that comes with being a PI, leaving
 academics to pursue cutting-edge research and impact in their fields. During this REF period, the
 School Research Office was separated from the Finance and Research Office and expanded to
 include a dedicated team of six professional services staff that now support research. This
 significant investment has paid off by improving the support that researchers now receive by:
 horizon-scanning for grant opportunities to ensure that PGR, ECR and established staff are all
 appraised of opportunities for research funding and support; processing PGR applications and
 monitoring, gathering data to support periodic reviews (e.g. gender audit work); administer
 committee meetings; and managing the research grant application process. Post-Award support
 is provided by four dedicated Research Office staff who monitor budgets, co-ordinate a vast array
 of research marketing and events, online and offline, and routinely showcase research and impact
 highlights on our digital platforms.


 All bids are peer reviewed by at least one colleague in addition to the Director of Research, prior
 to being signed off by the HoD. This process has substantially improved both the quality of
 applications (and has translated into higher success rates), and the experience of designing and
 submitting grants for the applicants themselves. Peer review is also provided by the Institutional
 ESRC Peer Review College (established in 2016), to which staff in this UoA (Godfrey, Mythen)
 contribute.


 We ensure that all bids meet the highest ethical standards. Lightowlers and Measham, who sit
 on the University Ethics Committee, provide detailed feedback on ethics for research bids at the
 development stage. The vast majority of applications for ethical approval (save for those deemed
 ‘high risk’) are submitted according to stringent criteria through an online portal, (developed and
 supplied by external specialists, Infonetica), and scrutinized at School level. This is part of a
 process which ensures that our research activities are ethical, legal, and meet professional
 frameworks. With much of our work concerned with young people, criminalised and marginal


                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 groups in society, and the socially and economically disadvantaged, ethical concerns are
 prominent at each point in the research process, from inception to dissemination.


 iii. Physical Facilities and Digital Architecture

 The University’s investment in a new £25 million School of Law and Justice building (completed
 in 2019) brought together all colleagues in the School for the first time. The School Research
 Office is housed in the same building, as are research seminar rooms, workshop and break out
 room facilities, and dedicated large event space for dissemination of research. The formal (and
 also the incidental corridor) conversations are producing new research synergies bridging law,
 criminology, and criminal justice across the School (particularly around the treatment and lack of
 legal protection for asylum seekers, refugees, and migrant children). We also have dedicated
 physical research space provided as a result of our collaborations with Alder Hey Children’s
 Hospital. A Research Office on the hospital site provides an opportunity for researchers to carry
 out projects on children’s rights and safeguarding whilst undergoing medical treatment and (and
 to discuss potential new research projects with medical practitioners). Staff are supported to
 design research projects (i.e. Godfrey and Stalford working with consultant paediatricians on
 safeguarding processes) by the Hugh Greenwood Research Fund (an £800,000 gift for Children’s
 health research projects held between the University of Liverpool and Alder Hey Children’s NHS
 Foundation Trust).


 The changes brought about by COVID-19 revealed that we are able to continue and indeed
 improve some of our research processes using remote methods. The excellent online
 infrastructure at Liverpool has facilitated multiple research, dissemination, and impact activities to
 continue (and, actually, to flourish). Our staff regularly communicate with national media via local
 BBC offices in Liverpool and via the Faculty media suite. The School Digital Communications
 Officer has supported a constant and rapid updating of digital dissemination; and we have been
 able to step-up our provision of webinars, online lectures, and virtual workshops, for example
 Alker’s online Institute of Historical Research's “Digital History” seminar live-streamed on
 YouTube. In 2021 we will re-evaluate our digital strategy – moving even more research events
 online, creating virtual research environments, enhancing digital research methodologies, and,
 indeed, creating a better online base for internationalising our research.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society




                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



    i.      Collaboration and contribution to the research base


 Research carried out within ICRU and PPRU is highly published and prize-winning. In 2015, Heng
 was awarded the International Visual Sociology Association Prosser Award for Outstanding Visual
 Methodologies. In 2016, Walklate was awarded the prize for the best paper published in the Asian
 Journal of Criminology. In 2017 Heng won The Sociological Review Annual Award for Outstanding
 Research. In the same year Mair collaborated with honorary research fellow Elizabeth Minor, co-
 recipient of the 2017 Nobel Peace Prize for her work with Article 36 on the abolition of nuclear
 weapons; Goldson was awarded the ‘Juvenile Justice Without Borders’ International Award for his
 research on incarcerated children; and Mair and Jones were awarded the John Stewart Prize for
 Best Paper in Local Government Studies. In 2018, Campbell’s article was the ‘most impactful’ in
 Sociology; Roscoe was awarded the British Commission for Maritime History’s Boydell and
 Brewer Prize for the best doctoral thesis; Whyte’s book The Violence of Austerity was shortlisted
 for the Bread and Roses Award; and the British Society of Criminology awarded Walklate the
 ‘Women, Crime and Criminal Justice Network Prize’ for her article in Criminology & Criminal
 Justice. In 2019, Paton won the Sociological Review Annual Award for Outstanding Research;
 and Coomber was awarded the Paolo Pertica Award to recognize innovation and outstanding
 contributions to public health interventions within the criminal justice context. In 2020, Walklate’s
 article published in Critical Criminology was selected as the Best Journal Article by the American
 Society of Criminology's Division on Critical Criminology and Social Justice. Following a public
 lecture at the Institute for Advanced Studies in Australia and an interview on Late Night Live,
 Godfrey’s discussion of imprisonment, past and present, was profiled by the Australian
 Broadcasting Corporation as one of five “Big Ideas” of 2020.


    ii.     Contribution to national and international research bodies


 As part of our outward-facing commitment to the field, our staff make a major contribution to
 national and international research bodies. Coomber, Godfrey, Goldson, and Walklate are
 Academicians of Social Science. Pickard is Associate Editor of Ageing and Society. Jones is an
 editor of The Sociological Review. Heng is co-chair of the BSA Visual Sociology study group; and
 Paton is co-chair of the BSA Cities study group. Our staff contribute to the Peer Review Colleges
 of UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship, British Council, AHRC, ESRC, Medical Research Council,
 Australian Research Council, Canadian Social Science Research Council, Russian International
 Affairs Council, Russian Science Foundation, and the Israel Science Foundation. Goldson Chairs
 the European Society of Criminology Thematic Working Group on Juvenile Justice and is a

                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 member of the UN Advisory Board; Mythen leads the International Sociological Association Risk
 and Uncertainty Network; Godfrey is founder member of The Australian and New Zealand Society
 of Criminology History section; and also founding member of the Historical Section of the American
 Society of Criminology. Whyte is Chair of the Law and Society Association sponsored
 International Research Collaborative (IRC) ‘State of Exception, Law and Economy’. Goldson and
 Walklate previously sat on the Social Policy and Social Work, and the Sociology REF panels.
 Godfrey was a member of the AHRC Advisory Board (2014-17). Walklate is President of the
 British Society of Criminology and was Editor-in-Chief of the British Journal of Criminology
 (2014-2019). Goldson was appointed to the Expert Advisory Board supporting the UN Global
 Study on Children Deprived of Liberty in 2018; Godfrey was a member of the Magistrates
 Association Adult Courts Committee (2014-17). Whyte has been a member of the Executive
 Committee of the Institute of Employment Rights (since 2014) and is a member of the Advisory
 Board of Corporate Watch; both organisations are integrated into the research and research
 training work in the Department. Mair and Whyte sit on the Methods North West Executive
 Committee. Mair is Senior Research Fellow in the new UK Research Methods Training Centre
 and is Academic Lead for the North West New Forms of Data Methods Exchange. Together these
 roles afford the Department a strategic position in regional capacity building and future
 development of PGR training across the North-West of England. Since 2014 we have initiated
 additional relationships with global partners (for example the Renkei Partnership in Japan through
 Pickard and Vaughn). Walklate, Coomber and Goldson are adjunct professors at Queensland
 University of Technology; Walklate is conjoint Professor of Criminology at Monash and Research
 Associate at West Virginia University; Godfrey is Alexander Fellow at the University of Western
 Australia, Russell Ward Fellow at the University of New England, and Honorary Professor at the
 Universities of Tasmania and Xi’an Jiaotong Liverpool; Whyte is Honorary Professor at Turku
 University and Visiting Research Fellow at Oñati.


    iii.    Contribution to policy-making


 Our collaborations have strengthened and nurtured our research and provided much greater
 opportunities to contribute to social policy across the region, nationally, and globally. We engage
 a range of impact partners and public/policy audiences. The ESRC funded “Access to Justice”
 project team (Godfrey, Walklate) work with NGO/government partners (the National Archives,
 Howard League for Penal Reform, the Office of the Commissioner for Victims, the National
 Policing Lead for Victims and Witnesses, Citizens Advice, Ministry of Justice-funded
 Witness Service, and Victim Support). Mythen, Walklate and McGarry have a long-standing

                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 relationship with the Foundation for Peace (and have ESRC CASE studentships with the
 Foundation). Whyte has a long-association with Corporate Watch; Godfrey is Inaugural
 Research Fellow, and Goldson a member of the Research Advisory Board, of the Howard
 League for Penal Reform). Pickard has a long-standing relationship with the British Geriatrics
 Society, the Irish Geriatrics Society and the American Geriatics Society in exploring health
 and illness in old age, particularly in terms of ‘frailty’. We are inaugural members of N8 Policing
 Partnership (with Walklate, Turner, Godfrey, Coomber, Measham acting as Institutional Leads)
 which was established to enable and foster research collaborations that help to address the
 problems of policing in the 21st century, achieve international excellence in policing research, and
 deliver at a scale with real impact. The partnership has funded a number of projects, led by
 Liverpool and N8 partners, that have contributed to the development of policy and police practices.
 Turner led a programme of public engagements around policing; Walklate led a collaborative N8-
 funded project on domestic violence with colleagues at Lancaster University which resulted in new
 tools being taken up by Merseyside Police.


 In terms of influencing policy, Lightowlers has contributed to a number of Parliamentary inquiries
 on alcohol, crime and sentencing; Mair gave evidence to the All Party Parliamentary Group on the
 Use of Armed Drones; Measham advises government through her permanent membership of two
 Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs standing committees; she was also part of Dame Carol
 Black’s Home Office Review of the Misuse of Drugs Act. Whyte provided evidence to the House
 of Commons Regulatory Reform Committee Inquiry in 2018 and the United Nations Open-ended
 Inter-Governmental Working Group on Transnational Corporations and Human Rights in 2016;
 Whyte was invited by the Popular Unity Candidacy group of the Catalan Parliament to observe
 the policing of the independence referendum in 2017.


 Alongside our long-standing relationships, we have also forged new relationships, particularly in
 the digital and visual arena. Alker McGarry, Kirton and Brooker work collaboratively with local
 and regional digital innovation companies and the British Library. Godfrey held secondments
 with ProQuest. We have AHRC funded collaborative projects with digital forensic anthropologists
 (i.e. FaceLab) and filmmakers at Leeds University which have resulted in visual exhibitions in the
 UK (London Metropolitan Archives, Liverpool Metropolitan Cathedral) and internationally (Hobart
 Penitentiary Chapel, Australian National Trust, Godfrey); Heng produced an exhibition shown at
 The Arts House at the Old Parliament, Singapore.




                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



    iv.     Public engagement and open data


 Our strong local engagement strategy has created new links and opportunities to make a
 meaningful impact within our local community. Since 2014, the Bluecoat, Liverpool's Centre for
 the contemporary arts, has hosted a number of public-engagement events (Jones, Coleman,
 Paton, Morrin) which have created a new audience for sociological research in the city of
 Liverpool; funded by NCRM, ‘Social Science in the Open’ discussed how people inside and outside
 academic fields can learn from one another. During 2017, to mark the tercentenary of the building
 that hosts the UK’s oldest arts centre, Jones was appointed Sociologist in Residence at
 Bluecoat – he delivered a programme of teaching bringing together undergraduates and members
 of the public, and led over 20 public-facing research events. Whyte organises an annual
 collaborative methods summer school with Corporate Watch, ‘Researching Private Companies’
 that is attended by a mix of NGOs, advocacy groups, PGRs and professional researchers. The
 freely-available online award-winning film Art in Fremantle Prison made by Godfrey with the
 collaboration of local indigenous communities in Western Australia gained 11 Laurels from
 international film bodies.


 All of the above activities are in line with our impact and public-engagement strategies and also
 our open data strategy. Data created through research council-funded projects is deposited as
 required by the funders, and we participate in the University’s shared data-repository, the Open
 Libraries of Humanities and Humanities Common. The Digital Panopticon produced freely-
 available data, joining together over 50 large datasets for genealogists, students, teachers, and
 researchers; and subsequent collaborations with the Alabama Archives and History Department
 will produce free-data for the descendants of slaves and nineteenth and twentieth century African
 American prisoners. In addition to democratising data, we also subscribe to the principles of open
 access publishing (supported by access to £600k University open-access funding). We exceed
 current REF requirements by having an open access books policy, and our intention to create an
 ever-growing number of online open access publications online. We intend to significantly increase
 our open-data activities from 2021 with greater use of digital technologies and expertise (Alker,
 Brooker, Godfrey). Our approach to impact and public engagement has therefore been strategic,
 but also flexible enough to take advantage of new opportunities as and when they emerge,
 something we will continue to pursue in 2021-2026.




                                                                                           Page 22
