Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Stirling
 Unit of Assessment: History D28
 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit context and structure

 History is the largest constituent of the Division of History, Heritage and Politics (HHP) within the
 Faculty of Arts and Humanities. We conduct cutting-edge research that ranges across twelve
 centuries, from early medieval period to contemporary. Our research is organised into four over-
 arching research groups: environmental history, cultural heritage, social movements and
 political representation, and Scottish history in transnational and comparative contexts.
 Our partnerships with Scotland’s national heritage agency, Historic Environment Scotland (HES),
 and with international partners like the Palace Museum in Beijing and the Terracotta Warrior
 Museum in Xi’an, underscore the range, significance and diversity of our research, as well as the
 scale of our ambition as a research community with global reach. Our research generates impact
 as we partner with the heritage sector and businesses. We are key contributors to the Cultural
 Heritage strand within the Scottish and UK Government-funded Stirling City Region Growth Deal.
 Our distinctive strengths in Asian and European cultural heritage, North Atlantic and African
 environmental history, Scottish history in its transnational context, American history, and modern
 European history sustain those partnerships and signal the thrust of our international research
 strategy.

 Strategic institutional investment since 2014 has delivered sustained and transformative growth
 to History. It has maintained and expanded research leadership, strengthened our research
 groups, and delivered clarity and coherence to our strategic aims, both through new appointments
 and infrastructural support for research groups and projects. Our REF2021 submission
 demonstrates the fruits of that investment, achieved through:

    •   5 senior appointments (2 Professors and 3 Associate Professors) specialising in cultural
        heritage; medieval European and North Atlantic environmental history; British political and
        religious movements; and early modern North Atlantic cultural and environmental history;

    •   Growth in staff numbers since 2014 to 23.5 FTE - 22 permanent full-time colleagues, 1
        post-doctoral fellow and 1 research fellow on a fractional contract. Our community is
        enhanced by 3 emeriti, 7 honorary research fellows and professors, and 23 research
        students;

    •   Collaborative, co-productive national and international partnerships with local government,
        NGOs, and community groups.

 Our growth is founded on a recruitment policy designed to strengthen and broaden our research
 specialisms. It has helped us achieve a profound change to our team’s gender balance and to
 expand and invigorate a collegiate research culture. It has brought capacity to deliver substantial
 input to governmental, public and Third Sector policy and practice, nationally and internationally,
 and the expertise to contribute to policymaking directed at attainment of the UN Global Goals for
 Sustainable Development. Highlights of our achievement include:

    •   Impact by place-making and community-building through ecclesiastical heritage;

    •   Impact through the co-production for understanding, recording and commemorating the
        mining industry;

    •   Impact through transformation of UK-wide and European approaches to replicas in
        heritage and museum environments, in terms of culture, policy and practice;



                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Collaborative research to inform heritage conservation, interpretation and management
        strategies in the UK and China.

 1.2 Research Structure

 Research in the University is organised through three interdisciplinary strategic themes, 1.
 Cultures, Communities and Society; 2. Global Security and Resilience; and 3. Living Well. which
 in turn encompass twelve institutional research programmes. All History research aligns with a
 theme and with seven institutional research programmes within them, in Theme: 1. Being
 Connected; Cultural Heritage; Home, Housing and Security; 2. Environmental Change; Extremes
 in Science and Society; Human Security, Conflict and Co-operation; and 3. Health and Behaviour.

 This framework empowers us to pursue distinctive high level inter- and multidisciplinary
 collaborations within HHP and across the University. Colleagues from History lead the Faculty’s
 interdisciplinary Centre for Environment, Heritage and Policy (CEHP), and the funded research
 programmes on Cultural Heritage and Human Security, Conflict and Cooperation, the latter
 embracing the multi-disciplinary Research Centre for Policy, Conflict and Co-Operation Research
 (CPCCR). CPCCR was established in 2017 under the University’s Global Security and Resilience
 theme and Human Security, Conflict and Co-operation programme as a joint initiative by HHP and
 the Division of Biological and Environmental Sciences in the Natural Sciences faculty and offers
 a forum to broaden debates about human security in International Relations to include historical
 research perspectives on environmental and climate change. These initiatives have enabled us to
 obtain new sources of interdisciplinary funding, open innovative research projects that are
 reflected in our publications and collaboration, and to create a stimulating doctoral research
 environment.

 HHP’s research activity is organised into four overarching groups:

    •   environmental history

    •   cultural heritage

    •   social movements and political representation

    •   Scottish history in transnational and comparative contexts.

 All groups, either collectively or through individual members, participate in projects delivered
 through the University’s research themes and programmes. They inform the two research centres
 led by colleagues from our Division. Colleagues also pursue projects independent of this overall
 framework: membership of a group is non-prescriptive, and there is overlap between their
 membership. This overlap delivers cohesion through members’ close involvement in the work of
 other groups, ensures the sharing of best practice between groups, fosters a broader vision within
 the discipline whilst strengthening the range of interdisciplinary partnerships, and thus enables the
 advance of a shared vision within History.

 Environmental history (Bowman, Cathcart, Mills, Nehring, Oram, Penman, Slavin, Steyn, Tóth)

 Our environmental historians each bring distinct specialisms and methodologies, giving an
 interdisciplinary dimension to our research culture. They draw on archaeology, sociology,
 climatology, environmental science and life sciences (in particular palaeogenetics). Their
 geographical range is global: from the British Isles to Europe, Eurasia, North America and Africa.
 Their work intersects strongly with the Cultural Heritage group. Significant research impact,
 including one impact case study, arises from this field and benefits from close partnership with
 Cultural Heritage colleagues.

 The group’s focus is the Centre for Environment, Heritage and Policy (CEHP), a pioneer
 internationally in the discipline since its foundation as an AHRB Research Centre in 2002.

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Especially noteworthy is its interdisciplinarity, with colleagues from across three Faculties
 contributing to CEHP activities. Long-standing collaborations with colleagues from Biological and
 Environmental Sciences bridge the traditional divide between the humanities and the natural
 sciences to deliver syntheses of environmental data from historical, archaeological and
 palaeoecological sources that are transforming understanding of political, socio-economic and
 cultural changes across the pre-modern North Atlantic and European Atlantic regions. The group
 addresses questions around cultural limits to adaptation and social limits to change in our complex
 and globally connected society. CEHP has driven a range of interdisciplinary publications, such
 as the Environmental Histories of the North Atlantic World series published by Brepols, and grant-
 funded projects, such as HES-funded research into the ancient Caerlaverock Oakwoods.

 Our interdisciplinarity is exemplified by Mills’s pioneering work on mining legacies, which informs
 the work of Nature Scotland (Scotland’s natural environment agency), industrial heritage partners,
 and HES. We have generated collaborative research globally on environmental disasters,
 including Slavin’s projects with top-ranking international partners at the Max Planck Institute for
 the Science of Human History, Jena.

 Cultural heritage (Bonacchi, Cathcart, Foster, Gao, Jones, Morgan, Oram, Penman, Smyth,
 Tóth)

 Such a strong presence of heritage specialists, each bringing distinct specialisms and
 methodologies, gives a unique character to our research culture and gives impetus to the
 University research programme in Cultural Heritage. The geographic coverage of this field is
 global: from Scotland and the wider UK to Europe, Eurasia, China and Africa, and to the United
 States. Our partnerships with the Palace Museum and Terracotta Warriors Museum in China, and
 with the National Museum of Scotland, underscore the reach of our research. We contribute
 significantly to conceptual, theoretical and practice-focused innovation globally, and emphasise
 the co-production of knowledge through collaboration of academics, professionals and civil society
 around themes of socio-cultural value, authenticity and identity. Our research is fundamentally
 interdisciplinary, drawing on archaeology, data science, digital media, material culture studies,
 museology, sociology. Our main research impact, including two of our impact case studies, arises
 from this field.

 The group has been aligned with CEHP since 2012, working with environmental history colleagues
 in direct engagement with policy-framing through HES and sectoral bodies such as the Built
 Environment Forum Scotland and Museums and Galleries Scotland.

 Social movements and political representation (Bowman, Cawood, Jenkinson, Kerry,
 Macleod, Marsden, Nehring, Nicolson, Toth, Wyllie)

 This group pursues two thematic research foci. First, it analyses the role of war in forging modes
 of political representation and social contestation from the fifth century to the Cold War, delivering
 unique perspectives through intersection with our research on environmental history and heritage.
 It includes the role and perception of refugees during wartime, and the role of war memories in
 peace movement mobilisations.

 Second, it explores religion’s role in debates about political representation and social movements.
 This ranges from questions of religion in the role of medieval European kingship, about the
 religious underpinnings of social and political reform movements, and concepts of social propriety
 and decency. This research agenda benefits directly from interaction with colleagues from Politics
 and from Literature and Languages.

 We are developing a growing focus on the history and politics of conflict and co-operation,
 especially the intersection with environmental history and the history of political mobilisation,
 through grant capture, new recruitment and publications. CPCCR aims to be a global platform for
 broadening the debate about human security in International Relations to include research on
 environmental and climate change (with colleagues in Natural Sciences). In November 2019, it

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 became the first Scottish research centre to be affiliated to the EU-funded Non-Proliferation and
 Disarmament Consortium (EUNPDC). Through CPCCR and its emphasis on sustainability, we are
 broadening our network of partners through the European Centre for Advanced Studies, a joint
 Scottish-Lower Saxon initiative which aims to sustain pan-European research collaboration
 beyond Brexit in fields of strategic importance.

 Colleagues also provide research leadership through co-directing the Faculty’s Eighteenth-
 Century Studies at Stirling (ECSS) group, together with colleagues from English Studies. ECSS
 unites research students and staff working on aspects of the eighteenth-century Anglo-American
 world. Collaboration has facilitated PhD recruitment, major grant applications, and underpins work
 on two important critical editions (Nicolson’s Bernard papers project, funded by the Colonial
 Society of Massachusetts, and Macleod’s edition of the Wodrow-Kenrick correspondence).

 Scottish history in transnational and comparative contexts (Bowman, Cathcart, Foster,
 Macleod, Mann, Mills, Oram, Penman, Slavin, Smyth, Steyn) from the early middle ages to the
 1960s, is a long-established strength of our Division. Our unique, close partnership with
 colleagues working on environmental history and heritage delivers interdisciplinary perspectives
 to our research into Scotland’s histories, from the local to regional and national, and its place within
 networks that reach across the Atlantic, to Africa, and to northern and central Europe. It thus
 underscores central aspects of the transnational dimensions of British history more broadly, so
 making a sustained contribution to one of the most vibrant fields of our discipline.

 Our research ranges from scholarship on historic climate-change impacts on Scotland’s economy,
 society and culture, to connections between Scotland and northern Europe during the medieval
 period, especially Scottish-European dynastic and monastic networks, to early modern links
 between Ireland and Scotland, to bonds between social reformers in the early twentieth century
 or trade union activists during the Cold War in Scotland and the United States. It also explores,
 through our collaboration with Stirling University’s archives, connections with the networks of anti-
 colonial activism in post-1945 southern Africa.

 1.3 Research and impact strategy

 Institutional investment in History since 2014 has expanded our research leadership and given
 direction and capacity to our research endeavour. New leadership appointments have brought
 focus and impetus to our research across all four groups. The reach and impact of our research
 through our four groups is growing as we continue to expand and strengthen our expertise in these
 fields.

 Our research strategy is driven by our desire to explore complex historical questions, to respond
 directly to questions posed by contemporary social challenges and to apply perspectives that
 range across different disciplines. We seek to achieve research impact through a range of means,
 from more traditional forms of knowledge exchange by discussion with local, regional and national
 stakeholders, to innovative methodologies of co-producing research with practitioners and other
 stakeholders. This approach is reflected in all our impact case studies.

 Our research strategy is articulated through three objectives, chosen to enable a Division of our
 size to maintain and enhance a high-quality research culture: (1) to sustain and intensify our key
 groups of research strength, building on (2) our significant strategic expansion into the field of
 heritage research. This approach strengthens (3) our strong record on interdisciplinary research
 and impact. These objectives rest on the development of a research community that includes our
 growing community of PhD students and PDRAs and seeks to engage undergraduates and taught
 post-graduate students.

 1. We work to sustain and intensify key groups of research strength while supporting
    diversity in individual research interests. We develop the four research groups in our Division
    through targeted institutional investment in senior specialist leadership and Early Career
    Researcher appointments as well as support infrastructure. Each provides focus to our

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    research outputs, funding applications, and impact activities, thus providing the context for new
    staff appointments.

 Through our ethos of openness and inclusion, our groups support the sharing of ideas and
 collaborative working internally, with each other and beyond History, and with external
 stakeholders, thus stimulating partnerships and driving interdisciplinary research projects. This
 brings collaboration on research and writing projects and grant applications, creates opportunities
 for early career (ECR) and post-doctoral researcher (PDRF) appointments and funded
 postgraduate studentships, thus sustaining and enhancing our research groups. Examples of how
 we exploit synergies include:

    •   Our partnership with HES in international projects, including the Ling Zhao Xuan (Crystal
        Palace) in Beijing, to research the dynamics between experts and expertise in heritage
        conservation in the context of international cooperation, and nationally in historical and
        environmental analysis of major monuments, including Arbroath Abbey, Dunfermline
        Abbey, Stirling Castle and Doune Castle. This partnership has supported one funded
        PDRF, researching dating evidence for historic buildings, and generated Collaborative
        Doctoral Award studentships, including a ground-breaking analysis of castle landscapes
        in Scotland. Outputs include bi-lingual, interdisciplinary and multi-authored reports and
        working-papers, blogs, and data-structure reports;

    •   Engagement of local communities, for example, to research Iona’s St John's Cross replica,
        with the resulting follow-on project by Foster and Jones identified in HES’s annual report
        'Our Place in Time' (2019) as an example for how 'increasingly evidence is informing policy'
        in heritage management and is changing the values associated with the treatment of
        replicas;

    •   Collaboration with partners at UCL and Durham on knowledge co-production within digital
        communities of policymakers, archaeologists, teachers, re-enactors, storytellers, through
        a major AHRC-funded project on ancient identities in modern Britain;

    •   Collaboration and co-production with local community groups and heritage organisations,
        church congregations, local government, HES and Nature Scotland, to gather, curate and
        communicate human and environmental histories, and heritage of communities, industries,
        and sacred places. Examples include Mill’s Industrial Devon project on mining legacies in
        the Devon Valley and Penman’s Dunfermline Abbey project, engaging the church and local
        community in the ‘rediscovery’ of Dunfermline’s royal tombs and shrine of St Margaret.

 2. We build on the strengths of Cultural Heritage studies: one of the fundamental global
 challenges of the twenty-first century is the sustainability of social and economic life and the impact
 of climate change. The University's Cultural Heritage programme is a key initiative upon which we
 have founded a strategy for team growth and for research leadership in this field. Scholars from
 our Division (Foster, Jones) provide leadership in this initiative, which makes a significant impact
 on the University's wider research culture. The University has made a strategic investment in four
 full-time Heritage positions and two post-docs (one funded by the University, one co-funded with
 HES), as a core team around which to mobilise wider communities of researchers.

 By forging links for interdisciplinary doctoral supervisions and enhancing the quality of
 interdisciplinary research grant applications, colleagues play a pivotal role in consolidating the
 interdisciplinary endeavour at the heart of our research culture. The Cultural Heritage research
 programme drives our formal partnerships with HES, Beijing’s Palace Museum, the Terracotta
 Warrior Museum in Xi’an, and the Norwegian Institute for Cultural Heritage Research (NIKU).
 These connections, in turn, are now beginning to increase our grant capture significantly,
 advancing our internationalisation agenda. They also increase our PhD recruitment, often through
 collaborative studentships with external partners (we currently hold 5 such awards, three funded
 through AHRC schemes, two through University studentships).


                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. We aim to deliver interdisciplinary impact: Our collegial atmosphere stimulates research
 collaboration within History and supports our collaborations with academics and stakeholders
 beyond our research groups, especially through CEHP and CPCCR.

 Collaborative, interdisciplinary research projects have arisen through planned and serendipitous
 interaction, but especially through explicit cross-disciplinary Away Days, presentations at Faculty
 research showcases, and the annual Stirling Festival of Research, and leadership roles in
 university-wide research programmes and projects.

 Through these partnering mechanisms and our research programmes, we create opportunities for
 new research projects that engage different disciplines. This is most evident in our work with
 colleagues in environmental sciences, with whom we have collaborated on topics ranging from
 fuel resource conflicts to the heritage significance of replicas, and demonstrated the added value
 of our distinct empirical, theoretical and comparative research perspective in interdisciplinary
 projects. This has led to the submission of larger, interdisciplinary grant applications that maximise
 colleagues’ domestic and international research links in projects that bridge between disciplines

 1.3.1   Achieving Impact

 Impact is central to our research strategy. It permeates our research, and we have intensified
 impact within our research culture through the Faculty Impact Strategy, which encompasses all
 researchers and research students in Arts and Humanities. We aim to:

    •    improve impact literacy through training and the sharing of best practice, enabling
         identification of a wide range of potential and ambitious impact objectives;

    •    maintain an impact support structure;

    •    recognise and track impact as it happens.

 We are supported to achieve these objectives by our Division’s Impact Champion, who works with
 the Faculty’s Deputy Associate Dean of Research (Impact) and the Faculty Impact Committee.
 They assist the planning of a core element of our impact strategy: direct engagement with heritage
 professionals to co-produce policy, influence practice and shape values that attach to heritage in
 society. Our formal partnership with HES is important in this context. Through professional
 seminars, workshops, guidance notes, and toolkits we have created significant impact on heritage
 policy and practice. Through collaborative doctoral projects we have ensured that doctoral
 research has impact, and our PhD students have strong sector networks.

 Impact is also embedded in our research planning, and development of impact pathways and
 tracking of achieved impact is central in colleagues’ research plans. Impactful research is
 recognised and rewarded in our annual appraisal process. Within History, our current and future
 case study authors are our ‘impact ambassadors’: they share knowledge, skills, connections and
 insights gained during their journeys to impact creation. They are the catalyst for enhancement of
 impact across our research groups, identifying new opportunities, advising on planned impact
 activities to support new projects and share best practice.

 The University-wide network of Impact Champions, supported through the institutional Impact
 Working Group, enables us to share our best practice and learn from others across Stirling. At
 institutional level, we benefit from dedicated impact co-ordination, support, and tracking by a
 Research Impact Officer, who coordinates internal and external impact training for staff and
 research students. Our Faculty Communications Officer (FCO) supports colleagues routinely to
 write for, and present to, non-academic audiences, through blogs, webinars and public events.
 The effect of this approach is evident from the high volume and wide range of our impact activity
 and our distinct social media presence through Facebook and Twitter, maintained by a dedicated
 web officer, and contributions to not-for-profit media outlets, like The Conversation.


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.4 Open Access

 All History staff upload publications to the institutional repository STORRE, which provides green
 open access to research outputs and PhD theses. We benefit from the University’s
 Article Processing Charge Fund, which supports the costs of publishing research papers
 stemming from Research Council supported grants and open access publishing via the gold
 route, available to all research-active staff. All STORRE-held publications are listed automatically
 on colleagues’ externally visible web profiles and can also be found through the University’s
 searchable Research Hub web-interface. Outputs are available automatically or, if currently under
 publisher embargo, by an automated request function directed to the author. This enables
 colleagues to interact directly with requests as appropriate and to give access to the requested
 output. Research data is stored in dataSTORRE, and accessible in compliance with GDPR
 regulations.

 1.5 Research Integrity

 Stirling subscribes to the UK Research Integrity Office and is a member of the Scottish Research
 Integrity Network. Accordingly, all History staff and PGR activity involving primary research
 complies with The Concordat to Support Research Integrity and must receive approval from the
 General University Ethics Panel - supported by the institutional Research Integrity and
 Governance Manager - before research is conducted. Ethics applications are managed through
 the secure online Ethics Research Manager system. Given the focus of our research groups and
 the nature of some of our external partnerships, we are alert to both the challenges and
 advantages of embedded and participant research, with ECRs and PGRs receiving dedicated
 training, including Peer Review, Ethical Approval, Plagiarism, Authorship and
 Collaborative Research issues, through University Researcher Development workshops, and
 shared best practice within History.

 1.6 From the Past to the Future

 Our strategy for future development outlined for REF2014 identified growth and sustainability in
 our key research areas and expansion of emerging fields of strength, such as Heritage, as
 priorities for maintaining and enhancing the reach, significance, and impact of our work. Through
 our sustained investment in research leadership and ECR appointments, and our policy of making
 strategic honorary research fellow and honorary professorial appointments in archaeology,
 heritage and museums, and environmental history, we have achieved impact beyond academia
 nationally and internationally, and have sustained sectoral and project-specific partnerships (for
 example via connections to policy makers and public sector organisations).

 These successes will enable us to make a vital contribution in overcoming the legacies of the
 current Covid crisis. In this endeavour, we will be major contributors to the Cultural Heritage strand
 of the Scottish- and UK Government-funded Stirling City Region Deal. We are ideally placed to
 make that contribution, especially through connections with HES, other heritage sector agencies
 and businesses.

 Whereas our focus in REF2014 was on consolidating our strengths in high-quality outputs and
 achieving significant impact in specific areas, we have sustained and transformed this foundation
 into a greater and more diverse structure. We aim to build on that through four future strategic
 objectives:

    (1)     Advance the intrinsic value of research in history and heritage by projecting our
            knowledge of the fundamental interaction of social and environmental factors that
            frame the fragility of human life and its constant change. We will promote
            understanding of value that emphasises critical reflection and builds on Stirling’s
            foundation as an institution that fosters active citizenship. This promotion will include
            media to define the impact of our research not only as academic knowledge, but also
            in how we impart analytical skills about processes of social, cultural and environmental

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
             change and questions of diversity, identity, value and authenticity. We thus, advance
             the contribution of History and the Humanities generally to global responses to the
             climate emergency and its impacts.

    (2)      Intensify our work with the public and third sectors, especially in the field of
             heritage and museums, to address the critical funding and visitor-led challenges these
             sectors face. We aim to provide research on the fast-changing exogenous forces at
             play on how heritage is valued, consumed and conserved, focusing on the short-,
             medium-, and long-term impacts of COVID-19 on international and domestic heritage-
             based tourism. Our existing collaborations are ideally placed to grow organically into
             the co-production of knowledge that will make a major and significant contribution to
             the post-COVID-19 recovery of the sector.

    (3)      Build on our most recent successes and partnerships to increase our research
             income and research student recruitment. Our established collaborative
             partnerships will be leveraged to scale up our existing strategy of tapping funding from
             non-UKRI sources (outlined in section 3). We will use these partnerships to expand
             research student recruitment, with particular emphasis on sustaining the number of
             funded research students on collaborative projects.

    (4)      Transform existing interdisciplinary connections and intensify and broaden our
             research within Arts and Humanities and Stirling into further international networks,
             especially by intensifying connections with our Chinese and Scandinavian partners in
             the fields of environmental history and cultural heritage. In this context we will deepen
             our collaboration with colleagues in Politics, Social Sciences and Natural Sciences in
             policy research and impact. While colleagues in Politics have focused on scientific
             expertise in health policy making, in History we aim to contribute to this research
             agenda to conceptualise the question of how policy makers engage with knowledge
             from history and heritage.

 2. People

 Our people give the substance to our research aims. We are a collegial body that conceives
 research – including supervising research students – as our central rationale. This understanding
 informs our attitudes to one another, our availability for discussion, readiness to read draft work
 and to offer criticism. Doctoral and post-doctoral researchers are fully integrated into our open,
 equal, and respectful research community. We use a distributed leadership model to ensure that
 all voices inform the design of our strategic vision and contribute to the development of new
 research directions. Our research strategy rests on recognising, respecting, and encouraging
 individuals’ differences, not simply with reference to our legal obligations but also to wider agendas
 on academic equality led by the Royal Historical Society (RHS). Our practices have contributed to
 the transformation of the social background, cohesiveness and thus dynamic sustainability of our
 group.

 2.1 People and staffing strategy

 Stirling was among the first signatories of the 2009 RCUK Researchers Concordat which,
 reinforced by the University's People and Wellbeing Strategy, is integral to our people and staffing
 strategy. Evidence of the Concordat’s positive influence within History includes research induction
 programmes upon employment, peer-to-peer mentoring arrangements for all staff and faculty-
 organised senior colleague mentoring of early career colleagues. The Stirling Researcher
 Development Programme, mapped to the Vitae Researcher Development Framework and
 managed by IAS, our Institute of Advanced Studies, is available for all staff.

 Since 2014, we have benefited from strategic investment in staffing. Through replacement of
 retired colleagues and those who have moved elsewhere, and newly created posts in areas of
 strategic priority, we have grown to 23.5 FTE in 2021. The resulting appointment of two Professors

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and three Associate Professors to form an expanded senior cohort gave sustainability in research
 leadership and momentum to realise our research strategy. In addition to these
 senior colleagues, six new open-ended lectureship appointments – in Heritage, Modern European
 History and Scottish/Transatlantic History – since 2015 have increased research capacity and
 broadened our range of research specialisms.

 2.2 Enhancing equality and diversity

 Support for our colleagues begins before their appointment: we promote equality by anticipating
 the well-documented biases of formal recruitment measures and ensure that all short-listed
 candidates are fully informed about our recruitment processes. Once in post, we support equality
 and diversity in research through mentoring schemes, and specific support for ECRs.
 Our Division’s growth, through new hires and promotions, has brought significant changes since
 REF2014, with regard to the gender, linguistic and age profiles, as well as career backgrounds of
 our colleagues; five have diverse first career backgrounds outside academia. This transformation
 arose directly from our conscious strategy to increase equality and diversity in line with our
 research strategy.

 Since 2014, although the gender balance among professors remains a work in progress, 1 female
 Professor and 1 female Associate Professor have been appointed, and 4 female colleagues have
 achieved promotion to senior lectureships through active mentoring by senior colleagues. They
 have then assumed proactive roles in mentoring ECRs and in research leadership.

 Table 1. Gender and rank distribution of full-time staff at History and Heritage at Stirling, as of
 2020
  Rank                              Number                             Gender
  Post-doc                          1                                  1F
  Lecturer                          7                                  3F 4M
  Senior Lecturer                   8                                  4F 4M
  Associate Professor               3                                  1F 2M
  Professor                         4                                  1F 3M
  Total                             23                                 10F 13M


 We are striving to address the limited ethnic diversity among our staff and research students. We
 have initiated a collective reflection inspired by the RHS reports on Gender and on Race, Ethnicity
 and Equality and we work closely with the Scottish Graduate School for Arts and Humanities
 (SGSAH) to improve the diversity of our PhD student recruitment (Nehring sits on SGSAH's EDI
 working group). Our process of reflection is supported by the University's EDI working group. We
 also participate in the Faculty's Athena Swan process.

 Colleagues benefit from the University’s maternity, paternity and parental leave schemes,
 alongside opportunities for fractional contracts and flexible working. We work with colleagues to
 find the best approach for them and have supported four colleagues with parental leave during the
 census period. We provide reduced workloads for staff returning from maternity leave (including
 one semester of teaching-free research time). We are committed to normalising and welcoming
 leave and fractional working, for caring or other reasons.

 2.3 Research-targeted support for all staff

 Responsibility for research policy, support, and mentoring for all colleagues, lies with our Research
 Director who works together with our Impact Champion. We supplement this formal role with

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 informal peer support by senior colleagues. This arrangement stimulates regular discussions with
 colleagues at the earliest stages, before research proposals take shape in funding applications or
 written work. CEHP and CPCCR workshops, ECSS, Modern Group and wider divisional research
 seminars offer a collegial atmosphere to air initial ideas for external seminar papers and articles
 and receive feedback to strengthen and focus drafts. We run one-to-one peer-review sessions for
 grant applications, organised by the Research Director and selected peer reviewers from our
 Division and cognate areas across the University.

 The Faculty's Workload Allocation Model ringfences 40% of colleagues' time commitment for
 research and specifically allocates time to career development opportunities and training. This
 empowers colleagues, in line with Faculty policy, to plan research and teaching loads flexibly, for
 example by arranging semesters with lighter teaching loads to enable the completion of specific
 research projects. We keep one day per week free from teaching to enable research.

 All research-active staff can apply for institutionally funded research leave every seventh semester
 (or two semesters’ leave after twelve semesters’ teaching). Research leave is linked with
 applications for externally funded projects and an ambitious programme of publications. Since
 January 2014, all colleagues applying for research leave were successful, averaging two
 applications from History per year.

 We use our Divisional and Faculty funds to support all staff with an annual research budget - mean
 spend per person £1,000 per annum - for conference attendance and related research costs, such
 as travel to archives and conferences, as well as seedcorn funding for research projects.

 2.4. Mentoring and career development

 In implementing the recommendations of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers , we have established a clear career development process. Our annual staff
 development and appraisal process – referred to as Achieving Success – includes the production
 and review of a Personal Research Plan (PRP). With guidance from the Research Director as well
 as specific colleagues with relevant expertise, the PRP details colleagues’ research funding
 applications, impact activities and output plans and helps them develop a strategy for the
 development of their research and impact plans. ECRs receive individual support from appointed
 senior colleagues from the Division or the Faculty. To support planned, sustainable expansion,
 each research group’s growth plans are agreed with HHP’s Head and the Faculty Dean and are
 embedded in colleagues’ PRPs and through annual review.

 Our strategy encourages all colleagues to develop grant applications that are ambitious relative
 to the stage of their careers. We regard small grants as a basis for high-quality publications, as
 impact triggers, and as the foundation for large bids. Developing such seed-corn awards into larger
 funding applications is a planned element of our research strategy, designed to grow our research
 community and capacity through recruitment of PDRFs and open-ended ECR posts.

 Extensive institutional support is available for development of larger funding applications
 (>£100,000), while informal support is offered within HHP for smaller ones. Grant-writing and other
 skills development workshops are provided through IAS, with colleagues’ specific needs identified
 through Achieving Success meetings. Support to enable enhanced participation within GCRF
 projects is available through the University’s competitive Connect, Connect+, Spark and Escalator
 research funding schemes. ECRs are prioritised for support in attending conferences at which
 they present work-in-progress, to help them build networks of potential collaborators and mentors,
 and to provide opportunities for research dissemination and feedback on draft outputs and impact
 activities.

 Achieving Success also enables us to maximise support for all colleagues through University and
 Faculty programmes. Everyone receives ring-fenced hours in their workload allocation for
 professional skills and career development activities. Examples of research leadership schemes
 include the HE Advance Aurora Programme, an external, women-focused networking and

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 leadership development programme for Grade 8 staff; or the Stepping Stones Programme, a
 concentrated, in-house learning experience for women across the University to explore personal
 career paths and enhance visibility and impact. Since 2014, these schemes have assisted three
 female colleagues in their promotion to Senior Lecturer.

 We provide additional support for early career researchers in three main ways:

    •   New lecturers benefit from the University probation scheme with a reduced teaching load
        (60% of the norm in their first year, increasing over subsequent years) and no major
        administrative roles assigned;

    •   ECRs are paired with a senior colleague, who advises on PRPs and provides wider
        mentoring;

    •   Colleagues contribute to strategy and outputs regardless of status. PhD students, early
        career and senior researchers engage in collaborative projects and discussions of future
        research directions .

 2.5 Research students

 The vitality of our research graduate programme is central to our research strategy and culture:
 we regard research students as an integral and active part of our research culture. We include
 graduate students as co-authors of publications and regard such publications as a means to
 mentor the next generation of scholars (e.g. Nicolson and Macpherson 2018).

 History benefits greatly from the expertise of the Faculty Associate Dean of Graduate Studies
 (Nehring, previously Macleod), who is an Executive Committee Member of SGSAH, the AHRC
 and Scottish Funding Council-funded Scottish Doctoral Training Programme of which Stirling is a
 member. Our participation in SGSAH, reinforced internally through IAS, embeds best practice to
 deliver supervision and skills training to staff and PGRs. It also stimulates a research environment
 that focuses on interdisciplinary partnerships and collaboration from which our PGRs are
 beneficiaries. All staff regularly undergo and offer training via IAS and SGSAH in PhD supervision.
 The guiding principle is that both supervisors on a team share supervision equally to enable our
 PhD students to make the most of their complementary knowledge and skills. When possible, we
 pair senior and less experienced staff to learn from each other during co-supervision. This
 combination of training helps ensure that all staff are highly skilled in postgraduate researcher
 development.

 Colleagues are SGSAH History, Archaeology and Heritage studentship award panel members
 and members of SGSAH’s Catalysts that offer discipline specific training sessions to Scottish
 PGRs. Shared best practice and advanced supervisor training programmes in IAS, has
 helped History supervisors to engage with doctoral programme applicants to enhance the quality
 of applications and projects involving cutting-edge research, and increase studentship application
 success rates for UKRI and non-UKRI-funded projects.

 Specific support for our postgraduate students takes three main forms: cultural, educational, and
 financial.

 We strive to integrate PhD students fully into our researcher community. They own one of five
 History and Heritage slots in HHP’s annual research seminar series, for which they select the
 speaker(s) and chair the discussion. Likewise, they are integral to the CEHP's seminar series and
 in the ECSS’s work-in-progress workshops and annual writing retreats.

 All first-year research students present papers at HHP’s postgraduate research symposium, which
 is a popular annual feature of our diary and is attended by full-time staff, ECRs and PhD students
 at all stages. Our PGRs also help to organise and present papers at the Faculty's annual Graduate


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Conference. This conference attracts more than 90 participants each year from Stirling, the UK
 and continental Europe.

 We are committed to enhancing our PhD students' research through a bespoke programme of
 doctoral development as well as through four types of skills training that are available to all
 students:

    •   All students have, through the IAS, access to research skills training for future careers;

    •   They also participate in career development, skills training and networking events through
        SGSAH and the Scottish Graduate School in Social Sciences (SGSSS), including their
        summer schools;

    •   We extend teaching experience opportunities to PGRs, following RHS guidelines on
        employing postgraduate students for teaching, to avoid exploitative relationships.

 We support PhD research financially. Since 2014, the Faculty has made one full scholarship per
 year available for a top PhD student, and our Division has held three of these scholarships within
 the 6-year period. All our PhD students have had access to around £250 of research funding
 annually. In addition to their research allowance, the Faculty makes funds available for strategic
 training activities to enhance PGR career portfolio development.

 Recruitment and funding

 Through participation in SGSAH and SGSSS, we have recruited a steady and growing stream of
 funded PhD students. Since 2014, our efforts have yielded a significant increase in students
 funded by UKRI, the University and other bodies, such as the Leverhulme Trust (table 2), both in
 absolute numbers and especially as a percentage of all our PGR students (with a stable intake
 and, on average, around 25 RPG students registered every year); our success-rate for the SGSAH
 competition is in the top quartile of all participating Universities. Slightly more than half of our
 students are working part-time on their PhDs.

 Table 2. Funded post-graduate research students in History and Heritage at Stirling, 2014-20


  Academic year       2014       2015      2016       2017      2018       2019      2020

  New funded
  students            1          1         1          1         1          3         5



  Percentage of
  funded students     5          6         6          4         11         11        21


 Our PGR recruitment strategy follows a diversified model which combines direct recruitment,
 recruitment through funded projects, and recruitment through our taught (MSc) and research
 Masters (MRes) programmes.
 Our strategy of interdisciplinary and inter-institutional co-supervision has enabled us to
 expand the diversity of our funded PhD students. We co-supervise with colleagues in disciplines
 including Literature, Creative Writing, Politics, Media Studies, Sociology, Archaeology, and
 Environmental Sciences. We actively pursue and win supervisor-led collaborative studentships
 with external partners, including the National Records of Scotland, National Museums Scotland,
 HES and the Glasgow Building Preservation Trust. These research partnerships have so far

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 brought participation in seven SGSAH or SGSSS-funded PhD studentships with colleagues from
 other divisions across Stirling, and at other Scottish universities.
 Our PhD students have consistently won prestigious national and international fellowships and
 additional funding for their research, including from the RHS, the Gilder Lehrman Foundation, the
 British Library, the Huntington Library, and Harvard University.
 Employability and career development
 Our doctoral development strategy is driven by the assumption that many PhD graduates will not
 embark on academic careers. Through our CDAs and MATCH-funded studentships, some PhD
 students gain direct work experience and skills beyond academia. Bespoke career advice is
 available to every research student through the University Careers Service. History colleagues
 provide pioneering leadership at Stirling and, through SGSAH, in Scotland in showcasing post-
 doctoral career opportunities beyond academia.
 Outcomes show the success of our strategy. Four recent graduates were appointed to academic
 positions (three at Russell Group institutions), one became the first female Director of the
 prestigious Canadian Parliamentary Internship Programme in its 47-year history. One recent
 graduate is now Managing Editor of the John Dickinson Writings Project following positions as
 assistant editor of the Adams Family Papers at the Massachusetts Historical Society in Boston,
 MA, and regional editor to the Omohundro Institute of Early American History and Culture in
 Williamsburg, VA. Beyond academia, graduates work for Historic England, Scottish Museum of
 Flight, the historical research department of Zetica, the leader in engineering and environmental
 geophysics and in research administration at Scottish universities, or in archives. Their books are
 under contract with major academic publishers. Both HHP and the Faculty regularly run seminars
 and workshops where we bring PGR alumni back to share their experiences during and since
 obtaining their PhD. Our research environment therefore remains sustainable, while constantly
 renewing itself.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 Securing external research grant income is vital to sustaining our innovation and collaborative
 research. As a result of our research strategy, we have increased the number and volume of
 research grant applications significantly since 2014. By working with Third Sector bodies and the
 tourism industry, we have diversified the sources of our funding beyond UKRI.

 Since REF2014, we have submitted 86 grant applications amounting, collectively, to £13,418,755

 Table 3. Grant application income of History, Heritage and Politics, Stirling, 2014-2020

                    2014    2015      2016        2017       2018          2019         2020
  No.         of    1       8         14          17         16            10           20
  applications
  Value sought      4,925   146,908   1,549,295   913,911    1,621,302     2,581,759    6,600,656
  (cost        to
  funder,
  pounds
  sterling)
  Value             4,925   57,428    87,360      72,012     214,167       25,676       463,529
  awarded
  (cost        to
  funder,
  pounds
  sterling)




                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To enhance the quality and success of grant applications, we introduced a rigorous peer-review
 process and other measures to enhance our research community. As a result, we have increased
 application numbers significantly; almost every full-time colleague submitted a funding application
 in 2020. Our efforts have been rewarded with a fourteenfold increase in the value of awards from
 all external funders between 2014 and 2020.

 We pursue three avenues for obtaining funding that have proven successful for us and on which
 we will build. The first is to provide an essential disciplinary contribution to very large multi-
 disciplinary consortia, such as an AHRC project on ancient heritage and identities in modern
 Britain. Mentoring by senior colleagues who act as Co-Is has further strengthened applications
 (e.g. Jones and Bonacchi in the successful Joint Programming Initiative on Cultural Heritage). A
 group of younger colleagues and PhD students from Stirling and Dundee are mentored by Mann
 in his Leverhulme-funded project on the Scottish Privy Council.

 The second path focuses on pump-priming funding to nurture larger, long-term projects. Here, we
 have secured seed funding and workshop funding through smaller grants via non-UKRI
 organisations, e.g. British Academy/Leverhulme, the Carnegie Trust, the Royal Society of
 Edinburgh and HES.

 Third, in a conscious drive to diversify our funding sources, we have maintained, and slightly
 increased, income generated by our commercial arm History Tomorrow. It has generated a total
 of £93,083 in the period 2014-2020, with an average annual income of £15,500.

 We have generated a sustained and significant funding stream to co-fund PhD and ECR positions
 through our strategic partnership with HES. Given the current general funding environment we are
 seeking to increase income from such sources beyond REF2021, to secure, sustain and increase
 our funding base.

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 Our funding strategy is underpinned by our infrastructure and facilities. While the primary research
 infrastructure includes our strategic aims and our supportive staffing structures, wider university
 resources help enable the interdisciplinary interactions that drive our research activities. The
 University’s Worktribe research management system, for example, ensures revision of grant
 funding applications after peer review, supported by close interaction with colleagues from RIS to
 improve submission quality. Our research is also visible to the wider community of scholars,
 stakeholders and the general public through STORRE, described in section 1.

 Our research endeavour profits especially from the excellent holdings of the University's Special
 Collections department, for whose development colleagues in our Division were key partners.
 History colleagues, for example, led initiatives that secured and, through a highly successful
 crowd-funding campaign, is digitising, the Peter Mackay papers for the University archive. This
 key source for the history of South African anti-colonial movements is the focus of research by
 colleagues across three research groups and forms the material of a SGSAH PhD project.

 The Scottish Political Archive (SPA), located in HHP, collects political material and archives from
 Scottish politicians and political organisations to chronicle contemporary Scottish history. SPA
 holds material on the devolution referenda of 1979 and 1997, the 2014 Independence Referendum
 and the personal papers of prominent Scottish politicians including Lord McConnell, former First
 Minister of Scotland, and Lord Robertson, former NATO Secretary General. Digitisation funded
 through our Micropasts project, a crowdfunding and crowdsourcing initiative, has made much of
 the collection available for the first time to researchers. SPA’s resources support the research of
 colleagues in the social movements and political representation, and Scottish history in
 transnational and comparative contexts research groups.




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaboration

 Public and third sector collaboration

 We have extensive networks with the public and the voluntary sectors. This strength is visible in
 two main ways:

    •   Through direct partnerships with the public sector: Stirling is the only UK university
        with a memorandum of understanding with HES to facilitate joint research projects.
        Through this partnership colleagues contribute research expertise to HES policy
        development (e.g. the new Scotland and Intangible Heritage and Heritage Skills
        Investment Plan policies), as well as best practice in heritage management and
        conservation practice (Jones is a member of the Peer Review of Conservation panel
        overseeing the conservation of Scotland’s national historic estate and reporting to Scottish
        Ministers). Colleagues also organise training events on digital humanities methods for
        museums in Scotland and beyond);

    •   Through research collaboration with the public sector: For example, Smyth curated the
        exhibition ‘The Stirling: 100’ on the impact and memories of the First World War in Scotland
        with the Smith Museum and Gallery in Stirling, featuring the stories of one hundred locally-
        born soldiers who died in the war, and the Scottish Parliament (through Jamie Hepburn,
        Scottish Government Minister for Business, Fair Work and Skills); Oram’s Perth
        Charterhouse project involves partnerships with Perth & Kinross Council, Culture Perth &
        Kinross, and Perth & Kinross Heritage Trust. Bonacchi co-directs the highly successful
        Stirling-hosted Micropasts crowdsourced participatory research organisation.

 Academic collaborations

 Our collaborative arrangements, networks, and joint research projects with academic and
 non-academic colleagues and stakeholders in other institutions in Scotland, in the UK and
 internationally strengthen our effectiveness. These range across traditional disciplinary
 boundaries such as at NIKU (Jones, Visiting Professor 2019-21); Yale and Monticello (Macleod in
 2015 and 2017); The Europe Center at the Freeman Spogli Institute, Stanford University (Nehring
 2019); University of Illinois at Urbana and NYU Tamiment Library (Tóth 2018). Palaeogenetics
 researchers at the Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History in Jena are engaged
 through CEHP (Slavin), which also hosts scholars of international standing practising innovative
 and multidisciplinary research, including Donald Worster (USA), Richard Hoffmann (Canada),
 Tracy Ireland and Celmara Pocock (Australia). Likewise, CPCCR has hosted an interdisciplinary
 cohort of scholars from Darmstadt, Bochum, KTH Stockholm, Lithuania and Turkey, while ECSS
 hosted Anthony Page (Tasmania).

 These contacts and networks have enabled History’s (co-)hosting of major international
 conferences and workshops. Examples to date include the annual conference of CARMEN, the
 worldwide medieval network (2014), an international conference on modern religious history
 (2014), and Digital Heritage in a World of Big Data (2019). Three Stirling historians led in events
 celebrating the 700th anniversary of the Battle of Bannockburn (2014).

 Contribution to the research base

 We contribute substantially to the research base, collaborating with scholars across the world. We
 participate actively in the scholarly community and shape research fields through editorships,
 memberships in the executives of professional bodies and the self-organisation of research.




                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Several of our staff edit major journals or book series, or serve on journal editorial boards:

 •   Journal editorships: Journal of the North Atlantic; Scottish Historical Review; Journal of Liberal
     History (Cathcart, Macleod, Cawood);

 •   Journal editorial boards: Journal of Community Archaeology and Heritage; Proceedings of the
     Society of Antiquaries of Scotland; War and Literature Review (Jones, Oram, Nehring);

 •   Book series editing, including founding co-editorships: Archipelagic Studies; Records of Social
     and Economic History; The City as Place: emotions, experiences, and meanings; Moving the
     Social; Palgrave Studies in the History of Social Movements; Studies in Civil Society;
     Environmental Histories of the North Atlantic World (Cathcart, Jones, Nehring, Oram).

 Colleagues have edited landmark special issues or sections of academic journals, or have
 published key edited collections based on their research, including:

 •   Joseph Chamberlain: Imperial Statesman, National Leader, Local Icon and Print, politics and
     the Provincial Press in Modern Britain (Cawood, with Upton and Peters respectively);

 •   'Maritime Communities of the North Atlantic Arc in the Early Modern Period' in the Journal of
     the North Atlantic (Cathcart);

 •   Belgian Refugees in First World War Britain and a themed issue on British responses to
     Belgian refugees for the journal Immigrants and Minorities (Jenkinson);

 •   Political Trials in an Age of Revolutions: Britain and the North Atlantic 1793-1848 (Macleod
     with Pentland and Davis);

 •   Political Representation: Communities, Ideas and Institutions in Europe (Mann with Damen
     and Haemers);

 •   The Pugwash conferences in the Cold War in the Journal of Cold War Studies (Nehring with
     Kraft and Sachse);

 •   Absentee Authority Across Medieval Europe (Penman with Lachaud).

 Colleagues are members of the AHRC peer review college and special COVID research call
 rapid response panel (Cathcart, Jones) and peer review panels for the Carnegie Trust (Cathcart
 and Nehring). Foster is a member of REF sub-panel C15 (Archaeology).

 Elected executive roles include for the Association for Critical Heritage Studies, the Secretaryship
 of the European Association of Archaeologists, and the Presidency of the Scottish Society for
 Northern Studies (Bonnachi, Foster, Oram).

 Since 2014, we have given more than 30 keynote lectures at leading universities worldwide,
 including at Cambridge, Bochum, Shanghai, Stanford, Harvard, St Louis, Florence, Paris, Oxford,
 Oslo, Stockholm and Dublin, providing us with further research connections and collaborations.
 We have externally examined 32 PhD students including at Oxford, Cambridge, Dublin, Oslo,
 Trondheim, Wyoming and Zurich, forging connections with new scholars and their supervisors for
 future collaborative, interdisciplinary research partnerships. We have also acted as external
 referees for promotions and appointments in the UK, Ireland, Spain, Australia, and the US, as well
 as for international research councils such as the US National Science Foundation, the Dutch
 Research Agency, the Flemish Research Agency, the European Commission, the Irish Research
 Council for the Humanities and Social Sciences, the Volkswagen Foundation, the German
 Research Foundation, the Polish Research Council, and the Serra Hunter Foundation.



                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We contribute to cross-institutional regional and national research postgraduate training
 programmes. Two colleagues sit on SGSAH disciplinary panels and one colleague is pathway rep
 for Economic and Social History in SGSSS (Nicolson, Foster, Cathcart). Nehring sits on the
 SGSAH executive (as Associate Dean for Postgraduate Studies) and Oram on its Management
 Board (as Dean of Arts and Humanities). Since 2019, we have also co-directed the new SGSAH
 Heritage Hub (Jones), one of three national knowledge exchange and research impact training
 hubs.

 Contribution to economy and society

 We make systematic, sustained contributions to promote critical reflection on the uses and
 interpretation of the past in and for society, nationally and internationally. Research on the
 authenticity and value of replicas has led to the publication and international reception of co-
 produced New Futures for Replicas: Principles and Guidance for Museums and Heritage, which
 has been endorsed and adopted across the heritage sector (Foster, Jones). Similarly, our app on
 the landscape legacies of coal has made a tangible impact on transforming the quality of tourism
 facilities in Clackmannanshire (Mills). Two local groups in Fife and in Leicestershire use the model
 pioneered at Stirling to develop their own projects.

 Colleagues have contributed to national and international TV and radio programmes and to film.
 This includes several episodes of the BBC 1 ‘Rise of Clans’ and ‘Blood of the Clans’ (November-
 December 2018/August 2020); BBC 4 ‘Castles’ (2014-15); 'Secret Scotland with Susan Calman'
 (broadcast by Channel 5 in February 2019); Smithsonian Channel documentaries 'Sacred Sites:
 The Templars', 'Last Secrets of the Templars', 'Tribes in Britain' 2016/2019/2020); BBC Radio 4
 History ‘When Greeks Flew Kites’ (3 June 2019); BBC 1 'Who do you think you are?' (2017); BBC
 Radio 4 series 'British Socialism: The Grand Tour' on Keir Hardie and Ramsay Macdonald
 (February 2018); the award-winning documentary 'The Atom – a Love Affair' (2019). The Isle of
 Staffa multi-institutional research project featured on a dedicated BBC Radio 3 Between the Ears
 episode titled ‘The Virtually Melodious Cave’ (June 2019) (Cathcart, Oram, Mann, Slavin, Smyth,
 Nehring, Foster, Jones).

 A highlight of our more direct impact on culture includes our lead role, together with local, national
 and international stakeholders, in organising and launching the official Scottish commemorations
 for the battle of Gallipoli, on behalf of the Scottish Government. The events culminated in a creative
 writing competition for secondary school children (organised by Nehring), which attracted over 150
 entries across Scotland. An award ceremony at the Scottish Parliament was hosted by the Culture
 Secretary.




                                                                                               Page 17
