Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Edinburgh Napier University

 Unit of Assessment:
 Unit of Assessment 3 – Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1. Overview
 1.1 Organisation/structure of unit: The submission of Edinburgh Napier University to Unit of
     Assessment 3 encompasses research from the School of Health and Social Care (SHSC)
     and the School of Applied Sciences (SAS). SHSC (largest provider of nursing education in
     Scotland) research contributes to the work of nurses, allied health professions and the health
     sector. UoA3 research within the School of Applied Sciences spans biological understanding
     of health and disease processes, translation into medical intervention, and examination of
     the environment as a determinant of health. This submission is comprised of 46.4 FTE
     category A staff.




              Figure 1.1. UoA 3 Thematic research groups and current, cross-
              disciplinary interactions (indicated by arrows) (PTSD=post traumatic
              stress disorder; DoAD=developmental origins of adult disease)


 Research groups foster links between disciplines, (Figure 1.1), driving intellectual benefit /added
 value outcomes from cross-disciplinary working. We have increased research capacity, more
 than doubling numbers of staff submitted from REF 2014 in 2021, adding ten new
 professorial appointments. We improved balance between experience and early career
 researcher development (Figure 1.2). Research student completions rose by 41% (section
 2.2), and we recorded a sustained, overall 79% increase in research income generated in
 the current as compared to previous REF reporting period (section 3.2).




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


                                           h-index UoA3
                           35
                           30
                           25
                           20
                           15
                           10
                            5
                            0
                                h 1-5   h 6-10 h 11-15 h 16-20 h21-25   h>25


                           Figure 1.2. UoA 3 experience measured
                           by percentage of researchers within h-
                           index category


 1.2 Research direction: We investigate health and disease from conception, throughout
 childhood, adolescence and adulthood, driving improvements and innovation in health and
 healthcare, delivering contributions to the knowledge economy and societal wellbeing.

 1.3. Research groups contributing to UoA3

 1.3.1 Mental Health: Research in this group is focused around PTSD and complex PTSD,
 psychosis, suicide prevention, the interface between law enforcement and public health, and the
 utility of chaplaincy and spiritual care in healthcare scenarios.

 This grouping was strengthened by the appointment of Professor Snowden and two Associate
 Professors (Hutton & Dougall). The group has published several systematic reviews (including
 Cochrane) and meta-analyses since 2014, and conducted multiple analyses of national linked
 datasets, delivered several RCTs, and novel outcome measures. Karatzias’ trauma research
 led to a new diagnosis (Complex PTSD; CPTSD) introduced to the 11th edition of WHO
 International Classification of Diseases (ICS1) He is involved in studies in Europe, USA, Asia
 and Africa on the assessment, epidemiology and psychological treatment of CPTSD, across
 community, military and refugee populations.

 Utilising big data approaches, Dougall’s work (CSO funded) involves linked national dataset
 analysis, examining outcomes (for individuals, services, and care pathways), with focus on
 suicide. She demonstrated, for the first time, greater suicide risk post-discharge from general
 than psychiatric hospitals, highlighted by national bodies noting benefits of linked data. A CSO
 funded project summarising health records of individuals who later died by suicide, examining
 impacts of recorded childhood adverse experiences in terms of subsequent mental health and
 suicidal behaviours is ongoing. Dougall works in collaboration with Maternal and Child Health
 on a PTSD project led by Hollins-Martin (below), and her expertise is utilised across other
 UoA3 themes, notably Biomedical Sciences and Cardiovascular Health (CSO, NIHR, Stroke
 Association funded).

 Hutton published the first RCT of a psychological intervention to improve treatment decision-
 making capacity in psychosis, and the first study of the effects of collaborative psychological
 assessment and formulation of impaired capacity in people with psychosis. He is PI on a CSO-

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funded Umbrella trial, where the effect of these and other interventions on capacity are
 examined in multiple parallel single-blind RCTs. To improve effectiveness, acceptability and cost
 effectiveness of psychological interventions for people with severe and complex mental health
 problems, Hutton and Karatzias formed key collaborations with local NHS clinicians – the
 Edinburgh Research and Innovation Centre for Complex and Acute Mental Health Problems
 (https://www.ericca.co.uk/).

 Stavert (UoA18) directs our Centre for Mental Health and Capacity Law, giving testimony to
 parliamentary committees, thereby influencing policy. Current work examines mental health
 tribunals (Nuffield Foundation funded). Heyman collaborates with international public health
 experts, the Scottish Government, Assistant Chief Constables and other academics,
 underpinning the creation of the Scottish Centre for Law Enforcement and Public Health. Ring
 collaborates to synthesise the existing evidence base with systematic reviews and meta-
 ethnographies across several areas (suicidal experience among children; emergency room
 treatment of those who self-harm; and substance use among homeless people). Person centred
 care is a key priority area for the NHS, Department of Health, and the WHO.

 Murray and Chouliara (now University of Abertay) developed a suicide risk assessment tool
 aligned to person-centred principles for use in emergency admissions wards. Snowden (funded
 by NES, CSO, SAMH, Macmillan) led a five-year evaluation of ‘Improving the Cancer Journey’,
 designed to support holistic needs and mental well-being following cancer diagnosis. This work
 underpinned Scottish Government and Macmillan £18million investment into a national rollout of
 the project. Snowden also designed the first patient reported outcome measure (The Scottish
 PROM) for healthcare chaplains, now in use worldwide.

 1.3.2 Population & Public Health: This group encompasses research into population health,
 sexual health, blood borne viruses, physical activity, cancer and healthcare workers health.

 The appointment of Kyle (Reader), Atherton (Reader), Frost (Lecturer) and Williams
 (Professor) increased focus upon local and international public health challenges.

 Recent projects included work on the impact of Hepatitis C on intravenous drug users and
 development of GP-led approaches to patient care (Whitely, CSO funded), and Coull’s work
 focussing upon tissue viability and ulceration, relating to injected drug abuse, with impact
 enabled by her retention of a part-time clinical position (NHS Lothian), and commitment to e-
 learning development for the nursing profession (NES funded).

 Best practice in supporting families affected by paternal substance misuse (Whittaker, NIHR
 funded) deals with wider ramifications of current societal issues. Similarly, Williams (NIHR PHR)
 recently completed a randomised control trial (RCT), examining impact of a brief alcohol
 intervention delivered by text message, followed by successful completion of an NIHR pilot trial
 to reduce alcohol consumption among people with high BMI.

 Regarding workplace health, ‘Nurse’s Lives’, led by Kyle, demonstrated high levels of obesity
 among the national nursing workforce; and subsequent work has examined strategies to
 address this. Future health is examined by studies to reduce sun exposure and sunburn among
 adolescents (Kyle, CSO funded). Frost’s musculoskeletal care and rehabilitation for long term
 conditions, and promotion of physical activity in older people, (including implementation)
 exemplifies aims to provide benefit to all age groups (EU funded, JIGSAW-E funded).


                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 As potential of ‘big data’ analyses came to the fore, Atherton was appointed deputy director of
 the ESRC funded Scottish Centre for Administrative Data Research, a £10 million initiative
 (~700K to ENU) to facilitate and enable use of Scottish census and administrative data for social
 science research to inform policy. He has led data linkage projects which improved
 understanding of social circumstances of people at the end of life, drivers behind changes in
 place of death, welfare of military veterans, and of care home residents during the current
 pandemic.

 1.3.3 Maternal & Child Health: Partnering with Scottish Government, NHS Education Scotland,
 and NHS Lothian, focus is upon self-harm and suicidal behaviour in children, improving child and
 maternal nutrition, addressing trauma around childbirth and stillbirth, improving management of
 long-term conditions in children, and advancing practice through new models of care and
 education.

 This theme was significantly strengthened by the appointment of Hollins-Martin (Professor),
 Ring (Associate Professor), McInnes (Lecturer), and Malcolm (Lecturer).

 Hollins-Martin led development and roll out of a robust and clinically useful Birth Satisfaction
 Scale, validated internationally (Iran, Greece, USA, Turkey, Australia, Spain, UK, Israel,
 Slovakia). Her research extends to examining PTSD associated with perinatal loss (CSO),
 preventing preterm loss and stillbirth (NIHR) and maternity care inequality in Scotland. Funding
 from MNH Lothian for a joint clinical academic post (McInnes) led to the examination of
 breastfeeding services.

 As part of our strategy to ensure direct patient benefit from our work, we developed novel
 intervention studies to increase physical activity among young people with asthma (Williams &
 Murray, CSO), and improve adherence to chest physiotherapy among children with cystic
 fibrosis (Williams, CSO & CF Trust). Group members developed methodological practices
 regarding systematic reviews of qualitative research (Ring, NHIR), (final report rated
 ‘outstanding’ by NIHR). These guidelines were simultaneously published in four journals and
 feature as the reporting template in the EQUATOR network international guidance on study
 reporting. Rings’ research focusses on generation and evaluation of evidence in practice,
 relating to the self-management of long-term conditions e.g. asthma (impacting upon current UK
 (SIGN/BTS) and international (GINA) asthma guidelines) and mental health (most shared paper
 in Journal of Child and Adolescent Mental Health). It has a strong meta ethnography focus,
 working collaboratively with universities of Stirling, Edinburgh and Cardiff on the NIHR funded
 eMERGE project, developing evidence-based reporting guidelines for meta-ethnography.

 1.3.4 Innovations in Health & Social Care Practice: This group focusses on developing
 innovative and technological solutions and attitudes to complex health problems, including
 service delivery/redesign.

 Strengthened by the recruitment of McKay as lead (Associate Professor, occupational therapy)
 and Williams, this group led two of the largest evaluations (£1m) of interventions to change
 ward culture since the Francis Inquiry Report (2013). These include two separate stepped
 wedge trials covering 30 wards and over 1,500 patients (Scottish Government). The evaluation
 of the ‘Productive Ward’ is the most robust evaluation of this ward culture interventions to date.
 Williams developed novel outcome measures assessing both caring and personalised health
 care (Scottish Government).


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Ramsey was awarded a national fellowship (Scottish Government) for her work developing
 web-based interventions to support patients post-discharge from ICU, resulting in 2 national
 prizes for impact, and is currently CSO funded to develop a patient centred assessment tool for
 hospital discharge planning among ICU survivors.

 1.3.5 Cardiovascular Health: This newly created grouping (since 2014) aims to drive
 improvements in cardiovascular health through a variety of innovative approaches, including
 telemonitoring.

 The theme benefited from significant investment with the appointment of Neubeck (Professor),
 Farquharson, Ramsey, and Kydonaki (Lecturers).

 Neubeck is an international expert on atrial fibrillation (AF) and leads work on introducing
 screening to Scotland to reduce incidence of stroke. Since appointment in 2016, Neubeck has
 been awarded funding as PI/Co-I from BHR, Horizon2020, National Heart Foundation of
 Australia, CSO, City of Edinburgh Council, Scottish National Heritage, European Society of
 Cardiology, Laerdal Foundation and Burdett Trust for Nursing.

 The group has demonstrated strength in digital innovations, e.g. Farquharson uses digital
 animation to reduce delay in patient presentation to hospital services after acute coronary
 syndrome (CSO). Neubeck’s work led to the development of mobile apps to support self-
 management of cardiovascular disease. Hanley completed an RCT (SCALE-UP BP)
 demonstrating utility of digital home blood pressure monitoring in improving self-management
 (CSO) (ICS2). Kydonaki completed a cluster RCT (CSO funded) demonstrating that
 responsiveness monitoring and online education has potential to improve sedation–analgesia
 quality and patient safety in mechanically ventilated ICU patients, delivering a development of an
 education package via LearnPro that will be launched in all ICUs in the UK. Kydonaki is also an
 investigator on trials examining Alpha-2 agonists to improve sedation (NIHR), and an exploratory
 study of staff perceptions of minimising sedation in the UK funded by Barts charity, NHS Trust.

 Rowat focuses on patients’ lives post-stroke, examining nasogastric feeding. She has co-
 authored a Cochrane review examining dehydration in elderly patients, and collaborates with our
 mental health research group examining suicide risk in emergency healthcare settings. Dawkes
 work encompasses cardiac rehabilitation, secondary prevention and risk factor modification for
 cardiovascular disease, involving a wide range of collaborators /stakeholders e.g., her work
 examining reduced male uptake in referral schemes to support in partnership with Neubeck,
 University of Sydney; Flinders University; Fife Sports and Leisure Trust; NHS Fife, NHS
 Highland (Burdett Trust funded).

 1.3.6 Biomedical Sciences: This group, based within SAS, encompasses health-relevant fields
 such as immunology & infectious diseases, clinical immunology, cancer, inflammation,
 toxicology, neuroscience, reproductive biology and exercise sciences.

 Recent appointments include Erhardt (Lecturer), Russo (Lecturer) and Vass (Lecturer).

 Barlow focusses upon the urgent requirement for new antimicrobial therapeutics, for example,
 leading work (CSO) characterising antiviral activity of host defence peptides against rhinovirus
 and influenza, (most common causes of pneumonia), which gained international media attention
 and was profiled on BBC television and in Scientific American, ensuring dissemination beyond
 academia. This extends internationally to Dengue fever (MRC) in collaboration with Indonesian

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 scientists. Hutchison and Malone are funded by the €8 million BIORIMA H2020 project to
 establish a risk management framework for nano-biomaterials used in medical products and
 devices, and Hutchison is a member of the Food Standards Agency Committee on Toxicity,
 and the DEFRA Hazardous Substances Advisory Committee.

 Rae leads a (MRC) project which, in collaboration with the Universities of Aberdeen and
 Edinburgh, examines impacts of prenatal insults associated with common clinical conditions on
 lifelong metabolic health. He collaborated with UoE as part of an industrial partnership with GSK
 to develop novel in vivo modelling of neuroendocrine dysfunction. Staines (ECR, recently
 moved to University of Brighton) was awarded MRC-NIRG funding on a collaborative
 osteoarthritis project, reflective of our investment in ECR development.

 Stevens research is focussed upon roles of autophagy in Crohn’s disease, elucidating
 mechanisms of action of drugs used to treat inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), and in
 collaboration with Barlow (MRC, BBSRC and CSO funded), examines roles of host defence
 peptides in IBD. He received PhD studentship funding from Crohn’s in Childhood Research
 Association (CICRA) for a collaborative translational project with the Royal Hospital for Sick
 Children in Edinburgh, and engages with patient families on mechanisms of action of IBD
 therapeutics, with a long-standing collaboration with University of Oxford. Stevens and Barlow
 supervise a research fellow funded by the Daphne Jackson Research Trust and Medical
 Research Scotland, indicative of our inclusivity of support for individuals returning to research
 post career break.

 Wright leads a multi-centre collaboration (University of Glasgow, Scottish National Blood
 Transfusion Service and University College London) (CSO), taking advances in the field of
 adoptive T-cell therapy for cancer and applying in diseases including rheumatoid arthritis and
 multiple sclerosis, now in the initial stages of clinical translation. Campbell (awarded an MBE in
 2016 for services to cancer survivorship) led the evaluation of national programmes such as
 Transforming Care after Cancer Treatment, and is co-chair of the American College of Sports
 Medicine Special Interest Group on Cancer (Macmillan).

 Fraser (recently moved to Royal Dick School of Veterinary Studies) collaborated with the Roslin
 Institute on the role of exosomes derived from breast cancers, and in collaboration with
 Hutchison investigated nanoparticles as clinical imaging agents in placental insufficiency and
 fetal neural development. She works collaboratively with Poole (in joint receipt of PhD funding
 from the Melville Trust) on stroke damage and reperfusion, in collaboration with the University
 of Leon, Spain.

 1.3.7 Microbiology: Closely aligned with the biomedical sciences grouping, Microbiology
 research within the institution has both a clinical (UoA3) and environmental focus (UoA7).

 This group was strengthened by strategic recruitments of clinical/NHS staff (Dancer) (Professor,
 Clinical Consultant Microbiologist) and basic scientific staff (Wheelhouse). These individuals
 conduct research that links directly to human / animal health and food security (in terms of
 zoonotic disease). Wheelhouse’s recent focus is neglected causes of non-malarial fevers in
 sub-Saharan Africa including Q-fever and Brucellosis, strengthened through novel partnerships
 with the Kumasi Centre for Collaborative Research, in Ghana, working on zoonotic reproductive
 pathogens of livestock and seroprevalence in pregnant women (Microbiology Society funded).
 He retains collaborative relationships spanning clinical and livestock issues surrounding
 chlamydia infections, working with the NHS and Moredun Institute. Dancer, funded by MRC,

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 EPSRC, CSO, has an extensive international collaborative portfolio, focussing upon hospital
 infection control. In a responsive manner, she is now working with hospital-based staff on
 effective PPE sterilisation and throat prophylaxis for staff exposed to Covid-19.

 Barlow in collaboration with Singleton (UoA7) leads an Innovate UK funded project, assessing
 the use of post-harvest washing of fruits and vegetables with antimicrobial electrolyzed water to
 prevent microbial contamination with pathogens. Barlow and Stevens have published on the
 potential of antimicrobial peptides as novel therapies in combatting viral infections. Cross-
 thematic research is further characterised by Singleton and Rae’s collaboration (Society for
 Reproduction and Fertility funded, plus internal pump-priming) to determine the role of the
 microbiome in PCOS, and in a cross School-project, Wheelhouse (SAS), with Dougall (SHSC)
 and Brown (UoA20; recently moved to University of Edinburgh) are part of a CSO-funded study
 determining acceptability of extragenital Chlamydia testing in young women.

 1.4 Review of Assessment period research objectives

 1.4.1 2014 – 2021 Objectives: Be ‘academically excellent’ and ‘create, exploit and transfer
 knowledge’. We committed in 2014 to ‘invest in and value research’; to enable us to
 ‘conduct research with impact beyond academia’. These objectives have been achieved:
 establishment of research groups, early translation of research beyond academia, blending new
 staff appointments with development of existing staff, collectively driving sustainable increases
 in external income generation, representing a 79% increase in research income (Figure 1.3) and
 increasing numbers of staff submitted to UoA3 (REF2014 n=22 vs REF2021 n=49).




                                                 1400

                                                 1200
                           UoA3 external income £k




                                                 1000

                                                     800

                                                     600

                                                     400

                                                     200

                                                      0
                                                           2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020

                            Figure 1.3. External research income over
                            current reporting period


 The four following REF aligned objectives have been achieved:

 1. Enhance our research impact and reach by developing and expanding our researcher base.
 Since 2014 we filled unmet expertise needs in our schools, facilitating health research priorities
 and improving balance between basic and clinical sciences (see section 2 below).

 2. Ensure our research remains cutting edge, impactful and novel Through externally funded
 collaborative effort, we gained access to methodologies and technologies not available in-house,
 e.g. ‘omics’ facilities in the University of Aberdeen, custom therapeutic peptide generation with

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), access to research
 materials through international collaborations and development of our skills base (e.g.
 bioinformatics capability). We forged a formal partnership with the local NHS research body
 (ACCORD) and developed ongoing relationships with clinical trial units (CTUs) in Scotland.

 3. Support our researchers Specific to UoA3, our researchers piloted use and implementation
 of institutional research management systems (REF5a). We updated our Researcher
 Development Programme in both Schools (mapped upon www.vitae.ac.uk). We support a wide
 array of training opportunities, organised by our dedicated researcher development office. We
 developed a research mentoring system for ECR careers, with ‘in house’ funding applications
 (financed by school budget), where senior staff mentor ECR’s in bid preparation, management
 and delivery of pilot projects to underpin external bids/collaboration development.

 4. Value research activity Protected time for research (minimum 0.2FTE), is available to all
 academics self-identified as on our Research management and promotion pathway, and new
 appointments receive this automatically to establish their research. Key Performance Indicators
 are linked to research aims (e.g. funding applied /achieved, outputs). Contract research staff are
 included in mentoring/management systems, with a specific promotions pathway based upon
 research excellence.

 This delivered: 1. A fast-growing research community with experienced leadership, and a
 supported ECR base. 2. An expanded multi-professional researcher base (nurses, midwives,
 social workers, physiotherapists, occupational therapists) and multi-disciplinary (clinical
 psychologists, health psychologists, sociologists, statisticians, data and laboratory scientists). 3.
 Increased track record of funding from substantive funding bodies (e.g. NIHR, CSO, MRC,
 BBRSC, EU H2020) with ~40% application success rate. 4. Increased research influence upon
 policy (e.g. UK Government Advisory Committee Membership, NHS), and practice (e.g.
 Complex PTSD and Atrial Fibrillation) 5. Publication of high-quality papers, and increased staff
 numbers submitted to REF. 6. Increased numbers of research degrees awarded.

 1.5 2021 – 2026 – Our strategy for the next REF reporting period

 We recently approved (November 2020) a new institutional research structure (see REF5A) to
 enhance interdisciplinary working, external partnerships, and to provide a supportive research
 environment. We will transition from research groups to centres of interdisciplinary thematic
 research, with UoA3 activity housed in the theme ‘Health’. Transition will occur in alignment with
 UoA3 activity, defining desired impact in terms of societal benefit. We will invest in six PhD
 studentships for Biomedicine, Mental Health and Cardiovascular Health, and two further
 studentships to accompany a new Professorship and Lectureship in a novel strategic direction
 (‘health technologies’). This demonstrates our commitment to research sustainability, growth,
 and promotion of interdisciplinary effort, strengthened through fostering of active clinical:basic
 researcher relationships.

 Within this restructuring, new research centres will be created, designed to facilitate
 collaborative effort beyond UoA3, through identification of unmet needs to be addressed by non-
 UoA3 active disciplines (e.g. computing, engineering). This restructure represents a maturation
 of research activity for UoA3 and the wider institution. Our ambitious plan builds on critical mass,
 and recognises our rapidly changing role as an institution, ensuring alignment with government
 priorities, matched to consideration of our broader impact and contribution as a civic university.


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.6 Approach to supporting interdisciplinary research

 Current: Our open and inclusive research environment, and formation of themed groups
 provided identity and understanding of remits between disciplines, e.g. clinical:basic science
 foci. We facilitate cross-institution working via annual interdisciplinary research conference, and
 smaller, focussed themed meetings. We ensure researchers from different disciplines are
 informed of current developments via our quarterly Research Newsletter, detailing funding
 success, publications, and research updates.

 Successful interdisciplinary outcomes include: Wheelhouse (AP microbiologist) and Dougall
 (AP Statistics, Data Science and Mental Health Research, UoA3), collaboration on a CSO
 funded study determining acceptability of extragenital Chlamydia testing in young women.
 Singleton (microbiologist (UoA7) and Rae (reproductive endocrinologist UoA3) developed a
 collaborative project with an ECR (Society for Reproduction and Fertility, and internal ECR
 funded) examining interplay between obesity, PCOS, androgen concentrations and the gut
 microbiome and mycobiome. Barlow, Stevens and Hutchison and engineering researchers
 work together on developing novel nanocellulose delivery of peptide-based therapeutics. Our
 Population and Public health group worked with computer scientists, developing research using
 electronic vital signs and activity tracking equipment, facilitating understanding of nurses’ work
 and links to their health and wellbeing.

 Future: We will reinforce these efforts through our research environment restructure and move
 from a ‘individual led’ approach to one with greater support for such initiatives through new, fully
 supported, research centres.

 1.7 Progress towards an open research environment

 In addition to OA policy (full REF compliance), data, material and information sharing enhances
 overall research outputs and quality of findings. All data sets from proteomic and transcriptomic
 work is deposited in online repositories (PRIDE and ArrayExpress respectively). Biological
 samples and research materials are available upon request. Knowledge exchange occurs
 internationally, with institutions in countries receiving ODA funding such as Indonesia, Kenya
 and Thailand, used to underpin inter-institutional funding applications. 94% of staff submitted
 possess an ORCID identification.

 1.8 A culture of research Integrity
 Mandatory GDPR training events (annual) for all researchers ensure understanding and
 compliance with legislation. All research projects, during application development, undergo
 ethical review by a team of academics from a range of disciplines (School Research Integrity
 Committees; average of 55 applications per year in SHSC; 300+ in SAS), in addition to
 professional body review (e.g. NHS ethical approvals, Home Office). Approval is followed by
 compliance monitoring, in terms of data management, subject recruitment, project conduct. All
 projects present a formal data management plan prior to approval/submission.

 Methodologically, discipline specific ‘best practice’ requirements are early adopted e.g. ‘MIQE
 guidelines’ for qPCR. Work by Hutchison and Malone delivered in vitro triage assessment of
 engineered nanomaterials to reduce animal toxicology testing, contributing to regulatory
 development. Skelton works on the use of facial recognition, perception and memory, applied to
 reliability of eyewitness evidence, police e-fit composites and miscarriages of justice in
 collaboration with social scientists. An important component of sustained research integrity are

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 our PhD students, who report a 78% satisfaction rating as regards development/understanding
 of research integrity during their studies (PRES2019).

 1.9 Approach to enabling impact
 We define impact potential through identification of ‘critical unmet needs’ of society and
 individuals.

 1.9.1 Development of cross disciplinary impact: UoA3 researchers established a
 multidisciplinary group (computing, engineering, creative industries, health care and life
 sciences). Exemplar activity: Improving quality of care in care homes and care at home:
 We created a multidisciplinary group including gerontologists, care specialists, computer
 scientists, designers and engineers, encompassing skills in improving care, the use of IT in
 service delivery, the use of the arts in care homes to improve quality of life, and building design.

 1.9.2 Direct translation of research projects beyond academia: We engage staff on non-
 research academic career pathways in a strategic manner. Through early stage peer review we
 ensure that the choice of research foci maximises the chance of translation (e.g. a clear and
 recognised problem, explicit demand for the research, available industry/policy partners, and
 meaningful public involvement). We strengthen this further by combining staff from all four of our
 academic pathways to contribute to impact: research (skills, and research projects/findings),
 professional practice (engagement with practice and policy makers to achieve changes to policy,
 guidelines and practice), enterprise (innovations or business links), and learning/teaching
 (interventions and strategies within our curricula, dissemination through our graduates). For
 example, Kyle identified prevalence of obesity within nursing communities.

 Direct communication with stakeholder groups (nurses, manages, student nurses) and UK
 media coverage meant further development of activity monitoring was undertaken. Our research
 on effectiveness of compassionate care (Smith, Adamson), and trials releasing ‘time to care’
 (Williams), alongside new outcome measures delivered by this work, created new interventions
 (e.g. changing student’s attitudes to older people) (Sharp), engaging with NHS to facilitate
 implementation. Coull, via a clinical position (NHS Lothian), translated work on injecting drugs
 and implications for tissue viability into practice. Karatzias’ work underpinned the development
 of a new psychiatric diagnosis (CPTSD; now included in ICD-11), publication of clinical and
 training guidelines by the UK Psychological Trauma Society and British Psychological Society,
 and the widespread use of standardised assessment tools (e.g., International Trauma
 Questionnaire and International Trauma Interview – both now used in over 30 countries (ICS1).

 Hutton oversaw the first RCT of a psychological intervention to support impaired treatment
 decision-making capacity in psychosis. This directly influenced NICE guidelines
 (https://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/ng108) which through their national and international reach
 have direct benefits for policy and practice development, ultimately impacting positively upon
 those individuals subject to capacity-based mental healthcare legislation. Ramsay’s work
 (www.criticalcarerecovery.com) on patient and family support after ICU discharge, was
 recognised as one of the top 5 social enterprises in a Scotland-wide entrepreneurial competition
 (Converge Challenge; https://www.convergechallenge.com/about/). Chouliara’s work (British
 Journal of Nursing Dermatology Award, 2016) raised international recognition of impacts of
 dermatological conditions upon patients. Murray’s person-centred care research directly
 impacted policy and practice (recognised by NICE Evidence Search: patient routine outcome
 measures) with >10,000 health professionals using www.caremeasure.org, entering data from
 >300,000 patients nationally and internationally.

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Dawkes’ and Neubeck’s work with the British Heart Foundation and NHS Lothian produced the
 Evaluation of Cardiac Rehabilitation Assessment Workbook (CRAW) – now used by all cardiac
 rehabilitation services in Scotland. Dawkes is engaged in partnership with Chest, Heart and
 Stroke Scotland, developing e-learning with Scottish Ambulance and Fire and Rescue Services.
 Neubeck’s early detection / management of atrial fibrillation work had significant impact on the
 field of cardiovascular health on a global level, encompassing validation of single-lead ECG
 devices, to implementation in practice, influencing management of AF, informing international
 guideline development. Neubeck holds a consultancy agreement with WeHealth by Servier and
 presented at meetings for Daiichi Sankyo, Pfizer BMS, and Boehringher Ingelheim, and sits
 upon an advisory panel for Novo Nordisk. Hollins-Martin work to reduce health inequalities in
 maternity care provision is in partnership with NHS Lothian Nursing, Midwifery and Allied Health
 Professions Research Unit (NMAHP) to ensure stakeholder involvement. Ring’s work guided
 practice on asthma education and current UK (SIGN/BTS) and international (GINA) asthma
 guidelines.

 Relationships with industry were forged to utilise academic expertise, supported by Innovate
 UK, Medical Research Scotland and Interface. This has been supported by incentivising
 translation and industry related activities through explicit inclusion of achievements in the revised
 promotion criteria, and by providing time and funding to engage in supportive activities.
 Exemplars of activity include Rowat, (collaboration with Ingenza Ltd) developed novel
 technology to evaluate placement of nasogastric tubes. Hutchison’s work on in vitro triage to
 reduce animal use in toxicological screening, and his inclusion upon DEFRA panels informs new
 and existing policy making. Barlow, in addition to working with SMEs, is media spokesperson for
 the British Society for Immunology and contributed to an RSB working group on the UK
 Government Clean Air Act consultation.

 Campbell’s work on improving cancer care rehabilitation through specific, personalised exercise
 regimens (ICS3) received wide media attention, raising profile and importance of physical
 exercise to improve recovery, driving direct patient improvements in cancer rehabilitation.
 Dancer is an expert advisor to international bodies, e.g. Australian REACH (examining effective
 approaches to hospital cleaning), Scottish working group on diabetic foot management, Scottish
 Government ECONI project (healthcare economics of hospital acquired infections). Rae
 collaborated with University of Edinburgh and GSK to develop novel disease models to test new
 therapeutics, and with the Royal Zoological Society, developing methodology to detect
 reproductive cycle stage and pregnancy in endangered species.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

 2.1.1 Research Leadership: Each UoA3 school has a designated Research Director (0.4 FTE)
 (Karatzias, SHSC; Barlow, SAS). Research support is available from Research Directors, and
 Research, Innovation and Enterprise (RIE), collectively advise upon funding streams, costings
 and proposal preparation, and access to internal funding support. ECR’s, and those with RA
 positions, are encouraged to apply for such funding, receiving mentoring in terms of writing
 research proposals. Mentoring is from senior staff with relevant expertise (PI on successful
 grants); examples of success include Staines (MRC NIRG award); Wright (CSO award).




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.1.2 Managing the researcher base: New academic appointees are awarded protected time to
 establish a research programme in their first year (0.2FTE). Staff research time allocation is
 managed via agreed objectives/KPI’s (e.g. funding applications and outputs), ensuring fit to
 workload (minimum 0.2FTE). We pursue person development through formalised progress
 reviews to inform strategic planning, running parallel to promotions framework, ensuring
 consistency between individual development plans and unit level objectives. New staff
 appointments are informed by strategic requirement in research capacity e.g. appointments of
 Erhardt (computational drug design), Russo (Blood Brain Barrier crossing drug design) were
 made to increase strength of neurological disease / imaging development alongside Poole,
 Stevens and Fraser. Ten new professorial positions were appointed: 5 new and five internally
 promoted, via identified requirement, and new associate professors are similarly blended
 between new and promoted staff.

 Early Career Researchers: All ECRs are provided with mentoring to develop sustainable
 research plans. We created: early concept-stage peer review, protected time through research
 modules, grant writing surgeries, writing retreats, and substantive methods training workshops.
 Principals Research Fellowship scheme led to recruitment of UoA3 ECR (Staines), mentored by
 Rae and Barlow through to award of RUK funding, and further (MRS) award through
 collaboration with Stevens, exemplifying commitment to ECR development / collaborative
 working. Training and CPD budgets are available to all UoA3 research-active staff. We
 encourage staff on fixed term research contracts to develop academic skills and accreditation
 e.g. HEA membership (to date, all externally funded RA’s are HEA accredited within 2 years)
 and our promotions framework is embedded into formal RA progress management. Category A
 staff who do not have an advanced degree can study part-time for MSc by Research, PhD, or
 PhD by published work); workload time and waiving of tuition fees is provided.

 2.2 Postgraduate Research Students (PGR):
 Adjustments to research degree provision have improved quality of supervision, and experience
 of PGR students, evidenced by sustained increases annual PhD completions (Figure 2.1) (41%
 increase compared to previous reporting period). In addition to data reported here, we have
 seen 16 MRes completions, and have 76 RPG students currently enrolled in UoA3, indicative of
 our research and training intensity. Where reference is made to the Postgraduate Research
 Experience Survey (PRES), figures are mean output score of our two UoA3 submitted schools
 (2019 survey).

                                          12
                                          10
                          Number of PhD
                           completions




                                          8
                                          6
                                          4
                                          2
                                          0
                                               2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020

                                          Figure 2.1. Growth in PhD completions
                                          over reporting period


 2.2.1 Postgraduate research structure Embedded in each school submitted here is a senior
 academic staff member designated Research Degrees Lead (RDL), with oversight of research
 degree conduct, and related activities e.g. university paid work for research degree students,

                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 operating in concordance with Research Directors. UoA3 RDL’s are supported by school-based
 committees (sRDC, comprised of academic staff and Research Director), who assess all
 progress reports, triaging major decisions (e.g. examination team composition) prior to scrutiny
 by the institutional research degrees committee (URDC). Research degree student
 representatives contribute to sRDC, ensuring the PGR community voice, and use of PGR
 student budget. Importantly, students can influence research degree practice at university policy
 making level. We now have, as members of uRDC (chaired by Rae during this reporting period),
 student representatives, who bring reports from the student body to the committee, and
 reciprocally disseminate information to research degree students.

 2.2.2 Supervision arrangements: We operate a compulsory course to train supervisors and
 ensure compliance with our Research Degrees Framework, aligned to Chapter B11, QAA. In
 UoA3 schools submitted here, a supervisor–student agreement exists to ensure expectations
 are correctly managed. This is demonstrably effective: PRES outcome of 95% and 88% student
 satisfaction regarding understanding personal and supervisory responsibilities respectively, and
 97% PRES satisfaction rate for supervisor skills. Independent panel chairs (staff members
 outside of supervisory teams) support students throughout their studies (PRES satisfaction
 94%); this system being featured by invited presentation (Rae) via QAA meeting during reporting
 period.

 2.2.3 Recruitment: PGR student recruitment is via online platforms (e.g. FindAPhD.com), with a
 bi-annual intake to expedite our induction process, and create cohort-identity to foster
 collaborative researcher culture (flexibility to recruitment times is on a case by case basis). All
 PhD candidates are interviewed by panels consisting of proposed director of studies, sDRL and
 relevant academic staff, (interview panels have undergone equality, diversity, inclusivity and
 unconscious bias training).

 2.2.4. Research student skills development: We recognise academic skill set utility during
 early career, and equip students to self-identify professional development needs (PRES
 outcome of 92% satisfaction regarding students’ ability to self-manage professional
 development). In addition to alignment with Vitae career development guidance, we developed
 (in UoA3, now across institution) formal provision of HE teaching training for research students,
 with option of studying towards Associate Fellowship of the HEA. Students who perform
 university work are recompensed at the appropriate pay grade. UoA3 students are provided
 budget to organise a conference to showcase their research and manage the PGR student
 society (training events, writing workshops, hosting visiting speakers, weekly PGR seminars).

 PGR students have access to the Research Postgraduate Fund for research related expenses,
 all are provided a desk / PC in shared offices (PRES satisfaction regarding working space is
 85%), and (school funded) opportunity to attend an international conference during their studies.
 Hutton developed a unique training programme - Clinical Academic Research Leader (CARL)
 including workshops covering methods, ethics, writing, and statistics, utilising in-house expertise.
 This drew on a “knowledge, experience and competency framework” designed by Williams to
 highlight key characteristics of a highly competent and employable health services researcher.

 2.25 Research Student Equality and Diversity: See section 2.6 below for our practices which
 apply to staff, but also, where applicable, our research students. We considered the impact of
 prolonged illness, and maternity/paternity of PGR student’s ability to complete their studies in
 terms of financial viability where a university stipend would normally co-suspend with suspension
 of study. We have therefore applied full maternity/paternity and sickness payments as described

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 by RUK PhD studentships to in-house studentships. We ensure equal opportunity, for example
 in terms of conference attendance, where if a care-giver was required to attend with a student
 this will be financially supported within our schools.

 2.6 Equality and Diversity
 The ‘human shape’ of our REF2021 submission:

 Category A profile: Our current submission of 49 academic staff (those deemed as having
 significant research responsibility) represents 38% of total Category A staff.

 Age profile: Of staff submitted, 4% were age 25-35 (29% of this age range of total Cat A staff);
 41% aged 35-45 (61% of this age range of total Cat A staff); 37% were age 45-55 (40% of this
 age range of total Cat A staff); and 18% of the submission were 55-65 years of age (21% of this
 age range of total Cat A staff).

 ECR profile: ECR formed 16% of submission (57% of all category A staff at this stage of career
 were deemed to have significant responsibility for research).

 Staff grade profile: In terms of the staff grades of our submission, 53% were Grade 6 (as
 compared to 68% of Cat A total staff); 18% were Grade 7 (as compared to 13% of total Cat A
 staff), and 20% of submission were Grades 8-10 (as compared to 8% of total Cat A staff). The
 remainder (8%) of the submission were categorised ‘off-scale’.

 Disability profile: 16% of our submission identified as disabled, as compared to 11% of total
 Cat A staff.

 Gender profile: 67% of those submitted identified as female, 33% were male. This compares
 with a gender profile of 72%/28% female / male regarding total Cat A staff.

 Ethnic profile: 98% of those staff submitted self-identified as white (as compared to 93% of cat
 A staff overall), the remainder were unknown (2% of submission as compared to 5% of Cat A
 staff overall), or ‘other’ (of which 2% of Cat A staff are classified as – none were submitted).

 Maternity leave profile: 6% of the submitted staff has a maternity period over the reporting
 period, as compared to 7% of Cat A staff overall.

 Contractual status profile: All submitted staff in UoA3 held permanent contracts. Of the 2% of
 Cat A staff on fixed term contracts, none were submitted to UoA3.

 Both Schools are working towards Athena Swan Bronze award status. A Category A staff
 member is designated Academic lead for Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI), a standing item
 upon all management meetings, integral to decision making regarding policy change. EDI lead is
 a member of EDIS (Equality & Diversity in Science & Health (https://edisgroup.org) ensuring
 best practice. Staff undertake compulsory training in leadership, equality and diversity, ensuring
 line management support is underpinned by such good practice. All interview panels are where
 possible, balanced in terms of gender ratio. We are, in UoA3, active members of our institutions
 Carers Network, of which Hutchison is sponsor.

 Internal surveys shape practice, for example: employee engagement survey, culture survey, and
 during this reporting period UoA3 schools undertook two gender equality surveys to support

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ongoing Athena Swan related development. We ensure equal opportunity in terms of conference
 attendance, where if a care-giver is required to attend with a member of staff this is financially
 supported. Where there has been staff absence due to illness, or maternity leave, we operate a
 flexible phased return to work including protected time for research. In other aspects we follow
 institutional policies, e.g. support for staff with protected characteristics, and supporting
 wellbeing. We ensure requests for arrangements for flexible or remote working to support staff
 with these requirements, including caring responsibilities, are assessed under our institutional
 policy.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Summary

 UoA3 schools operate with dedicated research managers, covering pre-award (supporting grant
 writing and costing) and post award (contracting and monitoring). The previous REF reporting
 period saw us move to newly built laboratories at our Sighthill Campus; this was further
 developed, including major capital spend; such investment now being realised by continued
 research income growth.

 3.2 Income: Figure 1.3 demonstrates sustained growth in research income (79% increase
 compared to REF2014). Figure 3.1 data is indicative of maturing research income profile through
 increased larger awards (from, e.g. MRC, CSO, NIHR). We have maintained securing of smaller
 grants in our drive to support our ECR’s to secure important first awards.


                            100
                            80
               % Increase




                            60
                            40
                            20
                             0
                                   BEIS Research Councils, Health research funding   UK-based charities
                                      The Royal Society,            bodies
                                    British Academy, and
                                     the Royal Society of
                                          Edinburgh

                                  Figure 3.1 Percentage increases in income from major
                                  funding bodies during REF2021 as compared to REF2014


 3.3 Income generation strategy

 Drivers:
 1. Recognition of desired impact of research (1.4/1.5 above)

 2. Identification of excellence in methodology and partners (2.1.1 above)

 3. Filling unmet staffing requirements (2 above)

 4. Ensuring financial, time and infrastructure requirements are met (2.1 above)


                                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 5. Ensuring stakeholder involvement from inception to outcome delivery (2.1.2/1.9 above).

 We make initial investments to develop research areas on an internally (school budget) funded,
 competitive basis. This underpins pump-priming activity and forms part of our ECR mentoring
 scheme. We further foster research through indirect costs generated by FEC bearing awards
 being paid directly to UoA3 schools, which is reinvested in research e.g. PhD stipends, travel
 and support monies for conferences, network development. This reinvestment permits agility in
 responding to research priorities from staff and funding bodies.

 For example, the potential of data mining/’big data’ analysis became apparent and relevant to
 our research goals; where we can utilise existing large scale data sets we have done so
 (Atherton and Dougall), and where the data does not yet exist, we have teamed with
 government departments (The Ministry of Defence, the National Records of Scotland),
 stakeholders (NHS Education Scotland, Nursing and Midwifery Council) and other institutions to
 generate it securing necessary external funding to deliver, but also internally funding smaller
 projects to deliver data required for future larger external applications (e.g. Rae’s collaboration
 with the University of Aberdeen). We do not operate on a cost recovery basis in terms of
 equipment use (maintenance/replacement is from school funds), in order to facilitate activity of
 individuals with no current funding, supporting their research towards the goal of securing
 external support.

 3.4 Research Infrastructure

 Investments made during reporting period were targeted to underpin research sustainability e.g.,
 our confocal imaging suite (£183K) was central to five published outputs in 2019 alone, and
 formed the basis of awards e.g. to Stevens and Barlow. Wright received CSO funding,
 supported by investment (~£100K) in flow-cytometry equipment. We invested in qPCR
 equipment (~£25K), doubling analysis capacity. Strategic relationships with NHS organisations,
 such as the Scottish National Blood Transfusion Service, facilitate sample access that supports
 clinically translational laboratory research. We employ two UoA3 full time, permanent research
 technicians, who support ECRs, contribute to industry-led research activity (Innovate UK), train
 PGR students in equipment use, maintain equipment and manage infrastructure upgrades
 aligned to research requirements. Technicians also run a seminar programme, where all
 researchers and postgraduate students deliver their research, reinforcing our ‘by and for
 researchers’ approach to research culture development.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Effectiveness of support for research collaborations

 Internal research collaboration is encouraged through intra- and inter-school seminar series, with
 research groupings broad enough to encompass diverse research with similar overarching
 goals, and inter-group discussions, facilitated by school-based research meetings and annual
 conference. We support external network development via financial contribution to ignite
 relationship building e.g. support for travel to external institutions (e.g. Poole and Fraser’s
 collaboration with University of Leon, Barlow to Indonesia and USA), or, on a competitive basis,
 small research awards, ECR investment awards. Staff in UoA 3 have been supported through
 competitive allocation of SFC GCRF institutional pump priming awards.

 To retain focus of funded development opportunities, researchers submit reports upon

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 completion of spend. Such initial priming investment resulted in Rae’s ongoing collaborative
 work with the Universities of Edinburgh and Aberdeen, supporting MRC research grant award,
 and 12 published outputs to date, >10 conference papers, internal ECR award and external ECR
 applications. Similarly, Barlow’s collaboration with CDC (USA) generated externally (MRC)
 funded work with international partners. Analysis of a random sampling of our output portfolio
 shows 83% of outputs are collaborative (at least one non-ENU author), 46% have at least one
 international (non-UK based) author, and 71% are interdisciplinary. Research collaboration
 beyond academia drove policy development (e.g. Hutchison’s work), and new disease
 identification (e.g. Karatzias’ work). Examples are detailed herein and in impact case studies.

 4.2 Impact Realisation and Interaction with research users and beneficiaries: contribution
 to economy and society

 See Section 1.9. We encourage staff to retain / establish clinical contacts, through joint clinical
 academic appointments (e.g. Dancer, McInnes: NHS Lanarkshire, Lothian) and provide funding
 to support clinical academic fellowships (e.g. Ramsay: Scottish Government re-engagement
 fellowship). Karatzias contributes to Rivers Centre for Trauma care. Hollins-Martin is seconded
 (0.8FTE) to NHS Education Scotland. Coull retains 0.2FTE position with NHS Lothian working
 with injecting drug users. Williams chaired the national clinical academic careers initiative at
 NMAHP RU, initiated the national awards ceremony for NMAHP, and developed and
 administered a novel and successful national fellowship scheme (Government funded)
 designed to re-engage experienced nurse researchers back into research substantive posts.

 Hutton is an invited member of a group advising the Scottish Government’s Review of Mental
 Health Law in Scotland on the assessment and support of capacity and decision-making.
 Barlow chairs the CSO clinical academic funding panel, and works with SME partners on
 antiviral approaches to Covid-19 (Innovate UK funded). We provide an academic home for the
 Scottish Critical Intensive Care Research groups (SCCIRL), which includes NHS staff and is
 coordinated by Kydonaki. The Clinical Academic (Research) Careers Scheme (CARC) for
 Nurses, Midwives and Allied Health Professionals in NHS Lothian was established by the NHS
 and three Universities (Edinburgh Napier, University of Edinburgh and Queen Margaret
 University), providing NHS practitioners opportunities to undertake a PhD or develop
 postdoctoral skills.

 Rae worked with commercial stakeholders including GlaxoSmithKline (collaboration with
 University of Edinburgh), and the Royal Zoological Society (generating two published articles to
 date), and was an invited expert reviewer of a DEFRA report (USA collaboration). Wheelhouse
 delivered SFC sponsored development of a new hand sanitiser system, nominated for
 ‘innovation of the year’ at the Scottish Knowledge Exchange Awards (2019). Campbell engages
 extensively with the third sector e.g. Macmillan and Scottish Government regarding cancer
 rehabilitation policy. She is director of CanRehab (www.canrehab.co.uk), an international
 provider of training on exercise-based cancer rehabilitation for health professionals and fitness
 specialists, and works with UK regulatory professional bodies for fitness instructors – CIMPSPA
 and REPS; ACPOPC – physiotherapists working in oncology, and Royal College of
 Anaesthetists.

 Dougall sits on the National Confidential Inquiry into Suicide and Safety in Mental Health, and
 was invited to present to the UK Parliament (House of Commons All Party Parliamentary Group,
 'Can patient data revolutionise healthcare?'). Hollins-Martin developed the Birth-Satisfaction-
 Scale-Revised (lead international clinical measure of satisfaction regarding care provided during

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 childbirth, recommended by the International Consortium for Health Outcome Measures
 (ICHOM): www.ichom.org/medical-conditions/pregnancy-and-childbirth/). Hollins-Martin work
 has been adopted in > 30 countries across Europe, North and South America, Asia and Middle
 East, and cited with positive impact in 18 clinical reports.

 Rowat works extensively with third sector organisations, including Chest Heart and Stroke
 Scotland and the Stroke Association to involve stroke survivors and carers in research planning
 and dissemination. Dancer collaborates with industry examining applications of electrolysed
 water in healthcare settings. Wright receives funding to develop immune assays to speed up
 drug discovery and development in collaboration with industry (Elasmogen). Hutchison is a UK
 Government Scientific Advisor and member of Defra’s Hazardous Substances Advisory
 Committee (HSAC); Committee on Toxicity of Chemicals in Food, Consumer Products and the
 Environment (COT) providing advice to the Food Standards Agency and Department of Health,
 contributing to Joint Research Centres of the European Commission.

 4.3 Contributions to sustainability of research base

 During this reporting period:

 Campbell worked with a Macmillan task force to integrate graduates with exercise physiology
 into the NHS workforce.

 Dawkes delivered CPD spanning her discipline base in Singapore, Australia, Hong Kong and
 UK; contributed to Cardiac rehabilitation in Covid-19 isolation (multi-UK university initiative), and
 is editorial board member and reviewer for several UK discipline-based journals. She is an
 Honorary Research Consultant, Cardiac Rehabilitation, NHS Lothian.

 Neubeck is editorial board member of the European Journal of Cardiovascular Nursing, and
 consultant editor of the British Journal of Cardiovascular Nursing. She contributed by invitation to
 the national Atrial Fibrillation inquiry, is an invited member of BHF Scotland strategic planning
 group for policy, contributes to the WHF roadmap on AF and is a member of the medical
 advisory group for the Atrial Fibrillation Association (a patient organisation).

 Barlow serves as Chair of the British Society for Immunology (BSI) Inflammation Affinity Group
 (2018-), is a member of Executive Committee, Scottish Universities Life Science Alliance
 (SULSA, www.sulsa.ac.uk/), was an invited Member of the RSB Working Group preparing
 responses to Government Consultation on the Clean Air Strategy for the UK, and also served as
 Secretary of the BSI Inflammation Affinity Group. He has reviewed for 33 journals in the
 reporting period. He chairs the CSO Clinical Academic Fellowship funding panel and reviews for
 the CSO, MRC, EPSRC, BBSRC, the Royal Society, and serves on panels for The Carnegie
 Trust for the Universities of Scotland, UKIERI, the Austrian FWF as well as La Caixa
 internationally.

 Rae reviews ECR research applications for SULSA, has presented and chaired numerous
 conference sessions during the reporting period, and served as a council member on the Society
 for Reproduction and Fertility (SRF, https://srf-reproduction.org/) for four years; Wheelhouse
 now serves in the same capacity, indicative of our intention to sustain our external contributions.




                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Kyle contributes heavily in terms of national and international funding body peer review, ranging
 from CRUK to Cancer Society New Zealand.

 Malone organised a series of Scottish Toxicology Interest group meetings and has championed
 both teaching of STEM, and development of those entering STEM careers with a series of 8
 national keynote (invited) addresses.

 Frost’s international reach is evident from her invited inclusion upon FWO Expert Panel
 Research Foundation Flanders, Belgium.

 Vass has delivered keynote addresses on developing science-based careers for ECRs in STEM
 throughout local HE institutions.

 Wright chairs an advisory group to the Heads of University Bioscience and the Royal Society of
 Biology, and organised ‘New to HE Bioscience Teaching’ (hosted at University of Reading 2018)
 to help development of an RSB/HUBS funded workshop (UCL 2020) on research programme
 development, both towards enhancing ECR academic development.

 Williams chaired the £1.5m national clinical academic careers initiative at NMAHP RU, initiated
 the national awards ceremony for NMAHP, and developed and administered a novel, highly
 successful national fellowship scheme (Government funded) designed to re-engage experienced
 nurse researchers back into sustainable and substantive research posts. This was achieved for
 all fellows. He has chaired the last 2 review panels for the Health Research Board for Ireland’s
 national PhD scheme; and been a member of 5 researcher development funding panels for the
 Research Council of Norway and the Health Research Board for Ireland.

 4.4 Engagement with public

 Rae opened sessions at an international conference (Fertility 2016) delivered to local schools,
 hosted by the UK Fertility Societies joint annual conference, and delivered a session to the MGA
 Academy of Performing Arts on the realities of being a research scientist.

 Barlow acted as Invited Judge, Youth and Philanthropy Initiative (YPI) Scotland Finals and was
 invited keynote speaker at Craigmount High School Student Awards, Edinburgh. He made >30
 research expertise-based contributions to public engagement and dissemination of scientific
 findings over this reporting period, (e.g. Metro, Telegraph, The Daily Mail, Newsweek, Scientific
 American, The Scientist, IFLScience, Atlanta Journal and Constitution, The Scotsman, BBC
 News, The New York Post, Sky News, LBC radio). He delivered The Royal Scottish Society of
 Arts (RSSA) Invited Public Lecture based on his research.

 Rowat contributed an article to the online Atlas of Science, addressing the top ten priorities
 relating to stroke nursing (https://atlasofscience.org/top-ten-research-priorities-relating-to-stroke-
 nursing/).

 Dougall’s suicide research featured in the national press (The Independent), which underpinned
 numerous online and radio based follow up reports (http://medicalxpress.co-suicide-
 hospitals.html).




                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Wheelhouse published an article in the woman’s lifestyle magazine ‘Bustle’ concerned with how
 HPV infection alters the vaginal microbiome.

 Rings eMERGe meta-ethnography reporting guidance is one of three on YouTube produced by
 the emerge team.

 Fraser, in her role as a STEM ambassador, has worked with the Midlothian Science festival,
 Edinburgh Science festival, delivering science workshops to local schools.

 Coull delivered an internally funded public engagement project to disseminate resources
 developed from her work on injecting drug abuse and tissue damage.

 Kyle utilised the Edinburgh Fringe, International Book and Science Festivals ‘Cabaret of
 Dangerous Ideas’ platform to directly engage with public audiences as regards his research
 programme focussing upon the individual and societal costs of obesity. His work was the subject
 of 12 national newspaper articles and 5 national television and radio interviews.

 Malone has delivered sessions focused upon careers in science, women in STEM, at local
 public engagement events, and work on host immunity with children was selected by the
 Midlothian Science festival for inclusion in their suite of activities.

 Vass has used the ‘Soapbox Science’ platform to deliver ‘on street’ addresses explaining her
 work on tumorigenesis to a lay audience.

 Wright’s articles regarding the life of research scientists have been published in ‘The
 Conversation’ and IFLScience, and he contributes a regular column in The Biologist (the
 magazine of the Royal Society of Biology) about issues facing ECRs.

 Skelton, through public engagement activities (Cabaret of Dangerous Ideas, Edinburgh Fringe
 Festival) has established a new partnership with the Miscarriage of Justice Organisation
 (Glasgow), leading to collaborative Leverhulme funding, exemplary of how public engagement
 can be used to enhance our research activity in addition to dissemination beyond academia.

 Hutchison joined (by invite) a Defra/ScienceWise/Industry Steering Group, to develop a public
 dialogue for nanotechnologies.

 4.5 Recognition by research base

 Neubeck : Fellow of the European Society of Cardiology and National Health and Medical
 Research Council of Australia (Early Career Fellowship); selected to participate WHF Salim
 Yusuf emerging leader programme in 2018. Awarded the Prevention and Clinical Cardiology
 Prize, Cardiac Society of Australia and New Zealand, National Best General Practice Research
 Article in Australian Family Physician (AFP) Award, and honorary appointments (Honorary
 Research Consultant, NHS Lothian; Adjunct Professor, Flinders University; Honorary Professor,
 University of Sydney; Honorary Senior Research Fellow, The George Institute for Global Health).
 Medical Advisory Board Member, Hearts4Heart; President elect, Treasurer and programme
 committee member of European Society of Cardiology (ESC) Association of Cardiovascular
 Nursing and Allied Professional, past President, Australian Cardiovascular Health and
 Rehabilitation Association, Postdoctoral Representative Research and Research Training
 Committee, Sydney Nursing School, University of Sydney, Senior Medical Advisor (Cardiac

                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Rehabilitation), Cardiomyopathy Australia, Vice President, Australian Cardiovascular Health and
 Rehabilitation Association, Board member of the Cardiovascular Nursing Council of the Cardiac
 Society of Australia and New Zealand, all over this reporting period.

 Dawkes : Nominated Role Model for the Leadership Foundation for Higher Education, Honorary
 Research Consultant, Cardiac Rehabilitation, NHS Lothian; member of: International Council for
 Cardiovascular Prevention and Rehabilitation Cardiac Rehabilitation data dictionary panel;
 Council of Deans of Health UK Global Advisory Group, International Council for Cardiovascular
 Prevention and Rehabilitation, National Audit for Cardiac Rehabilitation Steering Group, Scottish
 Government National Strategic Group for Cardiac Rehabilitation, Astra Zeneca Medical Advisory
 Group, Quality of Care Committee, European Society of Cardiology, Co-chairperson Future
 Nurse Group, Lothian Clinical Academic Research Careers Management Group, Secretary) of
 Cardiac Rehabilitation Interest Group Scotland, NHS Quality Improvement Scotland Advisory
 Board, Deputy Convener of the Education Committee of the Association for Cardiovascular
 Nurses and Allied Professions, European Society of Cardiology; President of the British
 Association for Cardiovascular Prevention and Rehabilitation. She was awarded presentation
 prizes by Singapore Prevention and Cardiac Rehabilitation and Australian Cardiovascular Health
 and Rehabilitation Association and is Scottish lead for the Global cardiac rehabilitation survey.

 Kydonaki received the 2017 NHS Lothian, Nursing & Midwifery & Allied Health Professionals
 Unit (NMAHP) impact award for “Supporting survivorship after critical illness: service
 development as a result of interdisciplinary collaboration” and the 2015 Scottish Intensive Care
 Society Nursing & AHPs Award. She was keynote speaker at the European Federation of
 Critical Care Nurses 2015 meeting.

 Wheelhouse was awarded affiliate researcher status at the University of Glasgow. Council
 member of the Society for Reproduction and Fertility; reviewer for the MRC and BBSRC funding
 streams, delivered numerous international invited presentations on subjects including bovine
 reproductive failure and extragenital Chlamydia testing in young women; Co-organised a
 workshop on ‘Livestock infection and reproductive disease in women 2019’ in Kumasi, Ghana.
 He serves on editorial boards of three international journals and is International External advisor
 for the Instituto Nacional de Tecnologia Agropecuaria (INTA) in Argentina, and Expert of Science
 and Technology Evaluation- National Centre of Science and Technology Evaluation,
 Kazakhstan.

 Rae was invited to speak at international meetings (Fertility 2017; World Congress of
 Reproductive Biology 2020, Beijing (rescheduled 2021); ICPMS 2020); chaired discipline
 specific meeting sessions in the Universities of Edinburgh and Cambridge for learned scientific
 societies. He was awarded honorary fellowship of the University of Edinburgh Deanery of
 Medical and Veterinary Sciences and is a journal editorial board member (Molecular and Cellular
 Endocrinology, Elsevier).

 Campbell chairs the cancer interest group of the American College of Sports Medicine, and was
 awarded an MBE for leadership and contributions to cancer rehabilitation services. She is
 Macmillan Cancer Care’s Physical Activity Key Advisor, developed the MoveMore programmes
 in Scotland, and contributes to policy, patient information and healthcare guidance, both in the
 UK and internationally. She delivered invited presentations at conferences including Breast
 Cancer Conference UK; Irish Cancer Society; and ASCO.



                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Hutton has spoken at multiple international research meetings, notably the 36th International
 Congress of Law and Mental Health, Rome and the Wellcome Trust funded Mental Health &
 Justice Neuroscience Symposium at King’s College London and is an Expert Advisor to the
 National Institute for Health & Care Excellence (NICE) Centre for Guidelines.
 Hollins-Martin was the midwifery editor of the journal ‘Nurse Education in practice’, and gave
 invited keynote address at the joint research network at the National Maternity Hospital (NMH)
 and University College Dublin (UCD).

 Rowat chaired the 2019 Stroke Nurse Training Programme, European Stroke Organisation
 Conference in Milan.

 Dougall was Programme Committee Chair for Collaborative Leadership in Mental Health
 Distress International Workshops, International Law Enforcement & Public Health Conference
 (2019), and was awarded both Chartered Scientist and Chartered Statistician status by the
 Royal Statistical Society during this reporting period. She has delivered numerous international
 keynote addresses, notably at the International Law Enforcement & Public Health Conference,
 Toronto, 2018. Dougall sits on numerous expert national and international review panels,
 concerned with suicide prevention, policing and public health, and third sector advisory groups
 (e.g. providing statistical data interpretation advice to Samaritans Scotland.

 Ring was an invited expert advisor on evidence synthesis in studies investigating experiences of
 young people who self-harm (Wales), understanding effective interventions in substance abuse
 amongst homeless people (Scotland) and a synthesis of treatment adherence in paediatrics
 (England). She delivered a workshop on behalf of the Canadian Institute of Qualitative
 Methodology (2019) and a public lecture at the University of Malta (2018) on meta-ethnography.
 Stevens sits upon the editorial board of ‘Advances in Biology’, and was appointed as an expert
 reviewer for the Royal College of Surgeons (RCSI), Ireland, and for ‘Fondation Innovations en
 Infectiologie’ (Finovi), France.

 Ramsay served upon the James Lind Alliance/Intensive Care Society Research Priority Setting
 Group and in 2019, was twice recognised by awards for her web-based support tool
 (criticalcarerecovery.com) for post-discharge ICU patients (Digital public sector award and
 Scottish Digital Impact Award).

 Barlow served as an editorial board member of the Journal of Medical Microbiology (2017-2020)
 and was Organising Committee Member and Co-Chair of a joint MRC Centre for Inflammation
 Research and British Society for Immunology Conference (2019), and was appointed as British
 Society for Immunology Media Spokesperson (2014-present), and was awarded a British
 Science Association Media Fellowship in 2018. He has acted as an external subject assessor for
 PhD programmes at the University of Edinburgh, L’Oreal Women in Science initiative and for the
 FWF Austrian Science Foundation.

 Snowden is visiting professor at KU Leuven in (2018-) and developed a number of studies as PI
 from that role, which are now translated into both Flemish and Dutch, and used in care homes to
 measure impact of chaplains. He is lead researcher for the European Research Institute for
 Chaplains in Healthcare (ERICH), lead for education and research in the Joint Research Council
 of the Association of Professional Chaplains, and was contracted by UK Board of Healthcare
 Chaplains to update competences and standards for professional practice. Snowden holds two
 editorial board memberships, Journal of Prescribing Practice and Markallen Books, and has


                                                                                           Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 delivered 7 keynote conference addresses during the reporting period.

 Coulls work was recognised in 2016 when she was awarded ‘Best free paper’ at the Tissue
 Viability Society Conference for work on leg ulceration in young people who inject drugs, and
 was subsequently twice invited to judge for Nursing Times Awards 'Innovation in Chronic Wound
 Management' category. She is an editorial Board member of the British Journal of Nursing, and
 has delivered keynote address at national meetings concerned with tissue viability.

 Kyle is an Expert Academic Advisor on nursing workforce, advising Chief Nursing Officer
 Directorate, Scottish Government, NHS Education for Scotland (NES), Health Education
 England and Public Health Wales, and is Assistant Editor, Nurse Education Today. He has
 delivered 4 keynote invited presentations at national conferences during this reporting period.

 Frost's research was recognised by the Physiotherapy Evidence Database (PEDro) award for
 being the author of one of the 15 most influential RCTs in physiotherapy practice, and she has
 delivered 4 invited keynote presentations at national and international meetings on her work.

 Dancer, in the current reporting period, has been awarded ISAC Fellowship and ESCMID
 Fellowship for professional excellence and outstanding service rendered to the profession, and
 accepted an invitation to join the NICE antimicrobial prescribing committee, and has delivered
 >10 invited international keynote lectures.

 Hutchison is a UK Government Scientific Advisor with membership of Defra’s Hazardous
 Substances Advisory Committee (HSAC) and contributed to ‘Chemicals advisers weigh in on
 DEFRA's 25-year plan’ (The Ends Report) and was invited to develop an HSAC opinion paper
 responding to a policy paper submitted by European Joint Research Centre, RIVM in Holland
 and The European Chemicals Agency. He led discussions focusing on nano safety and ‘safety
 by design’ at the NoWNano Nanoscience conference 2014, in addition to representing Defra at
 this meeting on regulation and policy, and is a founding member of the UK nano group, bringing
 together policy makers, regulators and academics working in nanomaterial safety.

 Williams has recognised expertise in researcher development, and was invited to lead
 Scotland’s national initiative for development of NMAHP research, and act as panel chair for
 review of Ireland’s national PhD programme (SPHERE). He has also been appointed to new
 investigator funding panels, and research leadership award schemes in Norway and Ireland.

 Karatzias is an internationally recognised expert in psychological trauma, and led the
 development of training guidelines for undergraduate and postgraduate psychologists as part of
 the activities of the BPS Crisis, Disaster and Trauma (CDT). He convened the British
 Psychological Society Scotland Working Party for Adult Survivors for Childhood Sexual Abuse
 (BPSSS) and is a member of the BPS CDT Section Committee and the UK Psychological
 Trauma Society.

 Collectively, this document illustrates a vibrant, supported, growing research environment and
 culture, which we will build upon into the next reporting period to ensure our overarching aim of
 improving health and wellbeing in society continues to be achieved.




                                                                                            Page 23
