Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Liverpool

 Unit of Assessment: UOA1 Clinical Medicine




                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1A. OVERVIEW
          The University of Liverpool (UoL) UOA1 submission comprises 205 people (190.15 FTE),
 all of whom are members of the Faculty of Health and Life Science (FHLS). Staff returned to UOA1
 have complementary expertise in discovery-led biomedical, translational, and clinical research.
 Building on strategic changes implemented since REF 2014, we have established three research
 themes which enable effective collaboration with eight regional NHS hospital trusts and local HEI
 partners including the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine (LSTM). These partnerships enable
 us to successfully align areas of research excellence with regional, national and international
 health priorities, providing new pathways to impact and substantial increases in joint funding and
 civic investment. This reorganisation has enabled impressive new clinical academic appointments
 and improved opportunities for clinical academic training in the UK and overseas. A key driver of
 our strategy has been a strong relationship with the people of our region and the need to address
 the high burden of ill health that they experience. Liverpool residents have the lowest life
 expectancy in England, four years below the national average, and the incidence of many major
 communicable and non-communicable diseases is among the highest in the UK. We have
 therefore created multi-disciplinary Clinical Research Centres to address key challenges in
 regional and global health. Our growing ability to effect positive change is reflected in an expanded
 portfolio of collaborative research programmes, each with well-defined pathways to impact.
          Our research is focused around two major clinical themes, Infection and Global Health
 and Life Course and Chronic Disease (Figure 1) which operate alongside a refocused theme of
 Cancer. This theme has been invigorated in response to external review and consolidated activity
 around basic research, early detection and therapy in areas where Liverpool has an established
 international profile and can contribute to significantly address the local burden of disease. Activity
 in each of the research themes is supported by access to extensive local biobanking resources
                                                         (Section 3B.3) and well-established cross-
                                                         cutting excellence in Clinical Pharmacology
                                                         and Therapeutics (Pirmohamed, Park,
                                                         Hope, Turner, Owen, Khoo), internationally
                                                         recognised expertise in Multi-Omics and
                                                         Systems Biology (Kell, Goodacre, Eyers),
                                                         Biostatistics     and       Clinical    Trials
                                                         (Williamson*), and Health Data Science
                                                         (Buchan*) (*UOA2; also Pirmohamed is
                                                         Director of HDR UK North).
                                                                 The impact and reach of our research
 is enhanced by a large network of national and international collaborators including academic
 institutions, the NHS, Public Health England, >100 industrial partners, and organisations in over
 100 countries.
 1A.1. Faculty Structure
         FHLS is the largest of the three Faculties in the University with >2,300 staff, including 412
 Principal Investigators and annual responsibility for ~6,000 undergraduates and ~900
 postgraduate students. FHLS consists of four research institutes comprising 18 departments
 (Figure 2). Four cross-cutting directorates provide oversight and governance of strategic
 investment, regulatory compliance and the enhancement of research, education, and workplace
 culture.



                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           The Clinical Directorate has been established to provide additional support to clinical
 academic staff at all career stages
 in terms of career development,
 progression and job planning, to
 facilitate    better    interactions
 between fundamental and applied
 clinical research, and to overcome
 fragmentation in the local health
 economy           by      improving
 connectivity and research access
 to patients (Sections 1A.2 &
 2A.1.2).
           The Infrastructure and
 Environment Directorate facilitates
 access to sustainable, state-of-
 the-art facilities in addition to
 coordinating strategic investment
 in new technologies (Section 3B.5)
 such as:      pre-clinical imaging,
 microscopy, research computing,
 multi-omic      technologies     and
 animal husbandry, which have
 facilitated UOA1 research productivity and impact.
           The Research and Impact Directorate holds both internal and external (e.g. Wellcome
 ISSF, MRC Confidence in Concept, BBSRC Impact Acceleration award) funds, which are used to
 help leverage additional income, support delivery of impact (Sections 3A.2 & 1C.1) and ECR
 development. The Directorate ensures effective coordination of our postgraduate strategy (Section
 2B), enables a positive ‘Team Science’ culture across research institutes (Section 1D), and
 provides support for Specialist Research Centres, bringing together staff and resources from
 across the Faculty to address focused questions within each clinical research theme (Table 1).




                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1A.2. Engagement with NHS, Regional, National and International Partners
          Liverpool has the highest density of NHS Trusts in the UK outside of London; historically
 this impeded the development of a coordinated, mutually beneficial strategy to tackle regional
 health priorities. However, the formation of a regional academic health science consortium called
 Liverpool Health Partners (LHP), comprising eight local NHS Trusts and regional academic
 institutions (Figure 3) has turned the challenge of having so many specialist NHS Trusts into a key
 asset for the University and the Liverpool region. Working together with LHP, we have aligned the
 research strategies of the University and NHS Trusts to facilitate access to resources, enhance
 clinical research and translate research into clinical impact. An example of the success of this
 close working relationship with civic and health partners was in our response to COVID-19 where
 Iain Buchan (UOA2) and Louise Kenny helped to lead the introduction and evaluation of lateral
 flow testing and disease mapping in the local population.




          Each of our research themes share space, resources and staff with multiple NHS Trusts,
 and research centres that form part of LHP (Table 1). Recent exemplars include the formation of
 the Centre for Excellence in Infectious Diseases Research (CEIDR), Liverpool Cancer Research
 Institute (LCRI), the Liverpool Head and Neck Centre and the Liverpool Centre for Cardiovascular
 Science (LCCS), all of which address health priorities associated with health inequality. National
 partnerships developed during the REF period include those established through our NIHR Health
 Protection Research Units (HPRUs) in Emerging Infections & Zoonoses (with Public Health
 England, LSTM and Oxford University) and in Gastrointestinal Infections (with Public Health
 England and University of Warwick). Multiple international partnerships are led by UOA1 staff with
 a major focus on lower middle-income countries to support world-leading programmes of research.
 1.A.3. A Vibrant and Diverse Research Environment that Underpins Success
         The vitality and sustainability of our research is demonstrated by our major scientific
 discoveries across a wide spectrum, significant investment in infrastructure, deep integration of
 research across basic and clinical disciplines, well-developed training and support initiatives, and
 an ability to translate research into real world impact across each of our research themes.

 This is underpinned by:
     • A well-developed research base: In total, the FHLS comprises 412 research-active
         principal investigators, including 96 clinical academics. In July 2020, associated research
         groups totalled 508 postdocs and 861 PhD/MD students with ~45% of these staff and


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        students associated with UOA1 research. A further ~300 core funded technical and
        research support staff are funded by the FHLS.
    •   Investment in our estate with NHS and other regional partners: UOA1 research occupies
        predominantly open-plan, multi-group laboratories located on the main University campus
        and has additional shared occupancy on eight sites with NHS partners and LSTM. During
        this REF period there has been significant NHS and regional investment, which has led to
        the revitalisation and co-location of major NHS and commercial clinical providers with core
        University estate, housing clinical research staff within UOA1 (Figure 4).

 These investments, together with
 sequential      phases      of    Faculty
 reorganisation, have facilitated a more
 effective integration of research across
 basic and clinical disciplines, providing
 improved opportunities for staff training
 and career development. Examples
 include:
     • Succession planning: Our
         recruitment strategy aims to
         attract the brightest talent;
         these include a total of 61 new
         Category A staff (28 senior staff
         and 33 ECRs), the majority of
         ECRs through Tenure Track
         Fellowships       (TTFs),      an
         innovative scheme launched in
         2012. All TTF appointments
         made       since     2014     are
         strategically aligned with our
         research strategy, contributing
         new vibrancy and skills to each
         of the UOA1 themes and
         ensuring continued productivity
         and success of each discipline.
         33 UOA1 REF1a staff are either
         independent fellowship holders or recruited via the TTF scheme.
     • Training the next generation of researchers: Research activity during the REF period
         has been supported by ~800 MRes/MPhil students, 30 UOA1 MD and 526 UOA1 PhD
         students including students from the BBSRC-NLD, MRC-DiMeN, NERC-ACCE and
         Wellcome Molecular & Cellular Physiology doctoral training programmes (DTPs), the MRC
         Clinical Pharmacology PhD training programme (with involvement from Roche, UCB, Eli
         Lilly, and Novartis), the UoL/LSTM Wellcome Clinical PhD Programme in Health Priorities
         in Resource Limited Settings; the NIHR HPRUs, and 16 international institutions with
         whom we have joint/dual PGR training programmes.
     • High quality partnerships (Section 4):
         - Clinically aligned research centres (LCRI, CEIDR, CELT, LCCS and CIMA; Sections
              1B & 3B) within each of our thematic areas co-ordinate academic, industry and
              healthcare sector partners in focused activities aligned with the strategic goals of the
              research theme.

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        -   Research associated with the MRC CDSS has involved productive collaboration with
            >10 industrial partners including leading four European IMI grants (Mip-DILI, Trans-
            Bioline, Trans-QST, Web-RADR) in addition to a recent Accelerating research &
            development for advanced therapies (ARDAT) IMI award.
        - Membership and lead roles in major regional health and research partnerships: the N8;
            Health Data Research UK North (Director: Pirmohamed); Northern Health Science
            Alliance; Liverpool Health Partners.
        - National partnerships with Public Health England, LSTM, and the Universities of Oxford
            and Warwick, via the Liverpool-led NIHR HPRUs in Emerging & Zoonotic Infections
            and in Gastrointestinal Infections, ensure that UOA1 staff are at the forefront of
            research to help protect the UK population from infection threats to human health
            (including COVID-19 through the ISARIC consortium), and help train the next
            generation of public health-facing infection researchers.
        - Longstanding international partnerships with low-and-middle-income countries in
            Africa, Asia and South America, which underpin our Infection and Global Health theme
            (Sections 1B & 3B). Recently NIHR funded Global Health Research Groups have
            brought together researchers in UK, Malawi, India and Brazil (ZikaPLAN, Brain
            Infections); and UK, South Africa and Uganda (warfarin anticoagulation in patients with
            cardiovascular disease).
     • Improved clinical academic training: We established an integrated clinical academic
        training pathway and appointed a Director of Clinical Academic Development (2A 1.2).
     • A fair research environment: Our sector leading approaches have been recognised by
        the award of a Gold Athena SWAN Charter Award in 2017 and Office for Students and
        Research England Catalyst funding for innovative improvements to postgraduate mental
        health and wellbeing support.
 These developments have been important for sustaining and enhancing our research capacity
 and delivering outputs addressing regional and global health challenges. Examples of our success
 include:
     • Research investment: UOA1 activities cover a wide spectrum of biomedical research
        supported by a strong and diverse research funding portfolio with total grant expenditure
        of ~£245M over the REF period. UOA1 academics have contributed to 70 successful large
        (>£1M) grant applications during the REF period (UOA1 share: ~£84M) with major funding
        (UOA1 share: ~£39.6M) for the research centres (Table 1) underpinning our research
        strategy.
     • Outputs: UOA1 academics have contributed to over 4,000 publications during the REF
        period (430 included in this return), reflecting activity across all areas of biomedical science
        and wider interdisciplinarity (Figure 5). ~21% of our publications are in the top 10% field-
        weighted citation percentiles worldwide. Collaborative publications with industry have
        increased from ~5% in 2014 to ~11% in 2020, consistent with our strategy for enhancing
        the translational potential of our work.
     • Societal benefit: 10 REF impact cases with many others being developed and promoted
        through our local ‘Impact Matters’ initiative.




                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 1B. RESEARCH STRATEGY
 1B.1 Research Objectives and Plans during the 2014 assessment period
 Over the assessment period, the research aims for UOA1 have sought to:

    1. Develop strong and sustainable partnerships with regional NHS Trusts.
    2. Address regional and global health priorities through translation of world-leading research
       for societal benefit.
    3. Foster a fair and inclusive research environment that supports all staff and students at all
       stages of their career.
    4. Develop a diverse and sustainable funding base.
    5. Invest and build on our unique strengths in underpinning technologies.
    6. Expand mutually beneficial partnerships with industry and academic institutes in the UK
       and internationally.

 To achieve these goals, we have focused investment on a limited number of established and
 emerging areas of clinical excellence. We have appointed 68 new members of staff including
 seven UOA1 research centre and departmental leads; six senior appointments to lead expansion
 of underpinning technologies; and 33 research/Tenure Track Fellows who constitute our next
 generation of research leaders.




                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research themes, strategic objectives and priority areas

 Infection and Global Health
         ~40 UOA1 researchers undertake research in Infection and Global Health, with 139 active
 research awards and 481 (£71.3M; investigator/funder contribution) total awards during the REF
 period. Through the Centre of Excellence in Infectious Diseases Research (CEIDR, in partnership
 with LSTM), the Centre for Global Vaccine Research (CGVR), and the Centre of Excellence in
 Long-acting Therapeutics (CELT), we have engaged with industrial partners to develop and deliver
 the next generation of diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines with a major focus on sepsis,
 emerging infections and antimicrobial resistance (Section 3B.4). Through the recently renewed
 national NIHR HPRUs in Emerging & Zoonotic Infections and in Gastrointestinal Infections, we
 work with Public Health England to protect the UK population from established and emerging
 infection threats to health. We address globally important infections including brain, respiratory
 and gastrointestinal infections, and maternal and neonatal sepsis, through our overseas
 programmes in Malawi, Uganda, India and Brazil. We work closely with colleagues returned to
 UOA6, where possible adopting a “One Health” approach to address Infection and Global Health
 Challenges (e.g. through a £8M GCRF funded One Health Programme in the Horn of Africa). Our
 existing infrastructure and expertise enabled us (e.g. Semple, Solomon, Khoo, French, Darby) to
 act rapidly and make significant contributions to both local, national and international responses
 to the COVID-19 pandemic, exemplified by Liverpool’s leadership of the clinical characterisation
 of COVID-19 through the ISARIC consortium and contributions to SAGE and NERVTAG (Semple).




                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Life Course and Chronic Disease
          ~70 UOA1 researchers actively contribute to this theme, which incorporates major
 research programmes ranging from neonatal and childbirth through to child health and aspects of
 age-related chronic disease. Current research is supported by 173 active awards with ~£48M in
 funding during the REF period. Research in this theme benefits from close partnerships with the
 largest specialist Women’s Hospital in Europe, Alder Hey Children’s Hospital, and the Walton
 Centre, which offers one of the most comprehensive neurosurgery and neuroradiology services in
 the UK.
 Major research initiatives include: the Harris WoW Centre for Preterm Birth Research; the
 Wellcome funded Children Growing up in Liverpool (C-GULL) programme, which is the UK’s first
 birth cohort in two decades; the European Medicines Agency Connect4Children (C4C) initiative
 (€140M); and the NIHR Alder Hey Clinical Research Facility for Experimental Medicine which is
 one of Europe's leading Paediatric Rheumatology Research Centres. Michael Beresford hosts
 and coordinates Liverpool's EULAR Centre of Excellence Arthritis Research and the UK Paediatric
 Rheumatology Clinical Studies Group. The theme of rheumatology extends through to ageing and
 chronic disease led by researchers in the MRC-Arthritis Research UK Centre for Integrated
 Research into Musculoskeletal Ageing (CIMA). Other expanding areas of research include eye
 and vision disorders, epilepsy and pain research (in partnership with Walton Centre), and the new
 Liverpool Centre for Cardiovascular Science (Director: Lip). The unifying aim of all of our age-
 related research is to understand risk factors for chronic disorders and the development of new
 preventative and personalised therapeutic interventions in order to improve lifetime health and
 reduce costs to the NHS and other healthcare systems.




 Cancer Medicine
        ~60 UOA1 researchers work within the Cancer Medicine theme, contributing ~20% of our
 research income. During the REF period, external review of our cancer strategy supported a
 refocus of our research into areas of clear strength and prompted the establishment of the new
 Liverpool Cancer Research Institute (LCRI) and the Liverpool Head and Neck Centre. Together
 with the Liverpool Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre (pancreatic and haematological
 cancers), this has enabled us to better consolidate our research activity around specific areas of
 Cancer Research where Liverpool has an established international profile (i.e. lung cancer
 screening and early detection, head and neck cancer, pancreatic cancer, uveal melanoma,
 therapeutic safety and precision medicine), while also addressing the regional demands of cancer


                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 burden. Two new expanding areas of cancer research include immunotherapy (head and neck
 cancer) driven by the recent appointment of Christian Ottensmeier, and the mitigation of adverse
 cardiovascular side-effects of chemotherapy, led by a partnership between the MRC CDSS
 (Pirmohamed), LCCS (Lip) and the Liverpool Heart and Chest Hospital NHS Foundation Trust.




 Cross-cutting excellence in Pharmacology and Therapeutics
         The University of Liverpool has a long-established international reputation in the area of
 Clinical Pharmacology, Drug Safety and Personalised Medicine, being awarded the Queen's
 Anniversary Prize for work towards improving the safety and effectiveness of medicines in 2017.
 This is a major focus of our research activity with ~40 researchers providing a range of molecular,
 computational, and clinical expertise, generating ~£51M in awards during the REF period.
 Expanding on the foundations developed through the MRC Centre for Drug Safety Science
 (CDSS), this cross-cutting theme provides valuable expertise and infrastructure to facilitate
 effective translational research in all three of our research themes, including the implementation
 of Personalised Medicine (Pirmohamed, Alfirevic), Drug Safety Science (Park, Pirmohamed),
 Infection Pharmacology (Khoo, Owen, Turner), Antimicrobial Pharmacology (Hope),
 Neuropharmacology (Marson, UoA4), the avoidance/mitigation of therapeutic adverse drug effects
 (Pirmohamed, Sharma, Lip, Lane) and novel nanotherapeutics (Owen). Our themes also benefit
 from a large complement of specialised infrastructure and internationally recognised expertise in
 Multi-Omics (Section 3B).
 1B.2. Achievement Against Strategy During the REF Period
 Our strategy has been focused on facilitating outstanding discovery-led science and driving
 translation and impact that will have long-term benefits for patients and the public. Strategic aims
 implemented during the current REF period have had a significant positive effect in the following
 areas:

 i) Enhancing societal impact
        Over the reporting period, UOA1 impact cases and research outputs have led to significant
 regional, national and international benefits to society. Exemplars are shown in Figure 9.




                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 ii) A fair and inclusive research environment
           Over the assessment period, we have devoted considerable time to analysis of our
 practices and culture and implemented significant organisational and operational changes to
 ensure equality of opportunity for all our staff and students. Our sector-leading approaches have
 been recognised with the award of a Gold Athena SWAN Charter Award in 2017 (Section 2C.1)
 and we have advanced plans for extending this accreditation to all of our remaining departments
 currently holding Silver awards.

 iii) A diverse and sustainable funding base
           Our research income over the reporting period has exceeded £230M. Funding has come
 from ~2,000 research awards (Section 3A.1) from 368 different funders including 113 companies
 (Figure 10). Research income has been sustained over time and support from pump-priming
 schemes and improved internal communication about funding opportunities has helped us to
 successfully diversify our funding portfolio by proportionally increasing contributions from industry
 and overseas governments and charities. New strategies for pump-priming and peer-reviewing
 research grant applications before submission (Sections 2A.4, 3A.2) have helped to improve
 UOA1 Research Council grant success rates. The most recent data available from these funders
 indicate that between 2013/14 and 2017/18 our national rankings for total awards improved from
 26th to 13th and 16th to 4th for the MRC and BBSRC respectively.

 iv) Enhanced integration of capabilities and supporting infrastructure
        Our research is underpinned by exceptional Shared Research Facilities (SRF) that operate
 under the auspices of LIV-SRF (Section 3B.5) and offer a comprehensive range of capabilities.
 During the REF period there has been significant strategic investment in imaging technologies
 and our support for multi-omic analysis has leveraged substantial EU and Research Council
 funding (Figure 11). We have also further expanded our existing expertise in ‘omics and systems
 biology through the recruitment of Kell and Goodacre to lead GeneMill and our new Centre for
 Metabolomics Research.




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 v) Enhancement of interdisciplinarity and mutually beneficial partnerships with the NHS, Public
 Health England, industry and academic institutions
         FHLS was reorganised in 2019/2020 to focus on areas of internationally recognised
 research strength within four new institutes and to increase critical mass in strategically important
 areas that align with University research themes (Advanced Materials; Personalised Health;
 Infectious Diseases; and Starting Well, Living Well, Ageing Well). This drives inter-Faculty
 collaboration and has created opportunities for the development of new interdisciplinary research
 areas to maximise impact via strategic appointments and investment.
           Researcher training represents an active area for developing and driving
 interdisciplinarity. Over the REF period, CASE and industry-funded PhD students from a diverse
 portfolio were registered in FHLS that were associated with UOA1 laboratories (Section 2B.1).
 Relationships with companies such as Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Gilead Roche, UCB, Eli Lilly, Novartis,
 Unilever, and GSK that were associated with these studentships were facilitated by the pump-
 priming schemes provided by FHLS for this purpose (Section 3A.2). Data sciences have cross-
 cutting relevance to UOA1 researchers; this is increasingly a compulsory component of
 postgraduate training as exemplified by all of our BBSRC-funded PhD students being enrolled on
 the SysMIC online and bespoke UoL systems biology training courses. This type of
 interdisciplinarity is also a fundamental feature of our MRC-funded North West Hub for Trials
 Methodology Research, and now the MRC/NIHR Trials Methodology Research Partnership.
           Each of the UOA1 research themes has established clinically aligned research centres to
 focus research activity and build partnerships with NHS and industry (Section 3B.4). An exemplar
 is Infection and Global Health where CEIDR co-ordinates research activity between UoL, LSTM,
 NHS Trusts and industry partners. Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is a priority area for CEIDR
 and, uniquely amongst the network of UK AMR Centres, Liverpool researchers focus on precision
 dosing of antimicrobials, supported by the long-standing cross-Faculty expertise in Pharmacology
 and Drug Safety Sciences. The Centre of Excellence in Long-acting Therapeutics (CELT) was
 established to build upon the long-standing and successful collaborative activity between UOA1
 and UOA9 staff working in precision medicine, infection biology and nanomedicine development.
 CELT was awarded £24.5M for the LONGEVITY project that aims to develop long-acting
 formulations for malaria and TB prevention, and a single-injection cure for hepatitis C. The project
 is creating drug-nanoparticle conjugates that will transform treatments by introducing long-acting
 injectable formats for diseases that currently affect 300 million people worldwide.

        Case study: LONGEVITY builds upon long-term inter-Faculty collaboration with colleagues
        in Chemistry to develop nanomedicines. Their work to conjugate anti-HIV drugs to
        nanoparticles has significantly increased the bioavailability of these drugs with the potential
        to reduce the manufacturing capacity required for effective global HIV treatment by 50%.

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1B.3. Future Strategic Aims and Goals for Research
         The impact of the re-organisation of FHLS started in 2019 and the associated
 improvements to our research environment, research culture and support structures will be
 realised over the forthcoming REF cycle. At the heart of the re-organisation was the goal to further
 improve the connections between discovery-led and clinical research, the NHS, public health
 partners and industry to tackle health inequalities and improve health outcomes across the
 Liverpool City Region and beyond. Importantly, the three clinical UOA1 research themes are
 retained as major focus areas of three (of the four) FHLS research institutes (Figures 1 and 2),
 and their strategic priorities and focus areas (Section 1B.1) remain relevant and supported for the
 next REF cycle.


 1C. RESEARCH IMPACT
          Key to our strategy is the requirement of staff to fully embed impact considerations into all
 stages of research, which is enabled by bespoke staff training and development. Impact is
 incentivised as part of the University’s core obligation to maximise the public benefits of research;
 it is embedded within our recruitment criteria, specifically recognised within our promotion
 structure and accounted for in our workload models. Our focused training and networking events,
 including the Impact Matters seminar series, raise awareness and encourage involvement from
 all staff from the earliest career stages. We have launched a new module delivered to all masters
 and first year PhD students which includes formal sessions on Public Understanding of Science
 and Making a Business out of Science.
          The Faculty Research and Impact Directorate promotes an active impact culture and
 environment, including coordinated support via a team of Institute-facing Impact Officers and
 Faculty-managed funds such as Impact Accelerator Awards. We have long recognised that
 significant investment is required to deliver high quality impact and we have invested heavily at
 each step in the impact ‘pipeline’, with the range and scope of support growing year on year
 (Figure 12). Our strategy to achieve impact extends well beyond those activities presented as
 formal impact cases and provides benefit to many stakeholder groups.




                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1D. POSITIVE RESEARCH CULTURE
 1D.1. University Commitments to an Open Research Environment
           We are committed to disseminating the outputs of our research and scholarship as widely
 as possible. All researchers commit to the University of Liverpool’s Open Access Publication
 Policy. The University acknowledges the benefits of open access publication in terms of greater
 visibility, potential for more rapid dissemination, and greater research impact. To support this, all
 author accepted manuscripts are required to be deposited in the University repository within three
 months of acceptance. Where Gold Open Access is required and cost is not covered by the funder,
 the University provides an Institutional Fund for Open Access that has helped to ensure that UOA1
 papers are open-access compliant. Staff within UOA1 are encouraged to place pre-prints of their
 work in appropriate repositories and the Institutional Repository is provided to facilitate open
 access to articles, data and other outputs.
 1D.2. Data Management, Storage and Security
         UOA1 subscribes to the University’s Research Data Management policy, which illustrates
 our commitment to maintaining the highest standards of rigour and integrity in research. The policy
 recognises that data collected during a research project is a key asset that will continue to yield
 benefits after the conclusion of the project. The University recognises its duty to protect the
 confidentiality of the personal research data in keeping with its responsibilities under the General
 Data Protection Regulation, and any research project that collects personal data must have formal
 ethical approval from the University. All UOA1 Principal Investigators are required to complete a
 data management plan (DMP) prior to the commencement of research projects. In the case of
 personal research data, the DMP is a required component of the application for research ethics
 review. Primary responsibility for the management of data produced during research activities lies
 with the Principal Investigator. When research is conducted with other institutions and independent
 researchers, all parties are required to agree to a plan for managing the data generated during the
 study.
 1D.3. Research Integrity and Compliance
         The University of Liverpool made a commitment in 2017 to follow the recommendations
 within the Concordat to Research Integrity. As part of that commitment, the University was one of
 the first 12 academic members of the United Kingdom Reproducibility Network, a peer-led
 consortium that aims to ensure the UK retains its place as a centre for world-leading research, by
 investigating the factors that contribute to robust research, providing training in research integrity
 and data management, and disseminating best practice. It includes representation from research
 councils, charities and major journals.
         We have established robust systems of oversight that have been successful in detecting
 malpractice and this has led to commensurate disciplinary responses and engagement with
 journals and funders about irregularities that have been identified. We are continually reflecting on
 our experiences and introducing further improvements that are intended to increase our ability to
 detect malpractice and mitigate its impact. For example, we are piloting a requirement to deposit
 all primary data and associated contextual information prior to publication into a read-only
 University archive that can be independently cross-referenced if the integrity of any data is
 challenged. We will also be piloting electronic lab notebooks (commencing Jan 2021) across FHLS
 for better data management and evaluation and instigating periodic research integrity audits.
         To ensure that staff are fully aware of their responsibilities, FHLS has a robust system of
 ethics support and a committee structure that supports good ethical practice across all areas of
 UOA1. The University provides online research integrity courses to provide a common foundation


                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for responsible research practices. Courses in research integrity, developed by the Epigeum
 consortium, are designed to give researchers an essential understanding of responsible research
 practices. Culturally, we foster a highly collaborative team approach to our science that minimises
 researchers working in isolation.
          To inculcate good practice from the beginning, Year 1 PhD students attend compulsory
 training workshops that focus on principles of data management, reproducible research, ethics
 and open science. Research ‘Away Days’ have also provided us with the opportunity to run
 institute-wide sessions on scientific fraud, their causes and their impact.
 1D.3.1. Clinical Samples
         Access to patients and human samples is essential for the research of most groups within
 UOA1. The Human Material Oversight Committee ensures compliance with Human Tissue Act
 regulations and the University’s Research Integrity Policies. The Faculty’s three research ethics
 committees consider research involving human participants, human tissues, and personal data.
 All ethics committee members have had Epigeum training, in-house ethics training is regularly
 offered and there are regular drop-in sessions organised by the University ethics team. University
 sponsorship of projects also ensures ethics oversight and the requirements for Good Clinical
 Practice training.
 1D.3.2. Pre-Clinical Research and In Vivo Experiments
        All UOA1 research is fully compliant with University, Home Office and relevant national
 and international regulations. The Facilities and Infrastructure Directorate co-ordinates support
 and expert review panels that approve proposals and oversee ongoing compliance with health
 and safety, genetic modification, animal welfare and ethical approval for their use. UOA1
 researchers have access to a range of experienced peers and former panel members, case
 studies, training sessions and courses to help them to prepare their applications for ethical or
 regulatory approval.




                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People
 2A. STAFFING STRATEGY AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT
 2A.1. Staffing Strategy
         Our strategy over the REF period has been to further develop and sustain research
 excellence in themes where we have significant critical mass of outstanding researchers and
 infrastructure (Table 2). ~30% of our return is comprised of staff recruited during the REF period.




 2A.1.1. Recruitment, Retention and Succession Planning
          FHLS has recruited extensively during the REF period, resulting in 148 new academic
 appointments (61 returned in UOA1). Our strategy is delivered by securing and developing the
 next generation of research leaders (33 were appointed to their first independent position); this is
 balanced by substantive senior appointments in order to provide leadership and mentoring, and
 by recognising emergent research leaders through promotion. A key priority throughout REF has
 been to increase the critical mass of clinical academics at all levels. Clinical academics
 represented ~30% of UOA1 staff at the start of REF; almost half of all new recruits have been
 clinicians, including outstanding leaders in Cardiovascular (Lip), Maternal and Child Health
 (Kenny, Hedrich) and Cancer (Ottensmeier).
          To ensure that we attract the widest possible pool of applicants we have an open and
 transparent recruitment policy; we advertise via a wide array of routes (e.g., University website,
 jobs.ac.uk, Nature, social media and professional networks such as WISE) and we have re-
 designed our internal and external facing websites to improve information on our working
 environment and policies.

        Case study: The effectiveness of our recruitment policy is evidenced by the success of
        new UOA1 staff. 61 staff recruited since 2014 currently hold £27.6M of external awards
        and generated 845 publications eligible for our return.

        All new lecturer-level academic appointments in our research institutes follow a 3+2 Year
 Tenure Track Fellowship (TTF) model. Applications for tenure for TTFs are reviewed at year three
 with confirmation of appointment being contingent upon successfully securing competitive external
 funding and making substantive research contributions. If required, up to two years of further
 salary funding is available to applicants to provide the opportunity to develop their tenure
 applications or to secure alternative employment. The TTF scheme has also been successfully
 used to attract externally funded research fellows that align with our strategic research priorities.

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


        Case study: Jo Fothergill represents an example of our successful initiatives for developing
        future research leaders. She leveraged successful PhD and post-doctoral periods in
        Liverpool to secure a competitive Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship in 2012 and a place
        on the University TTF scheme. Mentoring, support and financial investment associated
        with the TTF contributed to the establishment of a productive research programme
        in Infection and Global Health and the award of a Medical Research Foundation Fellowship
        in Respiratory Diseases. Fothergill secured tenure in 2016 as a Lecturer and
        was promoted to Senior Lecturer in 2018. She has received numerous accolades,
        including Young Scientist of the Year award by the European Cystic Fibrosis Society.


 2A.1.2. Clinical Academic Recruitment and Development
          The Clinical Directorate ensures that clinical academic research, training and development
 of the ~250 clinical academic and research staff at the University is co-ordinated and connected
 with FHLS strategy, and regional & global health priorities. Delivery is facilitated by the Liverpool
 Integrated Clinical Academic Training (ICAT) team overseen by the recently appointed Director,
 Paul May. ICAT is based on a joint strategy developed by the University, LSTM, NIHR, Health
 Education England Northwest and NHS Teaching Trusts and focuses on academic foundation
 training, academic clinical fellows (ACFs), clinical PhDs, and academic clinical lecturers (ACLs,
 who must hold a PhD on appointment). Allied Health Professional academics are also part of the
 programme. Specific support and mentoring are provided for each stage and progress is reviewed
 annually via academic and subsequent formal Annual Review of Competency Progression
 (ARCP). The academic ARCP that we have developed is considered an exemplar by Health
 Education England and is now being trialled in other locations. Clinical lecturers receive specific
 support through protected academic time and association with a successful research group that
 is overseen by the ICAT programme. Having identified that retention of talented ACLs to senior
 clinical academic posts is a priority, we have established a new post-CCT clinical fellowship
 scheme where the University and NHS co-fund fixed term (three-year) senior clinical fellowships.
 These fellowships are competitively offered at Consultant level to ACLs who are nearing
 completion of clinical training, and aim to support the development of externally funded,
 intermediate-level clinical fellowships that are precursors to applying for tenure. These have been
 piloted in departments focusing on Infection and Global Health and clinical Pharmacology and
 Therapeutics, with the first two fellows successfully going on to secure externally funded clinical
 fellowships. This is now an established activity.

        Case study: Our efforts to better understand the needs of ACFs has resulted in targeted
        support to enhance their opportunities for interactions with peers, mentors and advanced
        training, and led to 88% of ACFs progressing to PhD training, well above the national
        average of 50%. 100% of 20 NIHR ACFs have progressed to Wellcome or MRC PhD
        studentships.


 2A.1.3. Integration Between Clinical and Non-Clinical Researchers
          The research institutes are configured around thematic groupings comprising clinical and
 non-clinical scientists. Collaboration between clinical and non-clinical researchers is encouraged
 through joint student supervision, pump-priming and large centre/programme applications and the
 University-led Liverpool Health Partners. ~250 University clinical staff and several hundred current
 honorary academic and clinical research support appointments have created a strong network of
 clinical research interactions. These honorary and joint appointments are spread throughout our

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research institutes and they have access to offices and labs shared or co-located with their non-
 clinical colleagues that underpins our key aim (Section 1) of creating a better environment for
 fundamental and translational researchers working together. We have also invested in multiple
 new clinical and non-clinical appointments, at TTF and senior level, based within our overseas
 programmes.
 2A.1.4. Support for New Staff and Early Career Researchers (ECRs)
          All new staff receive tailored mentoring and financial support to transfer or initiate their
 research programmes in Liverpool. They are also protected largely from teaching and
 administrative duties to allow them to focus on establishing their independent research group.
 There is an active policy of supporting all ECRs through mentoring, prioritisation for internal
 research development awards and internal review of research grant applications. We run bespoke
 programmes of seminars and training workshops in areas such as grant writing and publication
 strategy specifically for ECRs. An example is the FLIGHT Initiative, which has supported
 fellowship applications from Infection and Global Health ECRs since 2014. This has delivered
 sustained growth in independent fellowship awards in this area, culminating in a success rate of
 36% by number and 30% by value (UKRI report 2018/19), positioning us top of the Russell Group.
          Our Wellcome Institutional Strategic Support Fund has provided £500K p.a. to ECRs to
 support our biomedical research strategy. We addressed the need for research training of clinical
 lecturers to allow them to prepare for external funding applications by the award of Clinical Short-
 Term Fellowships (6-12 months). For non-clinical researchers, we provided a strong platform for
 their transition to independence via funding the 3-5 year Tenure Track Fellowships that lead on to
 established posts and pump-priming funding (£10-25K) to generate data for external grant
 applications. In response to feedback from our ECRs about difficulties accessing wider training
 opportunities, in 2016 we redeployed one of our historical endowments to release £150,000 to
 establish the Johnston Researcher Development Fund to support research staff career
 development. To date, 24 UOA1 PDRAs have benefitted from this scheme. We have also provided
 PDRA Bridging Funding between external grants and we have sponsored a Faculty-wide ECR
 Leadership Group and Faculty workshops on how to apply for external fellowship funding. To date,
 our ISSF has supported 156 ECRs (54 UOA1 ECRs during the REF period).

         Case study: Our approaches have seen our ECRs thrive. They have collectively secured
         >£8M over the REF period. 100% of UOA1 ECRs reaching the end of their TTFs have
         progressed to a tenured position; seven of these have since been promoted: five to Senior
         Lecturer, one to a Readership and one to a Personal Chair (Concordat Principles 1, 2, 3).
 2A.2. Recognition and Value: Appraisal and Promotion
          All research and academic staff are formally appraised annually via a Professional
 Development Review (PDR) undertaken with a senior management representative from their
 institute; clinical academics also undergo an annual joint NHS/University appraisal. A Faculty
 Workload Allocation Model is currently being trialled building on comprehensive workload models
 already in place in different parts of the Faculty that will provide up-to-date data on activity to allow
 transparent and fair discussions based on core expectations. Promotion is based on a University-
 wide set of robust processes with clear criteria for each grade and type of position. Promotions for
 academic staff consider research, teaching and administrative contributions and assessment of
 professional practice. Promotions to all levels are solely contingent on ability and achievement
 and are not a quota system or influenced by the availability of central funding. Since
 2014, 103 UOA1 academic staff have been promoted, with 25 advancing to Professor, 13 to
 Reader and 28 to Senior Lecturer.


                                                                                                  Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2A.3. Implementation of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
          In recognition of the University's commitment to the Researcher Development Concordat,
 it has continuously held the European Commission’s HR Excellence in Research Award since
 September 2011, reviewed biannually. In July 2020, the University also became a signatory to the
 Revised Researcher Development Concordat. The University participates in both the Careers in
 Research Online Survey and Principal Investigator and Research Leaders Survey; analysis of the
 results informs the action plan associated with the HR Excellence Badge (Concordat Principle 7).
 Our staffing policy (section 2A.1) is based around recruiting and retaining excellent researchers
 (Concordat Principle 1). Our success in supporting staff depends upon clear and effective line
 management. Heads of Institute and Heads of Department undertake leadership development
 training through the University’s Leadership Framework Programme (validated by the Institute of
 Leadership and Management). The role of the Head of Department (HOD) is to mentor academic
 staff, conduct staff appraisals (section 2A.2), ensure equality in workload allocation, address EDI
 challenges, and to facilitate internationally competitive research and effective teaching (Concordat
 Principles 2, 3, 4, 6).
          Additional mentoring, open to all staff, is available via the University of Liverpool Mentoring
 Network which has over 700 staff registered from all roles/grades across the University. Notably,
 we developed the sector-leading PROSPER scheme that provides structured career and
 development support for PDRAs. Targeted support for junior and fixed-term contract staff is also
 available via the Career Coaching Scheme that gives participants access to mentors with subject-
 specific experience (Concordat Principles 3, 4, 5).
          The University is also a signatory to the Science Council’s Technician Commitment that
 ensures greater visibility, recognition, career development and sustainability for technicians across
 all disciplines. In line with our institutional action plan, the University has secured £25K for
 professional registration and training/development costs to support UoL technicians to participate
 in training courses to enhance their skills and that lead to formal professional accreditation with
 the Science Council (Concordat Principles 3, 4, 5). This has been matched with a further £15K
 from FHLS. We are about to introduce a Research Scientist and Technologist Pathway that will
 be better able to recognise the contributions and support the development of academic-related
 staff that manage our specialised research infrastructure and provide the data science capabilities
 that underpin UOA1 activity, as well as providing a recognised pathway for career advancement.
 We have also developed a technical skills matrix that defines roles and drives training and
 development, upskilling our technical workforce and future-proofing by identifying potential
 imminent skills gaps.
 2A.4. Support for Achieving Impact
          We appreciate that staff require time to develop effective impact, and the PDR process is
 designed to ensure that workload is managed to accommodate these activities. Consultancy
 activity is embedded within all of our research institutes with 144 staff engaging in consultancies
 worth £4.75M since 2014 (UOA1: £2.3M, 70 staff). Our staff also benefit from policies supporting
 flexible employment arrangements to support research engagement activities. To improve the
 success of our grant applications we have developed a programme of frequent focused workshops
 to highlight opportunities, promote collaborative networks and discuss ideas at early stages of
 development. These are supplemented by a peer-review process that is compulsory for research
 council and major charity funder applications and for example has seen an almost doubling in the
 success rates of MRC grant applications since 2014. Specific support is provided for developing
 impact. Impact Officers are embedded within FHLS to provide advice and support. During the REF
 period UOA1 staff have secured ~£1M from a wide range of internal funding schemes designed
 to pump-prime and develop their research applications, outputs and impact (Sections 1C & 3A.2).

                                                                                                 Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2B. RESEARCH STUDENTS
         FHLS registered 1,277 PhD (526 supervised by UOA1 groups), 52 MD (30 UOA1) and
 ~800 MRes students during the REF period. High-quality supervision of postgraduate (PGR)
 students is an expectation of all staff in UOA1 and discussed during the annual PDR process. In
 addition to academic staff, our supervisory teams include accredited honorary staff (e.g. NHS staff
 or industry collaborators) to ensure that students have the most appropriate guidance for their
 research.
         UOA1 researchers pioneered the 1+3 model of research training with the establishment of
 the first Wellcome four-year PhD programme in the UK. The Wellcome Physiology PhD
 Programme led to the establishment of a large Biomedical MRes programme (~80 students per
 year) where a series of mini projects are structured to give students exposure to different research
 techniques and/or different well-funded research laboratories. Entry into MRes is now spread
 across all institutes as the standard approach for recruitment and training of research students.
 The 1+3 model also underpins many of our other externally funded PhD programmes and ensures
 that research students are better informed and engaged when subsequently developing their
 project for PhD study.
 2B.1. PhD Programmes
         Substantial University investment (£2.1M 2013-2014 rising to £2.9M 2019-2020) has
 enabled all UOA1 research institutes to expand their PGR training. This internal funding has been
 used to lever matched funding from NHS Trust partners, RCUK, charity, industry and other
 sources. UOA1 academics have had access to externally funded PhD Programmes that have
 recruited 423 students during the REF period.
         These include a UoL/LSTM clinical PhD programme funded by Wellcome (26 students),
 an MRC Clinical Pharmacology PhD Programme (15 students joint with Manchester and industry)
 and non-clinical PhD programmes funded by Wellcome (30 students registered during REF), MRC
 (59 students), BBSRC (88 students), North West Cancer Research (16 students). We have
 proactively developed research links with overseas partner institutions to develop collaborative
 PhD studentships. These initiatives have seen 45 PhD students enrol with us with up to 50%
 funding contributed by UoL. We have also established an International PhD Bursary
 Scheme where we pay all tuition fees and offer these scholarships competitively to international
 students each year.

        Case study: The quality of the research training that we provide is exemplified by the
        Wellcome PhD Programme in Physiology where >80% of our graduates remain in science-
        related professions >10-years post-graduation, and 22 out of 98 graduates to date have
        achieved the equivalent of Principal Investigator status in academia or industry.
 2B.2. Strong and Integrated Research Student Culture
 2B.2.1. Research Integration of MDs and Clinical PhDs
         ICAT works closely with the Liverpool Doctoral College, PGR teams and research institutes
 to ensure that they recognise the challenges of successfully balancing clinical and research
 training. Regular surveys of student experience and progression now provide a stronger evidence
 base for forward planning by ICAT to facilitate progression to clinical lectureship positions. These
 have also resulted in the introduction of enhanced networking, peer and senior mentoring support
 for students. It is paramount that our trainees and ACFs are working on high quality research
 projects in excellent research environments. ICAT carefully scrutinises each proposed clinical


                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 academic post with speciality training programme directors and experienced academic
 supervisors to ensure the suitability/feasibility of projects and the quality of clinical and academic
 supervision.
 2B.2.2. Postgraduate Support and Oversight
         We have a highly structured system that supports students through their PhD and ensures
 100% compliance with progress monitoring; alerting us to any concerns so that we can be
 proactive in addressing any issues. All PhD students record a meeting with supervisors at least
 once per month on our electronic system (once per two months if part-time). Students complete
 an Annual Report detailing research and training progress over the previous year and plans for
 the coming year, which forms the basis for the annual meeting with independent assessors to
 review progress (Independent Progress Assessment Panel, IPAP). They also complete an online
 report that includes training, publications and any issues or concerns. In the rare instances where
 progress is not satisfactory, the Institute Director of Postgraduate Research (IDPR), who
 coordinates the IPAP, facilitates an additional review process and mediates between supervisors
 and students with support from their HOD. There is the scope to change the supervisory team in
 the event of a breakdown in the supervisory/student relationship.
 2B.2.3. Student Wellbeing
         We have established an annual Postgraduate Forum, which acts as a discussion forum
 around a different theme each year and a PGR Committee which meets three times each
 year. PGR students run a web survey annually and bring results to the Committee for
 discussion. Impact from this has included changing stipend payments to all PGRs in the University
 from every three months to monthly; and the inclusion of seminars about non-academic
 careers. Feedback from the Postgraduate Forum led to the establishment of a Pastoral Group for
 PhD students, a group of individuals drawn from all staff groups (professional services and
 academic) who are available to offer guidance and signpost students to appropriate support
 networks and structures within the University. In 2018 we were awarded a HEFCE/OfS PGR
 Mental Health and Wellbeing Catalyst project (£150k) which funded a full-time project manager
 and together with our other initiatives provided a multi-faceted support structure for PGR students
 including:
     • Recruitment and implementation of 'Peer Wellbeing Ambassadors'‚ to provide peer-to-peer
         support. PGR students have been recruited against a defined role description and attended
         a bespoke training programme, including Mental Health First Aid training in cross-cultural
         communication skills, bystander intervention, initial disclosure and managing boundaries.
         We now have 19 ambassadors across the Faculty and the scheme has been rolled out
         across the University.
     • New students are assigned a Yr2/3 PhD 'buddy' student to help them settle in during their
         early months.
     • Improvements to the induction of new PhD and MRes students starting in the 18/19
         academic year, consisting of induction day talks, highlighting the focus on PGR mental
         health and wellbeing. Those starting at other times of the year can also offer personal
         induction support from ambassadors.
     • Online mental health and wellbeing training modules for supervisors which has now been
         made mandatory and is referenced in the Code of Practice for PGR supervision.
     • Working in partnership‚ with the Science Council, Technician Commitment, and societies
         including the Royal Society of Biology, Royal Society of Chemistry and the Institute of
         Physics, we undertook a sector-wide survey‚ exploring the pastoral support technicians
         provide to students. This resulted in a sector wide webinar event and UoL issuing guidance
         to technical staff to support them in their pastoral roles.

                                                                                               Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Development of a 'Campus Wellbeing Map' for all staff and students, to clearly identify
        support services for PGR students launched at the University 'Wellbeing Week'‚ in May
        2019.
 2B.3. Successful Completion and Graduation
         Since 2014, 591 PhDs/MDs have been registered with UOA1 academics as primary
 supervisor (Figure 13) and 156 as secondary/tertiary supervisor. 85% of 99 full-time (FT) and all
 4 part-time (PT) students with primary UOA1 supervisors submitted their thesis on time (average
 3.6 years for FT). Total completion rates in FHLS are 88.6% for FT and 89.6% for PT PhDs/MDs;
 these rates compare favourably with the UKRI average of ~60%.




 2B.4. Preparation for Future Careers
        We aim to develop motivated, resourceful, and skilled researchers capable of driving
 world-class research independently and as part of a team. Training and development needs are
 assessed at the outset of their project and then reviewed annually; this comprises a detailed skills
 audit based on the VITAE Researcher Development Framework. Whilst the first job for >70% of
 our PhD students is a postdoctoral position in academia or industry, we recognise that most
 graduates will move into other science-related careers as time progresses. To ensure that our
 students are better informed about likely career paths and opportunities, we hold careers
 workshops where internal and external role models from relevant sectors describe their
 experiences. Our long-term PhD programmes have extensive alumni networks, for example the
 Wellcome Physiology PhD programme has ~100 graduates. Reciprocal arrangements with
 regional RCUK and Wellcome DTPs further increases access for all of our students to alumni
 networks and careers advice.


 2C. EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY
 2C.1. Engagement and Delivery
 2C.1.1. Athena SWAN
         The University gained an Athena SWAN Silver Award in 2016. UOA1 staff are based in
 two departments with Gold Athena SWAN Awards and 12 with Silver Awards. 33% of UOA1 Cat.
 A staff are female with 24 female Professors acting as role models/mentors. We have actively
 encouraged female colleagues to take visible and key roles within UOA1 research institutes and

                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the wider University. Effective strategies have included all leadership roles being subject to open
 competition, with detailed job descriptions and person specifications by internal advert, flexible job
 plans and the desirability to see female colleagues applying for senior roles is emphasised. We
 have active programmes to support the recruitment and development of the next generation of
 female research leaders. This includes focused support such as the Springboard Programme to
 support the personal and professional development of female ECRs and the Aurora Women in
 Leadership Programme to facilitate the transition of fixed-term and core-funded female
 researchers to more senior roles (Concordat Principles 3, 4, 5, 6). As a result of these initiatives,
 we have increased the proportion of female Professorial staff from 14% in 2014 to 25% in 2020,
 with further progress expected over the next REF cycle. The University also supports a number of
 networks and groups which promote and celebrate women in STEM subjects that UOA1 are able
 to participate in. These include the Female ECR Network and the Liverpool Women in Science
 and Engineering Society.
 2C.1.2. Equality and Diversity
          We are members of an inclusive institution and our staff benefit from policies and activities
 that lead from commitments made by the University as a member of the Athena SWAN Charter,
 the Disability Confident Scheme, the Race Equality Charter and as a Stonewall Diversity
 Champion. Awareness is facilitated via institute and departmental newsletters and local events.
 Compulsory training (renewable on a 3- to 5-year ongoing cycle) ensures that all staff are aware
 of their rights and responsibilities; these include Diversity and Equality Training and Unconscious
 Bias Training (Concordat Principle 6). Enhanced training such as Equality Impact Assessment
 Training is available for staff involved in ensuring delivery of policy. The University also supports
 and promotes a wide range of organisations including the Disability Network, BAME Network and
 LGBT Staff (2.5%, 15.0% and 2.9% respectively of UOA1 staff have self-identified as personally
 relevant protected characteristics) as well as a PGR student network.


 2C.1.3 Equality and Diversity in the REF submission
        The University’s REF Code of Practice has been incorporated into every stage of the Unit’s
 submission. Outputs were scored by a large and diverse group of academics. Each output was
 scored by at least two academics and initial scores were moderated by a group of experienced
 REF leads, all of whom had attended Faculty EDI and Bias Awareness training. Selection of
 outputs was manual following an algorithm to ensure optimal selections were made for all
 members of staff.

 2C.2. Employment Flexibility and Support
         All University staff can access a range of family friendly options, notably parental,
 compassionate, domestic and personal leave. The University’s flexible working policy allows
 individuals to vary or adjust their pattern of work based on their personal circumstances, including
 opportunities to work from home. This underpinned our resilience during the COVID lockdown
 where all non-COVID research activity and support transitioned to working from home. For
 postdoctoral and fixed-term contract staff, our research institutes cover the costs of
 maternity/paternity leave when other forms of funding are not available. ~25% of staff have
 returned from maternity/paternity leave to an agreed amended contract with reduced hours
 enabling satisfactory work-life balance. To further improve the ease and success of academic staff
 returning to work following maternity/paternity leave, £5K of flexible funds is available on
 application to support their research. Family Friendly Advisors (10 in FHLS) and support networks
 including the Carer’s Network, Parent’s Network and ECR Network provide information, guidance

                                                                                               Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and mentoring for staff. Employment flexibility also facilitates professional and research
 interactions, with FHLS staff able to join external organisations on joint appointments or full-time
 contracts to support collaborative or engagement activities, whilst retaining the opportunity to re-
 join the University as before.




                                                                                             Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3A. INCOME
 3A.1. Research funding
          Our research portfolio is built around multi-disciplinary translational medicine pipelines and
 clinically aligned fundamental research within each of our research priority areas. These areas
 together contribute to a diverse and sustainable funding portfolio with total awards during the REF
 period of ~£245M (Table 3) and a total research income (spend) of £230m. This was aided by
 strong funding from the NIHR (£35M), MRC (£31M), BBSRC (£13M), Wellcome (£15M), CRUK
 (£10M) and EU science funding schemes (£19M).




 Our research outputs have benefitted from >500 excellent externally funded PhD/MD students
 who have contributed to 862 publications during the REF period as first author, and 208 of the
 publications in our REF return. Postgraduate training awards totalling £5.3M give all UOA1 groups
 access to a large and diverse pool of well-funded students. University investment (£2.1M 2013-
 2014 rising to £2.9M 2019-2020) has been used to leverage significant additional funding from
 NHS Trusts, industrial, government and charity partners including: Wellcome UoL/LSTM Clinical
 PhD Programme (£10.2M, 26 students, held since 2007); Wellcome PhD Programme in
 Physiology (£4.5M, 30 students, held since 1994); BBSRC (£1.1M, 35 students); MRC (£908K,
 35 students); North West Cancer Research (£1.3M, 15 students); and EU-H2020 Innovative
 Training Network in kidney regenerative medicine (£1M, 8.6 students out of EU total of £4M, 12
 students).
 3A.2. Strategies for generating income
         We have invested in staff recruitment, including 61 new members of academic staff, to
 build critical mass, expertise and sustainability in priority areas, and support the infrastructure that
 underpins our research and to enhance technical provision. An external review of our clinical
 research strategy in 2017 recognised our success in strategically supporting our Centres of
 Excellence to help them to generate income that leads to significant outputs and impact (Table 1).
 This successful centre-based strategy has led us to establish new clinical research centres in 2018
 that address significant regional health priorities. This was supported by the recruitment of world-
 leading clinical academics including Professor Gregory Lip (Director, Liverpool Centre for
 Cardiovascular Science). These centres will provide the clinical research leadership and focus
 required to secure programme and centre grant funding and industry engagement that is
 necessary to establish sustainable translational medicine pipelines. We are also investing in
 underpinning technologies and have significantly strengthened our multi ‘omics and systems


                                                                                                 Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 biology capabilities through the appointment of Kell and Goodacre to lead the new Centre for
 Metabolomics Research and provide strategic direction for the GeneMill Synthetic Biology Centre.
          To help our clinical academics to develop collaborative research projects with basic and
 interdisciplinary scientists we established the Translational Research Access Programme (TRAP)
 that awards up to £100K to each of six projects per year. We were also awarded a £600K
 Wellcome Translational Research Partnership award in 2019 to help the pull through of our basic
 research into translational studies. We recognise the challenges in establishing clinical and
 clinically aligned basic science careers and Tenure Track Fellowships (TTFs) and the Integrated
 Clinical Academic Training Pathway provide solid foundations where ECRs receive extensive
 mentoring and support to prepare grant applications. Ten UOA1 TTFs have been appointed during
 the REF period with 100% of those in post for at least 18 months successfully securing external
 funding. To date, the University has received £6.25M of Wellcome Institutional Strategic Support
 Funding (ISSF) that has been used to develop career progression and bridging schemes such as
 Clinical and non-Clinical Fellow Support.

        Case study: In 2015 Daniel Neill received £20,000 ISSF non-Clinical Fellow Support that
        contributed to stabilising his position within the Institute of Infection and Global Health and
        enabled him to submit a successful application for a £0.8M Sir Henry Dale Fellowship and
        a £1.4M MRC grant as Co-Investigator to study the regulation of pneumococcal carriage
        and disease.

         To ensure that we are agile in the way we respond to funding calls, the University
 (Research, Partnerships and Development) and Faculty (Research and Impact Directorate) have
 dedicated professional services staff who support the breadth of the research lifecycle, including
 scoping and communicating opportunities, facilitating sandpit events, supporting research and
 fellowship applications, and organising peer review. To improve the success of our applications
 we have developed a programme of focused workshops to highlight opportunities, promote
 collaborative networks and discuss ideas at early stages of development. These are
 supplemented by an extensive peer-review process which starts with informal discussion with
 mentors and progresses through peer-review stages to final application. University mentors and
 peer-review panels are comprised of senior staff with specific experience with relevant funding
 bodies and schemes. An example of the benefit of this enhanced support can be seen with our
 success in securing funding for NIHR HPRUs, successful applications for BBSRC ALERT
 research infrastructure funding in every year of the REF period, as well as MRC success rates
 that have improved from 16% in both 2013/14 and 2014/15 to 18%, 33% and 26% in 2015/16,
 2016/17 and 2017/18 respectively.
         More generally, a wide range of targeted funding opportunities are available within the
 University giving academics the chance to test early ideas, explore partnerships and establish
 networks. Designated funds allow academics to develop proof-of-concepts and begin successful
 research projects. Pump-priming funds such as MRC Proximity to Discovery and Confidence in
 Concept funding (£615K, 26 awards), together with University Knowledge Exchange Awards
 (£154K, 20 awards) and the Enterprise Investment Fund (£211K, 7 awards) have helped UOA1
 researchers to generate essential data to establish translational networks and secure commercial
 partners to help advance ambitious clinically related projects. Developing these relationships is
 supported by Research Partnerships and Innovation (Section 4A.1) and through thematic
 translational organisations such as CEIDR that in partnership with LSTM provides £250K per year
 to pump-prime relationships with industry and academic organisations to advance drugs, vaccines
 and diagnostics towards market. We also recognise that the generation of high-quality outputs
 feeds directly into funding success and that this often relies on the recruitment of exceptional PGR


                                                                                               Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students. Here, we have invested (>£900K) co-funding PhD students on our 4-year DTP
 Programmes (Section 2B.1).

        Case studies: Since 2014, 32 UOA1 academics have shared ~£1M of funding to support
        knowledge exchange/translational activities. Investment that led to significant outcomes
        includes £40K CIC funding to Michael Griffiths in 2014 to develop a novel blood test for
        bacterial meningitis resulting in two patents and £1.7M of MRC/industry investment from
        Fast Track Diagnostics. Another example is £30K CIC funding to Aras Kadioglou in 2015
        to test the efficacy of a novel pneumococcal vaccine that resulted in £1.8M of Meningitis
        Now/MRC follow-on funding.
 3A.3. Equality and diversity
         Staff within UOA1 work within University institutes that hold Silver and Gold Athena SWAN
 Charter Awards. We have therefore developed robust systems for analysing our practices and
 culture and introduced significant organisational change to ensure equality of opportunity for all
 our staff and students. Schemes such as the University and Faculty’s Returner’s Funds and the
 Wellcome ISSF have supported 54 UOA1 individuals who have had career breaks or are at the
 early stages of a research career. Of relevance to infrastructure and facilities, the LIV-SRF
 Voucher Scheme gives subsidised access to core facilities. During the REF period, 224 such
 vouchers have been awarded, totalling ~£1M and leveraging a further ~£1M in pilot project
 funding. 123 of these vouchers were awarded to UOA1 staff. The scheme is particularly important
 for junior academics with limited available funding and 101 vouchers were awarded to 68 ECRs
 (51 to 32 UOA1 ECRs) to generate data for grant applications.


 3B. INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES
 3B.1. Campus redevelopment
         The University and NHS partners have been extensively redeveloping the biomedical
 estate so that clinically aligned groups are better co-located in purpose-built laboratories. This has
 resulted in a significant concentration of research groups into contiguous locations that has
 improved opportunities for collaboration, access to research resources and integrated support.
 Major examples are depicted in Figure 4.
 3B.2. Engagement with Clinical Partners and Specialist Clinical Research Facilities
         FHLS strategic planning has revolved around consolidating areas of research and clinical
 strength. Liverpool Health Partners (LHP) have been an important vehicle for improving
 collaboration, building clinical research capacity, resolving systemic barriers and coordinating
 strategic investment that improve clinical research and education delivery for the benefit of local
 patients. This is delivered via the Joint Research Service LHP-SPARK.

        Supporting impact: LHP-SPARK is a ‘one-stop shop’ for the full process from clinical grant
        applications through to study set. It supports researchers on clinical research activities
        including developing a grant application, research and NHS costing, sponsorship, study
        registration, set up, contracts and general research governance. An example of the
        benefits of this joined up approach was seen in how LHP oversaw the streamlining of the
        transfer of patient data between NHS Trusts and our clinical research coordinators that
        has removed the delays that impacted clinical trial establishment, recruitment and data
        analysis.



                                                                                               Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3B.2.1 Clinical Research Facilities (CRFs)
         NIHR funded CRFs at our partner NHS Trusts, Alder Hey and Liverpool University
 Hospitals, provide dedicated space, research nurses, support staff and data managers. They
 primarily support phase I-IV clinical trials and experimental medicine approaches to understand
 inflammation, infection, oncology and neurosciences. Clatterbridge Cancer Centre pioneered
 proton beam therapy for eye cancer and in 2014 created the UK’s first radiobiology research
 laboratory dedicated to proton beam therapy with reserved UOA1 researcher access to the
 Douglas Cyclotron to develop strategies for improving cancer treatment.
 3B.2.2 Clinical Trials Units
         The University has continued to further develop and consolidate its clinical research
 capability and infrastructure as part of the UK Clinical Research Collaboration (UKCRC)-
 Registered Clinical Trials Unit (CTU) Network. Following recommendations of an external review,
 in 2019 we launched the Liverpool Clinical Trials Centre (LCTC) - a single, fully integrated CTU
 created through a full-scale merger of the National Cancer Research Institute (NCRI)-accredited
 Liverpool Cancer Trials Unit (LCTU) and the Clinical Trials Research Centre (CTRC).
         The LCTC supports a large portfolio of clinical trials specializing in high-quality national
 and international early- and late-phase trials with linked translational studies. It has a strong track
 record of developing and delivering practice-changing studies and receives NIHR CTU Support
 Funding in recognition of its NIHR-funded portfolio which is one of the largest in the UK. The LCTC
 collaborates with local and national investigators to design, conduct, lead and analyse clinical
 studies to improve patient care. It also supports the development of other local networks including
 the Liverpool Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre (funded by NIHR and Cancer Research UK),
 the North West Surgical Trials Centre (funded by the Royal College of Surgeons and Cancer
 Research UK) and the MRC-funded North West Hub for Trials Methodology Research
 (NWHTMR). The success of the NWHTMR, part of the MRC Hub Network for ten years, led to
 Liverpool now leading the new MRC/NIHR Trials Methodology Research Partnership involving six
 UK and Irish research networks together with 25 universities.

        Supporting impact: The multicentre European Study Group for Pancreatic Cancer
        (ESPAC) led from Liverpool has conducted some of the biggest worldwide clinical trials on
        the disease. The latest to be reported (ESPAC-4) almost doubled the five-year survival
        rate to 29% versus standard treatment after surgery and has established gemcitabine and
        capecitabine as the new post-surgery treatment of choice for pancreatic ductal
        adenocarcinoma (Palmer).
 3B.2.3 GCP for clinical trials
         The University has invested £10M in a suite of co-located GCP laboratories that link with
 Liverpool academic strengths in human disease and biology, and discovery medicine together
 with the Clinical Trials Units to deliver a fully integrated service for developing and testing new
 therapeutic agents and treatment strategies. The Bioanalytical Facility houses a bespoke
 proteomics facility that measures drug and metabolite concentrations for PK-PD analysis to
 assess drug efficacy and toxicity. They support Phase 0-1 first-in-man clinical trials through to
 large multicentre randomised trials and work closely with our drug safety and precision medicine
 research clusters (section 3B.4.2). The GCPLab comprises a suite of cytology, biochemistry,
 molecular biology and histology equipment and validated protocols for analysis and storage of
 samples derived from Phase I-IV clinical trials of anti-cancer agents.




                                                                                                Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Supporting impact: GCPLab has supported the identification of biomarkers such as TSP1
        and ENT1 that are improving the early identification and stratified treatment of pancreatic
        cancer (Costello; Greenhalf). The Centre for Antimicrobial Pharmacodynamics has
        developed preclinical and early phase PK-PD models for new antibiotics to determine
        suitable population/individualised dosing regimens. They have also contributed to the
        better use of existing antibiotics, such as use within the NHS of Fosfomycin as a critical
        last-resort agent for treatment of multidrug-resistant bacterial infections (Hope).
 3B.3. Biobanking resources
          The University has 16 NHS REC approved Research Tissue Banks and ~400 biological
 collections of human samples totalling ~1 million stored samples. The Liverpool University Biobank
 was established in 2017 to initiate the consolidation of all new biobanking under one management.
 It currently offers access to archives of ~18,500 paraffin, ~23,000 fresh/frozen and ~7,000
 plasma/serum samples suitable for immunohistochemistry, generating tissue microarrays, genetic
 analysis and biomarker profiling. Consent is centrally coordinated across four contributing local
 NHS Trusts to facilitate researcher access. Specialist biobanks e.g. lung cancer (~13,000
 samples), leukaemia (~30,000 samples), pancreatic cancer (~10,000 samples), head and neck
 cancer (~12,000 samples), ocular oncology (~4,000 samples), musculoskeletal (~12,500
 samples) and full access to NHS partner biobanks such as the Walton Research Tissue Bank
 (~2,500 brain-derived samples) give our researchers access to high-quality curated samples,
 including those derived from clinical trials, with extensive multimodal testing to facilitate patient
 stratification and longitudinal disease monitoring.

        Supporting impact: Access to large, historic local collections of head and neck (H&N)
        cancer enabled UOA1 Cancer Medicine clinical researchers to demonstrate that recent
        increases in H&N cancer incidence are associated with human papilloma virus (HPV)
        infection. This has resulted in government policy changing to offer HPV vaccination to
        teenage boys (impact case UoL42HPVcancer).
 3B.4. Specialist Research Clusters and Research Resources
 3B.4.1 Infection and Global Health Research Clusters
         The Centre of Excellence in Infectious Diseases Research (CEIDR) engages with LSTM
 and industry partners to deliver the next generation of diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines. The
 Centre for Global Vaccine Research (CGVR) (Co-Directors: French & Kadiloglou) was established
 in 2016 to build on a strong track record of international clinical vaccine research in Liverpool and
 enhance Infection and Global Health academic critical mass and the co-ordination of specialist
 research resources required for vaccine research. The CGVR is developing novel vaccines and
 investigating ways to improve on current vaccine performance. Local vaccine providers (Seqirus,
 Med-Immune) and access to specialist infrastructure including containment level 3 laboratories,
 pre-clinical animal facilities and downstream imaging and omic analytical pipelines (section
 3B.2.1-3) have been integrated into the CGVR to deliver vaccines that can be trialled with
 international partners in Africa and Asia. The University leads two recently renewed NIHR funded
 (£8M) HPRUs focused on Emerging and Zoonotic Infections (Director: Solomon) and
 Gastrointestinal Infections (Director: Cunliffe). These national units capitalise on our world leading
 expertise in infection research to protect UK public health and their specialised infrastructure and
 management underpinned our rapid re-positioning to address COVID-19 research questions.

        Supporting impact: For over 20 years UoL has led a collaborative research programme
        describing rotavirus disease burden and evaluating the efficacy, effectiveness and impact


                                                                                               Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        of rotavirus vaccines in Malawi (Cunliffe). This has informed WHO global vaccine policy
        and has resulted in the implementation of infant immunisation schedules in 95 countries
        since 2009. Recent analysis revealed that worldwide child deaths from rotavirus have more
        than halved since 2009 to ~200,000 per year with major impacts in low and middle-income
        countries (impact caseUoL41RotavirusSSA).
 3B.4.2 Drug Safety and Precision Medicine Research Clusters
          The Centre for Drug Safety Sciences (CDSS) (Director: Pirmohamed) has established a
 critical mass of precision medicine academics, infrastructure and facilities to investigate adverse
 drug reactions. The Bioanalytical Facility (section 3B.2.3) together with wider omics support
 (section 3B.5.3) facilitates biomarker and drug/metabolite bioanalysis. Informatics expertise
 (section 3B.2.2 and 3B.5.3) integrates different omics datasets and modelling to predict drug
 effects, inform prognosis and suggest routes for stratifying patient treatment. The Wolfson Centre
 for Personalised Medicine (Director: Pirmohamed) integrates clinical sample collection,
 pharmacogenomics analysis and data science support. Approximately 60,000 patient and control
 DNA samples are currently archived for research into treatments for epilepsy, asthma and cardiac
 disease and side effects associated with drug-induced liver injury, antibiotics and antiretroviral
 therapies. The centres are supported with £11M of MRC funding and have leveraged £14M in
 further support from RCUK, EU and industry and played leading roles in major IMI awards: Mip-
 DILI, Trans-Bioline, Trans QST, Web-RADR and ARDAT.

        Supporting impact: The FUTURE Initiative project was established in 2015 with £1M of
        University pump-priming funding to develop a panel of healthy volunteers and patients
        genotyped for polymorphisms in drug metabolising and transporter genes and consented
        to be contacted about recruitment into genotype-guided early phase clinical studies. More
        than 3,000 volunteers have been recruited to date with ongoing expansion to include 1,000
        patients with renal and hepatic disorders that also represent an area of unmet need for
        recruitment to industry trials.
 3B.4.3 Centre for Integrated research into Musculoskeletal Ageing (CIMA)
         Supported with funding from the MRC and Arthritis UK (now Versus Arthritis), CIMA
 (Director: Jackson) was established in 2012 and renewed in 2017 to bring together Life Course
 and Chronic Disease clinicians and academics in Liverpool, Sheffield and Newcastle researching
 the effects of ageing on the musculoskeletal system. Clinical and pre-clinical imaging infrastructure
 (section 3B.5.2) together with the Biomechanics Research Suite offers bi-planar x-ray, video
 imaging and gait analysis that allows a full range of analysis from the molecular and genetic
 determinants through to in vivo characterisation of the consequences of disease and ageing-
 related musculoskeletal dysfunction.
 3B.4.4 Materials Innovation Factory (MIF)
          The MIF provides flexible space for Liverpool academics and industry partners to co-locate
 for research residencies with access to a nationally leading range of analytical and materials
 science robotics infrastructure. This interdisciplinary translational environment has been
 particularly important for UOA1 academics Owen and Liptrott working on anti-HIV, anti-cancer and
 anti-malarial nanomedicines together with UOA8 Chemistry colleagues. During the REF period,
 this activity has resulted in two antiretroviral nanomedicines in Phase 1 clinical trials and >70 drug
 delivery patents. This strong track record has led to the successful establishment of the
 multidisciplinary Centre of Excellence in Long-acting Therapeutics (CELT) with £24.5M of Unitaid
 investment that aims to develop novel nanomedicines that address global health challenges.


                                                                                               Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3B.5. Provision of underpinning core research facilities
          Twenty-three shared research facilities (SRFs), ~90 expert support staff and >£45M of
 specialised equipment deliver access to a wide range of high-quality technology and infrastructure
 for all of our research groups. Large facilities and strategic investment in all of our technology
 areas is overseen by LIV-SRF. LIV-SRF ensures efficient utilisation and long-term sustainability
 of core technologies whilst maintaining technological competitiveness that underpins academic
 excellence. LIV-SRF also inform wider Faculty investment in research equipment to ensure that it
 is feasible, sustainable, optimally located, accessible and targeted to areas of unmet need,
 allowing us to maintain our access to cutting-edge technology. For example, in 2018 LIV-SRF
 directed University investment of £1.5M into the Liverpool Magnetic Resonance Imaging Centre
 to purchase an MRI scanner to ensure long-term availability of this important clinical research
 platform. The success of our coordinated approach to the development and management of
 research facilities and equipment is also evidenced during the current REF period by eight
 successful BBSRC ALERT bids to purchase genomics, proteomics and imaging equipment, and
 a successful MRC Clinical Research Infrastructure bid to purchase NMR and Helios Mass
 Cytometry equipment (£5M with £1M University contribution).
        Supporting impact: The LIV-SRF Voucher Scheme subsidises access for new academic
        appointments, ECRs, research fellows and unfunded pilot research projects. £1M invested
        into the voucher scheme over the REF period has generated a 23-fold return on investment
        through seeding further research grant income.

 Several core technologies and large facilities have been particularly important for underpinning
 research and impact within UOA1 as follows:
 3B.5.1 Biomedical Services Unit (BSU)
         The £45M BSU was commissioned in 2011 and occupies approximately 9,300 m2,
 including laboratory, surgery and procedure rooms and biological containment facilities for PC III
 organisms. The unit can house 24,000 mice and 7,500 rats in HEPA filtered individually ventilated
 cages with constant 24/7 monitoring of environment, automated watering and configurable feeding
 systems. All animal work at the University is overseen by the BSU including the longitudinal
 imaging and animal husbandry facilities within The Centre for Pre-Clinical Imaging (section
 3B.5.2).

        Supporting impact: The state-of-the-art Containment Level 3 facilities underpin our
        Infection and Global Health research. For example, the infection biology and treatment of
        >50 infectious agents (including COVID-19, Japanese Encephalitis Virus, Tuberculosis
        bacteria and Trypanosome parasites) have been investigated within the BSU since 2014.
 3B.5.2 Imaging and cytometry
          Our extensive array of infrastructure and associated protocols allow cross-platform
 correlative imaging from in vivo whole animal and patient imaging down to the nanoscale. Expert
 technical, image analysis and method development support are available in all imaging facilities
 for all clients. Liverpool Magnetic Resonance Imaging Centre (Siemens 3T MRI scanner) and the
 Centre for Preclinical Imaging (CPI) (Bruker 9.4T MRI scanner) provide clinically aligned
 researchers with full-time access to state-of-the-art magnetic resonance imaging and one of the
 most comprehensive and sensitive range of small animal imaging modalities available nationally.




                                                                                           Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Supporting impact: The University hosted the cross-council UK Regenerative Medicine
        Platform Safety and Efficacy Hub until 2018. Researchers within Liverpool developed novel
        multimodal imaging strategies to permit more accurate monitoring of kidney and liver
        architecture and function to allow evaluation of stem cell-based therapies. The CPI is also
        the lead hub in the £4M EU-wide kidney regenerative therapies PhD training network.

         The Cell Sorting Facility offers up to 15 parameter fluorescence-activated cell sorting
 (FACS) and the first Helios Mass Cytometer to be installed in the UK. The Centre for Cell Imaging
 provides a focal point for advice, training and imaging provision with seven confocal microscopes
 including Light-sheet, AFM, and Photothermal microscopes. In addition, a distributed array of
 FACS and microscopes are located with specialist research groupings throughout the Faculty. An
 example is the co-location of four high-performance confocal microscopes including super-
 resolution and fast FLIM/FRET/TIRF systems with the Biomedical Electron Microscopy Unit where
 they drive the generation of 4* outputs relying on correlative light and EM imaging and 3D-EM
 analysis.

        Supporting impact: The quality of our imaging facilities attracts world-leading external
        research groups. For example, correlative light and 3D-EM imaging generated the most
        comprehensive ultrastructural analysis to date of the human genome during cell division
        (Earnshaw (Edinburgh), Prior).
 3B.5.3 Multi-Omic technology
         The Centre for Genomics Research houses ~£4M of next-generation sequencing, single
 cell sequencing and informatics infrastructure that has played a key role in our infection research
 to map the spread and evolution of Zika, Ebola and COVID-19. GeneMill Synthetic Biology Lab
 established with £4M of BBSRC investment offers rapid high-throughput construction and testing
 of synthetic DNA constructs used for genome editing, protein design and expression. The Centre
 of Proteome Research operates 12 mass spectrometry platforms that support a wide range of
 protein identification and quantitative applications. Specialised proteomics facilities are also
 embedded in research clusters focused on drug safety, stratified medicine and antimicrobial
 development (sections 3B.2.2 & 3B.4.2). The Liverpool Metabolomics Facility offers mass
 spectrometry and NMR-based metabolite analysis together with expert academic insight
 reinforced in 2018 by new Chair appointments (Goodacre and Kell) and £1.8M (MRC, EPSRC)
 funding during the REF period to purchase a new 700MHz spectrometer and upgrade the 800MHz
 NMR. The Computational Biology Facility has been the focus of significant strategic investment
 since 2014 (eight new staff, £0.5M redevelopment) to address the increasingly sophisticated data
 science needs of our clinically aligned researchers.
 3B.6. Shared use of research infrastructure
        All of our equipment and facilities are openly accessible to external users on a cost
 recovery and/or collaborative basis. Formal reciprocal agreements coordinated by LIV-SRF have
 been agreed with regional HEIs and NHS partners to provide favourable access terms. Staff in
 UOA1 engage with partners across the N8 Universities in asset sharing. We encourage cross-HEI
 usage of our extensive facilities, for example: the Centre for Genomics Research has collaborated
 with over 250 different institutions; imaging platforms including the Centre for Cell Imaging and
 Biomedical EM Unit have published with academics from >100 external academic institutions; and
 the Materials Innovation Factory is a leading member of a European network of nanotechnology
 laboratories.



                                                                                            Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3B.7. Library and Research Computing Infrastructure
         The University continues to invest in its libraries such that we subscribe to all of the national
 NESLi2 “big deal” site licences for journals. Liverpool Elements software together with Library
 Research Support Officers help co-ordinate long-term research data management and open
 access research output. Data networking is critical for UOA1 research activity and the University
 have a rolling programme of investment (~£1.6M since 2014) that provides ≥10 gbit/s network
 access; the University also work closely with Net North West which manages our wide area
 network connections and our high-speed resilient links to JANET. Our recently appointed,
 inaugural Head of Research Computing for FHLS is building a Faculty-wide Research Computing
 strategy, investment plan and service delivery roadmap to enhance provision in the coming years
 and support our strategic objective of growing our data science capabilities. Advanced research
 computing facilities, supporting data science underpinning our clinical research, have received
 significant investment during the REF period (£1.7M total). This includes 2 high-performance
 computer clusters with 4,200 and ~3,000 freely accessible cores and ~700 TB of storage to
 support analytical workflows. There is space and power to house project-specific hardware and
 we can easily burst onto AWS or Azure cloud resources to improve resilience. We also have a
 strategic partnership with the STFC-funded Hartree Centre at Daresbury enabling staff to access
 petascale high-performance computing facilities and computer science expertise. A team of
 support staff help researchers take full advantage of these facilities including helping to install and
 tune computational packages.




                                                                                                  Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4A. COLLABORATIONS, NETWORKS AND PARTNERSHIPS
          UOA1 staff work extensively with partners at national level and across the world, including
 research institutes, universities, industry, governments and foundations (Figure 14). Our
 partnerships are focused on developing new opportunities for research, including a commitment
 to staff and researcher mobility. The Faculty has established a number of key strategic alliances
 to further its research and training strategies at both national and international levels and have
 enjoyed considerable success in
 securing and participating in
 major multi-centre awards. This
 is exemplified in postgraduate
 training, where we have 14
 international DTPs and our large
 BBSRC and MRC funded DTPs
 involve successful long-term
 partnerships       with   LSTM,
 Newcastle, Durham, Sheffield
 and Leeds universities (section
 2B.1). Similarly, our specialist
 research centres and facilities
 are all underpinned by a diverse array of well-established national and international research
 collaborations (described in section 3B and below).
 4A.1. Enabling and facilitating collaboration
        Strategies to facilitate collaboration at UoL are developed and delivered within the
 Research Partnerships and Innovation (RPI) directorate, via the Research and Partnerships
 Development (RPD) and the Industrial Strategy and Consultancy (ISC) teams. RPD focus their
 support on major research themes at UoL to build critical mass, to bring together diverse academic
 communities, to proactively develop new collaborations and to provide a means to unlock new
 research opportunities. They support PIs to hold events, workshops, run pump-priming schemes
 and sandpits and provide structured interdisciplinary networking sessions to generate new
 research ideas and collaborations. ISC focus their support on developing academic-industry
 collaborations. Internal pump-priming schemes overseen by RPI to support collaboration include
 the Overseas Development Agency Seed Fund that provides up to £10K for research in low-to-
 middle income countries (~£720K for FHLS academics since 2016); the Enterprise Investment
 Fund (£800K University-wide funding since 2010); the Industrial Strategy Fund that promotes
 partnerships that benefit productivity in the UK and wider world (£1.3M University-wide funding
 since 2017); Knowledge Exchange and Impact Vouchers (~£550K for FHLS academics since
 2009). Many of these funds specifically prioritise ECRs in recognition of our awareness and
 commitment to support ECRs. In 2020, we established PROSPER, a major £4.4M strategic project
 (together with the Universities of Manchester and Lancaster) to develop effective mechanisms of
 support for PDRAs within academia, enhancing their career opportunities.
 4B. ENGAGEMENT AND IMPACT
 4B.1. National and international collaborative networks
 4B.1.1. Academic, NHS and clinical networks
        LHP (Section 1A.2) is a major driver of regional clinical academic strategy and
 coordination. Liverpool leads the HDR North consortium (Director: Pirmohamed) that enhances

                                                                                             Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and leverages access to large-scale health data and analysis to understand the causes of disease
 and inform treatment strategies. It played an important role in our COVID-19 response contributing
 to ISARIC-CCP, RECOVERY, COG-UK and SAGE. Our centres in Infection (CEIDR, CELT,
 CGVR, NIHR HPRUs in Emerging Infection and Zoonoses), Life Course (CIMA, LCCS, MRC
 Hub for Regenerative Medicine), Cancer (LCRI, LCTC, ECMC) and Pharmacology (CDSS,
 Wolfson Centre for Personalised Medicine) are focal points for collaborative engagement with
 national and international clinical networks and industry. Through the Malawi-Liverpool-
 Wellcome Trust Clinical Research Programme in collaboration with LSTM and the Malawi
 Ministry of Health, we address major infectious diseases affecting the population of Malawi and
 other LMICs.
 4B.1.2. Interdisciplinarity and industry engagement
          During the REF period, we have developed and enhanced our links with UK and
 international industrial partners, both as collaborators and as advisors. This is evidenced by
 £29.3M of UOA1 industry-associated grant funding (including £5.5M of Innovative Medicines
 Initiative funding). In addition to Faculty support teams and internal funding that promotes industry
 engagement (section 4A.1), the University has invested >£80M since 2014 (together with industry
 and government partners) to establish flexible multidisciplinary space across campus where
 industry researchers can be based to benefit from the outstanding infrastructure and expertise
 that we have available to drive translational outputs and collaborations. This strategy is
 exemplified by the Materials Innovation Factory (MIF; section 3B.4.4, established in 2017) that
 supports UOA1 nanotechnology and nanomedicines outputs (Owen and Liptrott). Our research
 centres and facilities (section 3B) also act as hubs for interdisciplinarity and engagement with
 industry. For example, Liverpool has the largest concentration of public sector R&D expertise in
 infectious diseases in the UK and this attracts significant industry-associated funding and
 collaboration (section 3A.1). CELT (section 1B) builds on our strong nanomedicines track records
 and interdisciplinary collaborations between UOA1 and UOA8 academics to develop new drugs
 that target infectious diseases affecting >300 million people per year globally, whilst CEIDR
 includes industry partners to develop strategies to mitigate anti-microbial resistance.

        Case study: The NW England MRC Fellowship Scheme in Clinical Pharmacology and
        Therapeutics is a partnership between the Universities of Liverpool and Manchester
        together with Novartis, Eli Lilly, Roche and UCB Pharma to develop clinical scientists able
        to bridge across academia, industry and health services. To date, it has recruited 13 clinical
        fellows who have worked on a diverse range of projects related to Drug Safety, Stratified
        Medicine and Systems Pharmacology.
 4C. WIDER CONTRIBUTIONS TO SOCIETY
 4C.1. Wider engagement with diverse communities and the public
         We have vibrant and extensive public engagement programmes co-ordinated through our
 research centres, institutes, and the Faculty, with a number of posts exclusively focused on public
 engagement with research. Many of our major research centres and staff members also have
 active presences on major social media platforms to publicise our activities. Work within public
 engagement is supported by the Faculty Public Engagement Grant Scheme which is open to all
 staff and postgraduate research students. Grants of up to £2,000 are available, and each year the
 Faculty awards between £10-14K. The Faculty also runs a variety of Public Engagement training
 events for staff and students including designing hands-on activities, video-making and
 communication workshops run by external science communication professionals. To support and



                                                                                              Page 35
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reward staff who organise both public engagement and involvement initiatives, the Faculty holds
 a yearly showcase event with prizes awarded for both categories.
 Public Engagement activities include:
     • ‘Meet the Scientists’ events at the World Museum, Liverpool that engage over 6,000
         visitors annually.
     • Festivals: Cheltenham, Manchester and Edinburgh Science Festivals; Big Bang Fair;
         Royal Society Summer Science Exhibition; Pint of Science Liverpool (an international
         festival that sees scientists take to pubs to talk to the public about their research, ~500
         members of the public attend annually).
     • Interactive stands at many Merseyside hospitals to celebrate the NHS’s birthday and mark
         World Cancer Day.
     • A Continuing Education Cancer Course developed and piloted in 2019.
     • Open house events, lab visits for schools, organisations and members of the public (weekly
         events across FHLS). School visits and guest classes by members of staff and students.
     • Post-COVID virtual events including Scouse Science (monthly starting June 2020, ~35k
         views) and Liverpool Responds, (bi-weekly starting June 2020, ~39k views).
 4D. CONTRIBUTION TO DISCIPLINE
 4D.1. Sustainability and interdisciplinarity
         The sustainability of our discipline depends upon our ability to communicate its
 value/relevance, and to contribute solutions to problems that affect the lives of individuals around
 the world. Solutions to global challenges require increasingly multidisciplinary approaches and
 through our network of collaborators we are leading on projects to deliver tangible impact. We
 place a major focus on disseminating research impact to stakeholder groups, industry and the
 public. Impact lies firmly at the heart of the University’s strategy and resources allocated to impact
 have grown year on year throughout the REF period. A number of support mechanisms, in the
 form of impact leads, local impact officers and pump priming funds have been put in place over
 the last few years, culminating in the Making an Impact Framework; a series of activities allowing
 researchers at every career stage to build a tailor-made programme to maximise research outputs
 based on their own research impact needs, ambitions and interests. The impact of our research
 extends well beyond those activities presented as formal impact cases and provides benefit to
 both stakeholders and the wider public.
 4D.2. Responsiveness to national and global priorities
         UOA1 academics are all aligned within research themes that reflect national and
 international grand challenges. At a national level Liverpool is one of 24 strategic members of the
 Northern Health Science Alliance and one of eight strategic members of the N8 Research
 Partnership (2015-2020). N8 is a collective of the most research-intensive Universities in the North
 of England joint funded (£16M) by participating universities and HEFCE to maximise the impact
 of our research, promote collaboration and deliver innovative research capabilities. The re-
 organisation of FHLS has resulted in significant investment in programmes to address regional
 health inequalities. Furthermore, our significant critical mass and success in global health and
 anti-microbial research (sections 3A.1, 3B.2.3 & 3B.4.1) has a demonstrable record of being
 acutely responsive to emergent global health priorities (e.g., Zika, Ebola, COVID-19, antimicrobial
 resistance). This has included relocation of researchers to directly engage at the sites of
 outbreaks, such as our work with the European Mobile Laboratory in Guinea and Sierra Leone in
 2014/2015 to aid with Ebola diagnosis and tracking of virus evolution.




                                                                                               Page 36
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4D.2.1 COVID-19

         Our response to COVID-19 demonstrated our agility in repurposing our extensive
 infrastructure and staff resources to enable nationally leading contributions and research impact
 as the pandemic developed. The University, LSTM and the NHS established a city-wide Liverpool
 STOP-COVID initiative that has allowed cohesive, rapid and scaled responses across the
 research pipeline. Liverpool STOP-COVID is contributing to 13 NIHR Urgent Public Health studies
 and UOA1 academics have project lead roles (see case studies). We played a leading role in the
 introduction and monitoring of lateral flow testing and ongoing health surveillance, with prominent
 roles in public health communication (Solomon, Semple). We contributed to key government
 advisory committees (Semple: NERVTAG, SAGE), NIHR Co-Leadership of the National Speciality
 Group for Infectious Diseases and membership of the UPH Committee (Hope), and MHRA
 Pharmacovigilance Committee Chair (Pirmohamed). The ranking of the North-West Coast Clinical
 Research Network in infectious diseases improved significantly, moving from the lowest tertile to
 6th position nationally and by June 2019 following the first national lockdown UoL ranked 3rd
 behind Oxford and UCL for number of UKRI COVID grants. £1.2M of funds were repurposed from
 UoL, LSTM, NIHR and regional health charities to fund 22 projects that seeded ~£16M of grant
 income and impact via AGILE, ISARIC, PRONTO, COVID-CNS, and CCP-Cancer. These seed
 funds were also invested internationally to support the development and establishment of COVID
 diagnostics in Malawi.

 Case studies: ISARIC (Co-Lead: Semple) has played a national role in coordinating COVID clinical
 data and sample collection and analysis. AGILE (Khoo) is a world-first for phase I evaluation in a
 platform trial that allows simultaneous testing of multiple potential treatments in a pandemic.
 COVID-LIV (French) is studying COVID spread within the community and households. These
 projects are supported by an extensive UoL genomics infrastructure that has sequenced a large
 proportion of the coronavirus genomes profiled in the UK.


 4E. INDICATORS OF WIDER INFLUENCE
 For Cat. 1A academics surveyed in 2019/2020:
    • 51% have served on national (research council or similar) or international grants
         committees, 60% on learned societies, 40% on scientific advisory boards and 37% on
         professional bodies.
    • 53% have served on journal editorial boards.
    • 55% have participated in international conference organisation.
    • 64% have engaged with industry through research or advisory capacities and 20% hold
         patents.
    • 65% have engaged with non-academic users of research and 43% have incorporated PPI
         into their research.
 Specific examples are described below that illustrate the range of activities undertaken by our
 academics.
 4E.1. Learned societies, prestigious research bodies and health organisations
        Fellows: Royal Society (Dockray), Academy of Medical Sciences (Burgoyne, Dockray,
 Park, Pirmohamed, Wray), Institute of Physics (Hasnain), Royal Society of Chemistry (Goodacre,
 Hasnain, Yates, Eyers), NIHR Senior Investigators (Carrol, Lip, Pirmohamed, Solomon, Sutton),
 RAEng/Leverhulme Trust Senior Fellow (Williams). Academic Vice-President of Royal College of



                                                                                            Page 37
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Physicians (Toh), President of the Bone Research Society (Gallagher). Non-executive director of
 NHS England (Pirmohamed).
 4E.2. Major research prizes
       NIHR/Royal College of Ophthalmologists Researcher of the Year 2018 (Kaye), European
 Pancreatic Club Gold Medal (Halloran), International Liver Cancer Association Nelson Fausto
 Award (Johnson).
 4E.3. Contributions to major advisory bodies




        Supporting impact: Greg Lip is a member of the executive steering committee of the
        European Society of Cardiology (ESC) EuroObservational Research Programme on Atrial
        Fibrillation (EORP-AF), defining the epidemiology and management of AF in Europe.




                                                                                        Page 38
