Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Sussex

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 9: Physics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Department of Physics and Astronomy (P&A) at University of Sussex (Sussex) prides itself
 as a highly collegiate and inclusive environment for exceptional research. We have a distinctive
 profile specialising in particle physics, novel quantum technologies and extragalactic
 astrophysics and cosmology. We nurture our researchers, especially our early career staff. Our
 main strategic priority is to enhance the impact of our research through substantial investment
 (>£16M) in academics, professional staff and infrastructure.

 1.1. Unit context and structure




 Figure 1 Schematic diagram of the 5 sub-disciplinary research groups within P&A. Research
 FTEs are indicated in parentheses. Interdisciplinary connections through research centres PAC,
 SCQT, SPQR and DISCUS are indicated.

 P&A lies within the School of Mathematical and Physical Sciences (MPS), alongside the
 Department of Mathematics. P&A has 42.7 FTE independent research staff across five research
 groups:
    • Astronomy (Astro, 11 FTE)
    • Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics (AMO, 11 FTE)
    • Experimental Particle Physics (EPP, 11.5 FTE)
    • Theoretical Particle Physics (TPP, 6.2 FTE)
    • Materials Physics (MP, 3 FTE)

 Since REF2014, P&A has appointed ten new Faculty: Krüger, Oručević, Weidt (AMO), Asquith,
 Shaw (EPP) and King, Boland, Dalton (MP) were recruited, while Byrnes (Astro) and Pasquazi
 (AMO) transitioned from proleptic positions. In addition, Gongora (AMO), Lindert (TPP) and
 Sutton (EPP) are Independent Research Fellows on open-ended or proleptic contracts.
 Our department also leads four new interdisciplinary research clusters (see Section 1.4 for
 details) with most researchers belonging to at least one of these:
    • Sussex Programme for Quantum Research (SPQR)
    • Sussex Centre for Quantum Technology (SCQT)
    • Data Intensive Science Centre (DISCUS)
    • Particle Astrophysics and Cosmology Group (PAC)

 The relationship between the groups and interdisciplinary centres is illustrated in Figure 1.



                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2. Strategy and Research Objectives

 1.2.1. Development and monitoring of strategic plans
 Recognising external drivers and group and individual strengths, our strategy is developed and
 refined both top-down and bottom-up. We implement Personal Research Plans in addition to
 Department, School and Institutional strategies. Coordination by the Research Strategy Group
 (RSG) includes heads of each group. An important innovation is the establishment of a board of
 External Research Advisors (ERAs Clare Burrage, Jon Butterworth, John Ellis, James Elliott,
 Gian-Luca Oppo, John Peacock and Christopher Sachrajda) to review our strategic plans. The
 ERAs enable focus on the most promising future directions (e.g. prioritising DUNE) and provide
 external input for institutional investments and support (Section 3.2).

 1.2.2. Achievement of strategic objectives 2014-2020
 Objectives defined in REF 2014 have all been realised. We aimed to expand our groups, pursue
 high-quality research, and drive new experimental activity with the specific intention of increasing
 our socio-economic impact. Through targeted recruitment, groups are now at sufficient size
 (Section 1.1) to undertake world-leading research (Section 1.2.3). As planned, we established a
 new Material Physics group. Our expanded research capacity is sustainable, as evidenced
 through diversification and increase in research income (Section 3.3).
 Following REF 2014, our key priorities were diversification of income, generation of impact and
 increased professional support - this pre-empted the UK industrial strategy and UKRI priorities.
 We achieved our aims through:
     • Strategic hires
     • Matched-funding
     • Expanded and enhanced laboratory space
     • Increased professional support (especially for business development)
     • Interdisciplinary and external engagement support structures
     • Institutional funding for PhD students

 The support includes over £16M of direct investment (Section 3.2).
 P&A continues to be an active member of the South-East Physics Network (SEPNet), focussing
 on graduate training through GradNet, the doctoral training element of SEPnet (Sections 2.2,
 4.6), advancing equality and diversity (Section 2.3), and facilitating enhanced engagement with
 the regional economy (Section 4.2). This directly benefits Sussex research through DISCnet and
 increased TPP income.




                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2.3. Research Quality




 Figure 2 Citation metrics in P&A at University of Sussex for 2012-2019 in comparison to major
 institutions. Left: Citations per publication. Right: Field-weighted citation impact. From SciVal 6th
 Nov 2020.

 Our research quality, measured in Citations per Publication, exceeds those of major universities
 in every year 2012-2019 (SciVal, Figure 2); we also exceed those institutions in Field-Weighted
 Citation Impact (Figure 2, right). This quality is internationally recognised: Sussex featured as a
 rising star in the Nature 2016 Index of the global 500 “…mainly thanks to quadrupling of physical
 science score”.

 1.2.4. Objectives 2021-2025
 We strive to enhance our reputation as an outstanding department producing world-leading
 research in our specialist areas. We aim to be innovators in multidisciplinary research, creating
 major academic and socio-economic impact. Our specific departmental targets for 2021-2025
 are:
     ● Strategic growth to double our FTE in MP
     ● Targeted recruitment of the best talent through prestigious fellowships backed by
        proleptic lectureships (Section 2.1)
     ● Continue generating high quality outputs, matching the best universities in the world
        (Figure 2)
     ● Increase income and reduce risk through further diversification (Section 3.3) and SMART
        optimisation of application and success rates
     ● Enhance economic impact by strengthening our strategic partnerships (Section 4)
     ● Ensure the wellbeing, and effectiveness, of our staff, with a new Faculty role overseeing
        fixed-term staff (projected: March 2021) and early compliance with the UUK Concordat to
        Support Career Development of Researchers (Section 2)



                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    ●    Create a diverse research workforce through our equality, diversity and inclusion policies
         (Section 2.3)
    ●    Each research group has a clear focus, ensuring critical mass and research and impact
         outcomes of exceptional quality (Section 1.2.3).

 Astro
 Astro focusses on cosmology and galaxy evolution, with broad theoretical, numerical and
 observational expertise.
 Our strategy to lead large survey projects including Planck, Herschel, and the Dark Energy
 Survey (DES), has been successful, attracting funding from the EU and STFC (Section 3.3).
 Academic impact has been enhanced through the continued development of essential tools for
 the community, e.g. CAMB, and COSMO-MC and our impact strategy is dissemination through
 data science with DISCUS and public engagement (Sections 1.3, 4.2, 4.3, ICS#3).
 Future objectives:
    • Exploit our investment in new survey facilities (Section 3.2) and our leadership roles in
        upcoming projects e.g. 4-MOST (Section 4.1)
    • Enhance our efforts to realise the benefits of data science for UK skills and economy

 AMO
 AMO focus on developing quantum technologies and their foundations and applications. We are
 one of the largest ion trapping centres worldwide, with more than ten operational systems.
 We have influenced public policy (ICS#2), invested heavily in our strengths (Section 3.2) and
 enhanced collaborations nationally and globally. We gained central roles in the UK National
 Quantum Technologies and the European Quantum Technology Flagship programmes (Section
 3.3), secured EPSRC Quantum Technology Fellowships and won two major EU-ERC quantum
 technology grants.
 Our impact strategy is to influence global policy, encourage public engagement and enable
 technology transfer (Sections 1.3, 4.2, 4.3, ICS#2, ICS#4).
 Future objectives:
     • Grow technology transfer
     • Increase the number of industry-led projects
     • Maximise benefits from collaboration with e.g. National Quantum Computing Centre
     • Accelerate application of quantum technologies in other research domains

 EPP
 EPP explores the frontiers where new physics might be found, with a strong focus on collider
 and neutrino physics (Section 4.1).
 Our strategy is to lead the exploitation of existing experiments, evidenced by major contributions
 to a large number of high-impact papers. We have influenced international direction through
 European Strategy for Particle Physics and secured leading roles in the preparation of future
 high-profile experiments. Our technical contributions showcase our expertise in data science,
 scintillator technology and high-speed FPGA-based data acquisition systems.
 EPP’s route to impact has three pathways: public engagement, applications of detector
 technology, and data science through DISCUS (Sections 1.4, 4.2).
 Future objectives:
    • Enhance our influence in the decision-making process for the future collider programme
    • Consolidate our key roles in preparations for upcoming experiments, ensuring continued
        leadership in the exploitation of high-profile projects




                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 TPP
 TPP covers four main areas: particle astrophysics and cosmology; particle phenomenology;
 tools for high-energy physics; quantum field theory and quantum gravity.
 Our research has direct impact on experimental searches, including experiments at CERN; dark
 matter searches; and gravitational wave observatories. We nurture strong international
 partnerships. We formed SEPTA with RHUL and UCL, growing our STFC consolidated grant by
 40%, and gave strong support to the NExT regional consortium. We secured new funding to
 provide key theory expertise for QSNET and QUEST-DMC in STFC's QTFP programme.
 Our impact strategy focuses on interdisciplinary research mediated through DISCUS.
 Future objectives:
    • Maximise and strengthen our core expertise to provide world-leading tools in LHC
        searches
    • Exploit and guide new physics searches in particle phenomenology, particle
        astrophysics, and cosmology
    • Realise the opportunities of the QTFP programme

 MP
 MP has made major, innovative contributions in the field of low-dimensional nanostructured
 materials, e.g. a method for spinning continuous nanotube fibres having record lengths, tensile
 strengths, and toughness. Our emphasis is on applications of these materials from bio-scaffolds
 to sensors and robotics.
 Three well-equipped laboratories were established as part of our strategic investment (see Section
 3.2), leading to rapid success and over £3M in funding since 2016 (Section 3.3).
 Our impact strategy focusses on the transfer of solution-processed nanomaterial technologies into
 global markets transfer, especially in collaboration with spin-out company Advanced Materials
 Development (Section 4.2, ICS#1).
 Future objectives:
      •   Izabela Jurewicz, a UKRI Future Leaders Fellow, joins us in November 2020 as Faculty
          and we will prioritise support for her to establish her programme
      •   Use SPQR as a networking and promotion vehicle to strengthen the key research theme
          of biomaterials/biophysics

 1.3. Facilitating Impact
 Since the last REF period, P&A has undergone a culture change with a steadily increasing
 portfolio of research focussed on impact. It has engineered impact facilitation through strategic
 recruitment of academics whose research and expertise has technology transfer (Krüger,
 Dalton), or engagement potential (Shaw), and invested in infrastructure to support this.

 1.3.1. Public Engagement
 Our engagement activity has been strategically refocussed to engage larger audiences with our
 research and is strengthened, particularly internationally, with new Faculty roles of Research
 Communication Officer (Shaw) and Public Engagement Director (Wilkins), successes include
 two STFC public engagement fellowships and over £250k of STFC awards.
 One exemplar of our engagement work is the ATLAS Open Data Project, led by Shaw, which
 provides publicly accessible collision data and simulations from the ATLAS experiment. This is
 used globally by undergraduate students, secondary school students and the public to develop
 programming and analysis skills, alongside an appreciation of the scientific method. We plan to
 apply this model to future high-impact particle physics experiments, in particular DUNE.
 Our strategic approach is exemplified by our work raising awareness of quantum computing,
 leveraging our unique “blueprint” for a quantum computer. We have engaged audiences of

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 millions, most spectacularly via an award-winning walk-in installation in London's Financial
 District. This has encouraged substantial investment in quantum computing (ICS#4).
 For other examples, see: Section 4.3.

 1.3.2. Technology Transfer
 P&A has developed a five-year plan, based on clear pathways to impact through strategic
 initiatives, long-term industrial alliances with partners in key sectors, and a strong regional
 presence. P&A has worked closely with the University’s central Research and Enterprise team to
 ensure alignment with wider institutional direction.
 Key impact areas have been identified as quantum technologies and materials, and data
 science. Future impact in these areas will be enhanced through the SPQR “Sussex Quantum
 Partners” industrial liaison programme and DISCUS. Focussing external engagement on key
 sectors will create buildable impact and strong reputation, in turn attracting further partners to
 create a self-sustaining research community.
 Dedicated Professional Services staff have been recruited, including a full-time STFC
 Innovations Partnership Scheme Fellow (IPS Fellow) in 2014; a position which has subsequently
 been made permanent (Section 3.5). Resources include the STFC Impact Acceleration (IAA,
 Section 3.7). The IPS Fellow has been instrumental in developing and securing partnerships and
 promoting engagement through local data science industry networking initiatives (Section 4.2).
 Projects funded through IAA have secured approximately £2.96M in further grants to date.
 Entrepreneurship training and mentoring by the IPS Fellow has transformed enterprise culture
 and led to e.g. the formation of DataJavelin (a data science consultancy) by two Sussex Fellows
 (Section 2.1.2).
 An additional business engagement officer was recruited in 2019 for SPQR and is now leading
 the development of Sussex Quantum Partners, a key success being a £5.5M Innovate UK grant
 with the second largest UK battery factory (AMTE Thurso).

 1.3.3. Impact Case Studies
 The four selected Impact Case Studies arise directly from our impact strategy:
    • ICS#1 “Commercial Exploitation of Nanoparticle Based Inks …” — arises directly
        from our appointment of Dalton and the spin-out of AMD
    • ICS#2 “The impact of quantum computing research on the adoption of public
        policy” — arises from the strategic planning of SCQT
    • ICS#3 “Satellite data processing ... enabled better forecasting for improved
        drought resilience in Africa …” — arises from a collaboration initiated and supported
        by DISCUS.
    • ICS#4 “… commercial investment towards the development of a practical quantum
        computer” — arises from the strategic planning of SCQT and the spin-out of Universal
        Quantum

 1.4. Interdisciplinary research
 To achieve our research objectives, broaden our income streams and engage with the UK
 industrial strategy and UKRI impact agenda, we have radically advanced our approach to
 interdisciplinary research. We have founded three University-recognized interdisciplinary
 research clusters: SPQR; SCQT and DISCUS, all supported by substantial investments in direct
 start-up costs, in-kind support of research bids, and studentships and on-going income sharing
 schemes (see Section 3.2). These clusters have attracted considerable success e.g. the award
 of significant funding through the Quantum Technology Hubs, the award of an STFC Centre for
 Doctoral Training (DISCnet) (see Sections 3.1 and 3.3), three interdisciplinary Outputs
 (submitted to UoAs 9, 4 and 14) and ICS#3. The interdisciplinary PAC has enabled one
 successful application to STFC Ernest Rutherford Fellowships (Figueroa), while emerging
 research collaboration with Mathematics is facilitated through the Mathematical Physics group.



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.5. Open Science
 P&A has a strong commitment to Open Science e.g. the ATLAS Open Data Project (Section
 1.3.1).
 A second example is the Sussex-led €2.5M European-funded Herschel Extragalactic Legacy
 Project (HELP), which has collected a vast quantity of data from surveys by major international
 observatories. Value has been added through new software tools and derived data, accessible
 via Virtual Observatory compliant servers at Sussex, while software is shared through GitHub.
 P&A is also strongly committed to open publishing - the Open Journal of Astrophysics was
 founded by Peter Coles while at Sussex and nearly all articles are shared through ArXiv. From
 August 2011, Sussex mandated depositing all peer-reviewed research outputs and associated
 metadata. Our preference is to use a Green Open Access route for publication and if
 unavailable, the Gold Open Access route is used. For UKRI-funded research, a block grant is
 available to support Gold.

 1.6. Research Integrity
 Sussex is committed to promoting and upholding the highest quality academic and ethical
 standards and endorses the UUK Concordat to Support Research Integrity. The University has
 developed robust research governance and ethics policies and procedures that recognise the
 importance of addressing ethical matters. These procedures and policies underpin all research
 at the University and are publicly available on the University website along with the Code of
 Practice for Research. Sussex has a register of interests to avoid conflicts of interest, and
 detailed policies on the management of research data and information security.
 Most importantly, research integrity and ethical standards are upheld by the culture that is
 embedded in P&A. All new staff are mentored and guided in the importance and conduct of
 open, transparent and collaborative research, as articulated in the School Vision.

 2. People

 2.1. Staffing Strategy and staff development

 2.1.1. Strategic Staffing and Recruitment Strategy
 Our staffing strategy covers our Teaching and Research staff (Faculty), our post-doctoral,
 research-only staff (Fellows) and our technical and professional staff. It has three main themes:
    • Expand quantum technology and material physics through the interdisciplinary
        programme at their interface: SPQR (see Section 1). To achieve this, we recruited
        research leaders of international standing (Krüger and Dalton), supported with Lecturers
        (Oručević, King, Boland)
    • Recruit staff with skills specific and essential to our impact strategy. Skills gaps were
        filled by professional business development staff (Section 3.4) and targeted recruitment
        of Faculty with a unique public engagement profile (Shaw)
    • Enhance our research capacity and facilitate on-going strength and succession planning
        through expanded recruitment, and subsequent development of, exceptional early career
        researchers (Fellows and PGR)
   Seb Weidt joined P&A in 2005 on BSc Physics with Management studies. He undertook a
   PhD (2010-2014) in Quantum Information Technology supervised by Hensinger, receiving
   essential research training. He continued as Research Fellow (2014) taking on more
   responsibility for commercialisation and public engagement and was promoted to Senior
   Research Fellow (2015) and Lecturer in 2018. In 2019 he co-founded Universal Quantum with
   Hensinger and now has a joint appointment as CEO (see ICS#4).
 Box 1: Case Study of staff development. Weidt was one of 5 staff (3 female) who joined Faculty
 from Fellowships.



                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Since 2014, P&A recruited eight new Faculty (Krüger, Boland, Dalton, Oručević, Shaw (direct
 appointments) and Asquith, King, Weidt (via Fellowships). Two Fellows on proleptic Fellowships
 have transitioned to Faculty (Byrnes and Pasquazi) (Section 1.1). We recruited a further
 independent Fellow who is on a proleptic position (Lindert) and have two Fellows who have
 achieved independence (Gongora, Sutton). Professional Services staff provision expanded from
 1.3 to 7.5 FTE (Section 3.5). Our strategy both required and facilitated a 55% increase in the
 number of research-only staff since 2013/14, from 28.5 FTE to average 44.0, with a rise in
 Fellow/Faculty from 1.4 to average 2.4 (Figure 3).




 Figure 3: Researcher FTE per Faculty FTE since 2013/14 – PGR (black) and Fellows (red).

 2.1.2. Staff Development
 The University Research Staff Working Group, led by an academic Director, oversees all areas
 of research staff support. Sussex has held the HR Excellence in Research Award for the past six
 years by following the principles of the UK Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers.
 Researcher development in P&A is led by the Director of Research and Knowledge Exchange,
 working with Professors from each research group and we are developing a new Faculty role to
 focus on the career development of our Fellows (to be in place by March 2021). We already
 follow the principles of the 2019 Concordat closely.
 Our staff development, beyond the usual training offered centrally, nurtures early career
 researchers through a strong collegiate spirit and peer mentoring. New Fellows and Faculty are
 strongly supported within their research groups and are additionally assigned a mentor, often
 from outside their group. New Faculty are established with significant financial investment
 (Section 3.2) and all have reduced teaching and administrative duties.
 Research enhancement for Faculty is enabled through sabbaticals (one semester every four-
 and-a-half years), plus long-term research leave (e.g. by Sanz) to develop and grow new areas
 of excellence. Senior staff receive significant support to develop impactful research with e.g. a
 five-year Research Professorship for Krüger. Opportunities for leadership experience are
 identified and encouraged, with Readers often representing research groups on the RSG.
 We devolve funds to progress research and provide opportunities for pump-priming (Section
 3.2). We provide pre-submission and post-outcome grant review to generate and integrate
 feedback. We employ external companies to support strategic grant applications e.g. the


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 successful ERC Consolidator award to Peccianti (2016). This also equipped our staff with skills
 to run mock interviews, resulting in further success e.g. ERC Starting Grant for Pasquazi (2019).
 The career progression of Faculty from 2014-2020 exhibits a steady promotion through Lecturer,
 Senior Lecturer/Reader, to Professor – with 20 promotions to the role of Professor since 2014.
 Two Professors have also been promoted to Senior Management positions: Harris, to Head of
 School (2014) and Oliver, to Deputy Pro-Vice-Chancellor Research (2020).
 We have lost just seven Faculty over the same period. Of those, two transferred to research-only
 positions and three had been employed on fixed-term contracts (one of these was re-employed
 as our Technical Services Manager, the others took up academic posts elsewhere). Coles, our
 former Head of School, returned to a post in Cardiff and Eberlein joined Loughborough as Dean
 of Science.
 P&A has refined the University appraisal process to more accurately reflect each career stage
 for Fellows. Line managers explicitly review and consider each of their research staff for
 promotion annually and the progression of Fellows has thus been a particular success in recent
 years. Five research fellows have joined Faculty through direct appointment or via proleptic
 positions (e.g. see Box 1). In 2014, all Fellows were Grade 7, except a retiring Faculty member
 (Grade 9) and one Royal Society URF (Grade 8). The REF period has seen seven promotions to
 Senior Research Fellow (Grade 8) and in 2020; we have seven Fellows at Grade 8 and one
 Grade 9. Six of our Fellows hold open-ended contracts.
 We work intently to grow academic careers and 102 staff have transitioned out of research-only
 roles since REF2014. The first destination for ten such staff was a Faculty position (six at
 Sussex including one in the Department of Informatics), while at least two others have
 subsequently secured Faculty positions. Ten are independent Fellows. In total, 64% succeeded
 to academic jobs. All destinations are indicated in Figure 4.




 Figure 4: First destinations of 102 research-only staff since 2014.

 Consistent with our impact strategy (Sections 1.3), we value enterprise highly. We encourage
 exchanges with industry for all researchers. Examples include Dalton, who is seconded to AMD
 one day per week, Weidt and Hensinger, with 50% of their time allocated to Universal Quantum
 and Abel, a Fellow, seconded to cdo² for 6 months. We enable early career researchers to
 develop the commercial potential of their work and have facilitated two Enterprise Fellowships
 from the Royal Society of Edinburgh for former PhD students: Waterfield progressed to develop
 the spin-out Pulser Optics and Baruah to develop his company Viridian Logic (winners of the
 Product, Service or Technology Award at the Sustainability Impact Awards 2020). Through
 DISCUS, we also supported PhD student Shehu to develop the spin-out Calypsort (this led to
 him being recruited as Research Scientist for Moogsoft) and Fellows (and former PhD students)
 Hurley and Rooney to co-found DataJavelin, a machine-learning consultancy.



                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2. Research students




 Figure 5: Number of PhD degree awards in Physics and Astronomy by year since 2008/09
 (black) and number of PGR FTEs (red) since 2013-14.

 Our doctoral research students (PGR) are significant contributors to our research environment
 and to the health and sustainability of the discipline. Doctoral research is central to our research
 strategy, underpinned by substantial investment and strong support structures. Over the REF
 period, the department has seen 115 PhD awards, while student/supervisor ratio has risen from
 1.4 to 2.5 (Figure 3). Of 107 REF outputs, 60 have PGR authors and 43% of our PhD graduates
 progressed to Fellowship positions as their first destinations. Our student body is internationally
 diverse, drawn from over 30 countries, with 31.6% of our 1220 applicants joining us from outside
 the EU. Year on year, around 25% of our PGR cohort are female.
 PGR studentships rose from 41 FTE in 2013/14 to 96 FTE in 2019/20, thanks to substantial
 University investment, which supported 48 students (including through the University’s
 Chancellor’s International Student Awards). This complements a wide range of external funding
 (as at 1 October 2019):
     • 40 UKRI
     • 5 DSTL
     • 3 EU
     • 1 Private sector
     • 1 SEPnet
     • 2 Royal Society
     • 1 China Scholarship Council
     • 1 ITN student

 We co-lead the data-intensive science centre (DISCnet) CDT and host students from several
 other CDTs. GRADnet provides enhanced training and employer engagement opportunities
 (Section 4.6).
 All our students are supported from recruitment to first destination by processes and
 arrangements managed by the University’s Doctoral School, the Research Degree Committee
 and the School Director of Doctoral Studies (DDS), who is a member of SMT and the
 University’s Doctoral Studies Committee. Our arrangements are accredited by STFC - SEPnet’s
 employability programme is cited by STFC as good practice. As a result, all 106 thesis
 submissions over the REF period were on time, we have had a modest number of twenty
 withdrawals, most of them for health reasons, and no fails.


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Students are selected through open recruitment including interviews, carried out by research
 groups, overseen by the DDS.
 Students are embedded in research groups and are assigned at least two supervisors. All faculty
 undergo unconscious bias training, supervisors are offered initial as well as refresher training,
 and fulfil a training module on mental health and well-being of research students. Supervision
 arrangements and progress are reviewed annually, allowing problems to be addressed early.
 This includes assessment and feedback by independent Faculty based on a written report and
 interview, with interim reviews and deliverables scheduled if needed.
 Students tailor, document, and review their own training programme annually through the
 University’s Training Needs Analysis process. Typically, students take 100 hours of discipline-
 specific training, chosen from a diverse offering of advanced courses. All students are required
 to give talks on their research and are expected to attend internal seminar series and
 international conferences. This training programme is diversified through long-term attachments
 (LTA) and through research and transferable skills training including presenting, scientific
 writing, and entrepreneurships offered by the Doctoral school and GRADnet or comparable
 professional skills training. DISCnet provides intensive additional training in data science to its
 students, which includes twenty days’ residential training during the first year and is available to
 non-DISCnet students. Both MPS and GRADnet run student-led conferences each year.
 Student well-being is a key concern and students have recourse to the DDS and the Director of
 Student Experience. It is a focus area of the annual review. Students have access to a team of
 dedicated advisors and counsellors in the Student Life Centre. Disability support is provided by
 the Student Support Unit. Support for PGR mental health and well-being has been improved
 through a HEFCE Catalyst project over the REF period, including new dedicated supervisor
 training.

 Outcomes and Career Destinations
 The perfect on-time submission record over the REF period is accompanied by a large number
 of journal outputs, including around 60% of our REF outputs. Research successes are
 celebrated, including through annual prizes at University and School level and one dissertation
 recently won a Springer Thesis Prize. The University’s careers service provides one-to-one
 advice, career exploration workshops, CV writing and interview workshops, employer events and
 alumni fairs. Career planning is integrated into the annual review process.
 Training to support entrepreneurship and commercial activity is provided by the Doctoral School,
 via GRADnet, and has been run or arranged by the IPS Fellow, offering sessions on intellectual
 property, start-ups and software licencing. This industry focus is supported by the SEPnet-run
 eight-week industry placement scheme and the DISCnet integrated research placement in non-
 University environments, offering six months’ workplace experience.

 Of our graduates, 43% go on to a Fellowship, 11% to data science roles in the private sector,
 5% into government, 5% onto teaching roles in secondary or tertiary education, 18% into other
 private sector roles, with the remainder unknown.




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 6: Distribution (%) of PGR first destinations based on a sample of 88 students completing
 between 2014 and 2020


 2.3. Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) is fundamental to the P&A culture and articulated in our
 seven-point Guiding Principles. Our EDI strategy builds on a strong University commitment,
 exemplified by the appointment of a Deputy Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Equalities and Diversity
 (2017), the establishment of an EDI unit and the introduction of a new institutional EDI Strategy
 (2017). The School of Mathematical and Physical Sciences holds an Athena SWAN bronze
 award and EDI is overseen by the Director of Equality and Diversity.
 P&A strategy seeks to recruit, support and retain the highest-quality researchers from all
 ethnicities, genders, sexualities, disabilities, ages and beliefs. We have a diverse Faculty from
 thirteen countries with a gender ratio of 20% – an increase from 14% in 2014. The gender ratio
 for those joining Faculty is 4/10 (40%) and 3/5 (60%) for those transitioning to Faculty from
 Fellowships. We also have three female Professors, up from one, and another (Eberlein) moved
 to senior management at Loughborough.
 We recognise that much more needs to be done and are working with the University and SEPnet
 to increase diversity at all levels. Our strategy focusses on three aspects: showcasing diversity
 to encourage students and early career researchers from all backgrounds into research;
 recruitment of staff from a diverse pool; and enhancing an inclusive, supportive and
 transparent culture to attract and retain outstanding researchers.

 Showcasing Diversity
    •   Female Head of Department from 2015 to 2017 and 3 female P&A members of School
        executive
    •   Throughout this REF period, at least one of our research group leaders has been female
    •   Staff with protected characteristics are strongly represented on committees and in senior
        administrative roles with a gender ratio of 40% in committee chairs (balanced by
        reduction in other duties)
    •   Our outreach and public engagement activities employ students and staff from diverse
        backgrounds. In 2018-19, 51% of the students involved were female and 19% BAME,
        significantly higher than our student population

 Recruitment
 All recruitment panels for research staff and PGR must:
      • Have up-to-date training in recruitment policy, unconscious bias, and EDI

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Include at least one female member

 Inclusive, supportive and transparent culture
    •   Official meetings are held 10am-4pm. Sending emails outside normal working hours is
        strongly discouraged
    •   Carers have reserved parking
    •   Flexible working policy. Examples include supporting Sanz in taking long-term leave for
        family reasons and to explore new research directions; King and Sargent with extended
        parental leave, and Hindmarsh with part-time working to facilitate his collaboration with
        the University of Helsinki
    •   Strong support in anticipation of, and following, career breaks (see Box 2)
    •   Dedicated EDI and well-being champions provide confidential points of contact
    •   Working closely with Occupational Health to fully support staff with disabilities, included
        reducing a staff member’s workload by 20% (while remaining 1.0 FTE), working with the
        Timetable team to adjust schedules
    •   A detailed and transparent workload model and regular check for biases. The model
        includes all EDI related activities
    •   Committee minutes are openly published
    •   A bookable, wellbeing space for e.g. informal discussion, breastfeeding or relaxation
    •   Funding provided to support carers for research travel
    •   Quantity of travel is not considered when assessing promotion
    •   Staff are encouraged to display their pronouns and many wear LGBT+ supporter badges
    •   Regular events to celebrate diversity such as LGBT+ STEM Days, ‘Black Lives Matter’
        discussion events and International Women’s Day events

 To achieve a fair and transparent process for REF we have ensured that:
    • Preparations followed the institutional Code of Conduct, agreed after extensive
        consultation
    • P&A procedures for selecting Outputs were published to all staff. Authors provided a
        grade estimate which Heads of research groups used to guide them in selecting those for
        grading by our ERAs
    • Eligible researchers were regularly informed about their Output selection and grades

 An analysis of submitted Outputs showed that three or more were submitted from 43% of female
 researchers, compared with 30% from male researchers, indicating no gender bias against
 female staff in the Output selection process. There were no significant differences on the basis
 of ethnicity or disability and there was no bias against younger staff.
 Our EDI strategy aims to increase the number of applications from under-represented groups at
 all levels and to increase the number of female Professors to five by 2025. We will also run and
 publish annual surveys to understand and accelerate our progress on EDI.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1. Research Funding Strategies
 Our key aims during the REF period were to increase funding and diversify its sources. Our
 funding increased steadily from £2.1M in 2008/09 to £3.3M in 2013/14 but was highly
 concentrated, with 54% from STFC and 20% from EU (Figure 7). In 2016, the department
 therefore established two new professorial positions in materials physics and quantum sensing,
 with a particular emphasis on developing new industrially-focussed funding pathways, aligned
 with UKRI priorities. Both included substantial start-up funding and extensive newly-refurbished
 laboratory space. The two appointees, Dalton and Krüger, established SPQR as a vehicle for
 interdisciplinary collaboration and forging links to industry partners. We also invested heavily in
 PhD students and professional services staff.


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2. Institutional Investment
 We have been extremely successful in securing institutional investment into P&A, particularly
 through the University's Strategic Development Fund (SDF). In REF2014, we reported £10M
 SDF investment. Since then, we’ve benefited from an additional £11.16M of direct SDF
 investment (29% of the institutional total), of which £9.15M has realised our key strategic
 priorities of establishing materials physics and expanding quantum technologies, as discussed in
 Section 1.2.
 SDF investment has also leveraged substantial additional investment from the School. In total,
 £8M was invested in the establishment of Krüger's research programme (including £2.4M for
 laboratory refurbishment), £2.3M for Dalton's (including substantial laboratory space and
 equipment: see Section 3.5) and £1.7M in matched-funded support of the Quantum Technology
 Hub bids. Additional laboratory refurbishments (Section 3.5) have cost £0.46M.
 The School has provided £2.74M for technical staff (above that included in SDF) and £0.40M for
 research staff.
 Devolved Budgets give academics autonomy to invest in and direct their research. These
 budgets are used to incentivise grant applications, as income to Devolved Budgets is 4% of
 Contribution Income awarded with a minimum of £1k/yr. Devolved Budgets received £69k in
 2019/20 and the total spend has been £585k since 2014.
 Significant additional investment comes via the Doctoral School, which matches funding for
 doctoral students from UKRI schemes. Since 2014, we have provided funding of £3.5M for PGR.
 The University stimulates new research through the Sussex Research programme, which runs a
 number of funding schemes at different scales:
    • P&A were awarded £71k from the Research Development Fund, resulting in grant
       applications totalling £9.8M and awards totalling £2.1M
    • Research Opportunity Funding of £2.3k supported the engagement leading to Quantum
       Technology Hub awards (£2.6M)
    • A Thematic Programme Award (GCRF-DISCUS) of £10k (leading to e.g. the STFC-
       GCRF funded £115k AstroCast project and ICS#3)
    • The Kroto Fellowship award to King and the Helena Normanton Fellowship to Gongora
       (£40k)
    • International Studentship Programme awards (£3.5k) and Briggs Fellowship funding of
       £16.6k to support Fellows visiting Romer and Wilkins

 Sussex also invested in subscriptions or buy-in to international facilities e.g. membership of the
 4-metre Multi-Object Spectroscopic Telescope consortium (4MOST, €400k) and approximately
 £90k to join the East Asian Observatory collaboration to access JCMT.
 The total investment in P&A is accounted for through the Transparent Approach to Costing
 (TRAC) system which audits the Full Economic Cost of research and the external revenue. Data
 is available from 2016/17 and, in the four financial years until 2019/20, the net investment from
 Sussex into P&A research was £16.4M, i.e. £4.1M/yr.




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.3. Research Funding Outcomes




 Figure 7: Annual research grant income by year 2013-2020, broken down by funder.

 Our research strategy has been rewarded with £34.4M of new awards (2014-2020). £20M of this
 comes from large awards (over £840k). The strategic investment in quantum technology resulted
 in £7.4M over seven EPSRC Quantum Technology Hub awards and a further £5.9M in other
 quantum technology and related awards. The MP group has had rapid success with awards of
 £3M, including £1.6M funding from AMD (Section 4.2). The core funding for Astro, EPP and TPP
 has continued to build with consolidated grant awards of £2.2M, £4.2M, and £2.0M respectively.
 Research support (Section 3.5) enabled us to pursue highly competitive international awards
 with e.g. two ERC consolidator Grants (Peccianti and Lewis) and three ERC starting grants
 (Hartnell, Pasquazi and Seery).
 Our strategy of supporting competitive prestigious fellowships has also achieved considerable
 success:
    • Two EPSRC Quantum Technology Fellowships (Pasquazi, Verdu - AMO)
    • Royal Society University Research Fellowship (Fialkov - Astro) and extension (Byrnes -
        Astro), Royal Society Dorothy Hodgkin Fellowship (Asquith - EPP)
    • STFC Ernest Rutherford Fellowship (Lindert –TPP)
    • Marie Skłodowska-Curie European Fellowship (Tamsett – EPP)

 We additionally obtained £2.2M funding to support our roles in international projects and
 collaborations e.g. £0.47M for ATLAS upgrade and £0.95M to support our role in DUNE.
 £1.1M was awarded to support commercialisation and impact generation in STFC areas,
 including two GCRF projects and two Royal Society of Edinburgh Enterprise Fellowships. We
 have also raised £250k to support STFC related public engagement.
 Overall, since 2014/15, grant income averages at £5M p.a, (see Figure 5). The rise since
 2013/14 is primarily through an increase in income per Faculty FTE; income was £88k/FTE in
 2013/14 and £163k/FTE in 2018/19 (averaging at £143k/FTE from 2014-2019). This is an
 outcome of our successful strategy to broaden and diversify our funding sources (as shown in
 Figure 7). Our STFC income has remained stable in an absolute sense (and is still the largest
 single funder), but by 2019/20 accounts for 36% of our annual income with EPSRC at 25%, EU
 at 16% and commercial funding at 11% (from zero in 2013/14).

 3.4. Interdisciplinary Research Clusters
 Interdisciplinary research centres provide an important strategic vehicle for enhancing the
 applications of our research and expose us to more opportunities for building partnerships and
 impact. We have therefore initiated a number of cross-school research clusters:

 Sussex Programme for Quantum Research (SPQR)
 SPQR was formed in 2018 to promote interdisciplinary exchange between world-leading
 laboratories and translate quantum science from the laboratory to end user applications. SPQR

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 is one of four Sussex Strategic Research Programmes, so-called to signify substantial
 investment in areas of existing research strength and address key scientific and societal
 challenges. SPQR is led from P&A by Krüger and Dalton and brings together expertise from
 Neuroscience, Engineering, Informatics, Life Sciences, Medicine and Psychology, forming a
 single network of collaborative, translational research. SPQR links enabling and foundational
 science with quantum device development, realising applications that range in scope from
 human brain activity mapping to next generation touch screens, and from microscopic imaging of
 molecular motors to quantum radar.

 Sussex Centre for Quantum Technologies (SCQT)
 Major investment by the University and consequent significant grant income have transformed
 Sussex into one of the leading incubators of quantum technologies. The Sussex Centre for
 Quantum Technologies (SCQT) is led by Hensinger and Dunningham and is a key component of
 the broader quantum programme (SPQR). SCQT focuses on the development of novel quantum
 technologies, in particular, quantum computing, quantum sensing, quantum imaging and
 simulation, and atomic clocks. Eight research groups, comprising around 100 researchers, work
 in dedicated, state-of-the-art laboratories in close collaboration with industry partners. SCQT
 hosts one of the largest ion trapping centres in the world. Key successes include major impact
 on policy (ICS#2), coupled with high-profile public engagement and crowned by the successful
 spinout of Universal Quantum (ICS#4).

 Data Intensive Science Centre at University of Sussex (DISCUS)
 The Data Intensive Science Centre at University of Sussex (DISCUS) aims to apply advanced
 data analysis, machine learning, artificial intelligence, computational modelling, simulation and
 statistical methods to addressing significant interdisciplinary research challenges. It was founded
 by P&A and now includes researchers across the University. A primary motivation is to align the
 data intensive technology in P&A to the UKRI and UK industrial strategy agenda on data
 economy and global challenges. DISCUS facilitates interdisciplinary research collaborations,
 seminars, workshops and external engagements. University funding includes a part-time Centre
 Manager. DISCUS key achievements include: Wellcome Trust funding, the STFC-funded CDT,
 DISCnet (Section 4.6), STFC-GCRF funding for AstroCast, Outputs
 doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2020.111886 (submitted to UoA9 and UoA14) and
 dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2015.02.037 (submitted to UoA9 and UoA4), and ICS#3.

 3.5. Laboratory Estate, Technical Infrastructure and Support Staff
 Strong investment in new researchers was accompanied with a significant upgrade and
 expansion of our technical infrastructure.
 Since 2014, five new laboratories were installed, including a photonics laboratory, three
 laboratories for MP and a laboratory complex of five laser rooms with associated preparation
 space, electronics workshop, and meeting room. We also added two clean-rooms, which allow
 detector work for neutrino research and micro-fabrication of quantum devices. Finally, an
 electronics laboratory has been installed, aiding research into the trigger design of ATLAS and
 the next linear collider. The total space occupied by P&A increased from 3537 m2 in 2013 to
 4056 m2, while the laboratory space expanded from 934 m2 to 1140 m2.
 In addition to the laboratory space, we invested in laboratory facilities such as atomic force,
 Fourier transform and Raman microscopes, UV-Vis-NIR spectrophotometers, mechanical test
 equipment, and electrical and electrochemical test facilities. A state-of-the-art aerosol jet printer
 for high-resolution deposition of electronic devices was recently acquired. An optical frequency
 comb and a GPS disciplined oscillator is shared between labs.
 The technical support for our experimental activities is provided by a state-of-the-art mechanical
 workshop with significant experience in high-vacuum and low-temperature systems, and working
 with specialist materials. An additional small mechanical workshop provides on-hand training for
 PGRs and Fellows in machining; this also permits research staff to do certain jobs themselves.


                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We provide electronics support in a small workshop staffed by a team of technicians with
 specialist skills, such as data acquisition, mixed-signal electronics and FPGA programming.
 The theoretical and modelling activities are supported by our high-performance computing
 facility which has grown significantly since 2014. The University is certified as a GridPP Tier-2
 site and will enable the ATLAS Virtual Organization (VO) to become fully integrated with the
 ATLAS Grid. The University has set out an ambitious Enabling Research Technology Strategy,
 2020-2025 that aims to transform the IT provision for researchers.
 Beyond the technical and infrastructure support, administrative support is essential to our
 strategy to increase research funding income, generate impact and maintain the high quality of
 our research outputs. Our overall professional services staff grew from 1.3 FTE in 2014, to 7.5
 FTE now. We currently have 0.8 FTE Research Development Officer to support grant
 preparation, 1.0 FTE Research Finance Officer to support grants post-award, 2.3 FTE clerical
 staff for PGR support, 1.3 FTE Business Development Fellows and 2.1 FTE Project
 Management and Centre Administrators.

 3.6. EDI in funding and facilities
 The support provided for pursuing research funding is described in Section 2.1 and Section 3.2
 and is available equally to all, though benefits early career researchers and people returning
 from care leave in particular (see Box 2):
  Pasquazi benefitted from our strong support for funding applications and flexible working
  policy before and after her maternity leave. This included relief from teaching and
  administrative duties and extensive support from our Innovations Partnership Fellow as well
  as School funding for: preliminary results and establishing collaborators; a market study for
  commercialisation; interview practice with a coach; and for her partner to accompany her to
  interviews during pregnancy. This helped her secure four grants worth £2.4M.
 Box 2: Case study of research success following maternity support.

 P&A has been proactive in improving access for differently-abled people:
   • We installed two stair-lifts to enable wheel-chair use in all areas of our buildings
   • We installed automatic door openers on offices and labs
   • We modified fire doors to improve emergency egress without assistance
   • We introduced emergency evacuation system for mobility-impaired people
   • We provide motorized desks for effortless adjustment of the working position

 3.7. Support specifically for generating Impact
 We have invested in business development staff to work with our academics and optimise
 impact (see Section 3.4). We were awarded four-year STFC Innovation Partnership Fellow
 funding in collaboration with SEPnet and Portsmouth and created two posts, one at each
 institution. We have since made this Grade 8 post permanent; the appointment was so
 successful that we recruited one additional 0.5 FTE Fellow supporting SPQR. These Fellows
 identify funding avenues and disseminate opportunities; they interact with academics to
 understand the commercial potential of research and seek external partners to progress
 projects.
 We also put in place Centre Managers, Communications and Operations Officers and Research
 Administrators for our interdisciplinary centres (2.1 FTE). They facilitate interdisciplinary
 interaction, project development and communications through publicity, seminars, networking
 and hack events.
 Response-mode funding schemes were deployed to explore proof of concept ideas through
 small awards (£5-15k). These schemes are financed through a devolved HEIF allocation of £25k
 p.a. (£40k in 2020) and the STFC IAA (£255k since 2016). We have also accessed the Sussex
 ESRC IAA and the Sussex GCRF QR funds. Promising proof of concept projects are supported
 by the STFC Innovation Partnership Fellow to secure additional funds and take ideas forward.
 For example, small grants from HEIF and the STFC IAA for proof-of-concept work enabled

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ATLAS trigger technology to secure a further £115k from the STFC Follow on Fund. Support
 from companies (Moogsoft and Dyn) then enabled development towards internet security
 applications.
 We make extensive use of institutional support through a central business development team,
 Innovation and Business Partnerships (IBP), formed in 2016, and Sussex Innovation Centre
 (SINC). IBP guide on issues such as non-disclosure agreements, intellectual property and
 research and consultancy contracts, ensuring we have legal cover to work confidently with
 industrial partners. The IBP team also assist us to work effectively across the University. For
 example, through the Knowledge and Exchange network meetings organised by IBP, contacts
 have been shared to support NHS partnership work for COVID modelling. P&A has embedded
 working relationships with a number of companies based at SINC, including AMD, cdo²,
 Ambiental. Furthermore, P&A makes excellent use of the SINC marketing and commercialisation
 expertise to frame exploitation plans for new technologies: a student consultancy contract
 between DISCUS and SINC which will allow PGRs to work on industry challenges is under
 development.
 The central communications team support and amplify our public engagement work externally
 and identify platforms and media to optimise messaging. This has been particularly useful for
 SPQR, building awareness and cultivating contacts through broad-interest open days and
 events.

 3.8. Collaborative infrastructure
 Our particle physics and astrophysics research employs the best international facilities and
 experiments. Participation is effected through open competition, by securing roles in
 international collaboration (see Section 4.1) and, where necessary, through direct investment
 (e.g. 4MOST and JCMT Section 3.2). We work with the following laboratories:
     • CERN (ATLAS)
     • Fermilab (DUNE and NOvA collaborations)
     • SNOLAB (SNO+ and DEAP)
     • HENDEL and MLF facilities at J-PARC (JSNS2)
     • CHEP (future colliders)
     • PSI (nEDM)

 We also have access to the Dark Energy Survey, GAMA and DEVILS, and Simons Observatory.
 We actively participate in a range of projects accessing UKRI supported facilities, including ESO
 and ESA facilities, and are engaged in extensive collaborations that utilise national and
 international High-Performance Computing facilities, including DiRAC (via the Virgo
 Consortium), PRACE, and NCSA.
 Additionally, we have made use of collaborative microfabrication facilities, including the
 Southampton Nanofabrication Centre, the Army Research Laboratory in Adelphi and EPFL in
 Switzerland.

 3.9. Usage of non-UKRI Facilities
 We enjoy notable success in obtaining access in open competition to non-UKRI funded
 international facilities. A particular highlight is our success in obtaining time on international HPC
 facilities, with an in-kind income estimated at >£17.5M (see Table 1). The value of time on large
 international experiments (e.g. NOvA, DES, GAMA) is harder to estimate, but our access to the
 NOvA experiment alone has an estimated value of £10M.




                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Facility   Sussex               Time Awarded Approximate
             Investigator(s)      [M core-hours] Value [£M]
  PRACE      Iliev, Hindmarsh     250                             12.5
  INCITE     Iliev                94                               5.0
  Julich SC Iliev                 23.5                             1.1
 Table 1 Time awarded in open competition on non UKRI Facilities.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Engagement, collaboration and partnership with diverse stakeholders, on different geographical
 scales, is fundamental to the success of our research strategy and the discipline. Our aim is to
 engage widely and develop significant partnerships, influence national and international priorities
 and respond to opportunities with agility. Relationships with key partners are shown below.




 Figure 8: Schematic diagram of the relationships between P&A and our partners.


 4.1. Research Collaboration
 Institutional
 Collaboration with colleagues on the same site is essential for generating ideas and eliciting
 rapid feedback. Our research clusters, DISCUS and SPQR, facilitate interdisciplinary interaction
 (Sections 1.4, 3.4) and yielded 3 interdisciplinary Outputs submitted to UoA9 (and UoAs 4 and
 14) and ICS#3.



                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Local and regional
 The clear value of local and regional academic collaboration led to our co-founding the South-
 East Physics Network (SEPnet) in 2008 - since extended to 2023 and expanded to nine
 departments. SEPnet pre-empted the UK “Place” agenda (articulated in the Industrial Strategy
 2017) and offers many benefits (Sections 4.3, 4.6). Directly translatable advantages for our
 research from this regional critical mass include economies through common/shared facilities
 (e.g. the Southampton Nanofabrication Centre), collaboration for funding e.g. the successful
 TPP collaboration with RHUL and UCL via NExT and, through the expansion of graduate
 training opportunities and funding (from GRADnet and DISCnet, Section 4.6), and the growth of
 our research community.

 National
 To ensure that the UK remains an international leader in quantum technology, linking individual
 University laboratories through the UK National Quantum Technologies programme was
 essential. P&A was influential in developing the national strategy (see ICS#2) and is the main
 partner in the EPSRC Hub: Quantum Computing and Simulation and in the UK Quantum
 Technology Hub: Sensors and Timing. This provides access to common facilities, increased
 research grant income (Section 3.3) and strong exposure to the UK commercial sector (Section
 4.2).
 Other UK-focussed partnerships include collaboration between EPP and TPP members with the
 Institute for Particle Physics Phenomenology (IPPP) in Durham (Jaeger as IPPP associate),
 alongside projects with the National Physical Laboratory and the Rutherford Appleton
 Laboratories.

 International collaborations
 We have many international collaborations and 84.9% of our research publications (2014-2020)
 have international co-authorship (c.f. e.g. University of Oxford 78.5%). Collaborations are
 initiated, developed and maintained through fora (e.g. P&A organised 4 Lorentz Centre
 meetings) and networks such as European COST Actions.
 A key priority is building strategic, institutional relationships and these are recognised with e.g.
 Dalton’s visiting Professorships at the University of Malaya, the Kazakh National University, the
 University of Texas and King Saud University. Hindmarsh’s engagement with the University of
 Helsinki resulted in €1M funding from the Academy of Finland. Other visiting positions include
 Wilkins at Universities of Texas, Austin and Malta. Likewise, a strong relationship with the
 Weizmann Institute, facilitated by Sussex co-funding, enabled funding of two female PhD
 students.
 We have prominent leadership in large collaboration funding e.g. Oliver led the EU-funded
 €2.5M multi-institution Herschel Extragalactic Legacy Project, while Hensinger and Weidt are
 part of the European Quantum Flagship collaboration for microwave-driven quantum computing
 with trapped ions.

 Collaboration to build and exploit major international facilities
 Much of our world-leading research is only achieved through £Bn facilities, necessitating
 significant international collaboration. We are active partners and position ourselves to take
 leading roles in areas aligned with our specialist expertise. We enable those achieving key roles
 to fulfil them, providing extensive and bespoke institutional support.
 We play leading roles in current astrophysics survey experiments including: CEERS, CLASSY,
 COSMOS, DES, GAMA, HERMES, JINGLE , LOFAR, MIGHTEE, Planck, the Simons
 Observatory, VIDEO, and VEILS. Our investment in 4MOST (Section 3.2) provides membership
 and leadership through Loveday as European chair of the WAVES management group. P&A is a
 member of the Euclid, LISA, LSST and SKA consortia where e.g. Sargent holds the co-chair of
 the Extragalactic Continuum SWG and Iliev leads simulation efforts focussed on the Epoch of
 Reionisation. Wilkins is involved in multiple JWST surveys.

                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 P&A shows international leadership in collider physics, neutrino physics and neutron EDM. We
 have strong research collaborations globally, in particular with the international laboratories
 CERN (ATLAS collaboration, future colliders), Fermilab (DUNE, SBND and NOvA
 collaborations), SNOLAB (SNO+ collaboration), J-PARC (JSNS2 collaboration), and PSI
 (nEDM). We are also part of the International Linear Collider and are supported by the EU (H-
 2020) for future collider R&D (AIDA2020, AIDAInnova and FEST grants).
 P&A has a strong record of filling responsible roles within the ATLAS experiment, including
 SUSY Co-convener, Run Coordinator, Upgrade HTT project leader, ID Trigger co-convener. We
 facilitate this by relieving staff of teaching commitments, enabling them to be based at CERN for
 most of their time.

 HPC
 Modern, large, galaxy formation simulations require pooled expertise from international
 consortia. We are a founding member and second largest node of the highly successful Virgo
 Consortium for Cosmological Simulations, in addition to playing a leading role in several other
 collaborations including MassiveBlack, CODA, and Bluetides. We make extensive use of grid
 resources on the WLCG. Sussex is also a certified GridPP Tier-2 site, generating several million
 CPU-hours annually from the national supercomputing service CSC. We are also part of the
 JADE 2 collaboration, securing funding worth £5.5M from EPSRC for GPU computing facility in
 Hartree.

 4.2. Research User Engagement and Contributions to the economy and society
 P&A has cultivated partners through strategic initiatives in quantum and related technology and
 data science. A key factor has been enhanced professional support, including dedicated
 innovation and business Fellows (Section 3.5) who have fostered a steadily increasing portfolio
 of collaborations between 2014 and 2020. Our strategy has also built on local, regional and
 national structures to increase our visibility and enhance engagement.
 These initiatives have led to significant growth and diversification of funding for research and
 interdisciplinary collaborations (Section 3.3).
 Data Science
 DISCUS is now firmly established as a conduit to interdisciplinary research and knowledge
 exchange projects with external audiences.
 DISCUS aims to be a trusted partner in delivering a digital revolution for our region. P&A played
 a leading role in the organization of local data science industry networks e.g. initiating the
 Sussex Data Science Meetup in 2018 – which now has 400 members. These relationships led to
 the formation of DataJavelin, a data science consultancy.
 Data science engagement with regional business, particularly SMEs, has been facilitated
 through existing SEPnet employer engagement and presence on the advisory board of the
 South Coast Centre of Excellence in Satellite Applications. The DISCnet CDT (Section 4.6) led
 to PGR placements and we have maximized opportunities for cooperation with the local digital
 economy through our links with Sussex Innovation Centre. Examples include developing an AI
 image analysis tool for a Brighton start-up, Deckchair, and work with Moogsoft on the use of
 techniques developed for the ATLAS trigger in cyber security applications. A student
 consultancy scheme is being established with the Sussex Innovation Centre and will increase
 this type of engagement.
 Extending our reach nationally, DISCUS worked in partnership with the STFC Food Network+
 (Oliver as Data Science Champion) to build links with the UK food industry. One successful
 outcome was a collaboration with the Met Office on modelling crop yield, resulting in a refereed
 publication and Agriculture and Horticulture Development Board funding for a PhD student.




                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A major impact from DISCUS has been a publication (submitted to UoA9 and UoA14) which was
 co-produced with National Drought Management Authority in Kenya and addressed drought
 forecasting in Africa – this is outlined in ICS#3.
 Technology Transfer
 We have focused on developing significant relationships with key partners. Foremost amongst
 these are two companies that we initiated: Advanced Material Development (AMD, #ICS1) and
 Universal Quantum (ICS#4). Both have provided direct inward research investment – AMD, for
 example, has funded five Research Fellows.
 Through the Sussex Programme for Quantum Research (SPQR), P&A has attracted inward
 investment for research and formed original internal collaborations – notably with the School of
 Engineering and Informatics and Brighton and Sussex Medical School. These have opened up
 novel research directions and we anticipate new funding streams (Section 3).
 SPQR has fostered cross-disciplinary bids collaborating with multiple partners, both academic
 and industrial (e.g. IUK Commercializing Quantum Technology: Large Collaborative Projects).
 One such partnership around environmental RFID tags, involving the Sussex Digital Futures at
 Work Research Centre in Sussex Business School, AMD and Walmart, resulted in a Joint UKRI
 Fellowship award.
 Productive links to industry in the quantum technology sector have been facilitated through our
 public engagement strategy (Sections 1.3.1, 4.3, ICS#4), our regional engagement with policy
 makers and (ICS#2) involvement in the UK Quantum Technology Hubs. The publication of the
 first blueprint for a quantum computer, in partnership with international academic partners and
 Google, has been a major catalyst for promoting engagement.
 Links generating e.g. research funding, patents and joint publications have been established or
 developed with e.g. AMTE Thurso, Allianz Rubber, Allectra UK, M Squared Lasers, cdo²,
 Leonardo, Torr Scientific, TMD Technologies and HighFinesse, UK and US defence
 organisations and a major international financial company. Partnering with the second largest
 UK battery factory, AMTE Thurso, led to an Innovate UK grant to develop quantum sensors for
 end-of-line battery testing (worth £.5M) and contribution to the first UK ‘gigafactory’ for large-
 scale battery production. Concurrently, work to develop a quantum microwave sensor support
 with Leonardo secured a 5-year, £1.5m, EPSRC Quantum Technology Fellowship (Verdu) and
 generated two patents.

 4.3. Public Engagement
 In partnership with SEPnet, we established a highly successful outreach and public engagement
 programme, which has fostered enduring relationships with local schools. This had prioritised
 undergraduate recruitment but since 2014, we have expanded and refocused our programme to
 solicit the engagement of targeted audiences.
 To facilitate this expansion, and in addition to substantial departmental resources, we gained
 support from the Royal Society, STFC, the Royal Astronomical Society, and the Ogden Trust,
 and have partnered with schools, charities, local government, museums and science discovery
 centres.
 From STFC alone, we have attracted over £250k of funding for public engagement, including the
 award of two Public Engagement Fellowships – more than any other institution.
 Highlights of our programme include:
    • The innovative Science on Buses initiative (Asquith)
    • Leadership (Shaw) of the ATLAS Open Data Project
    • Participation in the ICTP Physics Without Frontiers programme (led by Shaw)
    • Installation of four exhibits around ATLAS and James Webb Space Telescope
        (2013/2014 and 2018/2021 respectively) at the Royal Society Summer Science
        Exhibition


                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Also of note is our promotion of emerging quantum technologies, including contribution to
 exhibitions on quantum computing and cryptography at the Science Museum group of museums
 (ICS#4) and presentations at Wired Sussex, an annual festival for our local digital business
 community.

 4.4. Research Influence and Contribution to the Discipline
 P&A has sought not only to respond to national and international priorities and initiatives, but
 also to influence and even pre-empt key aspects.

 Strategical influence on the national and international research agenda
 Our role influencing national and international policies on funding for quantum technology is
 significant and contributed e.g. to the allocation of £1Bn government investments, described in
 ICS#2.
 P&A has also contributed to international research strategy, e.g. Sanz was a member of the
 Physics Preparatory Group producing recommendations for the latest European Strategy for
 Particle Physics (2019).
 We have been active in steering UKRI through advisory structures, e.g. the STFC PPAN 2017
 Balance of Programmes exercise (De Santo). We also provided input to the STFC Corporate
 Plan via the Skills and Engagement Advisory Board (Oliver). Since 2016, Oliver has chaired
 STFC’s Education, Training and Careers Committee and has guided: the introduction of Data
 Intensive Science CDTs to the STFC portfolio (allowing STFC to secure ~80 new students in
 2017, from a UK skills initiative, at a higher pro-rata rate than other councils); the introduction of
 the first UKRI PhD accreditation scheme; and revision of the Ernest Rutherford Fellowship
 criteria. Hensinger serves on EPSRC’s Physical Sciences Strategic Advisory Team.

 Contribution to the operation on fellowship panels, grants committees
 P&A is a major contributor to UK research infrastructure. Research Fortnight (RF 458, 10 June
 2015) reported that Sussex was ranked 1st (of 22) for their acceptance rate (92.3%) of peer
 reviewing for STFC.
 Our emphasis on Early Career Researchers (Section 2) is reflected in our contribution as
 fellowship panel members (or Chairs):
      • UKRI Future Leaders (Oliver, Pasquazi, Sanz)
      • UKRI Stephen Hawking (Oliver)
      • UKRI Alan Turing Fellowship (Oliver)
      • STFC Ernest Rutherford (Falk, Litim, Oliver, Sanz)
      • EPSRC fellowship (Dunningham, Hensinger, Keller)
      • STFC CERN Fellowships (Asquith)
      • Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions Individual Fellowships (Pasquazi)
      • Royal Society Newton International Fellowships (Asquith)
      • Royal Society University Research Fellowships (Hindmarsh)
 We also contribute significantly to UKRI funding panels:
   • EPSRC Centres for Doctoral Training Panel (Hensinger)
   • EPSRC grants Panel (Dunningham, Garraway, Keller)
   • STFC Particle Physics Grants Panel (De Santo)
   • STFC Projects Peer Review Panel (Iliev, Peeters)
 This extends to international funding committees:
     • Academy of Finland Physics 1 Grants Panel (De Santo)
     • NSF proposal review panel (Iliev, Sargent)
     • PRACE Tier-0 panel (Iliev)
     • US Department of Energy (Hensinger)
     • Novo Nordisk Foundation (Hensinger)
    • NCN Poland - Expert Panel for POLS call and Sonata Call (Vivarelli)

                                                                                                Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 P&A contributes widely to journal editorship and peer review. For example, Peccianti is Chief
 Editor of Frontiers in Photonics and Associate Editor of Optics Express, and we have four
 Associate Editors of Scientific Reports (Nature).

 4.5. Recognition of Excellence
 P&A has delivered invited lectures at international conferences of note e.g. Peccianti was
 general chair of Integrated Photonics Research at OSA Advanced Photonics in 2019.
 More specific recognition comes with the number of prestigious fellowships awarded in P&A:
    • STFC Ernest Rutherford (Lindert),
    • STFC Public Engagement (Romer, Wilkins)
    • Royal Society URF / Dorothy Hodgkin (Asquith, Byrnes, Fialkov)
    • Leverhulme Senior Research Fellowship (Sargent)
    • Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions Individual Fellowship (Pasquazi)
    • EPSRC UKRI Innovation Fellowship (Pasquazi)
    • EPSRC Quantum Technology Fellowship (Verdu)
    • CERN scientific Associate (Vivarelli)
 Others won ERC Consolidator awards (Lewis, Peccianti) and ERC Starter Awards (Hartnell,
 Pasquazi, Seery), while De Santo received a Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Award. As
 a key member of the Planck Team, Lewis was awarded the Gruber Cosmology Prize (2018),
 while Peeters received a Breakthrough Prize (2016) in Fundamental Physics as a member of
 SNO Collaboration.

 4.6. Co-operation and collaborative arrangements for PhD training
 P&A’s proactive approach to PGR recruitment and training is amplified by our engagement with
 GRADnet and DISCnet. GRADnet, the collaborative graduate school of SEPnet, is the largest
 regional training programme for Physics PGR in England, offering comprehensive technical and
 transferable skills training alongside career development and employment opportunities.
 Our approach is further illustrated by the NExT regional alliance, comprising core partners
 Sussex, Southampton, RHUL, QMUL, RAL and KCL. With members of P&A in key steering roles
 from the outset, the NExT alliance has maintained a Graduate School since 2008, operating via
 shared video teaching and biannual workshops. Since 2011, PGR training is additionally
 facilitated through annual and STFC co-funded Summer Schools, offering international expert
 lectures and dedicated sessions on careers, employability, diversity, and public engagement,
 attracting typically 45-50 participants UK-wide.
 DISCnet is the Data Intensive Science Centre for doctoral training within SEPnet. Starting as
 one of eight STFC-funded CDTs in 2017, with core partners Sussex, Southampton, QMUL,
 Portsmouth and Open University (together accounting for 10% of UK’s STFC activity), DISCnet
 has secured funding for 31 four-year PhD studentships (2017-2019 entry) and a further 25
 students since. Sussex has commanding leadership in DISCnet, with Oliver as Director and
 sixteen student members. DISCnet provides training and non-University placements, utilising a
 network of around 70 partners. The DISCUS/DISCnet-run STFC Data Science Summer School
 at Sussex in 2019 attracted over 100 PGR, with 92% of attendees awarding a score of >7/10
 and opting to recommend the Summer School. An STFC review of their eight CDTs graded
 DISCnet and one other CDT ‘A’.
 Strong international links fostered our partnership in the Marie Skłodowska-Curie Innovative
 Training Networks (ITN) LIMQUET and Enabling Excellence. LIMQUET has ten partners from
 five countries and supports fifteen PGR. Exemplifying successful career progression, Sussex
 Enabling Excellence graduate Sebastian Nufer now heads the Research & Development division
 at Swiss sensor technology company Sensirion.




                                                                                              Page 24
