Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Queen’s University Belfast

 Unit of Assessment: UOA6

 1. Context, structure and strategy

 a.   Overview

 Since 2014, the Institute for Global Food Security (IGFS) has played a leading role in
 developing solutions to the complex problem of ensuring access to safe, nutritious, sustainable
 and authentic food. IGFS was designated one of three Global Research Institutes (GRIs) within
 the University in 2016, in an initiative to support world-leading research and bring researchers
 from different disciplines together on a scale that enables them to address major societal
 challenges. IGFS is embedded in the School of Biological Sciences (SBS) with links to the
 School of Medicine, Dentistry and Biomedical Sciences (SMDBS) and other schools. Since
 2014, IGFS has attracted significant investment and our academic staff have more than doubled
 from 33.4 to 72.8 FTEs.

 Global population growth, climate change and the double burden of undernutrition alongside
 obesity necessitates the need to fundamentally transform global food systems. This places
 healthy people and a healthy natural environment at the core of transforming food systems. Our
 distinctive strengths map onto the United Nations (UN) sustainable development goals and fit
 with the global focus on the importance of food for health, exemplified by the 2019 EAT-Lancet
 commission report which highlighted food as one of the greatest health and environmental
 challenges of the 21st century.

 Culture of impact and innovation We have grown our impact culture substantially since 2014
 and have embedded a team of impact champions, including Early Career Researchers (ECRs)
 and senior staff within the Institute. IGFS’s inclusive research philosophy promotes cross-
 fertilisation which occurs as a result of researchers from different disciplines working together to
 exchange and share their distinct approaches, facilitating a step-change in the scope and reach
 of IGFS research, driving impact at local, national and international levels. This approach to food
 security is transformational, with beneficial impacts on policy, society and industry. Key
 examples include the Elliott Review on the Horsemeat scandal, development of the world’s only
 vaccine for porcine wasting disease and determining the impact of intensive animal farming on
 climate change and land use. Recently, the UN International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)
 designated IGFS as an IAEA Collaborating Centre, recognising its global reach in food safety,
 authenticity and traceability.

 Infrastructure investment Completed in 2019, a new 12,000m2 £39M state-of-the-art research
 facility, accommodating 500 research staff/students, demonstrates the University’s commitment
 to IGFS, maximising interaction and reinforcing the drive towards interdisciplinary research
 (IDR). Further investments across the IDR pathway include the Assured Safe and Traceable
 (ASSET) technology centre (now designated a ‘Centre of Expertise’ by the Food Authenticity
 Network (Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA)), a leading analytical
 chemistry/mass spectrometry research hub (£10M), specialist proteomic and biosensor facilities
 (£2.5M), and a dedicated research facility investigating innovative technology to reduce chemical
 and antibiotic use in the food chain (AgriPlas), the first of its kind in Europe (£0.4M). Our
 partnership in the planned Global Innovation Institute (GII) (£60M investment as part of the
 Belfast City deal, 2021-36) provides us with an unparalled opportunity to apply digital
 technologies to further address major societal challenges in health, food security and
 environmental sustainability.

 Research Growth We have increased by 39.4 academic staff in this REF2021 submission
 (including senior strategic appointments in systems biology, digital innovation, global change
 biology, nutrition and preventive medicine, food integrity and 10 ECRs), organised across our
 four challenge-driven research themes. Over the reporting period, IGFS has secured £59M
                                                                                                        1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research investment from diverse sources, including EU, UKRI, National Institutes of Health
 USA (NIH) and Science Foundation Ireland (SFI), a 3-fold increase since REF2014, resulting in
 a concomitant rise in Post-Doctoral Research Fellows (PDRFs). We have graduated 248 PhD
 students relative to 84 in the previous reporting period (a 3-fold increase). Furthermore, the
 award of two cohort-based doctoral training programmes (DTPs; UKRI-BBSRC, UKRI-NERC)
 (see section 2e) since 2014 ensures we are leading the way in training the next generation of
 food system leaders.

 Academic success Since 2014, IGFS staff have published 3,121 research outputs which have
 received 52,040 citations across 197 countries. The outputs have recorded a Field-Weighted
 Citation Impact of 1.80, well above the world average of 1.0. Of these outputs, 69.7% were
 published in the top quartile of journals (as ranked by SNIP) and 26.8% are included in the top
 10% most cited papers in the world. The strong international collaborative linkages are
 evidenced by the international co-authorship: from 2014-20, 66.3% of all IGFS outputs included
 an international co-author (Russell Group average – 55.1%). We collaborate with world-leading
 research institutions including: McGill University (Canada), the Chinese Academy of Sciences
 (China), the University of California (Davis and Berkeley; USA), Broad Institute (USA), Harvard
 TH Chan School of Public Health (USA), Institute for Agrobiology (Austria), University College
 Dublin (UCD; Ireland), Ghent University (Belgium), Wageningen University & Research (WUR;
 Netherlands).

 Embedded interdisciplinary research (IDR) IGFS encourages IDR and innovation, teaching
 and enterprise that links the disciplines of life sciences, medicine, environmental sciences,
 economics and social sciences, working with key stakeholders, including industry, to deliver on
 key challenges in Global Food Security. The breadth and depth of IGFS has accelerated since
 REF2014, with connections strengthened between the SBS and SMDBS and new links built with
 the Schools of Pharmacy and the Natural and Built Environment, as well as our sister GRI,
 Electronics, Communication and Information Technologies (ECIT). In 2019, IGFS appointed a
 Director for IDR to further IDR approaches to complex issues in food systems.

 b.   Organisational structure, size and context

 The Institute is led by Professor Nigel Scollan, with management overseen by a 10-member
 Management Board (MB) including the Director, Head of SBS, Deputy Director, Director for IDR,
 4 theme leads, Director of Internationalisation and a Director of Innovation. IGFS is supported by
 an Institute Manager and an administrative support team, Events and Campaign Co-ordinator
 and a Stakeholder Engagement and Communications Officer. The MB develops research and
 impact strategy and reports to Faculty and the Pro-Vice Chancellor for Research (PVC-R). IGFS
 strategic development is guided by an International Scientific Advisory Board (ISAB) and an
 Industrial Advisory Board (IAB).

 IGFS is organised into four challenge-driven themes (Figure 1; Food Integrity, Nutrition and
 Preventive Medicine, Agriculture and Environmental Resilience, with a newly introduced cross-
 cutting theme of Enabling Technologies, Data and Digital Innovation), each with a critical mass
 to deliver transformative IDR. Each theme is led by a senior academic and co-led by an ECR,
 appointed competitively, to support capacity building and succession planning. These integrated
 themes allow co-ordinated research, alongside innovation/impact and close-working with
 policymakers, businesses and other stakeholders.




                                                                                                      2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 1. Challenge-driven interdisciplinary research themes in IGFS

 c.   Research and Impact Strategy

 IGFS facilitates a vibrant and integrated research and impact environment, conducting globally
 competitive and sustainable research addressing major challenges in global food security. The
 pursuit of academic excellence, the translation of research findings and ensuring sustainability
 through a concerted focus on ‘people’ and ‘research ambition’ aligns with Queen’s corporate
 priority (see s2b). Key achievements since 2014 alongside future strategic plans include:

 Key achievements since 2014
    QUB priority research area – Strategic, sustained growth and restructuring of IGFS, leading
     to recognition by QUB as a priority research area in 2016 and establishment as one of three
     institutional GRIs.
    Building scientific capacity – Significant investment in category A staff, growing from 33.4 to
     72.8 FTE to consolidate our strengths in food integrity and animal health, grow critical mass
     in enabling technologies/data innovation, human nutrition, agriculture and environmental
     resilience and further strengthen research quality, leadership and succession planning.
     Since 2014, there has also been a substantial expansion in PhDs graduating (a 3-fold
     increase - 84 to 248). A crucial element of our strategy has also been to foster an
     environment that attracts talented ECRs, with 10 staff being ECRs (see section 2d).
    Infrastructure investments – Recent investments have strengthened the research
     environment (detailed in section 3b and c), including the new £39M state-of-the-art research
     facility and the £10M expansion of the ASSET technology centre.
    Enhancing our enterprise/industry ecosystem – Development of an enterprise hub to
     strengthen partnerships and interface with industry, both locally (e.g. £5M Agri-food QUEST
     Competence Centre), nationally and internationally (e.g. European Institute of Innovation
     and Technology (EIT) via €400M EIT-Food (see section 3a). In 2016 we constituted an
     Industry Advisory Board (IAB) to provide strategic input and advice. We have also secured
     5 x BBSRC Industry Partnerships and 1 x BBSRC Link award, 13 Knowledge Transfer
     Partnerships (KTPs) and >18 case-studentships with industry partners.
    Strengthening engagement with Government – Exemplified by Elliott, who engaged with
     both the UK and Irish governments on developing a national food system based on the
                                                                                                       3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     principles of food integrity and led the UK government’s independent review of the food
     system following the 2013 Horsemeat scandal.
    Developing inclusive collaborative team-spirited environment – Exemplified by both SBS
     and SMDBS holding SWAN Athena Gold (October 2020). Uniquely, SBS have now
     achieved Gold on 3 occasions – initial award (2013) and 2 renewals (2016 and 2020).

 Future Strategic plans
    Build additional academic excellence – foster and facilitate ECRs, grow our DTPs to train
     the next generation of IDR scientists and appoint and retain high-quality researchers and
     leaders in our challenge-led themes. IGFS will grow to 90 FTE academic staff over the next
     five years and strategic appointments will either strengthen current world-leading research
     activities or build new competencies, allowing us to better respond to global priorities.
    Further develop IDR – conduct, catalyse and deliver research which integrates key partners
     within QUB, across Ireland and together with leaders in academia, industry and policy
     worldwide to accelerate solutions to societal challenges.
    Advance existing and additional national and global academic partnerships - strengthen
     focus around transforming food systems. IGFS will further employ a truly IDR and
     innovation agenda. A major focus will be on the island of Ireland as a model of transforming
     food systems, exemplified by the establishment of a Centre for Food-Integrity, (Food-I) (see
     section 3c)
    Development of strategic alliances – exemplified by our partnership with Agri-Food
     Biosciences Institute (AFBI) in Northern Ireland, and the £30M Austrian Competence Centre
     for Feed and Food Quality, Safety & Innovation (FFoQSI), seeking to accelerate building
     and sharing capacity, both in infrastructure and people, addressing key challenges in
     agriculture and food, and supporting policy, industry and society.
    Expand and diversify the impact of our research - further increase the translation of our
     research to inform policy development, industry and society through the growth of our
     interactions with industry and the development of longer-term partnerships with multi-
     national companies, government and society. This is exemplified by our leadership and
     engagement with EU EIT-Food (see section 3a) and an embedded proactive approach to
     impact.
    IGFS is leading in the creation of the “Northern Ireland Diamond” - integrating and building a
     partnership ecosystem, in which government, business, society and the knowledge base
     work together pooling goals, funds, risks, responsibilities and competencies in agri-food.
     This will underpin innovation, growth, value and impact for the agri-food sector.
    Continue to develop and enhance our research infrastructure – We will seek additional
     investment (public-private) to enhance our research, education, enterprise and public
     engagement capacity around the new building (see section 3b). We are leading several
     projects in the innovation strand (£200m) of the Belfast Region City Deal (£1bn) (see s2d,
     s4c). As an integral partner in GII, this initiative will provide major technological advances,
     give rise to enhanced expertise in digital technology and afford new opportunities to
     harness the potential of emerging technologies in agri-food, nutrition and health care. A
     further £10M will also be invested over the next REF cycle to enhance our clinical trial
     capabilities (iREACH, see section 3c).

 Research themes - selected achievements and future plans (research and impact):

 Food Integrity
 Consisting of 10.7 FTE academic staff (1 ECR), 21.2 FTE PDRFs, 28 PhD students, this theme
 integrates diverse expertise in basic and applied research encompassing chemical contaminant
 detection, food microbiology, fraud detection and food systems traceability and transparency.
 Key strengths reside in research focused on understanding the health risks of dietary associated
 food contaminants and the development of novel approaches that can pre-emptively mitigate the
 impact of these threats on food supply chains. Since 2014 the theme has undergone significant
 expansion particularly in increasing our capacity in mass spectrometry (see section Enabling
 Technologies, Data and Data Innovation, below), strengthening our ability to develop innovative

                                                                                                    4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 approaches to detect contamination and fraud for industrial and regulatory food control
 applications.

 The renowned excellence of theme members is formalised in over £6M funding from H2020 and
 BBSRC (Campbell, Cao, Connolly, Elliott, Meharg, Mooney, Williams), allowing development of
 advanced rapid-screening of high risk microbiological and chemical contaminants through
 cutting edge technologies and enhancing the understanding of the critical importance of trace
 element biogeochemistry within food-chains for food safety and health. The theme also houses
 the UKRI-BBSRC DTP “FoodBioSystems” (£2M IGFS, £6M total, 2020-28) and the EU
 MONPLAS Innovation training network (€6M, 2020-23). Theme members have also
 demonstrated major industrial, economic and societal impact, e.g., following the aftermath of the
 2013 Horsemeat scandal, Elliott conducted the UK government review (The Elliott Review,
 which forms an impact cases), leading to a rapid expansion in food fraud and authenticity
 research activity at QUB and across the UK. Consequently, the team worked closely with
 industry to develop risk management tools and traceability systems to help mitigate the risks of
 accidental or intentional contamination and fraud to assure food integrity (Elliott, Mooney).
 Another example of industrial and economic impact is Food Fortress© (another impact case), a
 unique risk-based supply chain management tool implemented by over 70 global food/feed
 companies to ensure food authenticity. The capacity and excellence within this theme is further
 illustrated by our ability to respond rapidly to emerging priorities, for example, recent funding was
 obtained from the SFI COVID-19 Rapid Response Funding Call to ensure a resilient food supply,
 given the challenges of the current pandemic (£0.1M; Elliott). Theme members also have strong
 collaborations within the EU and international partners based on funded projects and/or co-
 authored publications, including WUR and Chinese Agricultural University, Beijing.

 Nutrition & Preventive Medicine
 Our key expertise lies in three main areas: molecular nutrition (Green, Roche, Su), biomarker
 development and discovery (Green, Woodside, Young) and nutritional epidemiology and
 randomised controlled trials (Kuhn, Cassidy, McEvoy, McKinley, Woodside). A major research
 theme focuses on plant-based diets, diet quality, biomarkers and cardiometabolic health, with
 world leaders at the Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health (Cassidy, Woodside). This work
 integrates novel analytical approaches and focuses on plant-based diets, flavonoids and a range
 of health outcomes, including cardiometabolic health/healthy ageing. This theme consists of 14.3
 FTE academic staff (4 ECRs), 27 PDRFs, 36 PhD students. Since 2014, there has been a
 significant expansion in nutrition research, which at that time was fragmented, with staff being
 returned to UoA2 and UoA6. Nutrition research is now an integral IDR component within IGFS,
 expanding from six to 14.3 FTE academic staff within the last two years.

 The renowned excellence of theme members has resulted in a prestigious US-Ireland R&D
 Partnership Programme (multi-agency funding including NIH/HRB/SFI/NI R&D Office/MRC;
 £3.25M; 2019-24; Woodside), exploring whether a panel of biomarkers can capture overall
 dietary intake/quality. Green was also awarded an US-Ireland R&D Partnership Programme
 (2019-24; £2.5M), to develop novel methods for quantifying the micronutrient queuosine. Food
 systems and sustainability studies (Nugent, McCarthy, Woodside), funded via the UK/Irish
 governments (€1.2M), use a range of research methodologies to determine whether sustainable
 diets can support nutritional requirements and health outcomes. Our expertise in nutritional
 epidemiology is underpinned by molecular nutrition, for example, a deeper understanding of the
 importance of metabolism and the gut microbiome is being realised through sustained funding
 from USDA to Cassidy with Huttenhower and Rimm (Harvard). These data are being followed-up
 in other international cohorts, including TwinsUK, EU cohorts, including German and Danish-
 based cohorts, and other US cohorts including Framingham. One of our ECR’s (McEvoy) recent
 high-profile paper in Neurology provided the evidence-base for the importance of heart-healthy
 diets to preserve cognitive function at midlife. Ongoing funded international projects will further
 explore connections between dietary patterns, brain health and cognitive ageing using
 population-based and RCT approaches (USDA, US AFAR, EU JPI). Our European nutritional
 epidemiology connections were always strong (e.g. Woodside EU H2020) exploring the health
 effects of iodine deficiency (EUThyroid; €3M); but are recently enhanced by the appointment of
                                                                                                     5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Kuhn from the University of Heidelberg, who has extensive pan-EU collaborations, including
 EPIC where he was Co-PI of the Heidelberg cohort.

 Spanning two Schools gives this theme important links to healthcare and drives impact. Direct
 links with healthcare providers are already exploited by McEvoy, McGowan and McKinley via
 two INTERREG European Funded Cross-border Healthcare Intervention Trials in Ireland
 Network (CHITIN); one exploring a multicomponent intervention for healthy neurocognitive
 ageing in patients with type 2 diabetes (£0.62M), which has been adopted by the world-wide
 FINGER network, supported by Alzheimer’s Association, and the second testing a weight
 management intervention during pregnancy (£0.56M; both EU INTERREG VA; Special EU
 Programmes Body; 2019-22). QUB is leading in data linkage between existing cohort studies
 and government administrative (education, census, health and social care) data, with a range of
 Big Data infrastructure projects, and leadership of the ESRC’s NI Administrative Data Research
 Centre and co-leadership of the Health Data Research Innovation Gateway (HDRUK) Public
 Health theme. Health and Social Care in NI, unlike anywhere else in the UK, are provided as an
 integrated service, with data held under a unique patient identifier. Such leadership is
 accompanied by the development of new cohort studies with data linkage already embedded,
 such as the NI Cohort for the Longitudinal Study of Ageing (NICOLA), where Woodside and
 Young lead on the dietary intake and biomarker analyses. NICOLA is now part of an
 international network of ageing studies, including via Dementia Platform UK.

 Agriculture and Environmental Resilience
 This theme focusses on animal health, welfare, production and environmental impact e.g.
 greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) from livestock, coupled with monitoring agricultural or climate
 change influences on ecosystem resilience e.g. changes in biodiversity, and environment
 contribution to ecosystem services. The theme consists of 31.3 FTE academic staff (3 ECRs),
 20.4 PDRFs and 81 PhD students. Whilst aspects of this theme were well established prior to
 this REF cycle, there has since been significant growth (16 new staff joined in this cycle;
 Atkinson, Capellini, Chin, Creevey, Day, Geary, Gobert, Huws, Jennings, Leavitt, McMullan,
 McVeigh, Morgan, Pincheira-Donoso, Scollan, Theodoridou), bringing enhanced capacity in
 animal and environmental microbiomes, animal nutrition/health/behaviour/welfare and global
 change biology. The theme spans from fundamental to applied sciences, the latter enhanced by
 the strong collaboration with AFBI, under the QUB-AFBI alliance.

 Our critical mass and disciplinary breadth enables strong interdisciplinarity and responsiveness
 to key priorities such as the UN sustainability goals (climate action, life above land, life below
 water, partnerships to achieve goals) and many UKRI priorities. For example, the theme is well-
 placed to help deliver on the impending deadlines to deliver on carbon neutrality by 2050, as
 agreed by the UK government via the Paris agreement through disciplinary excellence in animal
 science, parasitology, microbiology and ecology. In light of these goals and expertise, theme
 members have secured over £11M from H2020 and BBSRC, spanning development of new
 tools to discover and validate next generation drug targets in both nematode and flatworm
 parasites (BBSRC x4; NC3Rs x1; Maule, Marks, Mousley, Day); new on-farm management
 approaches to parasitism and to understand the impact of climate change on disease
 epidemiology (Morgan; BBSRC x2; BBSRC-GCRF x1; EU H2020 x1) and understanding in
 parasite-host interactions (Geary; Robinson: BBSRC x2; Kyriazakis: EU H2020 x2). We have
 also secured funding to develop novel methane mitigation strategies in ruminants at key life
 stages, coupled with understanding the fundamental mechanisms of action of these
 technologies on the gastrointestinal tract microbiome (Huws; Creevey: H2020 x2). Of major
 global significance, Allan developed the porcine circovirus 2 vaccine, the only vaccine available
 to treat porcine wasting disease, resulting in worldwide use and vaccine sales of £2.3 billion
 between 2013 and 2017 (a further impact case). This vaccine has had a global impact on pig
 health and productivity, whilst reducing GHG emissions and pig-gastrointestinal tract derived
 antimicrobial resistance.

 A further £0.5M was obtained from NERC for research-spanning ecosystem services
 (Emmerson) and land use and climate change (Caruso), enhancing our research portfolio within
                                                                                                      6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the global chain biology area. The theme, together with the School of Natural and Built
 Environment, also houses the UKRI-NERC DTP “QUADRAT” (£2.6M, 2019-2027) (see section
 2e). More recently academic staff (McGrath) have also obtained £0.4M (SFI and industry) to
 respond to the global COVID-19 pandemic through the establishment an all-island SARS-CoV-2
 wastewater surveillance network. Theme members have strong collaborations within the EU and
 international partners, based on funded projects and co-authored publications, including WUR,
 Universidade de Viçosa Brazil and UC Davis USA.

 Enabling Technologies, Data and Data Innovation

 Theme members bring leading expertise in nucleic acid, protein and metabolome-based
 metaomic technologies, alongside artificial intelligence, machine learning and precision sensor
 technologies. This is a recently established and growing theme, with substantial investment in
 people and infrastructure, including £1.5M investment in proteomics (see section 3c) and
 incorporation of 16.5 FTE academic staff (2 ECRs), 21 PDRFs, 34 PhD students into this theme.
 This theme is integral to IGFS, connecting to the other three research themes and being the
 main vehicle for connections across Faculties/GRIs (Figure 2). Members also have close
 interactions with ECIT and the planned GII. Close synergy with the QUB Genomics Core
 Technology Units (see section 3b) also aid infrastructural capacity in nucleic acid sequencing.

 The expertise within this theme has already resulted in £2M H2020 and BBSRC funding (Collins,
 Graham, Meharg, Prodhl) to develop metabolomic technologies to study marine ecosystems
 through to human health. InvestNI funding was secured to use (meta)genomic and
 (meta)proteomic technologies, coupled with computational tools to prospect microbes for novel
 bioactives, alongside their characterisation and commercialisation (Allen, with Almac; £2M).
 More recently, funding to further enhance strengths in health informatics and artificial
 intelligence/machine learning was also obtained (EPSRC GCRF, £0.4M; Hardiman). Theme
 members also have strong connections with industry in the areas of proteomics and
 metabolomics (Collins, Graham, Elliott), e.g. with Agilent, AB SciEx, Bruker and Waters,
 resulting in significant investment in equipment (see section 3c).




 Figure 2. Enabling technologies, data and data innovation and link to other research themes


                                                                                                   7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This infrastructure has led to innovations in spectrometric fingerprinting and ambient mass
 spectrometry which has been applied for real-time identification of non-conformities in feed and
 food materials (Elliott, Takats – linked to the food integrity theme), allowing for more
 comprehensive and cost-effective monitoring of complex supply chains. More recently our
 proteomic infrastructure and expertise have been used to support a multi-billion government
 initiative (Moonshot) to aid diagnosis of COVID-19 infections and to develop drugs for the
 treatment of the disease (£100K allocated to IGFS). Theme members have strong collaborations
 within the EU and international partners based on funded projects mentioned and/or co-authored
 publications, including WUR, ETH Zurich Switzerland, Max-Plank Institute Germany, California
 Institute of Technology USA.

 d.   Interdisciplinary Research (IDR)

 IGFS’s challenge-led themes allow interaction between researchers from a range of disciplines
 to address these challenges, and close links with stakeholders maximises the likely impact and
 relevance of the research, via the unique research-business-policy ecosystem. To encourage
 further interactions across the themes IGFS will:

 -    Ensure staff are at the forefront of their research discipline, integrating an IDR agenda, are
      outward facing and collaborating with world-leaders to deliver high quality IDR research.
 -    Develop ECR researchers and identify ambitious ECRs to co-lead the themes with a senior
      member of academic staff as mentor and lead.
 -    Support professional development/training of our research staff and PhD students in IDR
      research, further integrate into an IDR culture and equip them for an IDR career.
 -    Build critical mass and focus investment in our areas of strength and collaborate externally
      with world leaders in areas that are critical for leading IDR.
 -    Ensure our research strategy can respond to environmental, social and economic change.
 -    Extend global recognition and reach by further collaborating with world-leading institutes,
      industry, government and NGOs e.g. by capitalising on our position as UN IAEA designated
      centre on food and feed safety and authenticity (see section 3b) and further drive societal
      impact locally and globally, including within low and middle income countries.

 e.   Open Research

 IGFS strongly and actively support the principles of open science, supported by dedicated
 support staff. Over the last REF cycle, open access has been embedded as the norm across
 QUB, and staff have access to supporting online training (see s2f). Uploading of publications to
 PURE, to ensure compliance for REF, has been exemplary, with IGFS staff achieving 97%
 compliance. We also receive significant central support from the University to help researchers
 in managing and sharing their datasets, including via a dedicated website, training and an
 institutional data repository. Specifically, IGFS staff are also able to obtain central University
 funding to publish in open science journals and QUB have deals with many publishers, ensuring
 that publication fees are not a barrier to open access. Our research Data Management Policy
 also aligns closely to the UK concordat on Open Research Data and IGFS staff ensure that their
 research is findable, accessible, re-useable and interoperable (FAIR), ensuring that other
 researchers can engage and benefit from the research and accelerate knowledge discoveries to
 benefit both society and economy. We also subscribe to ensuring that all stakeholders are aware
 of ongoing research and funders are notified on progress, e.g. via annual Researchfish updates.

 f.   Research Integrity and ethics

 Research Integrity: The University supports the Universities UK (UUK) Concordat to Support
 Research Integrity and all IGFS staff comply with this recognised code of conduct (see s2f). For
 example, IGFS staff are encouraged to conduct their research in an open-manner to foster
 collaboration and ensure the highest level of integrity e.g. through provision of seminars,
 webinars and/or taking part in ‘sandpit’ research scoping activity. All staff have been assigned a
 mentor (if an ECR) or a Personal Development Reviewer, who also play a critical role in
                                                                                                       8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ensuring maintenance of the highest standard of research integrity within IGFS. Any breach in
 expected conduct is dealt with by the QUB PVC-R.

 Research Governance and Ethics: QUB Research and Enterprise Directorate manages
 research governance and ethics and advises academics on governance issues (see s2f). The
 directorate have implemented regulations, policies and procedures that must be complied with
 for research involving humans and/or animals. IGFS takes a proactive approach to ensuring
 compliance with legislation and institutional policies. All research undergoes scrutiny by the
 Faculty-based ethics committee, the Office for Research Ethics Committees in Northern Ireland
 (for health service-based research) or the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986 committee
 (for non-human animal-related research). All research projects must be logged in an online
 University database, for the purposes of insurance and monitoring ethical or governance issues
 that they raise. Staff must indicate any ethical requirements in the online portal and in addition,
 sign off on any grant application is conditional on the HoS being satisfied that the research can
 be conducted ethically. IGFS staff are also encouraged to avail of internal grant peer review
 procedures which aid both research excellence and compliance to integrity and ethical codes of
 conduct.

 IGFS have a team of staff who aid researchers in ensuring all research is conducted safely and
 ethically, e.g. a Health and Safety Co-ordinator, COSHH Adviser, Radiation Protection Adviser,
 Biohazards/GMO Safety Adviser, Environmental/Fieldwork Adviser, Human Tissue Act Adviser.
 In addition, our staff are active members of the University Biological Safety Committee (Grant &
 Stewart), the Health and Safety Compliance group (Prodhl), Faculty Ethics committee (Chaired
 by McKinley and attended by Arnott). Staff requiring the use of the Biological Safety Unit’s
 animal house (a QUB Core Technology Unit) are subject to the standard operating procedures
 and ethics governance of the facility. It is important to note that these members of staff,
 alongside central university Estates and Health and Safety staff, ensure that health and safety
 procedures are developed and complied with in light of recent COVID-19 challenges. This
 dedication resulted in the safe re-opening of laboratories in early July 2020, minimising COVID-
 19 impact, albeit at much reduced capacity.

 2. People

 a.   Overview

 Our stated strategy at REF2014 was to grow IGFS from 33.4 to 45 FTEs. We have exceeded
 this ambitious target, creating a thriving community of 72.8 FTEs (a 2.2-fold increase), building
 our critical mass across four IDR themes. To further maximise interdisciplinarity and strengthen
 links with world leading research institutes and major government and industry research
 facilities, we have invested in cross-school appointments (Cassidy), appointed staff in other
 Schools (McEvoy, McGowan), jointly with other Universities (Bourke, Roche, Fanning (University
 College Dublin), Leavitt (University of Regina), Day (Iowa State University), Geary (McGill
 University), Takats (Imperial College London), Vanhaecke (Ghent University), van Ruth (WUR)
 and Kyriazakis as a joint appointment with AFBI. These research leader appointments have
 been complemented by investment in research and support staff to enhance our research,
 education, enterprise and public engagement agenda (see below).

 b.   Staffing profile and recruitment

 Academic Staff: The more than doubling of our academic staff over the REF cycle has ensured
 longer-term stability, adaptability and effective succession planning. Our thriving community now
 includes 72.8 FTEs (36 Professors, 24 Senior Lecturers/Readers, 20 Lecturers (50% are ECRs;
 Atkinson, Cameron, Chin, Kuhn, Kumaresan, Megaw, McEvoy, McGowan, McVeigh, McCarthy)
 (Table 1).



                                                                                                       9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Table 1. Profile of IGFS staff and current PhD students by theme


                                                        Academic       ECRs     PDRFs      PhD
                                                        staff (FTE)                        students
     Food Integrity                                     10.7           1        21.2       28
     Nutrition & Preventive Medicine                    14.3           4        27         36
     Agriculture & Environmental Resilience             31.3           3        20.4       81
     Enabling Technologies, Data & Data Innovation      16.5           2        21         34
     Total                                              72.8           10       89.6       179

 A central tenet of the Institute’s strategic direction has been to enhance excellence and
 strengthen research leadership (through new senior appointments) to complement existing
 expertise and build core activities targeted for development, exemplified by the appointment of
 Collins, Graham, Hardiman to lead on a new cross cutting ‘Enabling Technologies, Data and
 Data Innovation’ theme, supported by 2 new ECR appointments and linked into the new GII (see
 section 3b) and Cassidy as Director for IDR and Chair in Nutrition & Preventive Medicine.
 Nutrition research is now an integral component within IGFS, expanding from 6 to 14.3 FTE
 academic staff (4 ECRs) within the last two years. Similarly, we have grown capacity in the
 Agricultural and Environmental Resilience theme, expanding from 10 to 31.3 FTEs (3 ECRs),
 within the last three years. New academic appointments across IGFS have helped maintain a
 balanced staff portfolio that includes ECRs to ensure appropriate succession planning, but also
 make new appointments in high priority areas. Over the next REF cycle we aim to build further
 capacity (to 90 FTEs) in the area of climate action, agricultural microbiomes and digital
 agriculture, plant-based diets and cardiometabolic health, food integrity, all of strategic
 importance to UKRI, other national/international government agencies, multinational industry
 and aligned to UN sustainable development goals.

 Appointments to enhance engagement, impact and innovation: To complement this growth in
 academic staff and to accelerate engagement with stakeholders and further build our impact
 agenda we have secured investment from sources including the Royal Society and EU to recruit
 senior staff to key strategic roles, supporting our research strategy. To guide our strategic
 development we have set-up an ISAB board, made up of world leaders across the food security
 research agenda and an IAB populated by leaders in commerce and policy development.

 Examples of specific roles created:

       Director of Innovation
        Appointed in 2016 to lead the £6.7M Agri-Food Quest Competence Centre (AFQCC),
        Stephane Durand has driven our enterprise interface regionally via AFQCC and
        internationally through EIT-Food (see section 3a). Five further professional support staff are
        employed to leverage industry opportunities, maintain communications with key partners
        and optimise EIT-Food/AFQCC networks to provide internships and placements for PhD
        students and PDRFs.

       Business Alliance Manager (see s2d, s4b)
        Dr Ann McMahon provides dedicated support for IGFS business alliance, integrated within
        the QUB Research and Enterprise directorate.

       Director of Strategic Alliances
        Appointed 2017, Paul Brereton, Professor of Practice works at the science-policy interface
        in UK, Ireland and Europe and is specifically focussed on building large EU-wide networks
        in Food Integrity.


                                                                                                      10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     Royal Society Entrepreneur in Residence
      In 2020 Dr Jean Kennedy joined IGFS as ‘Royal Society Entrepreneur in Residence’ to
      further foster an entrepreneurial culture, accelerate translation of engagement and
      commercial success with industry and enhance our knowledge of cutting-edge industrial
      science, research and innovation.

 c.   Staff development and career progression

 Our staff development strategy is to create interdisciplinary food system research leaders who
 are productive, well-networked and entrepreneurial-thinking, producing cutting-edge impactful
 knowledge and research to drive and actively transform food systems; skills that have been
 prioritised by UKRI, GCRF/Newton, DAERA, DEFRA and industry, and aligned to UN
 Sustainable Development goals. Our IDR themes are led by professorial researchers and co-led
 by ECRs to encourage involvement of junior colleagues in strategy and decision-making
 processes, supporting succession planning. Staff engagement in IGFS activities is facilitated
 through monthly theme meetings and quarterly IGFS board meetings to ensure all research staff
 are involved, informed and play a key role in shaping future strategic direction. All staff have the
 opportunity to join committees responsible for fundraising, health and safety, infrastructure,
 management, research strategy, PG training/progression and Athena SWAN.

 Until 2019 QUB employed an annual appraisal scheme but, from 2019, in response to staff
 feedback, this was replaced with a new Personal Development Review (PDR), which focuses on
 positive development of staff on a continual basis rather than annual (see s3a). PDR is a one-to-
 one programme which is complemented by existing QUB-wide mentoring schemes (e.g.
 Queen’s Gender Initiative scheme) and teams all academic staff with a reviewer from outside
 their direct line management structure to provide continuous support, facilitate career
 development and ensure all employees have the opportunity for regular, meaningful,
 constructive conversations. Central to the process is the generation of agreed development
 plans that are closely mapped against academic grade profiles to encourage progression
 towards promotion.

 IGFS values equality and diversity and has a culture that embraces the Concordat to support
 career development of researchers, including as co-leads of research themes. QUB is one of
 only nine Silver Institutional SWAN award holders, and both SBS and SMDBS hold SWAN
 Athena Gold (2020). Uniquely, SBS have now achieved Gold on 3 occasions – initial award
 (2013) and 2 renewals (2016 and 2020).

 Training in research leadership, management and entrepreneurial thinking is key to create global
 leaders in food systems. A variety of leadership programmes, suitable for different categories of
 IGFS staff and students are offered, e.g. by the William J Clinton Leadership Institute and
 Graduate School and the external Aurora leadership development programme for women and
 the European Nutrition Leadership programme at early and advanced levels. This is
 complemented by extensive specialist and transferable skills training and visible People and
 Culture teams in each School to support all IGFS staff. University policies are family friendly
 (e.g. flexible working, maternity/paternity/adoption/carers leave). In IGFS, 5 staff work part-time,
 exemplifying our support for flexible working.

 New Staff Appointments: Mentors ensure new appointees experience a friendly and supportive
 environment that helps guide them towards confirmation in post. All new lecturer-level staff
 benefit from the provision of essential research/office facilities, start-up funding (appropriate to
 grade), a three-year restriction on teaching load and a fully-funded PhD studentship.
 Collaboration with established staff is encouraged. New staff can avail of support targeted at the
 development of international linkages through funding schemes that support international
 research visits and seed new projects. These include GCRF awards from the Department for the
 Economy (DfE) and the joint QUB-FAPESP São Paulo Researchers in International
 Collaboration (SPRINT) initiative which instigate pilot projects and staff exchanges.

                                                                                                    11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Career Progression: During this REF cycle 26 staff (46% female and 54% male) were promoted
 to Senior Lecturer or Reader and 11 staff were promoted to Professor (73% female and 27%
 male).

 d.   ECRs and post-doctoral fellows (PDRFs)

 Fifty per cent of our staff at Lecturer level are ECRs and 89.6 PDRFs are currently employed in
 IGFS (Table 1). We support these colleagues to develop their skills and training to achieve
 scientific independence, produce high quality research that has potential for impact and build
 sustainable partnerships with supervisors, mentors and world leaders in their research area. In
 2018, the Faculty of Medicine, Health and Life Sciences launched a Post-Doctoral Development
 Centre, in which IGFS fully participates. This centre offers bespoke support and training to our
 PDRFs including (1) Welcoming new PDRFs and facilitating the transition from being a PGR, (2)
 Supporting the work of PDRFs, (3) Facilitating the career development of PDRFs, in academia
 and beyond, (4) Communicating career development and training opportunities, (5) Promoting
 industry and public engagement, (6) Influencing relevant University policies and (6) Promoting
 the recognition of PDRFs. This is complemented by the newly established university-wide QUB
 Fellowship Academy in 2020 which provides bespoke professional and career development to
 nurture PDRFs with outstanding potential (see s3b).

 We mentor scientists applying to research fellowship schemes or grant-supported post-doctoral
 posts, advancing careers by providing tailored support for preparing for fellowships (exemplified
 by review boards for MRC Future Leaders, GCRF and BBSRC Discovery Fellowships,
 mentoring by past awardees). In this REF cycle, 12 young scientists in UoA6 have been
 awarded fellowships: 6x Marie Curie fellowships, 2x Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships, 1x
 Illuminate/Vice chancellor fellowship, 1x EPSRC DEFRA Fellow, 1x Royal Society Newton
 Fellowship and 1x MRC Early Career Research Fellow. Our ECRs have the opportunity to
 participate in the QUB Excellence in Leadership and Management Development Programme to
 strengthen and build their research leadership skills and to join the vibrant Postdoc Society
 within IGFS which has representation on management committees and co-ordinates the IGFS
 seminar programme. Other key leadership opportunities include ECRs as co-leaders of each of
 our 4 IDR themes.

 Since REF2014, on an annual basis, an average of 65 research fellows have been employed in
 IGFS, funded from a range of sources including UKRI, EU and industry (and from diverse
 countries including UK, EU, Africa Brazil, China). Seven of our PDRFs have progressed to
 lectureships in this REF cycle.

 e.   PGR Students

 Concomitant with the growth of IGFS has been a rapidly expanding doctoral student research
 community. In this REF cycle, 248 students completed their doctoral training and currently 179
 PhD students are being trained (Table 1). Since 2014 we have far exceeded our strategic goal of
 doubling postgraduate student numbers. The international reach of our programmes is
 evidenced by ~20% of the PhD students graduated coming from outside the UK and ~7% being
 non-EU international students. Further growth in graduate student numbers will predominantly
 come from our DTPs (see below) and ongoing exchange programmes with China, Brazil, India,
 Malaysia and Thailand, including the Universidade de Viçosa, Minas Gerais, Brazil and Nanjing
 Agricultural University, China.

 Training in IDR, research leadership and entrepreneurial thinking is key to creating a new
 generation of global leaders in food systems. Since 2014, IGFS has attracted funding for two
 cohort-based DTPs, nationally and internationally, including the UKRI-NERC DTP “QUADRAT”
 (£2.6M, 2019-27), co-hosted with the School of the Natural and Built Environment) and the
 UKRI-BBSRC DTP “FoodBioSystems”(£2.0M, 2020-28). For example, QUADRAT, is a
 substantial programme of multidisciplinary training for 100 doctoral students built around
 translating cutting-edge research into policy and practice for the effective stewardship of natural
                                                                                                    12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 capital and resource management. It also involves 34 partner and sponsor organisations,
 including Syngenta, Agriculture and Horticulture Development Board and Centre for Ecology and
 Hydrology.

 This sustainable support for research training is further enhanced by on average 20 x 3-year
 doctoral studentships per annum from the NI DfE and DAERA (latter through competitive-bid).
 The Institute also currently hosts two Marie Curie Industrial Training Networks
 (PhoneSmartPhone, 2017-21; PROTECTED, 2017-20) and has recently been awarded a third
 (MONPLAS, 2020-23), with 12 PGR students each and £5.6M over 2014-2020. Other funded
 PhD studentships include from the Irish Agriculture and Food Development Authority (1-2 per
 annum) and a range of charitable and industrial sources (examples include case awards with
 Morrison’s on environmental impact of livestock and Waters to further develop REIMS
 technology for food authenticity). There are currently two fellows within IGFS under the SPARK
 programme, a H2020-funded Marie Skłodowska-Curie DTP, while another has just been offered
 a position under the newly funded CITI-GENS (Collaboration in Training and Innovation for
 Growing, Evolving and Networked Societies), a further Marie Skłodowska-Curie DTP).

 As outlined in our Institutional Statement (s3c) QUB invested £7M in a dedicated social and
 academic space for its postgraduate students in 2015 as a vibrant centre for academic
 exchange across science, arts and humanities. The Graduate School ensures IGFS post-
 graduate students have access to world-class facilities, Researcher Plus recognition and skills
 training, including in innovation and strategic leadership/management. QUB has also recently
 rolled out a tailored Postgraduate Career Development Programme which offers training in key
 areas, including Employability, Enterprise and Innovation, Personal and Professional Skills
 Development and Research Skills as part of their annual 10 days of training. In addition to
 routine, informal supervisor-student interactions, PhDs complete 10 formal supervisory meetings
 each year and give a presentation at the annual IGFS Postgraduate Research Symposium.
 Whilst PGs attend the regular seminars given by visiting research leaders and IGFS academics,
 the mix of student presentations and social events within the symposium week have enhanced
 the sense of identity and PGR integration into IGFS. PhD students are encouraged to apply for
 external training opportunities, with a number successfully participating in schemes such as the
 Parliamentary Office for Science and Technology (POST) fellowship.

 Integrated Research Student Culture: The Postgraduate Research Committee oversees the
 development of PG research programmes and monitors all formal PG progression elements. All
 students have a minimum of two supervisors and, if one is on probation, the other must be a
 senior academic. Students are also allocated an assessor who serves as a person who monitors
 their progress throughout their time in IGFS but also acts as a further mentor. Our rigorous
 monitoring and reporting regime requires each student to complete an Initial Review at three
 months, Differentiation at 6-9 months and annual reports at the end of each academic year.
 Individual Review Panels at each stage provide specific, independent advice and help identify
 any potential performance issues. Where problems are identified, intermediary targets are
 agreed with student and supervisors to facilitate progression.

 f.   Equality and diversity (see s3d)

 Our dedication to equality and diversity is exemplified by our two Athena SWAN Gold awards,
 and Silver Institutional SWAN award. We adopt all the QUB equality policies and, specifically,
 the gender actions outlined in Athena Swan commitments including: (i) providing Unconscious
 Bias Training; (ii) monitoring gender ratios for academic progression; and (iii) conducting exit
 surveys of programme graduates to establish career intentions. Our commitment to increase the
 diversity of our student population is exemplified by our current cohort of students from over 50
 different countries.

 We monitor gender statistics at all levels, from work experience placements to professorial
 advancement and implement practical measures such as research-only periods for academics
 returning from maternity leave. Our 2016 action plan addressed several gender parity
                                                                                                 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 bottlenecks in the academic pipeline and implemented key actions to improve gender balance;
 42% of IGFS academic staff and 54% of research staff are female. Our MB is 50% female. Of
 the 39.4 FTE additional academics in this REF2021 submission, 23 are female. IGFS prides
 itself on its collegial and inclusive culture which goes beyond the policies and services provided
 by the University. Three IGFS academics are SWAN champions, leading the Athena SWAN
 applications for their respective Schools. We lead on some key equality and diversity issues
 exemplified by McKinley heading the Gender Equality Office and Woodside as academic lead for
 mentoring within SMDBS. In terms of promotion, the 6-year average success rate for females
 and males is 72 and 64%, respectively.

 IGFS engages closely with PRISM (the QUB LGBT staff network) and iRise (the university’s
 Black, Asian, Minority, Ethnic (BAME) and International Staff Network), celebrating the diversity
 of our staff and promoting the Institute and University as a welcoming place to work. Dean
 currently leads a BAME taskforce initiative for the University on behalf of the Vice-Chancellor.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 a.   Overview of research grants/income and strategies for funding

 Since 2014, our research income has increased 3-fold to £59.1M and become more diverse
 (14.9% UKRI, 37.1% EU and 5.8% from non-EU sources (predominantly US government, Gates
 Foundation)).

 Our ongoing strategy to sustain and increase research income has 5 elements:

      a. Further increase success rates by continuing mandatory internal and Faculty peer review
         of UKRI grant applications from ECRs and probationary staff (including grant-building
         sandpits).
      b. Capitalise on support for strategic partnerships, DTPs (e.g. include guaranteed PhD
         studentships for all awards >£500k, matched studentships/support staff costs for DTPs),
         sabbaticals/secondments to better position us for IDR global initiatives.
      c. Ensure mentorship of staff through our PDR programme (personal development,
         enhancing grantsmanship, instilling importance of networking with world leaders)
      d. Further build ‘team science’ through our IDR themes so we are optimally positioned to
         influence and respond to large national/global initiatives.
      e. Further build and strengthen our enterprise/industry ecosystem internationally (e.g.
         through EIT-Food (see below).

 A major focus is on translation and commercialisation of research, ensuring we are closely
 aligned and able to influence and respond to UKRI and H2020 initiatives. For example, IGFS is
 the base for Agri-Food QUEST, a membership-based, industry-led Innovation Centre for the
 agri-food businesses in NI (£6.7M, 2015-20) focused on supporting the NI Agri-Food Strategy
 Board "Going For Growth” strategy which aims to grow the agri-business sector by 60% to £7bn.
 This investment positioned us for a leading strategic role in EIT-Food. To date IGFS has
 received €5M (2018-2020); one of the top three beneficiaries of EIT Food investment, but EIT-
 Food also provides opportunities for research internships, and technical/business focused
 training. To enhance research translation, we have established sustainable research
 partnerships with major industries, e.g. multiple joint UK/EU government/industrial funding
 awards (13 KTP/RCUK-LINK/InvestNI co-funded industrial partnership awards over this REF
 cycle). We have also had significant success with KTP projects, including recent awards to: 1)
 reduce the impact of intensive animal farming on climate change/land use; and 2) address
 micronutrient deficiencies associated with plant-based diets.

 Examples of success by themes include:

 Food integrity: Significant EU funding in food safety research awarded, including €10M through
 joint funding from H2020 and the Chinese Ministry of Science and Technology (MOST) for IGFS-
                                                                                              14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 led research on food authenticity. Recent awards include The MONPLAS ITN project (€6M,
 2020-23) to develop robust, easy to use and inexpensive technologies to perform in situ
 detection of micro and nano-plastic contaminants within the environment, GCRF funding (£0.5M,
 2019-22) on agronomic sustainability has combined state-of-the-art analytical and molecular
 approaches to interrogate soil-plant biogeochemical cycles and develop food safety
 interventions in developing countries with a focus on toxins in rice in Bangladesh and China.

 Nutrition & Preventive Medicine: Recent awards include €1.2M (2020-24) to determine
 whether sustainable diets can support nutritional requirements, $1.5M (2020-23) from US Dept
 of Agriculture to conduct complex interventions and population-based studies on plant-based
 diet and cardiometabolic health, £3.25M (2019-24) from the US-Ireland R&D Partnership
 Programme (NIH/HRB/SFI/NI R&D Office/MRC) to develop a panel of dietary biomarkers, £2.5M
 (2019-24) from US-Ireland R&D Partnership Programme to develop novel methods for
 quantifying the micronutrient queuosine and $1.75M (2020-23) from the US National Institutes of
 Ageing on dementia biomarkers.

 Agriculture and Environmental Resilience: Since 2017, with the appointments of Huws and
 Creevey, a platform for microbiome research in relation to agriculture and climate change has
 been developed, leveraging €2M H2020, a series of EU JPIs (€1.5M) and strategic links to the
 Global Research Alliance in Agriculture and Greenhouse Gases (GRA). In animal health, recent
 awards include 7 awards from UKRI (e.g. 9 BBSRC awards, £5M, one a BBSRC-Link with
 Boeringer-Manheim; £1.2M) and 3 x H2020 (€3M), to study livestock health and parasite
 function.

 Enabling Technologies, Data and Data Innovation: Examples of recent awards include £2M
 from H2020 and BBSRC funding to develop metaomic technologies to study marine ecosystems
 through to human health. InvestNI and Almac industrial funding (£2M) was also secured to use
 (meta)genomic and (meta)proteomic technologies, coupled with computational tools to prospect
 microbes for novel bioactives, alongside their characterisation and commercial development.

 Early Career Researcher success: The success of our ECRs is evidenced by recent success
 of 3 ECRs:

 Atkinson - £1.2M BBSRC (Co-I, 2019-22), £100k Academy of Medical Sciences (PI, 2018-21)
 McEvoy - €0.68M EU JPI (PI, 2021-24)
 Cameron - £0.11M BBSRC (PI, 2020-24)

 b.   Organisational infrastructure and support for research and impact

 During this REF Cycle, the foundation of IGFS as a GRI in 2016 has led to unprecedented
 physical development to drive our position as a global leader in food security.

 Investments and plans to sustain growth: The current REF cycle has included continued support
 for IGFS: started in 2013, an international fundraising campaign (designated Beyond) by the
 QUB Foundation in support of transformational projects (including £10M towards the new IGFS
 building) reached its target of £140M one year ahead of schedule. The design of the IGFS £39M
 building, the move to have all IGFS staff under one roof and the shared laboratory environment
 maximises interactions and reinforces the drive towards more IDR research. Looking forward, a
 series of high-level engagements with major industries/leading companies are underway with a
 view to additional infrastructure investments to extend the new building.

 Global Innovation Institute (GII)
 As an integral partner in the GII (see s4C) this initiative will provide major technological
 advances, give rise to enhanced expertise in digital technology affording new opportunities for
 IGFS to harness the potential of emerging technologies in agri-food, nutrition and healthcare to
 enable a transformational One Health approach.

                                                                                                    15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ASSET Lab
 The ASSET Technology Centre became the world’s first accredited laboratory for the detection
 of herb and spice adulteration using a non-targeted molecular spectroscopy method (UKAS ISO
 17025), leading, in 2019, to an ISO accreditation for authenticity testing of herbs and spices, a
 particularly rare achievement. Recently, the UN IAEA designated IGFS as an IAEA Collaborating
 Centre recognising its global reach in food safety, authenticity and traceability. IGFS is also a
 ‘Food Authenticity Centre of Expertise’ following acknowledgement of its proficiency in July 2020
 by DEFRA, the UK FSA and Food Safety Scotland; QUB is the only University to hold this
 status.

 Core Technology Units
 QUB houses 4 Core Technology Units: Genomics, Advanced Informatics, Biological Services
 and Advanced Imaging. These facilities are available to all staff, operating at low-cost and are
 complimented by the recent investment in high performance computational infrastructure (£6M),
 which recently obtained Tier 2 status, resulting in QUB being one of the few universities globally
 with this level of capability.

 Clinical trial facilities
 Our existing clinical trial facilities are state-of-the-art but, through Belfast City Deal investment
 (innovation strand, iREACH), a further £10M will be invested over the next REF cycle to further
 enhance our clinical research capabilities.

 Targeted Internal Initiatives:
  ESRC Impact accelerator fund
     £1M to tackle major societal challenges globally, examples include overcoming the
     challenges of the global ban on Zinc oxide in pig feed supplementation by 2022, and
     formulating novel treatments for Blackhead disease in poultry.
    Global Challenge networking programme
     GCRF funding provided by DfE supports up to £25k for pump-priming activities (including
     workshops/pilot projects). Recent examples include funding to build a network on climate
     change in Brazil, and parasitology projects in Azerbaijan.
  Illuminate Vice-Chancellor Fellowship Scheme
     A 5 year position with an academic career path. IGFS was awarded one of three
     (Cameron).
    DfE and DAERA studentships -18-22 studentships per year were allocated to IGFS over the
     current REF period. In addition we compete for additional CASE DfE studentships annually,
     winning 3-4 per annum.
  Engaged Research Seed Fund
     Recent examples include funding to install an on-street audio installation (Poetry Jukebox,
      2021) an innovative way to integrate arts and science, using poetry to showcase the
      complexities of food systems and the debates needed to shape the future of food systems.
  IGFS travel and pilot grant fund
     Providing funding, mainly targeted at ECRs, to travel and spend time in world leading
     laboratories, networking opportunities through a competitive ‘Internationalisation Funding
     Scheme’.

 Support for research and impact: Our 60-strong central Research and Enterprise Directorate
 provides support for research, commercialisation, ethics and governance (see s4b). IGFS have
 additional dedicated internal support (see section 2b).

 c.   Operational infrastructure, facilities and specialist equipment

 The growth in staff numbers has been accompanied by investment in facilities, refurbishment
 and expansion (>£55M) exemplified by our new state-of-the-art building. Since occupying the
 building in April 2019 we have invested >£5 million in new technologies to ensure we are at the


                                                                                                         16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 cutting edge of our fields. Outlined below are the major investments in this REF cycle and our
 ongoing plans:

 Enabling technologies and data innovation investment: There are 4 Core Technology Units
 (section 3b). Physical resources encompass bespoke analytical, bioanalytical, molecular
 biological, genomics, proteomic, cell/tissue culture and bioimaging laboratory space. The
 Bioimaging Core Technology Unit hosts flow cytometry, microscopy, live cell and in vivo imaging
 system facilities, high resolution slide scanning and microinjection equipment and a dedicated
 server for data storage and remote access. Capacity in genomics includes an ABI 3730XL 96
 Capillary DNA analyser for high-throughput Sanger sequencing and microsatellite genotyping.
 Advanced informatics is strongly linked to the new GII. Another major addition is in high-
 throughput MS-based proteomics. Investment has included recruitment of senior academic staff
 (Readers in Proteomics (Collins, ETH Zurich and Graham, Manchester), £1.5M to acquire a
 suite of modern MS devices (x3 Brucker and SCIEX) and associated technical support
 (Research Technician/PDRF x2).

 The ASSET Technology Centre (see section 3b) has had continued infrastructure development
 within the assessment period (£10M) to further enhance its unique, custom-built technologies
 that draw on inter-disciplinary skill-sets that support the development of innovative strategies
 and techniques in animal and human health, food safety monitoring and traceability, providing a
 niche food-forensic strength for IGFS. ASSET has had a long-standing relationship with Waters
 Corporation and addition of REIMS technology further enhances our technological capabilities.
 We have recently extended our relationship with Agilent, resulting in investment in additional MS
 capabilities (£1.5M). ASSET also houses in-kind donations of spectrometry (triple quadrupole,
 Q-TOF-, LC-TOF-, GC-, isotope ratio and ICP-mass spectrometry), spectroscopy (XRF, confocal
 Raman microspectroscopy) and biosensor equipment from a range of companies, including
 Waters, Agilent, Thermo-Fisher. ASSET is a sector leader in the development and exploitation of
 biosensor technologies for food safety and integrity.

 The Centre for Plasma in Agri-Food (AgriPlas) opened June 2019, funded through the Centre for
 Innovation Excellence in Livestock (CIEL), with £0.4M investment from Innovate UK and builds
 on our existing expertise in plasma knowledge. A team of IDR scientists (physicists,
 pharmacists, animal-health experts, feed and food safety experts and analytical chemists)
 develop cold plasma technology-based solutions that lead to reduced use of chemicals and
 antibiotics in food-production systems, ultimately enhancing the sustainability and global
 marketability of the NI, UK and international agri-food industry. This facility is the first of its kind
 in Europe.

 Animal and marine facilities: Researchers have access to state-of-the-art animal house/holding
 facilities. Parasite behaviour assessment to validate parasite drug and vaccine targets for
 industrial partners encompass purpose-built bioassay systems, motor function and muscle assay
 rigs and a range of computational behavioural analysis platforms that provide a unique facility
 dedicated to parasite functional genomics. Animal production, health and welfare researchers
 have a collaborative large animal base at AFBI. The pig unit includes specialised facilities for
 behaviour and welfare research containing open-field test arenas and electronic feeders. A dairy
 unit comprises a 300 high-genetic dairy herd with access to detailed animal records (genetics,
 health, productivity). IGFS also houses unique and rare capabilities within our marine facilities
 (Queen’s Marine Laboratory; QML), an established aquatic mesocosm research platform with
 direct access to Strangford Lough, a Special Area of Conservation under the EU Habitats
 Directive, and Northern Ireland's first Marine Conservation Zone under the EU Marine Strategy
 Framework Directive.

 Clinical trial facilities: Human study facilities are co-located on the same sites as our major
 medical specialty tertiary referral Centres (Royal Victoria Hospital and Belfast City Hospital),
 making them ideal for the recruitment of clinical populations, with an accompanying interview,
 biological sample collection and storage suite within CPH, and full clinical research capability
 within the Wellcome Trust-Wolfson Northern Ireland Clinical Research Facility. CPH provides
                                                                                                       17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 state-of-the-art statistical expertise, and methodological innovation for designing and analysing
 clinical trials and nutritional epidemiological research and is also the home to the Northern
 Ireland Clinical Trials Unit (NICTU), a UK Clinical Research Collaboration (UKCRC)-registered
 Clinical Trials Unit. These facilities are supported by the facilities within IGFS (ASSET) for the
 analysis of established and novel nutrition/health biomarkers. Such omics technologies are
 currently being used within a £2.5M US-Ireland award designed to develop new micronutrient-
 focused biomarkers. Through the Belfast City Deal investment (innovation strand, iREACH,
 £10M) additional clinical research infrastructure will be established.

 Sustained engagement with Industry: Ongoing University support has also been secured for the
 development of a dedicated site adjacent to the new building for industry and other partners to
 ‘hot-desk’ and engage with IGFS researchers. Looking forward, a series of high-level
 engagements with major industries/leading companies are underway with a view to additional
 infrastructure investments.

 Future plans include:

     Development of a partnership with UK National Measurement Laboratory (NML at
      Laboratory of Government Chemist). NML is the UK’s designated institute ensuring trust
      and confidence in chemical and bio-measurements. The intention, which is in advanced
      planning stages, is to create a Centre of Excellence in Agriculture and Food Integrity
      delivered by IGFS as part of the NML network with an overarching aim to further promote
      and strengthen academic and industry links between NML, the University, and UK agri-food
      industries.
     Establishment of an All-Island Centre on Food Integrity (Food-I). The aim is to employ an
      IDR and innovation agenda focused on the island of Ireland as a model of transforming food
      systems towards a more environmentally and economically sustainable, transparent agri-
      food sector with potential funding earmarked from SFI and DfE £40m).
     Eden Project Foyle - an ambitious and potentially transformative project in terms of
      economic development, education, the environment and social inclusion. IGFS will be
      research partners providing a focus on the environment and wellbeing. Built on the
      experience of the Eden Project in Cornwall, through partnership with Foyle River Gardens
      Trust, the project will assist in the regeneration of Derry/Londonderry generating £62.3M per
      annum and supporting 2,233 jobs. Support comes from British/Irish governments, as
      described in the New Decade, New Approach Deal (January 2020).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 a.   Overview

 The re-modelling and growth of our core challenge-led research themes over the REF period
 ensures that IGFS staff are better placed to co-ordinate research and build relationships with
 policy makers, businesses and other key stakeholder organisations. We collaborate with world
 leaders in our field exemplified by long-standing collaborations with UC Davis, Harvard, WUR,
 Chinese Academy of Sciences and ETH Zurich and evidenced by the high levels of international
 co-authorship (66% - 2014-20 (Russell group average 55.1%). Our researchers have made
 substantial contributions to industry including (1) the development of the porcine circovirus 2
 vaccine, the only vaccine available to treat porcine wasting disease (Allan), resulting in
 worldwide use and vaccine sales of >£2.3 billion; (2) Food Fortress©, a unique world leading
 risk-based supply chain management tool established in 2014 and now implemented by >70
 global food/feed companies; (3) following the 2013 European Horsemeat Scandal, Elliott was
 commissioned by UK Government to conduct a review of the UK food supply system. The ‘Elliott
 Review’ resulted in establishment of a National and Scottish Food Crime Unit and a UK wide
 Food Industry Intelligence Network. Recent examples of successful engagement and impact
 include the implementation of hand-held sensor technologies developed and validated into on-
 line quality control testing of raw materials.

                                                                                                      18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 b.   Academic collaborations and contribution to the wider academic community

 Academic collaborations with world-leaders: IGFS staff have developed enduring collaborations
 with some of the most esteemed research institutions in the field including: the Chinese
 Academy of Sciences (China), Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health, Broad Institute, UC
 Davis and Berkeley, NASA Ames Research Center (US), McGill, Alberta (Canada), University of
 Stellenbosch, Free University of Berlin, Universidade de Viçosa, ETH Zurich, WUR.

 Cross School/Faculty collaborations – IGFS is embedded in SBS with major links to SMDBS and
 more recently other Schools/Faculties/GRIs. Examples include H2020 and BBSRC projects
 addressing improvements in animal health, welfare and environmental impact of livestock
 systems through use of AI (Kyriazakis) with ECIT; InvestNI AFQCC exploring novel approaches
 to recovery and recycling of phosphorus from waste (McGrath) with Chemistry & Chemical
 Engineering; BBSRC EnvironSafe: cold plasma innovations for food safety and sustainability
 (Elliott) with Schools of Pharmacy, Mathematics and Physics.

 National collaborations – We have participated and led numerous UKRI, Innovate UK and All
 Ireland SFI/DAFM/DAERA projects. Examples include parasite control (BBSRC, Maule and
 University of Liverpool); SFI project addressing methane abatement in ruminants
 (Huws/Creevey, University of Galway and Teagasc).

 International collaborations – Academics have participated and led a diverse range of EU FP
 networks since 2014 including EU-CHINASAFE, FOODINTEGRITY, AUTHENT-NET, Vivaldi,
 ECO-FCE EU JPI. Recent EU networks have led to success in H2020, including MASTER
 (€10.9M, Creevey, Huws, 2019-23). The sustained nature of the collaborations is exemplified by
 visiting Professorial positions, include e.g. Elliott (Chinese Agricultural University, Beijing);
 Cassidy (Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health, US), Krska (Chinese Academy of
 Agricultural Sciences).

 Examples of our thriving academic collaborations by theme include:

 Food Integrity: Cao has developed extensive collaborations with leading researchers in the
 area of (bio)analytical sensing and diagnostic tools for food safety/quality analyses including at
 Nanyang Technological University of Singapore (Qihua) and Technical University of Denmark
 (Wolff, Bang). Recent successes include participation in the EU FoodSmartPhone and
 MONPLAS (led by Aston University UK) to develop on-site analytical tools for monitoring
 contaminants including micro and nano-plastics in water. A series of recent NERC and BBSRC
 Newton Foundation and GCRF awards (totalling >£3M) reflect the extensive collaboration
 of Meharg, Meharg & Williams with scientists at Bangladesh Agricultural University (Sumon) and
 at Chinese Academy of Science (Zhu). Mooney has developed an interdisciplinary collaboration
 with sensor specialists at the Georgia Institute of Technology (Vogel) (US) and the Tyndall
 National Institute (O’Riordan; Ireland) leading to a 4-year US-Ireland R&D Programme research
 programme (£1M, jointly funded by the US Department of Agriculture, SFI, DAERA) to develop
 on-farm animal disease diagnostics. Campbell’s expertise on development of innovative
 diagnostics for a wide range of toxins has led to extensive collaborations both in EU shellfish
 food safety research programmes and in recent UKRI GCRF initiatives focussed on safe
 drinking water provision in developing countries. This includes a recent BBSRC (£1.6M)
 programme in conjunction with University of Sri Jayewardenepura, Sri Lanka (Manage),
 Aberdeen Industrial Biotechnology Institute (Edwards, Lawton) and the UK Biochar Research
 Centre, University of Edinburgh (Masek), to develop solutions to eliminate cyanotoxin exposure
 via water.

 Nutrition & Preventive Medicine: Our expertise in plant-based diets and cardiometabolic
 health is part of a long-term collaboration with Harvard. Cassidy has collaborated with them
 since 2006, with 25 high-impact papers published since 2014, including in the BMJ/AJCN. Over
 the last REF cycle they have been awarded joint research grants >£1.6M to conduct complex
 interventions and population-based research on dietary flavonoids, with two recent awards from
                                                                                               19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 USDA ($0.3M (Cassidy/Rimm PI) and $0.85M (Mukamal PI), 2020-23), consolidating and
 sustaining their collaborations on plant-based diets/flavonoids. Woodside has recently been
 awarded (2019-2024) a prestigious US-Ireland R&D Partnership Programme (£3M multi-agency
 funding including NIH/SFI/MRC) with Harvard to explore novel biomarkers. Green extends the
 US-linked successes, with recent awards with the University of Florida to develop novel
 biomarkers.

 Agriculture and Environmental Resilience: Our expertise in animal science and microbiome
 research, parasite biology and global change biology has led to many global collaborations. For
 example, Huws and Creevey have collaborated with leading institutes, including AgResearch
 New Zealand (Attwood), INRAE France (Morgavi), WUR (Smidt), University of Alberta Canada
 (Guan), and Universidade de Viçosa Brazil (Mantovani), resulting in co-authored publications in
 Nature Microbiology/Comms, ISMEJ and Microbiome and >£3M joint funding to study livestock
 microbiomes in relation to host phenotype and GHG emissions, from UKRI, H2020, EU JPIs and
 DAFM/DAERA. Global collaborations in the field of parasite biology and effects of climate
 change on parasite epidemiology are also noteworthy e.g. PIs Kyriazakis, Maule, Morgan and
 Gobert have collaborations with Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences
 (Rydhmer), University of Calgary, Canada (Gilleard), Norwegian University of Life Sciences
 (Overland), Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, China (Umbrella Organisation for
 several Chinese Universities), Aarhus University, Denmark (Bach-Knudsen), University of
 Copenhagen, Denmark (Thamsborg), University of Ghent, Belgium (Vercruysse), University of
 Pretoria, South Africa (Van Wyk); Lilongwe University, Malawi (Safalaoh) to name a few. These
 collaborations have resulted in publications in PLoS Pathogens, Genome Biology, Science
 Advances and Global Change Biology, underpinned by >5M funding from UKRI, EU H2020, EU
 ERA Net, DAFM/DAERA, Defra, GCRF and Gates Foundation.

 Enabling Technologies, Data and Data Innovation: As noted previously, this is a relatively
 new theme founded on excellence in metaomic technologies, machine learning/artificial
 intelligence and digital sensor technologies with the latter two in collaboration with the GII.
 Theme members collaborate with globally-recognised establishments e.g. Medical University of
 South Carolina USA (MUSA; Hazard, Wrangle), ETH Zurich (Aebersold). These collaborations
 have resulted in co-authored publications in Nature Methods/Biotechnology/Medicine/Comms,
 Cell, and PNAS. Core staff within this theme (Collins, Graham and Hardiman) are new
 appointments (2018-) brought in to enhance the excellence in this area. To date the core staff
 have secured UKRI and H2020 funding >£2M funding, much of which is collaborative with
 MUSA and ETH Zurich.

 c.   Examples of contributions to the discipline and wider academic community

 Fellowships / Awards / Honours: In 2018 and 2020 respectively, Meharg and Elliott became
 Elected Fellows of the Royal Irish Academy (RIA). In 2017 Elliott also obtained an OBE title and
 in the same year an Outstanding Achievement Award The Theophilus Redwood Award, RSC.
 Williams was awarded a Chinese Academy of Sciences President’s International Fellowship
 Award (2016); Fanning elected Fellow of the American Academy of Microbiology (2019);
 Cassidy held a Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Award (2013-18); Su, 2019, and Cassidy,
 2017 were elected Fellows of the American Heart Association (FAHA).

 Our ECRs have demonstrated their future potential and vitality, e.g. McEvoy was awarded
 Senior Atlantic Fellow of The Global Brain Health Institute (GBHI), University of California San
 Francisco (2016), and also held a Paul Beeson-CARDI Fellowship of the American Federation
 for Aging Research (AFAR, 2015-20), working with Woodside. Bondonno was awarded a 4-year
 Australian National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC) Early Career Fellowship to
 work with Cassidy (2018-22). Wu was also awarded Royal Society Newton Fellowship (2020-22)
 to work with Elliott.

 Government Committees: Young (Chief Scientist, NI Government 2019-); Young (Member of
 Scientific Advisory Group on Emergencies, SAGE 2020-); Elliott (Deputy Chair, REF2021 UoA
                                                                                                   20
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     6), Cassidy (member, REF2021 UoA 3); Elliott (Chair, Government review of integrity and
     assurance of UK food supply networks; 2014); Elliott (Independent Science Advisor World Food
     Programme 2019-); Young (Chair Joint Committee for Traceability in Laboratory Medicine 2019-
     21, Chair, International Federation of Clinical Chemistry Scientific Division 2015-18); Connolly
     (Expert member EFSA Scientific panel: Food contact materials, enzymes, processing aids);
     Maule (Wellcome Trust Strategic Awards Committee 2015, Swedish Research Council-
     Infectious Disease Committee 2014-); Mooney (BBSRC Committee A 2018-); Kyriazakis (panel
     member BBSRC/ESCR/MRC tackling antimicrobial action 2016 and Global Challenge Fund,
     2019); Fanning (Foreign Expert for China National Centre for Food Safety & Risk Assessment
     [CFSA], 2015-, and Saudi Food & Drug Authority [SFDA] 2019-22); Fanning (FAO/WHO expert
     on food-borne antimicrobial resistance 2018-23); Fanning (UK Food Standards Agency expert
     working group to evaluate hydrolysed infant formulas 2015). Fanning (WHO/FAO expert panel to
     assess the risk to human health of PlumpyNut® to severe acutely malnourished children, UN-
     FAO, 2014); McGrath (member International Advisory Panel for Enterprise Ireland Dairy
     Processing Centre); McGrath (UK Representative on United States National Science Foundation
     Sustainable Phosphorus Research Coordination Network 2015-19); Roche (UK Nutrition
     Research Partnership Committee (Wellcome Trust/MRC) 2018-20, and Chair, Scientific Advisory
     Board, EU Healthy Diet Healthy Life JPI 2015-18).

     Editorial Boards of National/International Journals: Huws, Cameron, Kumaresan (2015-)
     (Microbiome); Maule Int J Parasitology (2017-19); Geary J Parasitology (1993-) and Int J
     Parasitology-Drug Discovery and Resistance (2011-); Fanning (2013-) (FEMS Microbiol Lett,
     Microbiology). Huws editor-in-chief, Animal Microbiome (a sister journal to Microbiome) (2018-).

     Selected Advisory Boards: Allan (Merial; Devenish Nutrition; FDA, USA); Connolly (Fusion
     Antibodies; XenoSense Ltd.); Elliott (Neogen Corp; Chief Scientific Advisor, IAEA/FAO; Agri-
     Food QUEST); Fanning (Director WHO Cronobacter Centre; MRC; UN, FAO & FSA adviser);
     Geary (Boehringer-Ingelheim 2019-); McGrath (Microbiology Awareness Campaign - NI
     Assembly & Oireachtas, RoI); Meharg (FDA; Fund for Scientific Research, Belgium;); Prodohl
     (ICES Working Group, Genetics in Fisheries & Mariculture; NERC Advisory Scientific
     Committee).

    Selected Learned Society Positions: Maule (RIA Life Sciences Committee and Selection
     Committee 2013-15) and Swedish Research Council Infectious Diseases panel (2013-19);
     Meharg (Fellow, Royal Society of Edinburgh, International and Selection Committee 2012-16);
     Scollan (Chair Management Board Animal 2014-20); Woodside (Trustee and Honorary
     Publications Officer, Nutrition Society 2019-).

    Selected Conferences Hosted / Organised: Scollan (Director of Oxford Farming Conference
     2017-20); Maule (Organising committee Global Health Symposium, Belfast 2017, 2018);
     Woodside (Organising committee Federation of European Nutrition Societies, Dublin 2019).
     Elliott: (ASSET Summit on Global Food Integrity 2018); Kyriazakis (chairman, International
     Advisory Committee for International Symposium on Nutrition of Herbivores, 2014-18).

     d.   Engagement with non-academic communities

     Our engagement with policy makers and industry has intensified since REF2014. With respect to
     seeding innovation and impact development, formal linkages with multiple, global stakeholders
     have been established through, for example, AgriFood Quest and EIT-Food, and our strategic
     alliance with AFBI enhances our industrial and policy impacts. We have further enhanced our
     engagement with government nationally (e.g. FSA, Elliott review, FINN network (food
     authenticity network to support evidence-based policy making) and internationally (e.g. Huws is
     Chair of Rumen Microbial Genomics network which underpins the activities of the GRA in GHG
     mitigation, and Kyriazakis’s work with FAO). A series of knowledge networks have been
     established collaboratively between IGFS and Safefood on the island of Ireland that help
     integrate activity and provide for research synergy; the IGFS footprint in Ireland is further
     enhanced through the Food Fortress© concept.
                                                                                                     21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Industrial research collaborations during the REF cycle involved: Pharmaceutical [Aviagen,
 Bayer, DOW, GlaxoSmithKlein, Merial, Zoetis, Mondelez], Diagnostic [Neogen Corp., R-
 Biopharm AG, Syngenta, Virbac], Biotechnology [Waters, Xenosense, Agilent, Bruker] and Food
 [Avondale, Agrisearch, BioAtlantis, Crossgar Meats, Dromona, Dunbia, Fleming Poultry,
 Moypark, Nestle, Skea Eggs, Thompson’s Feeds] industries. Many of these are ongoing and
 expanding.

 IGFS also hosts a number of keynote lectures to the non-academic community, including an
 annual lecture and the George Scott Robertson Lecture. We run a host of events in partnership,
 such as the Oxford Farming Conference and Coalition of Aid and Development Agencies
 (CADA) One World Festival and actively engage with the public and schools e.g. through the
 Northern Ireland Science Festival and within school bespoke Microbiology Society-sponsored
 events.

 Policy engagement examples:

 Professor Morgan was one of fifteen selected global experts in helminth control appointed to the
 Star-IDAZ International Research Consortium on Animal Health, and led on research roadmaps
 for integrated control of nematode and fluke infections in livestock. He has also supported UN
 and national governments on emergency investigation of wildlife mortality events in saiga
 antelopes (2015) and elephants (2020), leading to improved tools for monitoring and
 investigation of wildlife health.

 Professor Young is the Chief Scientific Advisor to the Department of Health (2015-present) and
 also the Scientific Advisory Committee for Emergencies (SAGE; 2020-present). Professor
 Cassidy has contributed a systematic review on flavan-3-ols and cardiovascular health which is
 being used to develop dietary guidelines for flavonoid intakes data by the American Academy of
 Nutrition & Dietetics (2020-). Professor Woodside has, through the International Life Sciences
 Institute (ILSI), led the development of guidelines on the design, conduct and reporting of food-
 based intervention studies in both adults and children. Professor Elliott acted as Independent
 Science Advisor to the World Food Programme (2019-20) during the Uganda crisis. He also acts
 as an advisor to the National Food Crime Unit and sits on the CODEX Alimentarius working
 group on food fraud Elliott is a partner with a number of multinational food corporations on a food
 safety initiative which is part of the UN Food Systems Summit in September 2021.




                                                                                                  22
