Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Bristol

 Unit of Assessment 17: Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Overview
This submission brings together two newly created schools: the School of Accounting and Finance
(SAF) and the School of Management (SoM). For REF2014 they were separate departments
within the School of Economics, Finance and Management (EFIM). During this REF period both
Schools have grown significantly, benefiting from major academic, administrative and physical-
infrastructural investments by the University (see Institution Environment Statement: REF5a). In
REF2014 we submitted 27.5 FTE staff (76% intensity); in REF2021 we are submitting 76.6 FTE.
Growth has been achieved by appointments of staff at all career stages, balancing research
leadership with our commitment to early career researchers (ECRs). This strategic growth has
enabled the UoA to enhance existing areas of research strength, such as accounting and
organisation studies, whilst developing new ones, including banking, marketing, international
business, sustainability, inclusive economy, work futures and healthcare. It has also enabled us to
greatly strengthen our research infrastructure and environment, creating solid foundations for
future development.

The two Schools sit within the Faculty of Social Sciences and Law (FSSL) and the intellectual
characters of both are informed by this, providing a shared ethos that facilitates continuing
collaboration across the UoA. Both Schools actively embrace diverse social sciences
perspectives, believing this to be conducive to the production of impactful research that address
the global challenges facing the economy and society. In keeping with this approach and with the
University’s strategic priorities (see REF5a), both SAF and SoM have sought to nurture and
promote interdisciplinarity as well as disciplinary excellence, with a supportive, pluralistic and
collegial research culture. Growth has promoted the development of new challenge-led, cross-
cutting research themes, building on disciplinary excellence in new academic groups.

Both Schools will benefit from significant further investments by the University after REF2021. The
UoA is central to the University’s planned £500M new Temple Quarter Enterprise Campus (TQEC;
see REF5a), where the SoM will be co-located, together with the Bristol Digital Futures Institute
(BDFI; Co-Investigator Owen). Launched in 2019, BDFI is a University Research Institute (URI)
which integrates social science and engineering perspectives on the development and use of new
technologies, supported by a £100m award: £29m from the Research Partnership Investment
Fund, supplemented by £71m from 27 business partners, including Aardman, Airbus, BBC, BT and
Dyson (see REF5a). TQEC will also house the Bristol Inclusive Economy Initiative (IEI, led by
Parker), and the Centre for Innovation and Entrepreneurship. The Temple Quarter site already
houses Engine Shed, an award-winning hub where businesses, entrepreneurs, academics, social
innovators, and corporates collaborate. The campus will create new opportunities for commercial
and civic engagement, and will play a key role in driving forward the UoA’s research to address
future societal challenges and to make contributions to the delivery of the University’s global civic
mission (see REF5a).




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
1.1 Structure
During the REF2021 period the Schools have significantly reorganised their academic structures.
There are now six academic groups, which are used to develop research and for the purposes of
staff development and workload allocation:
   •   Accounting
   •   Finance
   •   Marketing & Consumption
   •   Operations and Management Science, Innovation & Healthcare
   •   Strategy, International Management & Business and Entrepreneurship
   •   Work, Employment, Organisation & Public Policy
All staff participate in at least one of the UoA’s eleven research themes, which cut across the two
Schools:
   (1) Accountability, Sustainability and Governance - understanding how accountability and
        governance in the public, civic and private sectors contribute to social progress and
        environmental sustainability;
   (2) Banking - working at the intersection between economics, finance and law, and exploring
        the micro- and macroeconomics of banking;
   (3) Corporate Finance - focusing on corporate governance issues, Initial Public Offerings and
        insider trading;
   (4) Financial Markets - researching asset allocation, applied financial econometrics, asset
        market performance, behavioural explanations of markets, market microstructure, trading
        system design, and volatility forecasting;
   (5) Financial Reporting - interacting with the accounting profession and policy-makers to
        understand the ways in which accounting information can be used to aid decision making;
   (6) Global Political Economy - focusing on historical and contemporary perspectives on the
        organisation of production, labour mobilities and exploitation, financialization and the
        internationalisation of professional services;
   (7) Innovation and Digitalisation – taking a critical, interdisciplinary and reflexive approach
        to innovation and new digital technologies in social and political contexts, to inform both
        theory development and global policy and practice;
   (8) Management Accounting - researching and engaging with practice (including costing,
        management control, performance evaluation) in manufacturing, services and the public
        sector, particularly healthcare;
   (9) Public Services Governance and Management - focusing on governance at systemic
        and organisational levels and their influence on institutions and service outcomes,
        especially in education and healthcare;
   (10) Sustainable Production, Inclusivity, Consumption and Economy - focusing on
        sustainability transitions and forms of organizing that are aimed at producing an inclusive
        and low carbon business ecosystem;
   (11) Work Futures - asking questions about the impact of new technologies and automation on
        existing jobs, on the emergence of new industries, and possible production of new forms of
        social division.
The research themes bring together staff and Post Graduate Research (PGR) students from
across the unit, working within and across School and disciplinary boundaries, to create a high-
quality research environment. The themes play a central role in hosting workshops and
conferences and in inviting external speakers. They also run ‘writing retreats’, internal ‘brown-bag’


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
seminars and informal reading groups, and host lunches to create ideas and knowledge for
research projects and grant applications. They thus play a key role in driving the development of
ideas and production of high-quality outputs, and in shaping our responses to external funding calls
(e.g., UK Research and Innovation (UKRI), Global Challenges Research Fund, EU sources), as
well as facilitating impact and engagement activities.

Overseeing research, both schools have Research Committees chaired by School Research
Directors (SRDs: Schaeck, Veronesi), who sit on both Research Committees to facilitate co-
operation and sharing of ideas across the Schools. The SRDs are supported in their work by a
General Research Fund, open to all staff and PGRs, which is used to supplement individual
research funds on activities that relate, in particular, to doctoral education, research theme
activities and events, and pump-priming for research projects. The research committees act as
focal points for discussion of research strategy, impact, grant capture and PGR development.

1.2 Outcomes of the Research and Impact Strategy from REF2014
In REF2014 we set ourselves a number of key research and impact objectives. We have had
considerable success delivering them, as evidenced below.

1.2.1 Promote Core Disciplines while at the same time nurturing Interdisciplinary Research
The main aim of the UoA’s strategy was to promote high quality disciplinary and interdisciplinary
research, and to foster a social sciences ethos that enables staff to engage fully with the Faculty
and with the University’s strategic priorities. The Schools’ staff recruitment strategies have focused
on building our core disciplinary strengths in the six academic groups, underpinned by a social
sciences-informed critical ethos across the research themes with a view to extending
interdisciplinary potential.

The UoA’s eleven cross-cutting research themes have helped us to promote and facilitate high-
quality interdisciplinary as well as disciplinary research and impact. We invite numerous external
speakers from other disciplines and have supported staff to attend a wide range of conferences
beyond traditional disciplinary boundaries (e.g. Royal Geographical Society; International
Sociological Association). We also support staff working in interdisciplinary research teams and
encourage colleagues to publish in a wide range of journals (including Sociology; Sociology of
Health and Illness; Global Environmental Change; Transactions of the Institute of British
Geographers) and to publish research monographs (e.g. CUP; OUP; Polity; Routledge).

The UoA’s promotion of interdisciplinary as well as disciplinary excellence is exemplified by the
continued investment in the Action Research and Critical Inquiry in Organisations (ARCIO)
Research Centre (led by Gaya, Vachhani). ARCIO brings together a network of scholars across
the University committed to researching in participative and/or capacity-building ways with
organisations and communities.

To further facilitate interdisciplinary research and impact beyond the UoA, staff have been actively
engaged with challenge-led research initiatives through the five University Research Institutes
(URIs: see REF5a): Brigstow Institute (Pitts, Spotswood); BDFI (Beaverstock, Pitts, Owen,
Slade, Williams)); Cabot Institute for the Environment (recently led by Southerton) (Cooper,
Evans, Southerton, Wang); Elizabeth Blackwell Institute for Health Research (Bernardi,
Spotswood, Veronesi); Jean Golding Institute for Data Science (Wang). Staff have also engaged
with the University’s Specialist Research Institutes (SRIs), in particular Migration Mobilities Bristol

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
(Andrijasevic, Beaverstock), and the Faculty Research Groups on: Cultural Work; Perspectives
on Work (led by Pitts); Global Political Economy (led by Thomas); Health, Science and
Technology; Digital Societies (co-led by Owen); Gender, (co-led by Andrijasevic); Smart
Networks (led by Stylos); and the IEI (led by Parker).

Staff have also established links with the Faculties of: Engineering - on smart cities (Burger) and
responsible innovation (Owen); Health Sciences - on digital and healthcare management
(Bernardi, Veronesi); and Science - on financial exclusion, with the Personal Finance Research
Centre based in Geographical Sciences (Tischer).

1.2.2 Recruit and Retain High Quality Researchers
The cornerstone of our growth strategy has been the construction of a supportive, pluralistic and
collegial research culture, supported by a high quality infrastructure (section 3). This has helped
us to recruit and to retain high quality researchers at all career stages. Retention and recruitment
initiatives have been underpinned by competitive salaries; a comprehensive range of professional
development and support activities; careful workload management (including concentration of
teaching in one teaching block); the provision of a high-quality research environment; generous
allowances for PhD supervision; and buy-outs for leadership roles. We also provide generous
funding to encourage and support grant capture.

Staff recruitment has been targeted at strengthening existing areas of excellence and at
strategically building new ones. A key focus of our recruitment drive has been to employ ECRs (18
in total) to ensure the sustainability of the research environment and development of future
leaders. We provide all ECRs with the mentoring and support they need to fully realise their
research potential (section 2).

Recruitment has brought in colleagues from many social science disciplines, for example:
economics (Dieler, Farkas Horvath); human geography (Beaverstock, Evans); social
anthropology (Bryer); and sociology (Southerton). Recruitment from across the social sciences
and outside traditional business and management studies has helped us to not only enhance the
UoA’s interdisciplinary distinctiveness but to participate fully in wider University strategic initiatives.

1.2.3 Embed impact and engagement into research culture
Embedding impact into the research culture of the UoA has been a key priority over the current
cycle, and we have benefitted greatly from the excellent and comprehensive support offered for
impact by the University’s central Research & Enterprise Development (RED) team (see REF5a).
RED has provided guidance and advice on, and support for, our external impact and engagement
activities, while PolicyBristol, the policy engagement team within RED, has offered us invaluable
advice on how to work with policy makers at local, national and international scale. There is
additional support from the Faculty; its Research Committee coordinating funding schemes and
administrative support to nurture pathways to impact with a range of business, government and
not-for-profit organisations.

At School level we have supplemented the support offered for impact and engagement by RED
with dedicated provision. Both Schools have established Impact Director roles (Beck, Stoja) with
budgetary responsibilities to lead, promote and incentivise impact activities, with direct financial
support and selective workload buy-outs. We have actively encouraged and supported co-
produced research, engaging with a range of stakeholders to create impact opportunities, including

                                                                                                    Page 4
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
the H.M. Treasury, Bank of England, NHS and TUC, which has directly contributed to our
REF2021 Impact Case Studies (and future cases). It has also generated meaningful relationships
with the practice and regulatory communities, examples including: Charted Institute of
Management Accountants; Financial Conduct Authority; Foods Standards Agency; and World
Bank. UoA members have been awarded funding for several ESRC IAA projects beyond those
included in our submitted impact case studies.

Our success in embedding impact and engagement in our research culture is reflected in the fact
that staff from the UoA have been appointed consecutive Directors of PolicyBristol (Wilson, Gaya)
and Faculty Business Fellow (Pitts).

1.2.4 Further Strengthen Doctoral and Post-doctoral Recruitment and support
The UoA and its PGR community have benefitted greatly from the institutional support and PhD
training offered by the Bristol Doctoral College (BDC). We have also benefitted from the activities
of the ESRC South West Doctoral Training Centre/Partnership (SWDTC, later SWDTP), which was
awarded the largest number of studentships in the country (see REF5a).

Between 2013/14 and 2019/20 the UoA’s PhD headcount (including those writing-up) gradually
increased from 35 to 50 FTEs, with BAME and female PGRs accounting for more than 50% of the
headcount in most years. The UoA is incorporated into the ESRC SWDTP with a dedicated
disciplinary ‘Management & Business Studies’ Pathway, which secured new ESRC PhD
Studentships, and with the Global Political Economy interdisciplinary Pathway. PhD students have
been recruited through ESRC SWDTP, University, Faculty and School scholarships, BDC and
other sources including the China Scholarship Council.

The UoA has also benefitted from the University’s Vice-Chancellor Fellowships (see REF5a)
(Villella) and from Post-Doctoral researchers recruited through prestigious grants (Beecham –
ESRC Post-Doctoral Fellow; Pansera - EU H2020; Whillans – British Academy Post-doctoral
Fellowship). All Post-Doctoral researchers have access to mentoring and developmental support,
and in 2018 Bristol Clear was launched to offer career guidance (see REF5a).

1.2.5 Enhanced support for Continued Increase in Research Grant Funding
The UoA has benefitted significantly from the support that RED provides for grant capture. We
have worked closely with them to offer support tailored to colleagues at different career stages,
and to different funders and types of grant. The UoA has also benefitted from pump-priming
research funds from both the University and Faculty. Research grant track records have been
important factors in recruitment, and the Schools have supplemented the support offered by RED
by offering dedicated funding to facilitate grant applications and developing new internal demand
management systems for peer review. Both Schools strategically use teaching buy-outs to boost
applications, and both now have dedicated Research Managers to provide intelligence gathering
from funders and grant application administration.

Another important facet of our grant capture strategy has been to encourage staff to apply to a
diverse range of UKRI, charities and EU sources. The strategy has paid dividends. During this
REF period the UoA has been awarded £800,189 in external research income (where staff are PI),
compared to £315,113 for REF2014, with UKRI and EU bodies accounting for a 90% share in
2019/20. The UoA also took a leadership role in the successful externally funded £100M BDFI (Co-



                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Investigator Owen), which will facilitate PGR and Post-doctoral fellow opportunities as part of its
ambitious research programme (see REF5a).

1.2.6 Spatially Re-organise for Co-location
The University has also made substantial investments in our physical infrastructure. SoM is now
located in a single building, Howard House, refurbished at a cost of £3.5m, and SAF has benefitted
from a similar £3.4m refurbishment of one of the (two) buildings it occupies (see REF5a).
Colleagues in both Schools benefit from dedicated individual staff offices, meeting rooms, social
and teaching spaces, which foster a high-quality research environment.

1.2.7 Open Research and Research Ethics
The University and the UoA promote the highest standards on open research and research ethics,
and the UoA fully endorses Open Access and Research Data Management (see REF5a). Staff and
PGRs are mandated to update ResearchFish. We fully endorse the University’s Commitments of
the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and have established two School Research Ethics
Committees to ensure all research activities are subject to the University’s Ethics of Research
Policy and Procedure, and Research Governance and Integrity Policy. The UoA fully endorses the
San Francisco Declaration of Research Assessment.

1.3 Future Research and Impact Strategy
The University is planning significant further investments in the two Schools and the UoA will use
these additional resources to continue to support both high quality disciplinary and interdisciplinary
research, to encourage social sciences-led inquiry, and to inspire and facilitate external, impact-
oriented engagement, the opportunities for which will be enhanced by our future co-location at
TQEC. Building on this University investment, we believe that we will be even better placed to
develop research and impact that addresses the grand global challenges faced by business and
society, not least in relation to sustainability.

Our four key objectives are to:

1.3.1 Continue to build our core disciplinary strengths, while facilitating interdisciplinary
research that addresses the grand global challenges of our time
Building on the foundations established in the current REF period, we will seek to:
   •   Extend our disciplinary excellence to ensure our research themes pursue interdisciplinarity
       to actively engage with key global and societal challenges including sustainability, inclusive
       economy and work futures.
   •   Continue to work with the URIs and SRIs and to establish collaborative relationships with
       colleagues in STEM-based Faculties to nurture interdisciplinary research and impact.
   •   Continue to align some of our future staff recruitment (including via Fellowship schemes)
       with the URIs and other intra- and inter-Faculty Research Centres such as the Perivoli
       Africa Research Centre.

1.3.2 Further enrich our research environment and infrastructure
We will continue to enhance the quality of our research environment for the benefit of all staff and
PGRs, and continue to promote equality, diversity and inclusion. More specifically, we will:
   •   Seek to achieve Athena Swan Silver recognition by the end of the next REF period.



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
   •   Invest in current staff with professional training and development opportunities, health and
       well-being initiatives, workload management and market-based remuneration.
   •   Further enhance our ‘widening participation’ agenda for PhD studentships, targeting in
       particular low-income and BAME students.
   •   Strengthen the UoA’s role in the BDC, ESRC SWDTP and suite of Centres for Doctoral
       Training (e.g. Digital Health and Care).
   •   Recruit more externally funded PhD students.
   •   Seek external funding that delivers post-doctoral and PGR research opportunities.
   •   Continue investment in library, datasets and other digital resources, and in professional
       services that support external partnerships to facilitate Knowledge Transfer Partnerships
       (KTPs), impact and civic engagement with a diverse range of organisations; local, national
       and international.

1.3.3 Increase and diversify grant capture
The growth in staff numbers and our range of expertise, together with the central support offered
by RED and the growing support within both Schools, means that we are in a strong position to
increase and diversify our funding sources. In particular, we will:
   •   Work with RED colleagues to further incentivise and develop high quality bids to UKRI and
       other funders (e.g. Charities, Learned Societies), including high-value interdisciplinary
       applications (e.g. UKRI Grand Challenges Research Funding/Covid-19 calls and EU
       funding schemes).
   •   Continue to incentivise applications for Research Fellowships (e.g. British Academy,
       Leverhulme Trust, AHRC, ESRC), and research networks (ESRC research seminars, for
       example).
   •   Actively seek internal partnership opportunities with STEM Schools and external
       partnerships with international universities to enhance our ability to bid to international
       funding agencies (see section 4).
   •   Work with URIs, SRIs, IEI, Faculty colleagues and the growing range of activity centred on
       TQEC to secure large grants (e.g. ESRC Large Grants/Centres).

1.3.4 Increase school-level support for impact and engagement and further embed them in
our research culture
We intend to further enhance the support we offer for impact and engagement. Our involvement
with the five URIs and future part-location at TQEC will provide significant opportunities for us to
broaden our impact and engagement activities. Our involvement with the £100M BDFI opens up
major opportunities for engagement with its partner organisations, including Airbus, Aardman,
BBC, BT, Dyson, LV=GI, Three, Toshiba. Our leadership of the IEI additionally creates significant
opportunities for us to engage with local small and medium enterprises, social enterprises and civil
society organisations (e.g. Bristol Pound, Babbasa, Bristol Energy Network). In this way, we can
play a significant role in advancing the University’s civic mission (see REF5a).

Building on our achievements to date, we will:
   •   Work closely with RED, the Public Engagement team, and the Faculty’s Professional
       Liaison Network (PLN) to secure KTPs, student internships and other co-funding
       opportunities with external stakeholders.




                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
   •   Engage with non-academic partners at the inception of new research initiatives to facilitate
       pathways to impact, and work closely with PolicyBristol to ensure effective engagement
       with the relevant policy and practitioner audiences.
   •   Continue to provide staff with mentoring, professional training and development to realise
       impact and civic engagement opportunities.
Our strategy builds on our core commitment to pluralistic disciplinary and interdisciplinary research
and impact, and both Schools are working closely together to further develop existing synergies
and exploit the new opportunities that additional University investment will bring. To this end we
are undertaking a review of the organisational arrangements between the two Schools to assess
the feasibility of generating even greater research synergies in the future.



 2. People

Overview
People have been at the heart of our strategy to enhance the UoA’s research environment. We set
ourselves several ‘People’ objectives from REF2014. Central among them:
   •   Recruiting high-quality researchers to permanent contracts targeted at developing specific
       disciplinary and interdisciplinary areas of expertise across all career stages.
   •   Maintaining staff-student ratios at levels which facilitate world-class research, impact and
       engagement, in accordance with University policy (REF5a).
   •   Providing excellent support and mentoring to develop and retain high quality researchers
       and PGRs.
   •   Embedding equality, diversity and inclusivity (EDI) into our working and research practices
       and ethos.
   •   Maintaining a supportive, pluralistic and collegial research culture and providing a working
       environment that is grounded in principles of inclusivity, equality and workload fairness.
Delivering and sustaining growth has required investment in the processes that support the
recruitment, development, and retention of high quality researchers. Recruitment has emphasised
both the appointment of high-profile scholars with established reputations and concerted
investment in ECRs via participation in international job markets. The goal has been to consolidate
disciplinary strengths, while at same time investing in and developing new areas of research
expertise, for example banking, international business management, marketing, international
business, sustainability and healthcare, with an eye on interdisciplinarity potential.

Mentoring schemes and (accelerated) career progression processes have been aimed at helping
staff to continuously develop their research agendas and portfolios. We have been fully supportive
of the University’s new promotion criteria that embrace and value all kinds of research and
research-related activity and contextualise research performance alongside commitments to
teaching, leadership and citizenship (see REF5a).

Staff who retired during the REF2021 period were invited to remain connected with the UoA’s
community through Emeritus (Ashton, Bulkley, Dugdale, Jones) or Visiting (Rippin) status, and
continue to play an active part in enriching the research environment.




                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
EDI is fully embedded in the University Strategy (see REF5a) and we have made strenuous efforts
to embed EDI into our research culture. Of the UoA’s 76.55 FTE REF-eligible staff, 44% are
female and 18% BAME.

Table 1: Staff profile 31st July 2020
                                                  %        Total %
 Grade                           Number
                                              Female        share
 Lecturer                               32      37.5          41.8
 Research Fellow                         2        100           2.3
 Senior Lecturer                        12       57.6          15.4
 Reader/Associate Prof                   5         80           6.5
 Professor                              27       33.1            34

2.1 Recruiting High-Quality Researchers
Our recruitment has focused on investing in areas of existing research strength while strategically
developing new research areas, both disciplinary and interdisciplinary, in a highly competitive
international labour market.

Core to the strategy of delivering significant staff growth in the UoA, we have made a significant
number of external appointments at Chair (fifteen), Reader (three) and Senior Lecturer (six) levels.
We have also recruited eighteen ECRs with colleagues joining from PhD programmes or post-
doctoral positions at leading UK and European universities, including Bocconi, Carlos III de Madrid,
HEC Paris, KU Leuven, Oxford and Tilburg.

To recruit ECRs, SAF has participated in international research recruitment events organised by
various academic associations, including the European Accounting Association, the American
Finance Association, the American Accounting Association and the European Economic
Association. SoM has used the open job market.

When composing recruitment panels we ensure both gender diversity and seniority balance. This
approach has improved recruitment processes by, for example, incorporating feedback from
colleagues who, in recent years, were candidates themselves, and by enabling ECRs to acquire
experience in these processes. We are also active in recruiting ECRs from University sources
such as the Vice Chancellor’s Fellowship scheme (Villela), funded by a package of support from
the university for a three-year postdoctoral position and appointed in a highly competitive process
(see REF5a).

The recruitment processes are transparent and are structured to get input from all colleagues in
the UoA. In addition to interviews, all candidates (regardless of level of seniority) are required to
present their research to UoA staff. Following these presentations, members of the audience fill out
evaluation forms and a summary of this feedback is fed back to the interview panel to inform the
recruitment decision.

2.2 Developing and Retaining High Quality Researchers
Supporting both the development and retention of colleagues is core to the UoA’s research
strategy. During the REF2021 period there were four internal promotions to Chair (Hill, Stoja,
Wang, Wilson) (50% female); four to Associate Professor (Beck, A. Korczak, P. Korczak,

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Vachhani) (75% female); eight to Senior Lecturer (Bernardi, Biswas, Danisewicz, Gomez, Ho,
Horvath, Schwartz, Uche, Vachhani, Xu) (40% female). The promotion of two colleagues (to
Chair and Reader) followed periods of leave and flexible working to accommodate caring
responsibilities, supported both by the UoA and the University’s Returning Carer’s scheme (see
REF5a).

The UoA’s support for the career development of researchers is crucial to these successes. We
ensure ECRs engage with the relevant development opportunities and networks at University and
Faculty level (see REF5a). Each ECR has a mentor who provides informal support and advice
about workload and career. Research is allocated as 40% of workload for all Research and
Teaching contracted staff, and ECRs are also given additional time to develop their research
portfolios with a reduced teaching load in (at least) the first year of appointment.

Staff to student ratios of around 1:18 have been maintained throughout the REF period. A formal
objective in teaching planning is to enable staff, where possible, to concentrate their teaching
commitments in one teaching block to provide longer periods of time to focus on research. Staff
are also supported to bid for University Research Fellowships, providing teaching buy-out for
twelve months, with a recent successful bid made by Andrijasevic.

Mentoring is in addition to our formal annual Staff Review and Development processes, which
involve a conversation with a senior colleague about research progress, plans and needs. ECRs
are also encouraged to develop teaching and PGR supervision based around their research
interests. Bernardi co-chairs the Faculty ECR network. All ECRs complete a University
Postgraduate qualification, Cultivating Research and Teaching Excellence (CREATE), which
develops a broad range of skills. On successful completion, staff become a Fellow of Advance HE
(see REF5a).

The research development of staff is further supported by generous individual research budgets,
which allow for regular conference and workshop attendance (budgets average around £4k per
colleague per year). School funds may also be used to obtain custom databases for specific
research projects, and to support attendance at, and organisation of, workshops involving world-
leading academics. Examples of the latter include workshops in Bristol for ECRs and PGRs
involving Cathy Shakespeare (Michigan) and Beatriz Garcia Osma (Carlos III de Madrid). Such
visits complement three regular seminar series (Accounting, Finance and Management) within the
UoA; each usually has at least one external speaker during each teaching block week. To
accommodate flexible working and caring responsibilities, these are timetabled for lunchtimes.

Staff also benefit from significant support for research and impact from RED, the Faculty and the
UoA’s two Research Managers who, amongst other things, offer comprehensive administrative
support for research activities and manage the pump-priming internal grant competitions and
opportunities made available by the ESRC IAA administered by RED (see section 3).

Deliberate efforts are made to plan for succession in important research-related leadership roles
across the UoA. For example, the Directors of Postgraduate Research Studies in both SAF
(Clatworthy) and SoM (Stylos) work with lecturers (Kim and Burger, respectively) on PhD
admissions and related issues. Senior colleagues and ECRs work together in the organisation of
research workshops. For example, Financial Accounting Workshops and Benjamin Meaker visits
(Clatworthy, A. Korczak, Ho, Scapin, Tsileponis); Bristol Centre for Management Accounting

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Research events and the Management Accounting as Social and Organisational Research
workshop (Chapman, Pugh, Suzuki, Tawfik); Banking Workshop (Schaeck, Dieler, Horvath,
Danisewicz); and Healthcare and Operations workshop (Wang, Sheng).

2.3 Training and Supervision of PGR students
Our PGR community is integral to our research environment and ethos and this is reflected in the
excellent support provided to PGRs at all levels: School; Faculty and University (via the SWDTP
and BDC: see REF5a). Prospective supervisors interview all students before an offer is made, the
criteria being academic credentials, originality of ideas and familiarity with the literature in the
proposal, and supervisory capacity. Our recent growth has led to a significant increase in our PhD
supervisory capacity, with 42 PhDs awarded during the REF2021 period compared to 14 in
REF2014. Our PhD community (including students writing up) has increased from 35 FTEs to 50
FTEs between 2013/14 and 2019/20. BAME and female students have been consistently strongly
represented in our PGR community (Table 2).

Table 2: PGR annual headcount (rounded to the nearest five in line with HESA) and PhDs
awarded by proportion of UoA supervision (no professional doctorates were awarded)
 PGR               2013/14    2014/15     2015/16     2016/17     2017/18     2018/19     2019/20
 Annual
                      35         40          45          45          40          45          50
 headcount
 % Female            43%        50%         44%         56%         63%         56%         50%
 % BAME              43%        63%         56%         56%         63%         67%         60%
 % with
                     14%        13%         11%         11%         13%          0%          0%
 Disability
 PhDs
                      0.0        5.5         7.0         8.0         9.5         7.5         4.5
 Awarded

All PhD students have two co-supervisors. The second supervisor is often less experienced to
help career development and build capacity, but also to bring in recent experience of PhD
programmes in other institutions. The supervisory team must contain at least one individual who
has previously supervised to successful completion. Supervision meetings are held at least once a
month. PGRs are required to undertake (and to be formally assessed in) at least 60 credits-worth
of courses in their first year. Students are expected to progress after 12-18 months, requiring the
production of a 15,000-word report, which is defended in an oral examination with two panellists
from Schools across the Faculty, depending on the topic. Successful progression and ethics
reviews are required before the student can begin their data collection.

The SWDTP, led by the University of Bristol in collaboration with the Universities of Exeter, Bath,
Plymouth and UWE, has a pathway for Management PhD scholars, and interdisciplinary pathways
(including Global Political Economy). PhD students and UoA staff are also encouraged to
participate in BDC, ESRC SWTDP and GW4 activities (e.g. the Advanced Asset Pricing workshop
delivered by Taylor).

During the REF2021 period there has been a considerable expansion of the provision of research-
focused MSc programmes within the UoA. The MSc Social Science Research Methods developed
by the Faculty and SoM provides comprehensive training in the process of research
conceptualisation, design and operationalization to reflect the training recommended by the ESRC.
In SAF, the MSc Accounting and Finance and the MSc Banking, Regulation and Financial Stability


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
offer a wide range of units similarly suitable for preparatory training for PhD. PGRs may also take
courses in other Schools in the Faculty, the BDC and elsewhere in the University.

The UoA organises ad hoc workshops and courses, on such things as dealing with endogeneity
using Stata (Danisewicz), and computer-based text retrieval and analysis using Perl and Python,
delivered by Andrew Leone (Northwestern University) and Ties de Kok (Washington University),
and PhD students from other UK universities and from other countries participate in these
workshops. Specialist PhD training is also offered by the University of Bristol Advanced
Computing Research Centre (ACRC), SWTDP and GW4 (see REF5a). PGRs are encouraged to
apply for dedicated School funding to support their participation in national and international PhD
training workshops, courses and conferences. SAF is a member of the EAA PhD Exchange
Programme.

PhD students have dedicated desks in shared offices and dedicated social space, communal
facilities (e.g. kitchens) and storage. They are co-located with staff in each School and actively
encouraged to participate in research theme activities. They are also encouraged to present their
work at an early stage to UoA staff and PGRs. Reading groups for PhD students take place in SAF
and they engage in critical discussion to develop their evaluative skills and to raise awareness of
developments in the literature. SoM offers a regular student-led Doctoral Colloquium that provides
students with an opportunity to present their work to other students and staff. To further enhance
their transferable skills, PGRs are offered teaching training and experience. They are also invited
to assist with organising and running conferences and workshops, providing them with valuable
event experience, engaging in networking, and contributing through both formal and informal
discussions with participating researchers.

To further develop employability, PhD students in Banking are also encouraged to pursue
internships, with recent successes at the Bank of England, European Central Bank and the
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. PGRs in SoM have secured university
engagement funding for work with local organisations (VOSCUR - the local third sector agency),
Caring Bristol (a homeless charity) and FoodCycle (a waste food charity).

The current REF period has also seen growth in financial support for PhD students. UoA PhD
students are supported through the ESRC SWDTP, EPSRC, and international research funding
councils (e.g. China Scholarship Council; CONICYT (Chile). There has also been a significant
increase in internal funding. For example, the UoA’s 2019/20 cohort included eight School-funded
PhD students, as well as one PGR funded by a University Scholarship.

2.4 Equality and diversity
The two Schools are fully committed to EDI (in line with the University’s EDI strategy and Delivery
Plan: see REF5a) and to building a more diverse and inclusive community of high quality
researchers. The UoA has a diverse staff composition, with one male and one female Head of
School. BAME staff account for 18% of the REF2021 submission and SoM’s Head of School
(Smart) is one of the few BAME Heads/Deans across all business/management schools in the UK.
Growth during the REF2021 period has seen the number of REF-eligible female staff significantly
increase from the 36% submitted in REF2014 to 44% in REF2021. Female colleagues have been
recruited at all levels: Chair (Decker, Michelon, Nairn, Smart); Reader (Bryer, Johns) Senior
Lecturer (Andrijasevic, Beck, Pantano, Mangan, Spotswood); Lecturer (Bernardi, Burger,
Sheng, Slade, Williams); Research Fellow (Villela; Whillans). With respect to internal


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
promotions during the REF period, females have accounted for: 50% to chair; 75% to reader; and
40% to senior lecturer.

An Equality Group was formed in 2018 to operate across the three departments of the old School
of EFIM. This group continues to operate across the three new Schools, incorporating all initiatives
related to EDI, including widening participation and gender equality. In 2019 SAF and SoM formed
independent but collaborative EDI teams (led by Pantano, Johns, Hill). These teams lead on our
Athena Swan Bronze submissions, and have appointed “Champions” to act as central points of
communication and coordination of a range of activities and consultation exercises, designed to
nurture an inclusive environment. EDI team leaders are members of Schools’ Senior Management
Teams and receive recognition in workload allocation.

Staff at both senior and ECR level have benefited from University policies designed to assist the
career development of colleagues with caring responsibilities, including five female colleagues who
have taken adoption or maternity leave and whose teaching load has been reduced for the first
year on return to work via the University’s Returning Carer’s scheme (see REF5a). Colleagues
have also been permitted to carry forward unused research funds where they have been unable to
usefully spend these within the financial year due to caring responsibilities.

The UoA’s procedures for the selection of submitted outputs followed the University’s REF code of
practice. All staff potentially eligible for submission were invited to voluntarily and confidentially put
forward any special circumstances. A panel whose members have no role in other REF-related
decisions evaluated such information anonymously. Individuals were also asked to nominate and
update outputs they felt to be of suitable quality that were then evaluated for REF purposes by at
least two members of staff, with the REF committee providing final oversight. Two UoA
coordinators (Chapman, Smart) undertook university training to raise awareness of potential for
conscious and unconscious bias in the REF process, and as a result of this the REF committee
gave detailed attention and follow up analysis to the attribution of grades to outputs broken down
by gender. Final output selection decisions followed university policy to ensure that, when
selecting between outputs of the same-awarded grade, particular attention was given to ensuring
an output profile that represents staff and their protected characteristics.

The final output submission profile contained 44% outputs from female staff, which matches our
staffing profile.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Overview
The UoA’s research environment has benefitted from significant University investment in academic
staff, physical infrastructure, and administrative and professional support for all aspects of
research, impact, knowledge exchange and engagement. The investments in academic staff have
broadened the research base of the unit and greatly strengthened our intellectual infrastructure.
This combined with School-level investment in research support, including the appointment of two
Research Managers, has enabled us to achieve a steady improvement in external research
funding from an increasingly diverse mix of core disciplinary and, equally importantly,
interdisciplinary funding sources ranging across UKRI, charities and other sources such as the EU
(see Table 3 below). We are confident of continuing this upward trajectory in the next REF cycle.

                                                                                                 Page 13
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
The creation of BDFI and the IEI has significantly increased the opportunities for colleagues to
work with businesses of all sorts and sizes.

Our research environment has also benefitted from significant investments in our physical
infrastructure, with £3.5m being spent on the refurbishment of the building which now houses all of
SoM, and £3.4m on SAF accommodation. The combination of access to specialist computing
facilities, databases and software, and individual office provision enables the UoA to provide a
high-quality research environment for all research staff. This has in turn enriched the research
culture and ethos of the UoA.

3.1 Research Income
Researchers in the UoA have both led and been co-investigators on a wide range of externally
funded research projects. During the REF period, the UoA was awarded £800,189 in external
research income where staff are PI. Table 3 contains a detailed breakdown, but two significant
aspects of our research income profile are the step-change in trajectory for grant income from
2018 onwards, and the significant share of this accounted for by UKRI and EU bodies. These
changes reflect the excellence of the institutional support provided by RED and the Faculty for
grant capture and the recruitment of new academic staff, coupled with our strategy to embed
awareness of the potential for research income to drive both research and impact activity.

Table 3: Research grant income (HESA) during the REF period (for PIs) (totals includes roundings)
 Source       2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20
 UKRI, EU               7,427   3,671   2,685  24,363 274,544 265,501
 Charities      3,851   3,917   7,275  40,392   5,113           1,806
 Other         25,087  44,813                   6,256  56,944  26,539
 Total         28,938  56,157  10,947  43,078  35,732 331,490 293,847

We actively support engagement with a full range of possible funders. Targeted guidance is given
at different career stages on funding sources to offer a full range of opportunities, by size and
value, including: The British Academy, The Royal Society, The Leverhulme Trust, UKRI (ESRC,
EPSRC) and international funders (e.g. EU). Two examples of large inter-disciplinary awards
include: Evans’ EPSRC project on ‘Single-use plastic’ (£1M), and Owen’s EPSRC ‘TIPS-At-Scale
Cybersecurity Centre for Doctoral Training Centre’ (£6M). Other examples of externally awarded
research projects listed by funder include:

3.1.1 Research Councils

AHRC
US-UK Partnership Development grant (Decker); ‘Transitional justice as education’ (Gaya);
‘Alternative Business Models and the Creative Economy’ (through Bristol + Bath Creative R&D)
(Parker).

EPSRC
Balance Network, ‘Mobility and work life balance in the digital age’ (Beaverstock); and ‘Cherish-
DE Digital Economy Crucible 2019, exploring ethical design for emerging technologies (Williams).




                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
ESRC
Standard Grants - ‘Empowering Citizen – Oriented Smart-City Innovation in Mexico’ (Owen);
‘Individual differences in the adoption, use and exploitation of smart home devices’ (ESRC Centre
for Research and Evidence in Security Threats) (Slade and Williams); ‘Tackling disabling
practices’ (Sturdy).
Post-Doctoral Fellowship - ‘Alternative food networks’; ‘Enacting freshness in the UK and
Portuguese agro-food sectors’ (Beecham; sponsor Evans).
Seminar Series - ‘Historicising the theory and practice or organization analysis (Decker); ‘Beyond
Behaviour Change’ (Spotswood); ‘Democratic renewal in Civil Society Organisations’ (Parker).
Productivity Network - ‘Shared curation of data and collective bargaining’ (Pitts); ‘Exploring
Productivity Narratives in UK Manufacturing’ (Smart); ‘Assessing potential social, societal and
environmental impacts’, Innovation Caucus (Smart)

NERC
‘Resilient Economy and Society by Integrated SysTems modelling’ (Wang).

3.1.2 Charities
   •   British Academy ‘Organisational remembering of corporate (ir-)responsibility’ (Decker);
       ‘Additive manufacturing (3D printing) and global supply chains’; ’Chocolate, children and
       clothes’ (Johns); ‘Co-producing Knowledge across disciplines and borders: gene drive
       mosquitoes in the UK and Mali’ (Owen); Post-Doctoral Fellowship ‘The relationship
       between the temporal organisation of employment and eating in the UK’ (Southerton,
       Whillans); Leverhulme Trust Research Fellowship, ‘New approaches to understand
       organizational change’ (Decker); Nuffield Foundation ‘School choice and equality of
       opportunity’ (Wilson).

3.1.3 Other (UK Government; EU; Learned Societies)
   •   British Academy of Management ‘3D Printing and marketing’ (Stylos); Economist
       Intelligence Unit/Alana ‘Cost Benefit Analysis of the impact of banning advertising to
       children in Brazil’ (Nairn); European Commission Science with and for Society H2020,
       ‘Responsible Research and Innovation Practice’ (Owen); Gamble Aware ‘The effect of
       gambling marketing and advertising on children, young people and the vulnerable (Nairn);
       Royal Society ‘Optimize perishable supply chains by option contracts (Wang)’; Newton
       Fund/British Council International Mobility Grant 2014 (Universidade Positivo, Curitiba,
       Brazil) (Decker) and ’Innovation and sustainable development in healthcare supply chain
       management’ (Wang); Thyssen Foundation ‘Innovations in interest rate risk management’
       (with Deutsche Bundesbank) (Schaeck); LINK ‘Cash machine exclusion (Tischer)’; UK
       Home Office ‘Investigating and Navigating Fraudulent Offender Retail and Marketing’;
       ‘Investigating how we can best inform users about online security risks in their digital lives
       (2018/19)’; ‘Developing a modifiable, open-source email-sorting task for research and
       training applications related to phishing’ (Williams).

3.1.4 Benefit-in-kind relationships
Growth has increased benefit-in-kind relationships with: new staff members’ previous institutions
(Southerton, University of Manchester’s Consumption Institute); ESRC IAA activities (Beck with
the TUC and ACAS); Korczak with Smart Inside (c£60K); and international partners (e.g. Wang’s
Royal Society and Newton Awards benefitted from 100K RBM and 160K RBM from Chinese

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
partners). Benefit-in-kind has also been received through participation in international networks (to
support travel, database access): for example, Evans’ with the European Sociological
Association’s Sociology of Consumption Network; and Morgan, Thomas and Turnbull in the
Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada project: The CRIMT Institutional
Experimentation for Better Work Partnership.

3.2 Support for Research Grant Capture
RED provides excellent and comprehensive support for all aspects of research and grant capture,
tailored to colleagues’ different career stages and research interests. They provide guidance and
advice on funding opportunities and horizon planning, and on application preparation and peer
review (see REF5a). RED’s support is supplemented at Faculty and School levels, including via
the UoA’s eleven research themes, that provide a vital mechanism to produce new ideas for
research grant applications (both responsive mode and specific calls).

Our strategy for grant capture is underpinned and supported by University and Faculty initiatives,
including:
   •   The URIs (Brigstow Institute; Cabot Institute for the Environment; BDFI; Elizabeth Blackwell
       Institute for Health; Jean Golding Institute for Data Science) and the SRIs (e.g. Migration
       Mobilities Bristol), which provide funding and in-kind opportunities to enhance research
       capacity in interdisciplinary initiatives.
   •   A discipline-specific mentoring scheme and one-to-one internal peer review to comment on
       ideas, theory and research design, and the quality of financial costings in applications.
   •   University and Faculty provision of seedcorn funding for interdisciplinary opportunities to:
       prepare bids for the Global Challenges Research Fund; support visiting fellows from the
       ‘Global South’ and elsewhere (e.g. Benjamin Meaker Fellowship scheme); and facilitate
       cross-institutional projects with members of the World Universities Network (see REF5a;
       also section 3.4).
   •   The Faculty’s Research Groups (particularly those on Cultural Work, Digital Societies,
       Global Political Economy; Perspectives on Work), which also support interdisciplinary
       projects.
Our grant capture strategy is implemented under the leadership of the two SRDs (Schaeck,
Veronesi) and is underpinned and supported at School level by:
   •   A staff recruitment strategy that has taken account of funding experience and leadership
       (Decker, Evans, Owen, Southerton, Tonks, Schaeck) and, in the case of ECRs and mid
       career staff, of ambition and a growing funding track-record (Bernardi, Pitts, Rubio, Slade,
       Williams).
   •   The two School Research Committees’ organisation of grant capture focused away-days,
       aligned to challenge-led research initiatives and the ambition to seek large interdisciplinary
       awards.
   •   The two Schools’ open bi-annual internal pump-priming grant competitions, incentivizing
       staff to team up for larger grant applications funnelled through the research themes.
   •   A UoA formal review and feedback system for all external grant applications prior to
       involvement and review from the Faculty and RED.




                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
3.2.1 Support for impact and engagement
Both Schools have School Impact Directors (Beck, Stoja) who oversee strategic and operational
activity. The UoA has benefitted from the work of RED’s Impact Development, Knowledge
Exchange and PolicyBristol teams, which provide guidance and advice on, and best practice
support for, co-produced research, impact and engagement (see REF5a). This work is supported
by that of the Faculty Business Fellow (Pitts) and the Faculty Professional Liaison Network, which
connects us to the city-region’s business, government and not-for-profit sectors.

The University holds an ESRC IAA and this has been used extensively by staff within the UoA (see
below and section 4). The IEI, for example, led by Parker, currently holds £80k of ESRC IAA
funding for impact projects in the Bristol City-region. In addition, staff can bid for UoA and Faculty
impact development funds.

Examples of externally funded impact projects include:
3.2.2 ESRC Impact Accelerator Awards
   •   Factor-trading research and the “real world” (Andronoudis); ‘Learning about Menopause
       Transitions’ (with the TUC), leading to 11 workshops with union reps and appointment as a
       Research expert for Henpicked (Beck); ‘The ORBIT Operational Research Behavioural
       Interventions Toolkit’ (Burger); ‘Insider trading, with partner company, Smart Inside’
       (Korczak, A., Korczak, P.); ‘Bristol Pound and Business Users’, and ‘Inclusive Economy
       Initiative’ (Parker); ’Communication of climate change’ (Philips); ESRC Industrial Strategy
       Challenge Fund ‘Developing New Ways of Doing and Valuing Professional Work in an Age
       of Digital Transformation’ (Pitts); ECR Industry Secondments, ‘Cybersecurity’ (Slade);
       ‘Financial Market Volatility, Macroeconomic Fundamentals and Investor Sentiment’ with
       Bank of England (Stoja); ‘An evaluation of environmental sustainability: a comparative
       analysis of recipe boxes and supermarket equivalents from a life cycle perspective’, with
       Gousto (Wang); and ‘Sawdays and Employer Ownership’ (Villela).

3.2.3 Other sources
   •   ACAS (Beck), ‘Critical Evidence Review on ‘Managing Older Workers’, leading to a
       Keynote, ACAS 2019 Annual Conference; CIMA (Cooper) ‘Discharging democratic
       accountability: the role of strategy and performance information in Health and Wellbeing
       Boards’; Financial Reporting Council (Michelon) ‘Understanding research findings and
       evidence on corporate reporting’; and ICAS and EFRAG (Clatworthy) ‘Financial reporting
       to conduct international survey of investment professionals’.

3.2.4 Current and future impact and engagement
Our rapid growth has facilitated a step-change in our external engagements and impact. We have
many emerging potential impact case studies which are being supported by targeted funding
including the ESRC IAA and our internal research support funds. They include:
   •   Sharing knowledge on London’s financial services clustering with the Bristol-Bath fintech
       ecosystem (Beaverstock).
   •   Raising awareness of the menopause in the workplace (Beck).
   •   Unlocking the value of digital health platforms through business analytics (Bernardi).
   •   Workshops to establish a role for accounting knowledge and tools as a progressive resource
       for community-based organisations in Bristol and California (Bryer).


                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
   •   A guide to FabLabs, https://issuu.com/j_johns/docs/bu_fablabs_document_ final, (Johns).
   •   Inclusive economy policy work with Bristol City Council, Co-ops UK and Social Enterprise UK
       (Mangan, Parker, Villela).
   •   IposMORI/Demos report on children’s exposure to gambling advertising (Nairn).
   •   Working with Bristol City Council to formulate the region’s Climate Strategy (Southerton)
   •   Enabling the work of the BEIS Made Smarter Commission and Royal Academy of
       Engineering on industrial digitalisation (Smart).
   •   Policy Connect report, ‘Levelling up’ regional industries (Smart).
   •   Exploring how internal and external (consultancy) sources of knowledge are generated and
       used to enhance innovation and performance within the NHS (Sturdy, Veronesi).
   •   Mapping of financial exclusion through cashpoint data that has gained interest from the
       Financial Services Authority, LINK, the Post Office and cash machine providers (Tischer).
   •   Exploring approaches to tackle undeclared work in aviation between EU countries (Research
       Platform, DG Employment in the European Commission) (Turnbull).

3.3 Infrastructure and Facilities at UoA level
The University has invested £6.9M in the physical infrastructure of the UoA during this REF period
(see above). This investment in the physical estate of SAF and SoM has provided state-of-the-art
(individual) offices, computing and IT facilities, a specialist Bloomberg Room and collaborative
space (Board and meeting rooms), alongside social space to foster a supportive, pluralistic and
collegial research culture for staff and PGRs. These improvements to our physical environment
have provided a strong foundation for developing and delivering high quality research and
meaningful impact and engagement activities in the future. Our physical infrastructure will be
further enhanced by the new TQEC.

UoA staff have access to state-of-the-art data and intelligence sources including, for example,
Bloomberg, FAME, ONS, Refinitiv TRTH, Wharton Research Data Services (Compustat, CRSP,
Dealscan, I/B/E/S etc.), S&P Global, SNL Financial, BankScope, and Eikon. Staff who have
specific external research projects also benefit from access to organisations’ archives and
databases (e.g. Decker’s project with the British Archives Council to save the Thomas Cook
Archive).

The growth in new staff and expansion into new areas of expertise, such as marketing, has been
accompanied by commensurate growth of investment in new data source subscriptions (e.g.
Mintel).

3.4 Infrastructure and Facilities Beyond UoA Level
Beyond the UoA, staff have access to University central physical (and digital) resources and
specialist infrastructure and facilities. The University library invests in a comprehensive stock of
research-focused books and journal subscriptions in economics, business and management
(including the financial press e.g. The Financial Times and Financial News) (see REF5a). The
UoA has a specialist librarian who advises, trains and supports staff and PGRs.

The University of Bristol Advanced Computing Research Centre (ACRC) provides world-class
support for research, including individual and group-based training and research software
development. Members of the UoA (staff and PGRs) engage with ACRC researchers in other
Schools and Faculties via participation in workshops, research projects and links to the Jean
Golding Institute for Data Science (see REF5a).

                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
The University’s Benjamin Meaker Travel Scholarship fund offers funding and accommodation to
attract leading international researchers for short visits to strengthen research links. Examples of
visitors hosted by the UoA during this REF period include: Dr Bair, University of Virginia, (host:
Andrijasevic); Prof. Shakespeare, Michigan State (Scapin), Prof. Newberry, University of Sydney
(Ellwood), Prof. Brydon-Millar, University of Louisville (supporter Gaya); Prof. Szorenyi, University
of Adelaide (Andrijasevic); Prof. Kalb, University of Bergen (Schwartz); Prof. Scalp, University of
Northern Iowa (Rippin); Prof. Hay, Flinders University (Beaverstock); Prof. Denis, University of
Montreal (Veronesi). The UoA has also hosted many short-term overseas visitors to support
incumbent staffs’ research endeavours, providing office space and University facilities (Prof.
Salterio, Queens University, Canada (Chapman); Prof. McDermott, University of South Carolina
(Morgan); Dr Keele, Monash University (Sturdy); Prof. Singhal, Georgia Institute of Technology
(Wang); and Prof. Schatzki, University of Kentucky (Southerton).

The Faculty also provides financial support for research activities. This funding has been used to
support specialist PGR training workshops (grant writing retreats; externally delivered leading
research methods in computer-assisted data collection and analysis (Perl and Python)); research
workshops that attract world-leading researchers, in Banking, Financial Reporting and
Management Accounting, and the Future of Work; two events on the future of the business school;
and a variety of research travel, transcription and event costs.

Staff can also draw on specialist research opportunities and infrastructure across the University,
from the URIs (Pitts, Spotswood with Brigstow; Southerton with Cabot; Owen with the Bristol
Digital Futures Institute) and SRIs (Andrijasevic, Beaverstock, Schwartz with Migration
Mobilities Bristol), and Schools in the Faculties of Engineering (Burger, Owen, Wang), Life
Sciences (Slade, Williams) and Science (Beaverstock, Tischer). The appointment of staff in
Healthcare Management (Bernardi, Veronesi) has developed our links with the Faculty of Health
Sciences, Digital Health in Engineering, and the Elizabeth Blackwell URI.

The UoA has also benefitted from collaboration with the GW4 regional consortium of universities
(Bristol, Bath, Exeter and Cardiff), formed to coordinate shared research interests and initiatives
(see REF5a), including: research grant capture ‘seedcorn’ activities (Turnbull’s GW4 award,
‘Understanding occupational stress’; Schwartz’s GW4 Consortium Accelerator Fund, ‘Pay Equality
Research Consortium’); workshops/conferences (Hill’s GW4 Initiator Fund workshop, ‘Corporate
governance’); and jointly run PhD events organized by Bristol and Exeter (as part of the ESRC
SWDTP), involving staff and PGRs from across GW4.

The UoA’s leadership of BDFI and the IEI offer significant opportunities for UoA colleagues to
attract funding and to generate impact with a diverse range of local, national and international
partners. The development of the TQEC, focused on digital innovation and the coproduction of
research with business and civil society organisations, will strengthen our connections with the
award-winning business incubator, Engine Shed, and (through the IEI) a range of social
enterprises, which is already stimulating new opportunities for colleagues both with external
partners and with the STEM Faculties at Bristol. A number of colleagues are already, for example,
involved in projects involving Digital Innovation (Burger, Owen, Parker, Slade, Smart, Stylos,
Williams).




                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Overview
The diversity of our collaborations reflects both our and the broader University commitment to
cultivating sustained, impactful relationships with business, government and civic society
organisations at the local, regional, national and international levels. The UoA’s collaboration and
engagement with a growing range of non-academic and academic stakeholders is testament to the
success of our efforts to reach out and make tangible and meaningful contributions to meeting the
challenges we face, locally, nationally and internationally. Our strategy is fully aligned with the
University’s global-civic mission (see REF5a).

Our success in this regard is evidenced by the research and impact partnerships we have
developed, and by advisory roles to international and national government, non-government
organisations (NGOs), professional bodies and regulators, and private and social enterprise (as
highlighted in section 3 and below). For example, to facilitate the UoA’s Impact Case Studies, staff
worked closely with Government (HM Treasury), the Bank of England (including the Prudential
Regulation Authority), regulators and standards boards (Financial Conduct Authority; International
Accounting Standards Board), private enterprise (Ernst & Young) and an international labour rights
NGO (Stichting Electronics Watch Foundation).

In the academy, our staff make significant contributions to the disciplinary research base through
their editorial and reviewing activities for leading international journals, leadership in academic
associations and learned societies, undertaking oversight roles and contributing to funding
decisions of research councils and charitable trusts. We are a globally-facing UoA in the
production of knowledge and scholarship. The geographical spread of our academic
collaborations and contributions to our disciplinary and interdisciplinary research base is truly
global, stretching from North America to SE Asia and China, and encompassing the global South.

In the sections below there are many examples of our collaborative relationships, diverse with
respect to non-academic and academic partners and geography, illustrating how our academic
community of practice has benefited the academy, economy and society.

4.1 Collaboration and Contribution to Economy and Society
Specific collaborations, leading to outputs, funding partnerships and impact include:
   •   Private sector, third sectors and professional organisations (including: Charter Court
       Financial Services; Chartered Institute of Management Accountants; Association of
       Chartered Certified Accountants; Co-operatives UK; European Transport Workers
       Federation; Gousto; Institute of Chartered Accountants in Scotland; IpsosMori; Jupiter
       Asset Management; London Stock Exchange; Tesco; TUC; Unilever; USS; Waterwise.
   •   Government, regulatory and public bodies, and policy organisations (including Association
       of British Insurers; Bank of England (Two REF Impact Case Studies); Bristol City Council;
       Bristol Green Capital Partnership; Business Council Archive, UK; DEFRA; Demos;
       Deutsche Bundesbank; European Central Bank; Hagley Museum & Library, USA;
       European Financial Reporting Advisory Group; Financial Conduct Authority (REF Impact
       Case Study); Financial Reporting Council; Food Standards Agency; HM Home Office; HM
       Treasury (REF Impact Case Study); International Accounting Standards Board (REF
       Impact Case Study); ILO; IMF; The National Archives, UK; NHS and NIHR; Management


                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
         Consultancies Association; Prudential Regulatory Authority; World Bank; West of England
         Combined Authority).

4.2 Advisory Roles, Consulting Roles
Examples include membership of the: Council, British Association of Management (Decker);
Healthcare Financial Management Association (Chapman); Institute of Chartered Accountants of
Scotland Research Panel (Clatworthy); International Committee, CABS (Nairn); Trustee,
Sociological Review Foundation (Evans); Board member, NARTI (Mangan); Chair, ACCA Global
Forum (Michelon); Consultant, World Bank’s Global Development Report (Schaeck); Consultant,
NHS Improvement (Veronesi); Member, ESRC Strategic Advisory Network (Wilson); Consultant,
Bank of England (Danisewicz); Chair, Royal Geographical Society Economic Geography
Research Group (Johns); Member, Chartered Institute of Management Accountants R&D Advisory
Panel (Chapman)

4.3 Fellowships
Numerous prestigious fellowships have been awarded to staff, including: Norman-Houblon George
Fellowship (Stoja); Fellow, ICMCI (Sturdy); Visiting Scholar, Deutsche Bundesbank (Schaeck);
Visiting Professor, VU Amsterdam (Sturdy); Velux Professorship, Copenhagen Business School
(Morgan); Visiting Research Fellow, Copenhagen Business School, Visiting Professor, University of
Gothenburg, Visiting Fellow, University of Cagliari (Decker); Visiting Professor, University of
Copenhagen, Adjunct Professor Norwegian Consumer Research Centre (Southerton); Eminent
Visiting Fellow, University of Western Sydney (Andrijasevic); Fellow, University of Edinburgh
Business School (Nairn, Morgan); Visiting Professor, Leicester and Loughborough Universities
(Beaverstock); Bristol University Research Fellowship (Andrijasevic); Distinguished Fellow,
Schumacher Institute, and Research Fellow, Wellbeing Economy Alliance (Parker).

4.4 Academic Collaborations, and Contribution to Research Base

4.4.1 Journal Editorships and Reviewing
The UoA encourages staff to become involved in editing leading international journals to ensure
they stay at the forefront of their disciplines while developing and sustaining the wider international
academic research infrastructure. During the REF period examples of editorial positions held
include:

     •    Accounting and Business Research       Clatworthy, Joint Editor
     •    Accounting Forum                       Michelon, Editor
                                                 Uche, Associate Editor
     •    Accounting, Organizations, and         Chapman, Editor-in-Chief, then Editor
          Society
     •    The Accounting Review                  Chapman, Editor
     •    British Accounting Review              Cooper, Associate Editor
                                                 Ozkan, Associate Editor
                                                 Jones, Associate Editor
     •    Business History                       Decker, Co-editor, then Editor-in-Chief
     •    Contemporary Accounting Research       Chapman, Consulting Editor
     •    Feminist Review                        Andrijasevic, Co-Editor
     •    Gender, Work & Organization            Phillips, Associate Editor
                                                 Vachhani, Associate Editor
     •    Global Networks – a journal of         Beaverstock, Associate Editor, then
          transnational affairs                  Editor-in-Chief

                                                                                               Page 21
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
       •    Healthcare Services Management         Veronesi, Associate Editor
            Research
       •    Information, Technology and People     Bernardi, Senior Editor
       •    International Journal of Forecasting   Harris, Associate Editor
       •    International Journal of Market        Nairn, Executive Board
            Research
       •    International Journal of Operations    Smart, Associate Editor
            and Production Management
       •    Journal of Forecasting                 Harris, Associate Editor
       •    Journal of Management Inquiry          Sturdy, Associate Editor
       •    Journal of Money, Credit and           Schaeck, Associate Editor
            Banking
       •    Organization                           Andrijasevic, Associate Editor
       •    Organization Studies                   Parker, Senior Editor
       •    Organizations and Activism             Parker, Co-Editor
            book series for Bristol University
            Press
       •    Public Money and Management            Ellwood, Deputy editor
       •    Work, Employment and Society           Beck, General Editor, Book Review
                                                   Editor

Staff regularly act as guest editors of leading journals’ special themed issues, for example :
   •       British Journal of Management (Tonks, “Sustainable Corporate Governance” & Parker,
           “Sustainability”); Business History (Decker, “Historical Research on Institutional Change”);
           Feminist Review (Andrijasevic, Schwartz, ”Digital labour”); Industrial Marketing
           Management (Wang, “Technological innovation in support of B2B in international trade”);
           International Journal of Production Economics (Wang, “Sustainable Food Supply Chain
           Management”); Journal of Business Research (Wang, “Global environment, contemporary
           business risks and business failures); Organization (Parker, “Howard Becker”;
           Andrijasevic, “Foreign workers on the other side of gendered, political and ethical
           borders”); Political Quarterly (Pitts, “The politics of post-capitalism”); Technological
           Forecasting and Technical Change (Zhang, “Digitalization adding value to healthcare”;
           Transport Research Part E (Wang, “Supply chains and Belt and Road Initiative”).
In addition, UoA staff sit on editorial boards of leading international journals, including:
   •       Action Research (Gaya); Accounting and Business Research (Chapman, Cooper,
           Korczak A., Michelon); Accounting Forum (Chapman, Cooper, Jones); Accounting
           History (Jones); Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal (Cooper, Jones); Anti-
           Trafficking Review (Andrijasevic); British Accounting Review (Bryer); European
           Accounting Review (Clatworthy, Michelon); Industrial Management and Data Systems
           (Wang); International Journal of Information Management (Slade); International Journal of
           Inventory Research (Wang); Journal of Contemporary European Studies (Beaverstock);
           Journal of Professions and Organizations (Morgan, Sturdy); Journal of Retailing and
           Consumer Services (Pantano); Journal of Sustainable Production and Consumption
           (Southerton); Management Accounting Research (Chapman); Management Learning
           (Sturdy); Mobilities (Beaverstock); New Technology, Work and Employment (Sturdy),
           Organization (Morgan, Parker, Sturdy); Organization Studies (Decker, Sturdy); Social
           Marketing Quarterly (Spotswood); Sociological Review (Evans); Transnational
           Corporations (Beaverstock); Transportation Research Part E: Logistics and Transportation
           Review (Wang); Work Employment and Society (Pitts).

                                                                                                 Page 22
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
4.4.2 Leadership/Participation in Academic Institutions/Learned Societies
   •   Academy of Social Sciences, Fellow (Southerton, Tonks); African Accounting and
       Finance Association, Executive (Uche); European Accounting Association, Management
       Committee (Clatworthy, Michelon); Accounting Resources Centre (Clatworthy,
       Michelon); Publications Committee (Michelon); European Commission’s COST
       Programme, China in Europe Network, member (Andrijasevic); European Institute for
       Advanced Studies in Management, President (Chapman); Royal Academy of Arts, Fellow
       (Beaverstock, Nairn); Royal Geographical Society, Fellow (Beaverstock, Evans, Johns);
       Society for the Advancement of Socio-Economics, President and Executive Council
       (Morgan); UK Innovation Caucus, member (Smart).
In addition, staff lead international conferences and workshops, including:
   •   Annual Corporate Finance Conference (Ozkan); Annual Bristol Banking and Financial
       Intermediation Workshop, Financial Intermediation Network of European Studies Workshop
       (Schaeck); EGOS streams (Sturdy); Financial Reporting and Business Communication
       Conference (Jones); Accountability, Sustainability and Governance Workshop (Michelon);
       EIASM New Directions in Management Accounting Conference (Chapman).

4.4.3 Research Councils and Grant Awarding Committees
The close relationship of the UoA with the academic community is reflected in the representation of
our staff on grant awarding committees, including:
   •   BBSRC (Evans, Southerton); British Academy (Andrijasevic, Decker); Carnegie Fund for
       Scotland (Decker); Carnegie Trust (Sturdy); Chinese Sociological Association
       (Southerton); Danish Research Council (Andrijasevic, Southerton); Estonia Research
       Council (Slade); EPSRC (Evans, Slade, Southerton, Smart); ESRC (Andrijasevic,
       Beaverstock, Chapman, Decker, Evans, Slade, Smart, Southerton, Sturdy, Tonks);
       European Commission (Andrijasevic); European Research Council (Morgan, Schaeck);
       EU Horizon 2020, (Andrijasevic, Beck); Flanders Research Foundation (Beaverstock);
       Irish Research Council (Tonks); Leverhulme Trust (Andrijasevic, Decker, Schaeck);
       Medical Research Council (Evans); Netherlands Research Council (Evans, Schaeck);
       Norwegian Research Council (Morgan); Social Science and Humanities Research Council
       Canada (Andrijasevic); Swedish Research Council (Southerton); Switzerland Research
       Council (Morgan); UK Innovation Caucus (Smart); UKRI (Acker; Decker; Tonks, Wang).

4.4.4 Awards and Prizes
   •   Halloran Prize History of Corporate Responsibility (2014), Business History Conference
       (USA), Frankfurt; Henrietta Larson Award for best article (2018) Business History Review;
       Emerald citation of excellence (2017) Rowlinson M., et al. (2014) ‘Research strategies in
       organisational history’ AMR (Decker); Thomas P Hustad Best Paper award (2018) Journal
       of Product Innovation Management (Smart); Centre for Management Consulting
       Excellence Research Award (2019); Lyndall F Urwick Memorial Cup (2016) for best
       research in management consulting (Sturdy); Best paper award (2017) British Academy of
       Management (Suzuki); BAFA Distinguished Accounting Academic (2017) (Tonks); Best
       paper award OBHC (2018) Montreal and (2020) Manchester (Veronesi).




                                                                                          Page 23
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
4.4.5 International Research Collaborations
Staff are involved in international research collaborations engaging in joint publications, research
grant capture and network building with over 70 universities worldwide:
   •   Africa and Middle East
           o Cape Coast (Ghana) (Owen); Cape Town (Uche); Dar-Es-Salaam (Uche); Ghana
               (Decker); Hebrew (Morgan, Sturdy); Johannesburg (Decker); Pan Atlantic Lagos
               (Uche); Rwanda (Decker).
   •   Americas
           o Alberta (Biswas), Boston (Korczak, P), Chicago (Michelon), Santiago (Chile)
               (Korczak, A), Concordia (Andrijasevic), Contreras (Chile) (Korczak, A), Florida
               International (Korczak), Georgia State (Wang), Houston (Hill), Indiana (Korczak,
               A), Illinois State (Michelon), Illinois Urbana-Champaign (Decker), Kentucky
               (Owen), Laval (Canada) (Michelon), Maryland (Decker), Montreal (Morgan,
               Thomas, Turnbull, Veronesi), Miami Ohio (Decker), Michigan State (Morgan),
               Nacional de la Plata (Argentina) (Scapin), North Carolina (Decker), Pontificia
               Católica (Ecuador) (Ellwood), Rutgers (Nairn), South Carolina (Owen), St. Francis
               Xavier (Canada) (Ho), Texas Technology (Michelon), UC Irvine (Tischer), San
               Andrés (Argentina) (Scapin), York (Canada) (Decker).
   •   Asia
           o Electronic Science and Technology of China (Sheng, Wang), Hong Kong
               (Andrijasevic), Hong Kong Polytechnic (Wang), Kyoto (Chapman, Suzuki),
               Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies Mumbai (Nairn), Sabanci (Turkey)
               (Decker), Shandong (Sheng), South West University of Science and Technology
               (China) (Wang), Tsinghua (Wang).
   •   Europe
           o Aalto (Pugh), Bocconi (Clatworthy, Decker, Taylor), Bologna (Pantano), Calabria
               (Pantano), Copenhagen Business School (Chapman, Decker, Morgan, Parker,
               Southerton, Tischer), Corvinus Budapest (Farkas), EDHEC Business School
               (Friederich), Erasmus Rotterdam (Decker, Farkas), ESCP Europe (Biswas),
               Florence (Pantano), Ghent (Beaverstock), Gottingen (Beaverstock), Gothenburg
               (Michelon), Groningen (Hill, Korczak, A, Zheng), HEC Paris (Biswas), Humboldt
               Berlin (Clatworthy), IESEG (France) (Michelon), Lille (Nairn), Luxembourg
               (Beaverstock), Mannheim (Decker), Milan (Pitts), Naples Federico II (Michelon,
               Veronesi), Padova (Michelon), Padua (Andrijasevic), Parma (Pantano), Seville
               (Veronesi), Tampere (Michelon), Tilburg (Horvath), Turin (Pantano), Carlos III de
               Madrid (Clatworthy, Rubio, Scapin), Uppsala (Decker), Verona (Veronesi),
               Wageningen (Owen).
   •   Oceanian
           o ANU (Veronesi), Flinders (Beaverstock), Otago (Suzuki), Sydney (Chapman,
               Veronesi, Xu), UTS Sydney (Andrijasevic, Chapman, Veronesi).




                                                                                              Page 24
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
4.5 Key research collaborations, networks and partnerships, including relationships with
key research users, beneficiaries or audiences

4.5.1 Selected Collaborative Research Activity with External Partners Supported by External
Research Income
    • Andrijasevic: with INTEL Inc. (Portland, USA) and the European Trade Union Institute.
    • Clatworthy: with European Financial Reporting Advisory Group and Institute of Chartered
       Accountants in Scotland.
    • Danisewicz: with the Bank of England on macroprudential spill overs.
    • Decker: with the British Archives Council to save the Thomas Cook Archive.
    • Ellwood: on a large NIHR grant on patient costing, and smaller grants from accounting
       professional bodies and regulators.
    • Morgan, Thomas and Turnbull: with the CRIMT network funded by the Social Science
       and Humanities Research Council of Canada (Canadian $10M).
    • Parker: partner in 4Ces European Social Economy network (EU Erasmus + e1M).
    • Schaeck: PI of a large grant with Deutsche Bundesbank to understand the unintended
       effects of new regulations under Basel III for interest rate risk management.
    • Stoja: collaborator in several research projects with the Bank of England.
    • Tonks: collaborator in several research projects on pensions with HM Treasury, in
       collaboration from Prudential Regulatory Authority, Financial Conduct Authority, the
       Association of British Insurers, and USS.

4.5.2 Selected Advisory Activities with Practice, Policy and Professional Organisations
   •   Andrijasevic: Advisory Board, ‘Border Policies and Sovereignty’, Free University,
       Amsterdam.
   •   Bryer: Expert, UN Sustainable Development Goals, International Cooperative Alliance.
   •   Beaverstock: Advisor, Flemish and Luxembourg Research Council project, ‘Fintech
       clusters in the EU’.
   •   Clatworthy: Academic Panel member, Financial Reporting Council.
   •   Ellwood: advised the House of Lords (Lord Bichard) on the influence of female presence
       and leadership on Boards of Directors. Presented evidence to two Parliamentary Select
       Committees on a review of government accounting, and Women and Equalities
       Commission, respectively.
   •   Evans: Advisory panel, Annual Report of the Government Chief Scientific Advisor and
       DEFRA Chief Scientist: ‘Waste – Closing the Loop on Resource Efficiency’.
   •   Johns: Academic Advisor, Reshoring UK and the GTMA Trade Association.
   •   Michelon: Expert, ‘Corporate reporting and sustainability’, EFRAG, EU Joint Research
       Center and European Banking Authority; Member, Chartered Accountants’ Livery Charity
       (ICAEW Foundation) PhD bursaries committee.
   •   Nairn: Advisor, PM David Cameron's Strategy Unit, banning of child peer-to-peer
       marketing; Advisor, House of Lords Communication Committee's Inquiry, ‘Advertising in a
       digital age’; Member, multi-stakeholder projects with UNICEF, UN, Brazilian Justice
       Ministry, Unilever, Coca-Cola, Public Health England for the Economist Intelligence Unit, ‘A
       cost-benefit analysis of banning child-directed advertising in Brazil’.
   •   Parker: co-author of policy documents on SMEs, localism, sustainability, mutuals and co-
       operatives for John McDonnell MP and the Labour Party treasury team; Director, Bristol
       Green Capital Partnership; Advisory board for the Bristol Pound.


                                                                                           Page 25
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
   •   Pitts: advising the Labour Party, ‘The politics of capitalism and post-capitalism’ (Political
       Quarterly); and Bristol City Council, ‘co-working and the gig economy’.
   •   Schaeck: consultant, Deutsche Bundesbank, Banking Supervision Directorate and the
       World Bank.
   •   Smart: member, UK Government's Innovation Caucus to Innovate UK, ESRC and BIES;
       Trustee, Research and Development Management Association; led The FTSE 100 Women
       in Manufacturing EEF Report; supported EEF Future of Manufacturing Awards.
   •   Southerton: Advisory panel, Annual Report of the Government Chief Scientific Advisor and
       DEFRA Chief Scientist: ‘Waste: Closing the Loop on Resource Efficiency’; Member, Bristol
       City Council Environment Strategy Board; Expert, UK Citizen’s Assembly on Climate
       Change
   •   Sturdy: Academic Fellow, International Council of Management Consulting Institutes;
       advising on the use of management consultancy in the NHS, and Consulting in Healthcare
       Management sector, Management Consultancies Association (with Veronesi).
   •   Tonks: Member, Sub-Panel 19 REF2014; Member Sub-Panel 17 REF2021; Deputy Chair,
       Hong Kong research assessment panel for Business & management RAE2020.
   •   Wilson: Member: CLOSER Advisory Committee (https://www.closer.ac.uk/); ESRC Covid-
       19 Commissioning Panel; West of England Combined Authority Industrial Strategy Panel.
   •   Veronesi: Collaborator, NHS Improvement for the development of the Model Hospital
       (benchmark dashboard for all NHS organisations).

4.5.3 Selected Invitations to give Keynote Addresses to International Academic and
Practitioner Conferences and Events
   •   Andrijasevic: Keynote: Workshop Challenging the political beyond and across borders,
       Central European University, Budapest, 2016.
   •   Beaverstock: Keynotes: International Sociology Association RC31 Conference, Doha,
       2016; Global Studies Masterclass, University of Ghent, 2014; Drivers and Dynamics of
       Highly-Skilled Migration, Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, University of Oxford, 2014.
   •   Bryer: Cooperative UK Practitioners’ Forum, 2019.
   •   Chapman: Conference Plenaries: British Accounting and Finance Association annual
       meeting (50th), London, 2014; Healthcare Financial Management Association Annual
       costing conference, London, 2016; and, Inaugural workshop, ‘Accounting as a social and
       organizational practice’, University of Sydney, 2018.
   •   Cooper: Keynote: Non-Financial Reporting for a Sustainable Circular Economy, Brussels,
       2018.
   •   Decker: Keynote: Association of Business Historians (UK) annual conference, University of
       Sheffield, 2019.
   •   Ellwood: Plenary address: ACCA symposium, Future of Financial Reporting, London,
       2019.
   •   Evans: Keynote: European Sociological Association Sociology of Consumption Network
       Conference, Copenhagen, 2018.
   •   Morgan: Plenary addresses, Annual conference Society for the Advancement of Socio-
       Economics, 2015 (LSE): Conference on Asian Capitalisms (Seoul National University,
       2015).
   •   Parker: Keynotes: Beyond metrics: measuring the immeasurable in higher education
       conference, London School of Business and Management, 2018; (Per)formative Diversity
       workshop, Copenhagen Business School, 2018; Plenary keynote: Atlantic Schools of
       Business conference, St Mary’s University, Canada, 2016.

                                                                                           Page 26
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
   •   Schaeck: Plenary presentations: International Banking, Economics, and Finance
       Association Meeting, Vancouver, 2018; FEBS Conference, Rome, 2018; FINEST Meeting,
       2018, 2015; Royal Economic Society, 2017; International Association of Deposit Insurers,
       Basel, 2015; Scientific Committee Member Deutsche Bundesbank Conference, 2017;
       Deutsche Bundesbank, Conference, 2019.
   •   Spotswood: Keynote, Behavioural Insights Network Cross-Government Conference,
       London, 2018.
   •   Tonks: Plenary DAA lecture, BAFA Annual Conference, Birmingham UK, 2019.
   •   Turnbull: Keynote 9th Global Pilots Symposium, International Federation of Airline Pilots’
       Association, Berlin, 2019.
   •   Veronesi: Plenary address: 7th Colloque Sante’, Marseille, 2017; Governing boards of
       healthcare organizations, Department of Health, Canberra, 2016.

4.6 PhD examining
Staff regularly act as external examiners of PhD research internationally, including:
   •   Aalborg (Chapman, Southerton); ANU (Cooper), Ca’Foscari Venice (Decker); Cape
       Town (Decker); Copenhagen Business School (Owen, Parker, Vachhani); EM Lyon
       (Parker x2); Universidad de Jaen (Scapin); Jyvaeskyla (Decker); Tilburg (Clatworthy);
       Carlos III de Madrid (Clatworthy); Seville (Veronesi); Ghent (Beaverstock); Lappeenranta
       (Parker); Louvain (Pantano); Malaysia (Decker); Melbourne (Parker); New England,
       Australia (Beck); Paris Dauphine University (Morgan); Pisa (Pantano); Queensland
       (Parker); Vassa (Korczak, P).
Nationally, including:
   •   Ashridge (Gaya), Bath (Taylor), Bedfordshire (Smart), Bradford (Vachhani), Brighton
       (Beck), Bristol (Tonks x2 as external), Cardiff (Beck), Cambridge (Smart x5), City
       (Philips), De Montfort (Owen, Parker), Edinburgh (Clatworthy; Schaeck), Essex (Parker
       x3, Philips), Exeter (Clatworthy, Owen, Philips, Tonks), Hull (Bourne), KCL
       (Clatworthy), Keele (Southerton), Lancaster (Clatworthy), Leeds (Korczak, A, Smart),
       Liverpool (Beaverstock, Decker), Loughborough (Beaverstock x2; Cooper; Smart x2),
       Alliance MBS (Johns x2; Korczak, A; Morgan; Parker; Taylor), Middlesex (Gaya),
       Nottingham (Clatworthy), Oxford (Sturdy), Oxford Brooks (Parker), Reading (Taylor,
       Tonks), Royal Holloway (Cooper, Parker), St Andrews (Parker), Surrey (Parker), Sussex
       (Gaya), UEA (Parker, Smart), Westminster (Beck), Warwick (Decker, Parker), West of
       England (Parker), Wolverhampton (Veronesi), York (Decker, Wang).

Staff also contribute to PhD training at conferences and other institutions, including: CSEAR
Emerging Scholar Colloquium (Michelon); EAA PhD Forum (Chapman; Clatworthy); EIASM
EDEN Courses (Chapman); HEC Paris (Chapman); Narsee Monjee Institute of Management
Studies, Mumbai (Decker); Padova (Michelon); Stockholm School of Economics (Chapman)
Trinity Business School Dublin (Decker), Tilburg (Clatworthy; Decker).




                                                                                          Page 27
