Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Institution: University of Cambridge

 Unit of Assessment: 21 Sociology


 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview

 With institutional roots going back to the 1960s, Cambridge Sociology has become distinctive
 for its orientation towards a public sociology with a global outreach, and a rigorous
 commitment to diverse, innovative, critical, and collaborative research. The diversity and
 reach of this research is evident in key contributions to a number of fields ranging from
 science and technology studies, public health, politics and intellectual history to emerging
 fields such as reproductive sociology, digital sociology, the sociology of the environment, and
 the sociology of war. This research is marked by a commitment to methodological innovations
 that work across theory and data in order to generate new modes of social practice which we
 undertake with a wide range of partners around the world.

 Key highlights during the REF period include:

 •   £13.8 million awarded from major research bodies over the assessment period;
 •   More than 50 postdocs hosted during the assessment period;
 •   116 PhDs awarded during the assessment period;
 •   Extensive research collaborations across the globe, including a network of partnerships
     with organizations in the Global South and transnational organizations working at the
     highest policy levels;
 •   A clear increase in interdisciplinary research, demonstrating the relevance of sociology to
     other fields;
 •   A commitment to diversity in hiring and recruitment which has resulted in an increase of
     female and BAME staff, now amounting respectively to 46 and 31% of permanent
     academic posts.

 Research structure

 Following a Strategic Research Review involving an international panel of experts, Cambridge
 Sociology decided in 2016 to focus on three research themes: Science and Technology,
 Politics and Inequality, and Theory and Culture. The research themes serve as the basis
 for new hires, PhD admissions, recruitment of postdocs, grant writing and fundraising, as well
 as connections to research initiatives in the University and beyond.

 Situated within the Science and Technology theme is the Reproductive Sociology Research
 Group (ReproSoc), directed by Franklin. This group (with Dow, Smietana, van de Wiel) has
 supported 16 postdoctoral and 20 doctoral researchers with funding from 15 different bodies
 since 2013 that include the Wellcome Trust, British Academy, ESRC, ERC and internal
 funding. Also situated within this theme, the project CancerScreen led by Hogarth (with

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Löblova, funded by ERC and Wellcome) explores how diagnostics firms introduce new
 technologies into clinical practice and inform new disease categories. Additional projects in
 this thematic area include Burchell and Miller on post-traumatic stress amongst the police
 force, Coutts on evidence and wellbeing, and McPherson on machine learning, big data and
 the digital society. Several innovative practice-based social research projects are also
 situated with the Science and Technology theme. These include McPherson’s The Whistle
 (funded by EC H2020, Wikirate and ESRC Impact Acceleration grant), which investigates how
 information and communication technologies can produce new streams of verifiable data for
 documenting human rights violations. They also include Gabrys’ Citizen Sense (funded by
 an ERC Starting Grant) and AirKit (funded by an ERC Proof of Concept grant), which work
 with communities to install and test DIY environmental sensors for monitoring air pollution.
 These projects develop socially engaged methods for testing technologies and working with
 communities to document human rights, deliver reproductive and LGBTQ+ justice, and
 respond to environmental crises. Early Career Researchers (ECRs) include Pralat whose
 research (funded by Leverhulme Trust) focuses on sexual minorities and parenthood and Van
 Oudheusden whose investigations (funded by a Marie Curie fellowship) explore how citizen
 science groups relate to research communities and policy makers.

 The Politics and Inequality theme further extends the global reach of research conducted in
 the UoA. Desai is the PI on a project Urban Transformation and Gendered Violence in
 India and South Africa (funded by the ESRC), a comparative study that investigates
 gendered violence in urban and peri-urban India and South Africa. The project is a unique
 comparative investigation into the implications of rapid urban growth and attendant cultural
 transformations on the imagination, experience and discourse of gendered violence. Moreno
 Figueroa’s Latin American Antiracism in a ‘Post-Racial’ Age (funded by the ESRC) and
 Institutional Racism and the Contemporary Logics of the Mexico State (funded by the
 British Academy) investigates antiracist practices and ideologies in Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador
 and Mexico. Meghji has carried out empirical research about the Black middle class whilst
 also contributing to the development of a decolonial sociology. Through his Leverhulme Prize,
 and with additional support from a ProFutura Scientia Fellowship, Kandil is undertaking a
 study of the development of US war doctrine, and the relationship between conscription and
 democracy in France and Egypt. Funded by the ERC and Horizon 2020, King and
 Scheiring’s project Privmort studies the inequalities of health in the context of neoliberalism
 and global governance, whereas King and Fazekas’ project DigiWhist makes use of big
 data to study state corruption. Miley is carrying out research on struggles for self-
 determination, from Catalonia to Kurdistan, whilst Donker is investigating the politics of
 religion during political transformations in Syria and Tunisia. ECRs include Gazotti, whose
 research (funded by the British Academy and Royal Geographical Society) centres on the
 politics of border control in North Africa and Kollop whose investigations (funded by the
 ESRC) focus on political and government elites in the UK, US and France.

 Within the Theory and Culture theme, the project Sociology of Intellectuals led by Baert
 (with Booth, Morgan and Ushiyama) explores how intellectuals influence and interact with
 contemporary social and political developments. This work received funding from the British
 Academy, the Leverhulme Trust, and EC FP7. Several members of the UoA have developed
 innovative theoretical contributions with concrete applications in the cultural realm, for
 instance a performative perspective in the study of intellectuals (Baert), a framework that
 accounts for how developmental psychologists as public intellectuals shape clinical and child
 welfare practice (Duschinsky), an exploration of the notion of translation in science studies
 (Franklin), applications of the notions of ideology and counter-hegemony in analysing

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 religiously inspired political movements (Kandil, Donker), a social constructionist perspective
 on addiction (Weinberg), a proposal for a decolonised social theory (Meghji), a sociological
 humanism inspired by neo-pragmatist philosophy (Morgan), and a critical realist perspective
 on technology and culture (Lawson). Leading research on global knowledge studies is a key
 part of the UoA, with work by Hamati-Ataya investigating how different epistemic
 configurations come into existence through the ARTEFACT project funded by an ERC
 Consolidator grant, which has further supported the establishment of an aligned Centre for
 Global Knowledge Studies .

 The UoA encourages bottom-up collaborative work by funding PhD student-led research
 clusters. The clusters are often interdisciplinary, and span research themes while enhancing
 synergies between faculty, postdocs and PhD students. Research clusters include Science
 and Technology Studies; The Individual in the Labour Market; Race Research; Reprograd,
 Technology and New Media Research and Political Sociology.

 Research objectives

 Over the past seven years the UoA has developed a focused research strategy that supports
 research projects across early-career and established researchers. We have built on three
 goals outlined in 2014, including:

 1. to further develop and consolidate our core areas of research;
 2. to forge and deepen innovative research collaborations within and beyond Cambridge;
 3. to produce cutting-edge research supported by major funding bodies

 We have succeeded in meeting these goals by:

 1. reformulating our research strategy along three research themes which informs our staff
      recruitment strategy, as well as planning and teaching.
 2. intensifying our contribution to University research initiatives and centres, while further
      developing international collaborations.
 3. increasing our funded research income, having received £13.8 million from major research
      bodies over the assessment period.

 For our 2021 submission, we have identified four key research objectives that will guide our
 efforts over the next five years:

 1. Expand our core Research Themes with new funding and staff
 We have launched a major fundraising initiative to appoint a Chair in LGBTQ+ research, and
 additional fundraising initiatives to establish a new Centre for the Study of Race and Racism,
 together with a Jo Cox postdoctoral fellowship to develop research themes such as social
 cohesion, alienation, loneliness, as well as migration and development. In addition, we are
 pursuing the establishment of an intercollegiate platform for social theory. We have also
 streamlined our process and improved our infrastructure to support major research bids.

 2. Build stronger links to strategic research partners within and outside Cambridge
 The UoA will continue to connect with research beyond the UoA by directing and advancing
 contributions to University-wide interdisciplinary networks, strategic research initiatives and
 centres. We seek to further engage with other subjects in the humanities and social sciences,


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ranging from the history of science (Weinberg, Duschinsky) and intellectual and political
 history (Baert, Kandil) to Latin American studies (Moreno Figueroa) and studies of human
 rights and global challenges (Desai, McPherson, Moreno Figueroa). We are actively
 developing stronger links to the STEM community through initiatives in the sociology of the
 environment (Gabrys), the sociology of biomedicine (Dushinksy, Hogarth), LGBTQ+ and
 the sociology of reproduction (Franklin) and new digital technologies (McPherson, Gabrys).
 We will build further on our existing national and international links with research groups
 outside of Cambridge, such as the Digital Verification Corps and DIGIT (digit-research.org),
 the Faculty of Humanities at the University of Johannesburg, the Centre d’études
 européennes et de politique comparée at Sciences Po and the Weatherhead Centre at
 Harvard.

 3. Build on our strengths in delivering a transformational public sociology for a
 changing world
 We are working internally at Cambridge to demonstrate the value of sociological research as
 part of an agenda for institutional change to overcome obstacles to equity, inclusivity and
 widening participation. Externally we are building partnerships with organisations such as The
 Voice, Britain’s largest newspaper for the Black community, with whom we are developing a
 first-in-kind study called the Black British Voices Project. The UoA will build on its profile in
 public sociology by strengthening work in public engagement, policy, activism, practical social
 theory and practice-based research.

 4. Improve our research infrastructure
 In 2021, after 5 years of being in temporary accommodation, we are due to move back into
 our former accommodation in the Old Cavendish Laboratory on Free School Lane. This move
 will offer significantly improved facilities: with better offices, meeting rooms, and
 communication infrastructure for all staff, as well as more desk space for postdocs and PhD
 research students. We will further seek to improve research infrastructure through identifying
 and providing seed funding and support for pilot initiatives, solidifying support for our research
 administration, and encouraging initiatives that provide shared resources for supporting a
 culture of research inquiry.

 Enabling impact

 One of the most distinctive strengths of Cambridge Sociology is its exceptional track record of
 successful collaborations with a wide range of partners outside the academy, ranging from
 community groups and third sector organisations to government and regulatory bodies and
 business and professional associations. Over half the research in the UoA employs innovative
 practices and methods to connect with politicians and policymakers, technologists and
 practitioners, community groups and activists. This approach aligns with our research strategy
 objective to promote and advance distinct forms of public sociology, which experiment with
 new methods and modes of outreach while demonstrating the relevance of sociological
 research to diverse social groups and concerns. Our impact strategy ensures that resources
 are available to support impact at various phases of projects (e.g. at the level of
 conceptualisation and costing, as well as documenting, communicating and reviewing
 impact).

 We host Department-level impact workshops for staff and postdocs to exchange knowledge
 and skills on impact activities. The School of Humanities and Social Sciences provides impact

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 training sessions to support all stages of research impact activities. The UoA and Schools
 develop and monitor impact cases through support activities including ESRC Impact
 Acceleration Awards and the Arts and Humanities Impact Fund (AHIF). A number of staff
 have been successful in obtaining ESRC Impact Acceleration Awards up to £20K, including
 Burchell for work on zero-hours contracts and for a video on the labour market response to
 the COVID-19 economic crisis; Jent and Franklin for their work on ‘Dish Life’, a film on the
 laboratory life of scientists working on stem cells (with further funding from the Wellcome
 Trust Institutional Strategic Support Fund to support public engagement); McPherson for her
 work on The Whistle focusing on alternative forms of evidence in relation to human rights
 violations; and Moreno Figueroa for “Latin American Antiracism in a ‘Post-Racial’ Age” which
 included the production of infographs and films on cases of anti-racist work. At University
 level, the Vice-Chancellor’s Research Impact and Engagement Awards recognise and reward
 those whose research has led to excellent impact beyond academia. In 2019, Miller received
 an early-career VC award for her work on policing and trauma, which is also included as one
 of the UoA’s impact case studies.

 The UoA works with centres and networks at the University to expand the reach of research
 activities, including through collaborations with Cambridge Enterprise, the University’s
 commercialisation arm, in order to develop the commercial potential of research, especially in
 relation to digital social research, public engagement formats, and multimedia productions;
 this includes Dishlife (Franklin and Jent) and Social Science Analysis of the Breast
 Screening Controversy (Hogarth).

 Interdisciplinary research

 The UoA undertakes and supports pioneering interdisciplinary research that contributes to
 core sociological concerns, while giving rise to new areas of sociological inquiry and
 relevance. As noted above, the UoA facilitates and funds research activities that join up with
 interdisciplinary networks and initiatives across the University and beyond, with collaborative
 projects in public health and reproduction, digital social research and big data, as well as
 cultural sociology and public policy. This support for interdisciplinary research ties in with our
 research strategy through our research themes and objectives, as well as through our work in
 public sociology, which demonstrate our commitment to advancing the relevance of
 sociological research across multiple disciplines, for example, by working to advance more
 ethical and socially engaged approaches to science and technology.

 There are numerous interdisciplinary research projects and connections underway through
 the UoA. These include, for the science and technology theme, Hogarth’s social research on
 biomedicine, which involves collaborations on projects relating to gene patenting with
 researchers at the Cambridge Centre for Law, Medicine and the Life Sciences at the Faculty
 of Law and the University of Copenhagen's Centre for Advanced Studies in Biomedical
 Innovation Law; Smietana’s social research on surrogacy, which involves collaborations with
 anthropologists and gender scholars at Cambridge and the University of California Berkeley
 Gender & Women's Studies Department (through funding from a Marie Sklodowska-Curie
 Fellowship); and Pralat’s Men's Attitudes to Intimate Life (MAIL) study, a collaboration
 between the University and three London NHS Trusts (Chelsea and Westminster, Homerton,
 and Royal Free).




                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Within the politics and inequality theme, McPherson collaborates with researchers in
 computer science, governance and human rights, and political science, to develop The
 Whistle, an online platform for alternative modes of reporting human rights violations.
 Relatedly, McPherson and Moreno Figueroa’s End Everyday Racism project uses The
 Whistle’s technology to map out racist incidents within the University. Kandil works with
 historians at Cambridge and Queen Mary University of London on the use of historical
 methods within social sciences, and he also collaborates with biologists at the Cambridge-
 based Centre for the Study of Existential Risk on a series of publications on biosecurity.
 Finally, Donker’s funded research on Syria involves collaborations with Syrian researchers
 including a geographer, demographist, and historian, as well as a UK-based economist (Faek
 Men Ali, University of Sussex).


 Open research environment

 The UoA benefits from University support to researchers for ensuring that research materials
 are published and available through open access infrastructures. These support mechanisms
 include an institutional University Repository, run by the Open Access team, which oversees
 deposits and ensures that publisher embargoes are observed. In addition, the University runs
 a Research Data Champions programme, to which the Department’s Research Administrator
 contributes in order to promote open data and open access. The University contributes to
 national and international initiatives for open access, including the UK Concordat on Open
 Research Data. Moreno Figueroa developed a trilingual website (Spanish, Portuguese and
 English) for the Latin American Antiracism in a ‘Post-Racial’ Age project. Members of the UoA
 are active as editors and editorial team members on several high-profile and leading open
 access journals, including Franklin as Editor in Chief of Reproductive Biomedicine Online,
 and Gabrys as editorial team member of Big Data & Society. Research-active staff also
 publish their research materials and findings as open data, for instance, with Gabrys’s
 Citizen Sense and AirKit research projects: where citizen data, toolkits, videos, and code are
 openly available on project websites, platforms and repositories, including Github and Vimeo.

 Research integrity and ethics

 The research culture within the UoA is tightly integrated with several systems of research
 oversight and support to maintain, promote, and protect research integrity. These include the
 Departmental Research Committee (chaired by Gabrys), and HoD approval system for all
 funded research. The Department’s Risk and Ethics Committee consists of five academic
 members (Burchell as Chair, Iacovou, Pralat, Ramsden, Watson). The committee
 members review all research projects involving empirical data collection, including student
 dissertations, and academic staff research projects. This review process aims to evaluate and
 mitigate risks to participants and researchers, as well as ensuring legal and ethical
 compliance. It further ensures data that is collected will be anonymised and kept safely. To
 this end, in his role as Data Champion, the Research Administrator reviews research
 applications and projects to ensure best practices are observed for research data
 management and data ethics, and to ensure compliance with GDPR and relevant national
 data regulations. More complex research projects are sent for further review at both School
 and central University levels to ensure key principles of ethical research are followed.




                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Section 2. People

 In the REF period, we have made a series of highly successful and strategic appointments
 that place us in an ideal position to realise our core research objectives. The UoA is now
 comprised of 31 members of staff engaged in social research, with 25 members based in the
 Department, 1 member from the Centre for Research in the Arts, Social Sciences and
 Humanities who is affiliated with our department (Hamati-Ataya), 1 member from the
 Institute of Public Health who is affiliated with our department (Duschinsky), 1 college
 member (Lawson), and 3 members holding Junior Research Fellowships (JRFs) at University
 colleges (Islam, Mulcahy, Stevenson). Members include established staff as well as a
 number of postdoctoral researchers who are working on individual and collaborative research
 projects.


 Staffing strategy and development

 The UoA has undertaken strategic growth in order to expand its research foci within its core
 thematic areas. From 1 August 2013, the Department has appointed 7 new academic staff in
 permanent positions, of which 3 have been replacement posts, and 4 have been new
 positions supported through central University funding. Due to the retirement and departure of
 staff, including Professors Thompson and King, replacement posts have afforded the
 opportunity to appoint outstanding new members of staff, including Meghji to a Lectureship in
 the Sociology of Inequalities (replacing King), and Gabrys to a Chair in Media, Culture and
 Environment (replacing Thompson). These replacement posts allow us to pursue the growth
 and advancement of research activities in political inequality, public sociology, digital social
 research, as well as to add environmental sociology and environmental change to our
 research profile.

 Our postdoc community has greatly expanded in size since the last assessment. During this
 assessment period the UoA has hosted over 50 postdocs, and this submission includes 14
 postdoctoral investigators undertaking self-directed research, of which 3 are advanced
 researchers and 11 are ECRs. Amongst the early career researchers 6 won a competitive
 grant (3 Junior Research Fellows, one British Academy Fellow, one Leverhulme Early Career
 Fellow and one Marie Curie Fellow) and 5 are research associates working independently
 within larger projects funded by the ERC, Wellcome, ESRC, and H2020. Postdocs make a
 vital and substantial contribution to our research culture and their projects are closely aligned
 with our strategic research objectives and research themes.

 Our staffing strategy will continue to pursue strategic growth in core areas, including a focus
 on increasing the numbers of research-active staff on permanent contracts. As part of our
 drive to further improve our research standing and profile in the field and advance sociology
 as a core discipline at Cambridge, we are currently working with the Development and Alumni
 Relations office (CUDAR) to raise funds for a Chair in LGBTQ+ that will be linked to our
 Politics and Inequality research theme. In addition to these plans for permanent staff
 positions, we are exploring options to attract Visiting Professors: for instance through funding
 with the British Academy Global Professorship scheme, through partnerships with colleges,
 and through funded research.




                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Staffing and recruitment

 The UoA has been a front-runner in ensuring equality and diversity in the process of
 recruitment (e.g. explicit articulation in job adverts, an ethnically diverse recruitment panel)
 and this has led to an increasingly diverse demographic profile of research-active staff. As a
 result, in terms of permanent posts, the UoA now has significantly higher than average
 numbers of female (46%) and BAME (31%) staff (who together comprise 61.5% of permanent
 staff). This submission as a whole consists of 48% women and 25% BAME staff.

 Supporting ECRs

 ECRs contribute to the Department in a number of ways, including through teaching,
 supervising, reading groups, outreach events, organisation and participation in events
 (including our Sociology 50th Anniversary Conference, and the Festival of Ideas and the
 Festival of Science). Over the past 7 years, Sociology’s ECRs have achieved exceptional
 research outcomes, and have gained major funding, led research networks, and formed new
 research collaborations, while progressing their careers. Examples of such collaborations
 include Merleau-Ponty’s social research on biomedical translation with the INSERM-Michel
 Pucéat Lab in France, Jent’s ethnography of laboratory scientists with the Cambridge Centre
 for Trophoblast Research and Morgan’s sociology of intellectuals with the Yale Centre for
 Cultural Sociology. Sociology’s postdoctoral community includes researchers attached to
 collaborative research projects as well as a number who have won competitive research
 fellowships that have developed our research themes, including work on culture and
 reproduction (van de Wiel, Wellcome Trust); sexuality, family, health, and gender (Pralat,
 Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellow, British HIV Association Research Award); Japanese
 nationalism and cultural sociology (Ushiyama, JRF and British Academy Postdoctoral
 Fellowship); surrogacy and families (Smietana, Marie Sklodowska-Curie Individual Outgoing
 Fellowship); and the political economy of resources allocation in health care (Loblova,
 Wellcome Trust Fellowship).

 As our postdoc community has grown since 2014, we have further developed our processes
 for integrating postdoctoral and ECRs into our research community. All new postdocs are
 mentored by a project PI or Departmental sponsor, who is responsible for conducting their
 probation via regular meetings and for confirming their successful completion of probation
 with the Departmental Administrator. New postdocs receive a comprehensive departmental
 Postdoc Handbook and are invited to an introductory meeting with the Head of Department,
 where they learn about the Department and can discuss activities to which they might like to
 contribute. Postdocs are given the opportunity to undertake small amounts of teaching and
 undergraduate supervision to enhance their academic skills. A Postdoc Representative
 attends key departmental meetings. They are given full support from the Departmental
 Research Grants Administrator who provides relevant information on research schemes and
 assists with their funding applications.

 Career pathways for part-time staff are the same as full-time staff. Similar to full-time staff,
 personal and professional development courses are offered to part-time and fixed-term staff
 for learning skills and advancing their careers. Fixed-term staff are offered redeployment
 support at the end of their fixed-term contracts. A number of fixed-term staff have gone on to


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 secure academic positions in the UK and around the world, including Fazekas at the Central
 European University, Vienna, Merleau-Ponty at the CNRS Paris, Morgan at the University of
 Bristol and Coulter and Page at UCL.

 Alongside departmental support, postdocs and ECRs are encouraged to avail themselves of
 the numerous resources at University level, accessible chiefly through the Postdoc Academy.
 The University is a signatory to the Researcher Development Concordat and the Postdoc
 Academy has convened a working group to ensure implementation during the next year.


 Research leave

 The UoA follows University policies for research sabbaticals, which normally accrues at the
 rate of one term in six. Sabbatical leave is arranged in discussion with the Head of
 Department so as to ensure optimal timing. The leave must be used for research, and details
 of proposed research are required in order to grant the leave. The Faculty Board must
 support the sabbatical request, and a report on the research outcomes is required at the end
 of the leave period. Short study leave, secondments, and unpaid leave for research are
 supported where practicable to allow for focused research projects, activities, and
 collaborations.

 Academic staff have realised significant outcomes from their research leave, generating new
 publications and grant applications: Baert (2017-2018), The Dark Side of Podemos?
 (Routledge); Desai (2018), “A sequential analysis of ethno-nationalism” article and two
 chapters on gender and violence (forthcoming), as well as a large award from the ESRC (£1.8
 million); Moreno Figueroa (2017-18), Against Racism (forthcoming), Kandil (2017-2020, with
 assistance from the Leverhulme Prize), On War in America: An Attempt at Understanding
 (forthcoming); McPherson (2015-2017, with assistance from the ESRC Future Research
 Leaders scheme), seven chapters and three articles on human rights practice in the digital
 age; and Iacovou (2018-2019), the article “Who supports whom,” in Advances in Life Course
 Research.

 Exchanges beyond academia

 Within the UoA, research-active staff have undertaken high-profile exchanges with public and
 third-sector bodies to advance their research, including van de Wiel with the Turing Institute
 to develop a new research project on the datafication of reproduction, which deals with the
 intersection of data technologies and reproductive technologies; and Coutts at the Work &
 Health Unit in the UK Government’s Department for Work and Pensions to investigate how an
 Active Labour Market Programme (ALMP) called Group Work / JOBS II can be used to
 protect the mental health and wellbeing of people who are unemployed, as well as improve
 employability; as well as advising the European Union delegation to Syria on health policy
 and co-founding the Syria Public Health Network.

 Research students

 Our successful expansion in research capacity/staff has been complemented by a growth in
 MPhil and PhD student recruitment. Our MPhil in Sociology programme has recently been
 expanded to four pathways: Political and Economic Sociology; the Sociology of Marginality

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Exclusion; the Sociology of Media and Culture; and the Sociology of Reproduction, with a
 recruitment increase from 25 to 45 students per year. Sociology staff (Franklin, Hogarth,
 Loblova, Pralat, Smietana, van de Wiel, Weinberg) now also teach on the interdisciplinary
 MPhil in Health, Medicine and Society (collaboration with Social Anthropology and History
 and Philosophy of Science). Members of the UoA also contribute to the interdisciplinary
 MPhil in Political Thought and Intellectual History (Baert, collaboration with History) and the
 MPhil in Gender Studies (Franklin). We also recruit around 20 students each year to our PhD
 programme, of whom roughly 40% are continuing from our MPhil in Sociology. The UoA has
 a high number of PhDs awarded per FTE; the total number of PhDs awarded for the whole
 assessment period is 116.

 Our postgraduate programmes are outlined in detail on the University website, with clear
 guidance on the application process. We hold an annual Postgraduate Open Day and the
 website offers the ‘Ask a Student’ feature, which allows prospective applicants to email
 questions about the programme to current students. On entering the programme, PhD
 students are allocated a ‘buddy’ who provides additional support and information. PhD
 applicants are eligible to apply for studentships from the University’s ESRC DTP; 10 of our
 students are currently funded by the DTP. The DTP funds training, fieldwork and conferences
 for its students; in addition, it offers many opportunities to all PhD students across the social
 sciences, including interdisciplinary training, participation in thematic research networks
 across the University, and opportunities for internships in organisations ranging from BT to
 the Home Office. Over the assessment period, our PhD students have also been funded by
 the Gates and Cambridge Trusts, by several smaller funders including individual colleges, by
 the Wellcome Trust, and by funding bodies in students’ own countries.

 At the outset of their course of study, PhD students formulate a bespoke training programme
 with their Supervisors, and report back to them on their training throughout their studies. The
 Department runs fortnightly seminars for first-year PhDs covering topics such as academic
 writing, publishing and networking, and a separate series on career preparation and the job
 market. Training in research methods is provided by the University’s Social Sciences
 Research Methods Programme (SSRMP, directed by Ramsden). The SSRMP provides
 training in a wide range of qualitative and quantitative research methods at all levels from
 introductory to advanced. Training in research skills and careers is provided by the University,
 via the Researcher Development Programme, and many students take advantage of
 language and writing courses provided by the Language Centre.

 Supervisors submit termly reports on each of their students online; these are reviewed each
 term by the Postgraduate Education Committee to identify any problems at an early stage.
 The Student Registry and College Tutors also review these reports to identify any problems at
 an early stage. PhD students are also assessed more formally at two points during their
 studies. Nine months after starting their studies, students submit a progress paper. This is
 examined by two academic staff members who provide detailed feedback and determine
 whether the proposed project is viable and of sufficient quality for the student to progress to
 full PhD registration. At the end of the second year, students submit a dissertation chapter
 with a detailed chapter by chapter outline which is read by two academic staff members, who
 provide detailed feedback, appraisal of student’s needs and progress, and recommendations
 for extra training or support if needed.




                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Most of our PhD students undertake fieldwork; this is financed either by their funding body, or
 by the Department’s fieldwork fund of £50K per year. Departmental and college support is
 also available for other purposes, including presentations at conferences.

 Towards the end of their studies, students receive administrative and academic support in
 making applications for postdoctoral fellowships and employment; they enjoy considerable
 success in these applications. Our students have taken up Junior Research Fellowships
 (Islam, Meghji, Proudman, Stevenson), British Academy Research Fellowships (Zhang,
 Ushiyama), the Fritz Thyssen Stiftung Postdoctoral Fellowship (Yopo Diaz) and academic
 positions at prestigious Universities, including Exeter (Peri-Rotem), LSE (Ahmed), Newcastle
 (Blell), Toronto (Trujilo), Cambridge (Dow, Jent, Pralat, Smietana, van de Wiel), UCL
 (Gaddini, Gurtin and Coulter), Sydney (Williams), Perth (Tchilingirian), Arizona
 (Lamoreaux), the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (Mei), the Universidad Diego
 Portales in Chile (Yopo Diaz) and McGill Law School (Hammond). Other students have gone
 on to work in supranational organisations (e.g. the European Trade Union Institute in
 Brussels, the World Bank, the United Nations); think tanks; NGOs; third-sector organisations;
 the Civil Service; and industry (e.g. AstraZeneca, Polity Press).

 Equality and Diversity

 The UoA is proud of its record of achievement in promoting equality and diversity at all levels.
 8 out of the 9 permanent appointments to the UoA since 2010 are women and/or BAME. In
 addition, 2 out of 4 of the Professors, and 2 out of 4 of the Readers in the Department of
 Sociology are women, making up 50 percent of the UoA's leadership profile. 3 of the past 5
 Heads of the UoA have been female and the current HoD is the first BAME woman ever to
 lead a Cambridge department. In addition, 60 % of senior academic promotions within the
 Department during the assessment period have been awarded to women. Many research-
 active staff in the UoA focus on equality and diversity topics in their research, which further
 strengthens the UoA's expertise, experience, and skill in ensuring equality and diversity are at
 the forefront of all our activities. The Department plays a leading role in the University-wide
 effort to challenge social inequality in all its forms. Moreno Figueroa is University Race
 Equality Co-Champion and co-chaired the University’s successful application for the Race
 Equality Charter (REC). She is also a member of the University’s Legacies of Enslavement
 Enquiry and a leading force in the effort to redress the legacies of institutionalised racism,
 restructure the curriculum and redesign hiring practices.

 The UoA has undertaken an outstanding series of activities to promote equality and diversity,
 and to build scholarly and operational infrastructure to support these activities. The
 Decolonising Sociology committee (chaired by Meghji, Moreno Figueroa and Desai) is
 leading efforts to advance more inclusive approaches to sociological research, from the
 discourses discussed and cited, to the topics and methods used, to the commitments to
 developing public sociology with impact in diverse communities. The UoA is pioneering the
 LBTQ+@Cam initiative (Franklin) to raise the profile of LGBTQ+ issues at Cambridge, and to
 fundraise for a Chair in the Department. Postdocs are also involved with this campaign
 (Pralat), which has a broad reach across the University. Staff members lead the End
 Everyday Racism initiative (McPherson and Moreno Figueroa), a digital platform that builds
 on The Whistle (McPherson) to enable students and staff at Cambridge to report incidents of
 racism within the University. This platform is currently in development to be rolled out to all




                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 universities in the UK Higher Education sector through the UCU and its Black Members
 Standing Committee.

 Staff are active at Departmental and University levels in addressing equality and diversity
 issues, including Desai, who champions race equality with the University’s Race Equality
 Charter (REC), and who is Executive Committee Member and Convenor of the Anti-Racism
 working group within UCU, as well as member of the Equality and Diversity Sub-Committee.
 Page has worked to ensure the issue of staff sexual misconduct is a priority at a University
 and national level. The research is being used in work to develop national guidelines for HE
 on staff sexual misconduct. Duschinsky is ‘Special Advisor for Diversity and Inclusion’ to
 Wellcome and a member of the Governance Group of E&D for the School of Clinical
 Medicine. Staff have worked with colleges to develop a talk series on intersectionality and
 have contributed to the University’s access programmes through Department and college
 open days (Kandil, Burchell, Donker, Weinberg, Meghji and Moreno Figueroa).
 McPherson and the Outreach Coordinator have devised a pathbreaking online outreach
 programme to schools in deprived areas. The UoA also leads an annual summer programme
 in partnership with the Sutton Trust to improve access for underprivileged applicants.

 All researchers are given access to a research fund to provide up to £800 per year for
 conference travel. Researchers with caring responsibilities or ill-health are supported as
 needed: the University offers access to My Family Care to support family care needs, plus a
 Returning Carers’ Scheme to support individuals affected by periods of leave due to caring
 responsibilities. This latter scheme provides specific financial support (up to £20K) for
 attendance at conferences, short-term research support, teaching buy-out, travel and
 accommodation costs for research partners coming to Cambridge, secondments, career
 development, support for assistance in grant writing, and funds for research equipment. For
 example, one Senior Research Associate has recently been awarded a small grant to allow a
 dependant and carer to accompany her to a research workshop abroad. Another faculty
 member received a reduced teaching load on his return from sick leave.

 The Department seeks to create a well-organised and welcoming atmosphere and to ensure
 that everyone’s time at Cambridge is enjoyable. We support the Wellbeing at Sociology
 programme, which has two designated Departmental Wellbeing Advocates, who have both
 undertaken MHFA England training in adult mental health awareness. They provide
 resources and support, including online support. The Department runs weekly lunchtime yoga
 sessions, open to all staff and PhD students.

 The UOA seeks to embed inclusion and diversity within all its processes and no less with the
 compilation of this REF submission. The UOA has adhered to the University Code of Practice,
 closely following its guidance on determining the eligibility of research-independent staff; as
 well as placing equality and diversity at the heart of its published working methods which
 guide the process for compiling the output portfolio.




                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Section 3: Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The UoA encourages interdisciplinary and international collaborations in order to broaden its
 reach. Utilisation of diverse research funding sources is encouraged, including for core research,
 impact acceleration, public engagement, research networks, and industry exchanges.


 Funding strategies

 The UoA has realized significant success in obtaining grant income over the REF period, nearly
 doubling its research income to £13.8 million.

 Success in obtaining grants is shared across a large number of research-active staff, including
 established academics, ECRs, research associates and postdocs. Examples of significant
 research awards include Franklin’s substantial Wellcome Trust funded projects: Fertilization
 through a Looking Glass, which undertakes a sociological study of IVF in the UK in the late
 20th Century (2013-2018, £1 million), and Changing In/Fertilities, a network of 16 research
 partners worldwide that investigates not only how perceptions of fertility and infertility are
 changing, but how these altered perceptions are driving new behavioural norms (2018-2021,
 £1.4 million); Baert’s EC FP7 collaborative project on comparative and international socio-
 historical research perspectives (2013-2017, £240k out of €2.5 million); Desai’s ESRC GCRF
 award on Gendered Violence and Urban Transformation in India and South Africa (2020-
 2023], £1.76 million); King’s ERC Advanced Grant for a study on Privatisation & Mortality in
 Post-Communism (2011-2017, £1.2 million); Hogarth’s ERC Starting Grant for a study on
 screening cancer in the post-genomic era (2017-2021, €1 million); Gabrys’s ERC Consolidator
 Grant (2019, £1.69 million) and Proof of Concept Grant on citizen sensing technologies (2019-
 2020, £132K); McPherson’s ESRC Future Research Leaders award on social media, human
 rights and governmental accountability (2014-2017, £203k), and her EC H2020 award on
 sustainable supply chains (2016-2018, £530k); Moreno Figueroa’s ESRC grant on Latin
 American Antiracism in a ‘Post-Racial’ Age (2017-2019, £828k), and her British Academy grant
 on Institutional Racism and the Contemporary Logics of the State in Mexico (2016-2018, £74k).

 The UoA recognises the need to facilitate a range of research approaches and therefore
 supports a diversity of grant application types and sizes. Postdocs are offered extensive support
 in the design and submission of their own independent research grants. Similarly, PhD students
 are encouraged to pursue funding for their research, and have won prestigious grants from
 foundations such as the Wenner Gren Foundation, the Sociology of Health and Illness
 Foundation, and Wellcome to support conferences, research and fieldwork expenses.


 Organisational infrastructure

 By using our internal income strategically to support research and teaching replacement, we
 have been able to nurture a highly productive, successful and creative research culture.

 Internal Department funds have facilitated fieldwork and travel to Ghana (Burchell), conference
 attendance and publications (Donker, Jent, Kissas, Pralat), as well as many other projects for
 postdocs. College-based funding has supported activities including the Remaking Reproduction
 conference (Dow and Franklin), and conference attendance (Pralat). The UoA benefits from

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 significant internal funding which further helps to build new research networks and contributes to
 our organisational infrastructure, such as support from the School of Humanities and Social
 Sciences for Desai’s project undertaking a Comparative Study of Gendered Violence: India and
 South Africa (2016-2018, £68k)which led to a major successful bid on gender and violence
 submitted to the ESRC. The Centre for Research in the Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities
 (CRASSH) has also supported conferences, research networks and groups on topics ranging
 from the Ethics of Big Data (McPherson) to Decolonising the Curriculum (Desai and Moreno
 Figueroa) to International Black Radicalism (Meghji). We provide funding of up to £200 per
 year for the PhD-led research clusters, and organisers can use the money to pay for guest
 speakers’ travel or refreshments for meetings.


 Infrastructure supporting research and impact

 The UoA benefits from excellent operational and scholarly infrastructure to support research,
 including technical and support staff. Our Research Administrator has been vital in helping
 research-active staff to find and respond to new funding opportunities. In addition, using internal
 funds we have appointed a new full-time Outreach and Communications Officer, who plays a
 crucial role in improving our online research profiles and publicity. With this improved support for
 communications, our website has been completely revised with a new research section which
 brings the defined 3 research areas to the fore. We have set up a Departmental YouTube
 channel that features interviews from our 50th Anniversary, as well as research videos, seminar
 documentation and related events. We have also been able to publicise our activities through
 social media channels, and to the Communications Team in the University.

 The Department’s main building, the Old Cavendish Laboratory on Free School Lane, is
 undergoing renovation which will significantly improve our facilities by modernising offices,
 meeting rooms, and IT infrastructure. It will provide more space in which to house personnel on
 new grants, including postdocs and support staff, with room for up to 25 postdocs. The layout of
 workspaces will be adaptable so that research groups can work together as needed. There will
 be significant space for PhD research students in a self-enclosed space that includes its own
 rest area, kitchen and supervision room. All staff and students will enjoy the same access to
 seminar and meeting rooms. The UoA benefits from the Faculty of Human, Social and Political
 Sciences (HSPS) shared services IT team, who provide full IT support to staff and postdocs,
 including ordering new equipment and troubleshooting IT problems. We also offer PhD students
 and postdocs the use of the Cathie Marsh computer room, which houses a number of PCs that
 have statistical and other software packages available for use. Beyond these Departmental,
 Faculty and School-level resources, the research infrastructure at the University more generally
 is of the highest quality, and provides exceptional central computing services, as well as world-
 class library facilities.

 Members of the UoA at all career levels make key contributions to University-wide initiatives,
 with researchers leading and participating in Strategic Research Initiatives in Trust and
 Technology (McPherson), Reproduction (Franklin), and Cambridge Global Challenges (Desai);
 as well as University-based centres, networks and groups, including, for instance, the Centre for
 Science and Policy (Gabrys), the Centre for Research in the Arts, Social Sciences and
 Humanities (Hamati-Ataya), the Centre for Digital Humanities (McPherson), the Centre of
 Governance and Human Rights (McPherson), the Cambridge Centre for Gender Studies
 (Franklin), and the Cambridge Institute of Public Health (King) and the Centre of Latin
 American Studies (Moreno Figueroa). Many of these initiatives span the sciences, technology,

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 arts and humanities, as well as social sciences, and bring together researchers from multiple
 Schools. Sociology at Cambridge is a major contributor to these high-impact and cutting-edge
 interdisciplinary networks within the University.

 Significance of benefits in-kind

 Major benefits in-kind have supported research and impact in the UoA, including cooperation
 from the Police Dependants Trust (Burchell, value of approximately £50K, which has led to the
 development of an impact case study); and financial support from the Wikirate Foundation to
 support the development of The Whistle reporting app and platform (McPherson, value of
 approximately £25K).




                                                                                         Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaborations

 The staff is engaged in high-profile national and international collaborations. In the Science and
 Technology theme, we host, for instance: Franklin’s Changing In/Fertilities network funded by
 Wellcome, which involves collaborations with 16 scholars worldwide across social sciences and
 biosciences, as well as research projects on China ReproTech (connecting 25 academics
 internationally); the British-Academy funded IVF Histories (linking 250 academics globally)
 (Dow, Jent, Medien, Pralat); and Weinberg’s participation in the multinational Addiction Theory
 Network. In the Politics and Inequalities theme there are, for example: Burchell’s research on
 the Future of Work across Cambridge and Salford, as well as his contribution to the STYLE
 network (including 50 researchers from the EU) and the ESRC DIGITal work research centre;
 Hogarth’s pioneering ERC Starting Grant that works with collaborators at the University of
 Sussex, King’s College London, the University of Edinburgh and the University of Toronto
 (producing workshops, publications and policy reports); Meghji’s extensive collaborations with
 researchers in the UK and US on race and ethnicity; Miley’s collaborations with researchers and
 politicians in Spain and Turkey to investigate questions of citizenship and politics in changing
 political regimes; and Moreno Figueroa’s collaborations with researchers in the UK and
 throughout Latin America on issues of race, racism and anti-racism including the University of
 Manchester, the Centre de Investigación y Estudios Superiores en AntropologíaSocial
 (CIESAS), in México, the Universidad Nacional de Colombia, the Facultad Latinoamericana de
 Ciencias Sociales (FLACSO) in Ecuador, the Universidad de Sao Paulo and the Brazilian Centre
 for Analysis and Planning (CEBRAP) in Brazil. Moreno Figueroa is now acting as International
 Advisor for the research project Cultures of Anti-Racism in Latin America (CARLA) led by
 Professor Peter Wade at the University of Manchester, which investigates the contemporary
 cultural products and producers focusing on issues of racial difference, racism and anti-racism in
 Brazil, Colombia and Argentina. Within the Theory and Culture theme, there is, for instance,
 Baert’s major EU Collaborative Project Programme INTERCO which involved collaboration
 between more than 20 researchers across at least six countries; and Duschinsky’s 2017
 consensus statement on disorganised attachment with 40 international co-authors and his 2020
 consensus statement on attachment and court practice with 60 international co-authors.

 Engaging with research recipients

 As part of the UoA’s commitment to public sociology, staff engage with key research users,
 beneficiaries and audiences, giving rise to new research connections and communicating work
 more broadly. These interactions span engagements with publics, NGOs, governments,
 industry, and the cultural sector. Examples of the rich array of research in this area include
 McPherson’s The Whistle, which has developed 4 civilian witness-reporting platforms in
 partnership with Global Rights Nigeria, End Everyday Racism at Cambridge (with Moreno
 Figueroa), Humans for Rights, and Supply Chain Organising Coalition. This work has
 contributed to expert meetings at the UN High Commission of Human Rights and several NGO
 groups, and has informed evidence given to Parliament. Hogarth has engaged in discussions
 with MEPs, European Commission and the UK Department of Health during development of the
 new EU regulation for in vitro diagnostic devices to improve the regulation of diagnostic tests,
 and he contributes to the UK National Screening Committee regarding medical screening policy.
 Kandil has advised the UK government in considering global best practices for implementing its

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 policy on biosecurity, and he has advised the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office on issues
 related to Islamist movements and the Egyptian government. Page has worked with Universities
 UK and established a partnership with the National Union of Students on the issue of staff
 sexual misconduct in higher education: these two sector bodies have used research to inform
 national campaigns, advance survey work, and develop policy guidance. Through her work
 engaging research recipients, Page serves as an advisory board member to Universities UK on
 staff-student sexual misconduct, and to the House of Lords and House of Commons to advise
 on the first ever disciplinary procedures for sexual harassment for Parliament, and she has
 worked with The Guardian and the BBC to brief journalists on investigations into staff sexual
 misconduct. Burchell is working with CIPD to inform the Treasury’s response to labour market
 changes in the Pandemic. Moreno Figueroa co-founded an organisation, Collective for the
 Elimination of Racism in Mexico, from where she engages in training and consultancy for
 organisations wanting to develop an anti-racist agenda, work includes engaging with activists,
 human-rights advocates and government officials. Finally, Duschinsky’s Living Assessments
 Wellcome Collaborative Award and his Wellcome Diversity & Inclusion Award involve three
 expert-by-experience groups (parents whose children have undergone social work
 investigations; care leavers; and disabled children who receive social services support) who
 have been involved in project design, grant interview and data analysis and who will be co-
 authors on all publications stemming from the project.

 Members of the unit are engaged in research that extends to wider publics. Dow is undertaking
 a research project on Reproducing (Bio) Diversity that works with seed-savers in the UK to
 investigate seed-saving practices, and to connect up with seed-saving organisations, including
 the London Freedom Seed Bank and the Women's Environmental Network, which seeks to
 reinstate the seed library at the Tower Hamlets Food Growing Network. Jent and Franklin have
 widely circulated their Dish Life film, and as a further development of this project are now
 creating a Dish Life digital mobile game app aimed at secondary school and undergraduate
 students as an educational resource about the relationship of scientific and societal change, in
 collaboration with the game design company Pocket Sized Hands and Cambridge Stem Cell
 Institute. As part of his MAIL study, Pralat has organised research events with approximately 40
 stakeholders, including clinicians, patient organisations and researchers, to explore and
 communicate findings from his research on HIV and reproduction. Smietana has undertaken
 extensive outreach with affected user groups on the issues of surrogacy, and has contributed to
 multiple fertility shows and festivals to communicate his research to wider publics.

 Wider impact

 The UoA has realised an exceptional range and quality of wider impact activities that contribute
 to the economy and society, including Williams communicating her research to the Chief
 Economist of the World Bank on digital technologies of impact assessment, and distributing
 research findings to the World Bank Business Intelligence Team, as well as teams across the
 World Bank, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, and the World
 Health Organisation to deliver recommendations around the use of digital methods of
 assessment. This work is leading to an ongoing collaboration to inform the World Bank’s use of
 impact assessment methods that will provide a foundation for improvement of online platforms.
 Meghji has advised the Runnymede Trust on race and class inequalities as part of their 2017
 Race Scholars' roundtable. Burchell has advised BIS and the Labour Party on zero-hour
 contracts, and is currently working with police forces on trauma and post-traumatic stress
 disorder. McPherson leads Cambridge’s Digital Verification Corps, a student group developed

                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in relation to her research, which supports Amnesty International in the discovery and verification
 of digital human rights evidence. Kandil has launched the Biosecurity Research Initiative at St
 Catharine’s (BioRISC), a Cambridge-based research group devoted to identifying and advising
 governments on confronting biosecurity threats. Dow has served as an expert adviser to the
 Science Museum for their exhibition, IVF: Six Million Babies Later. Miley has presented his
 research findings on the Kurdish question on multiple occasions in both the UK and EU
 Parliaments, and he serves as a member of the Executive Board of EU Turkey Civic
 Commission (EUTCC), and of the International Imrali Delegation (Headed by Judge Essa
 Moossa). Moreno Figueroa worked with an extensive network of activists, NGOs and
 governmental institutions in Mexico to produce a national communication campaign
 (AfroCensoMX) about the inclusion of a new Black self-identification question in the 2020
 National Census.


 Sustainability and wider influence

 The UoA contributes to the sustainability of sociology not only through its leading research in
 new areas (e.g. reproductive sociology) , its extensive networks and funded research projects,
 but also through its highly accomplished postdocs and PhD students, who go on to contribute to
 social research and practice worldwide.

 Staff in the UoA are consistent champions for the discipline of sociology by making vital
 contributions to core research, and by communicating the relevance of sociology beyond the
 academy. Members of the UoA are engaged in responding to national and international
 initiatives, including through evidence given at the UK Parliament Commons Science and
 Technology Committee for the Social Media Data and Real Time Analytics Inquiry (McPherson);
 contributing to the expert group meeting to prepare the ‘Arab Development Outlook: Vision 2025’
 organised by the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia (Kandil);
 contributing to the development of clinical guidelines and leading work to produce international
 consensus statements on clinical and welfare practice with young children (Duschinsky);
 contributing to the Transnational Surrogacy Networks initiative (Smietana); and addressing the
 UK’s national priority to address sexual harassment, hate violence and violence against women
 through the Universities UK and HEFCE Catalyst Fund initiatives (Page). Responses to Page’s
 work have included task-force submissions to the House of Commons Women and Equalities
 Committee inquiry into non-disclosure agreements, as well as the development of investigation
 and disciplinary procedures guidelines for the higher education sector based on research
 findings, which was developed in collaboration with law firm McAllister Olivarius.

 UoA staff hold positions at editorial boards of a wide range of journals in sociology and aligned
 fields, including the International Journal of Politics, Culture and Society (Baert, Editor-in-Chief
 and Ushiyama, Review Editor), European Journal of Social Theory (Baert), The Journal of
 Classical Sociology (Baert), Distinktion (Baert), Current Sociology (Baert), Cambridge Journal
 of Economics (Burchell, Editor), British Journal of Sociology (Desai), the American Journal of
 Sociology (Desai), Reproductive BioMedicine and Society Online (Dow, Reviews Editor), Global
 Health/Global Change Series (Dow), British Medical Journal Medical Humanities (Duschinsky,
 Associate Editor), Journal of Gender Studies (Duschinsky), Reproductive Biomedicine Online
 (Franklin, Editor-in-Chief), Science as Culture (Franklin), Cultural Anthropology (Franklin),
 Body and Society (Franklin), Feminist Theory (Franklin), Distinktion (Franklin), Catalyst
 (Franklin), Big Data & Society (Gabrys, Editorial Team), Journal of Cancer Policy (Hogarth),
 Cambridge University Press: Intelligence and National Security in Africa and the Middle East

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Kandil), Cultural Sociology (McPherson), New Genetics and Society (Merleau-Ponty, guest
 editor), Racial and Ethnic Studies (Moreno Figueroa), Journal of Latin American Studies
 (Moreno Figueroa), Reproductive Biomedicine & Society Online (Pralat), Qualitative Research
 (Weinberg), Social Theory & Health (Weinberg), International Journal of Drug Policy
 (Weinberg), Sociology Compass (Weinberg), Addiction Research & Theory (Weinberg), and
 Addicta (Weinberg). Thompson is one of the chief editors of Polity Press.

 Staff have organised more than 50 conferences during the assessment period, a large number
 given the size of the UoA. They are also highly active in contributing to media and multimedia
 communication and dissemination of work. These venues include contributions to the The
 Guardian (Desai, Burchell and Coutts), Telegraph, FT, Times, Mail and Sun (Burchell and
 Coutts) Huffington Post (Desai, Meghji), BBC Newsnight (Hogarth), BBC radio 3 Free Thinking
 (Baert), Channel 4 News (Hogarth), the BBC Politics Show (Hogarth), Sky News (Hogarth),
 The Guardian’s Science Blog (Hogarth), Radio 4, BBC News, ITV News, and Channel 4
 Dispatches (Burchell and Miller).

 A selection of academic awards and prizes received includes the Philip Leverhulme Prize for
 Sociology and Social Policy (Kandil), the 4S Mentorship Award (Franklin), the EASST Ziman
 Award for public engagement with science and technology (Gabrys), the ASA Melvin Pollner
 Prize (Weinberg), the Louis Dumont Prize (Merleau-Ponty), the Sociological Review Trust
 (Medien), the Latin American Studies Association Bryce Wood Book Award (Moreno
 Figueroa),the British HIV Association Research Award (Pralat), the Chilean National Council of
 Culture and Arts (Saavedra Utman), and 14 appearances and awards for the Dish Life film
 (Jent) received at film festivals including the Best Science Documentary Social Machinery
 Festival and the Global Short Film Awards Cannes. Examples of prestigious residential
 fellowships at national and international research centres include the EHESS in Paris (Donker),
 Sciences Po (Baert), Duke University (Medien, through the ESRC Overseas Institutional Visiting
 Scholarship), the International Research Institute for Cultural Techniques and Media Philosophy
 (IKKM) in Weimar, Germany (Gabrys), the Harvard Weatherhead Centre (Meghji); the
 Department of International Development, London School of Economics (Williams); the Policy
 Institute, King’s College London (Wiliams); and the Institute of Advanced Study, University of
 Warwick (Medien). Staff hold fellowships with the Royal Society of the Arts (Baert, Gabrys), the
 Academy of Social Sciences (Franklin), the Royal Society of Biology (Franklin), and the Higher
 Education Academy (Duschinsky, McPherson).

 Staff contribute widely to memberships of research councils, expert committees, and grant
 panels, including the ERC Starting Grant panel (Burchell), Eurofound (Burchell), ESRC
 Productivity Advisory Group (Burchell) H2020 Science with and for Society (Gabrys), Anne
 McLaren Fund (Franklin), Edwards and Steptoe Trust (Franklin), the Research Council of
 Norway (Baert), National Research Fund Brussels (Baert), and the Fundação para a Ciência e
 a Tecnologia in Portugal (Baert), the Wellcome Trust Medical Humanities Expert Review Group
 (Duschinsky), the ICA Pre-doctoral Clinical Academic Fellowship Selection Committee
 (Duschinsky), the NIHR Research for Patient Benefit Selection Committee (Duschinsky). Staff
 also hold positions of responsibility in professional organisations, including the International
 Sociological Association, Sociological Theory (RC16) (Baert, co-chair 2014-2018), Social
 Science History Association (Desai, Chair 2020-21) and the Ethnicity, Race and Indigenous
 Peoples Section of the Latin American Studies Association (Moreno Figueroa, chair 2014-
 2016). Staff undertake extensive reviewing for research funding applications, including for the
 ESRC, the EPSRC, UKRI, the Wellcome Trust, the British Academy, the ERC, the European
 Science Foundation, the NWO Dutch Research Council Vidi Grant Programme, Riksbankens

                                                                                          Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Jubileumsfond, the Swiss National Science Foundation, Wenner Gren Foundation, NIH, NSF,
 Trudeau Foundation, Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada, the
 Marsden Fund, and for national research councils in Portugal, Norway, Denmark, Sweden,
 Finland and Belgium.

 Members of the UoA review extensively for core sociological journals, as well as for specialist
 journals within distinct areas of expertise. Research-active staff regularly review journal articles
 for more than 70 high-profile academic journals, from the American Sociological Review,
 American Journal of Sociology, British Journal of Sociology to Sociological Review and many
 specialist journals on public health, genetics, peace, race, LGBTQ+ studies, Latin American
 studies and science and technology studies. Members of the UoA undertake extensive reviewing
 of book manuscripts for university presses (e.g. Stanford, Duke, Temple, Harvard and Oxford)
 and other academic publishers (e.g. Palgrave, Verso, Hurst, Sage).




                                                                                             Page 20
