Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Queen’s University Belfast


 Unit of Assessment: 15


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 a. Synopsis
 The long-standing integration of Archaeology with Palaeoecology (hereafter ArcPal) at QUB
 encapsulates the unit’s inherently interdisciplinary focus. Understanding past human-
 environment dynamics, along with world-leading initiatives in the development of dating
 techniques, remain prominent strengths in our wide-reaching research that investigates our past
 across broad temporal and spatial scales (Fig. 1). Equally, we incorporate a unique, rigorous
 and complementary toolset of methodologies – bioarchaeology, material science, textual
 evidence, geospatial and temporal analyses as well as buildings, funerary, landscape,
 environmental and theoretical archaeology – that positions us at the cutting edge of
 archaeological research and innovation. The diverse research interests and extensive networks
 of ArcPal staff (11.7 FTE) enable us to make significant contributions to contemporary
 debates on themes including sustainable heritage policies and management, identity and
 conflict management, migration, human-landscape interaction and the culture/nature divide,
 present and past climate impacts, and biodiversity conservation. Our achievements are
 exemplified by our publication record (20 books/monographs/edited volumes, 96 chapters, and
 >220 peer-reviewed journal articles in the REF2021 period), research income (£6.8M), growing
 PGR (40 graduated and current) and PDRA (18 during REF2021 period) communities, and the
 breadth of nationally and internationally recognised roles and accolades of individual staff, such
 as Reimer’s election to the Royal Irish Academy. Engaged research is at the heart of all our
 work, and we collaborate extensively with academic, public and private bodies and communities
 on local to global scales. Our mission is to push the boundaries in interpretation of the human
 and environmental past, combining the humanities and sciences to promote knowledge, cultural
 value and engagement with global challenges.




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 b. Organisational structure, size and context
 In REF2014, ArcPal was submitted with Geography as a single unit under UoA17. Since 2016,
 we joined the new School of Natural and Built Environment (SNBE), integrated with Architecture,
 Civil Engineering, Geography and Planning. SNBE is one of the largest in QUB (~100
 academics), encompassing a diverse array of researchers with many potential synergies,
 facilitated by three interdisciplinary Research Clusters (RCs), two of which embrace ArcPal
 research interests (Fig. 2). The new School structure encourages the development of innovative
 collaborations between ArcPal staff and other disciplines, evidenced by our cross-disciplinary
 PGR supervisory panels (Section 2d).




 Presently, ArcPal comprises ten academic (8.7 FTE) and two academic-related (2 FTE) staff,
 eight PDRAs (including one independent researcher: 1 FTE), three emeritus professors (Baillie,
 Mallory, Pilcher) and 14 PGRs. We are supported by two centrally-funded technicians and a
 fixed-term Lecturer in Education (Le Roy, 2019–2021). With inclusion of three independent
 researchers in this submission (two in REF2014), the number of staff returned for ArcPal (13)
 remains the same as in REF2014, but our FTE is slightly lower (by 1.3 FTE) due to two
 transitions to part-time status. The unit hosts two research centres – 14CHRONO Centre for
 Climate, the Environment and Chronology (14CHRONO) and the Centre for Community
 Archaeology (CCA) – that support teaching, research and community projects (Section 3b), and
 Megarry is Associate Director of Geography’s Centre for GIS and Geomatics. ArcPal members
 are active within QUB’s Senator George Mitchell Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice,
 the Heritage Hub and the Centre for Sustainability, Equality and Climate Action, and most staff
 affiliate with the Institute of Irish Studies.
 The RCs aim to create a culture of research excellence through active promotion of
 collaboration, impact, engaged research, public outreach, support and mentoring of ECRs, and
 alignment of School and disciplinary research with the institutional research strategy. They offer
 seed funding and financial support towards, for example, conference attendance, international
 networking, hosting of public events and analytical costs.
    The Culture and Society RC (C&S) comprises staff from ArcPal, Architecture, Geography
     and Planning who share interests in exploring past and present relationships between
     peoples, cultures and societies at various spatial and temporal scales. Of relevance to the
     global challenges and academic discourses addressed by C&S is ArcPal’s collaborative and
     impactful research on climate change, sustainability and cultural heritage, specifically
     archaeological heritage (reflected by Malone, Rabett and Megarry’s Impact Case Study
     (ICS)); understanding societal change, past migrations and their impacts (see publications of
     Brandherm, Donnelly, Gleeson, Malone, Murphy, and projects such as ERC-funded
     FRAGSUS and AHRC-funded Sea of Moyle); bioarchaeological approaches to past
     populations (in Murphy’s publications and Ranelagh project); and the social benefits of

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       community archaeology (reflected in publications by Donnelly, Horning, Murphy). C&S
       facilitated the development of an interdisciplinary project between Megarry and colleagues in
       Geography, Architecture and Anthropology, helping secure funding for the “Adaptation,
       Cultural Heritage and Ongoing Resilience for Sustainable Livelihood” (ANCHOR) Project. It
       has also provided seed funding for various projects, including fieldwork grants to investigate
       Neolithic Shetland (Megarry), an Anglo-Saxon Royal Palace at Milfield overlain by World War
       I field remains (Gleeson), and new research on the Ulster Museum’s Egyptian mummy
       Takabuti (Murphy).
      The Environmental Change and Resilience RC (EC&R) includes staff from ArcPal,
       Geography and Civil Engineering with common goals of understanding and tackling the
       impacts of environmental change through, for example, geospatial analysis and spatial-
       temporal modelling. Within this group, ArcPal staff lead and contribute to subgroups on
       Landscape & Climate Change Resilience, and Peatlands, Hydrogeology & Wetlands. ArcPal
       staff bring to these themes a long-term view of past environmental changes and their impact
       on ecosystems and societies, including chronology construction (evidenced by publications
       by Blaauw, Brown, Plunkett, Reimer, and the ICS by Reimer and Blaauw); causes and
       impacts of past environmental change (including publications by Blaauw, Plunkett, Rabett,
       Reimer); and human-environment interactions (considered in outputs by Murphy, Plunkett,
       Rabett, formerly Basell, McCormick, and through projects such as SUNDASIA and
       FRAGSUS). EC&R played an instrumental role in the 2019 establishment of the £5M NERC-
       funded QUADRAT (co-led by Blaauw) doctoral training programme (DTP), which trains next-
       generation scientists to be leaders in academic, industry and policy development through
       interdisciplinary and engaged research in collaboration with University of Aberdeen (UAber),
       QUB’s Biological Sciences and a network of non-academic partners.


 c. Research and impact strategy
 Our strategic research agenda has developed over the REF2021 period, reflecting School
 restructuring in 2016, staff changes, and opportunities to pursue productive new research
 directions. Our new strategy is informed by key research questions and debates in, and
 between, SNBE disciplines and RCs, QUB’s strategic themes and investment, and UKRI
 strategies and priorities. The strategic aims outlined in ArcPal-Geography’s REF2014
 submission are presented in Table 1 with examples of how we realised those aims. Impact is a
 consistent feature of our research, exemplified by the array of projects encompassed within our
 two ICSs. Our achievements speak to institutional priorities through the REF2021 period
 (research ambition, tackling of global challenges, and creation of a vibrant PGR and PDRA
 community), while embracing the cross-cutting themes of internationalisation, impact and
 environment (Institutional Environment Statement (IES), Section 2b).
 Table 1. ArcPal delivery on REF2014 strategic aims
     REF2014 strategic    Highlights of ArcPal achievements in REF2021 period
     aims
     Lead and                Through their ERC-funded (£1.2M to QUB) FRAGSUS and
     contribute               AHRC/industry-funded (£933k to QUB) SUNDASIA projects, Malone
     measurably to            and Rabett have respectively tackled questions of past societal
     global scientific        adaptation to environmental change. Two (of three) monographs
     [and critical human      detailing the FRAGSUS findings have been published, and the
     geography] enquiry       ongoing SUNDASIA project has so far resulted in five peer-reviewed
                              outputs.
                             Murphy’s and Svyatko’s interdisciplinary research on Irish and
                              Russian human remains have contributed to discourses on past
                              diet, health and migration (e.g., Murphy’s papers in Nature, PNAS;
                              Svyatko’s article in J. Archaeo. Sci. Rep.). Murphy’s analyses of
                              large Medieval cemetery assemblages (including Irish Government-
                              funded (£432k) Ranelagh project) shed new light on life among

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                           Ireland’s lower non-elites, and have so far resulted in two
                           monographs. Svyatko’s Leverhulme-funded (£210k) investigation of
                           prehistoric populations examines the emergence of nomadism in the
                           Altai Steppes.
                          Blaauw, Brown, Plunkett, Rabett and Reimer have produced >30
                           high-profile publications on past climate change, its causes and
                           its environmental and societal impacts on regional to global
                           scales (e.g., Nature, Nature Ecol. Evol., Nature Sci. Rep., Geology).
                           The NERC-funded (£80k to QUB) Reimagination project (Reimer,
                           Blaauw) considered the extent of past North Atlantic overturning, an
                           important component of the Earth's climate system. The
                           Leverhulme-funded (£65k to QUB) Limfjord project investigated
                           environmental change and subsistence strategies in Denmark over
                           the past 4,000 years (Reimer – Nature Commun.).
  Influence               Horning’s treatise (Archaeologies and others) on archaeology,
  contemporary             identity and conflict in Northern Ireland sets out the difficulties
  debates (from            surrounding the position of archaeology in community projects, and
  climate change to        illustrates how archaeological discourse can be purposefully applied
  conflict resolution,     to reconciliation and peace-building in divided societies.
  the management of       Gleeson’s award-winning Medieval Archaeology paper challenges
  memory, the              an existing paradigm that attempts to find historical bases for myth in
  geographies of           the archaeological record, and calls for greater recognition of
  science,                 underlying socio-political agendas within early literary sources.
  geopolitics,            Plunkett’s tephra research has contributed to the refinement of
  globalisation,           Greenland ice-core chronologies, enabling precise chronological
  population               linkages between volcanic events, tree-ring data and historical
  dynamics and             events, and questioning conventional thinking on volcanic
  public policy)           forcing of climate and its impacts (e.g., Nature, PNAS).
  Develop, employ         Megarry has developed and refined predictive site modelling using
  and disseminate          machine learning and automated characterisation of multispectral
  new techniques of        satellite imagery as applied to remote identification of archaeological
  data analysis            sites in marginal landscapes and over wide areas (e.g., Drones).
                          Staff have published >60 outputs and open-source software
                           demonstrating an extensive contribution to advances in chronology
                           construction, analysis, modelling, refinement and
                           interpretation, e.g., Reimer’s international radiocarbon calibration
                           curves (Radiocarbon); Blaauw’s innovative Bayesian approach to
                           210Pb age-modelling (J. Agric. Biol. Environ. Stat.); PDRA Barrett
                           and Donnelly’s development of a new technique for dating mortar (J.
                           Archaeol. Sci. Rep.).
                          Meta-analyses of archaeological, palaeoenvironmental and
                           tephra data have challenged paradigms of environmental
                           explanations of cultural change (Blaauw, Plunkett – Geology),
                           provided a geochronologically-modelled Neotropical pollen database
                           (Blaauw – Clim. Past), and enabled the first evaluation of tephra
                           source regions impacting NW Europe (Plunkett – Earth Sci. Rev.)
  Inform and              Megarry has developed the Google Arts and Culture-funded
  influence heritage       Heritage on the Edge online resource with ICOMOS, highlighting
  management               the urgency about climate change through the lens of five iconic
  practices and            world heritage sites.
  public engagement       Malone, Rabett and Megarry’s work on 10 World Heritage and other
  with the past            protected sites have shaped best practice regarding the
                           management and presentation of cultural and natural heritage,
                           including public engagement with the past (see their ICS).
                          Donnelly, Horning, Malone, Megarry, Murphy, Rabett have
                           developed public partnerships and projects on local to global
                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                            scales, e.g., the CCA’s six Landscape Partnerships (£685k)
                            entailing 20 community excavations; Horning’s work with the
                            Corrymeela Community, including the 2018 Winter School in
                            Heritage and Reconciliation.
  Develop                  Rabett, supported by a UKRI-GCRF Global Impact Acceleration
  collaborative             Award (£11.9k), has co-led the trial reintroduction initiative of a
  international             critically endangered primate species into Tràng An working in
  research agendas          collaboration with local Vietnamese authorities, industry and NGOs.
                           Gleeson has contributed to international discourse on the role of
                            assembly places in the Atlantic fringe, presenting a new
                            chronological framework for the role and development of the Óenaig
                            in Ireland (e.g., J. North Atlantic).
                           As president of the International Union of Prehistoric and
                            Protohistoric Sciences Commission 'Metal Ages in Europe',
                            Brandherm coordinates the development of collaborative research
                            agendas in European Bronze Age and Iron Age archaeology, e.g.,
                            concerning networks of knowledge transfer in the Early Iron Age
                            Mediterranean.
  Inspire & facilitate     We have recruited three academic ECRs (Rabett, Megarry,
  new researchers           Gleeson), all now promoted to senior grades (Section 2c).
  through a proactive      We have newly employed 15 PDRAs through 14CHRONO (2), the
  strategy of               Crannogs (1), FRAGSUS (5) and SUNDASIA (3) projects, or as
  attracting and            independent researchers (4; Section 2d).
  supporting high-         Through UKRI-funded DTPs and NI-Department for the Economy
  quality PGRs and          (DfE) collaborative partnerships, we have recruited 16 PGRs,
  embedding ECRs            including interdisciplinary collaborations (entailing joint supervision)
  into our grant-           with Architecture, Planning, Geography, Politics, Mechanical and
  funded projects           Aerospace Engineering (Section 2e).


 Considering staff changes, new interdisciplinary opportunities and the growing urgency of global
 challenges, we have honed our research strategy and developed a plan for the next 5–10 years.
 Building upon the expertise and diversity of infrastructural facilities at QUB, our long-term goal is
 to enhance and expand our strengths and expertise in scientific, community and digital
 archaeology, isotopic research for archaeology (migration, diet, etc.), and palaeoenvironment
 and chronological research. We identify five key aims that encapsulate the unit’s strategic
 research plan, underpinned by key UKRI and institutional research priority themes (Fig. 3).
 1) Extend capacity to engage in world-leading interdisciplinary research to address global
    challenges, such as identity and conflict, migration, heritage conservation, environmental
    degradation and climate change through innovative collaborations across the School and
    wider University, with our national and international academic and non-academic partners,
    and by expanding our PGR and PDRA community
 2) Develop further our digital capabilities to ensure we remain at the forefront of applications
    in geospatial technologies, chronology-building, virtual reality and digital methods of
    presenting past peoples, objects and landscapes, and in their utility to heritage management
    and communication
 3) Strengthen and grow the CCA and 14CHRONO as hubs for high-impact research that
    engage stakeholders and beneficiaries at local, national and international levels
 4) Consolidate and expand our existing reputation for engaged research through Community
    Archaeology and partnerships by applying for major funding in areas such as identity, well-
    being, shared education, peace-building and sustainable heritage, including through
    collaborative studentships with partners outside academia
 5) Utilise the considerable skillsets of staff within ArcPal and the wider School to promote
    heritage as a driver for sustainability and resilience globally, though capacity training
    and knowledge exchange, especially in the Global South and in line with UN sustainability
    goals

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 d. Interdisciplinary Research
 The long-standing interdisciplinarity of our research, reflected by the integration of
 palaeoecological methodologies to address archaeological questions (e.g., FRAGSUS,
 SUNDASIA, Sea of Moyle), and cultural contextualisation of climate/environmental impacts (e.g.,
 volcanic impacts, marine resource abundance) through archaeological and historical enquiry
 (e.g., Reimer’s, Plunkett’s outputs). For instance, the combination of archaeological investigation
 and integrated palaeoenvironmental analyses in FRAGSUS was critical for determining how
 Malta’s Neolithic inhabitants adapted to climate change and soil erosion. SNBE’s new structures
 have broadened our interdisciplinary research culture, specifically through the RCs. Examples of
 fruitful partnerships include Megarry’s ANCHOR Project (Section 1b); the formulation of five
 cross-discipline PGR projects; Gleeson’s establishment of a cross-Faculty research Medieval
 Cultures seminar series; and the cross-Faculty Heritage Hub (C&S). We benefit from wider
 University structures for interdisciplinary research (IES Section 2c), including links to the Global
 Research Institutes (Section 1b).
 Our interdisciplinary research networks within and beyond QUB allows us to tackle pressing
 societal challenges. Malone, Rabett and Megarry’s ICS illustrates our contributions to
 conservation and integrating heritage into policy-backed climate action. Murphy’s work examines
 historical links between health, diet and environment, including the use of aDNA to understand
 better the history of communicable diseases, while the CCA’s ongoing community projects
 address issues of well-being and identity. Horning’s work illustrates the importance of empirical-
 based use of the archaeological record as a tool in conflict resolution. Blaauw, Plunkett and
 Reimer work with researchers in archaeology, history, earth and atmospheric sciences, and
 statistics to establish drivers and impacts of past environmental changes, including implications
 for past societies (e.g., Blaauw’s DeepCHALLA-UK project, Plunkett’s PNAS papers critically
 examining volcanic impacts on contemporary societies in Europe and Central America, Reimer’s
 Leverhulme project on climatic controls on human adaptation in Denmark). Effective
 collaboration has been further facilitated by interdisciplinary DTPs (Northern Bridge, QUADRAT).


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 e. Open Research
 We strive to ensure our research reaches as wide an audience as possible. We make available
 large datasets through publication (e.g., Plunkett’s tephra results as supplementary data), open
 repositories (e.g., European Pollen Database, International Tree Ring Database) and open-
 source media (e.g., age-modelling software Plum, Bacon, Clam, CALIB, IntCal). We make full
 use of wider university arrangements for open research, including the QUB data repository. All
 Centre for Archaeological Fieldwork (CAF)/CCA fieldwork reports are available to download from
 the CCA website. The SUNDASIA project publishes annual reports locally (the last two in
 Vietnam Archaeology) to support in-house journals and local access. Reflecting our strong
 commitment towards open access (OA), 80% (n=176) of our journal articles and conference
 papers during the REF2021 period were available via OA display; since the HEFCE Policy on
 OA was introduced (April 2016), that proportion increased to 89%.


 f. Research integrity and ethics
 Our approach to research governance, integrity and ethics has been extensively restructured
 over the REF2021 period. Building on the UK Concordat for Research Integrity we have
 developed a culture that nurtures an understanding of ethical implications of research, which
 have involved specific training programmes on Ethics, GDPR, IP and Diversity for postgraduate
 researchers and staff. QUB has established a Research Governance and Integrity Committee,
 with School-level representation, that ensures a more integrated approach between ethics,
 standards of conduct, support for doctoral students and ECRs and stronger mechanisms for
 complaints and redress. The Faculty Research Ethics Committee is represented by an individual
 from the School. Our ethical conduct is increasingly informed by the challenges and benefits of
 more inclusive engaged archaeology, in line with changing global practice that emphasises the
 rights of descendant populations. All staff and PGRs working with human remains adhere to the
 guidelines of the British Association of Biological Anthropology and Osteoarchaeology Codes of
 Ethics and Practice (2019).
 2. People
 a. Summary overview of approach
 ArcPal comprises a small but cohesive research group underpinned by a strong sense of
 connectivity and collegiality between academics, ECRs, PGRs and support staff. Retirements
 and staff turnover since 2014 provided opportunities to make strategic appointments to develop
 our strengths in line with our research priorities, most notably in terms of augmenting our
 contributions to heritage management and geospatial enquiries. Equally, we have recruited
 PDRAs (n=2) and technical support (n=1) to consolidate and expand the reach and impact of our
 two hosted centres, and have provided career and professional development opportunities for
 PDRAs through recruitment to collaborative and independent research projects. We have
 maintained a strong PGR base through diverse studentship opportunities. Within the broader
 context of the collaborative and interdisciplinary School structure, these changes leave us well-
 placed to deliver on our research strategy.


 b. Staffing profile and recruitment
 ArcPal staffing has changed since REF2014 due to one staff member retiring and three taking
 positions in other institutions. Two staff have moved to part-time status (reflecting flexi-retirement
 and an appointment at a US institution). Our FTE includes three independent researchers
 (Brown, Donnelly, Svyatko) in line with REF2021 policy on including all staff with significant
 research responsibility. The rapid career progression of our academics (Section 2c) gives us a
 robust framework of mid-career and established researchers, complemented by two permanent
 academic-related staff (Brown, Donnelly) and a total of 18 PDRAs on fixed-term contracts or
 fellowships during the REF2021 period. The CCA employs five field archaeologists on fixed-term
 contracts, and the unit’s research-driven ethos is reflected by members undertaking doctoral
 studies within ArcPal: in the REF2021 period, one completed a part-time PhD, while two have

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 transitioned to our full-time PGR programme having obtained competitive funding. 14CHRONO
 employs two PDRAs, a research assistant and five technicians. Staff and PGRs are supported
 by a part-time illustrator.
 Three strategic new permanent appointments have been made during the REF2021
 period, specifically to deliver the unit’s goals.
 1) Lecturer in Human Palaeoecology (Rabett), enhancing links between archaeology and
    palaeoecology and bringing new expertise in SE Asian prehistory and experience in world
    heritage site inscription
 2) Lecturer in GIS (Megarry), bringing expertise in geospatial analysis and heritage
    management
 3) Lecturer in Early Medieval Archaeology (Gleeson), complementing existing specialisms in
    this era, and expanding our approaches to landscape visualisation
 All three staff have been confirmed in post and promoted to Senior Lecturer. Additionally, the
 School appointed an ArcPal-based GIS technician (McDermott) to support the CCA and staff.
 Forward planning for the phased retirement of Reimer (beginning autumn 2020) includes the
 appointment of Blaauw as Deputy Director of 14CHRONO. Further recruitments in ArcPal during
 the REF2021 period include two Lecturers in Education (Shuttleworth 2017-19; Le Roy 2017-18,
 2019-21) to enable Malone and Rabett to focus on research.
 ArcPal’s strategic running is overseen by the Head of Discipline (HoD; Murphy), who participates
 in regular School management meetings with the Head of School (HoS), other HoDs, and
 Directors of Research (DRs) and Education, representing the interests of the unit. The School
 Research Committee, led by HoS, includes the DRs, the School’s Director for Postgraduate
 Research, and the School Impact Champion whose role entails promotion of engaged research
 with a wide spectrum of non-academic stakeholders and beneficiaries, in line with QUB strategy,
 and elected representatives of the PDRA community.


 c. Staff development and career progression
 Through shared workspaces, research seminars and frequent social interaction, ArcPal offers an
 intellectually stimulating and inclusive research environment for all staff, ECRs and PGRs. Staff
 development is supported by QUB’s Staff Training and Development Unit, and the Research and
 Enterprise Directorate (R&E), which offers one-to-one guidance and feedback on research and
 impact activities. QUB operates a series of leadership development programmes aimed at
 various career stages and categories of staff.
 Newly appointed staff undertake a probationary period (usually three years) to acclimatise to
 QUB practices and environment, during which time they have reduced teaching and
 administrative loads to enable them to consolidate their research portfolio. Line-managers of
 probationers adopt a mentoring role, and through Queen’s Gender Initiative, all female staff are
 offered mentoring from outside the School. All academic ECRs must complete training on
 Supervising Research Students and obtain Fellowship of the HEA as a requirement to pass
 probation. Early confirmation in post can occur where staff demonstrate they have met the
 requirements of the probationary period, and two staff have benefitted from accelerated
 advancement (Rabett, Gleeson).
 ArcPal has noticeably profited from a change in culture within QUB, with the release in 2018 of
 its People First policy (IES Section 3a). Progression is now actively promoted at unit, School,
 Faculty and Institutional levels through mentoring opportunities and workshops. The staff
 appraisal system has been replaced by a more development-focused framework, the Personal
 Development Review, which is an ongoing process encouraging staff to reflect on their
 personal and professional ambitions, in alignment with QUB’s priorities and core values. All staff
 with line-management duties undertake mandatory training before they engage in reviews. For
 ArcPal, line-management of academic staff is usually via the HoD, while that of academic-
 related staff is through HoD, Principal Investigators (for PDRAs on research projects) or Centre
 Directors (14CHRONO, CCA). During the REF2021 period, eight staff were promoted (six since

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2018-19): four to Senior Lectureship (three males, and one female, now moved to another
 institution), three to Reader (one female, two male), and two to Professor (both female).
 In keeping with QUB policies, the School uses a Work Allocation Model (WAM) to help staff
 balance their responsibilities. For academic staff, the WAM encourages the development of
 research proposals with a time allocation for leading and collaborating on funding bids, whilst
 monitoring time spent on funded research, PGR and PDRA supervision, teaching and
 administration. In addition to encouraged externally-funded research leave, the School operates
 a system of sabbatical leave for all non-probationary academic staff, awarded after either three
 or six years of full-time research/teaching, subject to a suitable research plan being approved by
 School Management. Sabbatical leave is managed through careful forward-planning and
 collegiality. During the REF2021 period, five members of staff (three female, two male) had
 sabbatical leave, enabling completion of research projects and major publications (e.g.,
 Murphy’s second Ballyhanna monograph).


 d. ECRs
 We are committed to supporting ECRs in their development of a sustainable career path. Since
 2014, our newly appointed ECRs have included three academics and 15 PDRAs affiliated with
 14
   CHRONO (3), CCA (1), collaborative research projects (Crannogs: 1; FRAGSUS: 5;
 SUNDASIA: 3), or on individual fellowships supported by Leverhulme (Svyatko), the British
 Academy (Thomas), Marie Skłodowska-Curie Action (MSCA; Boutoille) or Newton International
 Fellowship (NIF: Sun). In addition to mentoring opportunities and a research-focused workload
 (Section 2c), ECRs benefit from a dedicated RC budget that supports hosting and attending
 networking events, organising upskilling and training events, and proof of concept development,
 as well as an informal peer review system to guide their development of grant proposals. Six
 ECRs (Megarry, former staff Basell, and three PDRAs) have benefited from ring-fenced support
 (total: £3.9k). In addition, the School promotes the progression of early-career academics
 through the prioritisation of DfE studentships towards projects led by those staff, with one
 secured by Gleeson.
 SNBE runs a mentoring programme for PDRAs to support skills such as proposal writing, time-
 management and employability. PDRAs are encouraged to undertake at least 10 day’s training
 annually to develop their research and leadership skills, in line with the Researcher
 Development Framework, the Concordat to support the Career Development of Researchers
 and the European Charter for Researchers. Where contracts permit, PDRAs are offered
 opportunities to contribute to or lead teaching activities to enhance their employability for
 academic roles (Thomas, for example, designed and delivered an undergraduate module).
 Three PDRAs have since secured positions in academia or research-related environments
 (Thomas, Farrell, McLaughlin), and Sun will be appointed to a permanent position in the Chinese
 Academy of Sciences on completion of his Fellowship.


 e. PGRs
 ArcPal recognises the importance of PGRs for a healthy and robust research environment, and
 all staff are involved in their supervision.
    Vibrant PGR community. Since REF2014, 26 PGRs have graduated in ArcPal, an increase
     of five compared to ArcPal-related completions in REF2014. At the census date, we were
     engaged in supervision of 14 PGRs, and co-supervision of four PGRs in other disciplines
     and four in other institutions. Despite curtailment of local Government-funded studentships
     since 2017, ArcPal maintains a strong PGR recruitment profile through competition for
     studentships from AHRC-funded Northern Bridge (NB) and, since 2018, NERC-funded
     QUADRAT DTPs, resulting in the total recruitment of 12 PGRs (including autumn 2020
     starts). Additionally, staff have recruited PGRs through a DfE-funded studentship (Gleeson),
     a DfE-QUB collaborative partnership with the National Museum of Northern Ireland
     (Megarry) and the Horizon 2020 Marie-Curie COFUND SPaRK project (Murphy).

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Training and management. PGR
     students undertake 30+ days training
     during their programme, including events
     run by QUB’s Graduate School, or
     opportunities (e.g., courses in R, age-
     model development) within the School or
     externally. Progress is monitored
     through regular supervisory meetings
     and a series of formal milestones
     overseen by an Annual Progress Review
     Panel comprising two staff not involved
     with the student’s research (Fig. 4).
     Students approaching their Viva Voce
     are offered a mock examination. DTP-
     and DfE Collaborative project-funded
     PGRs benefit from placement
     opportunities in professional settings
     (e.g., Heritage Council (Ireland), Pigorini
     National Museum of Prehistory and
     Ethnography). PGR administration is
     handled by SNBE’s Director of
     Postgraduate Research, who chairs the
     School’s Postgraduate Research Committee (SPRC). PGR student representatives sit on the
     Student Voice Committee, the SPRC, and the School’s Research Committee.
    Research environment and employability. PGRs affiliate with one or more of the RCs, and
     attend Cluster meetings and surgeries. The RCs offer funds that ensure self-funded students
     have access to research support (e.g., for fieldwork, research expenses), made available on
     application to the RC (all applications to date have been approved: total £4.9k). Students
     whose research involves isotopic or 14C analysis are trained by 14CHRONO staff, and
     analytical charges are minimal or waived. ArcPal PGRs run their own seminar series and an
     in-house training programme (facilitated by staff) to complement training provided by the
     Graduate School and the DTPs. Staff encourage students to publish aspects of their
     research during the course of the PhD to improve their employability and competitiveness on
     completion of their studies. Recent PGRs demonstrate an excellent publication record
     (collectively, 15 have 55 peer-reviewed outputs from their PhD research), and half of the
     current PhD cohort has published at least one paper relating to their projects. Of the 26
     PGRs graduated since REF2014, 10 have taken up research posts (e.g., Aarhus University,
     University of Malta), and six are professionally employed (e.g., Director of Mattapoisett
     Museum, Massachusetts; Assistant Curator at Historical Royal Palaces). Two were awarded
     prizes for their dissertations (Logue – the Society for Historical Archaeology PhD Dissertation
     Award in 2019; Loyer – the Prize of the Société d'Anthropologie de Paris in 2020).
 Final-year PGRs in 2020 were given a three-month no-fees extension to their programme to
 compensate for the period of campus closure resulting from COVID19 restrictions. Supervision
 and progress monitoring were conducted remotely.


 f. Equality and diversity
 We strive for equality in all our activities, exemplified by a strong gender balance in our staffing
 and ECR populations (Fig. 5). Through our active participation in the School Athena SWAN SAT,
 there is a strong commitment to improve diversity beyond the focus on gender to one more
 attentive to BIPOC and LGBTQ. At the census date, there were eight full-time academic staff
 comprising (female: male) five senior lecturers (0:5), one reader (1:0) and two professors (2:0);
 three academics were further promoted in Spring 2020 (effective from 01/08/20). Additionally,
 there are two part-time (0.2 and 0.5 FTE) female professors. Our FTE includes a multinational
 staff (NI: 3, Republic of Ireland: 3; GB: 2; Netherlands: 1; Germany: 1; USA: 2; Russia: 1), and
 the wider community includes PDRAs and PGRs from China, EU, GB, NI and USA. The most
                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 recent full-time academic appointment was in 2017 (Gleeson, male). We have a predominantly
 white ethnic profile, reflecting challenges of recruiting non-white staff and PGRs in this field in NI
 (white population 98% vs UK-wide 86%). We strive for gender equality when formulating our
 seminar series (in the REF2021 period, 43% of our invited speakers were female), in
 representation in PGR Viva Voce examinations, and in recruitment of external examiners.




 As part of the former School of Geography, Archaeology and Palaeoecology (GAP), ArcPal held
 an Athena Swan Silver Award (2010–18). SNBE has made positive steps to promote equality
 and improve staff wellbeing, including adopting practices initiated by GAP (e.g., striving for
 gender equity in invited speakers; ensuring male and female representation in PhD
 examinations, School Committees, and outreach and recruitment events; open competition for
 internal positions of responsibility; reduced workload for women returning from maternity leave),
 and the outcome of an application for a Bronze Award is pending.
 During the REF2021 period, one academic (subsequently promoted) took funded maternity
 leave and another, paternity leave. QUB provided cover for a replacement lecturer for the female
 academic, ensuring she could avail fully of her leave with minimal disruption to the unit, and
 providing an ECR with valuable experience. In addition, two PDRAs and one PGR availed of
 funded parental leave.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 a. Overview of research grants/income and strategies for funding
 In working towards our strategic goals, our research income over the REF2021 period has
 exceeded £6.8M (mean spend/FTE: £582k), a 58% increase on ArcPal income (£3.9M) in
 REF2014. All academic staff have been PI on at least one project, and have individually been
 awarded no less than £27k (78% >£100k, 22% >£1m). Our funding sources have diversified
 considerably, with a shift from mainly (55%) local government funding in REF2014 to a more
 competitive base including UKRI/British Academy/Royal Society (21%, up from 8% in REF2014)
 and EU Government (24%, up from 16%) (Fig. 6). Local government funding remains an
 important income stream, but has moved from almost exclusively central government (Dept.
 Environment/NI Environment Agency) to a much wider spectrum of public authorities, reflecting
 our increased focus on engaged research and bridge-building activities through the work of the
 CCA. All-Ireland collaborations continue to generate research funding (e.g., Murphy’s Irish
 Government-funded Ranelagh Osteological Project, £432k), and we were successful in securing

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 EU funds through ERC and MSCA. PDRA individual fellowships were supported by Leverhulme,
 British Academy, MSCA and NIF.




 Notable achievements driven by our strategic priorities showcase the reach of our research.
    The interdisciplinary ERC-funded (£1.2m to QUB) FRAGSUS project (Malone) and ongoing
     AHRC/industry-funded (£933k to QUB) SUNDASIA project (Rabett) examine human
     adaptation to environmental change, each representing international collaborations with non-
     academic partners, with a strong emphasis on the promotion and protection of heritage,
     public engagement, and informing policy (Section 4c).
    The CCA has been proactive in six Heritage Lottery Fund/National Lottery Heritage Fund
     landscape partnerships (totalling £685k in awards) and has established a range of public
     partners including local councils, PEACE IV projects, the Historic Environment Division of
     Department for Communities, local museums, and the Royal Irish Academy (Section 4c).
    Migration and adaptation are common themes, explored in different ways, in both the
     ongoing Leverhulme-funded Altai (£210k; Svyatko) and AHRC-funded Sea of Moyle (£79k;
     Gleeson, Plunkett) projects.
 Research funding is now a firmly embedded part of the School culture (Section 3b). The RCs
 and R&E actively promote and facilitate discussions about competitive bids, and facilitate peer-
 review of applications. R&E and Faculty communicate new funding opportunities through
 monthly bulletins.
 In addition to seeking funding to deliver our strategic aims, we identify a number of key priorities.
 1. We will work to ensure all staff become leaders in impactful research by sharing good
    practice, mentoring less experienced staff and including them as co-investigators on
    collaborative project development.
 2. We will aim for greater attention to impact pathways and knowledge transfer within research
    publications to highlight the value of Archaeology and Palaeoecology and advance
    integration into policy.
 3. We will pursue UKRI infrastructural funding to ensure our facilities remain cutting-edge,
    expand our capacity for understanding the past through innovative technology and
    interdisciplinary collaboration, and continue to offer analytical facilities otherwise inaccessible
    to the wider heritage sector on the island of Ireland. In Spring 2020, QUB committed to
    funding a replacement of the current AMS with a new state-of-the-art £2.1M MiCADAS
    which will be operational by mid-2021.
 4. We will aim to promote a culture of diversity and inclusion by attracting PDRAs through
    international collaborative and independent research fellowships.



                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 b. Organisational infrastructure and support for research and impact
 ArcPal hosts two self-funding research centres that are central to the unit’s identity and strategic
 priorities. We also work closely with Geography’s Centre for GIS and Geomatics that hosts a
 diverse collection of spatial data resources via web-based mapping portals.
      The Centre for Community Archaeology (CCA), co-directed by Donnelly and Murphy, has
       evolved from the Centre for Archaeological Fieldwork (CAF) which undertook >130 large-
       scale excavations since 2002. With a change of emphasis towards community-based
       research projects, the CCA was established in 2017 and the unit has conducted 20
       community-based archaeological excavations. It works closely with the Belfast Young
       Archaeologists’ Club (YAC; established 2006, Murphy, Brandherm) and the Ulster
       Archaeological Society, whose membership largely comprises retired individuals. As such,
       our community-based work spans young children through to the elderly, thereby raising
       public awareness of local heritage to all age groups.
      The 14CHRONO Centre for Climate, the Environment and Chronology, led by Reimer
       and Blaauw, has a world-renowned reputation for its contribution to chronology construction,
       and is one of only four centres in the UK to provide 14C-dating. In addition to its AMS facility,
       14
         CHRONO is equipped to run stable isotopes (carbon and nitrogen, and in collaboration with
       SNBE’s Stable Isotope Facility, sulphur, hydrogen and oxygen). 14CHRONO generates
       considerable trade income through services to commercial archaeology, heritage institutions
       and through affiliated internal and external research projects, and also attracts an extensive
       range of international collaborators, leading to high-impact research (see Reimer and
       Blaauw’s ICS). SNBE PGRs and staff benefit from reduced (or waived) costs. Additionally,
       the Dendrochronology Laboratory generates income from commercial dating of oak timbers,
       primarily from archaeological or historical contexts, and offers consultations to professionals
       working with historic buildings. Data from analysed timbers feed into palaeoclimate and
       archaeological research both within ArcPal (Brown, Plunkett) and through external
       collaborations (Brown).
 R&E provides knowledgeable pre- and post-award support, and expertise relating to knowledge
 exchange partnerships and impact. Faculty Finance teams offer one-to-one guidance with
 research applications, and ensure researchers are kept appraised of their budget status. SNBE
 has an efficient administrative framework with dedicated staff for each RC and Discipline, as well
 as a PGR Administrator. SNBE and Institutional incentives for research exist for staff of all levels
 (Table 2). Staff returning from maternity/adoptive leave have a semester free from teaching to
 enable them to resume their research.
 Table 2. QUB and SNBE (italics) research incentives
     All new staff                   ECRs                             All staff
     Support package of £10,000      Opportunity to apply for DfE     Reduced teaching/admin during
                                     PhD scholarship                  probation
     Funded place on PGCHET          PDRAs: 10 annual                 Personalised Research Time
                                     development days and the         allocation for unfunded
                                     Research Development             research and proposal writing in
                                     Framework                        WAM
                                     Proposal Writing Training        Dedicated RC for strategic
                                                                      networking, ECR development
                                                                      and training
                                     Global Research Central          Funding for e.g., engaged
                                     Training, Conference Fund        research development,
                                                                      networking
                                     ECR Development workshops        Advanced Career Researcher
                                                                      Development workshops




                                                                                                  Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 c. Operational infrastructure
 ArcPal benefits significantly from a broad range of facilities that support research and innovation.
 The unit is mainly contained within a single building (ArcPal Building), with access to labs and
 facilities in other parts of SNBE, not least the staff Common Room and School Office in the
 neighbouring Elmwood Building. The ArcPal Building comprises individual office spaces for
 academic and academic-related staff (three fully refurbished since 2014), shared offices for CCA
 team leaders, PDRAs, Emeritus staff, Visiting Scholars and, during their grant periods, the
 FRAGSUS and Ranelagh teams. The SUNDASIA team shares a refurbished office in the
 Elmwood Building. PGRs and CCA staff have open plan office space. The ArcPal Building
 includes facilities that encourage interaction and promote a sense of community, including
 dedicated social and meetings spaces, and a newly designed student resource room. We also
 have access to world-class meeting facilities for hosting conferences and other research
 meetings, including a Mashme suite enabling up to 64 external parties to share interactive
 discussions and activities.
 In addition to 14CHRONO facilities, we have an extensive range of well-equipped archaeology
 and palaeoecology labs, as well as specialist equipment, to support our wide-ranging lab and
 field research. PGRs and PDRAs who require microscopes have dedicated workspaces in the
 microscope labs. Requests for equipment and infrastructural enhancements are channelled to
 SNBE and Faculty via the RCs. Equipment maintenance is managed through SNBE’s Lab
 budget.
 We also avail of a wide range of facilities in SNBE, Faculty and, through collaborations, with
 other University departments. The School shares with the School of Maths & Physics a
 Scanning Electron Microscope fitted with a wavelength dispersive spectrometer for tephra
 geochemical analyses which has been central for the continuation of tephrochronology in
 ArcPal. ArcPal has been building links with Biomedical Sciences to develop capabilities in the
 analysis of aDNA, sedaDNA and microbiomes. With QUB’s Institute for Global Food Security we
 are developing capacity in TQ-ICP-MS to complement 14CHRONO and SNBE’s Stable Isotope
 Facility to deliver analysis in Sr and Pb isotopes for bioarchaeological and palaeoecological
 analyses.
 Campus closure resulting from COVID19 restrictions impacted research in terms of lab access
 and fieldwork. Where research staff were able to progress with work remotely, they have done
 so with team meetings conducted virtually; CCA and some technical staff were furloughed. A
 number of mitigation strategies were put into place after the REF2021 period.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 a. Summary of collaboration and wider contribution
 As the only Archaeology department in NI, ArcPal has a pivotal role to play in ensuring the past
 is presented in a balanced, empirically-founded fashion, all the more in a region with a conflicted
 past. Since 2014, we have built bridges between local communities and civic authorities through
 engaged research. The scope of this engagement is not limited to NI, but extends to
 understanding, promoting and protecting shared heritage in other regions of the world. At the
 same time, we continue to grow our reputation for excellence in chronology-building and make
 substantive contributions to understanding climate change, reflected in the wide scope of our
 collaborative outputs with national and international peers and, through the academic
 significance of our work, to intergovernmental policy.


 b. Academic collaborations and contribution to wider academic community
 Our main collaborations and research networks have developed in response to our ambitions to
 enhance our engaged research, and through our individual and collective reputation as a leading
 centre for chronology development and archaeological enquiry. The global extent of our
 research connections (Fig. 7) is matched by our high proportion (78%) of co-authored outputs (of
 which 38% were led by ArcPal staff or ECRs). Our international field projects (FRAGSUS,
                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 SUNDASIA) incorporate local institutions (Valetta, Hanoi) in wide collaborative networks. Other
 major international collaborations include Blaauw’s NERC/NSF-funded MexiDrill project that
 brings together five UK-USA institutions, and his NERC-funded DeepChalla-UK project
 encompassing 11 institutions across the UK, Africa and USA. Megarry has been working with
 the African World Heritage Fund on project applications – including vulnerability assessment
 training in Tanzania and Nigeria – since the launch of the Climate Heritage Network in
 Edinburgh in 2019.
 Key research on human and domesticate origins has been enabled by our long-standing links
 with genetic specialists in Trinity College Dublin (Murphy, formerly McCormick). The QUADRAT
 DTP with UAber has forged new collaborations, broadening the scope of our interdisciplinary
 research, with seven co-supervised PGRs recruited in the first two years of the programme.




 We demonstrate leadership through key roles on working groups and advisory panels. We sit on
 committees of, for example, the Historic Monuments Council of Northern Ireland (Megarry),
 University Archaeology UK (Murphy), Royal Irish Academy (Murphy) and the Discovery
 Programme: Centre for Archaeology and Innovation (Brandherm), as well as the Leverhulme
 Advisory Team (Malone), through which we help shape national research agendas. Megarry is
 on the bureau of the ICOMOS Working Group on Climate Change and Cultural Heritage (2017–
 present) and is an expert member of the International Committee on Archaeological Heritage
 Management (2015–present); Rabett is a member of the Trang An Scientific Advisory
 Committee. Reimer has developed and chaired the international radiocarbon calibration (IntCal)
 group responsible for producing the world-leading 14C calibration datasets; this work has
 underpinned an enormous body of research in the fields of archaeology and palaeoecology (see
 Reimer and Blaauw’s ICS).
 Our achievements have been recognised by notable appointments and prizes. Reimer was
 elected to the Royal Irish Academy (2014). Brandherm, Horning, Malone, Megarry and Murphy
 are Fellows of the Society of Antiquaries of London and Brandherm, Horning and Malone of the
 Society of Antiquaries of Scotland. Brandherm is President of the International Union of
 Prehistoric and Protohistoric Sciences Commission 'Metal Ages in Europe'. In 2019, Blaauw was

                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 invited to join the Advisory Board of the International Union for Quaternary Research’s
 Stratigraphy & Chronology Commission. Plunkett is President of the Irish Quaternary
 Association and was on the Directorate of the Discovery Programme Centre for Research and
 Innovation (2015–2017). Our outputs have been recognised by the wider community (e.g.,
 Horning’s James Mooney Book Award and CHOICE Outstanding Academic Title, Gleeson’s
 2020 Martyn Jope prize). Other marks of success include invited research visits/lecturing series
 (Fig. 7). Fig. 8 summarises our contributions (mainly by invitation) to the academic community.
 Additionally, Blaauw has run 11 ECR-oriented age-modelling workshops (six by invitation) in
 nine countries, ensuring our strategy of
 supporting new researchers has international
 reach. We have hosted 12 national or
 international Visiting Scholars for knowledge
 exchange and training. ArcPal successfully
 bid to host the Paleoclimate Society
 PACS2020 (now 2021) and annual European
 Association of Archaeology (EAA) 2022 (now
 2023) meetings. Murphy was recognised as
 Belfast Ambassador of the Year (2019) for
 her successful bid to host the EAA meeting in
 Belfast, in recognition of the expected
 economic benefits it will bring to the City.


 c. Engagement with non-academic communities
 The CCA’s Landscape Partnerships and our work with World Heritage Sites exemplify our
 commitment to engaged research (see Malone, Rabett and Megarry’s ICS). Partnerships with
 public authorities, museums, community groups and private bodies maximise the impact of the
 work through local buy-in and promotion, and help deliver tangible outcomes on policy and
 practice. Building upon the success of the Tràng An World Heritage inscription, SUNDASIA’s
 project partners include the Vietnam Institutes of Geosciences & Mineral Resources and
 Archaeology, Hanoi, the Ninh Binh Departments of Tourism and Culture & Sport, the Tràng An
 Management Board and Ninh Binh Provincial People’s Committee, as well as Xuan Truong
 Construction Enterprise; individuals from several of these organisations have actively
 participated in the fieldwork. The FRAGSUS project has co-operated with local heritage
 organisations, including Superintendence of Cultural Heritage, Malta, and the National Museum
 of Archaeology, Heritage Malta,
 which hosted the FRAGSUS
 exhibition in 2018. The CCA
 engages with city and district
 councils, local and national
 museums, heritage trusts,
 community groups and private
 companies to raise the profile of
 archaeological heritage at
 local/national levels, and with the
 public through community
 archaeology, open days and
 festivals (Fig. 9). The CCA won
 QUB’s Staff Excellence Community
 Impact Award (2019) in recognition
 of its inclusive engagement of
 people across Northern Ireland – of
 all ages, backgrounds and abilities –
 in the study of their heritage.
 Communication of knowledge is a central tenet of our work, reflected by our contributions to
 many local and national outreach events, including annual contributions by staff, PDRAs and

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PGRs to the Northern Ireland Science Festival. Ranelagh Osteoarchaeological Project staff
 undertook outreach events for school children as part of the Science Week Festival in the
 National Museum of Ireland, Dublin (2018–20). Since 2017, the CCA has co-organised the
 annual Discovery! public conference with the Ulster Archaeological Society, highlighting new
 archaeological research in Ireland (supported by C&S RC). In 2016, we organised and led a
 public seminar (>90 attendees) – Archaeology of Atlantic Crossings: Early Explorations, Trade
 and Migration – with the Ulster Museum. ArcPal hosts the longstanding Belfast YAC (led by
 Murphy and Brandherm), and staff have participated in 11 local primary school outreach events
 since 2014, in addition to >100 CCA events involving school children.
 We reach a wide non-academic community through project websites (e.g., SUNDASIA,
 FRAGSUS) and non-specialist media (magazine articles, TV appearances, podcasts and
 documentarie, such as the Smithsonian Channel’s Sacred Sites). Our activities are widely
 shared through social media accounts (e.g., ArcPal’s Facebook page has 3,900 followers), and
 our biweekly research seminars open to staff, students and the wider public. Our projects and
 research outputs have attracted significant media coverage (e.g. Plunkett’s PNAS paper on
 Okmok’s eruption impacts was picked up by 103 news outlets).


 d. Wider impact on non-academic world and communities
 Rabett is working in collaboration with the Tràng An Management Board (TAMB), provincial
 Department of Tourism and Xuan Truong Construction Enterprise to create a new exhibition
 space and museum storage facility focused on the cultural heritage of Tràng An aimed at the
 general public, school children and research. GIAA funding (2018) has provided resources for a
 film documentary, exhibition and training for 62 local staff in conservation practice as part of a
 broad-base collaboration to reintroduce the critically endangered Delacour’s langur to Trang An
 (Table 1). A DfE-GCRF award (2020-21) to Rabett focuses on local community involvement in
 ecotourism at Tràng An (Vietnam) and the World Heritage site at Sinharaja (Sri Lanka) with a
 SOAS University of London economist, TAMB and the Munasinghe Institute for Development,
 Colombo, together with UNESCO offices in both countries.
 The bridge-building work of the CCA and the Corrymeela project (Horning) highlights the positive
 role that archaeology can play in helping reshape public understanding of the past in societies
 moving out of conflict. The lasting benefits of these engagements, specifically in relation to
 attitudinal and cognitive values, are now being researched by a former CCA member as part of a
 PGR project (supervised by Donnelly).
 Long-standing research by Gleeson at the Rock of Cashel, Ireland, and the Leverhulme-funded
 Comparative Kingship project, was pivotal in the design of a town park, and mitigated impacts on
 archaeology through the provision of public amenity linking this UNESCO WHS-nominated site
 with the town-centre as a part of urban re-generation work by Tipperary County Council.




                                                                                            Page 17
