Institution: Swansea University

Unit of Assessment: 28 History

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Unit Context

UoA 28 at Swansea is a diverse and inter-disciplinary community of 36 (34.25 FTE)
Category A scholars of the past, based in the departments of History; Political and Cultural
Studies; and Ancient History, Classics and Egyptology, all within the College of Arts and
Humanities (COAH). Our expertise ranges across history, heritage, material culture,
archaeology, ancient languages and classical literature, and spans Europe, the Middle East,
North America and Asia. While our research has global reach, our research environment is
shaped by the needs of the community in which we are rooted. In a region profoundly
affected by industrialization and de-industrialization, by political devolution and Welsh
cultural identity, we take seriously our responsibility to work in partnership with outside
organizations to foster wellbeing, inclusivity and opportunity for all. Engagement and
impact are at the heart of all our research activities. Our strengths in public history
and heritage shape much of this work and form a common thread running through the work
of our six research centres (detailed in 1.2) and the broader culture of the UoA.

In this census period we have retained, as our core strategic vision, the three fundamental
principles set out in REF2014:




Our goal, to achieve ambitious expansion in all three areas, was pursued by continuing to
invest heavily (through staff recruitment, internal seed-corn funding, and the formalisation
and creation of research centres).



1.2 Achievement of Strategic Aims



                                                                                      Page 1
Our strategic commitment to continuity has delivered significant growth in all of our
activities, and pro-active succession planning has ensured sustainability in our research
themes. There has been a strategic staffing investment in Public History through two
permanent appointments. Since the last REF, our research income has increased by
228% to £2,276,251.43, including follow-on awards recognizing our existing, high-impact
work in industrial heritage and disability history. This has enabled us to build on the success
of our long-term research strengths - as evidenced by our ‘Copperopolis Reborn’ and
‘Disability and Industrial Society’ Impact Case Studies - and to foster major collaborative
work in ancient heritage, detailed in the ‘Protecting Cultural Heritage in Conflict Zones’
Impact Case Study.

Our support of individual scholarly excellence has delivered a total output of 38 books
(monographs, collections and scholarly editions) and 138 peer-reviewed articles since 2014.
Individual researchers have benefited from departmental and College support mechanisms
to secure notable successes in grant capture, fellowship awards from the AHRC,
Leverhulme and Wellcome Trust, as well as funded, visiting positions at libraries and
universities outside the UK. We have invested in the talented early career researchers
(ECRs) recruited early in this cycle, enabling them to fulfill their potential alongside senior
colleagues now securing their Chairs in History (details in Section 2).

Since 2014 our Research Centres and Groups have evolved and expanded with targeted
investment in staffing and enhanced support for emergent themes. All of our research
groups collaborate with community, educational and heritage organizations. Their interests,
activities and memberships draw in researchers from other UoAs, creating a lively,
outward-looking and interdisciplinary research environment. All receive support from
a COAH Research Environment Fund each year and have used this to develop partnerships
and carry out scoping and networking activities essential to the development of ambitious,
externally funded research projects.




Conflict, Reconstruction and Memory (CRAM) (formerly War and Commemoration)
brings together researchers in Ancient History, History and Politics, and has been



                                                                                        Page 2
strengthened by two further permanent appointments. It has been instrumental in founding
the Society for the History of War, further promoting Swansea as a centre of expertise in
war and remembrance.

Its externally-funded and international collaborations have included the HERA research
network, Making War, Mapping Europe: Militarized Culture Encounters, 1792-1920, in co-
operation with the National Army Museum, London, the Militärhistorisches Museum,
Dresden, the Deutsches Historisches Museum, Berlin and the Bayerisches
Hauptstaatsarchiv, Munich. This produced an online exhibition linked to the bicentenary of
the Napoleonic Wars and the First World War centenary. CRAM also hosts the AHRC-
funded Welsh Memorials to the Great War community project, and the Saving Cultural
Heritage project (one of our Impact Case Studies) which engages with government, armed
forces and heritage professionals. CRAM’s regular activities include an annual conference
and public lecture, ECR workshops, seminars and reading groups led by postgraduate
research students.

Medical Humanities Research Centre (MHRC) (formerly Health, History and Culture)
brings together colleagues from History, English, Modern Languages and Human and
Health Sciences. It has been augmented by three permanent staffing appointments in
History. Disability runs as a cross-period thread through its activities. It is home to the major
Wellcome-funded project, Disability and Industrial Society, led by Swansea, with partners
at Aberystwyth, Northumbria, Strathclyde and Glasgow Caledonian Universities. This
concluded successfully in 2016 and continues to shape the public understanding of disability
as highlighted in the Disability and Industrial Society Impact Case Study. Through both a
permanent exhibition at the National Waterfront Museum and touring regional exhibitions, it
has ensured that disabled people are part of the national story of Welsh industrialization,
and has empowered grassroots disability advocacy groups to research their own history.

The Centre has an annual programme of workshops and has hosted postgraduate and ECR
career-development activities. MHRC's current research on 'Resilience' developed from a
2019 workshop and has since been adopted as the theme of the Social History of Medicine
society’s biennial conference, to be hosted in Swansea in 2022. It also underpins our
partnership with Swansea’s Centre for Innovative Ageing, that won strategic funding of
£2.6million from the Wales European Funding Office, European Regional Development
Fund and Swansea University to establish the Awen Institute. This brings academics, policy
makers, service users and creative industries together to develop research and innovation
around healthy ageing. Our workstream (2019-2022) addresses accessibility in the arts and
heritage industries.

Medieval and Early Modern Research (MEMO) brings together historians and specialists
in literature and language from across our Arts and Humanities departments. Promoting
new research on gender has been an important recent focus of its work. It has had notable
success in collaborative research grant applications. The four-year AHRC funded project,
Women Negotiating the Boundaries of Justice: Britain and Ireland c.1100-c.1350, in
partnership with Cardiff and Glasgow Universities, concluded successfully in December




                                                                                          Page 3
2018. Subsequently, Leverhulme funding was secured for Visiting Professors in History
(2019) and English (2020).

MEMO fosters development of its postgraduates and ECRs through research skills
workshops, and organizes panels at the Leeds and Kalamazoo International Medieval
Congresses. Working across disciplines, MEMO hosted the British Society for the History
of Science conference (2015), and the Gender and Medieval Studies conference (2020). It
holds an annual, interdisciplinary symposium and participates in video-linked meetings for
the all-Wales medieval studies network. Members of MEMO promote pre-modern history
and archaeology in the broadcast and digital media.

The Richard Burton Centre for the Study of Wales (Burton) is at the forefront of
enhancing public understanding of Wales’s history and culture and combines history,
literature and creative arts.

Its ongoing industrial heritage initiatives include the Hafod-Morfa Copperworks project.
Originally supported by the ESRC and Cadw, this developed into a central feature of the
regeneration of east Swansea, attracting £769,890 of European Regional Development
funding (2012-2014), and aligning with the University’s goal to deliver economic growth
through regeneration. As detailed in the ‘Copperopolis Reborn’ Impact Case Study, UoA
researchers have been instrumental in establishing the historic significance of this
previously derelict industrial site, contributing to its regeneration as a copper-themed
heritage quarter through significant private and public investment. Support for new research
on steel history and heritage was also underway in 2014 and has since flourished. An
AHRC-funded project on Visions of Steel, in collaboration with Tata Port Talbot, piloted a
public engagement project with a local school and community groups. From that emerged
The Social Worlds of Steel project, which was awarded £227,832 by the AHRC to develop
and communicate research on steel history to heritage professionals and the public in
Wales.

Members of the Burton centre undertake extensive media work and contribute to
development work around the new Welsh national curriculum. Working extensively with
partners in the heritage sector, our commitment to industrial heritage also sits at the heart
of its work.

Other smaller established and emerging research groupings exist within the UoA,
signifying the diversity and vitality of our research environment. KYKNOS, the Centre for
Research on the Narrative Literatures of the Ancient World, was founded in 2004 to
promote the specialist work of the classical literature researchers in our unit. It has been
strengthened by two strategic appointments and has evolved to become a hub of national
and international networks for scholars of ancient narrative literature.

More recently we have launched a major new research cluster: OLCAP, the research group
for Object and Landscape-Centred Approaches to the Past. This was initially focused
on ancient Egypt, and long-standing collaborations and synergies between the
Egyptologists and the University's Egypt Centre (leading to major funding awards such as



                                                                                      Page 4
a Leverhulme grant of £157,764.43 (2013-16) for a project on Ancient Egyptian
Demonology: the Second Millennium BCE. The interdisciplinary and collaborative potential
of this research centre was extended by building in research on the material culture of
Greco-Roman antiquity as well as of ancient Egypt. Two strategic appointments were made
to facilitate this goal. Staff in the new group also work closely with CRAM by collaborating
in research on heritage sites in conflict zones.

Underpinning all of this is our commitment to making our research open and accessible.
As well as contributing to the Wellcome Trust and UKRI consultations on Open Access in
the arts and humanities, and publishing OA articles and monographs, we share our work
widely through public talks, writing popular books and magazine articles and writing and
presenting for national radio and television within and outside Wales.

1.3 Future goals

At the heart of our vision for the future is our commitment to the civic mission expected of
universities by Welsh Government. Our key goals are to build on our strengths in
community- and public-focused historical research in a way that not only advances
knowledge, but enriches lives. In addition to fostering our existing research strengths in the
medical humanities, in object-based research and on the cultural and societal impacts of
war, we see the study of industrial heritage, disability history, and Welsh history as areas
where we can make a real contribution to the advancement of knowledge and societal
wellbeing in the future. Our four key goals are to:

i) Establish ourselves as a centre of excellence in industrial heritage research and
outreach
The success of the ongoing Hafod-Morfa copperworks project has enabled us to develop a
range of partnerships and expertise in industrial heritage and place-based regeneration
work on which we can now build. In August 2020, we secured a three-year award from
HEFCW’s Research Wales Innovation Fund, worth £153,000 per year, enabling us to recruit
a new senior lecturer in industrial heritage, with the remit of growing our existing research-
led heritage regeneration work in the Lower Swansea Valley, and expanding capacity
through targeted funding applications in collaboration with partners in heritage
organizations.

ii) Grow our expertise and outreach activities relating to object-centred learning
The new OLCAP research group, led by Hussein, has piloted successful object-handling
sessions for local people, drawing on the unique collection of 6,000 ancient artefacts housed
at Swansea’s Egypt Centre. With external funding recently secured from the institute of
Classical Studies, plans are in place to develop new exhibition spaces at the Egypt Centre
and to facilitate further public engagement with the collections, both physically and remotely.
By promoting object-handling skills, bringing the public closer to the historic collections
housed in their community, and by widening knowledge of the rich cultures and traditions of
the ancient world, OLCAP will add a new dimension to our commitment to our place-based
civic mission work over the next five years.




                                                                                        Page 5
iii) Continue to foster world-leading, collaborative research in disability history
A key feature of our ongoing disability history research will be to co-produce new projects
with disabled people. A recently submitted AHRC Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
Engagement Fellowship application (outcome pending) proposes work with four disability
organisations in Wales to explore disabled people’s responses to the current pandemic in
the context of disability history. Turner has recently been appointed trustee of Disability Arts
Cymru, a position he will use to build closer links between disabled people’s organisations
and HE in Wales with a view to developing future projects. We have also established a
cross-campus Disability Studies Network with colleagues in Medicine, Health Science, Law,
Sociology and Education, to develop a new interdisciplinary research strategy.

iv) Become a beacon for Equalities-led History
We are committed to fostering diversity in the profession and in the histories it promotes. In
2018 we co-hosted Diverse Histories for the Royal Historical Society. This was a
collaborative event with the universities of Bangor and South Wales and co-funded by
History Research Wales. A panel on ‘Diverse Women’s History’ at the Women’s Archive
Wales annual conference followed in the same year. We have undertaken a review to begin
the work of decolonizing all of our activities, informed by the Royal Historical Society's
equality reports on Gender and Race. Our flagship projects embed inclusivity and
accessibility. The Burton Centre for the Study for Wales will focus on supporting the new
Curriculum for Wales, using our expertise to ensure its delivery is underpinned by the latest
research, on ethnicity and diversity. Johnes’ appointment to the Welsh Government
advisory committee on the inclusion of Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic history in schools,
following the publication of his recent research on black history, demonstrates how our
expertise is beginning to feed into policy making in this area.

Common to each of these goals is our determination to foster strong partnerships with
heritage professionals, education policy makers, community groups and broadcast media,
so that our research is transformational within and without the academy.




                                                                                         Page 6
2. People

2.1 Staffing Strategy

Since 2014, 14 new, permanent appointments have been made. These mainly
replacement posts have offered the UoA and those high-calibre individuals joining us, the
opportunity to develop long-term, sustainable research plans. They align with, and amplify,
our research areas, and ensure continuity where existing staff retired:

 Ian Goh (2017), Ersin Hussein (2018) and      Strengthen our research expertise in
 Christian Knoblauch (2018)                    Ancient History, Classics and Egyptology
 Simon John and Patricia Skinner (2016)        Give impetus to the work of MEMO
 Eugene Miakinkov (2014) and Tomás Irish       Expand the work of CRAM
 (2015)
 Irina Metzler (Wellcome Lectureship,          Following a 2-year Research Fellowship,
 2014-2019)                                    to contribute to MHRC and MEMO
 Michael Bresalier (2015); Themis              Provide momentum to the interdisciplinary
 Chronopoulos (2016); Sarah Crook (2018)       work of MHRC in public health
 Gethin Matthews (move to permanent            Boosts our Welsh-language research
 contract)                                     profile and contributes to the Burton
                                               Centre
 Alex Langlands (2015) and Sarah May           Mark a major investment in cross-period
 (2018)                                        Public History and Heritage

At the census date, there are 36 (34.25 FTE) Category A staff in the unit. (An additional 4
permanent staff are on teaching contracts. Their career pathways are reviewed annually as
part of Swansea’s Professional Development Review process which provides a route to a
research pathway for any member of academic staff who wishes to pursue this.)

Our future staffing strategy is to continue our practice of targeted investment, both to
enhance the opportunities available to existing researchers to publish and build impact from
their research (through impact leave, for instance), and to extend the priority research
areas through new, complementary appointments.

We have taken positive action in the recruitment and remuneration process to address the
historic gender imbalance in the unit (see Section 2.4). In the current REF period, this has
resulted in the appointment of five new women to permanent posts and the promotion of
three others to professorial grade. Along with our sister departments in COAH, we
contributed to a self-assessment exercise which led to the submission of an application for
an Athena Swan Bronze Award (outcome pending).

2.2 Staff Development

Our staff development strategy has continued to focus on enabling all staff within the unit
to publish, make connections and build impact for their work.




                                                                                     Page 7
Swansea holds a HR Excellence in Research Award, supporting the Concordat for the
Career Development of Research Staff. The department’s major successes in external grant
capture this cycle (see Sections 1 and 3), as well as the Swansea University Centenary
project, has led to the recruitment of 9 project officers/research assistants, significantly
increasing the proportion of ECR staff in the UoA. They, together with other ECRs recruited
in this REF cycle, have benefited from our commitment to career development mentoring
for all researchers.

The University promotes a performance-enabling culture through its Professional
Development Review (PDR) system. All new appointments, including early-career
appointments and fixed-term staff, are allocated a mentor to assist their career
development and advise on personal research and impact strategies. All staff, regardless
of their career stage, complete personal research and publication strategies and are
mentored by our Directors of Research and other professorial staff. It is our policy to offer
fixed-term and part-time staff the same access to all research support mechanisms
including mentoring, eligibility for financial support to attend conferences and access to the
sabbatical scheme. Our research groups regularly offer honorary positions as a means for
researchers to build or maintain their association with Swansea, to participate in our
activities and to secure paid positions such as fellowships.

The success of this policy is evident in outcomes for ECRs employed on some of our key
projects:

 ECR                  Research Project                   Career Outcome
 Sparky Booker        Women Negotiating the              Permanent lectureship at Queens
                      Boundaries of Justice              University Belfast; winner of
                                                         Donald Murphy Prize for
                                                         Distinguished First Books
                                                         (American Conference for Irish
                                                         Studies) 2019
 Emma Cavell          Women Negotiating the              Gained lectureship at Swansea
                      Boundaries of Justice              and developed a project on
                                                         medieval Jewish women's
                                                         litigation that secured pilot
                                                         funding and led to an application
                                                         for an EU Consolidator Grant
 Teresa Phipps        Women Negotiating the              Programme Officer for Wales at
                      Boundaries of Justice              The Brilliant Club
 Megan Ryder          First World War Memorials          Assistant Archivist: Royal
                                                         Commission for Ancient and
                                                         Historic Monuments of Wales
 Daniel Blackie       Disability and Industrial          Research fellowship at the
                      Society                            University of Oulu (Finland)
 Michael Mantin       Disability and Industrial          Published 5 peer-reviewed
                      Society                            journal articles before pursuing a
                                                         career in media


                                                                                       Page 8
ECRs in lecturing posts are given a reduced teaching load and an exemption from major
administrative portfolios to aid their research development. Workshops and one-to-one
coaching sessions on impact are provided for PGRs and ECRs to enable them to achieve
their full potential.

Academic staff also have access to bespoke support. Blue Sky (2016-2019) was a College-
wide one-to-one academic research coaching initiative initiated in the UoA, which
provided critical guidance for colleagues from postdoc upwards to identify publication
opportunities, develop small- and large-scale grant applications and focus on quality rather
than quantity in their outputs. Operating since 2016, the scheme engaged with over 30
colleagues within and outside the UoA, and assisted History colleagues in winning major
funding (notably Miskell's AHRC Leadership Fellowship for The Social Worlds of Steel). The
scheme has since been rolled into a broader palette of support available from the College
(see Section 3, below).

As Swansea historians, we benefit from the strong sense of community and social
responsibility fostered by the College and University, and bring that culture to our own
activities. The History Department’s research seminar series (held in core hours to
enable broad participation) unites the different research groups, fostering collegiality and
the sharing of current project findings. PGRs and ECRs are encouraged to present and
contribute and the programme also forms part of MA students' timetabled activities,
developing them as the researchers of the future. Colleagues in Ancient History, Classics
and Egyptology also run regular research seminar series, and co-host the colloquium of the
Universities in Wales Institute of Classics and Ancient History every three years.
Researchers across the UoA are also brought together by end-of-year publication parties
and book launches, celebrating individual and collaborative successes.

We share an enhanced commitment to research integrity. All staff undertake mandatory
training in research integrity utilizing an online package developed at Swansea University.
College ethical approval is a pre-condition of all applications for external funding and for
undergraduate and postgraduate research projects. We employ an online ethics clearance
system and we train our students at all levels to develop research in an ethically aware
manner. Supported by the college Research Governance framework, our research is
conducted in a way that respects the dignity, rights and welfare of participants.

Our staff development strategy embeds the development of research leadership and
networking. Clifford participated in the Aurora Leadership Programme in 2017 and was
cited as a case study of the scheme’s success the following year. History supported the
participation of Clifford and Irish in the Welsh Crucible, a networking and development
opportunity for those identified as ‘rising stars’, and Miakinkov participated in the Digital
Economy Crucible in 2016. The integration of both Hussein and Knoblauch into the research
culture and research leadership of the UoA has been achieved by their co-ordinating the
establishment of OLCAP, the research group for Object and Landscape Centred
Approaches to the Past. This commitment to research leadership reflects a wider University
policy of recognizing and promoting outstanding research achievements in order to



                                                                                      Page 9
inspire others. Since 2015, three members of the UoA have won University prizes for their
research impacts and contributions to society.

Time remains the key way to facilitate individual scholarly excellence. During term, all
full-time staff have a weekly research day, free from teaching responsibilities. Part-time staff
can arrange their timetabled teaching to facilitate research time. Staff also have access to
a competitive, targeted research leave scheme to enable sustained work on high-quality
outputs, successful grant capture and impact activities. Staff members, regardless of career
pathway and level, can apply for one semester of research leave after 6 semesters, and
may be granted a full year following particularly heavy teaching or administrative roles, or
for projects of particular significance. In total, 25 staff in the unit have received at least one
semester’s sabbatical leave during the current REF period, including all those who
completed a monograph this cycle. Public engagement and impact work is also
supported by adjusting teaching loads and through making connections to curriculum
developments. The success here has led to the launch of a new MA in Heritage, further
facilitating close external partnerships through student placements.

Whether individually, or as part of a research group, all UoA members are encouraged and
supported in their applications for external research leave and exchanges, thereby
giving them the opportunity to increase their research time beyond the University scheme.
For example:

     Rebecca Clifford held a Visiting Professor position at the BMW Center for German
     and European Studies, Georgetown University (2015)
     Adam Mosley held the Dibner Fellowship in the History of Science and Technology
     at the Huntington Library, California (2015-16)
     David Anderson was an Eccles Centre Visiting Fellow at the British Library in 2017
     and was awarded the inaugural Scholarship for the Study of Historical and
     Contemporary Slavery at Gladstone’s Library in Hawarden (2019)
     Matthew Stevens secured a visiting position as Ulam Fellow at Nicolas Copernicus
     University, Torun (Poland) (2019-21)
     Simon John commenced a six-month visiting fellowship at the Historisches
     Seminar, Ruprecht-Karls-Universität, Heidelberg, Germany in July 2020.

These exchanges have been achieved by the University supplementing external funds won
to cover the cost of replacement teaching. The University’s strategic partnerships, too,
have enabled UoA staff to benefit from opportunities to develop international collaborations
through targeted periods of leave: Clifford spent a semester at the LAHRHA research
laboratory, Grenoble-Alpes University, in 2017.

2.3 Postgraduate Research Support and Training

The promotion and support of postgraduate research is an integral aspect of the College’s
and UoA’s vision for research development. There has been a significant growth in the
size and scope of our graduate student research culture. We have supervised 34 PhDs
to completion, a 19% increase on the REF2014 census period. The UoA currently has 37



                                                                                          Page 10
students working towards doctorates. Supervision is supported by an online progress
monitoring system. All PGR students are provided with a research allowance for
conference presentation and research trips, and are members of the College Graduate
Centre, which offers dedicated desk space and IT facilities, organizes an annual
conference and runs a programme of training and skills workshops. PGRs also benefit
from University-wide postgraduate induction, skills and career development workshops.

Swansea’s excellence as a centre for doctoral research in History has attracted
funded studentships, for which we work particularly hard, given our current position
outside of the AHRC’s Doctoral Training Partnerships and Colleges. In the census period,
our continued reputation for excellence in supervision and research environment has been
recognized through an ESRC DTC Wales award; a Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol doctoral
award and three AHRC CDAs with major heritage institutions (two with the Science
Museum, and one with the National Portrait Gallery).

International collaborations have also been important in the expansion of the size and
horizon of our PGR community. Clifford’s ground-breaking work on memory in partnership
with the Department of Psychology led to the award of a Swansea University Strategic
Partnerships Research Scholarship with Communauté Universités Grenoble Alpes. Our
partnership with the University of Central Oklahoma (UCO) is also expanding our
community of PhD students. These PGR students are based in the USA but co-supervised
by a UCO faculty member and a Swansea supervisor. We currently have six such Oklahoma
PhD students supervised in our UoA. Further international co-supervision has come through
collaboration with the Sorbonne and universities of Angers and Poitiers.

In addition to external funds, the University has awarded four Research Excellence
Scholarships to the UoA, helping us to attract high-quality candidates to undertake
innovative research projects. These currently fund PGR research on: Invisible Disability in
Nineteenth-Century Britain and Ireland; The Welsh in India, 1857-1947; Medieval Cities of
Old and New Sarum; and Creating the King in Early Saite Egypt. The College has also
committed significant resources to PhD research. As part of its Centenary initiatives, COAH
funded two History PhD studentships to explore Student Life 1920-90 and the History of
Science at Swansea University. A COAH Studentship supported work on heritage in
Florence during the Second World War, thus further developing our expertise in wartime
heritage conservation. Additional COAH awards are currently funding PhD research on
Remembering Disasters; Militarization in European Society after 1945; and The League of
Nations in Wales, 1918-1939. Concentrating funded PhDs in our priority research areas has
helped embed students into our research groups and thereby access a lively research
environment relevant to their work and development.

Within the UoA, our research centres and groups are important focal points for building a
PGR community and enabling their skills development. With funding from a College
Research Environment Fund, all centres and groups support PGR workshops, annual
colloquia or reading groups. For example, CRAM integrates PGR students into its activities
via a monthly reading group. Led and organised by PGRs, this has been important in
bringing together faculty and ECRs and fostering new thinking and scholarly exchanges.
MEMO's Leverhulme Trust Visiting Professor in 2019, Wendy Turner (Augusta), also hosted


                                                                                   Page 11
a PGR and ECR Career Development workshop, one of several targeted training events
during the census period.

Investments in studentships have been important in driving forward wider research
activities within targeted areas. Miskell’s AHRC Leadership Award built on momentum first
developed in steel history research by a University-funded PhD studentship (completed
2016) which demonstrated the research potential of local archival records on steel. The
University’s creation of a postdoctoral position studying University history evolved out of the
research potential first demonstrated by its funding of two PhD studentships in that area.
The UoA has helped this group of ECRs to engage with wider networks in the study of
University history. Irish (appointed in 2015) helped anchor this work, organizing a series of
special seminars, and a panel on University history, featuring Swansea PGRs and Post-doc
research at the 2017 History of Education Society conference.

We seek to enhance the employability of our PGRs by offering them teaching
opportunities, placements, and opportunities to engage in other professional and networking
activities. Recognizing postdoctoral precarity, we actively support our PGRs in this
transitional phase, with mentoring towards publication and job applications. To aid in their
career development, students are supported in contributing to online research blogs and
organizing research colloquia, such as Vision and Eyesight across Time and Culture, 2018
(Gemma Almond). Our link with the Society for the Social History of Medicine enabled
Geraldine Gnych to secure a paid position as its journal’s book reviews assistant. In 2020
we were approached by the Institute for Historical Research (IHR) to co-run a training
workshop, for PGR and ECRs from across Wales and the west of England, on creating
public history outputs, working with the media and using archives to explore and support
diversity issues. Due to COVID-19 this was postponed until 2022 when it will form part of
the IHR’s centenary events programme.

The success of the support provided to Swansea PGRs in preparation for their future
careers is demonstrated by the achievements of our recent postgraduates:

     Stephen Donnachie (2014) works in engagement support at Swansea. He remains
     research active and is due to publish his thesis as a book with Routledge

     Hannah Thomas (2015) works as the Special Collections Manager and Research
     Fellow at Bar Convent, York
     Nicolo D’Alconzo (2015) is a Lecturer at the University of Exeter
     Carys Howells (2015) and Allyson Edwards (2020) secured teaching posts at
     Warwick University
     Richard Hall (2015) and Gemma Almond (2019) gained positions as lecturers in
     Swansea
     Felicitas Weber (2017) was Research Assistant on a Deutsche
     Forschungsgemeinschaft project at Eberhard Karls Universität Tübingen, and then
     Graduate Assistant at the Research Unit of Islamic Archaeology at Rheinische
     Friedrich Wilhelms Universität Bonn




                                                                                       Page 12
    Elodie Papin (2017) has been appointed ingénieure d’études en analyse de
    sources anciennes on the project ROTULUS ANR, at University of Lorraine, Nancy

    Sam Blaxland (2017) was recruited as the University’s centenary post-doctoral
    research fellow, leading to the publication of Swansea University. Campus and
    Community in a Post-War World (UWP, 2020). He continues to build his profile as a
    modern British political historian and commentator; his expertise featuring in BBC
    coverage of the 2017 and 2019 General Elections.


2.4 Supporting and Promoting Equality and Diversity

Women have been under-represented in the UoA's staff profile, and we have actively sought
to address this issue in the current REF cycle. We have taken action through recent
recruitments, positive action statements and inclusive language in our job descriptions and
adverts, and by promoting career development and leadership activities as detailed earlier.
We ran a British Academy-sponsored training event on Gender Equality and Career
Development in 2014.

We have taken steps to redress the gender imbalance in senior grades. Three of the five
promotions to Chairs in History in the census period were awarded to women, and our ratio
at this level is now 3:4. The University has also sought to address the gender pay gap at
professorial level through abolishing the first three points on the pay scale, where there
were a disproportionate number of women.

In the 2019-2020 academic year, our staff profile showed that 43% were of non-UK
nationality and 18% self-identified as black, Asian or minority ethnic origin. We recognize
that (in common with many other History units) we have further work to do with regard to
our representativeness in respect of these and other protected characteristics. Following
the 2018 publication of Promoting Gender Equality in UK History and Race, Ethnicity and
Equality in UK History by the Royal Historical Society, we commissioned an external review
of our departmental culture and curriculum, and we are acting on its findings introducing,
for example, a new module on black British history. The University also employs an Equality
Team to help facilitate a working environment free from discrimination in which staff can
fulfill their individual potential. The University holds an institutional Athena Swan Silver
Award, and the UoA contributed to preparatory work for a College Bronze submission.

Supporting the wellbeing of staff is a key goal of the twice-yearly Professional
Development Review (PDR) meetings all staff receive. Those who are carers have these
needs embedded into their work plans. All staff have their teaching timetable constructed
around their identified caring responsibilities and Swansea was the first Welsh HEI to join
Employers for Carers (2019) providing a source of support for colleagues with caring
responsibilities across the University. PDR meetings, which take the form of mentoring
rather than appraising, enable staff to discuss their workplace experiences and any
perceived barriers to developing their personal and research goals. We are responsive to
individual needs: three members of staff have transferred to part-time status at their own
request. To ensure their research does not disproportionately suffer, staff returning from



                                                                                    Page 13
sick leave are supported in their phased return to work by having their teaching
responsibilities managed or removed. All staff may request flexible working in accordance
with our Flexible Working Policy.

Supporting staff wellbeing became particularly important during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Equality and diversity considerations were central to the university’s response. PDR
meetings undertaken between March and August 2020 focused on the impact of working
from home, with particular care taken with female researchers and carers. All staff were
encouraged to record the impact of the pandemic on their research so that it can be taken
into account in future promotion applications and professional development reviews.

In line with the 2011 Welsh Language Measure, all staff have a legal right to work through
the medium of Welsh, and the unit has a commitment to supporting Welsh-medium
teaching and research. It secured funding from the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol for a
Welsh-medium PhD studentship on the First World War (completed, 2018) and the creation
of a new lecturing post in 2020. The University offers Welsh-language skills courses to all
staff and 3 staff in History have undertaken formal language training.

For the current REF submission, in line with the University’s Code of Practice and our UoA
Statement of Intent, staff selecting outputs all received mandatory unconscious bias training
and targeted REF-specific training to ensure fairness and transparency.




                                                                                     Page 14
3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Research Income

Our strategic focus on and support for grant capture has led to the UoA winning substantial
external funding for our research this REF period. Since 2014 we have won 57 HESA-
returned research grants. Our total research income (spend) is £2,276,251.43, more than
triple our figure in the last REF cycle. As Section 1 shows, each of our four major
research groups has won a large collaborative research grant.

We have achieved this through a two-pronged strategy: close mentoring of individual staff
to help them identify potential funding sources and develop their ideas; and rigorous internal
peer review of applications in progress.

Notably, we have supported more people within the UoA to secure individual awards thus
ensuring income levels are more sustainable and not dependent on a few researchers.
Alongside the collaborative project grants highlighted in Section 1, individual successes
include:

 Examples            5-year Wellcome Lectureship in the History of Medicine (Metzler,
 of awards           £188,158, 2014-2019), now converted to a permanent position
 supporting          Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship (Power, £94,817)
 individual
 scholarship         Leverhulme Trust Research Fellowship (Halikowski Smith,
                     £48,584)
                     Leverhulme Trust Research Fellowship (Clifford, £39,297)

                     Wellcome grant to support our 'Resilience' work (Bresalier,
                     £11,000)
                     Rhys Davies Trust award for research in Welsh history
                     (£121,809).
                     6 Small Research Grants from the British Academy

We have also looked beyond traditional academic funders and invested in support for
impact. Heritage Lottery funding (£58,200) was secured for the Legacy of Longfields
Project and a further £80,711 for the 21st Century Reverberations project, restoring the
unique industrial heritage of the Lower Swansea Valley including the Musgrave Engine.
Collaboration with the Jewish Small Communities Network in 2020 resulted in a joint award
from the Heritage Fund of £72,200.

3.2 Infrastructure

These successes owe much to the infrastructure support put in place by the University
and the College of Arts and Humanities (COAH). Colleagues can draw upon the knowledge
and expertise of professional services staff (including a Bid Writer on-site in COAH) and
strategic networking available in the Research Innovation and Engagement Services
Hubs. Hub staff identify external funding opportunities and work with academics to build


                                                                                      Page 15
bids. They run local briefing events for specific schemes, and publicize University-level
sandpits and town meetings with major funders.

The College also has a wider infrastructure to support and finance research. Its Research
Support Fund makes awards of up to £1,500 p.a. to individual researchers to undertake
archive visits, present at conferences, and to host exploratory meetings ahead of larger-
scale collaborations. Staff are able to apply for these funds on an annual basis and the
awards have been central to enabling the diverse range of monographs and research
articles submitted as outputs to this REF. Research centres and groups also received up to
£1,500 p.a. to fund external speakers and other activities. The College administers a
HEFCW fund to support the publication of scholarly monographs on Welsh culture, history
and literature that might otherwise not be commercially viable. This has supported
publications by six members of the UoA since 2014. COAH also runs an annual ‘Research
across Boundaries’ conference, to promote and showcase collaborative work. The College
Impact Fund, and the support of a dedicated College Impact Officer, enables researchers
to develop potential impact pathways from the start of their research.

During the census period, the University offered a competitive Research Grant Enabler
scheme (SURGE): 7 members of the UoA secured £21,391 of SURGE seed-corn funding,
leading to networking events and large-scale grant applications. For example, Hussein was
supported to develop the 'metals, communities and identity' initiative, and Langlands held a
collaborative workshop with external stakeholders to explore connections between History,
Heritage and Wellbeing. Our expertise in the co-creation of historical knowledge with
marginalized groups was used to secure £2.6million of external funds for the Awen Institute
project (see Section 1.2).

In addition to the College Impact Fund, the University offers its own larger Research Impact
Fund, which supported Pollard’s pilot project for a GIS database of Second World War
Monuments, Fine Arts and Archives Sub-Commission information on heritage sites. This
informs the development of contemporary cultural resource inventories, such as those
currently in preparation by the UK Government and armed forces to fulfil their obligations
under the recently ratified 1954 Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in
the Event of Armed Conflict.

The creation of a dedicated Heritage Office by COAH has greatly enhanced our ability to
work with local groups and to communicate the rich heritage of the Swansea region and
beyond to a broad and diverse audience. It provides invaluable administrative support and
manages and fosters relationships with local groups and other stakeholders. The Heritage
Office also provides opportunities for current graduate students to gain professional
expertise, as well as running sandpit events that put researchers in touch with external
groups.

The Arts and Humanities Cultural Institute supports a range of high-profile public
engagement activities, including acting as a Hub for the AHRC’s ‘Being Human’ Festival
since 2015. In the 2017 Festival, we used our work on disability and disfigurement to partner
with the Changing Faces charity in a photographic competition which attracted over 200
entries. In addition, the University’s Research as Art competition offers an innovative route


                                                                                     Page 16
to communicating research and has seen three winning entries from the UoA. History also
supports the engagement activities of other units within the University. For example, Mosley
works with the Oriel Science outreach project and has organized family activities at the
annual Swansea Science Festival.

3.3 Facilities

Public engagement opportunities have been further enhanced through the creation of a new
flexible exhibition and public space, Taliesin Create. In 2018, for example, it was used
to host MEMO’s annual symposium, CRAM’s public lectures, workshops by our visiting
professors, and an exhibition on disability history.

Research is further fostered by access to the unique archive collections held by the
University and a rich and diverse Library provision:


                    The University’s Egypt Centre home to an internationally significant
                    collection of over 5,000 ancient items, provides a unique research
                    resource for visiting scholars from across the globe and for the new
                    material culture research group, OLCAP.



                    The Richard Burton Archives holds over 1.3km of material of
                    regional and national significance including the papers of Raymond
                    Williams and Richard Burton, which both attract international
                    researchers. Its acquisition of materials relating to steel have been
                    key to Miskell’s AHRC project exploring the industry.


                    The South Wales Coalfield Collection was founded in 1969 to
                    preserve the records and memories of disappearing mining
                    communities. Acknowledged as an internationally important
                    research resource, its material was critical for the Wellcome-funded
                    Disability and Industrial Society project and the Rhys Davies Trust
                    Fellowship, based in the archive.


The University continues to invest in its physical archival holdings, with newspaper
clipping collections a particular focus. The UK Labour Party Newspaper Cuttings
collection is a unique, indexed bank of twentieth-century newspaper articles, the content of
which goes well beyond what is available digitally. Alongside this, indexed newspaper
collections assembled by BBC Wales and S4C have been deposited at the University within
the census period, cementing Swansea’s ability to support a wide range of research using
twentieth-century news media, as well as supporting future landmark projects, notably a
new partnership with National Museum Wales and BBC Wales to explore the latter’s
centenary in 2023.

The three specialist archivists and three archive assistants who maintain these collections,
along with the four arts and humanities librarians and the University’s head of special


                                                                                    Page 17
collections (Sian Williams) are integral to our research culture. They contribute to
conferences, seminars and the provision of postgraduate skills training, and they run a
research blog and write research guides to support staff and student research.

In addition, the College of Arts and Humanities has invested in creating on-line historical
resources for use by our researchers and the wider research community. It has signed a
Memorandum of Understanding with the National Library of Wales to support its digital
humanities and digitisation work. Investment in digital humanities archive and library staff
has facilitated the cataloguing and digital dissemination of research materials generated by
the UoA such as the student newspapers and the oral interviews captured for the Swansea
University Centenary History project. The University also continues to invest in major
commercial digital archives that support research. Acquisitions in the census period include
Picture Post Historical Archive, Popular Culture in Britain and America, 1950-1975 and
Migration to New Worlds.




                                                                                    Page 18
4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

Our research centres are our key platforms for establishing international networks for
interdisciplinary research. KYKNOS has members from the UK, Europe, USA and Japan.
MEMO participates in the CARMEN European medieval network. CRAM was a partner in a
bid in 2019 (led by Stockholm University) for a six-year Program Grant to finance a project
entitled: ‘Cultural Transmission and the Resilience of Everyday Militarism: Historical
Perspectives and Contemporary Challenges in Europe’.

Individual members of the UoA are also engaged in international collaborations. For
example:

      Herrmann is part of an international team editing the ancient Greek text of Plato and
       its later emendations for OUP
      Knoblauch is part of the Uronarti Regional Archaeological Project, a collaboration
       between Swansea and Brown University, Rhode Island, under the aegis of the
       National Corporation of Museums and Antiquities, Sudan
      Stevens is Foreign Collaborator on a project on medieval communal towns in the
       European peripheries, holding the Ulam Fellowship at Nicolas Copernicus
       University, Torun
      Metzler and Turner are members of the International Advisory Board for the
       ‘Disability before Disability’ project, University of Iceland
      Bresalier acted as a consultant on the World Health Organization’s World Vision
       Report
      Dunnage and Laucht initiated an international network on ‘Militarization of the
       Everyday in Europe since 1945’, in collaboration with the universities of Leeds,
       Bremen, Stockholm and Tampere, and the Campaign Against Arms Trade

Through hosting visitors and staff exchanges, Swansea historians build relationships that
translate into research projects. Dr Mercedes del Cura Gonzales was funded by Universidad
Castilla La Mancha in May 2015 to spend six weeks at Swansea to collaborate with
researchers on the Disability and Industrial Society project. MEMO and MHRC co-hosted
Professor Wendy Turner (Augusta) as Leverhulme Visiting Professor (2019, awarded
£48,000); and Dr Bianca Frohne (Kiel) as DFG Visiting Fellow (2020).

We were active throughout the period in contributing time and expertise to organising and
hosting conferences, including those of the British Society for Sports History (2015) and
British Society for the History of Science (2015). Other major conferences held at Swansea
included ‘Disease and Disability in the Premodern Period’ (2016); and ‘Perspectives on
Student Mental Health’ (2019). KYKNOS organised the annual UWICAH colloquium in
2015. Halikowski Smith collaborated with Warwick University to organise a conference on
Crossroads of Asia in 2016. May convened panels and workshops at international critical
heritage meetings ICOMOS (Delhi, 2017) and ACHS (Hangzhou, 2018).




                                                                                    Page 19
4.2 Contributions to the Research Base

As a scholarly community we make a significant contribution to the collective work of
ensuring the quality and sustainability of historical research across the discipline both
nationally and internationally. Seven members of UoA serve on the AHRC Peer Review
College. As well as UKRI, we have provided peer review for the Canadian Research
Council; Commonwealth Scholarship Commission; Deutscher Akademischer Austausch-
Dienst; ESRC, Irish Research Council; Flemish Research Council, Belgium; Israel Science
Foundation; UK government’s Cultural Protection Fund; and SPARC Academic Advisory
Board; Swiss National Science Foundation and Research Board; and Wellcome Trust.

We have peer-reviewed for over 40 journals and assessed 29 book manuscripts for 14
publishers. We have judged Essay Prizes for the Society for Renaissance Studies; History
Today and German History, the Prix Auschwitz, and Cambridge University’s Archbishop
Cranmer Prize and Lightfoot Scholarship competition. We served in editorial roles for
book series (Studies in History and the Society for Renaissance Studies) and journals (Sport
in History, Social History of Medicine, Urban History, Welsh History Review and
Denbighshire Historical Society Transactions).

We examined 23 UK and 10 international doctoral theses. We have undertaken
committee and trustee work for the Royal Historical Society; History UK; Learned Society
of Wales; Society for Renaissance Studies; British Society for the History of Science; British
Society for Sports History; Society for the Study of French History; Society for the Social
History of Medicine; Canadian Association of Slavists; German Association for Historical
Peace and Conflict Research; and Society for Post-Medieval Archaeology.

We take responsibility for the curation and preservation of sources. Humphries co-
edits Translated Texts for Historians and Mosley contributes to the Mellon Foundation-
funded Cultures of Knowledge database, Early Modern Letters Online. We contribute our
expertise to external archival projects: Miskell is President of the South Wales Record
Society; Power serves on the Editorial Board of the Pipe Roll Society; and Langlands is a
founding patron of the Heritage Crafts Association. We supported successful bids by
Glamorgan Archives, Gwent Archives and the Richard Burton Archives for Wellcome Trust
funding to catalogue and digitize medical history records, the photographic archive of
Raissa Page, and the Motorway Archives.

We also make a significant contribution to future sustainability through helping to shape
pathways into the discipline from school age upwards. The devolved political context in
Wales has created particular opportunities for our historians to influence public debate
through participation in government advisory activities. Johnes has provided evidence
and feedback on history in the new Welsh national curriculum to the Curriculum Reform
Division of Welsh Government; the Senedd (Welsh Parliament) Culture, Welsh Language
and Communications Committee; and briefing sessions for Senedd staff and elected
members. Bracke also worked with Welsh Government, advising on the use of ancient




                                                                                      Page 20
languages to promote literacy in primary schools in advance of the launch of the new
national curriculum.

In the last six months of this REF cycle, which coincided with the first wave of the COVID-
19 pandemic in the UK, researchers in our UoA trialled new forms of dissemination and
engagement work. In June 2020, Pretzler and her PhD student launched an online seminar
series on ‘Myths and Politics’ with a linked YouTube channel. In July 2020, Miskell used
Twitter as the platform for a two-day international academic conference, ‘Shaped by Steel’,
involving a multi-disciplinary line-up of speakers from six different countries.

While the social restrictions imposed by the pandemic have challenged us to find new ways
of fulfilling our mission of conducting public-facing and impactful research, they have also
inspired us to be creative and to adapt quickly to changing circumstances. Our research
environment will continue to evolve in response to changing conditions, ensuring its
resilience and sustainability for the future.

4.3 Relationships with Users

Users of, and beneficiaries from, our research include schools, media organizations,
government committees, community groups and heritage bodies.

Engagement work with schools is critical to our work. As part of Visions of Steel, we ran
history-themed art workshops for Sandfields Comprehensive School pupils in collaboration
with West Glamorgan Archives Service. Legacy of Longfields developed a partnership with
Pen y Bryn School to allow pupils with disabilities the opportunity to volunteer on a public
history project on special education, validating their own experiences of schooling by
enabling them to see what life was like for pupils in the past. We have delivered research-
informed classes to pupils at both Welsh- and English-medium primary and
secondary schools. One collaboration explored local heritage sites with important links to
Massachusetts and was funded by the British Association for American Studies (BAAS),
supported by the US Embassy, London. There has been a sustained project of promoting
Classics in schools, locally and throughout Wales. Launched with initial support from
COAH, this developed through a series of funded initiatives, including a literacy through
Classics programme in local schools, a teaching-placement UG module, and ‘Languages in
the Park’, which became the annual Swansea summer school in ancient languages.

Producing research-led public history is at the heart of our work. Swansea stands out for
its staff's active work with television and radio. Langlands presented Digging Up
Britain’s Past (2019), Britain at Low Tide (2016), Victorian Bakers (2016), and Full Steam
Ahead (2016). Bresalier was an on-air commentator on the BBC documentary, The Flu that
Killed 50 Million (2018). Johnes was commissioned to write and present a BBC two-part
television documentary, Wales: England's Colony? (2019), and a set of accompanying
podcasts. The series also featured Cavell and Miskell, and thus gave a platform for female
voices in what has been a male-dominated medium. Johnes also wrote and presented a
2019 Radio 4 documentary on Welsh nationalism and a 2017 Radio 3 lecture on writing
history. His work on Christmas traditions led to a 2015 media collaboration with Disney



                                                                                    Page 21
Corporation, generating publicity valued at £513,692 and reaching 11.1million people. The
First World War centenary saw Matthews make numerous contributions to Radio Cymru,
Radio Wales and S4C. Staff offer political and historical commentary: Blaxland is a regular
pundit on BBC Wales politics outputs and Laucht is a frequent contributor to the syndicated
German news agency, Regiocast.

Our research is also improving the quality and range of historical knowledge in popular
print and online. The BBC History and History Today magazines and podcasts have
featured work by Anderson, Clifford, Crook, John, Johnes, Laucht, Pollard and Szpakowska.
In 2015 the Women Negotiating the Boundaries of Justice team ran the first Wikipedia
editathon in Wales to focus on medieval and early modern women. As a result, they
were invited to write a blog for Wikimedia on running the editathon and women in Wikipedia
as a model for future academic engagement with the resource. Johnes has produced a
number of historical essays for the BBC Wales website. Matthews created an online map
and database of Great War chapel memorials.

Such media contributions have enabled us to inform public debates. Our commitment to this
is evident in our fast response to emerging issues. In the first months of COVID-19,
Bresalier and Laucht wrote online op-eds for History and Policy. Simon John used his work
on historical monument building to offer UK radio, podcast and newspaper commentary on
the Colston statue incident and its aftermath. Our contributions to public debate and
knowledge are furthered by the University’s partnership with the Hay Festival. The
festival has included both individual researchers from Swansea and panels consisting of
Swansea historians.

The embedded nature of impact and engagement in our research is illustrated by
Szpakowska’s Demonology project, whose funding supported public lectures (in the UK
and USA), object handling sessions, an open-access online database now sustained by
follow-on funding from the University, a conference, and engagement through various
social media platforms. Work to strengthen this commitment continues as we further
develop existing, and foster new, collaborations. Beyond those collaborations detailed
in our impact case studies, our research on steel industry history includes working with
industrial heritage professionals from specialist museums in Britain and Europe, on how
best to interpret and represent the social impact of the industry on communities in Wales.
Our reputation in public history and memory work has led to consultation work for the
Jewish Small Communities Network, partnering their successful Heritage Fund bid
Connecting Small Histories.

Swansea’s historians work closely with national heritage organizations in Wales. A
series of successful events and exhibitions co-produced with the National Waterfront
Museum has led to a formal Memorandum of Understanding signed with Amgueddfa
Cymru/National Museum Wales. Closer collaboration with institutions across the National
Museum group is fostered through the participation of Turner, Langlands and May in a
steering group that informs areas ranging from collection strategy to advising on uses for
the new craft galleries at St Fagans National Museum of History.




                                                                                   Page 22
Strong, reciprocal relationships with local heritage partners and community groups
sustain our impact work. Our expertise in commemoration of conflict has informed events
to mark the centenary of the Great War, including supporting a HLF project with a local
chapel, undertaking research for the national Pages of the Sea armistice commemoration,
and creating an exhibition to run alongside a major immersive theatrical, Now the Hero. In
2014, we continued our partnership with the Swansea City Supporters’ Trust that created
an online archive of the club’s history by researching players who had died in the First World
War. The Trust erected a memorial plaque at the stadium and the club published articles by
Swansea historians in its match programme.

4.4 Further Contributions to the Economy and Society

The work of empowering local communities, by giving them a clearer sense that their
stories are valued and form part of public heritage for future generations, is central to our
industrial heritage work and partnership with disability organizations and aligns with wider
HEFCW civic mission priorities.

Our research projects have not just raised awareness of the past, but also provided training
opportunities for members of the public, helping them to record their memories and
experiences and act as co-producers of historical research:

 Research          Berry and Harrison secured a £15,000 HEFCW grant for ‘The Ancient World
 projects with     on Film’, a collaboration with professional filmmakers, and local community
 training          groups on four, research-based films. Partners included ‘Unity through
                   Diversity’, a charity that works with refugees.
 opportunities
 for
 participants      Langlands led community archaeological excavations at Salisbury that
                   provided training to volunteers and helped locals to uncover the history of
                   their community


                   The Legacy of Longfields project trained 6 volunteers to undertake oral
                   history research, and we held a digitization training day in collaboration with
                   People’s Collection Wales for 9 participants

                   We provided historical advice to two external HLF projects on the history of
                   Welsh hospitals: Memories of St David’s Hospital (West Wales Action on
                   Mental Health, 2016-17) and A Mental Picture: Celebrating the History of
                   Cefn Coed Hospital 1931-2018 (ABMU Health Board, 2017-18)




We continue to work on forging new external partnerships, especially in the creative
industries. This has grown out of the AHRC funded Connected Communities project (2013-
15), and utilizes the arts and heritage to empower poorer communities and to promote
wellbeing and identity. The Demonology project included a collaboration with a
dancer/choreographer, while in 2019 Kaite O’Reilly was awarded the University’s first
Creativity Fellowship to produce new writing and theatrical performances on Disability in the
Industrial Revolution: Hidden Histories. Further opportunity to engage and co-produce
impactful research is provided via the University’s Creative Industries Network. Members
include groups such as Disability Arts Cymru, who have collaborated with Swansea



                                                                                            Page 23
historians to deliver workshops to explore the history of disabled people’s experiences
through creative expression.

Such collaborations illustrate how we anticipate, and align strongly with, UKRI research
priorities in Heritage and Care for the Future. Historians at Swansea use their research
to help communities and individuals understand and benefit from their pasts. This
happens through the media, community co-production and co-operation and the creation of
public resources. Across all periods, and on a local and global level, Swansea's historians
are making a difference through their research.




                                                                                   Page 24
