Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University College London (UCL)

 Unit of Assessment: 14 (Geography and Environmental Studies)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context
 UCL Geography is distinguished by the diversity in breadth and scale of its research and the global
 scope of its expertise and collaborative links (Fig. 1). Our mission is to produce outstanding
 research and to translate this into impact beyond academia, framed by UCL’s global perspective
 and commitment to the beneficial application of knowledge, and our vision of Geography as a
 discipline that cuts across the boundaries between the natural and social sciences and humanities.
                                                          Over the REF cycle, we have undertaken
                                                          research across six continents and four
                                                          oceans, engaged in global partnerships,
                                                          led international consortia, assumed key
                                                          roles in interdisciplinary initiatives,
                                                          increased our annual income by a factor of
                                                          2.4, won 4 ERC grants, published 27
                                                          books, 33 edited books, 1410 articles and
                                                          book chapters, and delivered impact on
                                                          environmental and societal issues.
                                                           Underpinning these achievements is a
 Fig. 1 UCL Geography research sites over the
                                                           distinctive culture of inclusivity in people
 current REF cycle.                                        and subject matter and a commitment to
 the integrity of the academic vocation as a genuine balance between research and teaching. To
 this end: (i) we support and encourage a diversity of styles and scales of research, from individual
 scholarship to large collaborative networks; (ii) we champion interdisciplinarity and open and
 engaged research from the local to the global scale; (iii) we have research strength throughout the
 Department, balanced across physical and human geography; (iv) we invest in our staff with open-
 ended research-teaching contracts, avoiding hierarchical workloads where teaching is allocated
 inequitably. Teaching-only contracts are only used to cover research fellowships, maternity leave
 or sickness; (v) we have embedded the values of Equality, Diversity and Inclusion to ensure best
 practice across the Department. This culture permeates a research environment that is stimulating
 and collegiate, providing a platform for outstanding achievement by all academic staff.
 The UoA includes all 48 permanent academic staff and 6 independent researchers of UCL
 Geography, with Roseneil from the Institute of Advanced Studies (IAS) and Kelman from the
 Institute for Risk and Disaster Reduction. Unless otherwise stated, strategies and achievements
 discussed in this document refer to UCL Geography.


 1.2 Structure
 Research within the Department is organised around seven thematic clusters (Fig. 2):
 The Palaeoclimate cluster combines reconstructions of marine and terrestrial environments with
 state-of-the-art climate modelling to explore climate changes and ecosystem responses on
 timescales from tectonic to historical, and to contribute towards a theoretical framework of long-
 term climate change. Work informs new perspectives on recent changes in Atlantic Ocean
 circulation, on carbon dynamics, on past warm periods as a basis for comparison with the present
 interglacial and its future evolution, and on the concept of the Anthropocene.
 The Environmental Change and Biodiversity (ECB) cluster examines the drivers and impacts
 of environmental and biodiversity change. Work includes conducting long-term chemical and
 biological monitoring and using natural archives to reconstruct pressures and responses in both
 terrestrial and aquatic systems, informing policy and conservation practice. Members have been
 involved in the discovery of large previously unrecognised peatlands in central Africa and are
 central to the science behind the formal proposal for the Anthropocene Epoch.

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Environmental Modelling and Observation (EMO) cluster combines modelling of present
 and future Earth System dynamics with observations and methods. EMO research has provided
 insights into the resilience of groundwater resources in the tropics, contributed to new international
 satellite missions and policy activities to monitor tropical forests and climate, led to award-winning
 crop yield forecasting tools, pioneered new understanding of tree structure and function, identified
 new atmospheric pollution sources and sinks, and underpinned models capturing the impacts of
 climate change on geomorphic, hydrological and ecological systems.
 The Global Urbanism cluster has made leading contributions to global urban studies through
 developing novel comparative methodologies, as well as Global South and regionally-grounded
 approaches. Analyses of urban infrastructure, verticality, gender, smart cities and housing, the
 politics of large-scale urban developments, as well as sustainability politics and policy, across a
 range of different contexts (India, Mexico, Tanzania, South Africa, China, UK), demonstrate the
 benefits of a global perspective for urban studies.
 The Culture and Migration cluster combines interests in socio-cultural and historical geographies
 with specialisms in international migration, refugee studies, diaspora culture and postcolonialism.
 Members are united by an interest in the meanings, practices and critical theorisations of culture,
 social justice and radical politics. It undertakes methodologically innovative and socially engaged
 analyses of southern humanitarianism, international education, transnational housing, creative
 citizenship, sonic and literary cultures, and the poetics and politics of belonging.
 The Environment, Politics and Society (EPS) cluster focuses on government, policy and
 practice across diverse fields including climate, energy, health, marine ecosystems, cities,
 diplomacy, war and security, and major citizen science initiatives. Taking up defining geographical
 concerns with materialities, and with interrelations between nature, the environment and social
 and political life, the group has made theoretical advances in our understanding of the
 Anthropocene and 'the event', as well as policy impacts, notably in marine planning.
 The Geospatial Analytics and Computing (GSAC) cluster focuses on the adoption, deployment
 and use of geographic information technologies to understand the form and functioning of society
 today. Through methodological innovations in data management and analysis, it leads initiatives
 in core computer science, applied spatial analysis and geovisualisation, with contributions to policy
 areas including consumer behaviour, demographic change and movement in cities.
 Physical Geography clusters are associated with our Environmental Change Research Centre
 (ECRC), while the Culture and Migration
 cluster is linked to the Migration
 Research Unit (MRU). GSAC hosts the
 UCL-led part of the ESRC Consumer
 Data      Research     Centre  (CDRC)
 consortium. The Department is involved
 in interdisciplinary UCL initiatives,
 including the UCL Urban Laboratory,
 the Environment Domain, the Global
 Governance Institute, and has led or
 contributed to a number of IAS
 initiatives: Refuge in a Moving World
 (RiMW), African Studies Research
 Centre (ASRC), Centre for the Study of
 South Asia and the Indian Ocean World
 (CSSAIOW), and the Sarah Parker
 Remond Centre for the Study of Racism
 and      Racialisation   (SPRC).   The
 Department has close links with the
 Alan Turing Institute, (the national
 institute for data science) and has a
 central role in the UCL Anthropocene Fig. 2 UCL Geography clusters and research centres
 initiative (Fig. 2).                    (green) and relation to initiatives at UCL and beyond.


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research oversight: Departmental research structures are coordinated by the Research
 Committee, chaired by the Director of Research, and comprising the Head of Department, the
 Departmental Manager, the Impact Coordinator and cluster leads. The Committee articulates the
 overall Departmental research strategy and supports impact activities emerging from research
 clusters. Within our Faculty of Social & Historical Sciences (SHS), we collaborate closely with the
 Dean (Roseneil) and Vice-Dean for Research (Burningham), the Joint Faculties Research Office
 (JFRO) and the Office of the Vice-Provost for Research (OVPR). Our doctoral programme is
 overseen by the Departmental Graduate Tutor and supported by the UCL Doctoral School.


 1.3 Research strategy
 Our strategic aims are to be internationally pre-eminent in geographical research, to cross
 boundaries between disciplines, and to deliver impact for public benefit. UCL’s Research Strategy
 empowers Faculties and Departments to develop their own research agendas, while fully
 exploiting the advantages of institutional support and extensive interdisciplinary initiatives.
 In our REF2014 submission, we set the following objectives:
 Develop a long-term research strategy: (i) near the start of the REF cycle, we invested in early
 career academics of exceptional talent (Thornalley, Fiddian-Qasmiyeh, Cheshire), whom we have
 subsequently promoted internally (section 2.1). Their work has been recognised by individual
 awards and prizes (section 4.6); (ii) we focused staffing and resources on areas of research with
 significant scope for success in funding and research impact (Big Data [GSAC cluster], Citizen
 Science [EPS cluster], Earth Observation [EMO cluster]).
 Boost research income and infrastructure: (i) we enhanced mechanisms for generating
 research income by rigorously planning and peer reviewing applications, providing in-house expert
 administrative assistance, exploiting UCL pump-priming funding, and placing a strong emphasis
 on European and strategic funding, in addition to blue-skies research (sections 3.1, 4.1); (ii) UCL
 made a substantial investment (£800K) in our state-of-the-art laboratories and high-performance
 computing facilities (section 3.3).
 Strengthen research student recruitment: (i) we expanded UKRI studentships: UCL Geography
 set up and leads the London NERC DTP (Director Maslin, Deputy Director Thornalley) a ten-year
 collaboration between nine institutions (UCL, Birkbeck, Brunel, Kew, Kings, IOZ, NHM, Queen
 Mary, Royal Holloway) and 180 external stake-holder partners. The DTP has currently supported
 over 255 four-years PhD studentships of which 24 have been hosted by the Department. We are
 on the board of the UCL, Bloomsbury and East London ESRC DTP, leading the Human
 Geography pathway; (ii) we developed PhD-student pipelines via our undergraduate and MSc
 courses. Our intense undergraduate research training has led to 27 national dissertation prizes,
 with 13 of our undergraduates going directly to a PhD in the Department. Our MSc courses,
 aligned with research cluster agendas, have provided an important pathway for 69 students to
 pursue a PhD in the Department during the census period.
 Promote a thriving research environment: (i) we expanded our interdisciplinary research by
 assuming key roles in new UCL initiatives (section 1.5); (ii) we strengthened the role of research
 clusters to review grant proposals and manuscripts, and to discuss research plans in termly
 meetings; (iii) we provided £1000 annual allocation per staff member to facilitate research activities
 and conference attendance; (iv) we expanded our lectures and seminars series. A pervasive
 culture of seminars adds to the vitality of our research community: we host weekly seminars in
 Physical Geography, in Human Geography, in Palaeoclimate, and in Remote Sensing. UCL
 Geography co-leads, with the Institute of Historical Research, the Metropolitan History
 Seminars. We play an active role in the London Ocean Group and the London Urban Salon,
 organising meetings across London institutions. We have established and funded two annual
 public lectures, inviting leading scientists to UCL: (i) the Rick Battarbee Lecture Series
 (speakers: Sherilyn Fritz, Dick Wright, Alistair Seddon, Eric Wolff, Georgina Mace, Melanie Leng)
 and (ii) in association with the Institute of Archaeology, the UCL Lecture on Climate and Human
 History (speakers: Bill Ruddiman, Juan Luis Arsuaga, Eske Willerslev, Jared Diamond, Robin
 Dennell, Katerina Harvati), which has attracted large audiences from across London and beyond.


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Taken together, these initiatives have
                                                    Table 1 Outputs and annual grant income
 contributed to a dynamic intellectual
 environment and have laid the foundations for      between the previous and current REF.
 a sustainable future. Compared to the                                REF2014         REF2021
 previous REF cycle, our research income
                                                                     (2008-2013)     (2014-2020)
 increased substantially (Table 1), to a total of
 ~£22.5M. Our output production has also            Books                  19              27
 increased with significant contributions           Edited books           14              33
 including 27 books, 33 edited books and 55         Chapters             149              221
 articles in the Nature and Science families of     Journal articles     705            1183
 journals.
                                                    Grant income         1.33            3.21
 Future research strategy: Our aim is to            (£M/year)
 sustain our culture of inclusivity in people and
 diversity in our research. We will further strengthen the role of clusters as centres of research
 activity and mentoring and provide funds to enable the delivery of research support and networking
 through seminars and meetings. To this end, we will formally recognise the role that cluster leaders
 play in our workload model. We will work to better integrate Early Career Researchers (ECRs)
 and PhD students into our enhanced clusters, ensuring a diverse pipeline of talent into the
 discipline. Our intention is to have a non-hierarchical learning community, empowering ECRs and
 PhD students to lead cluster activities when appropriate. We will also establish Summer Grant
 Writing Workshops for ECRs to introduce a comprehensive approach to planning a research
 proposal that embeds research design, impact and public engagement.
 We are also committed to maintaining and enhancing our outstanding infrastructure and facilities,
 providing financial support for our successful lecture series, and continuing to play a leading role
 in interdisciplinary centres across UCL.
 In addition, our future research strategy is informed by the evolving landscape in the discipline,
 with an emphasis on fostering interdisciplinarity:
 (1) The Anthropocene: Many aspects of Geography are crucial to understanding the changing
 relationship between humanity and the planet, as global warming pushes the climate envelope
 beyond that experienced by modern humans. We are well-placed to address these
 interdisciplinary problems: our physical geographers are setting the agenda on the definition of
 the Anthropocene (S.Lewis, Mackay, Maslin, Rose), with contributions from human geographers
 (Barry, Jazeel, Randalls). Over the census period, we initiated a cross-departmental dialogue on
 the Anthropocene and have played a central role in establishing the UCL Anthropocene initiative
 (section 1.5), to increase interdisciplinary engagement across UCL.
 (2) Geographic Data Science: The growth of quantitative, digital, and computational sciences
 has created a range of opportunities for geographical research. We are in an excellent position to
 capitalise on this with the appointment of two additional staff and the development of an MSc in
 Social and Geographic Data Science. The Department has sustained a strong tradition in
 quantitative human geography and has strengths in remote sensing and environmental modelling.
 A key objective will be to complement computational and quantitative research with insights from
 ethnographic and historical research, political economy, and social and political theory. The
 Department is playing a leading role in the Faculty’s strategic vision to become a leader in social
 data science by establishing a UCL Social Data Institute (Cheshire).
 These areas of growth will continue to enhance our inclusive vision of Geography as a discipline
 that cuts across boundaries.
 Key risks and opportunities: With the likely economic consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic,
 the future funding landscape is increasingly uncertain. We therefore need to identify the areas
 where we are well positioned to pursue strategic funding and to diversify our funding sources. We
 will explore bilateral research opportunities such as the UKRI Global Challenges Research Fund
 / Newton Fund and the UKRI-US NSF Memorandum of Understanding. We will also seek to build
 on our track record of attracting funding from EU Horizon, NASA, the European Space Agency
 (ESA) and other organisations.


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.4 Impact
 UCL Geography has a long history of encouraging and enabling research that generates and
 achieves impact for international and national governments, agencies, industries, commerce,
 organisations, local communities, and vulnerable groups. We have: (i) delivered specialist
 knowledge and advice; (ii) developed and provided data products and tools; and (iii) raised public
 awareness of and participation in, environmental, cultural and political issues. Our impact case
 studies reflect our commitment to a diversity of styles and scales of research and to the beneficial
 application of knowledge beyond academia.
 Over the census period, we have articulated a strong mission to encourage pathways to impact:
 (1) Structural support
  Department support: we established a new Departmental Impact Coordinator (IC) (Rose) who
     has: (i) supported the integration of impact-generation activities within existing projects; (ii)
     identified future impact growth areas in collaboration with heads of research clusters; and (iii)
     advised on monitoring and curation of impact activities.
  Institutional support: we worked closely with UCL Research Impact Managers to develop
     impact. We have attracted institutional funding from the Beacon Bursaries (Nold, Greaves)
     and OVPR’s Research Impact Curation and Support to: (i) organise pond restoration events
     in Norfolk (Sayer); (ii) contribute to NGO training guidelines on faith and humanitarian response
     to refugees (Fiddian-Qasmiyeh); (iii) investigate how our research in the Congo basin
     translates to policy reform, development projects and environmental activism (S.Lewis).
  Research council support: we secured NERC Impact Accelerator funding to explore new
     pathways to impact, including successfully establishing: (i) the UCL Norfolk Ponds Partnership
     (Sayer); (ii) the UCL Aquatic Restoration Partnership (Bennion, Sayer); (iii) an iOS app to help
     wetland managers assess the impacts of climate change (Thompson).
 (2) Training and sharing of best practice
  We have initiated Departmental Impact Open Days for our staff to showcase our impact
     activities and to share best practice in the identification of impact opportunities in research
     activities and the integration of impact within future research plans.
  Research impact training is delivered to our PhD students at both the Departmental and
     institutional level. For example: (i) UCL Train and Engage sessions, which include training for
     research students in public engagement, and an opportunity to apply for £1000 funding to run
     public engagement projects aligned with PhD research (Slatter, Taylor); (ii) an annual UCL
     Geography Public Engagement event; and (iii) research students within the London NERC
     DTP are encouraged to undertake internships and secondments to develop impact and engage
     with policy; five of our PhD students have been seconded to the Tropical Biology Association,
     Willis Towers Watson, PBA Applied Ecology and Defra.
  Impact activities now form part of Departmental annual staff reviews and are recognised in
     the criteria for academic promotion and salary increments.
 Our future impact strategy focuses on impact growth by: (1) promoting a Departmental research
 culture in which impact is highly valued, and (2) maximising institutional investment in research /
 research-led teaching to shape the future of impact. Through Department-focused Impact Days,
 we will build on the experience of our well-established activities in public engagement, knowledge
 exchange, and delivering data and tools, and we will explore new ways of embedding, integrating,
 and realising impact. Institutionally, our connections to UCL East (UCL’s enterprise, innovation
 and engagement focused expansion in east London) over the next 5 years will create new roles
 (Geography is establishing a postgraduate programme in Citizen Science) and opportunity (space,
 resource, and collaboration) that support our plans to take a leading role in defining and
 understanding the future of impact.


 1.5 Interdisciplinary research
 During the reporting period, we have pursued a significant expansion in our interdisciplinary
 research by assuming key roles in several initiatives. These have provided opportunities to explore
 new spaces and develop new collaborations.


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (1) We play a leading role in the UCL Urban Laboratory (Arabindoo, Harris, Robinson co-
 Directors), which draws on a wide range of urban expertise across several UCL Faculties. Over
 the reporting period, the Urban Lab hosted international conferences and participated in an
 Erasmus Mundus international network of Urban Labs. Cross-faculty funding and additional grant
 income, as well as an interdisciplinary MSc Urban Studies, hosted in Geography, ensure long term
 sustainability. Well-established external collaborations include the London-wide network in urban
 studies, the Urban Salon.
 (2) We are centrally involved in the UCL collaboration with the Alan Turing Institute, through the
 work of Musolesi, who is the UCL Lead for the Turing, coordinating the engagement of the entire
 UCL community with the Institute. Law recently joined the Department as Lecturer in Social Data
 Science, following an independent Research Fellowship at the Turing. During the REF period, we
 have engaged with the Turing through two funded research projects and three PhD studentships,
 while members of staff in the area of data-driven climate and coastal modelling have participated
 in events in Environmental Data Science organised by the Turing.
 (3) Our physical geographers participate in the UCL Environment Domain, which builds on the
 work of the UCL Environment Institute (initially directed by Maslin). It provides a platform bringing
 together the breadth and depth of environmental expertise at UCL to develop interdisciplinary
 environmental collaborations and partnerships, and to provide development opportunities for early
 career environmental researchers. Brierley is a member of the Advisory Board.
 (4) We founded the new UCL Anthropocene initiative (2020, co-convenor Barry) in the SHS
 Faculty. It draws expertise in Geography, Archaeology and the Environmental Sciences into new
 forms of dialogue with research in History, Anthropology, Political Science, Economics, and
 Sociology. It aims to: (i) contribute academic expertise to UCL’s Sustainability Strategy; (ii)
 develop new interdisciplinary approaches to understanding the history, present state, and future
 of humanity’s impact on the planet; and (iii) intervene in public debate and engage with citizens
 about climate change, sustainability, and the environment.
 (5) The UCL Global Governance Institute undertakes interdisciplinary study across UCL of
 crucial governance ‘deficits’ in order to explore the nature of the problem, the processes, structures
 and institutions involved, and potential solutions. Dittmer was the Global Security thematic director
 and is currently on its Academic Steering Board.
 (6) During the REF cycle, we played a key role in founding the Institute of Advanced Studies in
 2015, with the idea of taking a critical approach to Area Studies. The IAS provides a home to a
 number of initiatives in which UCL geographers have been centrally involved:
  The Centre for the Study of South Asia and the Indian Ocean World (co- founded and
    directed by Jazeel) promotes research and teaching related to the geographical region of South
    Asia and its intersections with the wider world, including the South Asian diaspora. It brings
    together researchers and postgraduate students from SHS and Arts & Humanities Faculties
    and the Institute of Education.
  The African Studies Research Centre serves as a nexus of interaction for research across
    Africa. Collaborations with the Bartlett Development Planning Unit secured seed funding to
    establish a UCL-wide African urban studies network that includes urban and physical
    geographers (Page, Robinson, Taylor, Thieme). Page led the launch (funded by UCL Global
    Challenges) and is on the steering group.
  The Refuge in a Moving World Interdisciplinary Research Network is led by Fiddian-
    Qasmiyeh in collaboration with the UCL Institute of Global Prosperity. It brings together experts
    from across UCL to develop a full understanding of, and a means of responding to, the human,
    material and representational effects of intersecting processes of mass displacement around
    the world.
  The Sarah Parker Remond Centre for the Study of Racism and Racialisation. Jazeel and
    Bressey were on the committee that appointed its Founding Director, Paul Gilroy. Jazeel is on
    the Centre’s Advisory Group and Fiddian-Qasmiyeh, Ingram, Jazeel, Kneale, Latham, Western
    and Wilkin are affiliated staff at the Centre.




                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.6 Open research environment
 The Department’s culture of inclusivity extends to our research users. Our commitment to Open
 Access goes beyond the REF requirements, encouraging authors to deposit all published outputs
 in UCL Discovery, the open access institutional repository: 99.8% of our articles and conference
 papers that were accepted from 1 April 2016 (not only those submitted as REF2 outputs) have
 been deposited in UCL Discovery, are gold open access or qualify for exceptions; 89% comply
 with or have exceptions to the REF open access policy.
 We have published four books (Fiddian-Qasmiyeh, Haklay, Longley, Roseneil) through UCL
 Press, the first fully open access university press in the UK. UCL Press also publishes the journal
 UCL Open: Environment (Brierley is on the editorial board). With Mackay as co-Editor-in-Chief,
 we were involved in founding the RGS-IBG’s open access journal Geo in 2014, which publishes
 original geographical and environmental research articles. We are also leaders in the growth of
 citizen science at UCL, which was core to our impact in REF2014 (Open Air Laboratories Water
 Survey) and continues to be driven through our Extreme Citizen Science research (EPS Cluster).


 1.7 Research integrity
 The Department has played a leading role in the UCL Ethics Review and the development of a
 new Ethics Policy and ethics review process for UCL and the Faculty (Burningham chairs the
 UCL Ethics Review Steering Group, Barry, Page, Varley are all members), and in the generation
 of the new UCL Code of Conduct for Research. The Department has a Research Ethics and
 Integrity committee, which contributes and responds to wider changes in UCL ethics policy,
 considers complex cases, and fosters a culture of ethics and research integrity. All research
 conducted by students, researchers and staff undergoes a rigorous ethical review to ensure it
 conforms with accepted ethical and legal standards regarding data protection, research
 participants rights and consent.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Recruitment and sustainability: Our abiding goal is to attract and develop the highest quality
 academic staff. Alongside turnover (three retirements, five relocations and, tragically, one death),
 the Department academic staff body has grown from 42 to 48 since 2013, comprising 6 Lecturers,
 15 Associate Professors and 27 Professors. Fourteen staff are female (29%), of whom seven are
 professors. Twelve of our staff have international backgrounds. Of 14 new appointments, 10 have
 been of early career academics, representing the foundation of our future submissions.
 Staff development: All new staff follow the UCL induction programme, which includes mandatory
 training in safety, information security and GDPR, unconscious bias training, and green
 awareness. Through the probationary review and annual appraisal system, staff are helped to
 make considered judgements about their research careers, and the appropriate balance between
 different responsibilities. Staff are encouraged to take part in training and personal development
 programmes offered by UCL Organisational Development, take wider roles in UCL in a way that
 contributes to career development. Our submission includes the Faculty Dean and two Vice Deans
 (Research, EDI).
 Appraisals and promotions: We are committed to fair and transparent appraisals and
 promotions. Appraisers are trained and appraisal is carried out annually, in accordance with UCL
 procedures. Appraisals are an opportunity to recognise achievements formally, provide feedback,
 review research objectives, and identify development needs. Staff are encouraged to express an
 interest to the Departmental Promotions Committee, which provides feedback before final
 applications are made to UCL. During the reporting period, academic staff were promoted 33 times
 (64% male, 36% female); there were three unsuccessful attempts (3 male, 0 female).
 Support for early career staff: Newly-appointed staff have low teaching loads in their first year
 and are assigned a mentor. We have created a new post of Tutor for Postdoctoral and Early
 Career Researchers, who arranges meetings with our researchers and organises workshops on
 career development. During the REF period, we have initiated an induction programme specifically

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for Research Staff (over and above that for all new staff) and a Research Staff Colloquium to
 highlight their research.
 Sabbatical leave: All academic staff are entitled to one term of sabbatical leave after every three
 years. Staff who have carried high administrative burden are allowed a 'double sabbatical'. Staff
 returning from maternity leave receive an automatic equity sabbatical that does not impact their
 regular sabbatical. Additional sabbaticals have been authorised to assist early career staff with
 completing a major piece of work.
 Stimulating and facilitating exchanges between academia and business, industry or public
 or third sector bodies: We encourage (through appraisals) and support (through provision of
 facilities) exchanges beyond academia, capitalising on long-established relationships (e.g. NASA,
 ESA, business, local authorities, police forces, NHS Trusts, government agencies). Institutional
 services facilitate exchanges: for example, UCL Consultants have enabled staff to engage with a
 range of commercial ventures across business and third sector bodies, generating a total activity
 of £535,489.
 Incentivising and rewarding research excellence: Our workload model incentivises staff to
 obtain research grants by including credit for managing FEC research grants, equivalent to
 teaching one full-term course. Authors of REF Impact Case Studies were also given credit in the
 workload model. Recognition of Research and Enterprise, and External Engagement (including
 impact) are two of the four principal criteria for academic promotion at UCL. Outstanding research
 and impact may also be rewarded through additional salary increments.


 2.2 Research Students
 Recruitment and studentships: Postgraduate research students (PGRs) are central to our
 research environment. Our PGRs have been funded by Research Council studentships – 27
 ESRC from the UCL ESRC DTC, 24 NERC DTP, including 3 with NERC CASE awards. Three
 students have received an additional year’s funding through UCL Cross-Disciplinary awards. We
 attract excellent students, evidenced by our success in competitive funding from UCL and other
 national and international PhD awards (e.g. CNPq, Talentia, CONICYT).
 Equal opportunities: All PGRs, including those studying part-time, have equal access to space,
 facilities and conference funding. PGRs can take unpaid study leave and are entitled to full
 parental leave.
 Monitoring and support mechanisms: We appoint an experienced member of academic staff
 as Departmental Graduate Tutor (DGT), who will have served as Deputy DGT preceding their
 term. We ensure there is always a mix of a human and physical geographer in the DGT/Deputy
 roles. PGR students have two UCL supervisors who undergo UCL training in research supervision.
 Departmental guidelines provide guidance on good practice. Progress is carefully monitored via
 an online Research Student Log and annual reports. Formal procedures govern upgrading from
 MPhil to PhD status. Mandatory upgrade presentation sessions bring the PhD student cohort and
 staff together in two annual Upgrade Presentation Conferences, which further strengthen our
 research environment. The Department provides an annual fund to support PGR conference
 attendance. The Department has a dedicated Staff-Student Consultative Committee for PGRs.
 New PhD students are supported via a ‘buddy system’ which pairs them with an existing PhD
 student who acts as an informal mentor.
 Skills development and career preparation: We support the career development of doctoral
 students with skills training and teaching experience. Training needs, covering both generic and
 specific skills, are considered on arrival and agreed by supervisor and student. Our PGRs benefit
 from the resources of the UCL Doctoral School, which provides a skills development programme
 with a wide range of modules (devising and managing research projects, preparing for viva,
 teaching and publishing, coping with writer’s block). UCL Arena One is a development pathway
 for postgraduate teaching assistants (PGTA) to begin their teaching careers. It consists of a
 mandatory ‘Gateway’ session, followed by the full, optional Teaching Associate Programme
 (TAP). After attendance of TAP, our PGTAs are encouraged to continue their development and
 are supported in applying for Associate Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy. During the

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 REF period, 105 of our PGRs attended Arena Gateway and 21 Arena TAP. PGRs also have to
 attend a Departmental PGTA training session before they undertake teaching.
 The Department runs a term-long training seminar, introduced in 2015-2016, which includes
 sharing project outlines, developing writing skills, impact, presenting research topics to peers,
 research integrity and information on approaching the upgrade, as well as fostering a sense of
 research community. Additionally, a half-day training event in mid-October each year provides an
 opportunity for new students to meet existing PhD students and staff in the Department. Since
 2016, the Department has run workshops for late-stage students on Careers in Academia and on
 Publishing from the PhD. Students also have access to the UCL Careers service. PGRs are fully
 integrated into the Departmental research environment through participation in the research
 clusters and by organising their own reading groups. Conference presentations are a vital part of
 PGR training and our students present papers at international meetings and also run conferences,
 such as the annual Stadtcolloquium international seminar series. PGRs organise the popular
 Departmental weekly seminars in Palaeoclimate and in Physical Geography.


 2.3 Equality and diversity
 The Department holds the values of Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) to be central to our
 identity and culture. The Department was awarded an Athena Swan (AS) bronze award in 2016
 and is working towards silver. Geography staff (Burningham, Mackay) participate in UCL panels
 to prepare AS applications and serve on the AdvanceHE panel to assess national applications.
 We work closely with the Faculty AS Coordinator, who also participates in our Departmental AS
 meetings.
 Our EDI Committee ensures best practice across the Department for the benefit of all staff and
 students regardless of sex, gender identity, race, sexual orientation, disability, age, religion and
 belief. The Committee has a diverse membership of staff and students that reflects and supports
 the diversity of the Department more broadly. The EDI Committee is co-chaired by Burningham
 and Mackay, who are the first point of contact for individual EDI issues within the Department
 (Burningham and Betts are the Departmental Inclusion Leads). During the reporting period,
 Mackay has been the Faculty EDI Vice-Dean, co-chaired the Faculty EDI Strategic Board and the
 Gender Working Group, and has been a member of the UCL Equality Charters Group that
 oversees development of institutional charter marks, Race Equality charter, AS and the Provost’s
 Inclusion Forum that monitors implementation of the new UCL EDI Strategy.
 Our EDI Committee raises awareness of diversity and equality issues in the Department and
 provides advice and training when necessary. The Committee ensures that UCL’s EDI Strategy
 and Race Equality Charters, and Faculty Equality Action Plans are implemented in the
 Department. The Committee has a series of prominent webpages on the Departmental website,
 which act as a focal point for EDI issues.
 The Committee is also proactive in developing new Departmental initiatives to enhance EDI
 measures: we established an LGBTQ+ network (2017) for staff and students to identify issues
 related to sexuality and gender in the workplace (e.g. transphobia, homophobia), and a BAME
 network (2018) to provide a space where issues related to race and ethnicity in teaching and
 research could be freely discussed, as well as providing a social network for BAME research and
 other students. We have also created a network for people with disabilities and neurodiverse
 students and staff, and a network for women in physical geography (2020). In 2018, our LGBTQ+
 network held a gender diversity workshop that was well attended by staff and research students
 from across UCL, while the BAME network has held a series of events including careers advice
 workshops for research students about to enter the workplace. Key contacts for both networks
 include staff and research students.
 Promoting and supporting diversity in the PGR population: UCL established the Research
 Opportunity Scholarships to support BAME PGR degree students, starting in 2018; the
 Department was successful in obtaining two out of the five offered across UCL in that year. The
 SHS Faculty is developing further strategic initiatives to attract, fund and support BAME PGR
 students. Results of the Postgraduate Research Experience Surveys are examined with particular


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 attention to equalities issues by the DGT and Deputy DGT, who submit proposals to the
 Departmental Management Team if any action is required.
 Promoting and supporting diversity among staff: All staff on appointment panels undergo
 training on unconscious bias, and specific training has been organised for all staff and
 postgraduates on bullying and harassment. Our appointments panels since the last REF have a
 50/50 gender balance. The EDI Committee coordinates and analyses qualitative and quantitative
 information relevant to the Departmental structure and procedures. This includes review and edit
 of job descriptions and advertisements, and analysis of long-term data trends for gender and
 ethnicity of people applying to UCL Geography jobs, those who obtain interviews, those who are
 offered jobs and those who finally accept offered positions.
 The proportion of our UoA staff (HESA3 and HESA2, the ‘baseline’) with protected characteristics
 is 33% female and 13% BAME, which is below the institutional baseline of 44% and 17%,
 respectively. Closer inspection shows that the HESA2 profile of our staff is 42% female and 13%
 BAME, while the HESA3 profile is 30% female and 8% BAME. We have therefore explicitly
 encouraged applications from women and ethnic minorities in our recent job advertisements. In
 the current REF cycle, we have made fourteen new academic appointments, of whom seven are
 female and two of BAME background. While we recognise that there is much to be done to improve
 the diversity of our academic posts, we are encouraged by the situation in our research staff. Thus,
 part of our strategy to improve diversity in academic recruitments is our continued support and
 investment in the earlier stages of the pipeline.
 Wellbeing of staff and research students: Promoting the wellbeing of staff and students is a
 crucial dimension of being an inclusive department. We have a Wellbeing Champion (Mackay)
 and two PGR representatives on the Self-Assessment Team. The Wellbeing Champion and
 Inclusion Leads both provide designated hours every week to meet with staff and students to chat
 about wellbeing issues when needed. The Department has weekly yoga classes and also its own
 thriving running group (UCLgeoggers) to promote health and wellbeing amongst the student and
 staff body.
 Promoting an inclusive environment: The Department ensures that all staff and students can
 attend meetings and key events (including social events). We have a core hours policy of 10am
 to 4pm and where requested we do not timetable lectures for academic staff with caring
 responsibilities during early morning or late afternoon slots. Social events are not centred around
 alcohol. Our four networks (BAME, LGBTQ+, Women in Physical Geography, Disability and
 Neurodiversity) organise events for staff and students, including film screenings and LGBTQ+
 themed wikithons. Events and meetings are accessible to staff and students with disabilities. We
 ensure that images on our websites represent the diversity to which UCL Geography is committed.
 Construction of the REF submission: Our REF strategy developed over a series of all-staff
 away days, with the Research Committee overseeing its implementation. It was collectively agreed
 that output selection would have no bearing on appraisals and promotions. The composition of the
 Research Committee varied during the REF cycle, reflecting turnover in cluster leadership, but on
 average comprised 3-4 female and 5-6 male staff. Members received EDI training. Output
 assessors attended a workshop on REF guidelines to ensure uniformity of practice. The results of
 the assessment were communicated to staff, aiming to provide constructive advice; assessors
 also reviewed draft manuscripts and provided feedback. External assessors reviewed a subset of
 outputs to ensure calibration and advised on their selection. The impact case studies have been
 written by the staff directly involved in the research and impact, with feedback from Research
 Committee, the IC and the Faculty Research Impact Manager. The selection of independent
 researchers followed the UCL REF2021 Code of Practice.
 The UoA submission (56 people, 55.5 FTE) includes 18 female (32%) and 5 BAME (9%; the
 ethnicity of an additional 3 is undeclared), compared to our baseline distribution (female 33%,
 BAME 13%). The percentage of attributed outputs by staff with protected characteristics is 30%
 female, 6.5% BAME; the likelihood, therefore, of an output being attributed to female staff is 0.91
 and BAME is 0.71, but we note that 8% of outputs are by staff of undeclared ethnicity, with a
 likelihood of attribution of 1.46. The UCL REF team has made us aware of institutional problems
 with the collection of ethnicity data which UCL is seeking urgently to address.

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The pattern of output distribution reveals that the likelihood of female staff having five outputs
 attributed is 0.89, while that of having one output attributed is 1.17. Thus, despite a staff selection
 that is in line with the demographics of the baseline, this pattern raises questions that need to be
 analysed and understood (e.g. the number of outputs attributed per person may not be a reflection
 of the total number of outputs published). In terms of seniority, the output distribution suggests
 that while Professors are equally likely to have from one to five outputs attributed to them, early
 career staff are more likely to have fewer than three outputs. Our aspiration is that just as early
 career staff at the start of this REF cycle (section 1.3) have now contributed five or four outputs
 each, recently-appointed Lecturers will have a similar progression over the next cycle, as part of
 our long-term staffing strategy.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research funding and strategies for generating research income, including links
 between research funding and high-quality research output or impact
 One of the future objectives articulated in our REF2014 strategy was to increase our research
 income. Over the reporting period, our portfolio of projects was worth £22,434,860. To achieve
 this, we enhanced proven practices and pursued new initiatives by:
 (1) Promoting a stimulating research environment, with weekly research seminars and termly
 cluster meetings to provide a platform for discussing research plans.
 (2) Establishing a rigorous internal peer review of proposals.
 (3) Providing support for grant applications through a dedicated Departmental facilitator.
 (4) Making full use of Faculty and University research facilitators.
 (5) Placing a stronger emphasis on European funding. In the previous REF cycle, we submitted
 23 applications to FP7 of which 6 were funded (including 1 ERC AdG) and awarded a total of
 ~£3M. In the current cycle, we submitted 34 applications to Horizon 2020 of which 13 were funded
 and awarded a total of ~£8M (part of which is carried over to the next REF period), including 4
 ERC grants (Fiddian-Qasmiyeh [StG], Haklay [AdG], Marais [StG], (Robinson [AdG]).
 (6) Pursuing strategic funding:
   NASA (for 3D forest measurement, new satellite mission support), ESA (mission support, forest
     carbon, and new product development), National Centre for Earth Observation (capital funding,
     and National Capability funding for Official Development Assistance work), UK Government
     funding (Newton STFC / DFID for crop security co-funded with Chinese government) (Disney,
     P.Lewis).
   AHRC-ESRC Global Challenges Research Fund for work on refugees and local host
     communities (Fiddian-Qasmiyeh).
   ESRC Urban Transformations to support research and comparative analyses of the politics of
     large-scale urban developments in China, South Africa and the UK (Robinson).
   Partnerships with business and government organisations around the acquisition and
     synthesis of diverse sources of ‘Big Data’ (GSAC cluster). ESRC Consumer Data Research
     Centre (CDRC), with UCL Geography the lead institution (Longley).
   The Royal Society - DFID Capacity Building Initiative Consortium Grant AfriWatSan: sustaining
     urban groundwater-fed water supplies and sanitation systems in Africa; and NERC ‘Directed –
     International: ‘Groundwater Futures’ in Sub-Saharan Africa (Taylor).


 3.2 Organisational infrastructure and areas of significant investment
 Over the REF cycle, support for research and impact infrastructure has been planned and
 implemented through close co-ordination between the Department, the Faculty Dean and Vice-
 Dean for Research.
 Research in Physical Geography is supported by two main laboratory facilities, the Geography
 Laboratories and the Bloomsbury Environmental Isotope Facility (BEIF), which includes the
 UCL Environmental Radiometric Facility (ERF). The Geography Laboratories are staffed by a
 Laboratory Manager and three full-time technicians. Overall strategy and operation are overseen
 by a Departmental Laboratory Committee. BEIF is a joint facility with the Department of Earth

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sciences, staffed by a Manager, who is a joint appointment with Earth Sciences, and a Research
 Fellow who supports the ERF facility. The operation of BEIF is overseen by a steering committee,
 comprising members from the ‘parent’ departments. Computing facilities have been managed by
 the Computer System Administrator, supported by a team of a Webmaster and a Database
 Developer.
 During the census period, a major investment in maintaining and enhancing our world-leading
 operational infrastructure has been undertaken through Departmental and UCL Research Capital
 Equipment Funds:
  Coulter Counter (£35K).
  X-ray fluorescence spectrometer (XRF) (£90K).
  Fourier-Transform Infra-Red imaging microscope (µFTIR) for the rapid analysis of
    microplastics and other organic and inorganic determinands (£60K).
  ROBIN airborne and mobile laser scanning for cutting-edge 3D observations of forests, terrain,
    urban and aquatic/marine environments (£161K).
  Nu Perspective IRMS for oxygen and carbon isotope analyses, and automated clumped-
    isotope measurements for BEIF (£189K from Geography; £148.7K from Earth Sciences).
  Picarro L2130-i water analyser for O and H isotope analysis of natural waters with rapid
    throughput for BEIF (£131.3K).
  Geocomputing cluster for Artificial Intelligence, human-environmental system modelling, and
    Earth Observation (£141K).


 3.3. Operational and scholarly infrastructure
 Laboratories and field equipment: The Geography laboratories include facilities for the curation
 of sediment cores and samples and the routine preparation of sediments for sedimentological,
 palaeoecological (diatoms, pollen, foraminifera, ostracods), geochemical and stable isotope
 analyses. The laboratories include: an ultra-clean preparation room with laminar flow bench for
 trace element analysis and biomarkers; two HF-grade laboratories for pollen sample preparations;
 a suite of research microscopes and reference collections for microfossil analyses; a water
 chemistry laboratory for cation, anion and nutrient analysis; an ICP laboratory (joint with Earth
 Sciences). Investment during the census period has enhanced our capabilities for bulk
 geochemical and grain size analyses of sediments. The ERF lab hosts a gamma spectrometry
 facility with four Ametek gamma spectrometers for radioisotope analyses, including 210Pb/137Cs
 dating. The Department has an extensive range of field equipment, including five research boats,
 Livingstone, Russian, Hiller, Mini Mackereth gravity and percussion corers, hydrographic and
 coastal oceanographic instrumentation, dGPS, sounding and side-scan sonar equipment.
 BEIF has expertise analysing inorganic and organic stable isotopes. It houses one dual-inlet
 (ThermoFisher MAT253) and two continuous-flow (ThermoFisher Delta V & Delta Plus XP) mass
 spectrometers with a variety of peripheral systems capable of measuring stable isotopes (δ 18O,
 δ15N, δ13C and δ2H) generated from a variety of materials. New equipment includes the Nu
 Perspective IRMS; the Picarro CRDS; and IsoLink and Delta V IRMS.
 Map Library: Our map library houses one of the largest Geography department map collections
 in the UK, containing over 100,000 historic maps and charts that support a range of research
 activities. The library is being progressively digitised so that this substantial historical resource can
 be delivered as a curated digital collection supporting historical, spatial and geographical research
 within and beyond the Department.
 Computing: Our strength in computational geographies, ranging from HPC-dedicated tasks (e.g.
 climate modelling) through algorithm work (e.g. model development and machine learning) to
 intensive analysis of large datasets, is underpinned by a large Linux network exclusively for the
 Department’s use. The Department also accesses some of the fastest university-owned HPC in
 the country through UCL’s Grace machine (initially benchmarked in the Top 100 machines
 globally). National facilities such as ARCHER and Jasmin are also used.
 A local cluster of high-performance Linux workstations supports advanced PhD and MSc research
 and enables us to deliver UCL’s research-based Connected Curriculum. All of the systems benefit

                                                                                                  Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 from the latest versions of Matlab, Envi/IDL, Intel Compilers, Anaconda Python, R and QGIS. We
 also run specialist modelling software (e.g. Mike SHE) via Windows virtual machines.
 In addition to these facilities, the Consumer Data Research Centre has eight compute nodes each
 with 16 cores and 192GB RAM. There are an additional two compute nodes with 16 cores and
 768GB RAM for working on larger datasets. A server with 128GB RAM and a very fast disk storage
 20TB array provides database services. Further servers provide web and other ancillary services.
 These are all underpinned by storage systems providing >100TB of storage.


 3.4. EDI issues: support for acquiring research funding or accessing infrastructure
 We promote an inclusive and accessible research and work culture and ensure that our scholarly
 and operational infrastructure is accessible to any member of the Department (including students)
 with disabilities. For example, we employ a part-time PA to assist a member of staff with visual
 impairments to facilitate written work and communication; we utilise new technology and
 equipment to support those with hearing and voice impairments; and we have lift and ramp access
 to the different floors in our buildings. During the current pandemic, the Department adopted new
 accessibility standards in relation to online working.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Arrangements, support in place for and effectiveness of research collaborations,
 networks and partnerships and indicators of their success
 UCL Geography fosters an inclusive research environment and values diversity in approaches to
 collaborative working that collectively support the progression of our staff, advance of our
 disciplines, and sharing of knowledge and understanding with wider society. Ultimately, the extent
 and depth of such collaborations inform the Departmental research and impact strategy, and long-
 term investment in facilities. We actively encourage (through appraisals) and support (through
 provision of space, laboratory and computing facilities) the creation and nurturing of collaborations,
 networks and partnerships.
 We have drawn on UCL funding initiatives aiming to promote collaborations: (i) Grand Challenges
 (Bressey, Coulter, Fiddian-Qasmiyeh, Robinson, Varley); (ii) Global Engagement Fund (GEF)
 (Arabindoo, Dittmer, Harris, V.Jones, Page, Rose, Thompson); (iii) Cities Partnerships
 (Arabindoo, Tzedakis); and (iv) UCL-French Embassy (Arabindoo). For example, GEF enabled
 Arabindoo to develop collaborations with Indian partners (Anna University, Chennai and IIT-
 Madras) on the impact of the 2015 Chennai floods and its aftermath. The Cities Partnerships
 provided Tzedakis with seed funding to establish a new research collaboration with partners at the
 University of Rome ‘La Sapienza’ and the Italian CNR; this in turn led to a successful joint NERC-
 funded application.
 We have taken a central role in national institutional collaborations: UCL was one of the five
 founding universities of the Alan Turing Institute (coordinated at UCL by Musolesi (section 1.5)).
 UCL has joined the Met Office Academic Partnership (MOAP) of leading institutions advancing
 the science and skill of weather and climate prediction (Brierley is on the UCL-MOAP Management
 Board).
 The global coverage of our research sites during the reporting period (Fig. 1) reflects the
 development of collaborations with local researchers and international consortia. Notable
 examples include:
 Fiddian-Qasmiyeh is Academic Co-Chair of the Joint Learning Initiative Refugees and
  Forced Migration Hub, bringing together academics, policy makers, practitioners and faith
  leaders who work on displacement, to ‘jointly learn’ and ensure that policies and practices in
  this field are based on appropriate forms of evidence. It has ~100 members (including Oxfam,
  UNHCR and a range of faith-based NGOs).
 P.Jones conceived and leads the ongoing Marine Protected Area Governance (MPAG)
  research network (with UNEP funding) and the former European Marine Spatial Planning
  Research Network (with EU FP7 funding). These research networks have involved over 130

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  scientists, postgraduate researchers and policy practitioners from 32 countries, who have
  contributed 63 case studies.
 S.Lewis founded and co-manages the African Tropical Rainforest Observatory Network
  (AfriTRON), a network of long-term inventory plots across 12 countries in tropical Africa,
  involving partners from 22 countries. AfriTRON provides vital insights into mechanisms
  underlying current responses of tropical ecosystems to climate and possible futures of African
  forests under climate and other environmental changes scenarios.
 Taylor and Favreau (IRD, France) conceived and lead the Chronicles Consortium, through
  which over 30 scientists from 14 countries in Africa and beyond (UK, France, USA) compile and
  analyse long-term observations to understand groundwater storage responses to climate
  variability and human use. The Consortium also develops long-term benchmark datasets to test
  numerical models, linking allied observatories in the Network of African Groundwater
  Observatories.
 Tzedakis founded and co-leads the Quaternary Interglacials (QUIGS 2015-2022) Working
  Group of the Past Global Changes project. QUIGS has involved 95 palaeoclimate scientists
  from four continents and aims to improve understanding of the climate processes during warm
  periods of the Quaternary. Its research findings are contributing to the 6th Assessment Report
  (AR6) of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).


 4.2 Engagement with key research users, beneficiaries or audiences
 The Department is committed to a knowledge exchange agenda that extends across public,
 private, commercial, and government sectors. Our research-led scientific, technological, and
 conceptual advances now underpin and inform policy and practice. Community and citizen-
 focused engagement and data collection have augmented our research activities and outputs. The
 collaborations and interactions arising from these have, in turn, enriched the intellectual
 environment of the Department.
 Internationally, our research has influenced and informed global policy and practice, such as
 marine protected area governance for UNEP (P.Jones) and international humanitarian
 engagement and delivery of ‘good practice examples’ to UNHCR (Fiddian-Qasmiyeh). Our
 research has advised local government in South Africa (Robinson), and national water authorities
 to influence groundwater policy and management across sub-Saharan Africa (Taylor). Our earth
 observation modelling underpins ESA/NASA algorithms and products (Disney; P.Lewis).
 Research undertaken in the Department has delivered expert knowledge and guidance to
 national and regional government and policy organisations in the UK. Dittmer and McConnell
 reported to the Foreign and Commonwealth Office Policy Unit on the changing nature of digital
 diplomacy and potential changes to FCO's practices. Page has advised the FCO and the All Party
 Parliamentary Group for Africa on the social and historical context of the 2018 Cameroon conflict.
 The CDRC (Longley, Cheshire) provide consumer data for the social good, used by local
 authorities, police forces and NHS Trusts. Working with Cefas, Burningham has delivered
 research and geomorphological advice to the British Energy Estuarine and Marine Studies
 programme, informing decision-making on nuclear energy planning. Kneale advised the Museum
 of London Archaeological Service on analysing time capsules recovered after the demolition of
 the National Temperance Hospital.
 Our research has been influential in conservation and environmental management and
 decision-making. We work directly with stakeholders to implement specific research agendas to
 support: (i) the protection of rare species (V.Jones: in Scotland and Madagascar); (ii) assessment
 of climate change impacts on environments (Thompson: English Heritage, Environment Agency,
 Natural England, RSPB and the Wildlife Trusts); (iii) restoration and management of freshwaters,
 particularly in terms of the effects of eutrophication (Sayer, Bennion: Wildlife and Rivers Trusts,
 National Trust); (iv) environmental decision making (Burningham: estuary management - Deben
 Estuary Partnership; licencing decision-making for the UK seabed estate - The Crown Estate); (v)
 evidence-based practice through the Department-based consultancy Ensis Ltd, working with Defra
 (running the Upland Waters Monitoring Network until 2018) and agencies (Scottish EPA; SNH;
 Welsh Government; Natural Resources Wales; Forest Research; Marine Scotland) as well as the


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Centre for Ecology and Hydrology (CEH) on recovery from surface water acidification and
 confounding factors in upland UK (Battarbee, Rose, V.Jones); and (vi) participatory modelling of
 coastal change, involving communities and agencies (French, Burningham: NERC iCOASST).
 At the grassroots level, we have a long history of working with local communities, public
 organisations and vulnerable groups. In these examples, collaboration is embedded at all
 stages of research, from design to impact and dissemination. We have built networks and
 relationships to encourage good practice in local initiatives to support the increase in biodiversity
 in agricultural landscapes (Sayer: Norfolk Pond Project). We advised community-based
 mobilisation in response to failing flood defences and water quality in Chennai (Arabindoo), and
 work with the Just Space alliance of community groups in London and Planact in Johannesburg,
 to support public engagement in metropolitan and local plan processes (Robinson). Our research
 on religion and its significance in suburbia has enriched connections across communities,
 increasing tolerance and awareness of faiths (Dwyer). In sub-Saharan Africa, our groundwater
 research directly benefits local communities in assisting the provision of reliable water supplies
 (Taylor). Through researching skills and aspirations amongst young offenders in the UK, we have
 supported groups such as the Changing Paths Charitable Trust to develop sustainable livelihoods
 for ex-offenders (Thieme). Working with refugees has delivered critical support and assistance to
 both displaced and host communities in Syria, Jordan and Turkey (Fiddian-Qasmiyeh).
 Collaborative projects with refugee activists in Greece (Active Citizens Sound Archive) provide a
 platform for community building and political inclusion (Western).


 4.3 Wider contributions to the economy and society, not captured in impact case studies
 Several of our research groups deliver multiple tools and data products to national and
 international agencies that arise from innovative analytical approaches and substantial advances
 in data assimilation techniques. In particular, our work with Earth Observation data, in combination
 with modelling and field surveys, has led to transformative shifts in decision-making for
 conservation, agricultural and climate change mitigation. Research led by S.Lewis integrated the
 first field datasets of depth and carbon content of the central Congo swamp forests with satellite
 data, discovering the world’s largest tropical peatland complex, containing an estimated 30.6
 billion tonnes of carbon, equivalent to 20 years of the fossil fuel emissions from the US. As a direct
 consequence of this work, the Republic of Congo and Democratic Republic of Congo governments
 signed the Brazzaville Declaration to protect the peatland, leading to over $20 million being
 invested in further research, sustainable landscape management and protection of the central
 Congo peatlands. Research led by P.Lewis has established a data assimilation-based crop
 monitoring system that works at unprecedented high resolution over large geographic areas.
 Study sites in the North China Plain account for 80% of China’s wheat production, where
 simulations and predictions of crop performance have supported strategic planning, regional
 production optimisation, and management of national food supply and security. This work was
 awarded the Newton Prize 2019, recognising the best science and innovation partnerships
 between the UK and Newton partner countries.
 Through our migration-focused research activities, we are addressing key challenges in the
 delivery of meaningful support to, and social justice for, refugees. Research led by Fiddian-
 Qasmiyeh explores the motivations, nature, and implications of the Global South aid response,
 establishing the concept of overlapping displacement, that raises the importance of host
 communities (including refugees) as responders to displacement. The work has disseminated
 evidence-based, best-practice examples and religious literacy guidance to inform humanitarian
 aid programmes and NGO training courses.
 The social enterprise Mapping for Change (MfC) was established to utilise participatory mapping
 know-how, using software created through research led by Haklay. Since 2010, MfC has
 supported over thirty communities to undertake citizen science monitoring programmes to
 measure, map and increase awareness of air pollution in London, Barcelona, Katowice and
 Kampala. The activities have influenced public awareness of air quality issues, changed practices
 of public transport providers and local authorities, and have been drawn on in policy documents.



                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.4 Engagement with diverse communities and audiences
 Communication and dissemination of our research activity to a variety of audiences is essential to
 our mission to deliver impact for public benefit. We have made increasing use of UCL Culture’s
 public engagement team to embed a culture of engagement in the Department, and our
 initiatives have been recognised in the UCL ‘Provost’s Awards for Public Engagement’
 (Fiddian-Qasmiyeh, Haklay, Sayer).
 The Department has a strong online presence and we engage with social media audiences, with
 ~10,000 followers across Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. We deliver a range of online resources
 and commentary, including the UCL Geography blog (9520 users), and in 2015 we relaunched
 the Bloomsbury Geographer, a student-led online journal.
 Several of our research groups and projects run online activities that connect with wider public
 and academic audiences and enhance open access to our research findings and learning, such
 as the Pond Restoration Research Group (Sayer uclponds.org). Cheshire’s site (jcheshire.com)
 attracts 100,000 visits a year, with many utilising tutorials on the use of the R statistics package
 for mapping and visualisation. Disney is lead educator on the ESA-funded Massive Open Online
 Course on Earth Observation in the Optical Domain (hosted by futurelearn.com), with over 10,000
 completed participants to date.
 Our research outputs have contributed to the delivery of open (free) tools or data products that
 are utilised by the public and a wide range of organisations. Datashine.org.uk (Cheshire,
 supported by ESRC Future Research Leaders funding) is used across the public, private, charity
 and educational sectors. The iOS Wetland Tool supports managers by providing assessments of
 climate change impacts for any wetland in England and Wales (Thompson, with CEH, supported
 by NERC Impact Award funding). The Coastal and Estuarine System Mapping QGIS plugin has
 been used by the National Trust (Poole Harbour) and Magnox Ltd (for the Nuclear
 Decommissioning Authority, evaluating ‘end state’ options for Bradwell power station) to map
 coastal systems and capture processes/influences (French, Burningham, NERC iCOASST).
 We undertake media engagement activities, contributing to open discourse around key issues
 relating to our research, but also to engage the widest possible public audience. Fiddian-
 Qasmiyeh’s research, including the ‘Refugee Hosts’ project, has been exhibited at the Imperial
 War Museum, London and in the 2017 Venice Biennale, in addition to being showcased at the
 House of Commons and at the Headquarters of the UNHCR. The ‘Refugee Hosts’ website has
 been visited by over 66,000 people. Ingram organised a public event and a public discussion (Al-
 Mutanabbi Street Starts Here) about challenges of working in and through war, occupation and
 cultural destruction, informed by his research on art in relation to the 2003 Iraq war.
 Our research activity and output has been covered in national and international newspapers, TV
 and radio channels. Since 2014, 15 staff and PhD students have contributed 54 articles to ‘The
 Conversation’, eliciting over 2500 comments and over two million reads. One article (Maslin) has
 more than one million reads. Staff are on Cheltenham Science Festival Advisory Committee
 (Maslin) and have contributed to exhibitions at the British Library, Barbican Open Lab Festival,
 Interference Archive in New York and Kettle’s Yard, Cambridge (Roseneil).


 4.5 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline, interdisciplinary research, and
 responsiveness to national and international priorities and initiatives
 Our research is at the forefront of contemporary debates in our discipline and we are actively
 involved in working groups or leading partnerships that address these.
 Staff contributed to de-colonising the discipline by publishing work at the intersection of Black,
 post-, de-, and anti-colonial geography that has helped to advance discussions around colonial
 legacies (Bressey, Datta, Jazeel, Robinson). Bressey and Jazeel were instrumental in discussions
 that led to the establishment of the RGS’s Race, Culture and Equality Working Group in 2015.
 Research in the Department continues to aim at the pluralisation of the discipline and critical
 engagements with its prevailing whiteness (e.g. ‘Making Africa Urban’, Robinson).
 We contributed to national and international priorities and initiatives: Axmacher is Lead Author of
 Chapter 4 of the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Services regional assessment report on biodiversity and ecosystem services for Asia and the
 Pacific; Bennion is leading the development of the Aquatic Restoration Partnership, committed
 to the sustainable restoration of UK aquatic ecosystems; Brierley is contributing author to Chapter
 3 of the IPCC AR6. Kelman and Maslin are part of the Lancet Countdown on health and climate
 change; Rose is a member of the Anthropocene Working Group of the Subcommission on
 Quaternary Stratigraphy; Taylor’s AfriWatSan Consortium contributes to the UN Sustainability
 Development Goal 6 by providing solutions to the development, operation and management of
 water supply and sanitation in low-income settlements in Africa; Thompson, Burningham,
 Cheshire, Page contributed to the Climate Impact Research Capacity and Leadership
 Enhancement Programme for sub-Saharan Africa, a DFID-funded programme implemented
 through the Association of Commonwealth Universities and the African Academy of Sciences.
 During the Covid-19 pandemic, we have advanced public knowledge and provided expert
 comment:
  Arabindoo analysed the harsh dilemmas that poor cities face between lockdown and access to
   markets (City and Society; RGS-IBG blog Geography Directions).
  Cheshire and Trasberg have analysed measures derived from in-app phone data to chart how
   activity has changed in major UK cities during the lockdown (Financial Times, 12/5/2020).
  Datta examined the redeployment of existing technologies of surveillance and sousveillance to
   monitor the Covid-19 crisis in India (Dialogues in Human Geography) and the impacts of Covid-
   19 on migrant populations (RGS-IBG blog Geography Directions).
  Fiddian-Qasmiyeh’s ‘Refugee Hosts’ project launched a blog series exploring the ways that
   refugees are experiencing and responding to Covid-19.
  GSAC’s ethnicity estimation methods have provided data to government bodies in England and
   Wales to inform understanding of the relationship between ethnicity and Covid-19 infections
   and outcomes.
  P.Jones and Maslin have written in The Ecologist on the significance of Covid-19 for
   governance and the Green New Deal.
  Thompson and colleagues reviewed coronavirus detection, presence and persistence in the
   water environment (Water Research).

 4.6 Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base
 We support the discipline by undertaking editorial roles and serving on committees. We were
 involved in founding the journals Geo (2014) and Migration and Society (2019). In addition:
 Editorships: Arabindoo: City Journal. Bennion: Journal of Paleolimnology; Frontiers in Ecology
 and Evolution, special section Paleoecology. Datta: Urban Geography; Dialogues in Human
 Geography. Disney: Remote Sensing in Ecology and Conservation. Dittmer: Social and Cultural
 Geography; Geopolitical Bodies, Material Worlds Book Series. Fiddian-Quasmiyeh: Migration and
 Society. Holmes: Science Bulletin; Journal of Paleolimnology. Ingram: Ashgate Critical Geopolitics
 book series. Jazeel: Antipode; Environment and Planning d: Society and Space. Kneale: Journal
 of Victorian Culture; Social History of Alcohol and Drugs. Mackay: Geo: Geography and
 Environment. Maslin: Global Sustainability. Robinson: IJURR book series (Studies in Urban and
 Social Change). Roseneil: Palgrave book series (Citizenship, Gender and Diversity). Thornalley:
 Climate of the Past, Paleoceanography and Paleoclimatology. Varley: Bulletin of Latin American
 Research. Waters: Migration and Society.
 Grants committees: Funding review panels for British Ecological Society (Mackay), British
 Academy Cities and Infrastructure Research Programme (Robinson), ERC (Haklay, Longley); EU
 JTC Scientific Evaluation Panel–FLAG-ERA Flagship Programme (Longley), EU EKLIPSE
 Biodiversity (Kovacs, co-chair), EU Marie Curie Fellowship (Dittmer), European Science
 Foundation (Mackay), Swedish Research Council for Sustainable Development (Arabindoo), DFF
 (Denmark) Green Transition Research Committee (Barry), DFG (Germany) panel - Regional Sea
 Level Change and Society (French), NASA Terrestrial Ecology (Disney), Research Council of
 Norway (Barry, Thornalley, Varley), US EPA STAR (Marais).
 UKRI committees: Peer review panels and colleges for: EPSRC (Haklay), ESRC (Varley,
 Waters), NERC (Disney, Holmes); Strategic advisory and steering panels for AHRC-GCRF and

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 AHRC-ODA (Fiddian-Quasmiyeh), ESRC Data Resources with special responsibility for business
 data (Longley), NERC Isotope Geosciences Facilities (Mackay), NERC British Ocean Sediment
 Core Research Facility (Tzedakis). Programme panels for NERC ‘Understanding the
 Effectiveness of Natural Flood Management’ (Thompson), NERC-ESRC-DFID ‘Ecosystem
 Services for Poverty Alleviation’ (Axmacher).
 Leadership: Bennion is Chair of the International Paleolimnology Association. Disney is on the
 Remote Sensing Advisory Group, Gabon Government, and US-NSF Advisory Committee for
 Terrestrial Laser Scanning Research Coordination Network. French is Founding member of the
 International Geographical Union Commission on Geomorphology and Society. Haklay served on
 the Board of the Citizen Science Association and the European Citizen Science Association.
 Holmes is Advisory Board member of Paleoclimate Commission of the International Quaternary
 Association and Chair of the Ostracod Group of the Micropalaeontological Society. Jazeel is
 Academic Trustee of The Geographical Association, and on the Strategic advisory and steering
 panels for British Academy South Asia Area. Kelman is director of the London Polar Group, the
 Many Strong Voices programme and the Risk Reduction Education for Disasters; he is on the UK
 Advisory Board of the Polar Research and Policy Initiative. Kneale is on the RGS Historical
 Geography Research Group committee. Kneale and Randalls were on the committee of the Royal
 Statistical Society's History of Statistics Section. Longley is member of the Nanjing Plan 111,
 China. Marais is steering committee member of the International GEOS-Chem chemical transport
 model. Roseneil served as a Trustee and as Chair of the Association of Psychosocial Studies and
 is on the Council of the Academy of Social Sciences. Sayer is committee member for the European
 Pond Conservation Network. Waters is on the RGS Research and Higher Education Committee.
 Staff have organised 80 scientific meetings and have delivered 141 keynote lectures. During
 the REF period, their outstanding research has been recognised in fellowships and prizes:
 Cheshire: North American Cartographic Information Society’s Corlis Benefidio Award (2018);
 Royal Geographical Society’s Cuthbert Peek Award (2017); The British Cartographic Society
 Award (2015, 2017); The JC Bartholomew Award for Thematic Mapping (2017); Winner London
 Book Fair Innovation in Travel Publishing Prize. (2017); The British Cartographic Society Award.
 (2015); The Stanford’s Award for Printed Mapping (2015). Dittmer: Georg Bollenbeck Fellow,
 University of Siegen (2017). Fiddian-Qasmiyeh: Philip Leverhulme Prize (2015). Kovacs:
 Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship (2018) and British Academy Tackling International
 Challenges Award (2017). S.Lewis: Clarivate’s ‘Highly Cited Researchers’ list (2018). P.Lewis and
 Wu: 2019 Newton Prize chair award. Robinson: Fellow of the Society of South African
 Geographers (2016). Roseneil: Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences; Founding Scholar of
 the British Psychoanalytic Council; Professor-at-Large Fellow, Institute of Advanced Studies,
 University of Western Australia. Thornalley: Philip Leverhulme Prize (2016). Waters: Fellow of the
 Learned Society of Wales. Western: Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions Individual Fellowship and
 artist in residence at Stegi of the Onassis Foundation, Athens, Greece.


 Reflection on the REF process and concluding remarks
 A challenge for every UoA is to ensure that staff members recognise the improvements in research
 environment, staff development and equality and diversity practices arising from the REF exercise
 and thereby own the process. Over the current REF cycle, we have engaged with staff in an
 inclusive, constructive and self-reflexive manner, agreeing together the process of preparing our
 submission. We have sought to establish mechanisms that are perceived as improving research
 rather than merely assessing it. Underpinning our approach to REF has been an emphasis on
 sharing a collective purpose and a mutual respect and trust in each other’s expertise, perspective
 and abilities. Our goal has been to produce a dynamic, lively and collegiate intellectual atmosphere
 in which every individual’s research might flourish. Our self-assessment is that since REF2014
 our outstanding research environment has provided a platform to produce research and impact at
 the forefront of geography.




                                                                                             Page 18
