Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:            University of Exeter
 Unit of Assessment: 17 (Business and Management)
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 a. Overview
 Our Unit is committed to interdisciplinary research excellence and to being among the UK’s
 leaders in business and management research. Since REF2014, we actively pursued the
 objectives outlined in our REF2014 Environment Template, with an accelerated focus on building
 up the research environment after a strategic review in 2017. The emphasis of the five-year
 research strategy was in setting challenging objectives for research quality, funding, impact, and
 staffing. To achieve our ambitions, research is primarily organised and directed through three
 departments (Science, Innovation, Technology and Entrepreneurship (SITE), Management (DoM)
 and Finance & Accounting (F&A) based across three locations: Exeter, Penryn and London, and
 eight funded research centres.

 Our structure is set up to ensure staff-led engagement in research strategy, and implementation
 is driven through the Research Strategy Group (RSG), departments and research centres (with
 staff holding appointments across both departments and centres), creating a vibrant, innovative,
 outward-looking research culture. Our restructuring was coupled with a five-year growth strategy
 that started in 2018 and so far has seen an investment of £9.2M in research staff, including hiring
 13 Distinguished Research Professors (DRP), recruited from international universities to ensure
 the Unit is enriched, sustainable and committed to our research programme and environment (see
 Section 1c(iii) below). As such, we have focused on delivering distinctive, relevant, impactful, and
 rigorous research (see Section 1c). We have also fostered a collegial, diverse and international
 faculty (see Section 2), that has achieved significant interdisciplinary research funding (see
 Section 3). We have sustained collaboration with academic and professional stakeholders within
 and outside the University, generating impact with economic and social significance (see Section
 4). As our research environment has progressed, our Unit has delivered innovative and distinctive
 research in Leadership and Well-Being, Behavioural Finance, Circular Economy, Corporate
 Governance, Digital Economy, and Social Networks.

 Our achievements since REF2014 include, FTE (category A staff) increase to 81.2 (from 49.05 in
 2014), 1,179 articles (an average of 14/staff) published in peer-reviewed journals; 128 PhD
 completions (from 95 in 2014), £8.75M captured in research income (from £5M in 2014), and
 research income per FTE now at £25k (from £13.8k in 2014). The Unit’s research has also had
 significant regional, national and international impact on policy and practice (e.g. the UKRI Circular
 Economy Hub). Finally, our re-organisation and growth is in line with the University’s commitment
 to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity (see 2.10 Institutional-Level Environment
 Statement (ILES)), and the Researchers Development Concordat (3.8 ILES) which has
 underpinned our commitment to research ethics, EDI, gender representation, international
 orientation, Early Career Researchers (ECR), and the dignity of staff in all our practices and
 structures (see Section 2d).

 b. Context
 The University of Exeter Business School (UEBS) is submitting to two units of assessments (UoAs
 16 (our Department of Economics) and 17 (the Departments submitted here)). UEBS is managed
 by the College Executive Group (CEG). Research and Impact activities across UEBS are
 managed by the Research Strategy Group (RSG) (reporting to CEG), ensuring sustained


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 commitment to the research strategy. RSG, chaired by the Associate Dean for Research (ADR),
 comprises senior members of the Unit’s departments and centres. RSG staff sit on University
 strategic research committees; the ADR is a member of the University’s Research and Impact
 Executive Group (RIEG) (1.5 ILES).

 c. Research Strategy
 The Unit has a longstanding reputation for research quality, maintained by focusing on excellence
 across our research environment activities – staff recruitment and development, publication,
 research council, charity and corporate research funding in the UK and internationally,
 engagement and impact, PGR recruitment and development. Building on the 'Future Strategy' set
 out in our REF2014 submission, and on panel member supportive feedback, we have both
 consolidated research disciplines within departments whilst developing and creating innovative
 inter-disciplinary research centres. Following the appointment of Pro-Vice-Chancellor and
 Executive Dean Allen in 2016, we developed a global strategy focused both on international best
 practice and creating our own distinctive research environment and culture. Our strategic
 objectives are as follows:

    (i) Achieving disciplinary strength and quality in the departments
    (ii) Enhancing interdisciplinary excellence in the research centres
    (iii) Developing global reach of the research in the Unit and galvanising the research
          environment, and
    (iv) Creating a culture of engagement and impact across all our research.

 Below, we present in more detail how we have pursued these objectives, actions taken, and
 achievements.

 Achieving disciplinary Strength through the Departments
 Key to addressing this objective was the recognition that the Unit's research identity and culture
 have always been “lived” at the departmental level, to support a cohesive, creative and collegial
 disciplinary culture. Alongside this practice, we pursued achieving disciplinary research strength
 in existing areas, but also developing new knowledge around exciting contemporary topics (e.g.,
 Behavioural Finance in F&A). Therefore, in delivering this objective our departments are
 committed to:
     (i)     managing growth to retain and attract senior staff committed to providing leadership
             for junior staff and a shared vision of excellence and collegiality;
     (ii)    maintaining peer groups where individual researchers are mentored and supported
             (each member of staff has an academic lead (see Section 2);
     (iii)   sustaining vitality, for example, continuing our tradition of weekly department research
             seminars in every term, attracting top scholars in our disciplines;
     (iv)    focusing on equality, diversity and inclusivity, ensuring that all researchers at all career
             stages have opportunities to flourish and succeed;
     (v)     organising Unit-wide research training and development activities. The Research
             Methods Centre (see below) has taken a lead role – e.g., paper development
             workshops with editors of top field journals (e.g., The Leadership Quarterly) and
             research methods workshops (e.g., Longitudinal Network Analysis with RSiena);
     (vi)    supporting opportunities for staff to participate in cross-discipline activities. For
             example, Analytics and Leadership, and on Business and Sustainability.



                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Focusing on these commitments aimed at strengthening our research disciplines have enabled
 our Unit to thrive, maintaining scholarly research of the highest quality. Here, staff have continued
 to operate at the forefront of global research. For example, an independent assessment by
 the Times Higher consistently puts UEBS in the UK Top Ten of the Russell Group Universities for
 Business & Management for citations per paper over the period 2014-20. Publishing at the highest
 levels also demonstrates our ability to shape key debates in management (e.g., Inceoglu’s work
 on Machine Learning and Leadership). Research strength in departments is shown by staff
 sustaining a track record of highly influential publications in leading global journals and having a
 strong reputation in their field. For example, Disney is in the list of Top 2% Ranking of Scientist in
 the World for Operations Research (No 14 in UK and 103 in the world; Baas et al. “Updated
 science-wide author databases of standardised citation indicators”). Vitality in the departments
 can also be demonstrated by the significant role staff (particularly female faculty) are playing in
 influencing policy and practice. For example, Sealy's work on Board Diversity in the NHS
 and Hawkins’ work on Public Service Mutuals have been recognised by the UK government and
 beyond, and by the fact that there were over 300 seminars hosted during the current REF cycle.
 Over 50 talks were given by leading international academics (50% by women) from institutions
 such as UC Berkeley, Cornell, Boston University, University of Washington, Maryland, UT Dallas,
 WU Vienna, Frankfurt, Bocconi, and Stockholm School of Economics.

 Our approach to invigorate the research environment in each of the departments builds on the
 commitments outlined above in the following ways.

 The Department of Science, Innovation, Technology and Entrepreneurship (SITE) is a new
 Department that operates across three locations: Streatham campus at Exeter, Penryn campus in
 Cornwall and a research and collaboration space in London’s South Bank. Continued investment
 has ensured its growth (e.g., headcount of SITE increased from 17 FTE in 2018 to 31 FTE at the
 census date). This growth has delivered a diverse and inclusive group, which includes seven
 female professors/associate professors and three ECRs (Ivanova, Gunther, Phillips). To achieve
 disciplinary strength, the Department was formed to link to the STEMM agenda of the University
 (1.4 & 2.1 ILES), therefore, several multidisciplinary research themes were developed:

       Sustainability and the Circular Economy (Hopkinson, Boehm, Charnley, Howard,
        Pascucci, Monciardini);
       Operations and Supply Chain Management, (Disney, Ignatius, Mustafee, Howard,
        Pascucci, Maull, Smart, Phillips);
       Entrepreneurship and Innovation (Molecke, Ivanova, Tornikoski, Vanacker, Kannan-
        Narasimhan, Birtch, Alexander, Islam, Fitza, Ahmed-Kristensen, Hartley);
       Digital Economy (Maull, Gunther, Thompson, Polykarpou, Brown, Lopez, Plans, Ortiz
        De Guinea, Ahmed-Kristensen);
       Organisational Social Networks (Lomi, Parker, Perry-Smith);
       International Management (Duanmu, Monciardini, Hartley, Krammer); and,
       Operational Research (Disney, Mustafee, Ignatius, Yearworth).

 The STEMM orientation meant staff were recruited from disciplines including Engineering (Ahmed-
 Kristensen, Charnley, Disney, Yearworth, Ignatius), Computer Science (Plans) and Applied
 Computing (Mustafee, Gunther). The orientation has led to cross-cutting research including Digital
 Innovation and Design Engineering (Ahmed-Kristensen), Design Innovation and Manufacturing
 in the context of the Circular Economy (Charnley), Digital Technologies and Service Operations

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Management for enhanced visitor experience (Smart, Phillips), Digital Platforms for shaping of
 demand for urgent and emergency services (Mustafee), Digital Innovation and 3-D printing
 (Polykarpou), Control Theory and the Bullwhip Effect (Disney). Further links to the STEMM
 orientation of the University is evidenced by staff being associated with several of the University
 Institutes (ILES 2.1) e.g., Global Systems Institute (Hartley, serves as its Assistant Director for
 Engagement), Environmental and Sustainability Institute (Pascucci), Institute for Data Sciences
 and Artificial Intelligence (Plans, Lopez and Brown).

 The Department of Management’s research builds on well-established areas such as:

       Human Resource Management (Methot, Wihler, Inceoglu, Harvey, Lang, Erdogan);
       Organisational Behaviour (Harvey, Lee, Legood, Emery, Inceoglu, van Quaquebeke,
        Lang, Kark, Leroy, Erdogan);
     Marketing (Dose, Stern, Tourky, Stringfellow).
 And, new themes such as:
      Leadership and Well-being (Inceoglu, Adarves-Yorno, Lee, Gerbasi, Allen, Peters,
        Leroy, Lang, Erdogan)
      Gender and Leadership (Ladge, Jeanes, Sealy, Peters, Kark, Gloor);
      Organisational Social Networks (Methot, Labianca, Gerbasi, Fagan, Emery, Tasselli,
        White); and,
      Sustainability, (Coles, Shaw, Connell, Whiteman).

 To maintain relevant and topical research and to ensure a virtuous cycle between research and
 impact, the Department works with a range of external stakeholders, building on links with many
 professional associations, including the Institute for Small Business and Entrepreneurship,
 Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) and the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development
 (CIPD). Considered recruitment and development of staff has ensured the Department is diverse,
 with gender balance and growing ECRs. Recent hires were made to strengthen the distinctive
 areas of research, these include Emery, Tasselli, Fagan (Organisational Social
 Networks), Gerbasi, Inceoglu. Ladge (Leadership), Gloor, Peters, Kark (Gender and
 Leadership), White (Management Practices) and Whiteman (Sustainability in Business). The
 Department includes ten female professors/associate professors (Gerbasi, Inceoglu, Sealy,
 Peters, Methot, Hawkins, Whiteman, Erdogan, Ladge, Kark). Six junior faculty were recruited
 (Gloor, Emery, Fagan, Lee, Legood, Wihler). The Department also contributes to world-leading
 research that links to other colleges in the University. For example, work on leadership and health
 links into the medical school (Inceoglu, Jeanes); work on the Future of Work is cultivated by links
 to the Institute for Data Science & Artificial Intelligence, Law and Psychology
 (Inceoglu, Methot, Fagan, Hawkins, Gloor). Developing the research environment has also
 ensured the Department is at the forefront of cutting-edge research in social networks research
 (Emery, Gerbasi, Fagan, Labianca, Tasselli), HR analytics (Methot, Inceoglu, Fagan),
 Mindfulness and Leadership (Adarves-Yorno, Lee), Selection Performance (Inceoglu, Lang,
 Methot) and Leadership and Data science (Lee, Fagan, Inceoglu).

 The Department of Finance and Accounting’s research focuses on:

        Corporate Finance and Governance (Dargenidou, Dimitrova,                    Onali,   Park,
         Tarsalewska, Tharyan, Trojanowski, Tse, Wang, Zhang);
        Investments (Cen, Chen, Tse, Zhang);

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Banking (Isin, Onali);
        Capital Markets Accounting (Dargenidou, Kiosse, Livne, McMeeking, Wang), Tax
         (D'Attoma, Isin, Oats); and,
        Critical Accounting (Billings, Burns, Jollands).

 The Department is also at the forefront of cutting-edge research in Behavioural Finance (Chen,
 Zhang), Empirical Banking (Onali), Corporate Social Responsibility and Finance (Trojanowski,
 Zhang), Exchange Rates (Cen), Private Equity (Dimitrova), and Tax (Oats). The Department is
 committed to sustaining its research environment by hosting weekly research seminars with global
 speakers, as well as regularly organising conferences in Finance and Accounting jointly with other
 universities such as Bristol, Lancaster, and Manchester. Recent hires to strengthen the distinctive
 areas of research include Cen (International Finance), Chen (Behavioural Finance), Onali
 (Banking and Governance), Tse (Mathematical Finance), Zhang (Corporate Finance and
 Sustainability). Finance and Accounting research links to other colleagues within UEBS. For
 example, work on tax links into the Tax Administration Research Centre (TARC) jointly run with
 Economics (D'Attoma, Oats). Work on Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) issues in
 finance is coordinated by the recently established Exeter Sustainable Finance Centre (ESFC) with
 links to other departments/institutes around the University.

 Enhancing Interdisciplinary vitality through Centre Structure
 While individual staff identify with their disciplines within the departments, the focus of this
 objective was on nurturing interdisciplinary research and impact through the research centres.
 This was achieved though providing support, funding and structures for emergent areas of
 research activity to flourish. For example, organisational social networks, circular economy and
 sustainable finance began either as research clusters or informal groups, and all now are
 established centres. Following a review of research centres in 2016, and a drive to consolidate
 the Unit’s interdisciplinary research and impact focus on the university’s STEMM agenda (1.2
 ILES), the current configuration of centres is a blend of established research groups (e.g. a long
 history and reputation for Leadership, Operations Management and Entrepreneurship and
 Innovation research), and the creation of new ones focusing on distinctive and innovative areas
 (e.g., Digital Economy and Circular Economy), which have an interdisciplinary focus on
 environment and sustainability, data and healthcare. Therefore, our centres undertake innovative
 research at the intersection of business, human and social capital, the digital economy and
 sustainability.

 Currently, our Unit’s eight research centres operate within and across the three departments.
 These are Exeter Centre for Leadership (ExCL), Exeter Centre for Circular Economy (ECCE),
 Centre for Simulation, Modelling and Analytics (CSAM), Initiative in the Digital Economy (INDEX),
 Exeter Centre for Social Networks (ECSN), Exeter Sustainable Finance Centre (ESFC) and the
 Exeter Centre for Entrepreneurship (ECE). In addition, the Research Methods Centre (RMC) is
 internally facing and focuses on delivering a broad range of methods related training to academic
 staff and PGRs. Centres were set up to comprise world-renowned academics, research fellows
 and Distinguished Research Professors (see objective (iii) below). They include experts from all
 specialisations across UEBS. Interdisciplinarity is also ensured through joint memberships across
 centres (e.g. Gerbasi, Parker, Emery, White ExCL/ECSN; Ignatius CSAM/RMC; Maull, Lopez
 INDEX, CSAM). Importantly, the centres drive contributions to the economy and society through
 the development of collaborative relations with major national and international research partners



                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (see Section 4). Below the centres are presented in terms of significant interdisciplinary focus and
 contribution to the research environment.

 The Exeter Centre for Leadership (ExCL), led by Gerbasi and Allen, is the oldest leadership
 centre in Europe, thriving for nearly 22 years. We believe that ExCL is now widely recognised as
 part of the small group of top leadership research groups. It is an interdisciplinary research-led
 group of leadership scholars that includes faculty from Economics (Hauser, Fonseca, Chen)
 Psychology (Ryan) and SITE (Parker). ExCL’s research and impact focuses on three key themes:
 (a) relational leadership (Emery, Erdogan, Fagan, Gerbasi, Lee, Legood, Methot, Parker,
 White); (b) leadership, health and well-being (Adarves-Yorno, Kark, Lang, Leroy, Inceoglu);
 and (c) governance, inclusivity and diversity (Harvey, Ladge, Peters, Sealy, Van Quaquebeke).
 The scope of impact work carried out by the centre includes Chen’s work on emotional response
 to poor customer service and Sealy’s work on gender and board governance. ExCL also runs
 thought leadership events that feature heavily in the media (e.g., the FT, The Telegraph, BBC
 radio) and hosts the Exeter Leadership Partners (ELP) network supporting senior executives
 from a range of industries, which has been successfully running for 20 years. The ELP has
 supported the establishment of the Future of Work initiative (Inceoglu), utilising the partners for
 research-led discussion and collaborations with external organisations.

 The Exeter Centre for Social Networks (ECSN), led by Parker, conducts world-leading empirical
 research on organisational social networks, as well as offering training on cutting edge social
 network research methods. Research focuses on a wide range of organisational issues such as
 leadership (Gerbasi, Emery, Methot, Tasselli, White), knowledge transfer (Lomi, Parker, Perry-
 Smith, Tasselli, White), negative workplace interactions (Gerbasi, Labianca), workgroup conflict
 (Emery, Methot), job attitudes (Fagan, Labianca), wellbeing and individual performance (Fagan,
 Gerbasi, Parker), and social movements (Jasny (UOA19)). Interdisciplinarity is shown through
 the range of methods and paper development workshops jointly held with researchers from
 psychology, statistics and sociology, and seminars supported by key international scholars in the
 field, (e.g., Lomi, Labianca). Members of the Centre have conducted social network research in
 over 100 multinational organisations and government agencies and are currently working on two
 ERDF grants—Future Focus and Smartline—examining networking strategies of SMEs in
 Cornwall.

 The Exeter Centre for Circular Economy (ECCE), led by Charnley and Hopkinson, is an
 interdisciplinary group with staff located in London, Exeter, & Penryn. The Centre is co-ordinating
 14 different projects and teams across the Unit and wider University. The Centre is leading the
 way in the development of the theory and practice in the Circular Economy (CE) and comprises
 bio-scientists (Galloway), engineers (Howard, Zils, Yan), designers (Charnley, Moreno, Lusby),
 social scientists (Pascucci, Boehm) and management scholars (Alexander). The centre currently
 has five UKRI awards with a total value of £6M (involving multiple business and university
 partners). Recently, Hopkinson and Charnley were awarded a major UKRI grant to lead a new
 National Centre for Circular Economy (see Section 3). Galloway (UOA7) and Hopkinson have
 generated significant collaborative research on plastic packaging through the ExeMPLaR project.
 Interdisciplinary links are built around Future Manufacturing Systems (Charnley). Hopkinson is
 funded to help large businesses to direct their thinking towards more CE approaches (REBUILD).
 The Centre’s research also engages significantly in the region. For example, an important South
 West regional CE network was created as part of an EPSRC-funded project on Food and the
 Circular Economy.

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Exeter Initiative in the Digital Economy (INDEX), led by Maull, is an interdisciplinary group
 of academics and practitioners working at the intersection of data science (Lopez, Plans),
 computer science (Brown), operations management and service innovation (Maull), engineering
 (Ahmed-Kristensen) and social science (Thompson, Polykarpou). To maximise its influence
 on policy and practice the group is based in London. The current focus of the Centre is on Digital
 Innovation, Digital Growth, Digital Impact, and Digital Transformation. Brown and Maull have
 received over £5.5M of Digital Economy funding to address the social and commercial
 implications and applications of a range of technologies including cryptocurrencies and next-
 generation AI, and blockchain across several sectors. Funded projects include: The Internet of
 Food (£1M) (Maull); Digitally enhanced advanced service networks (£1M) (Maull, Wood). The
 centre also includes three Alan Turing Institute (ATI) Fellows (Brown, Lopez, Plans). Examples
 of exciting new areas of research and impact include the formation of DIIESL (Digital
 Infrastructure, Innovation and Economy Seminars London) jointly by INDEX and London School
 of Economics, to bring together an interdisciplinary group of ECRs to discuss topics related to
 the digital economy, www.diiesl.org/. Plans focuses on machine learning models of mental health
 and disorder and secured venture capital funding to create a startup, BioBeats (and is the CEO),
 www.biobeats.com/. Lopez is developing AI-powered systems to mitigate online harms and
 protect citizens online with the National Centre for CyberSecurity in Spain and with Google.

 Centre for Simulation, Modelling and Analytics (CSAM), led by Smart, examines three
 targeted themes: Smart Cities (led by Yearworth), Healthcare (Mustafee) and Service Innovation
 (Smart). Ignatius and Disney provide expertise in mathematical modelling and supply chain
 analytics. Awards received by the Centre during the REF period total £2.9M. Examples of funded
 projects include VISTA-AR and Mer-INNOVATE (Interreg), RESIST (NERC), REPLICATE (EU),
 ULTIMATE (EU). The Centre is conducting novel work on immersive technologies and creative
 industries, in particular, Smart’s work on promoting natural and cultural heritage in France and
 the UK using high technology solutions like Virtual Reality and Augmented Reality to enhance
 the visitor experience (VISTA-AR). There is also the work on the “Audience of the Future” funded
 by the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund. Finally, the Centre has an international reach. For
 example, CSAM has hosted several distinguished researchers including the Leverhulme Trust
 Visiting Professorship (Prof. Fishwick, UT Dallas; 2018), ESRC IAA Economic Development &
 Welfare Scheme (EDWAS, Prof. Kumar, IIM, Bangalore) and Prof. Andreas Tolk (MITRE).

 Research Methods Centre (RMC), led by Parker and Ignatius, was set up in September 2018
 and is an internally facing Centre with the aim of developing core research methods within UEBS
 for academic staff and PGR students. The Centre focuses on introductory as well as cutting edge
 methods. In its first year, 25 one-day workshops were offered on platforms such as R (e.g.,
 multilevel, longitudinal, and Bayesian models) and Python (e.g., machine learning), as well as on
 various types of research design. The RMC has expanded its workshop delivery and now offers
 weekly 1-2 hour workshops on topics such as responding to reviewer’s comments, developing
 theory, and insights from journal editors on the publication process. Many of these workshops
 are carried out by the Distinguished Research Professors (see below). In addition, workshops
 have been given by eminent international professors. For example, Prof Antonakis, Editor-in-
 Chief of The Leadership Quarterly gave a workshop on “The Endogeneity problem in mediation
 analysis”.

 The Unit also has The Exeter Centre for Entrepreneurship (ECE), led by Tornikoski, which
 conducts interdisciplinary research drawing on psychology and sociology (Ivanova). It examines

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 drivers behind entrepreneurial processes (Vanacker, Tornikoski) and the practices of
 entrepreneurs (Kannan-Narasimhan), as well as the role of entrepreneurial behaviour in local
 economic, social, and environmental development processes (Molecke, Colombo, Bailey).
 Going forward the Unit has recently established the Exeter Sustainable Finance Centre (ESFC)
 (led by Zhang) as part of its strategy for growth and future development.

 Developing Global Reach and Research Excellence through Distinguished Research
 Professors
 A key strand of our objective of developing global reach was to recruit several Distinguished
 Research Professors (DRPs) to assist in the development of world-leading research and to
 cultivate an ethos of high-performance research activity around a coherent set of disciplines
 (leadership, organisational social networks and research methods). Our reputation and quality of
 research enabled us to attract our world-leading DRPs. They are permanent appointments,
 reviewed every three years and recruited to support the global reach of the Unit’s research and
 impact, through activities that support collaboration, knowledge-exchange and broader
 dissemination with international institutions. The focus of their appointments is also to maintain
 the balance, vibrancy and sustainability of our research environment. They are engaged in setting
 our research agenda, ensuring that there is a close cultural fit between UEBS and them. For
 example, Lomi, Perry Smith, Methot, Tasselli and Labianca participate in the monthly research
 meetings of the Exeter Centre for Social Networks, and Erdogan, Kark, Leroy, Ladge, Lang and
 van Quaquebeke contribute to research seminars and research meetings/brown bag discussions
 of Exeter Centre for Leadership (ExCL). Examples of their engagement within the Unit include
 supporting our early career and mid-career researchers (Section 2), running workshops/webinars,
 giving research talks, providing faculty with feedback for the development of research
 projects/grant proposals/papers, methodological guidance and co-supervision of PhD students.
 For example, Lomi organised a two-day workshop on Relational Event Models for the Analysis of
 Social Networks (June 2019), Methot and Ladge ran a workshop on “Practical implications of
 research and getting media attention.” Erdogan and Perry-Smith ran a workshop on “Insights
 from the Editor”. Finally, the COVID-19 pandemic has led to even greater involvement and
 engagement from the DRPs, enabling them to engage more regularly and via a variety of different
 activities. For instance, in 2020-21, the DRPs will deliver 20 workshops for the Research Methods
 Centre.

 Creating a Culture of Engagement and Impact
 Since the last REF, we have emphasised the importance of impact and engagement with the
 beneficiaries of research. Our emphasis on this has had a transformative effect upon our
 approach, embedding a new character of engaged research across the Unit. This builds on the
 belief that it is not an unanticipated outcome of research, but is something that determines both
 the research questions asked and the answers given for them. This attitude aligns with the
 University’s engaged research approach that focuses on impactful research at an international,
 national and regional level (2.6 ILES). Furthermore, reflecting on our longstanding work with a
 range of private, public and not for profit sectors, we have continued to ensure that non-academic
 users are involved from the outset in shaping research agendas and objectives. These research
 partners include the NHS, the Ministry of Defence, the Bank of England, Her Majesty’s Revenue
 and Customs, EDF Energy, the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, International Finance Corporation,
 the World Bank, Libraries Unlimited, the World Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts. Our
 commitment to engagement is also demonstrated by staff participating in much of the University’s



                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 impact and engagement work. For example, Coles chairs the University’s Public Engagement
 Strategic Advisory Group.

 Structurally, UEBS implemented a range of resources to support impact work/activities across the
 Unit. For instance, there is a dedicated Director of Impact (DoI, Sealy). Where the impact from
 research is burgeoning, staff are given additional workload hours to develop their pathways to
 impact strategies; e.g. Adarves-Yorno was allocated 600 hours in total to establish impact
 activities and UEBS has run several facilitated impact development workshops throughout the
 REF period. Impact case study leads are supported through a range of funding options to help
 with the development of cases (e.g., UEBS impact funds) and the University’s ESRC Impact
 Accelerator Account (IAA) fund awarded £119k funding to support impact initiatives. Funds were
 used, for instance, on RA support; App development (Mustafee); continued data collection; travel
 for impact work (e.g. to Kenya for prisons (Adarves-Yorno); to Rwanda to assist the government
 tax department (Oats); and for setting up development and evaluation workshops (Jeanes). ECRs
 were also supported to help gain a full understanding of impact through dedicated sessions
 organised by the DoI. The University provides support for impact by a dedicated Impact
 Partnership Development Officer.

 As a result, the REF Impact Case Studies submitted by the Unit are wide-ranging. At the regional
 level, Hawkins’ research informed the response to threatened library closures across the whole
 of Devon by co-producing of a new public service mutual (PSM) business model, benefitting
 thousands of local library users; and Mustafee co-developed a digital platform NHSquicker, used
 to reduce pressures on A&E departments at peak times. At the national level, Harris’s work, co-
 produced with Bank of England, led to the mitigation of future losses by improved methods of risk
 management; Sealy’s work catalysed behavioural change in board appointment processes across
 NHS hospital trusts; and Thompson’s work on developing new government policy intended to
 introduce radical, digitally-enabled reform to the NHS. Finally, at the international level, Adarves-
 Yorno’s work on extensive Mindfulness training programmes across 18 high-security prisons in
 Kenya led to increased well-being of prisoners and staff, and Jeanes’s work improved gender
 equality by working with key charities like the World Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts to
 enhance leadership development training and approaches. As a further demonstration of the
 scope and range of impactful work in the Unit, examples of cases not captured in our REF
 submission include Connell’s work with helping to make tourist locations more ‘dementia friendly’;
 Stern’s work on SMEs; Park’s work on exploring the effect of banks’ access to the securitisation
 market; Boehm’s work on increasing productivity for over 500 existing SMEs by developing,
 building and embedding effective innovation processes; and Tharyan’s work on influencing the
 cost of capital decisions in a regulatory context.

 d. Ethics, Responsibility & Sustainability (ERS), Integrity, and Open Access
 Strong commitments to research ethics and research integrity underpin all our systems and
 structures, in line with the University’s commitment to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity
 (2.10 ILES). Taking our direction from the University, we ensure research is carried out to the
 highest ethical, responsible and sustainable standards. All the research by staff and students is
 subject to review by the University Research Ethics Committee (Gerbasi sits on this committee).
 The Director of Research Ethics for UEBS (Bailey) oversees research ethics in the Unit, with
 Departmental Research Ethics Officers overseeing, reviewing and reporting to the RSG. The Unit
 also strives to lead by example in delivering ERS practice in education, research, community
 engagement, corporate partnering and day-to-day operations. As a result, the EQUIS Peer Review

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Report (2016) highlighted the practice as one of the areas of excellence for UEBS. The School is
 a signatory of the UN Principles of Responsible Management Education since 2010, and is also a
 member of ABIS, CABS, EFMD, GRLI and QTEM. These networks enable faculty to make
 outstanding contributions to ERS scholarship. For example, Burns and Jollands delivered the
 prestigious PD Leake lecture (‘Acting in the Public Interest: Accounting for the Vulnerable’) in 2019
 to over 150 academics and practitioners to raise awareness on the issue of how accounting
 practices and technique can make homelessness visible to institutions and organisations.

 Open access is crucial to us in order to make our work widely accessible (2.9 ILES). The overall
 success of our Open Access policies can be evidenced by 916 (78%) of our articles deposited
 within the institutional repository, ORE. The number of downloads of the Unit’s deposited outputs
 between January 2014 and December 2019 represents 9.6% of the ~5M downloads in the
 University. A total of £9k was paid from Institutional OA funds between 2014 and 2020 towards
 publication through the ‘gold route’ on a discretionary basis where outputs are judged to be
 particularly impactful, for example White et al. “Hybrid Context, Management Practices and
 Organizational Performance”, published in the Journal of Management Studies.

 e. Future Strategy
 We are three years into our five-year research strategy, which evolves around extending our four
 key objectives. First, we will continue to increase the number of category-A research staff in
 alignment with the projected growth in student numbers. This will allow us to enhance our
 disciplinary strength within our departments while simultaneously increasing the diversity of our
 category-A staff. Second, our research centres are critical to the continued enrichment of our
 interdisciplinary excellence. We will continue to build strength in our centres, especially in light of
 two major funding awards. Notably, the UKRI funded Circular Economy Hub (four years, £3.3M)
 which has recently been awarded to the ECCE (Charnley, Hopkinson) will allow this centre to
 shape the landscape of circular economy research in the UK. In addition, the EPSRC Next Stage
 Digital Economy Centre that was recently awarded to INDEX (Ahmed-Kristensen, Brown, Maull)
 for their 5-year £12.4M research programme “Digital Innovation for Growth, Impact, and
 Transformation (DIGIT)” will allow for increased interaction with business across the UK. The
 further development of the Exeter Sustainable Finance Centre (ESFC) will allow us to establish a
 major research area in this increasingly important area. Third, we will continue to embed our
 Distinguished Research Professors into our research culture. This has the dual benefit of bringing
 a continuous stream of new ideas and skills from across the world while simultaneously enhancing
 our support for ECRs and PGR students and extending our global reach. Fourth, the research
 centres are also central to how we envision approaching impact and engagement with industry in
 the future. The research centres give us a core strength in key areas and will allow us to develop
 a problem-solving approach to important questions faced by organisations and society in areas
 such as digital economy, circular economy, and sustainable finance.

 2. People

 a. Overview
 Our Unit has cultivated a staff development strategy that focuses on the core values of developing,
 supporting, retaining and recruiting diverse and talented academic staff. The strategy is in line with
 University’s commitment to the Researcher Development Concordat (RDC) (3.8 ILES) and DORA
 (3.3 ILES) reflecting the University of Exeter’s wider policies regarding research careers and
 cultures. These policies have helped the Unit to create an environment in which faculty feel valued


                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and rewarded for success (see 2b), including our postgraduate researchers (see 2c). We have
 also taken significant steps to address equality and diversity in our staff profile, building on the
 intense awareness and reflection with key faculty. Underpinning our best practices for diversity &
 inclusion in our staff development and recruitment processes, we have drawn on our research
 expertise in equality, the pay gap and well-being (see 2d).

 Our staffing strategy and policies have led to a substantial change in the Unit’s profile. As a result,
 the Unit has expanded from 49.05 FTEs research-active category-A staff in REF2014 to 81.2 FTEs
 for REF2021. We are an international and diverse faculty, with 21 nationalities represented, where
 non-UK nationals account for 46% of academic staff and 18% of faculty identify as BAME. In terms
 of gender, 40% of the Unit's category A staff are female, which is equivalent to the average for
 business schools recently surveyed by CABS, but is an improvement on 37% in REF2014.
 Furthermore, we have maintained a positive trajectory for gender balance in recruitment and
 progression (Table 1) and improved the prospects of promotion for female research-active staff
 (Table 2). We have also seen growth in the proportion of female professors (either recruited or
 promoted) from four (8% of eligible staff) in 2014 to 13 (16% of eligible staff) in 2020; the future
 objective is to increase this further.

 Table 1: Faculty Demographic of Category A Staff
  Grade                 Ratio             2014/15   2015/16   2016/17    2017/18   2018/19    2019/20
  Lecturer              Females/Males     0.7       0.8       0.7        1.2       1.1        1.0
  Senior Lecturer       Females/Males     0.8       0.9       1.0        0.9       0.7        1.3
  Ass. Prof             Females/Males     1.2       0.9       1.0        0.8       1.8        1.0
  Professor             Females/Males     0.2       0.1       0.2        0.2       0.3        0.3


 Table 2: Faculty Promotion
                    Applications                Approved
                    Female         Male         Female         Male
  2015/2016         2              0            2              0
  2016/2017         1              3            1              2
  2017/2018         3              1            2              1
  2018/2019         1              5            1              4
  2019/2020         1              1            1              1
  Total             8              9            7              8


 b. Staffing Strategy
 The focus of the staffing strategy is to:
      Attract and retain the very best talent who share the Unit’s values of collegiality, excellence
         and responsibility.
      Provide processes and practices through the Departments whereby all staff and doctoral
         students can develop and perform to the best of their abilities according to their disciplines.
      Use the Centres and Distinguished Research Professors (DRPs) to promote a diverse,
         collegiate and intellectually stimulating environment in which staff and doctoral researchers
         can feel valued and supported in interdisciplinary research and impact.
 The strategy is also designed to ensure that academic staff have the time, resources and support
 to deliver research excellence. In doing so, UEBS has developed a range of organisational

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 processes for staff development and enrichment (such as the Research Methods Centre,
 Departmental Seminar Series, focused Research Centres and Coffee Morning Talks).

 Recruitment
 Our Unit's research strategy relies on recruitment and development to maintain a vibrant, diverse
 and sustainable research environment. Senior staff in the Unit define priority areas for recruitment,
 while also developing hiring practices that allow the Unit to reach into the global market. The hiring
 strategy focuses on attracting high calibre faculty to reinforce the core values of the Unit and to
 strengthen current disciplinary research themes. During this assessment period, examples of
 excellent staff hired in the Departments include Chen and Tse (Asset Pricing), Onali and Zhang
 (Banking and Corporate Finance), Maull (Digital Economy), Gerbasi (Leadership), Disney
 (Operations), White (Management) and Dose (Marketing). Recruitment also led to opportunities
 for new directions to be taken in areas previously not covered by faculty research (e.g.,
 Sustainability and Business (Whiteman), Gender and Leadership (Gloor, Sealy), Circular
 Economy (Charnley), and Digital Economy (Plans). The period also saw the appointments of
 DRPs from international universities to build the research capacity and capabilities of all staff, and
 in particular ECRs.

 Examples of recent hires from non-UK universities since REF2014 include Leroy
 (Netherlands), Gloor (Switzerland), Wihler (Germany), Van Quaquebeke (Germany), Birtch
 (Australia), Tornikoski (France) and Methot (US). The recruitment of junior staff is fundamental
 to the Unit's environment. Since REF2014, our Unit has attracted talented international ECRs (for
 example Fagan (US), Molecke (US), Lopez (Spain), Ivanova (Belgium), Mosleh (US/Iran).
 These appointments are aligned to the Unit's evolving strategic priorities and are instrumental in
 re-shaping the Unit's research culture, building on UoE’s strong commitment to supporting ECRs
 (3.8 ILES).

 Staff development
 Staff development is at the heart of our Unit's staffing strategy. Our approach follows the principles
 and framework set out in The Exeter Academic. The strategy also draws on the Researcher
 Development Concordat framework for attracting and sustaining research careers in the UK and
 for performance expectations and promotion criteria for all faculty from initial appointment right up
 to Professorial level, thus ensuring the continued provision of well-trained, talented and motivated
 researchers that is essential to sustaining research excellence. Our practices also draw on the
 University’s commitment to DORA, to ensure a responsible use of metrics. Since 2018,
 performance and development reviews (e-PDR) also contain a mandatory section on staff
 wellbeing, which facilitates conversations concerning work-life balance. Staff development is
 delivered through the Departments, with practices ensuring an inclusive approach for all staff
 members at all levels. Departments allow staff significant autonomy to follow their research
 interests, impact engagement and practice. All staff are matched to an Academic Lead (AL) (or
 mentor), who are senior research staff in leadership positions. Since the last REF, our Academic
 Lead system has been revised to provide career-stage specific progression and promotion
 support, with each AL supporting staff at a single career stage (lecturer, senior lecturer or
 associate professor, and now formally mentoring postdoctoral researchers). In the Unit, the ALs
 also provide support for research, comment on draft papers, provide feedback on grant
 applications, and discuss staff development on a 1-1 basis. Introduced in
 2016, Contribution meetings for academic staff were implemented to ensure fairness and
 consistency in the formal PDR process. These are held annually with the Head of Department

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (HoD), to review each faculty members' contributions and set their goals. The goals are mapped
 against departmental and UEBS objectives.

 Furthermore, all research staff are encouraged to produce a research plan, which is reviewed in
 the Contribution meetings. This is especially the case for ECRs who are supported by their HoD
 and AL via their research plans and contribution meetings to identify further needs in terms of
 resources (e.g., additional time on their workloads) and opportunities. The recruitment of DRPs in
 particular aligns with our strategy to support the development and career trajectories of ECRs as
 the DRPs are mentors to our ECRs. There are emerging benefits with this relationship in terms of
 producing high quality peer-reviewed publications through co-authorship and supervision. For
 example, Labianca is acting as a mentor to Fagan and they have recently co-authored a paper
 published in the Journal of Applied Psychology, Erdogan and Lee are co-supervising a PhD, as
 are Tasselli and Parker.

 Progression and promotion
 Staff progression is closely monitored and reviewed by the PVC/DPVC and the Human Resources
 Business Partner as well as via the yearly e-PDR process. The University annually runs two
 rounds of promotion to Associate Professor and Professor level. The Unit uses Contribution
 meetings, e-PDR, feedback from the ALs, and the individual development plans to hold targeted
 conversations with which to encourage promotion applications, particularly with female
 academics. Evidence of a supportive staff development approach is that several (14) mid-career
 staff have been internally promoted. Female internal Associate Professors and Professor
 promotions represent 50% of faculty applications (Table 2), which shows significant efforts to
 address the equality and diversity of staff profile from the college executive. Female researchers
 account for nearly half (6/14) of all academic promotions (with six out of seven applications
 successful) in this REF period, evidencing the success of the new policies and support in the Unit.

 Workload, Personal Research Accounts and Study Leave
 The Unit has developed practices and processes to ensure staff have time, resources and support
 to pursue their research. The Workload Allocation Model (WAM) recognises the time required to
 produce excellent research. All staff are supported to balance teaching, research and
 administrative activities via the WAM. With regards to ECRs, all probationers and ECRs
 (Lecturers) have their teaching and administration workloads reduced. All research-active staff are
 given a Personal Development Account (PDA) of £1,000. The purpose of the fund is to allow staff
 to attend at least one academic conference per year and to develop research collaborations and
 networks. PDAs are further supplemented by an additional £2,000, applied for via the HoD.
 Probationers and ECRs, can additionally, apply for the International Advisory Board (IAB) funding.
 Recently, awards were to Molecke (SITE; £10,070) and D'Attoma (F&A; £10,760). Dedicated
 study time is also a priority within the Unit. A total of 1706 study leave days were awarded across
 faculty since 2014. Of these, eight periods of study leave were awarded to female staff from a total
 of 13, compared to two out of eleven during the review period for REF2014.

 c. Postgraduate Research Students (PGR)
 Our Unit is committed to ensuring that our PGR students are well trained, receive high-quality
 supervision and are integrated into the Unit. This commitment begins with the selection process,
 ensuring that the Unit is selecting the students who have the most significant potential to succeed
 in their PhD degree and beyond. Currently, the Unit is revamping its PhD programme and PGR
 strategy. The new model is 1+3, which involves one year of intensive research training (MRes)

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 followed by three years’ work on the chosen PhD topic. The Unit strives to create a vibrant and
 supportive research culture for training the PGR students, collaborating actively with the other
 Colleges in the University to increase the breadth and frequency of training programmes and
 workshops available to the PGR students. To ensure this, a training needs analysis is carried out
 regularly. This is complemented by more focused support from the Unit, such as regular writing
 workshops. In terms of research methods training, PGRs have access to SWDTC advanced
 training initiatives and the Unit's Research Methods Centre, led by Parker and Ignatius. The RMC
 is supported by the DRPs (e.g. Lomi, Lang, and Van Quaquebeke) to strengthen provision in
 quantitative methods and qualitative methods (Ladge). Also, the Doctoral College Researcher
 Development Team provide specific skills training for PGRs focusing on all stages of the PGR
 lifecycle and have also funded an online PGR Careers resource for all PGR students in the
 University.

 To ensure PGRs are integrated into the Unit, all PhD students are co-located (Hope Hall), have
 their own desk, are involved in the Departmental research seminar series, and supported for PhD
 research conferences, such as the annual PhD research conferences in Management, Finance
 and Accounting and the Festival of Doctoral Research. The research seminars involve academics
 from the best schools internationally including Harvard, Chicago and Cornell among others. These
 scholars provide additional bespoke sessions, from informal meetings to workshops, for our PGRs
 during their visits. Our PGRs are also encouraged to co-author with supervisors. Examples of
 high-quality peer-reviewed publications through co-authorship with PGRs, are Dargenidou,
 Tonks and Tsoligkas, Journal of Business Finance and Accounting; Wynter and Oats, Journal
 of Business Ethics; and Colombo, Pansera and Owen, Journal of Cleaner Production. Each
 student has research funds of £1,200 to be used throughout their programme, to support their
 research and present at workshops and conferences. Additionally, PGRs can apply for additional
 funding to present their work at prestigious annual PhD research symposiums or for further data
 collection, workshop attendance and training. The well-being of PGRs is of critical importance to
 us and we actively monitor this in parallel with their academic progress via regular supervisory
 meetings documented through the online MyPGR system.

 Since 2014, 324 PGR students have registered with us. 70.5% of our PGR students have received
 studentships, scholarships or other sources of competitive funding. This includes 13 students with
 full/matched UKRI studentships, and 30 students with international, industry or other scholarships.
 During the REF period, 129 students were awarded a PhD, compared to 95 between 2008 and
 2013, maintaining efforts to achieve high completion rates. We have maintained this level of
 completions per FTE over the current REF period, in light of our significant growth in FTEs.

 Our Unit takes the employability of PGRs seriously. There is great emphasis on helping students
 acquire competences in teaching, research and getting published. As such, all PGRs are
 encouraged to enrol in the University of Exeter Researcher Development programmes. These
 include sessions on career support, opportunities to enhance their research and employability and
 to become part of a vibrant research community. Finally, there are opportunities to attend events
 organised by the GW4 and the ESRC SWDTP, for example, the annual SWDTP Student
 Conference, organised by students. Students’ research is also being recognised, for example,
 Dutt (supervised by Harvey) won one of the 2020 Emerald/EFMD Outstanding Doctoral Research
 Award. Reflecting the emphasis in the Unit placed on investing in the academics of the future,
 PGR students have secured academic positions both in the UK (Aston, Bath, Birmingham, Bristol,



                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 LSE, Queen Mary University of London and Exeter) and overseas (Boston University, Western
 Colorado University, Tsinghua University, and Macau University of Science and Technology).

 d. Supporting Equality, Diversity and Inclusion in the Unit
 In supporting equality, diversity and inclusion, our Unit draws on the very considerable expertise
 and experience of its own staff to develop processes and practices to ensure equality, diversity
 and inclusion (EDI). In terms of research leadership, our commitment to EDI is shown by the fact
 that two of the three Directors of Research in the Unit identify as BAME (Mustavee and Zhang),
 the third is female (Inceoglu). UEBS’s Director of Post Graduate Research (Peters) is female.

 EDI issues are taken seriously, as detailed below, on all matters relating to staff recruitment and
 development (for institutional policy see 3.15 ILES). As a result, the REF period has seen close
 working relations between UEBS staff and the committees to augment and/or create policies to
 support staff and their research. For example, Sealy (gender and leadership), Jeanes (pay gap)
 and Bagnall (diversity). EDI concerns are also key components of the University’s staffing strategy
 with key support and policies. Sealy contributes to the Provost's EDI Commission. This strategy
 is set out in the EDI Vision 2025 “Strong Foundations and Stretching Aspirations”. The University
 abides strictly by hiring and promotion processes recognised as best practices for diversity &
 inclusion, including the responsible use of metrics. The University also holds Athena SWAN Silver
 status for advancing the careers of women, and is a member of both the Globally Responsible
 Leadership Initiative and the UN’s Principles of Responsible Management Education.

 In line with the University’s vision, UEBS has developed processes and practices that recognise
 that achieving diversity in departments must start at the early career level, and must involve
 support throughout that career. For example, UEBS has an active Inclusivity Group, co-chaired by
 the Deputy Pro-Vice Chancellor and the Director of College Operations, which convenes twice per
 term. The Group reviews data and feedback from a wide variety of sources in order to monitor
 progress, support and promote new policies and procedures, and escalate ideas and issues to the
 university-wide inclusivity body. With regard to staff progression in particular, proactive steps are
 taken each year to evaluate pay equity and to address any pay gaps between groups. Examples
 of good practice, with regards to gender balance, include
       ensuring that the website portrays the right mix of male, female and BAME staff
         representation
       review of any potential ‘pay gap’ between male and female staff held each
         year; emphasis being placed on female pay progression
       applying for Athena SWAN accreditation (bronze)
       review of workloads to ensure equity and balance across groups

 Overall, our Unit has worked hard at attracting and developing faculty with a focus on gender
 representation, supporting and developing ECRs and supporting staff with disabilities. An inclusive
 environment is key to the successes of the Unit. In response to the Black Lives
 Matter movement, the Dean and Pro-Vice Chancellor supported anti-racism statements and
 initiated a Black History Month programme, which highlighted our alumni and partners. Our Unit
 has also been making ongoing efforts to focus on staff well-being, not only through ensuring
 balanced workloads but also in providing opportunities to identify and tackle priorities around work
 related stress. For instance, during the pandemic, researchers in the Unit have played a key role
 in the development of initiatives to support staff wellbeing through facilitating social and well-being
 events.

                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 a. Overview
 In this REF cycle, the Unit consolidated its reputation as one of the UK's preeminent business and
 management research groups being ranked 10th in the UK in the CABS 2020 report on research
 income. Through increased support and capacity building we have seen high levels of research
 income per FTE (we are consistently ranked in the top 10 on HESA data for the sector). Our
 success is due to the commitment to internal investment complemented by our external
 collaborations (see Section 4), which were vital to our exceptional performance in terms of
 research awards and income. Our strategy was to increase overall research grant activity with
 more cost-effective and more substantial grants, notably through the various Research Centres
 and the recruitment and retention of key researchers. In sum, since 2018, we have enjoyed a
 period of unprecedented funding success where we have secured awards of more than £11.1M
 and research income of £8.75M over this REF cycle, with over £3.25M secured from UK research
 councils and 3M from the EU. Awards captured by the research centres have also been
 fundamental for developing effective and innovative approaches to impact. Increased involvement
 in multiple, successful large-scale awards and cross-disciplinary research networks has helped to
 shape the Unit’s sustainability going forward as well as providing an outstanding environment for
 postgraduate and early career researchers.

 b. Research Income Strategy
 Over this REF period, the Unit improved its relative position in research grant income and is ranked
 8th nationally, based on the current HESA data (HESA category: Business and Management).
 This has been primarily based on the strategy to generate sustained investment from a wide range
 of funders. Grant income is not sought purely to meet income targets; it is seen as essential for
 the realisation of the Unit's overall research strategy. Consequently the Unit fully supports the
 development of personal research proposals (ensuring all research-active faculty members are
 encouraged and supported to lead research and also nurturing the next generation of researchers) in
 addition to large-scale grant applications via the centres. The Directors of Research (DoR) are
 responsible for overseeing the development of individual research proposals, to ensure staff
 pursue high-quality research endeavours that are focused on increasing disciplinary strengths
 within the departments. Individual research proposals are also supported by College-focused
 Professional Services departments, including Research Support Services. Together with the
 DoRs, they help staff develop their proposals from the initial idea through to the final grant
 applications. The Unit also uses a peer-review process for individual research bids to ensure that
 staff receive timely and constructive feedback, which in turn helps improve the quality of
 applications. Over the REF period, individual awards have come from not only major funders such
 the ESRC (e.g. Shaw £338k), but also important charities. Awards also include a number of
 smaller but strategically important grants in terms of developing new networks and pursuing
 research areas that complement the Unit’s current expertise. Examples since 2014 include the
 British Academy (ten awards, e.g., Boehm, £78k, and Hartley, £26k, £40k), two awards from
 Leverhulme (e.g., Mustafee, £13.5k), the Arts Council (Smart) and the Wellcome Trust (Hartley).
 Increasing research funding in the Unit through the Research Centres attends to the principle that
 bids are research-led and vital for knowledge exchange and impact. The focus is on proposals
 that are collaborative bids with the other University of Exeter Colleges, institutes, centres and
 commercial or public organisations. Over the REF period, the majority of the Unit’s research
 income has come via the Research Centres, and they are an important way in which the Unit
 ensures vitality and sustainability of the research environment. The centres' funding totalled over


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 £3M external research income from the ESRC, EPSRC and the EU. With the current strategy
 refocusing effort to seek funding to tackle significant areas of societal and business challenges
 (e.g., Sustainability, Circular Economy, and Digital Economy), there has been a notable increase
 in funding from the EPSRC during this REF cycle. Significant examples of funding received by the
 Unit’s centres include:

 The Exeter Centre for Circular Economy (ECCE) are currently involved in awards from UKRI
 councils (EPSRC and ESRC) totalling over £7M. Hopkinson and Charnley lead the new National
 Centre for Circular Economy, funded for four years and will co-ordinate 5 new National CE
 resource flow Centres (awarded in October 2020). Example of recent awards include:
     EPSRC Circular 4.0: Data-Driven Intelligence for a Circular Economy (£756k) with partners
        from University of Sheffield, Airbus, Rolls-Royce, Riversimple, MTC, Cisco Systems, The
        Ellen MacArthur Foundation
     EPSRC Connected Everything II (£1.06M) with partners from the Centre for Digital Built
        Britain, PETRAS Internet of Things Hub, Centre for Process Innovation, High Value
        Manufacturing Catapult
     EPSRC - ESRC Network in Re-Distributed Manufacturing, Consumer Goods and Big Data
        (£467k) with partners from the Universities of Cambridge, Exeter, Teesside, Manchester,
        Beijing Institute of Technology, Georgia Institute of Technology, Fraunhofer Institute, Cisco
        Systems, Ellen MacArthur Foundation, IBM, WRAP, Interoute, and the Greater
        Manchester Chamber of Commerce.

 The Exeter Initiative in the Digital Economy (INDEX) has built a network of industrial partners
 to collaborate on translational research grants. Examples of EPSRC programme awards include,
 Made Smarter ‘fast start’ project (£7.7M); Digitally Enhanced Advanced Services Network+ (£1M);
 The Internet of Food Things project (£1.1M); and UK Manufacturing Symbiosis NetworkPlus
 (UKMSN+) which investigates material re-use across the manufacturing supply chain.

 Centre for Simulation, Modelling and Analytics (CSAM) received funding of ~£2.9M for Exeter
 during the REF period. The centre has a number of funded projects including VISTA-AR: Interreg
 FCE Programme (€7.8M, UEBS €1.9M, Smart); REPLICATE: Smart Cities and Communities
 Programme (€25M, UEBS €200k, Yearworth); Supply Chain Optimisation: EPSRC (£391k,
 Boehm). Other projects include Mer-INNOVATE (Smart, Mustafee); ULTIMATE (Mustafee);
 Industrial Strategy Fund (Audience of the Future, Smart), EPSRC (CircularFood, Mustafee) and
 The Leverhulme Trust (Mustafee).

 Finally, the Unit’s research income strategy aligns with the University’s goals around the grand
 challenges of society. In particular, faculty are involved in the University Research Institutes (1.5
 ILES). These initiatives foster and support cross-departmental collaboration and enable
 researchers to work together across departmental and disciplinary boundaries and also with non-
 academic beneficiaries. For example, over the last eight years, a consortium of four UK academics
 from the (Universities of Warwick, Cambridge, Exeter and Surrey) has received funding of
 approximately £8M for the development of the Hub-of-All-Things (HAT, Maull).

 c. Infrastructure and Facilities
 Central support and infrastructure are critical to the success of the Unit. Infrastructure is developed
 and maintained at the College level through the University’s Research Services. They provide
 support in terms of horizon scanning, call-specific advice and assistance with costings and gaining


                                                                                                Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 necessary institutional approvals, with support further enhanced with the development of an online
 Research Toolkit and by a £2.5M investment in a new Research Management system. Our
 industry-facing research is supported by dedicated Innovation, Impact and Business (IIB) partners,
 providing core support in grant development, design and dissemination. IIB also acts as a
 coordinator between academic staff, Directors of Research and Associate Dean of Research and
 other professional services in the university, providing bespoke UEBS-specific advice and helping
 foster and develop external partnerships (see Section 4).

 The facilities extend to five buildings across two of the University's campuses (Streatham and
 Penryn). Four buildings are based at the Streatham Campus in Exeter (Building One, Streatham
 Court, Xfi, Hope Hall). The University's new £5.5M Science and Engineering Research Support
 Facility (SERSF) at the University's Penryn Campus (Cornwall) houses the fifth. Developments in
 Penryn focus on connecting research with practice and policy. Awards for its buildings reflect
 UEBS's deep commitment to ethics, responsibility and sustainability (ERS). For example, both
 SERSF and Building One have achieved a Building Research Establishment Environmental
 Assessment Methodology (BREEAM) 'excellent' rating. BREEAM is regarded as the world's
 foremost environmental assessment method and rating system for sustainable buildings. In
 addition, the unit has a small London base (South Bank), which is an important investment in
 INDEX, as it puts the Centre closer to headquarters of major organisations.

 Further facilities to support research in the Unit include the Finance and Economics Experimental
 Laboratory at Exeter (FEELE), an advanced laboratory for experimental research in social
 science, which is run and administered by the Department of Economics, and the variety of data
 resources available to support Business and Management academic research. These include
 Bloomberg, Business Source Complete, DataStream, EconLit, Emerald, Eurostat, Fame, IBFD
 Tax Research Platform, Nexis, IRRC, OECD i-Library, Orbis, Passport, ProQuest Business
 Direction, ScienceDirect, Scopus, Statista, Supply Chain Analysis, Thomson ONE Banker,
 Thomson Research, UK Data Service, Web of Science, World Competitiveness Online (IMD),
 WRDS and Zephyr.

 The Unit has a Communication and Marketing team to support publicity around key research and
 impact findings. This team uses UEBS communication channels and University social media
 accounts; news articles (appearing on the homepage of the UEBS’s website); press releases and
 email. The Unit also has a dedicated media and PR Officer who liaises with academic staff on
 their research papers, working to translate complex information into press releases which often
 appear in mass media publications as well as specialist press. For example, Lopez’s emotion
 detection engine Lola has so far been picked up by Business Computing, Information Age, Irish
 Tech News, Freight Waves, Electronic Specifier, Engineering and Technology magazine. Zhang’s
 work on employee satisfaction was featured in the Economist. Research news is shared with the
 alumni network. There is a research publications section in the Unit’s termly e-newsletter which is
 received by over 15,000 UEBS alumni, plus the latest UEBS research is showcased through our
 alumni events worldwide, via the Alumni Business podcast and webinar series. These are
 promoted to over 82,000 Exeter alumni in 183 different countries.




 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 a. Overview
 Collaboration with key stakeholders is central to our Unit’s ambition and has been a key objective
 since 2008. Collaboration is built on the belief that the most significant impact on policy and
 practice is only achieved by deep working relations and partnership with stakeholders and
 policymakers at an international, national and regional level. This principle is reflected not only in
 our research but also in the continued achievements in accreditation initiatives (AACSB, AMBA &
 EQUIS). In this REF cycle, the Research Centres have become the focal point for collaboration
 and partnership working, bringing a considerable increase in the range and depth of external
 relationships across a wide range of audiences. As a result, there has been a threefold increase
 in collaborative research awards. This success can be partially attributed to forging new areas of
 research during this REF cycle. For example, the Exeter Centre for the Circular Economy (ECCE)
 and staff focusing on sustainable innovation have developed major institutional level
 collaborations such as the Environmental Intelligence Centre for Doctoral Training (£5M
 UKRI) (Hartley, Hopkinson). ECCE is taking the national lead in establishing a UK wide Circular
 Economy Hub. INDEX is a key partner on the Hub-of-All-Things (HAT) with stakeholders including
 Dyson and GlaxoSmithKline (Maull).

 Crucially, the focus of the Unit’s long-term impact strategy is for the Research Centres to provide
 policy and practice impact that is of the highest economic and social significance. As such, the
 centres are currently set up to sustain the Unit’s impact beyond the current REF period. Examples
 of ongoing work with external stakeholders including policymakers, government departments and
 industry, are Brown and colleagues’ (INDEX) work on harnessing blockchain technology and
 machine learning to enable individuals to securely share their biometric data in real-time to
 improve health outcomes. Also, Smart’s (CSAM) work with the use of AR and VR to enhance
 visitor experiences at cultural heritage sites. Hopkinson’s (ECE) research into the circular
 economy for plastics (calculating the amount of plastics in our homes that come in as products
 and leave as waste) is influencing government policy. Charnley‘s (ECE) work with Rolls-Royce
 and Airbus demonstrates how data collected from products in use, such as aeroengines, can help
 companies adopt strategies for re-using resources. Recently, Maull (INDEX) has been involved
 with a project to automate Gift Aid donations to potentially unlock more than £560M for charities
 every year. There is also the cross-university research initiative, ‘The Future of Work’ (Inceoglu,
 Gloor) which brings together industrial partners, with academics and students from across the
 university to address the changing nature of work in the digital and data centric era. Themes
 include: new technologies, governance structures, business models, and flexible working hours
 and work locations.




 b. Collaboration Strategy
 The main objective for the Unit is to make interdisciplinary and translational research an essential
 feature of the Research Centres. This objective continues to build on the extensive and productive
 relationships with key practitioners and policymakers that have developed over many decades.
 These relationships are frequently supported by the IIB team (who work across the research and
 education landscape) to drive impact, connect with partner organisations and help create
 opportunities for collaboration. Important relationships include local strategic partnerships such as
 Devon County Council, the Local Economic Partnership (LEPs), Devon and Cornwall Fire Service,
 as well as national and international organisations such as HMRC, and the Met Office. Recently,


                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Research Centres have developed many other collaborations with wider stakeholder groups.
 These are where co-production is central to the partnerships (e.g., Amazon, Google, the
 Department of Health & Social Care). The Research Centres also collaborate with each other, for
 example, ECCE and INDEX are working together to explore stakeholder partnerships around
 sustainable plastics.

 Significant examples of our recent external collaborations through the Research Centres during
 this REF cycle include:

       ExCL work with a network of local and national stakeholders to shape their knowledge
        around leadership culture. These include the Devon and Cornwall Fire
        Service (LeGood), Devon & Cornwall Police (Tourky), BMW (Wihler) and Royal Naval
        College and Royal Marines (Harvey). The Centre hosts the Future of Work initiative,
        which has brought together academic staff and professional services firms such as Ernst
        and Young. The initiative has also brought together tech start-ups and local government
        (Inceoglu). The Centre’s work on gender and leadership has continued to focus on
        longstanding relationships with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and Financial
        Reporting Council (FRC), to work on Board Diversity (Sealy).
       ECCE engage the region significantly in their research. The South West Regional Circular
        Economy Network has been created as part of an EPSRC-funded project around Food
        and the Circular Economy. Researchers have worked with Cornwall Council and across
        the South West region to engage a wide range of circular economy stakeholders from local
        authorities to small & medium-sized companies, e.g. Roskilly’s and Prima Bakeries
        (Boehm, Alexander). The Centre has also led the production of a Circular Economy
        roadmap for SW food and agriculture (Boehm, Howard), and has secured research
        opportunities with external partners such as a studentship with CoolEarth (Pascucci).
        These regional networks have worked closely together to build collaborations and to
        engage SME’s, such as through the Tevi project, which involves a network of businesses
        across Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly, interested in growth alongside environmental gains.
        Research in this area has reached into the policy arena via the All-Party Parliamentary
        Sustainable Resource Group (Monciardini).
       INDEX co-produces knowledge and engages in translational research on digital innovation
        with a broad range of governmental and industrial stakeholders. For example, the Centre
        is working with the UK government on digitally-enabled modernisation of services with
        Secretary of State for Health, Matt Hancock MP (Thompson). Members of the centre are
        also providing strategic policy advice and leadership development roles to a broad range
        of organisations including Amazon Web Services (AWS), Centrica, Zoetis, Zurich
        Insurance, Ruffer, Newbury Building Society, Police Information Technology Company,
        and Department for Transport.
       CSAM has a long history of engagement with stakeholders in both the heritage and
        healthcare sectors. For example, a consortium formed with Factory42, the Science
        Museum, the Natural History Museum and Exeter Cathedral (Smart) are shaping the future
        of visitor experience at many renowned cultural attractions. The Centre is a significant
        contributor to the VISTA-AR project, which is a considerable collaboration (£5M) with EU
        partners exploring the use of technology at Heritage and Cultural sites (Smart, Phillips).
        CSAM works with the South West Academic Health Science Network around emergency
        care provision. Colleagues are also involved locally with the Torbay and South Devon NHS
        Foundation Trust, the Northern Devon Healthcare Trust and the Royal Devon & Exeter

                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Hospital (Mustafee). The Health and Care IMPACT Network is run from CSAM
        (Mustafee, Fordyce) (Torbay NHS), to support the development of NHSquicker.

 Collaboration through Teaching
 The Unit's educational programmes have also led to collaboration with key stakeholders. In
 particular, since their introduction in 2017, the Degree Apprenticeship Programmes have grown
 significantly, with currently over 500 students participating per annum. Covering the full range of
 private, local and national government sectors, over 50 organisations are represented on the
 programme. An example of the type of collaboration developing is that of JP Morgan engaging
 with ExCL on leadership research (Gerbasi). The Unit also runs numerous Executive Education
 programmes. The Unit believes that first-class scholarship should be at the heart of our thought
 leadership, which engages practice. That is, collaboration is not based on contract research, but
 through engaged scholarship in helping beneficiaries to shape practice. For example, the
 programme on the Circular Economy (Hopkinson, Charnley) has attracted over four hundred
 senior practitioners from many of the world's leading corporations, including Google, Apple,
 Philips, Renault, Danone, Solvay, BASF, H&M, Ikea and Ricoh. Many of these organisations draw
 on the ECCE’s research to implement and evaluate the circular economy in their home
 organisations (e.g., Hopkinson’s partnership with Google examining circular minerals).

 International Collaborations
 A vital element of the current strategy is to develop international partnerships, and to be proactive
 and strategic in becoming more global. Already, the Unit is seeing increased international
 collaboration through the centres coupled with the investment in the DRPs. For example, Erasmus
 University (Tasselli, Leroy) and University of Kentucky (Labianca) on organisational social
 networks andUniversity of Zurich and Copenhagen Business School on Digital Leadership. The
 Unit has now appointed an Associate Dean Global (Harvey) who has oversight for developing
 relationships with international Universities for research collaboration.

 Examples of significant university collaborations include:
     ENF - Europe Network Fund - a central Global Partnerships fund to facilitate increased
       collaboration with a small number of universities in Europe. Awards were made to Emery,
       Inceoglu, Krammer, Ivanova.
     QUEX – A centrally funded joint institute between the University of Queensland and Exeter
       funds various activities aligned to the themes of Global Environmental Futures’; ‘Healthy
       Living’; and ‘Digital World and Disruptive Technologies. The Unit holds a QUEX Initiator
       Grant Scheme award (Hopkinson), two QUEX Accelerator Grant Scheme awards
       (Hartley, Inceoglu) and one QUEX PhD (Coles)
     DUKE – Centrally funded research scheme matched with Duke University. The Unit has
       one award (Binner, Fonseca)
     FUDAN – Fellowship for funding for Exeter staff to travel to Fudan University (Zheng).

 c. Contribution to Academic and Professional Learned Societies.
 Faculty in the Unit are noticeable contributors to the development of their respective disciplines
 and related professional associations. As a reflection of their achievements in the field, staff have
 links with many professional associations for example: Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences;
 British Academy, Royal Society for the Arts, Academy of Management, Production and Operations
 Management Society, International Federation of Operations Research and Management
 Science, EURO-The Association of European Operational Research Societies, Association for

                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Computing Machinery, The UK Operational Research Society (ORS), European Operations
 Management Association, IEEE Technology and Engineering Management Society, and the
 British Computer Society. Staff contribute to the running of the scholarly societies, for example,
 Mustafee serves as the Special Interest Group (SIG) representative for the 15 SIGs of the ORS,
 Disney is a member of the South Wales Operational Research Discussion Society, and Gerbasi
 is on the executive committee of the Academy of Management Organizational Behavioural
 Division.

 Contributions to Academic Journal Editing
 Contributing to the wider research base is an important aim of the Unit. Staff are encouraged to
 take an active role and as such serve on the editorial boards of 80 leading journals, with 13
 members in senior editorial roles. Examples of senior editorial roles include the following; Erdogan
 is Editor-in-Chief of Personnel Psychology, Yearworth is an Editor of the European Journal of
 Operations Research (EJOR), Disney is the Associate Editor (AE) of European Journal of
 Industrial Engineering EJIE, Tornikoski is the AE of the Journal of Small Business Management
 and EAB member of the Journal of Business Venturing and Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice,
 Parker is AE for Decision Sciences, Islam is AE for Technological Forecasting and Social Change,
 and Krammer is EAB for the Journal of World Business. Maull and Smart served as Co-Editors
 for the International Journal of Operations and Production Management, Van Quaquebeke is an
 AE of the Leadership Quarterly, Mustafee is an AE of the Journal of Simulation, Howard is an AE
 of the Journal of Supply Chain Management, Inceoglu is an AE of the Journal of Personnel
 Psychology, Onali, is an AE of the British Accounting Review, and Rowlinson was the Senior
 Editor (SE) of Organization Studies. Faculty are also on Editorial boards of leading Business and
 Management journals, including Business History (Rowlinson), Academy of Management Review
 (Rowlinson), Accounting and Business Research (Dargenidou, Livne, McMeeking), British
 Journal of Management (Trojanowski), Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice (Vanacker),
 European Accounting Review (Livne), European Journal of Operational Research (Disney),
 Human Relations (Emery), International Journal of Operations and Production Management
 (Phillips), Journal of Business Research (Zhang), Journal of Business Venturing (Vanacker),
 Management Decision (Kannan-Narasimhan), Organization Science (Lomi), Organizational
 Behavior and Human Decision Processes (Van Quaquebeke) and The Leadership Quarterly
 (Gerbasi, Peters)

 Fifty members of staff from the Unit gave keynote addresses at major conferences over the REF
 period, notable ones include:
      Boehm - ‘Carbon Fetishism’, keynote address at University of Hamburg, Germany,
         December 2016
      Disney – ‘The bullwhip effect in supply chains’, The EURO Working Group on Stochastic
         Modeling, Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium, July 2016
      Lomi, Modeling Organizational and Institutional Complexity Fourth Agent-Based Models
         of Organizational Behavior (ABMO4) Free University of Bozen-Bolzano, Italy, May 2019
      Oats, 31st International Congress on Social & Environmental Accounting Research, St
         Andrews, August 2019
      Pascucci Business models for sustainability in the transition to a circular economy,
         Wageningen University (NL), March 2018
      Sealy European Academy of Management Corporate Governance, Portugal, June 2019,
         and International Corporate Governance Society, Essex, October 2019.
 UK Research Council Commissioning Panels

                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A number of staff are members of the ESRC and/or EPSRC Peer Review Assessors College. For
 example, Shaw is one of the ESRC Fellows of the Peer-review College, and Coles and
 Trojanowski are Senior Members of the ESRC Peer Review College. Bessant, Ahmed-
 Kristensen and Mustafee are full members of the EPSRC Peer-review College, and Maull and
 Yearworth are Associate Members of the EPSRC Peer Review College. There are also many
 international grant giving bodies where staff have been reviewers.

 Recognition and Honours
 Faculty have been recognised with honours and awards from a range of external bodies.
 Whiteman is on the World Economic Forum’s new Global Council on Frontier Risk, Sealy is in
 the People Management’s inaugural Diversity & Inclusion 2020 Power List, Harvey is International
 Research Fellow (IRF) of the Oxford University Centre for Corporate Reputation. Rowlinson was
 awarded the Best Full Paper in the Management and Business History Track at the BAM2020
 Conference In The Cloud. Gloor was given the best paper award AOM 2020.

 d. Concluding remarks
 Our statement demonstrates our achievements deriving from our research strategy of
 strengthening our disciplines and investing in our centres to deliver impactful research. Our
 structures and practices show our commitment to supporting researchers at all levels and
 backgrounds. We continue to strive for improvement and we are confident that our growing
 reputation for world-leading research and impact will continue into the future.




                                                                                         Page 23
