Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Central Lancashire

 Unit of Assessment: 28 HISTORY

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

History at the University of Central Lancashire (UCLan) sits in a civic university whose key
strategic commitments include ‘Research’ and ‘Region’. We build on REF 2014 research
strengths in modern labour and political history, much of it regionally embedded and public
facing. History has submitted to every research assessment from the University’s
incorporation in 1992 and is one of its most firmly established research subjects with
interdisciplinary links to politics, law, Asia-Pacific studies, media studies, and fashion and
textiles.
History is taught in the History and Politics subject group of the School of Humanities,
Language and Global Studies, which embraces five UOAs: History, Philosophy, English,
Languages, and Area Studies. The School in turn lies within the Faculty of Culture and
Creative Industries which contains 112 active researchers and eight of UCLan’s 19
submitted UOAs. There is a full-time Faculty Director of Research, and research leads are
designated for each School and each UOA. Professional support is provided by the
University-wide Research Services section (see REF 5a) and a full-time Faculty bidding
support officer. Academic direction of research is principally through a network of research
centres and institutes within and between faculties (see below).
This time History submits 14.6 FTE staff including two Early Career Researchers (ECRs),
compared with 11.2 FTE and no ECRs in 2014. Most are from the History and Politics
subject group, but the submission includes include three academics from other areas:
Mihalopoulos (Asia-Pacific Studies), Toogood (Forensic Science), and Orr (Law). Two
PhD-qualified historians closely associated with this UOA are submitted in other UOAs:
Constable (History and Politics) in UOA 25 and Hobbs (Journalism and Media) in UOA 34,
part of an expanding pool of staff in the humanities working on historical topics.
Our primary aim in REF2014 was to develop research with public engagement in labour,
social and regional history, and this we have done. We continue to capitalise upon our
position in north-west England, with its national concentration of museums, libraries and
archives for labour and people’s history. This allows us to produce work of national scope
and importance while at the same time supporting regional and local organisations in a
range of projects involving co-production of research. This aligns with the University’s
commitment to the ‘Preston model’ of supporting local service providers and has
contributed to the University’s Silver Engage Watermark from the National Centre for
Public Engagement in 2020 (see Ref 5a). International history, flagged as an emerging
field in 2014, has developed strongly. Our other aims were to build up the postgraduate
body, develop external funding and partnerships, and enhance public engagement, all of
which are evidenced below.
Our two impact case studies are both regionally rooted projects with national and
international dimensions. ‘Peterloo 1819-2019’ demonstrates an integrated continuum of
academic work, third-sector partnership, and public engagement around the theme of the
contested origin of democracy in early industrial Britain. ‘The Great Gift’ recovers the story
of the early consolidation of the National Trust through the donation of extensive land in
the Lake District in response to the First World War. This connects in turn with our
involvement in the AHRC First World War Public Engagement Centre network in
collaboration with the University of Hertfordshire. Our work on the Preston-based Teetotal
movement, featured as part of a 2014 Impact case study, has continued to engage both

                                                                                        Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
social welfare professionals and the general public. Our collaborations with museums,
libraries, archives, and historic sites in the region and beyond have developed and
expanded. In 2019 the University set up a partnership with Preston’s Harris Museum and
Library to help enhance and develop its collections and public engagement programmes in
the period to 2024, in connection with a major HLF-funded redevelopment (section 4
below).
International history has expanded greatly through the work of a number of staff: Colman
on international relations in the cold war; Sharples and subsequently Copley on cultural
heritage in modern Germany; Frank on British colonial development in Africa through the
Barclays Bank archive; Constable and Mihalopoulos on Asian History; Westaway on
mountaineering, imperialism and environment; Toogood on environmental science and
ecology in Britain and America; Poole on the culture of the space age in Britain and the
USA (although recent outputs are not submitted this time round); and Mansfield’s two
books, Soldiers as Workers and Soldiers as Citizens on the social history of the British
army during its period of imperial expansion. All this has raised the profile of UCLan
historians, who have between them given 13 invited plenary and keynote conference
papers in the UK, advised on several exhibitions in the UK and Germany, and been
awarded 7 visiting fellowships at institutions in the UK, France, the USA, and Australia.

Strategy 2021-2027
Our future strategy is founded on the Centre for Research in History and Public
Engagement with the Past, established within the Faculty’s Arts and Humanities Research
Academy in 2019-20 as part of a University-wide strategy of concentrating research in
research centres and interdisciplinary academies. (The physical launch event, originally
planned for April 2020, has been postponed until September 2021 owing to Covid). This
follows on from the expansion in 2019-20 of the School of Humanities, Language and
Global Studies to embrace five UOAs (History, Philosophy, English, Languages, and Area
Studies). Membership of the Centre includes all academic staff considered eligible for the
History UOA; colleagues doing history-related work in disciplines such as Business
Studies, Journalism & Media, Law, and Fashion & Textile Design; history-related
postgraduate students; and external associates from public and third-sector bodies. It sits
alongside other UCLan Research Centres: Asia-Pacific Studies; Migration, Diaspora and
Exile (MIDEX); the Vladimir Vysotsky Centre for Russian Studies; the well-established
Institute for Black Atlantic Research, which includes a substantial historical element (Rice,
Kaufmann, and Hoernman, submitted to UoA 27); and the trans-disciplinary University
Research Centre for Digital Life.
The Centre for Research in History and Public Engagement with the Past aims to use the
established academic expertise of historians to raise both the quality of research and the
depth of public engagement with the past across the University, and so to expand the
range, interdisciplinarity, and public footprint of historical research. In collaboration with the
Arts & Humanities Research Academy, the Centre will:
   •   support and develop history and heritage related work across disciplines;
   •   foster and support interdisciplinary projects;
   •   facilitate external collaboration and funding bids, bringing in associate members
       from partner institutions (such as the Harris Institute and Lancashire Archives);
   •   increase postgraduate numbers and develop postgraduate culture by incorporating
       masters and research students formally within the centre, providing seminars,
       training and networking events;
   •   mentor early career and developing researchers;
                                                                                           Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   support colleagues to develop research with impact and to effectively disseminate
       their work to wider audiences.

This restructuring has already assisted with interdisciplinary work in History during the
REF2021 assessment period. O’Cathain (History) and Mihalopoulos (Asia-Pacific Studies)
work on international labour migration in association with MIDEX. Constable, an
interdisciplinary historian submitted in UoA 25, has published innovative historical work on
Indian religious missions, Thai art, and Buddhist accounting practices. Poole has worked
on Peterloo-related projects with colleagues in Marketing, Media, and Deaf Studies, and
contributed sessions on historical narrative and graphic novels at creative writing events in
Preston and Manchester.

How we support a culture of ethics & integrity
We benefit from the University’s outstanding Research Services section, as set out in the
Institutional Environment statement, which operates policies on Research Ethics,
Responsible Use of Research Metrics, working within the Equal Opportunities and Athena
Swan strategies. The Ethics policy enabled the Burnley Heirloom oral history project
(Section 4) to go ahead. As set out in Section 4, our regional position and our commitment
to public engagement has entailed significant work with some of the most disadvantaged
communities in the UK, including history-based community projects in Preston, Burnley,
and Manchester.

Open Access
History research at UCLan has reached wider audiences in recent years through a variety
of channels, from academic Open Access publication, through affordable trade publication
to exhibitions and public engagement (as described in REF5a). All history articles are
available Open Access via the University’s research repository, CLoK, either immediately
or as soon as publisher embargoes allow. Through the University’s Open Research Fund
and other sources we have paid for 4 ‘Gold’ Open Access articles in History during the
REF2021 period: Poole’s 35,000-word history of the radical Manchester Observer
newspaper linked to the digitised edition of the paper on the John Rylands Library site;
Westaway’s article ‘That Undisclosed World’ (2014), which for many years was the most
downloaded article in the journal Studies in Travel Writing (1,959 downloads in December
2020); Westaway’s ‘The Inuit discovery of Europe?’ in Atlantic Studies (published online 2
Nov 2020); and Mihalopoulos’s book chapter on ‘Rethinking the Maria Luz incident’, in
New Frontiers in Japanese Studies (Routledge, 2020). An OA book, A Fleet Street in
Every Town: the Provincial Press in England 1855-1900 by Andrew Hobbs, a historian
submitted to UoA 34, has registered 1,182 free downloads up to 31 July 2020. Poole’s
2019 book Peterloo: the English Uprising (REF 2) was published at trade price by OUP
and has sold over 300 copies at discounted prices to regional audiences attending events
in the Peterloo bicentenary programme. The associated graphic novel affordably published
by New Internationalist, has sold over 4,000 copies, reaching a younger and more diverse
audience, while an educational version has been distributed free to schools all over the UK
(see the Impact Case Study). Westaway’s work on the history of mountaineering has been
opened to the public through free exhibitions, the 2018 Kendal Mountain Festival, and an
article in the mountaineering publication Alpine Journal. More generally, our support for
regional projects involving co-production of research has generated a wide range of freely
accessible exhibitions, public lectures, events, booklets, films, and online source material,
including elements of the University’s special collections (see Sections 3 & 4).




                                                                                      Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

Evidence about staffing strategy and staff development
All 13 current staff (11.6 FTE) in the History & Politics subject division of our School are
now research-active and submitted to REF2021, compared with 11 out of 13 in 2014 (9.2
FTE). All 14.6 staff submitted to UOA28 are (or were) on permanent contracts and all
receive at least the standard University allowance for research of one day per week on
average (400 hours p.a).
There have also been four Senior Research Fellows in post throughout the REF2021
period (Mansfield, McAllister, Poole, Westaway), sharing a total research workload of 2.0
FTE. Poole’s appointment in 2013 was one of 20 Guild Research Fellowships established
across the institution to mark the 2012 Preston Guild, a major civic festival which takes
place once every twenty years. Poole and Mansfield have been promoted to Professor
during REF2021, while two historians in other schools, Hobbs (School of Journalism, UoA
34) and Toogood (School of Forensic Science, this UoA), have been promoted to Reader.
Three staff returned in 2014 have retired (Williams, Mills, Caunce), and one has left for
another university (Gritt). Of four new full-time appointments (Green, Sharples, Copley and
Southern), three are ECRs (Green, Copley and Southern) and three are female (Green,
Sharples and Copley). Green, Sharples and Copley have been supported to publish their
first books. All recruitment has been in the targeted fields of research strength: regional
and public history, and international history. Research targets are addressed in the annual
appraisal each autumn, which covers the support needed to meet them (including
extensive staff training programmes operated by Research Services), and staff have an
annual opportunity to apply for promotion.
Of the three ECRs, one went on to a post at the University of Essex while the other two,
Southern (a recent UCLan PhD graduate) and Copley, have both been fast-tracked for
sabbatical semesters in 2021. For Copley, funding for two visits to Berlin enabled her to
build on her 2016 Dyos Prize for urban history to produce a book Nazi Buildings, Cold War
Traces and Governmentality in Post-Unification Berlin (Bloomsbury, 2020). Southern’s
annual workload includes an allowance to support community projects and bidding activity
(see sections 1 and 4). He has received internal funding to give papers at overseas
conferences on business history in Stockholm and the USA, and his sabbatical will be
used to work on his first book on Lancashire cotton industry in the late 19th and 20th
centuries.
A University-wide sabbatical scheme ran until 2015-16, before being replaced in 2017-18
by a competitive sabbatical scheme at Faculty level, supplemented in 2018-19 by a
University-wide Catalyst scheme. History has done well, with 7 historians having the
opportunity to take one-semester research sabbaticals within the REF period: Colman,
Meredith, Westaway, O’Cathain, Copley, Southern, and (in UOA 34) Hobbs. (Two more,
Constable and Mihalopoulos, have since been awarded sabbaticals for 2022/23). In
addition, Vernon was released from the administrative duties of a Principal Lecturer in
2017-18 to focus on research and write an anniversary history of UCLan using the
University’s special collections, following his published article on the new universities (REF
2). All in all, more than half the History team have been granted sabbatical semesters in
the current REF cycle, recognising the labour-intensive scholarly character of our
research. Research mentoring of ECRs is carried out by the History research lead (Poole),
who also conducts research appraisals of several other historians in connection with the
appraisal process.



                                                                                       Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Equality and diversity
Members of UOA28 are guided by UCLan’s strong equality and diversity policies, as set
out in the institutional statement. Although our own profile is less diverse than that of the
University as a whole, three of our four new appointments since 2014 have been female.
We are part of the Athena SWAN project initiative set in motion by the School of
Humanities in 2019. This has featured a sustained programme of staff awareness, a
survey and data collection process, a series of interviews, and an open forum. This has
identified specific needs from underrepresented groups, including a mentoring programme
and training on academic publication and promotion, which we are addressing with the aim
of gaining a Bronze award in 2021. We also have a strong ethos around widening
participation in and access to history. This is linked to our regionally focussed research
and public engagement, particularly around our Preston and Burnley campuses, which sit
in districts characterised by high levels of deprivation. We believe this ethos lies behind the
number of local students who have recently gone on to postgraduate study with us. The
Peterloo 1819 impact case study was centred on boroughs of Greater
Manchester⎯Oldham, Rochdale, and Manchester itself⎯with some of the highest levels
of deprivation in the country, reconnecting them with the historic struggle for democracy
and civil rights two centuries before (as set out in the Peterloo Impact Case Study). Among
the community projects supported by Mansfield’s AHRC-funded Everyday Lives in War
network (section 4) was ‘Out of the Shadows’, organised with the Manchester-based Black
heritage organisation ‘Southern Voices’. Social inclusion and ethnic diversity are also core
elements of the project to renovate and regenerate Preston’s Harris Museum and Library
in which UCLan is a partner (Section 4).

Research Students
Our PhD programme has yielded 15.25 completions over the cycle, involving 14 History &
Politics staff in supervision, an average of 1.1 per FTE (compared with 4.25 and 0.4 per
FTE in the previous cycle). In addition, one PhD student on an AHRC collaborative
doctoral award was co-supervised at the University of Hertfordshire/National Archives by
Poole, while Mansfield has co-supervised a PhD at Manchester Metropolitan University,
submitted in 2020. This last is part of the extensive First World War postgraduate/early
career researcher network co-founded by Mansfield on behalf of all five First World War
Engagement Centres. This has over 60 members and has organised several meetings,
workshops, and conferences, as well as several conferences (below). Work for the
network has helped former UCLan research student Swift and research assistant
Wilkinson into posts at Ben Gurion University, Israel, and the University of Wolverhampton
respectively.
Of the 15 PhD awards achieved since 2014, 5 were female, 4 were international students,
and 3 were UCLan graduates assisted with fee waivers, one of whom was the first in her
family to go to university. A 16th PhD, passed in late 2020 and due to be awarded in early
2021, was also a fees-assisted UCLan graduate. In addition, to help counter funding and
recruitment issues at PhD level, a Masters in Research programme was put in place in
2016 to provide a pathway towards research degrees. Of 33 MRes graduates to 2020, 26
have been UCLan graduates. Two have continued to study for PhDs, one with us and one
(who began her university career as one of our own local Foundation degree students) at
the University of Salford. A new interdisciplinary MA in Applied Heritage Studies was
validated in 2020, building on existing strengths in History and related disciplines across
the University.
Training in research skills is run by Research Services. It is mapped to the Vitae
Researcher Development Framework and has held the HR Excellence in Research award
for the past eight years. Members of the History team contribute to this provision. All
                                                                                        Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
History research students receive training/support in negotiating the PG life-cycle, in a
wide range of qualitative and quantitative research methods, and in professional
development and career planning. Postgraduate students (both research and taught) are
integrated into the unit’s research culture, and attached to the research centre,
participating in seminars with invited internal and external speakers, workshops and other
research events. They take part in the annual research symposium, and the annual MRes
dissertation presentation event is run by the students themselves as a day conference
open within the University.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income
History research income paid directly to the University over the REF period was £99k, with
a further £28k arising from research activity raised in other ways, making £127k all told.
The majority of the direct funding, £69,000, was from Mansfield’s role as Co-Investigator
on the AHRC-funded ‘Everyday Lives in War’ project, the First World War Public
Engagement Centre based at the University of Hertfordshire, and from his leadership of an
associated Collaborative Doctoral Award project on ‘Patriotic Labour in the Great War’.
The First World War Centre also provided £10K for Vernon’s Lancashire-based project
‘Beyond the War Memorial’ (see Section 4). The association with the University of
Hertfordshire also brought together Poole (UCLan) and Navickas (Herts) in a pair of
projects on the extensive Home Office papers in the National Archives: a British Academy
small grant of £9k (paid via UCLan) for a pilot cataloguing and digitisation project, and an
AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award of £62k with the National Archives (paid via Herts) for
work on the same papers (Bend, graduated 2018). Poole’s Impact Case Study work on the
Peterloo bicentenary was supported by £7k in consultancies from Manchester Histories
and the community film organisation ReelManchester. There was also Heritage Lottery
Fund support for McAllister’s 2013-14 exhibition on ‘Temperance and the Working Class’
at the People’s History Museum, Manchester; £6k of AHRC and Lottery Fund money for
two history of science projects by Toogood in 2013-16 (the West Highland Survey 1943-
57, and OPAL), and £3k of AHRC support for a Creative Exchange project undertaken by
Wilkinson as a research assistant/associate.
Approximately £28k of research funding came direct to individual staff through a variety of
other sources. McAllister’s 2018 ‘Radical Temperance’ conference at UCLan gained £2k in
funding from Alcohol Concern UK and the Alcohol and Drugs History Society; Poole’s work
on Peterloo educational resources was funded by about £4k from English Heritage
(Schools); and small grants came from sources such as the Toni Schiff Memorial Fund
(Sharples) and the Scouloudi Foundation (Copley). There have also been seven research
fellowships awarded directly to individuals, valued at approximately £21k in total:
   •   a scholarship at St John’s College, Oxford, for study of ‘Women in freshwater
       science’ in 2016 (Toogood, value £5k);
   •   a 2019 Fellowship at Churchill College, Cambridge with a grant from the John
       Antcliffe Memorial Fund (Meredith, £3k);
   •   a 2013-15 visiting fellowship at the School of Humanities, University of Hertfordshire
       (Poole, £3k);
   •   a 2016 short-term visiting fellowship at the National Air and Space Museum,
       Smithsonian Institution, Washington, DC (Poole, $3k/2.5k)
   •   a 2020-1 visiting fellowship at the Sorbonne, Paris (Poole, £3k);
                                                                                      Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   the 2019-20 Curran research Fellowship from the Research Society for Victorian
       Periodicals (McAllister, $3k/£2.5k);
   •   and a Sasakawa foundation grant in 2020 for archival work in Japan (Mihalopoulos,
       £2k).
In addition, £12k of UCLan’s HEIF funding was invested in community history projects in
the region (Section 4), bringing the total of external research finding accruing to History to
£150k over the REF cycle. In October 2020 Mihalopoulos was awarded a three-month
National Library of Australia Fellowship for 2021 ($A23k, £12k).

Significant archives or collections
The University’s special collections site is at www.UCLan.ac.uk/students/library-
it/library/special-collections. Its most important element is the 5,000 volumes of the Livesey
Collection, the UK’s leading collection on the temperance movement which was founded in
in Preston in 1832 by Joseph Livesey. Building on McAllister’s 2012-13 exhibition at the
People’s History Museum, in 2018 we organised a conference on Radical Temperance
which brought together an international body of researchers and acted as a growth point
for multi-agency work on alcohol addiction (see section 4). In connection with this
approximately 10,000 pages from unique periodicals such as The Struggle and The
Preston Temperance Advocate have been digitised in-house by UCLan Special
Collections staff and made available at the Special Collections site. Images from the
collection, including over 400 lantern slides, have reached wide audiences through
McAllister’s website www.demondrink.co.uk and associated Twitter feed (@demon_drink),
and are now available on JISC Community Collections.
Following on from this, we have begun digitising volumes from other parts of the collection,
such as the Wainwright Collection of north-west regional material. The special collections
also house the University’s own archives, going back to the establishment of a Mechanics
Institute in 1828, which were used by Vernon for an anniversary history of the University in
2018 (sales of which have raised £1200 for a bursary fund), accompanied by a University
history trail (now student-led on open days), a study day, an exhibition, and an oral history
project on the Harris Institute 1945–54. As part of the ‘Unlocking the Harris’ project
(Section 4), we anticipate housing some of the collections of Preston’s Harris Library,
which would allow for more collaborative work and digitisation.
Historians at this University have been consistently involved in the accessible development
of important collections in the region, including: Lancashire Archives (especially the Hulton
collection); the National Co-operative Archive; the John Rylands Library (especially the
Peterloo collection – see the Impact Case Study); the People’s History Museum, with its
National Banner Collection and its Labour History Archive and Studies Centre (for which
UCLan has digitised material); Manchester Central Library and the John Rylands Library
(Peterloo collections); Chetham’s Library Manchester (Hay papers); and (through the
Home Office Papers project mentioned above) important regional material in the National
Archives.




                                                                                        Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
The most significant set of collaborations has been through the work of Nick Mansfield, a
Senior Research Fellow and more recently Professor of History at UCLan, supporting the
First World War centenary. From 2014 to 2019, Mansfield led the north-west region of the
AHRC Everyday Lives in War Public Engagement Centre, based at the University of
Hertfordshire in partnership with the universities of Central Lancashire, Essex, Lincoln, and
Northamptonshire. (See Section 2 and https://everydaylivesinwar.herts.ac.uk/fwwnetwork/)
This was built upon the network of scholars whose work was drawn together in two
publications edited by Mansfield which appeared in the autumn of 2014: The Great War,
Localities and Regional Identities (Cambridge Scholars Press) and The Great War and the
North West (a themed issue of the Manchester Region History Review). Four Everyday
Lives in War conferences were co-organised in the region.
   •   ‘Ex-Servicemen after the Great War’ (PHM, 2015), following on from the People’s
       History Museum’s Heritage Lottery Fund supported exhibition ‘A Land Fit for
       Heroes’ (2014);
   •   ‘The First World War: Commemoration and Memory’ (Imperial War Museum North,
       Salford, 2016);
   •   ‘Britain and the Easter Rising (UCLan, 2016); and
   •   ‘Reappraising the Representation of the People Act 1918’ (UCLan, 2018), in
       association with the People’s History Museum exhibition ‘Represent! Voices 100
       Years On’.
The sequence was concluded by a national conference, ‘The First World War: Past
Present and Future’, held at Edinburgh Napier University in June 2019. These conferences
provided a focus for the First World War postgraduate/early career researcher network,
with a national remit and over 60 members, organised by Mansfield on behalf of all five
First World War Engagement Centres.
Several publications resulted. A book of essays, Veterans of the First World War
(Routledge, 2019), was edited by PhD student Swift and project researcher Oliver
Wilkinson. Swift’s PhD, the fruit of an AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award, was published
as For Class and Country – The Patriotic Left and the First World War (Liverpool
University Press, 2017). Work from the project featured in the AHRC publication Beyond
the Trenches: Researching the First World War. Swift and Mansfield also assisted with
research and loans for an exhibition entitled 1917: Revolution, Russia and Europe at the
German Historical Museum in Berlin in the autumn of 2017.
The Everyday Lives in War network also supported a range of academic and community
history projects in the north-west, such as the ‘Out of the Shadows’ project (mentioned in
Section 2). Vernon’s project, ‘Beyond the War Memorial’ (2015-17) involved co-produced
research with local community groups on the social and educational effects of the First
World War in Preston and an exhibition at the Harris library. This has in turn generated
several public talks and conference papers and a published article. One project volunteer
has gone on to do an MA by Research with us. In connection with this we can also
mention Westaway’s Impact Case Study on the ‘greatest war memorial of all time’, the
‘Great Gift’ of 14 Lakeland peaks to the National Trust in the interwar years, which was the
focus of the National Trust’s 2018 First World War commemoration.
www.nationaltrust.org.uk/great-gable2018.



                                                                                      Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
O’Cathain has been involved in several community-focused research projects in Scotland
and Ireland as part of the Irish government's ‘Decade of Centenaries’ project. As an
historical consultant to the 1916 Rising Centenary Committee Scotland in 2016, he co-
edited and contributed to a book on the rising (Coyle & Mairtin O'Cathain, We Will Rise
Again: Ireland, Scotland and the Easter Rising (Glasgow, 2018); gave a talk at the
headquarters of the Scottish Trades Union Congress in Glasgow, and contributed to other
public engagement activities supported by the Irish Consulate in Edinburgh and the Ireland
2016 Global and Diaspora Fund. In 2017-18 he worked alongside historians from the
universities of Glasgow and Strathclyde as a consultant to Glasgow City Council’s Irish
and Scottish Famine Memorial outside the People's Palace Museum; and drafted text for a
mobile exhibition for schools across Scotland. In Northern Ireland he worked with a
community history project funded by the Northern Ireland Housing Executive on the history
of the Rossville Flats complex in Derry, a focal point of the violence of the Troubles, and
contributed an historical introduction to Rossville Flats: the rise and fall, compiled by Jim
Collins (Derry: Guildhall Press, 2019). In 2020 he worked as a historical consultant to the
Bloody Sunday Trust and Museum of Free Derry, producing an exhibition on the centenary
of the sectarian riots during the Anglo-Irish War and a local folklore heritage trail as part of
the TRIAX cross-community partnership in the city's Creggan estate.
We continue to collaborate with the National Co-operative Archive and the Co-operative
College in Manchester. Mansfield sits on the advisory board of the NCA, Vernon served as
a trustee of the Co-operative Heritage Trust, and Meredith, Stewart, Frank and Poole have
collaborated on various projects. These include an AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award on
‘The Co-operative Party and the Labour Party 1927-46’ (2009-14), an international PhD
studentship with the Co-operative College linked to Moshi University College of Co-
operative and Business Studies, Tanzania (2011-16), and a commissioned report on ‘The
Rochdale Pioneers and Peterloo’ for the Co-op College (2019). Frank and Southern are
part of the national Management History Research Group, whose 2019 conference,
Management in Crisis, was hosted at UCLan, co-organised with Larsen (Business
Studies).
We have a longstanding partnership with the Harris Museum and Gallery, Preston. We
supported the Harris in obtaining Heritage Lottery funding for two commemorative events:
‘Preston Remembers’ (on the First World War) and ‘The Battle of Preston 1715’ (the last
battle fought in England, during the Jacobite rising). We have organised three public
history lectures a year at the Harris since 2017, with an average attendance of 55, as well
as a Heritage Network exhibition and event in 2017. In 2019 the University established a
joint working group with the Harris in support of the ‘Unlocking the Harris’ project bid.
When the Grade 1 listed building is expected to close in 2021-4 for an HLF-funded
renovation we plan to host a series of events on its behalf. We will work with the
university’s Centre for Digital Life to stage virtual exhibitions and activities to develop and
promote the Harris’s collections, particularly in relation to social inclusion and ethnic
diversity.

Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries or audiences, and
contributions to the research base, economy and society
Lancashire with its cotton industry has a rich history, providing a wide range of
opportunities for UCLan’s historians to work closely with partner organisations and the
public, including Black and Minority Ethnic groups. Much of the county is struggling in the
wake of industrial decline, with Blackpool, Blackburn, Burnley and Pendle listed by the
government among the twenty most deprived areas in England, and we have used our
expertise and networks to bring local history alive for our local communities. A strategic
change was made in 2014 when the Centre for Family and Local History was wound up

                                                                                         Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
with the departure of its director, Gritt. We resolved to move away from a provider-led
approach to a collaborative approach, working with local groups on co-produced research
projects, particularly where our involvement could help obtain external funding. This has
been very successful in allowing us to interact with a wider variety of organisations through
various means. We acted as expert partners in four successful bids for HLF community
project funding, worth a total of £4.5k.
   •   Leyland Historical Society for ‘The Industrial Heritage of Leyland & Farington’,
       where we also gave oral history training to volunteers who conducted 230
       interviews.
   •   Downham Local History Society, to restore and interpret the banner of a 19th-
       century benevolent society.
   •   The Friends of Winckley Square and the local charity Groundwork, for a set of
       interpretation boards for Preston’s historic Georgian district.
   •   The Friends of Unity Hall, Nelson, for a project to refurbish the 19th-century Unity
       Hall and tell the story of the local women’s rights campaigner Selina Cooper.
We also supported the heritage arts charity Mirador in a successful application for Arts
Council funding to digitise the pioneering Elizabeth Roberts collection of oral history
material, and in a partly successful bid for a group of smaller projects on the heritage of
the Ribble Valley entitled ‘A River Runs Through It’.
Through University HEIF funds of £5k in 2016-17 and £7k in 2017-18 we made small
research and public engagement grants available to over 20 individual projects which we
supported through history training sessions on issues such as source analysis and
exhibition design. We enabled the Whittingham and Goosnargh Heritage Group to produce
an historical trail of their local area, and the Wigan Heritage and Mining Memorial group to
create a teaching pack on the life and memories of the last ‘pit-brow lasses’ in association
with a commissioned memorial to the mining industry. We have also given staff time and
practical assistance of various kinds to projects run by Blackpool Archives, the Briercliffe
Society, the Friends of Worsthorne, Lancashire Museums, Pendle Heritage Museum,
Lancashire Family History Society, Rufford Old Hall, Gawthorpe Hall (both National Trust),
and Longridge Museum. Southern has assisted an art hotel in Blackpool with research
informed design of hotel rooms. Emeritus Professor of History Timmins and ECR Southern
have played important roles in several of these projects and are active on the board of the
Lancashire Local History Federation and the British Association for Local History, of which
Southern is a Trustee. More generally, we estimate that UCLan history staff have given
over 160 public lectures and workshops in the REF period.
We have continued to expand and deepen our support for historical and heritage
organisations in Lancashire. We established the Preston History Network in association
with the Preston Guild celebrations of 2012 to offer a range of events and activities. Its
main activity has been co-ordinating the annual Preston Heritage Open Days, supported
by staff from the Harris Museum and the UCLan History team. In 2019 it opened 25 sites
and attracted over 4,000 visits. We also co-ordinated for several years an informal
Heritage Network within the University, now subsumed within the History Research
Centre.
UCLan historians have played a significant role in the cultural regeneration of Burnley,
where the University has a rapidly developing campus at the former Victoria Mill. A
successful oral history project in collaboration with the National Trust and Burnley Football
Club was completed in 2018, resulting in online material on their two websites and an
exhibition at Gawthorpe Hall (National Trust). We have maintained support for working the
Queen Street Mill Museum in Burnley through student visits and collaboration, at a time
                                                                                      Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
when it was mothballed for several years owing to local authority cuts. Working alongside
the National Trust we contributed to a report to Lancashire County Council which resulted
in its partial re-opening in 2019, alongside the historic working Helmshore Mill. We have
also worked closely with the Weavers’ Triangle visitor centre and museum and have
assisted Burnley Civic Trust in securing a permanent home for its archive in a dedicated
space in the Town Hall. Southern has recently become an accredited advisor to the
National Trust in Lancashire. In 2018-19 he joined UCLan’s School of Art, Design and
Fashion in a successful bid to the Arts Council for a project on the oral history and heritage
of the textile industry. An exhibition and book Heirloom were launched in October 2019 at
Queen Street Mill as part of the British Textile Biennial. This was followed by a one-day
conference on ‘The Politics of Cloth’, organised through the University Centre at Blackburn
College, as part of the British Textile Biennial in November 2019. We plan greater
involvement in the 2021 biennial.
The presence of the Livesey special collection (Section 3 above) and McAllister’s work on
the temperance movement has made this University a hub for interdisciplinary and multi-
agency research into the temperance movement. In June 2018, in collaboration with Dr
Pam Lock at the University of Bristol, we hosted a two-day international, multi-agency
conference on ‘Radical Temperance’. It attracted 60 delegates from the US, Canada,
Japan, Australia, France, Denmark, and Ireland, from the fields of Sociology, History,
Literature, Alcohol Studies and Health Care, together with graduate students, and
professionals in social work and the charity sector. The papers were published in a special
edition of the journal Social History of Alcohol and Drugs, Fall, 2019, edited and introduced
by McAllister. She had previously collaborated with Dr Tim Hickman (Lancaster University)
and Prof. Scott Martin (Bowling Green, Ohio) in organising an interdisciplinary alcohol and
temperance conference in Dwight, Illinois, in 2016. Active in the Drink Studies Network,
she has helped set up the ‘Moderation and Sobriety' group of researchers and worked with
third sector organisations such as Alcohol Concern UK, Hope UK, and the White Ribbon
Society in developing teaching and promotional materials and engaging with local support
groups.
Other work mentioned above has obvious relevance to this section. The extensive work
done with numerous organizations in the region involved in the Peterloo 1819 bicentenary
is set out in an Impact Case Study. Mansfield’s Everyday Lives in War project also
involved exhibition advice to the People’s History Museum, Imperial War Museum North,
National Waterways Museum, Rochdale Pioneers Museum, National Football Museum,
NW Film Archive, 14-18 Now (Manchester Public Art), Lancaster Museum, and the
Museum of Cambridge. It has also supported projects by ‘Southern Voices’ (a Manchester-
based Black heritage organisation) and Global Link Lancaster.

Journals
Mihalopoulos is chief editor of Japan Forum and a research associate at the Japan
Research Centre, SOAS; he contributed to a graduate workshop organised by Japan
Forum and the Institut National des Langues et Civilisations Orientales held in Paris,
March 2019. Colman is review editor for Diplomacy and Statecraft. McAllister is on the
editorial board of the Manchester Region History Review. Poole and Hobbs sit on the
editorial board of the Transactions of the Historical Society of Lancashire and Cheshire
(founded 1848), which was relaunched by Gritt as editor in 2014.

Other external bodies
Poole was a research associate to the ‘Future in the Stars’ programme at the Emmy-
Noether Institute, Free University of Berlin, 2012-16, making one consultancy visit and
contributing to three international conferences on space history in Berlin.

                                                                                      Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
History staff have given 13 invited keynote and plenary conference papers, including: the
DCMS-supported ‘Somme 100’ national commemoration at Heaton Park, Manchester,
2016 (Mansfield); the Public Record Office of Northern Ireland/Open University conference
on ‘Drink and Temperance’, Belfast, 2016 (McAllister); the Society for the History of
Natural History conference, Ambleside, 2017 (Toogood); the annual Byron Lecture at the
British Association for Romantic Studies, Nottingham, 2019; the public Peterloo panel at
the International Conference on Romanticism, Manchester, 2019; and the British
Commission for Military History conference ‘War and Peace in the Age of Napoleon’,
King’s College, London, 2019 (Poole). In addition, both Poole (on petitioning for
parliamentary reform) and Mansfield (on the Representation of the People Act 1918) have
given invited papers to public events at the Palace of Westminster organised by the
History of Parliament Trust.




                                                                                 Page 12
