Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Institution: The University of Manchester

Unit of assessment: 26 (Modern Languages and Linguistics)

Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Context
Situated within the School of Arts Languages and Cultures (SALC), this UoA comprises
Linguistics and English Language, eight Modern Language disciplines and Translation and
Intercultural Studies. With 57 staff (54.25 FTE), including two Marie Curie Fellows, it is one of
the largest communities of language researchers in the UK. The UoA’s diverse range of
languages and location within SALC, itself among the most substantive groups of Humanities
scholars internationally, create ideal conditions for methodologically innovative and empirically
rich multi-disciplinary research.

The University’s emphasis on social responsibility is reflected in the UoA’s orientation towards
issues of contemporary societal relevance and the generation of impactful research. The
School and University-wide infrastructure of research centres and seed-funding supports the
pursuit of interdisciplinary and collaborative projects. This environment enables UoA staff to
extract maximum added value from both its scale and language diversity and from its
intentional focus on public engagement.

Key to the UoA’s strategy has been its leading role in two high-profile University
interdisciplinary initiatives, both launched during this REF period: Digital Humanities, a major
theme within the University’s Digital Futures platform which brings together experts from the
humanities and computer science to address the big methodological questions posed by new
technologies; and Creative Manchester to foster partnerships with Manchester’s globally-facing
creative industries. The UoA also leads two major interdisciplinary research endeavours: the
‘Cross-Language Dynamics’ consortium funded through the AHRC’s Open World Research
Initiative (OWRI) and Multilingual Manchester, which collaborates with local communities and
public-service providers around the opportunities and challenges of multilingualism. The UoA’s
contributions to these four enterprises are the key areas in which we have significantly
advanced our research and impact activities. Highlights of our achievements in this REF period
are:

        The £7,091,436 spent in external grant funding (a 23% increase since 2014), and the
         doubling of the number of large grants (20 new grants over £200,000)
        UoA staff produced 339 REF-eligible outputs, including 41 monographs and 168
         articles in leading refereed journals
        UoA leadership of the OWRI ‘Cross-Language Dynamics’ consortium, one of only four
         such consortia established in the UK (2016-2021), with the AHRC funding of
         £3,970,000
        An expansion of the postgraduate research community (141 FTE PhD completions
         compared to 128 in the previous cycle)
        Quadrupling the number of independent postdoctoral researchers with prestigious
         externally-funded fellowships (16 in the census period, compared to four in REF2014)
        Enhanced impact activity through the receipt of the University’s investment of
         £766,000, as well as large externally-funded projects. This has facilitated a broadening
         of the range of non-academic partners, and of the scale of contribution to society; the
         improvement of public understanding of the cultures researched and of public
         provision for vulnerable groups; the development of new resources for studying foreign
         languages in schools; and support for local authorities in embracing the advantages of
         multilingualism.



                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Structure
The UoA’s principal research strengths are language-based area studies, translation and
intercultural studies, and linguistics. These strengths are reflected in its intellectual agenda and
organization into two departments: the Department of Modern Languages and Cultures (MLC)
and the Department of Linguistics and English Language (LEL).

The Department of Modern Languages and Cultures (MLC), with 40 staff, combines two
distinct traditions. One is language-based area studies (LBAS) which feature particularly
strongly in Arabic and Middle Eastern (AMES), Chinese, Japanese, Russian and East
European (REES), and Spanish, Portuguese and Latin American (SPLAS) Studies. The other
is languages and intercultural studies (LIS) and is particularly strongly represented in French,
German, Italian and Translation Studies.

For over a decade, the UoA has been at the forefront of new approaches in LBAS. This
research agenda prioritizes interdisciplinary work at the interface of languages and the social
sciences, applying modern languages expertise to issues of key relevance for international
governance and security. During the REF2021 cycle, UoA staff have adopted new
methodologies in LBAS research such as the application of computational tools for studying the
relationship between language, media and identity; and uses of visual means for researching
the relationship between languages and communities. Work on, and through, some of the
world’s most strategically important languages takes forward themes that emerged in the
REF2014 cycle and addresses new issues: the relationship between culture, media and conflict
(Hutchings, Tipaldou, Tolz); religion and identity in the modern world (Baffelli, Woerner-
Powell); the intersection between race, nationhood and culture (Aguiló, Bailey, Sa, Scorer);
and the relationship between arts and sciences (Homei). Key cross-cultural issues are further
addressed through projects on the relationship between cultural production and politics (Behar,
Cave, Kinsella); and cultural histories of the societies where the relevant languages are
spoken (Angusheva-Tihanov, Eissa-Barroso, Favi, Jefferies, Scott).

Staff aligned with the LIS cluster share with their LBAS colleagues a core interest in global
flows of ideas and aesthetic practices, adopting a particular focus on intercultural dialogue. Key
strands of LIS research include: literary and cultural studies from the medieval to the
contemporary period (Brillaud, Billiani, Kapor, Castellví-Laukamp, Posso, Salhi, van
Tongeren); visual and performance cultures (Lebrun, Llano, McGonagle, Mostafa); national
cultures and cosmopolitanism (Gelbin, Littler); history of the book and digital cultures
(Armstrong, Barda, Milner, Strowe); and power and the ethics of translation (Brownlie,
Olohan, Pérez-González, Tipton).

Department of Linguistics and English Language (LEL)
Cast in a broad range of theoretical frameworks, research in the Department of Linguistics and
English Language (LEL) reflects its wide empirical basis, in which corpora, fieldwork,
sociolinguistic surveys, laboratory experimentation, and computational modelling feature
prominently. LEL’s research is distinguished by its typological breadth, with particular strengths
in English and Germanic, Romance, Indo-Iranian languages, and languages of the Americas
and Oceania. 17.2 FTE staff work across three thematic strands. Firstly, the department studies
the interactions between language, individual and society, often in multidialectal and
multilingual settings, using variationist (Baranowski), computational (Strycharczuk, Nini), and
qualitative (Hansen, Matras, Van Hattum) methods. This research has a strong applied
orientation in language planning (Matras), forensics (Matras, Nini), service industries
(Hansen), preschool childcare (Cameron-Faulkner), and language documentation (Schultze-
Berndt). Secondly, meaning as a determinant of morphosyntactic and prosodic form is studied
in the context of linguistic variation, whether macrotypological (Faller, Hohaus, Koontz-
Garboden, Schultze-Berndt), microtypological (Bentley), or within a single language
(Breban, Payne, Villa-García). A third thematic strand focuses on how linguistic sound
patterns are affected by lexical and morphological information (Bermúdez-Otero,
Strycharczuk), cognitive and perceptual constraints (Kimper), and social and indexical factors


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

(Baranowski, Bermúdez-Otero, Strycharczuk). Cutting across these strands is a strong
diachronic orientation (especially Baranowski, Bermúdez-Otero, Bentley, Breban, Hansen,
Van Hattum, Zimmermann).

Five cross-department research groups
Staff research and impact plans across both departments develop within the framework of five
large research groupings, with members drawn from all of the UoA’s subject areas. In addition,
all UoA staff engage with SALC’s Centre for Interdisciplinary Research in Arts and Languages
(CIDRAL) of which Billiani was director (2015-2018). The groupings are:

       The ‘Cross-Language Dynamics: Reshaping Community’ (CLD) international
        consortium led by UoA staff, with Hutchings as PI, builds on the research of colleagues
        across the UoA and includes collaboration with other SALC disciplines and the School
        of Social Sciences.
       Multilingual Manchester (MLM) (director Matras, Emeritus Professor from August 2020),
        involving colleagues from LEL, MLC and across the Faculty, aims to raise awareness of
        language diversity and the opportunities and challenges of multilingualism among key
        stakeholders in the City of Manchester and to develop tools and practices of general
        applicability to multilingual environments. With a University investment of £635,000
        since 2014, MLM has substantially expanded its research and impact in the REF2021
        cycle through leading the ‘Multilingual Communities’ strand of the OWRI CLD
        consortium and playing a central role in the Creative Manchester initiative.
       The Centre for Translation and Intercultural Studies (CTIS) (director Olohan), which
        includes staff from across the UoA, has one of the largest concentrations of translation
        and interpreting studies specialists in the UK. It provides a key resource for Digital
        Humanities by housing the world’s largest computerized corpus of translated text in the
        word, the Translation English Corpus.

UoA staff also lead two cross-Faculty centres: the Centre for Digital Humanities (CDH) and the
Centre for Latin American and Caribbean Studies (CLACS).

       With a University investment of £229,000 over this REF period, CDH (directors
        Armstrong and Nini) focuses on the ways in which computational tools and
        methodologies can be applied across the range of arts, humanities and social science
        disciplines. UoA staff lead the CDH’s research in contemporary digital cultures,
        computational linguistics, multimodal translation studies and digital cultural heritage.

       CLACS (co-directors Scorer and Aguiló) fosters collaboration between arts scholars
        and social scientists at Manchester, Lancaster and Liverpool in researching cultures and
        societies of Latin America and the Caribbean. UoA staff lead the CLACS strand which
        studies the ways that culture can transform social relations in the region.

Research and Impact Strategy

Fulfilment of REF2014 Objectives

The UoA used external grant capture, the University’s own research and impact support
initiatives, and strategic staff appointments to achieve its REF2014 objectives. Key decisions
regarding funding applications and appointments have been consultative, with input from
School, Faculty, research groupings and staff away days. Our research and impact strategies
post-2014 have been designed with a view to providing a supportive and inclusive environment.
The UoA’s four strategic focal points during this period were:

    1. Building research centres and collaborative initiatives that:
    i) facilitate cross-departmental synergies;

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    ii) align our research with key University priorities enabling researchers to maximise
         the significance of, and innovation in, their work;
    iii) help to secure substantive support for projects addressing issues of national and
         global importance.

 The above-mentioned research groupings brought together staff with shared intellectual
 agendas and complementary expertise, enabling the UoA to develop seven research areas
 identified as priorities in REF2014:

 1) Since 2014 we have continued to lead in addressing the AHRC’s priority areas, expanding
 our contribution. Manchester’s existing strength in LBAS and Translation Studies, as well as
 the unique model of integrating research and public engagement developed by Multilingual
 Manchester, enabled UoA staff to lead the above-mentioned successful AHRC bid for its
 Open World Research Initiative (OWRI). With the involvement of staff from across the entire
 UoA, the OWRI Cross-Language Dynamics (CLD) consortium has been researching how an
 open world might preserve linguistic community boundaries whilst ensuring inter-community
 cohesion.

 2) Work on formal semantics in under-described languages has been boosted by a large
 volume of international funding, including an ERC consolidator grant of €1.99m on the
 semantics of lexical categories (Koontz-Garboden), a new appointment (Hohaus) and
 collaboration with Psychology and Philosophy (Cameron-Faulkner). As a result, Manchester
 has come to house what is arguably the world’s highest concentration of semanticists working
 on lesser known languages.

 3) Research in European and (post-)colonial literatures was advanced by Kapor’s British
 Academy-funded work on the Francophone cultural context; Billiani’s AHRC-funded projects
 on the late-nineteenth century Italian novel and on the arts under European dictatorships
 (£195,000), as well as new appointments in French and SPLAS (Bailey, Barda, Castellví-
 Laukamp, van Tongeren).

 4) The work on language, media and conflict has been taken forward through the launch of
 the ‘Citizen media at Manchester’ initiative (Pérez-González, Baker (Cat. B)); and an AHRC-
 funded project on Russian broadcasting (Hutchings, Tolz, £885,000). Both Baker’s’ AHRC
 Leadership Fellowship and Mostafa’s contribution as Co-I to an AHRC-funded project led by
 Warwick focused on the relationship between culture, media and politics in Egypt.

 5) The development of digital humanities has been facilitated by the establishment of the UoA-
 led Centre for Digital Humanities (Armstrong) and new appointments (Barda, Nini,
 Strycharczuk). Over this REF period, UoA staff led the digitisation of a range of the John
 Rylands Library’s special collections and created open access databases in Linguistics and
 Translation Studies. (See Section 3)

 6) Study of the socio-cultural consequences of migration by exploring the relationship between
 language, identity and place has been advanced through new AHRC-funded projects on the
 UK’s humanitarian response to refugees (Tipton, £202,000), and on applications of forensic
 services to Kurdish migrants (Matras, Koontz-Garboden, £203,000), as well a European
 Commission-funded project on the impact of Roma migration into Western Europe (Matras,
 £776,918 for the UoA).

 7) Research on the relationship between culture and urban multi-lingual space remains central
 to CLACS’s and Multilingual Manchester’s agendas, and it has been supported by the
 Leverhulme Trust (Scorer, £95,912), ERC (Llano, Co-I on a Cambridge-led project, £109,545
 for the UoA) and the Creative Manchester initiative (supporting MLM’s collaboration with
 Manchester Museum). The calibre and significance of the UoA’s research on this theme was



                                                                                         Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 recognized by the award to Matras of a British Academy Wolfson Professorship for his project
 ‘Towards a New Epistemology of Urban Multilingualism’ (£165,000, 2017-2020).


    2. Utilization of support structures and the investment made by research centres
       and the University, as well as from large research grants, to expand the range and
       scope of impacts on society achieved by UoA research.

Our impact strategy for the current REF cycle outlined in REF2014 includes three core
components: to capitalize on and take forward our relationships with non-academic users; to
respond to relevant social needs; and to contribute to thinking about cultural heritage as a
multi-lingual and transnational good.

During the REF2021 cycle, we have significantly expanded our range of non-academic partners
by strategically targeting the best partners for delivering impact agendas of large, externally-
funded projects and the UoA-led research centres. These now include local authorities and
government and state offices (from Manchester City Council to the UK Parliament and
Norwegian Foreign Ministry); law enforcement and legal bodies (police and law firms
supporting refugees); educational institutions (from early-learning centres to secondary schools
in the UK and Japan); media organizations, including public broadcasters, in Germany, Japan,
Sweden and the UK; and cultural institutions, including museums and the film industry in China,
Italy, Germany and the UK.

Our appointments reflect the contemporary societal relevance of the applicants’ research. This
means that many colleagues’ collaborative and individual projects have generated impact
around topical societal issues. These include: improving state and public understanding of the
social-cultural consequences of migration and latent forms of racial discrimination in the UK
and Latin America; sustaining the world language ecosystem by documenting Australia’s
indigenous languages; providing expertise for politicians, journalists and the public on the
political and cultural role of the media in Egypt, Japan and Russia; and incentivizing school
pupils in the UK to study modern languages.

Our selection of impact cases reflects the UoA’s commitment to apply research in Languages
to address vital contemporary needs, including inequalities arising from language-related
issues faced by migrants and refugees (Tipton on translation services for refugees and Matras
(1) on European policies towards Roma); media discourse, identity construction and conflict
(Hutchings and Tolz); literature as a vehicle for cross-cultural dialogue (Parker, Cat. B); issues
surrounding urban multilingualism (Matras (2)). The ICSs exemplify the diversity of our
research in major European and minority languages, and our engagement with stakeholders
from the local to international contexts. They represent impact achieved in each of the UoA’s
areas of strength: LBAS (Hutchings and Tolz), LEL (Matras) and LIS (Tipton and Parker).
They embrace a full range of impacts, from shaping policy, through informing public debate, to
serving the needs of marginal groups and contributing to the vitality of the cultural sector.

    3. Nurturing a new generation of leading researchers in Languages

The UoA has the long-term goal of sustaining the viability and vibrancy of our disciplines by
acting as a leading centre for training future research leaders in our fields, offering them world-
class supervision, mentoring and training, as well as financial support for PGRs and PDRFs.
The UoA’s REF2014 submission flagged one of its main priorities as the consolidation of its
‘unique position… in relation to the quality and size of our postgraduate cohort’. In the current
REF cycle, we have improved on our earlier achievements thanks to the UoA’s active
engagement with the AHRC- and ESRC-funded North West DTPs as well as the CEELBAS
CDT in Russian and East European Studies, where Manchester collaborated with Cambridge,
Oxford and UCL (the AHRC funding of £2,500,000).


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

We have also quadrupled the number of independent PDRFs funded through the highly
competitive Leverhulme Trust, British Academy and Marie Curie schemes. Our success in
securing funding for major collaborative projects with strong public engagement dimensions
has enabled us not only to expand our postdoctoral and PGR cohort, but to provide it with vital
links to the stakeholder community through internships and contributions to knowledge
exchange events. The presence of a large number of early-career researchers further
facilitated the development of robust mechanisms to support them. Our PGRs and PDRFs have
had excellent successes obtaining permanent jobs in academia, including within this UoA (see
Section 2).

    4. Sustaining a supportive research environment

Support for staff to deliver ambitious research and impact agendas must go beyond providing
funding and infrastructure for research centres. In the REF2021 cycle, we have enhanced the
system of mentoring ECRs and helped colleagues at all career stages to target top-tier outlets
and secure research funding with our arrangements for internal peer reviews of draft
publications and grant applications, and advice for how to repurpose unsuccessful grant bids
and revise rejected articles.

Future Research and Impact strategy

Our research and impact priorities for the next five years reflect four interconnected principles
which have been developed based on UoA and institutional strengths. These are:

       a commitment to diversity and scale of research in Languages;
       an emphasis on interdisciplinary collaboration;
       internationalisation;
       and the orientation of our research to the user community.

We intend to build on the legacies of major externally-funded projects. To do so, we will
continue developing strengths in digital humanities, media and conflict, linguistic and cultural
diversity in urban settings and semantics. The OWRI CLD’s investment will be sustained by
applying the programme’s rethinking of the relationship between language and cultural
diplomacy to new geopolitical contexts. We will also consolidate CLD’s innovative work on how
technology-driven forms of communication are influencing the self-representation of language
communities. The ERC-funded project on lexical categories has endowed us with enhanced
research capability in formal and typological semantics, which we are committed to sustaining
beyond the project's end date, including the conversion of Hohaus's temporary post into a
permanent appointment. The open-access corpora, including the ability to run online analyses
on the entire collection of texts, produced for the AHRC-funded ‘Genealogy of Knowledge’
project, will remain available to future researchers. The AHRC-funded ‘Reframing Russia’
project’s research on Russian political communication in the digital age will continue through
collaboration with policy makers and analysts around Russia’s Covid-19 related disinformation
activities. Digital annotated catalogues of unique collections at UoM’s John Rylands Library
created during this REF period by UoA staff will be promoted by the John Rylands Research
Institute (see Section 3).

We will support the development of collaborative externally funded research on issues of major
social significance that are emerging as new areas of UoA strength. These include the
relationship between culture and race relations; advanced computational approaches to
individual level vs community level linguistic variation; religion and transnational identities; and
the relationship between the sciences and the arts. We will expand the integration of
theoretical, diachronic, variationist and laboratory work in Linguistics on its key thematic
strands, particularly in LEL’s work on trajectories of sound change, pragmatic-driven change,
and in changes to syntactic patterns driven by verb meaning. Research on these themes, for


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

some of which external funding has already been secured at the end of the current REF cycle
(e.g. Scorer’s AHRC-funded ‘Comics and Race in Latin America’ (£976,000, 2021-2024) and
Woerner-Powell’s AHRC-funded ‘Religion of Peace’ (£234,000, 2021-2024)), is mostly led by
mid-career and early-career researchers, ensuring the UoA’s sustainability. Some of these
research areas are connected with the Digital Futures and Creative Manchester initiatives, on
whose funding and other support UoA staff will also be able to draw.

We will also continue to develop the UoA’s excellence as a centre for training future research
leaders. We will support early-career colleagues (almost half of the UoA’s current permanent
staff) with the transition to mid-career stage; take forward new initiatives (e.g. CTIS’
collaboration in research training with Shanghai Jiao Tong University), and systematically
involve PDRFs and PGRs in international research collaborations (See Section 4). The EDI
agenda remains at the centre of our recruitment policies and procedures. This is exemplified by
SALC’s and the NWCDTP’s new BAME-specific postgraduate scholarships, to increase
diversity among scholars in Languages and Linguistics.

The social and political topicality of UoA research will guarantee the continual generation of
knowledge exchange and public engagement activities. The UoA will capitalize on its
experience in delivering impact gained through the research centres it leads, the OWRI CLD
consortium and collaborative research projects with significant impact agendas. The main goal
is to deepen those partnerships outside academia that were developed during this REF cycle
(e.g. through collaborative projects with policy analysts as co-investigators). A range of specific
impact goals that extend beyond REF2021 have already been identified. These include the
UoA’s ESRC-funded partnership with the National Crime Agency to apply forensic linguistics to
the identification of anonymous offenders on the Dark Web (Nini); a community project to
support non-English speaking mothers (Cameron-Faulkner); and a project providing the
Health Care Professions Council with recommendations regarding the role of interpreters in
mental health provision (Tipton). We intend to expand our grant capture by, for example,
applying to calls under the UKRI’s Global Challenges Research Fund in order to build a lasting
legacy for the innovative relationships with city councils, service providers, cultural diplomacy
and global arts organisations developed via the CLD consortium, MLM and Creative
Manchester. Our use of PhD and postdoctoral internship schemes, as well as NWCDTP’s
collaborative doctoral awards, to deepen collaborations with our non-academic partners for
their own benefit and that of the UoA will also be extended. Key to delivering this agenda will be
training and incentivizing staff to maximize the impact potential of their research through
internal funding schemes, dedicated time allocation and workshops for sharing colleagues’
experiences and best practice.

Open Access and Research Integrity

The UoA benefitted from the University’s commitment to open access publication. The UoM
funded Gold Open Access for a substantial number of the submitted articles, as well as
monographs by Baffelli, Bentley, Billiani, Eissa-Barroso, Hutchings and Tolz, and Koontz-
Garboden. Staff set best practice in the effective sharing of research by (a) editing on-line
open-access journals (e.g. Probus); (b) providing OA to data from the UoM-funded ‘Our
Dialects’ project, which mapped variations of English across the UK; (c) sharing software code
for forensic linguistics research; (d) offering scholars access, via the web interface and corpus-
query tools, to the Translational English Corpus, endangered languages corpora and the
‘Genealogies of Knowledge’ project corpora. The development of new open-access databases
is one of the UoA’s priorities for the next REF cycle.

UoA staff and PGRs adhere to the University policy on research integrity. This includes
mandatory research integrity training for staff and PGRs and adherence to the University’s
Research Ethics Committee’s procedures for identifying projects with ethical issues which need
to be assessed and approved prior to the work commencing. In addition, staff who supervise
PGRs and conduct fieldwork have to complete the ‘Research Ethics eLearning’ course


                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

designed for Humanities researchers.
Section 2. People

The UoA fosters the vitality of its research environment through its strategies for recruitment
and career development.

Staffing and Recruitment Strategy
The study of communities that differ culturally and linguistically requires a workforce with a
diverse set of approaches, theoretical perspectives and methodological skills. Our
appointments’ strategy, including investment in independent postdoctoral research fellows
(PDRFs) has been designed with this in mind. New appointments made during the REF period
account for 22% of the submitted staff in MLC and 41% in LEL. 43% of the UoA staff are ECRs,
ensuring its sustainability and vitality. We continue to appoint from a pool of excellent global
scholars, positioning the UoA at the forefront of the University’s internationalization agenda.
Eight out of ten new appointments in MLC and all seven appointments in LEL came from
outside the UK, contributing to our diversity. The location of Modern Languages within a large
interdisciplinary School enables the most effective deployment of staff resource. In 2016, a
series of MLC Away Days to develop our sustainability strategy was organized, following which
subject level sizes were agreed upon. In order to maintain sustainability whilst embedding
Languages expertise across the School, six colleagues from MLC were transferred to other
SALC departments but have continued their collaboration with the UoA. This further
strengthened the interdisciplinarity of research in Languages.

The UoA’s 19 new academic appointments during this REF cycle were made with a view to
applying overarching strategic priorities to new research contexts, whilst enriching its main
intellectual groupings.

       The appointment of Llano and van Tongeren expanded the UoA’s links to music - a
        defining feature of OWRI CLD in which SALC’s Music Department had significant
        involvement – into the popular domain, creating synergies with Lebrun’s on-going
        research on French protest music.
       Research on the relationship between translation and power, a long-existing UoA
        strength, has been extended into the Italian cultural context through Strowe’s
        appointment.
       Our research on world literatures has acquired an innovative, DH dimension through
        the appointment of Barda. Castellví-Laukamp’s appointment strengthens our expertise
        on poetry and other cultural forms in Spain and its colonies in the early modern period
        and Bailey’s in Lusophone literature.
       The UoA’s distinctive approach to area studies gained momentum from
        appointments around the language-based study of religion (Scott and Woerner-
        Powell), complementing Baffelli’s research in this area. The UoA added weight to
        LBAS expertise in Latin American popular culture through the appointment of Aguiló
        whose focus on race connects well with CLACS’s agenda. His collaboration with Sá and
        Wade (Anthropology) resulted in the AHRC-funded ‘Cultures of Anti-Racism’ project
        (value to the UoA of £446,000). Two further permanent appointments in Chinese
        Studies (Pao-Chen and Pulford) were made, with a start date of September 2020.
       New appointments added to existing strengths in phonetics (Strycharczuk), the syntax
        of Romance languages (Villa Garcia), the formal semantic analysis of under-
        researched languages (Hohaus) and the history of English Language (van Hattum,
        Zimmermann).
       New appointments also allowed the UoA to gain expertise in cutting-edge areas using
        novel technologies and big data, including ultrasound imaging (Strycharczuk),
        forensic linguistics (Nini), pragmatically-based historical sociolinguistics (van Hattum),
        and advanced quantitative methods (Strycharczuk, Nini, Zimmermann).


                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

The UoA made significant investment in independent postdoctoral research fellows (PDRFs),
through co-funding, in-kind contribution and research and career development. During the
REF2021 cycle, we had sixteen independent PDRFs: four Leverhulme Trust, four Marie Curie,
two Swiss National Science Foundation, and six fellows funded by the British Academy, the
ESRC, Germany’s Zukunftkolleg, Newton International, the Open Society Institute and the
Pears Foundation. The quality of the UoA’s support for PDRFs has become internationally
known, and so postdoctoral researchers actively seek opportunities to work with us.
Independent PDRFs, together with 25 Research Associates employed on externally funded
research projects, contributed to expanding the UoA’s research and impact and fostering
interdisciplinarity and collaboration. Those independent PDRFs who were in post at the
REF2021 census date are included in the UoA’s submission (Favi and Tipaldou). Publications
by independent PDRFs (Bochnak, Casula, Gorshenina and Teper) which were co-authored
during their fellowships with UoA staff are included among the submitted outputs. Given the
limitations on output numbers, many excellent single authored outputs by independent PDRFs,
who are no longer working at the university, have not been included in the UoA submission.

Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
Our commitment to EDI is informed by our belief that a diverse staff profile is essential for
maintaining and enhancing UoA sustainability and vitality. To support our EDI objectives we
make open-ended appointments where possible. This applied to 93% of the academic
appointments made during this REF period. The UoA now has more female than male
members of staff (57% female and 43% male). Our proportion of women and men in
professorial positions is equal, with a higher proportion of women in professorial and SL posts
(36% women and 21% men). The UoA has a strong record in LGBTQ representation. With the
exception of Arabic and Middle Eastern Studies, we still have few BAME staff. Addressing this
issue is our strategic priority. A temporary, externally-funded position of a BAME academic in
Japanese was converted into a permanent lectureship during this REF period. In the latest
round of appointments, another BAME applicant joined MLC.

EDI issues are central to our management of academic promotions and they are addressed
through one-to-one meetings with the Head of School and Head of Department to ensure that
staff understand promotion criteria. Maternity/paternity leave, disability and care duties are
taken into consideration in decision-making by the SALC Promotions Committee, which has a
50%/50% gender split. During the REF cycle, 20% of staff in MLC were promoted, with a
50%/50% gender split. In LEL, 23% of staff were promoted of whom three were female and one
male.

The MLC and LEL EDI leads ensure that School-level initiatives are implemented at
departmental level and oversee the development of local initiatives that speak to the
disciplines, such as decolonizing the curriculum with specific reference to Languages, and
recruitment of more BAME staff and PhD students. The strategic importance of research in
Languages in decolonizing the curriculum is recognized, and the UoA’s representative (Aguilo)
is playing an active role in SALC’s committee that is working on this issue. We further foster an
inclusive environment for staff with care responsibilities. Our Carer Support Scheme helps staff
with caring costs incurred through research-related activities. The timetabling of teaching takes
account of care duties and health-related issues. We support staff returning from periods of
maternity/paternity leave or leave due to illness as part of our research strategy, which includes
a phased return with a reduced teaching and service workload to enable research momentum
to be maintained.

EDI considerations informed our selection of outputs and impact cases. All internal reviewers
of outputs had EDI training and a gender balance was maintained for internal reviewers of
outputs and ICSs. Having two reviewers for each output in internal assessments also helped
mitigate against potential biases. The UoA Research Coordinators reviewed our profile to
check for any systemic grading issues across gender and seniority. There is an equal gender
balance in the authorship of the submitted outputs. Among the authors of the impact cases

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

there are two women, including an early-career researcher (Tipton), and three men.

Mentoring and Research Support

Support and Career Development of ECRs

Early-career lecturers benefit from the following institutional support:

       an experienced mentor who assists with the development of research, publication,
        training and grant-capture plans.
       priority status for internal seed-funding and for administrative support with their research
        initiatives.
       research training and career advice as part of the Faculty’s New Academics
        Programme, which is accredited by the HEA and is compulsory for academics
        appointed to permanent posts.

The fact that, during this REF cycle, five of our ECRs on permanent contracts received large
external research grants (see Section 3) indicates the quality of our support structures.

Research and career development mentoring, seed-funding (where appropriate), research
training and administrative support are also offered to PDRFs and RAs. The quality of support
for our postdoctoral researchers is indicated by their subsequent appointments. Thirteen
independent ECRs who completed their fellowships in the assessment period moved either to
permanent academic posts, including at leading universities and research centres (Birmingham
(Richardson); SOAS (Banko); Sydney (Vuong); and the French National Centre for Scientific
Research (Gorshenina)), obtained other prestigious fellowships or moved to posts outside
academia where a PhD is required (a senior position at the Swiss National Library (Casula)).
Post-doctoral RAs on externally-funded projects receive training and enjoy publishing
opportunities which position them well to move to permanent academic posts (e.g. five RAs
who had worked on UoA projects on the Russian media obtained permanent academic posts in
the assessment period).

Support and Career Development of All Staff
Following probation (normally four years), colleagues benefit from Faculty and School
structures available to all permanent and fixed-term staff to develop their research. These
include:

       Annual Personal Research Expectations Plans (PREP), produced by colleagues in
        discussion with senior academics. Acting as a personal stock take and opportunity for
        mentoring, PREPs help colleagues prioritize research and impact goals and identify
        support mechanisms.
       Support with the preparation of grant applications from SALC’s Research Office,
        including access to a database of successful bids and advice on new applications from
        SALC’s Peer Review College.
       Support from SALC’s grant writers.
       £1,000 annual allowance for research-related activities.
       Seed-funding from SALC’s Research Support and Research Network Funds and the
        Faculty of Humanities Strategic Investment Fund for developing projects and preparing
        external grant applications.
       The Faculty’s dedicated Research Development Team which uses the Vitae-developed
        Researcher Development Framework to help staff plan opportunities on offer throughout
        each academic year.




                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Further research support mechanisms are:

       Mid-career researchers are given opportunities and support to lead significant
        collaborative research-related initiatives, such as research centres (Armstrong,
        Billiani, Olohan and Scorer), and to provide academic management at the School
        level for postgraduate research (Baffelli, Breban, Brillaud and Faller). This positions
        them well to assume senior research leadership roles within UoM and beyond in the
        next REF cycle.
       Research and impact activities are supported and rewarded through a time-allocation
        mechanism for research (30% during non-sabbatical years).
       Research, PhD supervision and impact are key criteria in promotions and appointments.
       Institutional Research Leave (IRL) every seventh semester, with ECR’s needs
        prioritized.
       The Faculty-funded enhanced research leave scheme for professorial colleagues with
        particularly significant research agendas (recipient Hutchings).
       SALC-funded supplementary research-leave scheme to allow colleagues to develop
        publications (recipients Billiani, Brillaud, Brownlie, Gelbin, Lebrun, Villa-Garcia).

SALC has the critical mass to support secondments of staff to non-academic institutions.
Milner has been seconded as Director of the British School at Rome which fosters
collaboration between scholars and fine artists; and Parker was seconded as chair of the
Department for Education’s panel on reforming A-levels in Languages.

Impact Support
The UoA’s impact support structure sits within a wider School and Faculty context (see Section
3). At the UoA level, impact and outreach activities are part of each colleague’s mentoring
conversation and/or annual PREP meeting. Knowledge exchange is a core element of UoA-led
research centre activity, which fosters sustained relationships with non-academic partners. In
recognition of the fact that significant impact can take years to achieve, the expertise of senior
colleagues is drawn upon by ECR staff (e.g. Matras advising ECRs involved in delivering the
MLM impact agenda, and Billiani, Baker, Behar, Hutchings and Tolz advising colleagues on
engagement with media, arts sector and government offices). The UoA supports colleagues in
obtaining institutional grants for disseminating research beyond academia (beneficiaries
Gelbin, Hutchings, Matras, Tipton and Tolz). Further funding is offered through the ESRC
Impact Acceleration Account (beneficiaries Nini for his work with the National Crime Agency,
and Matras and Tipton for developing their impact cases).

Postgraduate Strategy

Recruitment
Despite a tough PGR recruitment environment in Languages nationally, the UoA had 237 active
PhD students in the assessment period. The quality of the application (assessed through track
record and research proposal) has been the main admissions criteria. The UoA’s recruitment
strategy benefits from a PGR Marketing and Recruitment Officer, which assists with advertising
our doctoral programmes and funding opportunities. As part of our EDI strategy all academics
involved in interviewing PGR applicants undergo training to avoid unconscious biases.

The UoA’s PGR recruitment success has been facilitated by our ability to ensure that excellent
applicants get funding either through AHRC/ESRC consortia or from the University. During the
assessment period, UoA PGRs received 39 UKRI studentships. SALC and UoM fund their own
studentships, of which UoA PGRs received 37. These highly competitive studentships,
including the University’s prestigious Presidential Doctoral Scholar Awards, offer funding at
UKRI level or above. This level of institutional co-funding was possible through the doubling of
SALC’s PGR budget from £800,000 in 2014 to £1,600,000 in 2019 and the funding by the
Faculty of additional studentships for postgraduate research on topics related to large


                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

externally-funded projects.

In line with the University’s internationalization and EDI agendas, we are committed to
admitting and funding the best PGRs irrespective of their backgrounds and nationality, while
enhancing opportunities for under-represented groups. To this end the UoA established split-
site PhD programmes with King Abdulaziz and King Saud Universities, Saudi Arabia, in
Linguistics and Middle Eastern Studies, with scholarships specifically targeting Saudi women.
We also have an internal system of nurturing students with a particular aptitude for research,
supporting their progression from taught to research degrees. This is done through the
University’s Learning Through Research Scheme which funds internships to facilitate the
involvement of students in the work of research centres and staff projects. Thanks to this
scheme three UoA PGT students progressed to PhDs.

Support and Progression
PGRs are supported and their progress is monitored by three-member supervisory teams
consisting of two supervisors with whom they are entitled to meet fortnightly, and a third panel
member who reviews progress at twice-yearly panels where submitted work, training and
completion schedules are assessed. Those funded by CDP studentships have a supervisor in
the partner institution. The supervisory process is supported by the University’s on-line system
(eProg), which records supervisor meetings, training plans and panel expectations.

PGRs benefit from a Carer Support Scheme. SALC also has a dedicated office for PGRs with
special needs and a DASS coordinator. Research students due to return from a period of
interruption are contacted to check their awareness of available support and make appropriate
arrangements. Within the University’s comprehensive Wellbeing Services, SALC has a
dedicated PGR wellbeing programme. There is a PGR peer-support structure.

Research Culture
PGR integration into the UoA and University research environments is a priority of the
University’s PGR management structures, from the Manchester Doctoral College, which
oversees doctoral students’ development, through the Faculty’s PGR Committee, to the SALC
Graduate School. PGR Coordinators for MLC and LEL further support integration, while acting
as personal advisors to UoA’s doctoral students.

PGRs’ integration is further facilitated through their membership of research centres, with
students playing active roles in delivering research and impact in CLACS, CTIS and MLM. All
students are also integrated into their host departments through participation in their research-
related activities. Staff leading major externally funded projects offer opportunities to PGRs to
engage with project activities. Affiliations with collaborative projects is a particularly effective
vehicle for integration and training, as is evident from PGR engagement in the ERC-funded
‘The Lexical Semantics of Lexical Categories’, and the AHRC-funded CLD consortium, and in
the ‘Genealogies of Knowledge’ and ‘Reframing Russia’ projects.

Training, Career Development and Employability
With the assistance of their main supervisors, students produce annual research development
plans, on the basis of which tailor-made training packages are designed with appropriate
courses selected from the ArtsMethods@Manchester and Methods@Manchester training
portfolios. The delivery is multi-layered: from the Faculty level, where Researcher Development
and Developing Intellectual Leaders programmes offer training in broad research and
transferable skills, through the SALC Graduate School whose Associate Director is responsible
for designing appropriate training in the areas of relevance to SALC’s students, to discipline-
level initiatives. As not all PGRs move to academic careers, SALC runs a ‘PhD Beyond
Academia’ programme. A PGR internship scheme supported by the Faculty and the UKRI
consortia enhances PGRs’ employability and fosters skills for delivering impact. Organisations
where our students held internships include Al-Jazeera, the BBC, the British Library and
Nessma TV. The UKRI consortia and UoM offer generous support for organizing public-


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

engagement events (e.g. £15,000 from the AHRC CEEELBAS CDT and SALC for PGRs to
organize the New Russia cultural festival, with over 500 participants from the general public).

Students benefit from inter-university collaborations in the delivery of training. UKRI award
holders have access to wide-ranging training organized by the consortia. In the assessment
period, the LBAS pathway of the NW ESRCSSDTP was particularly active in organizing
collaborative training between Manchester and Liverpool in Latin American Studies (e.g. the
Latin American and Caribbean Studies Symposium), whereas students in Russian and East
European Studies benefitted from a subject-specific training programme delivered through the
framework of the CEELBAS CDT. Since 2014, CTIS has been leading a new training
programme, ‘Advanced Research in Translation and Intercultural Studies’ (ARTIS), in
collaboration with Edinburgh, Nottingham and UCL.

The UKRI doctoral consortia, SALC and Faculty invest heavily in supporting PGR cohort
development. UoA PGRs organize two large annual postgraduate conferences: ‘The
Manchester Forum in Linguistics’ and ‘International Postgraduate Conference in Translation
and Interpreting’, as well as one-off events. CTIS, LEL and REES run student-led work-in-
progress seminars. SALC’s state-of-the-art Graduate School provides space for cohort-building
initiatives. Whereas UKRI students receive in-programme support from their Councils, SALC
invests in supporting all its PGRs’ research needs, offering up to £3,000 for fieldwork and £400
annually for other research-related activities to each student. Bursaries are offered to students
to extend their knowledge of a foreign language for research purposes.

The range of training and opportunities our students enjoy helps them start publishing during
their PhDs. Co-publishing with staff is encouraged as an important training opportunity, and
several such co-authored publications were produced in the current REF cycle. Five students
received prestigious prizes for the best articles published by PGRs, including the Anna
Siewierska Prize of the Linguistics Association; two prizes awarded by the British Association
for Slavonic and East European Studies (BASEES); the Eugenie Henderson Prize of the British
Association of Academic Phoneticians; and the IB Tauris Prize in Iranian Studies.

Our PhD graduates enjoy high levels of success in securing academic jobs. In relation to the
assessment period, we hold information on 39 graduates who got permanent academic posts in
the UK and seven foreign countries. Ten further graduates took up postdoctoral positions,
including Leverhulme and British Academy fellowships.
Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income

The UoA spent £7,091,436m in external grant funding in the assessment period and achieved
its strategic aim of improving on an already strong record (£5,468,818 spent in the REF2014
cycle) and obtaining funding from new sources, such as the ERC and the Global Challenges
Research Fund. The successes outlined below have been facilitated by well-developed
individual staff research agendas and support for grant bids and collaborative initiatives from
the research centres, SALC and Faculty (see Section 2).

Each of the UoA’s subject areas secured external grant funding during the cycle. External
grants added intellectual capacity to the UoA by bringing high-quality PDRFs and PhD students
into the UoA, and improving the level and scope of research events and training. They have
enabled us to build new partnerships with major external stakeholders and expand our
academic networks, creating long-term relationships with universities as far afield as Australia
and Egypt. The increase in grant capture has generated new research infrastructure, including
open-access datasets. A wide range of submitted outputs, including monographs by Bentley,
Billiani, Hutchings and Tolz, Matras and Scott, and all submitted ICSs were supported by
external grants.


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Of 20 grants over £200,000 received by the UoA staff during the REF2021 cycle, particularly
large ones include:

       ERC Consolidator Grant ‘The Lexical Semantics of Lexical Categories’ (Koontz-
        Garboden, €1,990,000)
       AHRC-funded OWRI ‘Cross-Language Dynamics’ consortium (Hutchings, Matras and
        Schultze-Berndt, £3,970,000; value to the UoA of £956,275)
       AHRC-funded ‘Genealogies of Knowledge: The Evolution and Contestation of Concepts
        across Time and Space’ (Baker and Pérez-González, £975,727) and 'Reframing
        Russia for the Global Mediasphere' (Hutchings and Tolz, £885,125)
       ESRC-funded ‘ESOL Stepping Stones’ (Cameron-Faulkner, £323,501)
       DFG (German Research Foundation)-funded ‘Incrementality in Semantic Processing’
        (Hohaus, €344,100)

Alongside senior colleagues, grants over £200,000 were secured by ECRs (Aguiló, Eissa-
Barroso, Hohaus, Strycharczuk and Tipton) and mid-career researchers (Cameron-
Faulkner and Scorer). Mid-career researchers also gained experience as PIs on medium-
size projects (e.g. Baffelli, Behar and Billiani) and played substantial roles as Co-Is (e.g.
Armstrong on an AHRC-funded project led by Warwick and Llano on an ERC-funded project
led by Cambridge).

Scholarly Infrastructure

The rich library and archival resources of the University and the city provide an excellent
environment for Languages research. Facilities that our staff and PGRs use and collaborate
with include the John Rylands Library (JRL), Chetham’s Library, Manchester Central Library,
Manchester Museum and the Whitworth Gallery. The JRL is one of only five national research
libraries and is the largest non-legal deposit library in the UK. It has the largest collection of
electronic resources in any university library in Europe (Section 4.2 Institutional Statement).

During this REF cycle, the University made a major investment in the exploration of the John
Rylands Library’s special collections by establishing the John Rylands Research Institute
(JRRI) in 2013. This acts as an important point for the capture of externally generated
humanities research income, philanthropic donation and impact work, facilitating the
development of research projects which address the data-turn in the Humanities. The JRL’s
uniquely rich collections of relevance to UoA research include French, German, Italian, Spanish
and Slavonic collections, the Cairo Genizah Hebrew-Arabic collection, the Crawford Chinese
collection, the Spencer, Christie and Bullock early Italian printed books collections and the
Modern Literary Archive. These collections, as well as those at Chatham’s and Manchester
Central Library, informed research of Armstrong, Angusheva-Tihanov, Brillaud, Denison
(Cat. B), Eissa-Barroso, Jefferies, Homei, Littler, Milner and Parker. A major collection of
early-modern Japanese manuscripts at the John Rylands Library is the main source for Favi’s
post-doctoral work on social transformations in 17 th-19th-century Japan. To facilitate
international access to these collections the JRRI created research partnerships with other
world-leading institutions, including the Library of Congress, Newberry Library (Chicago) and
the Huntington Library (California); the JRRI also funds visiting fellowships. The application for
Favi’s current Marie Curie fellowship was developed during her time as a JRRI-funded visiting
fellow.

The JRRI’s commitment to open research and maximizing global access to its holdings is
further reflected in the collections’ digitization initiatives, in which UoA staff play a leading role.
Strategically targeted internal funding helped build infrastructure for digitization projects and
facilitated the receipt of substantial external grants to complete these initiatives. UoM invested
£1,500,000 in the development of the Library’s Special Collection Image Viewer. This work was


                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

led by Armstrong in collaboration with Cambridge University’s Digital Library team. On the
back of JRRI seed-funding Parker and Jefferies obtained a Leverhulme Trust grant (£350,000)
for a project involving the digitization of Heinrich Simon’s personal papers -- a rich resource for
studying German cultural history. JRRI funding for the digitization of Mary Hamilton’s papers of
central importance to research on the history of English language led to an AHRC grant to
complete this work (Co-I Denison (Cat. B); £248,000 for the UoA). Armstrong’s AHRC-funded
digitization of early printed editions of Petrarch (£90,000) enjoyed additional JRRI financial
support.

Subject-specific databases underpinning UoA research include the audio-visual annotated
corpora of endangered languages with the Documentation of Endangered Languages
(DOBES) archive, and the Translational English and the Genealogies of Knowledge corpora.
Open to all researches, they attract visiting scholars from across the globe (e.g. @40 visiting
researchers hosted annually by CTIS). The MLM Data Tool, developed with CLD consortium
funding, brings together a variety of datasets in order to help stakeholders obtain a
differentiated picture of Manchester’s multilingualism.

LEL houses high-specification phonetics and psycholinguistics laboratories which enable
research at the intersections of phonetics, phonology, sociolinguistics, and psycholinguistics, as
well as collaboration between staff, postgraduates and even undergraduates (through the
above-mentioned ‘Learning through Research’ scheme and Manchester Q-Step Centre
internships). During the REF2021 period, the University invested £100,000 in upgrading to
portable ultrasound and electroglottography equipment in the phonetics laboratory, and the
acquisition of a new sound attenuated booth and eye-tracking and electroencephalography
facilities for the psycholinguistics laboratory. CTIS’s interpreting studio is beneficial for research
on simultaneous interpreting – a growing area of UoA postgraduate research.

The research environment is enhanced by UoM’s Whitworth Gallery and Manchester Museum,
which hold collections of artefacts pertaining to UoA-studied cultures. Collaborations with these
institutions contributed to the development of research agendas and impact. For example, the
Whitworth Gallery contributed to the activities of the Asian Research Network for Arts, led by
academics from Greater Manchester universities and supported by the Manchester China
Institute that conducts and promotes multi-disciplinary research on China with policy
implications. As part of the Network’s impact activities, UoA staff organized a series of Chinese
art exhibitions, informed by staff research, and a symposium for museum curators from East
Asia at the Gallery. Within the framework of the Creative Manchester initiative, MLM and the
Manchester Museum launched a pioneering Multilingual Museum initiative (see Section 4).

Operational and Organizational Infrastructure

UoA research structures operate at departmental, School and Faculty levels. This enables an
appropriate balance between individuals, research groups and the unit’s research strategies,
and the University’s wider priorities. Local research policy is driven by the research centres,
with guidance from the Heads of Departments and two departmental Research Coordinators,
who review the activities and future research plans of UoA-based centres and groupings
annually. The Research Coordinators for MLC and LEL are responsible for day-to-day
management of staff research (advising on research grant bids, arranging peer review of
applications, and annually reviewing research and publication plans with each individual staff
member).

The School’s Research Committee is responsible for research strategy and policy, led by the
School Research Director (Hutchings until 2015). The Research Committee implements the
School strategic plan for research including targets for research income generation, research
output quality and academic impact, and is responsible for the allocation of the School's
research budget. The School Research Support Office, led by the Research Development
Manager, supports the implementation of strategy, facilitates research collaborations, informs


                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

staff of funding opportunities, assists in developing grant applications, manages grant budgets
and monitors the progress of funded projects.

Faculty-level strategic investment and decisions taken since 2014 have directly facilitated some
UoA grant-capture successes. New investment in targeted assistance with grant-writing for
early career colleagues helped five UoA’s ECRs receive large grants. Extensive Faculty
support with ERC and EC applications contributed to Koontz-Garboden’s and Matras’ awards,
and the four UoA-hosted Marie Curie fellowships. UoM’s strategic partnerships with leading
overseas universities facilitated collaborations of UoA staff with Copenhagen on the politics of
religion in East Asia; with Melbourne on Australia’s indigenous languages; and with Toronto on
Russia’s digital media. UoA staff received funding for these collaborations through the
Humanities Strategic Investment Fund, which underpins the Faculty’s internationalization
agenda.

Research Impact Infrastructure

The Impact support system operates across departmental (see Section 2), School and Faculty
levels. SALC has an Impact Support Officer and an academic lead for Impact (Matras till 2018).
They advise colleagues individually and via workshops on maximising impact from existing
research, on identifying and working with external partners, and on designing impact plans for
external research grant bids. At School level, a supplementary research leave policy, funded by
the Faculty’s PERL scheme, has operated since 2017, allowing senior colleagues relief from
teaching in order to develop external impact partnerships. UoM’s policy engagement institute,
Policy@Manchester, offers additional support with the dissemination of policy-oriented
research to relevant stakeholders. It assisted Hutchings, Matras and Tolz in producing policy
briefings for UK government departments and parliamentary select committees. (For details
see their ICSs.)

At both School and Faculty levels, moreover, colleagues have had access to several impact
support funds to take our research beyond academia. This funding, as well as the ESRC
Impact Acceleration Account, supported two ICS (Matras and Tipton) and the work by Gelbin
with Jewish museums in Europe and by Nini with the police. Hutchings received £95,000 from
the AHRC Follow-on Funding (FOF) for Impact and Engagement for developing his ICS.

Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Collaborations and Indicators of Success

Fostering local, national and international collaborations was one of the UoA’s strategic
priorities in REF2014 and is explicitly encouraged by UoA-led research centres, as well as
UoM’s support structures. The inherently multi- and inter-disciplinarity of Languages research
and the UoA’s transnational perspective on studying world cultures means that collaboration is
central to the strategies of all research groupings and most individual researchers.
Collaborations in this REF cycle were, therefore, the result of bottom-up initiatives, as well as
arising from the activities of research centres and School and University initiatives. New
collaborations established since 2014 have embedded this way of working, by developing new
conceptual frameworks for studying language-community relationships, building a suite of
transferable methodologies in key areas of UoA research and making datasets available for
reuse.

Major collaborative initiatives such as Multilingual Manchester and OWRI CLD have enabled
staff to scale up their work, affording them a wider platform, placing them in appropriate
networks and awarding supplementary funds. The increase in the number of large,
collaborative externally-funded UoA-led projects and in UoM’s financial support for
internationalization has produced a significant expansion in the range of UoA collaborations,
with both academic institutions and non-academic bodies. Three of our impact cases are

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

underpinned by collaborations with other universities (Hutchings and Tolz’; Matras’ (2) and
Tipton’s).


Academic Collaborations

Leadership of and participation in international research groupings: The OWRI CLD consortium
involves twenty-four UK and overseas universities, facilitating collaboration between language
specialists and academics in Music, International Relations, Film Studies, Visual Anthropology,
Comparative Literature and Urban Geography. This has enabled it to position Modern
Languages at the cutting edge of humanities research and generate innovative outputs. These
include a multilingual opera exploring the issues of migration and linguistic diversity, a digital
tool to map urban linguistic landscapes and a set of films using visual means to highlight
language’s relationship with community formation and maintenance.

LEL staff played an important role in the establishment of the ESRC International Centre for
Language and Communicative Development (LuCiD). The Centre is led by UoM’s Department
of Psychology and involves collaboration with Lancaster and Liverpool, as well as experts in the
USA and four European countries. LEL staff deliver the LuCiD research strand led by
Cameron-Faulkner that investigates prelinguistic development in minority cultures.
Collaboration between linguists and psychologists also drives research in the Centre for the
Study of the Dynamics and Adaptability of Linguistic Structures at Tübingen, to which Hohaus
contributes through her ‘Incrementality in Semantic Processes’ project.

Establishing research networks: UoA staff target UKRI funding schemes which support
international research networks to establish and sustain international collaborations. For
example, the UoA-led ‘Religion and Minorities’ project, linking UoM with universities in Japan,
was supported by the ESRC/AHRC UK-Japan SSH connection grant (Baffelli); projects on the
politics of culture in Latin America were supported by the AHRC Research Networking Scheme
and the Leverhulme Trust International Networks Scheme, with scholars from Colombia and
Brazil equitably involved as co-investigators (Sá, Scorer). The UoA has maximized strategic
partnerships established by the University to support collaborative projects with the Universities
of Copenhagen, Melbourne and Toronto. These collaborations facilitated research on religious
identities in East Asia (Baffelli), and enabled the documenting of Australia’s endangered
indigenous languages (Schultze-Berndt) and the launching of a Manchester-Toronto digital
media research hub (Hutchings).

Large-scale, resource-intensive projects: Collaborations established through externally funded
projects allow us to design new inter-disciplinary methodologies and create datasets to address
questions which could only be tackled through large-scale, resource-intensive and
interdisciplinary research. For example, collaboration between Koontz-Garboden and four
PDRFs through the ERC-funded ‘Lexical Semantics’ project enables in-depth fieldwork and a
200 languages typological survey, offering a new way of theorizing the link between word
meaning and category. This area of research has been further developed through Koonzt-
Garboden’s collaboration with the University of Texas in a cross-linguistic and typological study
of the universal principles that determine what kinds of verb meanings are possible in the
world’s languages (the US’s National Science Foundation-funded ‘Verbal Roots across
Languages’ project). The Norwegian Research Council-funded ‘Constraints on Syntactic
Variation’ project, involving Breban and Borjars’ collaboration with linguists across seven
European universities developed major new resources for a comparative study across time and
space of early Germanic languages. Collaboration with data scientists made it methodologically
possible for UoA staff to deliver a comprehensive analysis of European audiences’ responses
to Russia’s (dis)information campaigns (Hutchings and Tolz) and to develop searchable
electronic corpora for researching the role of translation in negotiating the meanings of key
political and legal concepts throughout history (Baker and Pérez-González).



                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

In line with its agenda set in 2014, the UoA has been active in developing collaborative doctoral
training initiatives. In the assessment period, CTIS led the development of two new doctoral
training programmes in translation and interpreting, one including collaboration with Shanghai
Jiao Tong University which established the Baker Centre for Translation and Intercultural
Studies named after UoA staff member, Baker, and the above-mentioned ARTIS programme in
collaboration with two other UK universities. Baffelli was director of the AHRC NWCDTP,
comprising seven HEIs in the North West, and Tolz represented Manchester in the AHRC
CEELBAS CDT.


Collaboration with Non-Academic Partners

Over the REF cycle we have expanded and deepened the number and range of our
collaborations with stake-holders in the media, educational sector and public services;
developed much more active involvement of researchers with local and national policy
initiatives (Baffelli, Cameron-Faulkner, Cave, Homei, Hutchings, Nini, Matras, Tipaldou,
Tipton, Tolz) and initiated new collaborations with the creative industries (Billiani, Gelbin,
Matras, Scorer). The expansion has been facilitated by the UoA’s REF2014 strategy for
developing impact through improved support for and training of staff and the full recognition of
research impact potential in appointments and promotions.

All large, externally funded projects led by UoA staff involve non-academic collaborators. The
OWRI CLD consortium, for example, has over 30 non-academic partners and collaborators,
ranging from local schools to the Office of National Statistics. Research centres led by the UoA
also have extensive partnerships outside academia. Benefits are mutual. For example, MLM’s
partnership with local stakeholders (Manchester City Council, social services and police)
facilitated the development by MLM of a novel ‘non-linear’, responsive model of participatory
research designed to capture a holistic picture of multilingual practices in the complex setting of
a global city.

UoA collaborations with non-academic partners in the arts sector has received a major boost
from the University’s strategic investment in the Creative Manchester initiative to foster
collaborations with creative industries. The largest project which will be completed in the next
REF cycle is the Multilingual Museum programme initiated with OWRI CLD support, and for
which £500,000 of Creative Manchester’s budget has been allocated. Led by MLM, the
programme aims to make Manchester Museum a mirror of the city’s language diversity, a
platform for drafting ideas and a hub for encounters among individuals, groups and
communities (2019-2023).

The UoA’s REF2014 strategy suggested concentrating resources to support our contributions
to society in the following areas: influencing policy and public discourse around the issue of
language diversity and other strategically important areas pertaining to UoA research;
contributing to cultural life and civil society through the collection and interpretation of linguistic,
visual and textual data; and contributing to education in languages and to the preservation of
community and heritage languages. Our submitted impact cases reflect work in all these areas,
but UoA contributions go well beyond the activities described in the ICSs. The range and scope
of this further impact is reflected in the following examples:

Contributions to Policy, Public Discourse and Public Perceptions:
For example, Sa’s AHRC-funded research on race relations in Latin America helped raise
public awareness of multiple forms of racism in Brazil and offered advice to the Brazilian
government on how to combat racist abuse of indigenous communities by creating a database
of relevant cases and a policy document. As part of Hutchings’ AHRC FOF grant, policy
briefings and recommendations on media coverage of Islam were produced for the BBC
Editorial Standards Department.



                                                                                                 Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Contribution to Cultural Life and Civil Society:
This long-established UoA strength saw further development. OWRI CLD funding allowed the
UoA to support the making of short films by early-career filmmakers and the showcasing of
their work in Manchester’s Centre for International Contemporary Art, and to collaborate with
the British Council around the use of cinema as a vehicle for the expression of linguistic identity
among minorities in conflict zones. We further expanded the range of our collaborations with
museums and the media, as reflected in the submitted ICSs. Additionally, within the framework
of their projects on the arts under European dictatorships and on Jewish cultures in Europe,
UoA staff collaborated with museums and broadcasters in Europe. Billiani curated an
exhibition with the Fondazione Prada in Milan, aiming to correct public (mis)perceptions of the
politics of culture under non-liberal regimes; Gelbin acted as an academic expert on the
German-French ARTE television programme ‘Golem’ and curated a Holocaust film season in
Berlin for an audience of approximately 4,000 people; and SPLAS staff gave public lectures at
Manchester’s annual Latin American film festival Viva!.

Contribution to Education:
This continued to be a major component of the UoA’s impact agenda. UoA staff used funding
from the ESRC to create the first English-language programme aimed at low income non-
English speaking mothers, which has been introduced in primary schools and community
centres in Greater Manchester (Cameron-Faulkner, 2014-2024). The OWRI CLD consortium,
in partnership with Huwbaird Sixth-Form College, is building a hub of seven schools in the
Merseyside region with a view to sharing innovative practices in teaching modern languages
(e.g. exploring the potential of film as a language teaching and learning tool). Our staff
expertise was sought by educational institutions abroad too, as reflected in Cave advising
schools in Japan around how to teach history classes on the topic of war as part of his AHRC-
funded project.

Indicators of Wider Contributions and Recognition

Our staff contribute to the sustainability of the constitutive disciplines by (1) advancing
interdisciplinary research focused on languages that tackles challenges of global importance;
(2) demonstrating the high impact potential of Languages research more broadly; (3) training
future research leaders; (4) creating new open-access resources (e.g. major digitized archival
collections and databases).

We further sustain our disciplines through our leadership of learned societies and participation
as experts in governmental and international-organizations committees. Significant examples
include: Baker, Vice-President of the International Association of Translation and Intercultural
Studies and co-director of the Jiao Tong Baker Centre for Translation and Intercultural Studies
in Shanghai; Littler: President of the Association of German Studies in Great Britain and
Ireland and member of the Executive Committee of the UCML; Salhi: Vice-President of the
British Society for Middle Eastern Studies and Member of the International Advisory Council of
World Congress of Middle Eastern Studies; Baffelli: Honorary Secretary, the British
Association for Japanese Studies; Bentley: expert peer reviewer for the Italian Ministry of
Education; Hutchings: member of the AHRC-Russian Foundation for Basic Research Expert
Advisory Committee; Olohan: Elected Board Member, European Commission’s EMT Network;
Pérez-González: Board Member, Audiovisual Translation and Dissemination Committee of
China Alliance of Radio, Film and Television, and Chinese Ministry of Culture’s Chinese Culture
Translation Studies Support Network; Tolz: Member of International Advisory Boards of the
European University, St. Petersburg, and Moscow’s Higher School of Economics.

Borjars chaired the ‘Modern Languages and Linguistics’ sub-panel and Salhi was a member of
the ‘Area Studies’ sub-panel in REF2014 and is member of this sub-panel in REF2021; Baker
was member of the Humanities Panel of the Research Assessment Exercise in Hong Kong.
Parker chaired the Department for Education’s Panel for Modern and Classical Languages,
established to reform A-levels in Languages. Hutchings chaired the BASEES Nove Prize


                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Committee and Salhi was a judge for the International Booker Prize for Arabic Fiction and the
Saif Ghobash Banipal Prize for Arabic Literary Translation.

Forty Category A staff are members of editorial boards of peer-reviewed journals and academic
book series. Thirteen academics edited peer-review journals, including leading journals in our
fields: German Life and Letters (Littler); Italian Studies (Armstrong); Journal of Linguistics
(Borjars); The Interpreter and Translation Trainer (Pérez-González); The Leo Baeck Institute
Year Book (Gelbin); Linguistics (Bentley); Modern Italy (Billiani); Revue Romane (Hansen);
Romani Studies (Matras); The British Journal of Middle Eastern Studies (Salhi); Probus:
International Journal of Romance Linguistics (Bermúdez-Otero ); Translation Spaces
(Olohan); Translation Studies (Strowe).

UoA staff are systematically involved in the work of Research Councils, Grant Committees and
similar committees in the UK and internationally (in China, eight European countries, North
America and Israel). In addition to peer-reviewing funding applications, all staff regularly
reviewed articles and manuscripts for leading journals and publishers in our fields, including
Cornell, CUP, OUP and Princeton.

Staff co-organized 33 international conferences, including those in Boston, Ben-Gurion (Israel),
Hong Kong, Kyoto, Princeton and Tizi-Ouzou (Algeria) Universities. Bermúdez-Otero and
Strycharczuk are members of the organizing team of the annual Manchester Phonology
Meeting, one of the key phonology conferences in the world.

In addition to the above-described contribution by the UoA staff to designing and delivering
collaborative PhD research training, we regularly act as external examiners for PhDs across the
UK and abroad, including in Algeria (University of Tizi Ouzou); Belgium (Ghent); Italy (EUI,
Florence); Holland (Amsterdam); Israel (Tel Aviv and Ben Gurion Universities); France (L'École
des hautes études en sciences sociales); Hong Kong; Malta; New Zealand (Laidlaw Graduate
School); Norway (Bergen, Oslo); Spain (Barcelona, Seville); USA (Princeton). Additionally,
eight members of the UoA hosted and supervised visiting PhD students from Australia, Eastern
Europe and Latin America.

Twenty-two prestigious fellowships and visiting professorships were held by staff at universities
and research centres across the world, including: Baffelli’s fellowship at the Norwegian
Academy of Science and Letters, Baker’s visiting professorship at Shanghai International
Studies University; Billiani’s visiting professorship at Napolo Federico II University; Bermúdez-
Otero’s Brugmann Fellowship at Leipzig; Borjars’ Professor II in Nordic Languages at Oslo;
Cave’s Distinguished Visiting Associate Professorship at Kyoto University; Matras’ British
Academy Wolfson Professorship; Milner’s Katharine Pantzer Fellowship at Harvard; Mostafa’s
visiting fellowship at Hamad Bin Khalifa University, Qatar; Pérez-González’s visiting
professorship at Hong Kong City University; and Tolz’s visiting professorship at Hebrew
University. Denison is FBA; Hansen is Fellow of the Royal Danish Academy of Science and
Letters and of the Academia Europaea; Hutchings and Tolz are AcSS Fellows.

Prizes received by staff include Angusheva-Tihanov’s John Bell Prize for the best book in
Bulgarian Studies from the American Association of Bulgarian Studies; Armstrong’s prize for
the best article published in Italian Studies; Strycharczuk’s award for the best article by an
ECR from The Journal of Phonetics; and Woerner-Powell’s De Gruyter Prize in the Study of
Islam from the British Association for Islamic Studies. 25 Category A staff gave (often multiple)
keynote addresses at conferences across Europe, Japan, Middle East and the USA.

Overall, during the REF2021 cycle, the UoA has enhanced its performance across all areas. It
has secured significant research income, including one of the UK’s four OWRI grants, which
has also extended its capacity for interdisciplinary innovation and range of academic and non-
academic partners and collaborators. By pioneering a new model for research and public
engagement, our Multilingual Manchester unit has, along with our strong orientation towards


                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

contemporary language-based area studies, enabled us to maximize our contribution to policy
making at local, national and international levels. The UoA’s centrality to the Creative
Manchester initiative generated highly productive collaborations with the creative industries. Its
lead role in the NWCDTP, supportive operational infrastructure and major successes in PDRA
recruitment boosted its research capacity. In the next five years, we will develop these legacies,
focusing particularly on deepening stakeholder partnerships, advance research around
emerging new themes, and support the UoA’s large cohort of earlier-career researchers with
career development and mid-career colleagues with the transition to senior leadership roles.




                                                                                           Page 21
