Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution:
University College London (UCL)

Unit of Assessment:
UoA11 Computer Science

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
Our research environment is among the best in the world for Computer Science (CS). We are
surrounded by world-leading scholars in science, engineering, humanities and the arts. Our location
in the heart of London gives us access to many other world-leading academic and non-academic
institutions and activities. This is vital for CS, as our field is one that relies on applicability; it draws on
and contributes to a wide range of other disciplines and fields of human endeavour. Our cross-
disciplinarity is sustained by strong central support from UCL and the Faculty of Engineering,
managing expansion and development, and an outstanding infrastructure, enabling us to attract
substantial funding and high levels of engagement from all sectors. Our research is informed and
developed by rich interactions with industry, policymakers, government, schools and the general
public.

We have a strategic vision of our distinct role in the development of the international research
agenda in experimental CS that informs all our activities. We are a key partner for many other
departments across UCL, offering the ability and willingness to create new syntheses of ideas, to
push the boundaries of existing intellectual endeavour and to collaboratively create interdisciplinary
and, ultimately, transdisciplinary centres of excellence. This is reflected in our leadership of a wide-
ranging set of UCL centres from which we and others benefit. Their diversity of focus, vision, tools
and perspective enables us to overcome artificial disciplinary boundaries in seeking to address
problems of global significance.

1.A. Structure
To a significant extent our UoA directly corresponds to UCL’s Department of CS, which submits 106
staff to REF2021. We also submit staff who are part of our collaborative sphere and integrated into
our community: two from the Department of Information Studies; one from the Gatsby Computational
Neuroscience Unit; and five from the Division of Psychology and Language Sciences, who are
integrated in UCL Interaction Centre (UCLIC). Our submitted FTE rose from 75 for REF2014 to
100.4.
Our 12 groups and 13 centres (Figure 1) create an environment that structurally embeds diversity of
perspective founded on disciplinary strength. Research groups focus on specific sub-disciplines
within CS, while centres are intellectually cross-cutting, inter-disciplinary homes for coordinated
research programmes involving CS staff and other departments/institutions. While groups provide
focus on coherent investigation of sub-disciplines, centres are bridges, formalising strategic intra- and
inter-departmental partnerships.

This ecosystem is collaborative by nature. Both groups and centres reflect our multifaceted portfolio,
and draw from the rich UCL environment to drive the cross-pollination of ideas. Each group and
centre has a leader who is internationally eminent and who evolves strategy, coordinates recruitment
and manages members. CS can readily use its scale in forming new partnerships and activities. For
example, we identified a number of grand challenges for CS, and were able to mobilise collaborative
effort in addressing these (Figure 2).


                                                                                                         Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




     Figure 1: Research Groups and related trans-departmental Centres. Edges denote joint staff membership.




                                                                                                         Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 2: The eight global research themes within UCL-CS and related research groups.

Our centres are located within the department's physical estate while other centres are distributed
across a number of departments or link with other institutions, to ensure maximum effective synergy
between their partners.

1.B. Research Strategy
Leadership by scholars for scholars
It is UCL’s policy that all its leaders, from Provost to heads of groups and centres, are scholars first
and managers second. This has a profound effect on UCL generally, and on UCL-CS in particular:
two of the past three Faculty deans are world-renowned computer scientists, with one of them now
serving as Chief Scientific Adviser for National Security to the UK Government. For most of the REF
period, our HoD was Prof John Shawe-Taylor, a world-leading scientist who vacated his position to
accept the UNESCO Chair in Artificial Intelligence (AI). His place has been taken by Prof. Stephen
Hailes, who has a background in foundational engineering and strong interdisciplinary links. His remit
is to continue to ensure the strength of our existing activities whilst leading the identification and
development of new (disciplinary and interdisciplinary) opportunities for the future. Leadership at UCL
is founded on the development of intellectual and strategic cases, which motivates all our activities.
For example, recruitment and promotions are based on scientific and engineering merit, and support
is given to initiatives that are intellectually exciting, innovative and imaginative, rather than those that
will accrue the highest immediate financial reward.

Experimentation grounded in theory
Our research is underpinned by a symbiotic relationship between theory, experimentation and
empiricism. Our shared experimental orientation emphasises measurement, methodological rigour
and ultimately reproducibility. Not only does this bind together our research but it determines our
strategy, guides our recruitment policy, directs our investment and underpins our research education.
We are an established world-leading centre for research in experimental CS. Over the course of the


                                                                                                     Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
REF period, we were able to consolidate that success, with our department’s position in the QS
World Rankings for CS rising from 25th in 2014 to 17th in 2020 (4th in the UK).
Our distinctive intellectual position as a focus for experimentation grounded in theory requires wide
coverage of the CS intellectual landscape. This ensures that we draw on appropriate theory (derived
from multiple sub-fields). It allows our experimentation to be conducted in real world settings. Our
large size enables sustained development of a diversity of links between CS research and the many
other leading centres of research activity within UCL and internationally.

Strategic plans
Our strategic plans are developed and refined with awareness of and respect for the REF cycle but
are not dominated by it. The number of academic staff in the department has increased by 36% over
the REF period (from 76 to 103), a result of strategic investment that flows from a recognition of the
importance and potential of CS.
Plans described in our REF2014 submission set the direction and scale of growth, but we have also
grown in response to emerging topics such as AI and have responded agilely to capitalise on our
capabilities in this rapidly developing area. We made a coordinated investment in core machine
learning, computer vision, graphics and natural language processing, leading to the establishment of
the UCL AI Centre. We have also significantly expanded Information Security; eight new
appointments were made strengthening and broadening the group’s expertise. Similar growth has
been made in the PPLV group, and we are in the process of further developing the links between the
PPLV group and both the UCL Quantum activities and the Department of Philosophy. We have
recently hired a major team led by Sriram Subramanian working on innovative displays, haptics and
multisensory Interfaces; they joined the UCL Interaction Centre (UCLIC) creating the largest centre of
HCI research activity in Europe.
Inspired by the Faculty’s strapline ‘Change the World’, the department has established a GCRF
group that coordinates and promotes research that can impact the lives of people in developing
countries. This has prompted specific success with Global Challenges Research Funding (GCRF)
calls and establishing collaborations with UNESCO and WHO, as well as developing a broader
strategy to maximise the potential impact of its research in developing countries; see Section 3,
Large grants and strategic awards. John Shawe-Taylor’s appointment as the first UNESCO Chair of
AI reinforces our international agenda. He spearheaded the UNESCO COMEST group to draft a
proposal for UNESCO recommendations around the ethical use of AI, subsequently accepted in the
November 2019 assembly of UNESCO. He has also been collaborating with the newly approved
Category 2 UNESCO Centre for AI in Slovenia (IRCAI). His charity, “Knowledge 4 All Foundation”
(K4All) has helped champion a UNESCO recommendation promoting the use of open educational
resources (OER)s. K4All is active in a number of projects with UCL promoting both the exploitation of
OERs in education (see x5gon.org) and the development of a network of AI Researchers and
practitioners in sub-Saharan Africa.

We have also built strong strategic alliances with industrial partners and co-developed the Portico
Ventures Programme with UCL Business, allowing CS researchers more freedom to take their ideas
to market through spinouts. The creation of the strategic alliances team (SAT) has enabled more
industrial links to be established agilely, including helping the Financial Computing and the AI Centre
to build and maintain strong links with companies such as Google Deepmind, Facebook (FAIR),
CISCO, Amazon and Adobe. Strategically, this has raised our profile of innovation to be a third pillar,
alongside research and teaching.

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
During this REF period, the department has been developing plans with UCL Estates for bespoke
new premises. A site has been identified and an outline design completed, the project has been
added to UCL’s major project portfolio, and financial models are currently being finalised. The
development combines: a new building for CS, in which our strategic mix of research, teaching and
innovation is core to the design; space for a new UCL Institute of Interdisciplinary Computation,
creating a physical space for new interdisciplinary collaboration; and student residential
accommodation that can be repurposed for conference accommodation when not used.
In the interim, we have acquired a floor of 90 High Holborn (1,921m2), housing CMIC and the new AI
Centre with space for 218 staff, and 169 Euston Road (1,850m2), which will host offices and labs for
various groups, including UCLIC, VECG, InfoSec, Financial Computing, with a total headcount of
140. Refurbishment of the latter has been delayed due to COVID-19.
The department has been instrumental in helping shape the new UCL EAST development on the
Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park complex. This will house both the GDI Hub (currently at Here East)
and a new Robotics and AI centre that will see the hiring of a further ~24 academic and teaching staff
from 2021, further developing robotics activity within the department. We have recently hired two
junior academics in robotics working across both our Bloomsbury and Here East campuses to
complement existing staff.

1.C. Mechanisms for strategic planning
Institutional-level support and strategy
UCL has provided extensive support for our research via central research facilitation officers to
support applications for large grants, such as Horizon 2020, ERC, CDT/DTC and charity or research
council programme and platform grants. Centralised mechanisms for organising mock interviews
have substantially increased success rates. Large grants are routinely supplemented by centrally
funded studentships, typically one fully funded per £1M of award. Many of our staff have benefited
directly from pump priming research/innovation support from central funds such as the UCL Grand
Challenges small grants and special initiatives: French Embassy collaborative science and
technology workshops (Alexander 2016 £10K); UCL Knowledge and Innovation funds (Hailes 2020
£15K; Alexander 2017 £15K); a total of £1.2M from UCL-EPSRC Impact Accelerator Innovation and
Enterprise funds distributed over 35 projects; UCLH Biomedical Research Centre pump-priming
awards (Drobnjak 2019 £50K; Parker 2019 £50K); Capital Equipment fund for a hyperpolarised-
xenon imaging device (Parker 2019 £400K); UCL-MRC skills development fellowship (Wijeratne
2019 £250K).

External Relations
Over the REF period, the department’s External Advisory Board included the following members:
Prof Mandy Chessell (Chair), IBM; Dr Philip Bonhard, Accenture; Dr Reza Hazemi, Deloitte; Dr
Andrew Herbert, former Chair at Microsoft Research; Aideen O'Brien, Morgan Stanley; Lesley Payne,
Nuffield Health; Dr Paul Phillips, Causata; Dr Geoffrey Taylor, SAS; Dr Richard Wheeldon, Cisco; Dr
Jason Kingdon, Blue Prism.

A significant recommendation of the board was to forge better and more links with industry. To this
end, a Strategic Alliances Team (SAT) was created in the department, comprising three full-time
members of staff with strong industry and industry-liaison experience. This resulted in significantly
more regular contact with key industry partners, ranging from large world-leading organisations (see

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Section 4). Consequently, we have seen new streams of funding for research built around shared
strategic priorities, joint labs, and spinout opportunities, as well as substantial engagement in our
programme of education. The SAT has created a tiered model of engagement to support 35 strategic
industry partners (Tier 1), 83 collaborator industry partners (Tier 2) and over 150 supporter industry
partners (Tier 3). Relations with spin-outs are also strengthened, with CS staff and students actively
collaborating with 26 founders (Tier 4).
The SAT oversees external engagement at three levels: strategic research collaborations with
industry, teaching and student related engagements covering student projects, placements (IXN) and
internships (NXI) and, lastly, the engagement related to commercialisation and knowledge transfer
that includes the relationships with the department’s spin-outs ecosystem. The SAT also curates
impact information and links together colleagues, cutting across sub-disciplinary boundaries.
A new External Relations Committee was formulated with a remit, both to define departmental
strategy for maintaining, growing and deriving value from external relationships across all aspects of
our operation (including research, education, innovation, alumni), and to oversee the
operationalisation of that strategy. The first meeting of this committee was explicitly delayed from Q2
2020 to Q4 2020, given pandemic prioritisation; the committee has been fully since.

Strategic research fund
Our yearly fund, which has an indicative budget of £100k, was established by the department for
small proof-of-concept projects. It has pump-primed initiatives that were too premature for external
investment; awards averaged at £3,600, with individual awards having been as high as £49k, where
multiple staff benefitted from the investment. Over the REF period, the fund paid out 104 small grants
totalling £324k.

Strategic Planning Retreat
The department’s academic staff attend biannual planning retreats. These help to ensure that all staff
contribute to and support strategic plans for our research. The retreats also enhance collaboration
between our groups and centres and have helped to inspire synergetic projects that define CS grand
challenges.

1.D. Achievements and strategic development and expansion of groups and
     centres
Our department’s activities are wide-ranging; each research group contributes uniquely to our
portfolio. We now introduce our groups, highlighting aspects that illustrate their contribution.

Autonomous Systems (AS)
Established in 2015, AS conducts research on theoretical, computational and experimental aspects
of autonomous systems, from sensing to learning and decision making, across a wide range of real-
world domains. The group has world-leading expertise in the area of decentralised data fusion, high-
performance state estimation, and statistical models of uncertainty, with direct applications to map
building and navigation, space missions and, more recently, robot locomotion and manipulation in
natural uncertain environments. The group regularly collaborates with world-leading industrial
partners in the area, such as BAE Systems and NASA Ames, as well as smaller local companies
(e.g., MoSys Ltd). Members of the group co-founded the company KIT-AR, https://www.kit-ar.com/,
whose smart manufacturing technology is based on the group’s research work on sensor fusion and

                                                                                                   Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
scene understanding. AS is also renowned for its interdisciplinary work, having built new sensing
devices and deployed them on wild animals, working with veterinarians to develop new knowledge of
how such animals navigate in their environment. The group is part of a strategic investment of the
department and UCL in the Robotics and Autonomous Systems area, and its staff contributing to the
newly established MSc Robotics and Computation.

Bioinformatics
This group is internationally recognised for its work in applying machine-learning algorithms to
problems in biology and medicine, and for the BBSRC-funded PSIPRED Workbench, a set of freely
available Web-based bioinformatics tools. The service is used by biologists 500–600 times daily and
has recently been awarded ELIXIR-UK Node Service status in recognition of its importance in the
field. Research highlights from the group include applying deep learning to protein structure, large-
scale machine learning systems to predict gene function, applications of machine learning to cancer
informatics data and applying DCNNs to interpreting microscopy images. This work has been
published in top-tier journals including Nature and Cell, and Professor Jones regularly appears on the
Clarivate Highly Cited Researchers List, including the most recent list published in 2020. The
group is supported by the ERC (Advanced Grant), BBSRC, Wellcome Trust and CRUK. Industry links
include consulting on Google DeepMind's AlphaFold project and research contracts from Pfizer Inc.
(on deep learning-assisted protein modelling) and Elsevier BV (gene function prediction).

Financial Computing & Analytics (FCA)
FCA investigates socio-economic systems using tools from statistical physics, network theory, and
CS. FCA research is laying the foundations for the study of the new digital economy at the interface
between technology and society. The group’s work is of importance to regulators, policymakers, the
services industry and citizens. FCA researchers collaborate with the private and public financial
services sector including investment banks, retail banks, central banks, regulators, hedge funds,
financial services technology firms, insurance companies, reinsurance companies, stock exchanges,
alternative trading and execution venues. The group supports the DTC in Financial Computing that
has produced over 100 Ph.D. students since its creation. FCA group also supports two master
programmes in Financial Risk Management and in Computational Finance which have been ranked
among the top five in the world. Furthermore, two new master programmes on the digital economy
and financial technologies started in 2021. The group trains about eighty postgraduate students per
year and has an average of 3 research associates. In 2015, the group members were at the core of
the creation of the UCL Centre for Blockchain Technologies (CBT) that is the world-reference
centre in this domain. The centre has over 200 associates and is running research initiatives together
with the faculty of laws, the departments of economics, political sciences, social sciences and the
Bartlett.

Information Security (InfoSec)
This group is leading in Cyber Security Research, nationally and internationally. It is recognized as
an Academic Centre of Excellence in Cyber Security Research by EPSRC and NCSC, hosts one
of two Centres for doctoral training in Cybersecurity, and is a key part of the National Research
Centre on Privacy, Harm Reduction and Adversarial Influence Online (REPHRAIN). Group
members regularly publish in, serve on program committees of, and deliver keynotes at, top security
and cryptography conferences. They have secured regular national and EU research funding and
research gifts from top technology companies (Google, Facebook, Amazon, Xerox, Nokia, etc).

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
InfoSec has established expertise in human, organisational and economic aspects of cybersecurity,
that have impacted national-level policies and advice on cybersecurity, as well as cryptography,
privacy, distributed ledgers and Blockchain, measurements, and online harms. Members of InfoSec
have co-founded, and have seen technologies developed in the group be used by, a number of start-
ups (Chainspace, which was later acquired by Facebook, Nym, Difinity, etc.) and contributed to
national cybersecurity initiatives, such as editing the NCSC Cyber Security Body of Knowledge.

Intelligent Systems (IS)
This is a world-leading research group in AI with many substantial theoretical and applied
contributions in machine learning, computational statistics, natural language processing,
computational models of argument, and quantum information. The group co-founded the UCL AI
Centre in 2019 to facilitate foundational research, and collaboration across the college. It runs the
UCL CDT in Foundations of AI with £6.7M UKRI funding and £5M industry funding, and the UCL
CDT in Delivering Quantum Technologies (2019–2024). IS works closely with the UCL Gatsby
Computational Neuroscience Unit and UCL Dept of Statistical Sciences through the joint UCL Centre
in Computational Statistics and Machine Learning (CSML), whose director Arthur Gretton is part
of our UoA. We are lead partners (with London Centre for Nanotechnology) on the EPSRC Prosperity
Partnership in Quantum Software for Modeling and Simulation award (£5.4M joint with University of
Bristol and Google). IS is closely involved with leading tech companies. For example, Silver led the
AlphaGo projects at DeepMind with Graepel, both UCL joint appointments; IS recruited the
DeepMind chair Deisenroth and is hosting the first UK cohort of Facebook AI Research PhD
studentships. New appointments strengthen research in machine learning (Kusner, Paige and
Ciliberto), NLP ( Stenetorp and Rocktäschel), quantum information (Masanes), and ML/AI for
healthcare (Przulj and Fernandez-Reyes). With the College of Medicine of the University of Ibadan,
Nigeria, the group created the interdisciplinary African Computational Sciences Centre for Health
and Development to develop AI to address challenges in sub-Saharan countries. We also have a
partnership (led by IS’s Benjamin Guedj) with Inria, see Section 4.B. Further successes come from
the appointment of Shawe-Taylor as UNESCO Professor of AI, the award of the ACM Prize in
Computing to Silver, and the award of the London Mathematical Society Whitehead prize to Cubitt.

Media Futures (MF)
MF are internationally known for frameworks for information retrieval, multi-agent reinforcement
learning, complex networks and online social media analysis, particularly analysis of users’ digital
trails (web searches) to infer user and population health. The group members, 3 Professors and 1
Associate Professor, bring both strong academic and theoretical knowledge as well as deep
commercial experience. Cox (Head of Group) was awarded the 2019 Tony Kent Strix Prize for
contributions to Information Retrieval. Yilmaz received the 2015 Karen Sparck Jones Award for
advancing the field of Information Retrieval and Natural Language Processing. Yilmaz was also
awarded a 2017 EPSRC Fellowship, is Elected Member for ACM SIGIR Executive Committee (2016–
18) and received a Google Faculty Research Award in 2014 to support faculty members working on
problems that will impact how future generations use technology.

Programming Principles, Logic & Verification (PPLV)
PPLV conducts world-leading research in logic (philosophical, mathematical, and computational) and
algebra (especially category theory) and their applications to the semantics, specification, and
verification of programs and systems. The group comprises full-time 8 faculty members (though Pym,

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Head of Group, also has roles in UCL’s Philosophy Dept., in UCL’s Information Security group, and in
the Institute of Philosophy) and includes also O’Hearn (joint with Facebook), Cook (joint with
Amazon, AWS Director of Automated Reasoning), and Alglave (joint with Arm, where she is
responsible for the memory model). O’Hearn’s, Cook’s, and Alglave’s joint appointments have been
vectors for PPLV’s work to have profound industrial impact through tools (such as INFER and Herd)
for program analysis and network and chip verification. The group, which is supported by many very
substantial research grants from bodies including UKRI, the EU, the ERC, and industry, includes a
large, lively, and diverse community of interacting PhD students and postdoctoral staff, whom we
endeavour to develop into substantive roles both within and outwith UCL. Silva received a Philip
Leverhulme Prize in 2016, the 2017 Presburger Award, and the 2018 BCS Needham Award. Alglave
received the 2020 Needham Award. O’Hearn became an FREng and an FRS and received the 2016
Gödel Prize. Cook became an FREng.

Software Systems Engineering (SSE)
The SSE group is internationally renowned for its pioneering and impactful research. SSE has led the
adoption of search-based optimisation, transforming software engineering, and pioneered radical
new ideas, such as applying genetic improvement to software, applying information theory to
software engineering, and analysing code as a natural language. In 2019, Facebook adopted
Sapienz and Sapfix, two of SSE's automatic testing and repair tools, and is now running them at
scale. SSE’s work on time-travel debugging was distributed in Microsoft’s Edge browser. SSE has
enjoyed substantial funding success, winning over £5M and £500k from industry. In 2019, Harman
received both the IEEE Harlan D. Mills and the SIGSOFT Outstanding Research awards. Since
2015, SSE has welcomed four outstanding academics. Petke holds an EPSRC Fellowship. Mechtaev
won the prestigious SIGSOFT Outstanding Dissertation Award in 2019. Jia founded a startup that
Facebook acquired. Federica progressed to full professor in 3 years. SSE runs the internationally
renowned CREST Open Workshop series that has, over 10 years, brought more than 800 world-
renowned researchers to UCL to present and discuss their work.

Systems and Networks
The group is internationally renowned for its contributions to algorithms, protocols, and systems that
underpin the Internet; to network and computer systems security; to wireless networks; and to large-
scale distributed systems. The group has pioneered the design of practical multi-path transport and
congestion control for the Internet and data centres, culminating in standardisation of Multipath TCP
and subsequent deployment by Apple in iOS (see REF3). The group has made significant practical
advances in online privacy: COWL, which protects sensitive web data from malicious JavaScript, has
received significant attention in the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), the standards body for the
web. The group advanced wireless system capacity: by improving the efficiency of interaction
between TCP and WiFi’s MAC layer, and by cooperatively reducing interference among densely
deployed WiFi access points. Handley recently received the ACM SIGCOMM Award (2019) and was
made a Fellow of the Royal Society (2019) for career-long high-impact achievements in Internet
multicast, telephony, congestion control, and open Internet standards and open-source systems in
these areas. Vissicchio received the IRTF Applied Networking Research Prize (2015) for work on
achieving the flexibility of Software-Defined Networking (SDN) switches on legacy IP routers and
routing protocols.




                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

UCL Interaction Centre (UCLIC)
UCLIC is a cross-departmental centre, drawing members from the departments of CS (forming the
eponymous UCLIC group) and psychology (also returned through this UoA). It is internationally
leading in HCI theory and user-centred design methods. In particular, it is known for advancing
conceptual frameworks based on experimental and in-the-wild studies; on behavioural change,
cognitive and affective modelling, collaborative learning, information interaction, physical computing,
smart cities and digital healthcare. Because of its international reputation, UCLIC has grown
considerably in size over the last 7 years, now comprising 15 faculty, including recruiting
Subramanian, holder of 2 major awards and 4 grants (total £2.5million). In addition, Subramanian
was awarded a Royal Academy of Engineering Emerging Technologies Chair. Rogers (UCLIC
director) was recognised as a Microsoft Research Outstanding Collaborator, awarded an MRC
Suffrage and Science Laureate Award, and elected as an ACM Fellow; Blandford received an MRC
Clinical Sciences Centre’s Award to celebrate women in maths and computing. Holloway was
awarded £10M in to set up the GDI Hub. UCLIC led the Intel Collaborative Research Institute
(ICRI), in collaboration with Imperial (2012–2018), concerned with user-centred and technical
exploratory research into sustainable and connected cities ($7.5M). UCLIC has been successful in
receiving several large EU/EPSRC grants, e.g., EPSRC Programme Grant (CHI+MED, 2009–2016,
£6M), collaborating with QMUL, U. Swansea and various hospitals. UCLIC contributes HCI expertise
within substantial interdisciplinary grants such as the i4health CDT and the WEISS (Wellcome Trust
/ EPSRC) Centre.

Virtual Environments & Graphics (VECG)
VECG is known for demonstrating the impact of fundamental computer graphics and real-time multi-
sensory systems research through user experiment on novel prototypes. We are well represented at
venues such as TOG, SIGGRAPH, TVCG, IEEE VR, Eurographics, ACM CHI, CVPR, ICCV and
NeuIPS. The impact of our work is broad: Mitra has founded a new research centre with Adobe in
London; our work on virtual reality and augmented reality led to substantive collaborations, e.g.,
through placements at Microsoft Research Redmond (Steed) and Varjo Technologies (Weyrich).
Recently, Ritschel, winner of the Eurographics Young Researcher Award in 2014, joined us. He was
promoted to Professor in 2019. Yasin also joined us bringing expertise on audio and multisensory
integration. Weyrich, founding member of the UCL Centre for Digital Humanities (UCLDH), one of
the first and leading DH centres in the world, continued as deputy director. UCLDH runs an advanced
digitisation facility for use across arts, engineering and libraries and promotes data science within the
humanities, with ties with the Alan Turing Institute. Mitra received the BCS Roger Needham Award
(2015), and the Eurographics Outstanding Technical Contributions Award (2019). Steed received the
IEEE VGTC’s Virtual Reality Technical Achievement Award (2016). Mitra and Steed were appointed
ACM Distinguished Speakers. VECG students won Eurographics PhD Award 2020 (Aron Monszpart)
and IEEE VGTC Virtual Reality Best Dissertation Award 2018 (Sebastian Friston). Five alumni in
academic positions elsewhere.

Vision and Imaging Science (VIS)
VIS is internationally renowned for ground-breaking research in machine learning for vision and
imaging, deep generative models, 3D vision, robot vision and inverse problems and has high visibility
in all the top computer vision (CVPR, ICCV, ECCV, IEEE PAMI, IJCV), graphics (SIGGRAPH),
robotics (ICRA, IROS) imaging science (SIAM) and medical imaging (MICCAI, IPMI, ISMRM)
venues. VIS members devised area-defining deep-learning models for multitasking (Kokkinos:
                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
DeepLab, UberNet), unsupervised monocular depth estimation (Brostow: MonoDepth), and human
pose estimation (Kokkinos/Agapito: DensePose/Lifting) and long-standing public domain software
packages in medical imaging (Camino, NODDI) and inverse problems (TOAST++) with global user
base. VIS has extensive collaborations with industry partners including Facebook, MSR, Amazon,
Cisco, Siemens, Philips and GSK. VIS has outstanding success in personal fellowship awards and
large grants, see Section 3, and chairing top vision and medical imaging conferences
(CVPR’16/ICCV’23, ECCV’22, IPMI’15). VIS leads two new EPSRC Centres for Doctoral Training
secured in 2019: i4health and Foundational AI,see Section 3.
VIS leads the UCL Centre for Medical Imaging (CMIC) which provides a vital translational pathway
between UCL-CS and Engineering to medicine. CMIC includes over 200 FTE (from 30 in 2005) and
22 affiliated academic staff across engineering and clinical-science departments. CMIC maintains a
£30M grant portfolio including £5M in industry contracts. CMIC spawned the Wellcome/EPSRC
Centre for Interventional and Surgical Sciences (WEISS) in 2017 via a £14M award from the
Wellcome Trust and EPSRC to translate emerging research into surgical operating rooms. WEISS
has leveraged an additional £80M grant portfolio, includes over 150 researchers, has directly initiated
21 clinical trials, and developed 3 CE approved medical devices.
VIS also leads the Centre for Inverse Problems (CIP), which has members from CS, Mathematics,
Statistics, Physics, and the London Centre for Nanotechnology amongst others. CIP is affiliated to
the CDT in Data Intensive Science (2019) and attracted new grants of around £2M.

1.E. Strategic aims and goals
Enhancing our capabilities: We will seek investment for new staff to strengthen our existing links
with medicine and life sciences. Similarly, we will seek to develop our financial computing activities,
building a new cross-faculty UCL Institute, securing the staffing of the CBT and strengthening links to
AI. We will invest in quantum computing, building bridges to the theory of computation and beyond.
Finally, we will collaborate in developing Advanced Research Computing (ARC), building world-class
computational hardware accompanied by research in large-scale computing and research-led service
delivery.
Working at scale: the department is as big as some faculties and, aside from planned investment,
Robotics at UCL EAST will add significantly to our staff numbers. This necessitates a new structure
for CS, initially as a School of Computer Science.
Ensuring coherence: Spatial fragmentation is a challenge and, consequently, we aim to house the
department together to improve links between research groups. We will develop innovation space
within the department, and a new Institute of Interdisciplinary Computation.
Developing relationships: We will deepen and broaden our relationships with industrial partners,
diversifying our income and providing new technical opportunities. We will develop labs for
partnerships with industry and with global research organisations, and we will co-develop a UCL
Computational Social Science Domain.
Embedding EDI: EDI is core to the department. We have made significant progress in respect of
gender, but we will further broaden the aspects of EDI we consider and more thoroughly embed
these into the departmental culture.




                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2. People

2.A. Staffing strategy and staff development

Excellent recruitment and retention
We have recruited 44 internationally leading scholars in the REF period, 14 of whom Early Career
Researchers (ECRs). Our excellent staff support and development, with processes that impact our
researchers at all stages from pre-PhD to emeritus professor, enabled expansion of the department
from the previous REF by 36%. Our recruitment strategy has varied according to opportunities and
circumstances. For example, we have made use of proleptic recruitments (converting fellowships into
permanent positions), where fellows have demonstrated their research leadership and excellence
within their fellowship. This route has enabled us to recruit a number of excellent women, and it has
enabled us to enact our strategy of strengthening existing groups, but in cases where we have
sought to expand our expertise or open new directions we have made more targeted open
recruitments.
The quality of our early-career recruits is evidenced by all of them having passed their probation
period. During the entire REF period only 17 academic staff (14%) have left the unit for reasons other
than retirement. Staff choose to stay and prosper.

Industrial secondments and collaborations
We support staff interchanges with industry in both directions, ensuring our research is informed by
real-world problems and used in industrial applications. A frequent mechanism are sabbaticals and
shorter periods of (paid) leave as part of UCL’s consultancy allowance. Industrial secondments
during the REF period include ARM, Adobe Research, Facebook, Google, Microsoft Research, Mo-
Sys Ltd, Nvidia, OutThink, PROWLER.io, Telefonica Research, Varjo Technologies, iProov.
Following secondments, several of our staff have transitioned to part-time employment in industry,
retaining 0.5–0.2 FTE at our department with an active embedding into our research groups.
Examples involve Adobe Research, Amazon Web Services, Ariel, ARM, DeepMind, Designability
charity, Deutsche Bundesbank, Digital Surgery Ltd., Facebook AI Research, Facebook Novi, Google,
Niantic, OneSpan, OWidgets, PhaseCraft, PROWLER.io, Synthesia Technologies.
Strategic alliances between the department and industry are an essential route by which academic
computer scientists can have real-world impact. The practical problems faced by industry working at
scale lead to new perspectives on fundamental academic problems which, when followed through in
academia, lead to new insights. These insights are not, generally, of sole interest to a particular
company and, through publication, we share our developments freely. In all cases where there is a
potential conflict of interest, we explicitly negotiate IPR agreements in partnership with the
appropriate central UCL function and the HoD actively manages potential conflicts as they arise.

Appraisal, recognition and promotion
All research and teaching staff are automatically considered for promotion each year. This ensures a
routine of valuable yearly feedback. In addition to feedback from the promotion round, all staff are
appraised at least biannually, which provides an opportunity to review all aspects of work and career,
identifying specific stretching objectives to focus work for the next period. This is also the forum
within which research quality and integrity is considered.


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Nurturing early career researchers and new starters
New recruits are assured that the development of their research careers is a top priority. This is
manifested in several ways: allocating start-up funds that can pay for equipment required and support
participation in conferences, workshops and other research meetings (budgeted at £7.5k per person
for travel/consumables for up to two years, plus any other equipment agreed, which may be
considerably higher, based on need); allocating academic mentors to advise on matters affecting
their work, from understanding local procedures to taking a strategic view of their research goals;
supporting the funding of two PhD studentships (home/EU or overseas) within their first three years;
and limiting their teaching to the equivalent of one module in their first year so that they can retain
research momentum. This is extended to two years if they are awarded an EPSRC first grant. While
EPSRC support was still capped at a level that only supports an RA for 12 months, which we view as
inadequate for initiating a significant CS project, we augmented first grants with departmental funding
to extend RA hires by a further 6 months.

We recognise the often precarious position of post-docs on short term contracts. We therefore
provide training and career development programmes for our RAs, in accordance with the Concordat
to Support the Career Development of Researchers. We0 use flexible funding from longer, larger
grants to help to retain RAs through the exigencies of specific funding mechanisms.

Sabbatical support on merit not merely accumulated service
Sabbaticals are used to achieve specific goals as outlined in a proposal submitted by the academic
concerned, possibly prompted by the outcome of an appraisal. They are allocated on merit as
assessed by a sabbatical committee that was formed to ensure objective processing. An applicant
need not wait for a pre-scheduled sabbatical. Sabbaticals awarded during the REF period included
projects linking into a new area or application domain; visiting professor roles at other universities
across the globe (Australia, Europe, New Zealand, Rwanda, Singapore, and USA [Stanford, MIT]);
developing links/pursuing commercialisation with industrial partners (ranging from large corporations
like Microsoft R&D and Google to small start-ups); writing books; refocusing research after intensive
administrative work; and personal situations that have impaired time for research. For instance, staff
extended parental leave with both paid and unpaid sabbaticals.

Teaching-only staff
CS employs staff on teaching-only contracts both because they have well-developed expertise in
pedagogy that benefits all academic staff and because their teaching (and administration) load is at
least twice that of an established academic. This both reduces the time research-active academics
spend on teaching and associated administration, which allows them to focus on more advanced
modules that draw more heavily on their research expertise and make them visible to prospective
PhD students. Teaching-only staff have permanent contracts, carry a Lecturer title and have their
own pathway to Professor.

Extensive fellowship successes
Many of our staff have been exceptionally successful in gaining awards of highly competitive
fellowships, underscoring the leading nature of our research (see Section 3). For those fellows who
are not permanent staff there is a procedure for considering them for a proleptic appointment, a
cornerstone of our Athena SWAN mechanisms. Permanent staff may still teach during the fellowship,
in exchange for a corresponding reduction once it has expired.

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.B. Research Students

Extensive funding underpinning
We aim for exceptional applicants to CS to secure funding. We define exceptional as having top
grades from a leading institution and/or prior publication in a first-tier venue. Increasingly, our
successful applicants have both. In addition to the Doctoral Training Centres (DTCs) funded by the
EPSRC (see Section 3), there are a number of funding routes available. As noted above, some are
funded completely or partially by industry, e.g., by Microsoft Research, DeepMind or Facebook AI
Research. Some of our students are funded by UCL scholarships, and our students regularly secure
Amazon, Google and JP Morgan Global Fellowships that pay fees and stipend for 2–3 years of their
studies. These fellowships also offer fellows an internship with the funding company. At the time of
writing, six of our students are active fellows. Partial funding of research students is secured via 29
IMPACT and 272 iCASE studentships sponsored by organisations like BBC, ARM and GE. We also
have departmental, fully funded studentships, which are part of the academic recruitment package
(Home/EU or Overseas).

Taught research foundations
Throughout the PhD programme, we run bespoke CS training that supplements more generic
research training courses offered by UCL, including by UCL Innovation & Enterprise, who target
many of their courses specifically to students. Our DTCs provide specific support and resources
for their own cohorts, but events and training that they provision are usually offered across the
department. Lastly, our specialist MSc and/or MRes courses also contribute to our graduate
student training: by offering our PGRs to co-supervise MSc projects, and to contribute to taught
lectures, we help them gaining the necessary experience for academic positions.

Supervision
Each student has a principal and co-supervisor. Supervisory meetings are held at least fortnightly.
Annual vivas include an external assessor; our administration team is proactive in ensuring that these
take place within the agreed timeframes. Joint supervision of students with other departments brings
together distributed research groups and furthers collaborations between CS and other groups
across Engineering, and other faculties. Our groups and centres provide formal and informal support
to supervisors, from mentoring and technical training to social activities.

Nurturing research student engagement
Students are expected to submit papers to international conferences. There is a departmental budget
to ensure that students can attend conferences and other relevant events if there is no specific travel
funding allocated to their studentship. We encourage students to attend conferences at which they
are not speakers to nurture their wider involvement in their technical and scientific communities. We
also encourage research visits, secondments, and engagement with professional bodies and
research users. Students develop their engagement and skills through a variety of group activities,
such as reading groups, research retreats, events with industry speakers and open events. For
example, VECG runs a “VR Club” monthly – a public event, advertised to audiences across UCL and
externally, where PhD students and others demonstrate our laboratories.




                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Placements and secondments
We actively encourage and support students to undertake internships with companies. The
Department’s DTCs in Foundational AI and Cybersecurity offer 3–5 months internships for PGRs,
typically in their second and third year. Beyond that, our PGRs have an excellent track record in
obtaining internships, often facilitated by their research group’s industry links. Examples over the
REF period include visits to tech and communications companies including Adobe, Amazon, CISCO,
DeepMind, Facebook, Google, Imagination, Intel, Microsoft, NICT Japan, Sony, Telefonica, Tesco,
Ultraleap and many smaller companies; healthcare industry including Roche, Unilever; financial
service institutions including Bank of England, Barclays, FCA, PRA, Visa and all major investment
banks; and governmental research ranging from BBC Research to GCHQ.

Developing leadership and research organisation skills and experience
We encourage students to become involved in organising events. For example, our students
arrange half-day departmental student conferences with talks and posters by their peers. As our
number of PGRs has expanded, we have introduced a buddy system in which second-year or third-
year students mentor first-year students. The scheme is voluntary and student-led, aiming to give
students the opportunity to share responsibility.
PGRs nominate representatives for the staff-student consultative committee to discuss
arrangements for the PhD programme. We also have a PGR on the Athena Swan Committee
representing students’ interests and organising student outreach events.

The Faculty organizes and funds two-day retreats for all first-year PGRs at Cumberland Lodge (a
residential seminar centre in Great Windsor Park). The schedule involves sessions on team building,
presentation skills using theatre techniques, engaging external audiences, and resilience and
wellbeing. Plenty of opportunity is given for students from different departments to interact and
socialize.


2.C. Equality and Diversity
Promoting and supporting women in CS research
Our departmental strategy is to continue working towards full gender balance at all levels, from
school pupils well in advance of arrival through to the most senior professors in the department.
2021 will see the department celebrate a decade of engagement with the Athena Swan programme,
led by a highly proactive committee that includes representatives of all grades of staff and students,
as well as the senior management of the department, including both its current and its previous head.
Over the past decade, our activities have developed and expanded both within the department, and
by seeking opportunities to act as a beacon to others. This has been recognised with a number of
awards: the department is very proud to have retained the Silver Award in 2020 that we gained in
2015; we were one of the first UK CS departments to achieve this distinction. At the time of writing
there are five unitary CS/Informatics departments (rather than collective faculties) with a silver award
in the UK and none with a gold. In 2016, the department was also the recipient of the inaugural
European Minerva Informatics Equality Award for “its comprehensive gender policy, the diversity of
initiatives put in place as well as the strong evidence of positive impact.” In 2020, we were the first
university to win this award twice, this time in recognition of outstanding support for the transition of
female PhD and Postdoctoral Researchers into Faculty positions. We remain the only UK recipient of
the award. At the same time, we learned that two of our staff (Profs Yvonne Rogers and Alexandra

                                                                                                 Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Silva) were to be recognised for their contributions to gender equality in the third Suffrage Science
Awards for Mathematics and Computing.
Our approach to gender diversity is comprehensive. We have structured our activities into five key
areas, each of which has an Athena Swan Champion.
    ●   ARRIVE: changing perceptions of CS in both girls and boys aged 9–18. There are many
        misperceptions of CS as a discipline that have currency in the minds of school pupils and their
        teachers and, by challenging those stereotypes, we have succeeded in breaking down barriers
        to entry into the academic pipeline.
    ●   ASPIRE: showcasing CS role models and presenting diverse career paths in CS. The lack of
        female role models and knowledge about career options in CS often means that women do not
        develop dreams and aspirations to enter and stay in CS. We inspire ambitions by upholding
        examples of successful female staff.
    ●   ACHIEVE: providing training and support to women in CS to realise their potential. A lack of
        training can be an obstacle to achieving dreams and ambitions. We provide development,
        training and support schemes specific to female students and staff.
    ●   ADVANCE: increasing pathways to advancement in academic and professional careers in CS.
        In academia, career progression is not automatic; consequently, we have introduced
        structures/processes to reduce the barriers in several ways. We actively encourage
        applications from female staff, and ensure that promotions panels consider all staff irrespective
        of whether they chose to apply. The panels have set criteria and Athena Swan representation.
    ●   AMPLIFY: We have an active programme that seeks opportunities to share best practices for
        gender equality, scaling up and broadening our outreach for national and international impact.

Each activity has a number of action goals, progress against which is regularly reviewed on the basis
both of activities that have been undertaken and examination of objective data. Coupled with UCL-
wide policies on, for example, fair recruitment, Athena Swan activities, such as encouraging
applications for fellowships and creating a Proleptic Lecturer Scheme, have led to significant increase
in female applicants for positions (12% in 2012, 28% in 2018). This change is reflected in
appointments: neither short-listing nor appointments skewed these percentages.
The Athena Swan team have further developed departmental policies on academic staff returning
from maternity or carer leave: these are now entitled to a one-term sabbatical to re-establish
research, and the department supplements this with a £10,000 post-break award to help academic
staff get back up to speed with their research. All new staff are required to undergo Unconscious Bias
training as part of their induction programme.

Disability
Professor Cathy Holloway in UCL-CS led the creation of the Global Disability Innovation (GDI) Hub,
born of the legacy of the 2012 Paralympics. This is an entirely novel cross-institutional, cross-
disciplinary, academia/CIC venture that focuses on addressing disability innovation in a global
context. The GDI Hub undertakes research related to disability; created a unique MSc education
programme on Disability, Design and Innovation; and is responsible for a programme of work in
assistive technologies that spans the globe and is supported by £20 million in DFID funding. The GDI
Hub leads the disability innovation movement and is recognisable worldwide, with links to WHO, UN,
and other major NGOs and governments across the world.
Creating the GDI Hub has been a key development for UCL-CS; it fuses together academic research,
teaching and innovation related to disability in a highly innovative way for a CS department. In

                                                                                                 Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
addition to providing the leadership of the GDI hub, the activity is embedded in departmental senior
management: the current HoD chairs the GDI Hub advisory committee, having been a member since
its inception. Consequently, we have seen an enormous increase in the number of disabled people
engaged in departmental activities (having started from a very low base), necessitating broad
consideration of issues related to accessibility and the changes that need to be made to overcome
structural inequality.

Wider EDI Considerations
The success of the Athena Swan and GDI Hub activities has led us to consider wider EDI aspects.
While CS nationally has a significant proportion of BAME students, we have relatively few black
students and, since the pipeline is crucial for academic recruitment, there are few black computer
scientists in the UK. To give a stronger voice to our black staff and students, we conducted a
listening campaign in summer 2020, an action led by Athena Swan committee members. We worked
with Google Deepmind to establish a fellowship designed to attract black talent at the postdoctoral
level. Deepmind remains strong partners in our drive to investigate and mitigate the underlying
reasons behind low black representation in CS.

There are many other EDI activities within the department. The AI Centre hosts Queer in AI events
as part of the annual LGBTQ History Month, with plans to host Women in AI events. Similarly, we
hosted a meeting on neurodiversity with Aspirations, focussing on ways of helping companies (and
the University) to value, recruit and retain autistic people.
To further embed the full breadth of EDI values in our core departmental operations and strategy, the
department conceived a new EDI committee to bring together and cross-promote good practice
amongst individual threads of activity, and to extend this to intersectional considerations. The
committee is due to be formally established in 2021, and work has begun to define its shape and
remit.

REF Selection
Our REF panel consists of the current and former HoDs, departmental manager, head of research,
strategic alliances director and the dedicated REF lead, assisted by the twelve heads of groups, with
33% female representation.
Outputs were nominated by each eligible staff member and reviewed for excellence by internal
domain experts. Reviews were returned to the individuals for refinement of justification statements.
Two thirds of these outputs then entered a second stage where, in order to mitigate bias, the
reviewers only saw the justification statements with no additional information. Second-stage
reviewers were chosen for their seniority and topical breadth. Statements were randomly assigned,
and each received three independent reviews. Our final selection was algorithmically created, based
on a combination of review scores from both stages. Subsequent sanity-checking revealed very few
instances that warranted manual intervention. Overall, this yielded an output selection that closely
reflects percentage distributions of gender and ethnicity.




                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                   Characteristic      Category           Head Count1       No. Outputs

                   Gender              Male                  78.76%            78.88%


                                       Female                21.24%            21.12%


                   Ethnicity           White                 79.65%            78.49%


                                       BAME                  11.50%            11.16%


                                       Unknown                8.85%            10.36%


                   Age                 Under 45              61.28%            58.96%


                                       45 or above           38.72%            41.04%


                   HESA                3                     89.38%            92.43%


                                       2                     10.62%             7.57%




 Other characteristics appear generally well-balanced, too: a 1.5 percentage-point overhang of
 outputs for staff who did not declare a religion, 1.2 percentage points bias towards hetero-sexual
 authors and 1 percentage point of excess outputs for non-disabled staff.
 Partitions by HESA status and, to a lesser degree, age, reveal that the more senior staff contributed
 disproportionately more outputs, arguably an effect of senior staff being more likely to have had
 further evolved research projects across the REF period.

 Similarly, our impact case studies – chosen based on formal criteria – reflect our department’s
 gender distribution (25% female; 12.5% BAME), and, owing to the long lead time from underpinning
 research to impact generated, are biased toward senior staff.
 In terms of staff eligibility, our main concern is the overrepresentation of white research associates
 amongst our twelve selected HESA 2 staff: white / BAME / unknown were represented at 75% / 17%
 / 8%, respectively, while the overall demographic of our HESA 2 staff is 49% / 25% / 26%. Selection
 was based on application of the independent researcher criteria. This means that white staff are
 disproportionately in independent positions.
 We need to better support BAME staff to promote future inclusion. Three strands of activity aim to
 redress this imbalance: identifying, attracting and recruiting BAME talent at all stages in the academic
 pipeline; nurturing individuals throughout their academic journey, building aspiration and success;
 and ensuring that there is equality of opportunity in seeking senior research and academic posts.

 Several activities are being developed in respect of each of these individual strands. Examples
 include building educational links with academic institutions in Africa and elsewhere across the global

1 We consider head counts rather than FTE to reflect that the constraints on the number of attributed outputs

are per-head, not per-FTE.


                                                                                                    Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
south, and open fellowship workshops to build aspirations run by the Athena Swan group. We are
investing in research to understand the lack of racial diversity in the pipeline, and we are seeking to
understand internal barriers through a listening campaign. In future, the department’s new EDI
committee will further our strategic redress of systematic underrepresentation.


3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
Grant proposal development support
Support for developing proposals is provided at four levels – generic, mechanism-specific, subject-
specific and proposal-specific: workshops aimed at generic training in CS grant writing, largely
addressing ECRs and those joining us from non-UK HEIs; regular tutorials and Q/A sessions on
specific mechanisms for funding (e.g., ERC, first grant, platform, programme grants, etc.); subject-
specific mentoring and review through the research groups; and regular proposal-specific reviews for
each proposal itself through our internal grant review process. This internal review process simulates
the real review process, with mock refereeing and interviews. Two dedicated members of the
professional services team provide high-level support for financial planning and detailed
administrative aspects of proposal writing. They help post-award management, freeing staff to focus
on the intellectual agenda. Our departmental finance team helps staff to manage the finances of
awarded grants, and the departmental HR manager oversees the process of recruiting research staff.
This infrastructural support has been very successful as evidenced by our funding success over the
REF period.

Income Distribution
During the reporting period, our grant income was £89.9M. The largest part (£54.4M) stems from
UKRI and government grants, followed by EU-funded activities (£17.7M). Together, the two show a
steady increase in funding, of 39% over the REF period; remaining sources, industry and charitable
donations, quadrupled during that time frame (from annually £1.1M to £4.4M).

Our income from commercial sources, as per REF4, amounts to £6 million overall, which was more
than matched by donations from charitable organisations of £6.5 million. From 2016, many of our
industry sponsors shifted to an industry donation mechanism that is not captured by REF4: rising
from £14k in 2013/14, to £4.4M in 2018/19 and £1.7M in 2019/20, this income totalled £6.8M.




                                                                                                 Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Large grants and strategic awards
We lead one EPSRC programme grant, IRIS (£6M), setting the agenda for our PPLV group, and one
EPSRC platform grant (£1.5M), underpinning CMIC’s translational research agenda.
We lead and participate in a wide range of consortium grants underlining our strongly collaborative
identity. For example, internally, we lead the healthcare engineering and imaging (HE&I) theme of the
NIHR UCLH Biomedical Research Centre (total NIHR award £110M, HE&I theme £4M). Nationally,
we co-led (with Imperial) the UK Interdisciplinary Collaborative Research Institute on Cities
(UCL, Imperial, Intel, Future Cities Catapult); the initial $5M investment from Intel was extended via
follow-on Capstone funding ($1.5M) 2015–2018. Internationally, we participate heavily in European
consortium grants leading H2020 consortia EuroPOND (total £4.1M; £1.4M to UCL), E-DADS (total
£1.4M; £0.4M to UCL; £0.7M to UCL-CS) and HUMANIS (total £1.1M; £0.7M to UCL) and
contributing to a further 23 EU consortia. We also lead the computing and AI stream of the CRUK
International Alliance on Cancer Early Detection (total CRUK award ~£30M; £5M to UCL, stream
£0.8M).

Our strategic focus on global challenges (Section 1) has led to major funding for the Global Disability
Innovation Hub (GDI Hub), a research and practice centre that drives disability innovation for a fairer
world, led academically by UCL-CS (Holloway) and linked with a Community Interest Company led
by the former head of the London 2012 Paralympics, Victoria Austin. This unique model has attracted
over £25M of research funding including a £20M initiative funded by the Department of
International Development to develop and implement life-changing assistive technologies for
people globally. The GDI Hub was a founding member of ATScale, the new Global Partnership for
Assistive Technology, together with UNICEF and the WHO, and became one of the first designated
WHO Collaboration Centres in January 2021 (after the REF period). We lead two Global
Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) projects (total £2.3M) automating malaria diagnosis and
developing low-field MRI techniques for childhood epilepsy in collaboration with University Hospital
Ibadan, Nigeria, which led to establishment of a joint Centre of Excellence between UCL and the
University of Ibadan.
                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Personal Fellowships
Within the REF period our staff received 9 EPSRC Fellowships (Alexander, Brandao, Brotherston,
Livan, Murdoch, Panagiotaki, Petke, Stoyanov, Yilmaz), 4 Royal Society University Fellowships
(Cubitt, Murdoch, Severini, Silver), 6 ERC Grants (starting: Mitra, Obrist, Silva; consolidator: Przulj;
advanced: Harman, Jones), 2 ERC Proof of Concept (follow-ups to ERCs held at UCL: Mandayam,
Mitra), 4 MRC Fellowships (Adams, Mourao-Miranda, Wijeratne, Young), 4 Alan Turing Institute
funded fellowships (De Cristofaro, Danezis, Pym, Yilmaz), 2 UKRI Future Leader Fellowships
(Oxtoby, Palombo), a Rosetrees/Stoneygate Enterprise Fellow (Stilli), a Wellcome Trust Senior
Research Fellowship (Mourao-Miranda), a Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship (Drobnjak), a Newton
Advanced Fellowships (De Cristofaro), 2 Marie Skłodowska-Curie Individual Fellowships (Mourao-
Miranda, Silva), a Royal Academy of Engineering Chair in Emerging Technologies (Stoyanov) and a
Royal Academy of Engineering Industrial Fellowship (Pym).

Consultancy
Consultancy is an important ingredient of our strategy for industry engagement. Over the REF period,
UCL-CS has delivered consultancy for a total of £2.5M, of which £991k were generated through UCL
Consultants (as captured by the data appendix), £51k through other divisions of UCL and £1.5M
through private consulting.

Doctoral Training Centres and Programmes (DTCs / DTP)
UCL-CS has had continued success in running existing and attracting new EPSRC DTCs. CS has a
leading role in the EPSRC DTCs on Financial Computing (FC) and Security Science (SECReT), and
in the now ended DTCs Virtual Environments, Imaging and Visualisation (VEIV) (EngD) and
Mathematics and Physics in the Life Sciences and Experimental Biology (CoMPLEX). FC and VEIV
are/were led by CS, while one of the two programme directors for CoMPLEX is a member of CS, and
various students were supervised or co-supervised from CS. SECReT is coordinated by the
Department of Security and Crime Science with significant input in both lecturing and supervision
from CS. During the REF period, newly acquired DTCs included the DTC on Foundational AI (lead:
Barber), Cyber Security (lead: Pym) and, succeeding CMIC’s Doctoral Training Programme (DTP)
in Medical and Biomedical Imaging, the CDT in Medical Imaging, in collaboration with the
department for medical physics, which in 2019 was renewed as the CDT in Intelligent, Integrated,
Imaging in Healthcare (i4Health; lead: Zhang). The DTC on Foundational AI is housed by the UCL
Centre for AI, also home to the related DTC on AI-Enabled Healthcare (Prof Geraint Rees, UCL
Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience), which leads to fruitful collaborations between the two centres.
Lastly, our staff specialised in quantum computing (Cubitt, Severini, Herbster) supervised students at
the CDT in Delivering Quantum Technologies (Prof John Morton, Faculty of Maths & Physical
Sciences), renewed in 2020, and we (co-)supervise students under the London Interdisciplinary
Doctoral Programme (LIDo).

Technical infrastructure
We have a dedicated 10 petabytes of online storage for big data processing (50% of UCL's entire
online storage), with access speeds of 100Gb/s, some of the fastest available, securely backed up.
The secure data centre, accredited by the Metropolitan police, which was the first in a UK University,
is being used to store UK Government classified data. In addition we have obtained accreditation to
hold NIH data. Our Heterogeneous Experimental Network (HEN) was upgraded to 100Gb/s and has
                                                                                                Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
a P4 configurable switch at its core. A departmental cluster of 10,000 cores is available for high
performance research needs. This is continually upgraded, with an average core life of 18 months.
For Machine Learning and AI, there is a GPU-based cluster with 600,000 CUDA cores. Virtual
servers are available on demand, with currently 600 of these. Central support for technical
infrastructure is complemented by a dedicated team of 10.7 FTE research technicians for CS, with an
average of 15 years technical experience. They provide tailored research support, building
enhancements for Arduinos and Raspberry Pi, designing secure IoT networks, large scale SANs and
Object Stores. Our technical support team is closely involved with central UCL planning for future
upgrades of data stores, clusters, security and network access speeds. They are also co-
investigators, or board members, for tier-2 projects such as JADE and Dirac, consultants for secure
data systems in the Alan Turing Institute, and part of the government’s Exascale project, Excalibur.
We have formal collaborations with various medical faculties that provide access to world-class
clinical facilities, including several 1.5T and 3T MRI scanners, the UK’s first PET/MRI facility
(Siemens Biograph mMR), access to two 7T MRI systems (UCL ION and KCL St Thomas’), a
research-only 3T MRI based in UCL’s Centre for Advanced Biomedical Imaging (CABI) enabling
development of novel sequences, hardware and applications, and two 9.4T small-bore animal MRI
systems (CABI and ION). We are a partner in the unique Connectom scanner in Cardiff enabling free
access for development and pilot studies, and in the CRUK RadNet project developing technology to
exploit the new proton therapy centre under development at UCLH. Through CABI and other
research centres we have access to, and a comprehensive range of, preclinical imaging systems,
including unique experimental facilities in confocal microendoscopy and photoacoustics.
Our Virtual Reality labs offer a rich selection of cutting-edge hardware in augmented reality, depth
sensors, haptics and virtual reality, including a well-maintained four-sided CAVE. We have state-of-
the-art motion tracking systems from OptiTrack, PhaseSpace and ART in our VR labs in Bloomsbury,
and a wide-area OptiTrack system in UCL HereEast, configured to track 10×15×5m, that is also
configured with photogrammetric equipment to validate measurements.


4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
4.A. Industry and external bodies
While many of our research users are in academia, others encompass business, commerce and
industry, government bodies, regulators, healthcare and the service and entertainment sectors. Many
of them have become engaged in our core research activities, both as funders and as partners. This
facilitates direct impact and provides access to resources and perspectives that further enhance our
research capabilities.

Significant industrial partnerships
During the REF period, our staff collaborated with over 250 industry partners on a regular basis,
developing strategic partnerships with some of the most influential deep tech companies operating in
the domains associated with our leading research domains. Some examples are Google DeepMind
and Facebook AI Research (in the AI domain); Adobe and Autodesk (in computer graphics and
vision); Ripple and Deutsche Bank (blockchain and distributed ledgers); Microsoft and IBM (SSE);
General Electrics and Elekta (medical imaging); Cisco, Arm and Nvidia (network systems and
hardware platforms); Amazon Web Services and Microsoft Azure (cloud computing). These
partnerships contribute significantly to the department, both with financial support and with in-kind

                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
contributions, including access to hardware and software platforms for research and significant
number of hours from their scientists and specialists devoted to working with our staff and mentoring
our students.
In parallel with the above mentioned strategic partnerships, our department is also the inventor of a
collaboration best practice in Higher Education in the UK, the Industry eXchange Network
programme (IXN), which introduced two innovations: a teaching methodology and an engagement
methodology that in the last four years have reached maturity and scale to facilitate industry projects
for close to 1,000 students, from undergraduate to master level. The IXN programme includes more
than 150 companies every year, from large corporations like Tesco and Bank of America to small,
innovative start-ups like Hazy and Vesuvio Labs.

Spin-outs and external engagement
UCL-CS staff founded 26 companies since August 2013, including Matrix Mill (acquired by Niantic),
3DRepo (with over £4.4M raised since founded in 2014), Chainspace (acquired by Facebook),
Satalia (now with >80 employees) and Synthace (now 71 employees). Our staff are on the executive
and/or scientific boards of many other companies, including Synthesia that secured Series A funding
in late 2020 (Agapito, also in REF3) and Odin Vision (originally Odin Medical) that employs advanced
computer vision in bowel cancer chirurgical procedures (Stoyanov). We have also provided
consultancy to policy makers and governmental bodies, through consulting spin-outs like Holistic AI
(Koshyiama and Kazim), closely working with the Information Commissioner’s Office and the Centre
for Data Ethics and Innovation.
Other examples of the vibrant innovation and entrepreneurship environment in CS are Bloomsbury
AI, co-founded by Riedel and Bouchard (acquired by Facebook); re:infer, co-founded by Barber and
Challis (employs 23; £3.5M VC funding); Humanloop, co-founded by Barber and Yilmaz (£3M VC
funding); PhaseCraft, founded by Cubitt (employs 13 and expanding to 20; £3.7M VC funding); KIT-
AR, co-founded by Julier and Cho (employs 10); Kokkinos is co-founder and CEO of Ariel (acquired
by Snap, Sep 2020); Stoyanov is Chief Scientist at Digital Surgery (acquired by Medtronic, Feb
2020); Alexander and Parker are co-founders and directors of Queen Square Analytics; Parker is co-
founder and CEO of Bioxydyn.
Also relevant is the students’ innovation ecosystem that CS has created through Conception X,
founded at UCL in 2018 by Treleaven. Today, the Conception X programme and its founders are at
the forefront of innovation culture, shaping higher education, preparing academia and the next
generation of PhDs for leadership roles in the economies of the future. The programme has now
expanded to support students from other universities and was invited to seek funding from UKRI. 64
start-ups have been supported in the 3 cohorts launched so far, including 39 from CS students.
A detailed and individual analysis of the impact and relevance of our CS students spin-outs is beyond
this scope. Just as an illustration, Rahko, with only 7 employees, has amongst its customers several
multinational pharmaceutical manufacturers and discovery CROs, and partners with AWS, IBM,
Nvidia and Microsoft. Rahko continues to engage with academic staff in CS and offers MSc/PhD
student internships.

4.B. Academic collaborations
For clarity, we define a collaboration to be one that led to a peer-reviewed co-authored paper and/or
a funded research project in the REF period. According to this strict and measurable definition, we


                                                                                                Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
have collaborations with more than 500 institutions, which include 37 of the top-50 universities
according to the 2020 QS World University Ranking, and 16 of the (other) top-20.
UCL-CS is building a number of strategic academic relationships, defined as relationships in which
there is a formal memorandum of understanding, the exchange of researchers and/or joint
appointments, and physical space dedicated to the activity. At present, two such relationships are
under development: the first is with Inria, France. This partnership started in 2018, with the
appointment of Benjamin Guedj as both a tenured research scientist at Inria and as Principal
Research Fellow at UCL. The initial aim was the development of a programme of activities and
exchanges centred around machine learning and AI, based in UCL’s AI Centre. Since then, the
relationship has broadened, owing to significant overlap in academic interests between the two
organisations, culminating in the formation of a larger Inria London Programme. (Due to COVID-19,
the formal launch of the programme was repeatedly delayed, to February 2021, but the collaboration
intensified already during the REF period, and despite the pandemic.)
A similar relationship is under development with Instituto Italiano Di Tecnologica (IIT), driven by
Massimiliano Pontil, who has long held appointments at both UCL and IIT. With an initial focus on
machine learning and AI, the relationship was strengthened through the appointment of Dimitrios
Kanoulas from IIT as a lecturer in robotics in UCL-CS, and there are advanced plans to establish a
formal working relationship including researcher exchanges and co-supervised PhD students, both of
which were delayed by the COVID pandemic.

Our department played an influential role in the development of the Alan Turing Institute. After our
joint application with Statistical Science was accepted, we became a founding member; Prof Pym
was part of the team of five founding partner University Liaison Directors that established the
structures, modes of operation and initial research directions of the ATI, 2016–2018. The department
has contributed a number of ATI fellows, organised events, and contributed to research programmes
as well as taking key roles within UCL in managing the relationship with the ATI.

4.C. Contribution to the discipline
Funding committees
Our staff have served on panels and strategic advisory teams for all relevant UK funders, including
AHRC, BBSRC, EMBL, EPSRC, ESRC, MRC Council, PAB, RAEng, UK, UKRI and Wellcome Trust,
and reviewed for national fellowships and scholarships. We reviewed for international funding
agencies of Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Chile, China, Czech Republic, Denmark, EU,
Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong/China, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Luxembourg, New
Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, The Netherlands and
USA.

Public Policy and Expert Advice
CS staff acted as advisors for House of Lords Science and Technology Select Committee on
Ageing: Science, Technology and Healthy Living, for the UK Cabinet Office committee on the future
of You.Gov and their digital strategy, for the House of Commons DCMS Committee, for NHS
Choices, NICE & PHE on evaluation of digital health technologies, and for the Wachter Review &
Topol Review; chaired the International Advisory Board for the Flemish Cybersecurity Initiative;
served as witness to the Joint House of Lords and Commons Committee on the Communications
Data Bill, and expert witness for the UK High Court and the US High District Court for the Northern
District of California; served on Advisory Panel at the UK Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO),
                                                                                             Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
on the Expert Advisor Group for the World Health Organization's World Report on Assistive
Technology; and last but not least, our former HoD’s appointment to Chief Scientific Adviser for
National Security to HM Government.
Notable examples include Berthouze who contributed to the All-Party Parliamentary Group on AI
Evidence Meeting, 2020; Zhou who consulted on the UK Government’s ‘Internet Safety Strategy –
green paper’; Clack has an advisory position with the Law Society’s UK Jurisdiction Task Force to
advise on distributed ledgers, cryptoassets and smart contracts; and Karp acted as an expert witness
at the UK High Court for a case concerning data synchronisation for mobile devices.

Conference leadership
We served on 916 programme committees (498 at first-tier venues), including all the first-tier
conferences in each of the research groups’ sub-areas of CS. We served on, often chaired, steering
boards of ACM CCS, ACH CHI, ACM CHI Play, ACM HotNets, ACM HotOS, ACM SIGCOMM,
COMMA, ECSQARU, EG GCH, ICAT, IEEE ESEM, IEEE ICPC, IEEE VGTC, IEEE VR, LICS, Logic
Mentoring Workshop, NDSS, NDSS, PETS, POPL, QIP and SSBSE. Our staff have also provided
programme and area chairs for 263 conferences and workshops (139 considered first tier) during
the REF period. We chaired conferences that include ACII, ACL, ACM CHI, DaLí, EGVE, EGSR,
EMNLP, IMA Inverse Problems, ISMRM Diffusion Workshop, Surgeons and Engineers: A Dialogue
on Surgical Simulation; were programme chairs for notable venues, including ACII, BMVC, EG GCH,
IEEE/CVF CVPR, IPMI; and served as area-, workshops-, tutorials- and publicity chairs for CALCO,
CVPR, CMCS, EACL, EMNLP, ICML, ISMRM and others. On the contributing side, our staff gave
more than 252 keynotes at international conferences.

Editorial boards
Collectively, our staff hold 194 editorship positions on editorial boards, for the majority of leading CS
journals, but also for cross-disciplinary journals, including Nature Scientific Reports, PLoS One
(twice), PLoS Computational Biology, Frontiers Digital Public Health, Frontiers Immunology,
NeuroImage, IEEE Transactions on Affective Computing. Our staff (co-)founded the Journals
Cybersecurity and Proceedings on Privacy Enhancing Technologies; serve as Editor-in-Chief for
Inverse Problems, Cybersecurity; as Joint Field Chief Editor for Frontiers in Blockchain; as Deputy
Editor for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine; Area Editor for Approximate Reasoning; Launch Editor
for Frontiers in VR; serve on the Management Committee of BCS/BMJ Health and Care Informatics;
and curated special issues for Approximate Reasoning, Complexity, Economic Interaction and
Coordination.

PhD examinations
We have examined 620 doctoral theses (306 overseas).

Fellowships and honours
Our staff were awarded a Fellow of ACM, Fellow of Royal Academy of Engineering, Fellow of Royal
Society (2x), Fellow of the British Computer Society (FBCS), International Society for Magnetic
Resonance in Medicine Fellowship (2x Senior, 1x Junior), Member of Academia Europaea, Allen
Distinguished Investigator, Marie Curie Career Integration Grant Fellowship, two Honorary
Doctorates, from Aalto University (Finland) and Dalhousie University (Canada), respectively, and last
but not least, Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) and UNESCO Professor of AI.

                                                                                                  Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Notable awards
ACM ISS 10-Year-Impact Award 2019, ACM Prize in Computing, ACM SIGCOMM Award, BCS
Roger Needham Award (4x), Eurographics Outstanding Technical Contributions Award,
Eurographics Young Researcher Award, Gödel Prize, IEEE Harlan Mills Award, London
Mathematical Society Whitehead Prize, MRC Suffrage and Science Award (1x + 2x after the REF
period), Outstanding Service Award from the International Federation for Information Processing
(IFIP), and many more – 47 significant awards and prizes in total.

Best paper awards
ACM FSE, ACM ISS, ACM SIGCHI (6x), ACM SIGSOFT (3x), AKBC, AMC Internet Measurement
Conference (3x), CACM, CSCW (2x), CyberSafety, DIS, EARCS, EGSR (2x), ESANN, FSE,
Humanoids, ICASSP, ICDP, ICML (2x), ICRA, ICWSM, IEEE ACII, IEEE CEC, IEEE ISBA, IEEE
SCAM (2x), IEEE/ACM Web3D, INTERACT, ISMRM, ISSTA (3x), Journal of Network Theory in
Finance Prize, MICCAI (3x), MIUA, Magnetic Resonance Medicine, Mining Software Repositories,
NDSS (2x), NeurIPS, POPL, Posture and Mobility Group (2x), SAP, SSBSE, STAST, SUM, USENIX
ATC, eCrime.

4.D. Public Engagement and Outreach
Public engagement & media
Our staff give regular interviews on the BBC and for other broadcasters internationally, including
Chinese National TV (Barber) and the Spanish World Service (Rogers), on topics such as AI, privacy
and security, and digital health. In the written media, we contributed to publications such as The
Telegraph, New Scientist, The Times, Forbes, The Register, and Wired.
Zhang received a British Science Association Media Fellowship in 2017, spending 4 weeks with the
i Newspaper as a science reporter. Capra, too, was awarded this fellowship in 2018, but her host
became unavailable at short notice; the opportunity fell through. Dr Livan gave invited lectures for a
London-based summer school on Digital Journalism for Italian highschool students in 2019, “The
research landscape on fake news”.
We participate regularly in events at museums, such as the Science Museum Lates, the Science
Museum Year of Engineering and the Wellcome Trust event, “In Pursuit of Pain” (2016), and at
festivals including the Cheltenham Science Festival, Royal Society Summer Science Festival,
Festival of Digital Health, Being Human Festival, and the Bloomsbury Festival. We regularly work
with the UCL Grant Museum on joint bioinspired robotics outreach.

Minority Groups outreach
Fernandez-Reyes has led projects in Nigeria on data science for sustainable development, childhood
and maternal health, and for development of awarenesses of data-driven strategies to management
of malaria in endemic countries. Hailes has co-directed a number of IoT workshops aimed at
students from Africa (co-funded by UNESCO/UNECA) and has run multiple outreach sessions in the
Caribbean focused around robotics and wireless sensing.
We encourage school-age internships and A-level student mentoring schemes, such as the Windsor
Fellowship mentoring programme, run jointly by Windsor Trust and Royal Society, aimed at
supporting and encouraging BME A-level students considering careers in STEM.



                                                                                                Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Parkin has led a project “Gender and IoT” that led to several workshops, training events and an
article in a practitioner magazine (“‘Internet of Things’: How Abuse is Getting Smarter”, in Safe – The
Domestic Abuse Quarterly, 2019).

Schools outreach
CS has a long history of creating and leading schools outreach programmes, both alone, with others
in the Faculty and with external partners, most notably the In2Science charity. To facilitate this, we
have built strong links with local schools (e.g., all secondary schools in Camden and some around
Stratford in East London), helping to educate children and provide CPD for teachers in our local area,
as well as opening our doors to those from other areas of the country. Naturally, we have worked
with CAS and co-led the local hub, and we are members of the Institute of Coding. As well as work in
the classroom, we have created, supported and run a number of summer schools for school children,
as well as significant events for Ada Lovelace day and the Big Bang fair for STEM. Our activities
even gained international reach – Hailes advised the UAE government on school education, on
location, and we have worked with the government of St Lucia and with Gibraltar on schools’
computing education, as well as with teachers from a variety of other countries – we hold an annual
event with teachers from Norway, for example.
To support our teaching activities, our researchers created two hardware platforms: the Engduino, as
part of the India-UK Advanced Technology Centre phase 2 award, and the MagicCube. More than
1000 Engduino devices were created and distributed in both the UK and overseas. The MagicCube
research project (Marquardt, Rogers) worked with over 9 primary and secondary schools in the state-
funded, independent, mainstream and special-education categories, across London and the South of
England to deliver IoT and programming classes to students in line with the national curriculum,
including a Science Museum Year of Engineering workshop, an EU Codeweek introductory tinkering
and programming session, Digital Celebration at Emirates Stadium, MozFest 2016 and 2017,
Grenfell Tower Kids Summer Coding Camp and a Royal Institution Masterclass on Engineers Save
Lives.
We have also led activities for nursery children such as the Nursery Science pilot project (Cubitt, with
Amanda McCrory, Lecturer in Early Years Science Education, Institute of Education) designing and
running science activities for 2–4 year-olds, and the Early-Years Science project, a full-scale 2-year
pilot project, funded by a £10,000 Royal Society public engagement grant, designing and running
science activities for 2–5 year-olds, and producing accompanying materials (worksheets, videos)
aimed at parents and teachers, made freely available online.




                                                                                                Page 27
