Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: London School of Economics and Political Science

 Unit of Assessment: 22B: International Development

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 a. Context and motivation
 Why have a department of International Development? Why so organise research and teaching
 in a university that has good departments of economics, political science, anthropology, etc? For
 the same reason universities with good departments of physics, chemistry and maths also invest
 in schools of engineering. Disciplinary departments tend to focus on questions, methods, and
 theories that are defined by the norms and boundaries of those disciplines. This gives
 disciplinary work rigour and consistency. But it also orients research inwards, more towards the
 progress of the discipline than the objects of their study. And it prioritises objects of research that
 lie clearly within those boundaries. Engineering schools, by contrast, tend to be problem-
 oriented. Objects of study are shaped more by the needs of the world – a stronger bridge, faster
 circuit, or greener energy – rather than the needs of the discipline.

 In a similar sense, LSE’s Department of International Development is a problem-oriented
 department that seeks to answer specific questions given by the world, and clearly
 contextualized in time and place, with the best theoretical and methodological tools available
 across the social sciences. We choose concepts and methods according to the question to be
 answered, and not vice versa. And we combine qualitative and quantitative methods, and draw
 on theory from across a range of disciplines, to develop new approaches capable of engaging
 effectively with the complex constraints of developing countries.

 Bridge-building offers a relevant analogy. The engineer is tasked with designing a bridge for a
 particular place and time. A disciplinary response might be, ‘Build the bridge downstream, where
 conditions are better suited to cutting-edge methods.’ To which the engineer responds, ‘The
 road segments that need connecting are not downstream. They are here. Hence we choose
 methods to suit this site.’

 This happened recently to a PhD student of ours studying the effects of Christian missionaries in
 Madagascar. Economists suggested he switch to far better Indian data. This was a good
 suggestion… for someone not too interested in Madagascar. But he, and we, were. Supported
 by his political scientist and economist supervisors, he designed an innovative Q2 methodology
 and used it to identify important effects of missionary activities (distinguishing between Catholics
 and Anglicans) on human development. His work won APSA’s Max Weber Best Paper Award,
 and was published in World Development. His name is Borge Wietzke, and he’s now an
 Assistant Professor at IBEI-Barcelona.

 His case is not unique. Numerous colleagues have made innovations of this sort, deviating from
 disciplinary norms and standards to generate insights that have influenced directions in policy
 making, and fed back to inform conceptual developments in the social sciences. Further
 examples appear below.

 b. Research strategy and areas
 Vision
 Our research focuses on the economic, social, and political issues that shape processes of
 change in developing countries, at micro, meso, and macro levels. Our analyses start from a
 recognition that the dynamics of change are different in developing countries. Rather than
 following evolutionary paths that repeat those of the developed world, countries of the ‘global
 south’ deal with a range of local and international forces that generate distinctive trajectories.
 This insight has long been foundational to the field of development studies, and our work
 continues in that tradition.



                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 What makes ID distinctive are our firm roots in the constituent disciplines of development
 studies. Most of us have disciplinary degrees, and many of us occupy prominent roles in the
 main professional organisations and working groups of those disciplines. We publish our
 research not only in leading development and area studies journals, but also in highly visible and
 selective disciplinary journals, as well as books with leading academic presses.

 Such a praxis is central to how we view our department and its strategic role in our field. For
 development studies to be vital, sustainable, and rigorous, it must:

 1. Solve real-world intellectual problems through creative syntheses of cutting-edge insights
    from our constituent disciplines;
 2. Systematise these theoretical and methodological innovations to help build the intellectual
    toolkit of development studies; and
 3. Return novel insights and methods to the disciplines through contributions that push out their
    own frontiers.

 Our research outputs feature many examples of this approach in action. A few examples of
 creative syntheses with significant disciplinary and policy impacts include:

 •   Allen and collaborators (2016, 2019) applied anthropological understandings of public
     authority to generate pioneering analyses of the Ebola crises in Sierra Leone and the
     Democratic Republic of Congo. These were taken up enthusiastically by public health
     specialists, who foregrounded their work in The Lancet and employed it to plan
     preparedness and design responses to Ebola, COVID-19, and other pandemics.

 •   Boone (2014, 2017, 2019) fused concepts from political science, geography, anthropology
     and sociology to demonstrate the existence of sub-national variation in state structure driven
     by patterns of landholding. Her ‘political topography’ model has influenced several
     generations of political science research on electoral politics, distributive politics, and state-
     building in Africa and other developing regions.

 •   Faguet (2014, 2015, 2019) integrated ideas from political science, anthropology and
     economics to explain subnational variation in local government effectiveness in a series of
     publications in development studies, economics, and political science outlets, cited 4,000+
     times. This work developed a bottom-up understanding of local governance that enriched
     top-down understandings of decentralization in both economics, which traditionally focused
     on resource distribution and elite capture, and political science, which concentrated on
     electoral competition and interest group politics. It also played a key role in establishing
     ‘large-N subnational analysis’ as a cutting-edge, rapidly growing empirical method today.

 •   Fairfield (2017, 2019, forthcoming) borrows logical Bayesianism from physics, astrophysics,
     and geology to develop a new iterative method of case comparison that builds greater rigour
     into qualitative research by mitigating conﬁrmation bias and ad-hoc hypothesizing. Born of
     the challenges of empirical fieldwork in developing contexts, her method is having a big
     impact on political science, where it was published in two leading journals, won APSA’s Sage
     methodology award, and will soon appear as a book (Cambridge). Sociologists and
     philosophers of science are currently applying Bayesian process tracing to their fields.

 •   Kar’s analysis (2017, 2018, 2020) of microfinance in India weaves together a multi-
     disciplinary understanding of financial networks and institutions. It has enriched
     anthropology, where microcredit research has tended to focus on dyadic relationships
     between borrowers and lenders, by showing how the everyday lives of poor borrowers and
     loan officers are, in fact, shaped by the larger flows and structures of global finance.

 Put another way, we view development studies as a creative space of invention that lies above
 the disciplines, and interacts critically and intensely with them. We do not conceive of the field in
 negative terms – ‘not economics, nor political science, nor anthropology…’. Rather, we believe

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in a positive-sum approach that reaches deep into the disciplines for theories and methods, and
 then returns to them transgressive, cutting-edge insights in a constructive cycle of collaboration
 and growth. The distinction may seem subtle, but for us is fundamental. We do not turn our
 backs on the disciplines. We embrace them, and we teach them.

 Strategy
 Our high-level objectives have remained much the same over the years: (i) to produce high-
 quality research per above, with (ii) abundant knowledge exchange and significant real-world
 and policy impacts outside academia. Substantial growth in staff numbers and range of research
 expertise over the past two REF cycles have created significant new opportunities, leading us to
 re-examine how best to organise our efforts to achieve these goals.

 During the current evaluation period, the department engaged in an open process of critical
 reflection on strategy, with lively participation by junior and senior colleagues alike. The terms of
 the debate were constructed to give young colleagues (predominantly female) an outsize role. A
 strategy emerged to address weaknesses and build on strengths via five key elements:

    i. Nurture the careers of junior colleagues and hire outstanding new researchers in robust,
       globally-open competitions;
   ii. Replicate our success with gender diversity (section 2b) by increasing the number of
       colleagues and students from developing-country and BAME backgrounds;
  iii. Develop major research funding for priority areas of research and policy engagement;
  iv. Increase the visibility, public engagement and impact of our research; and
   v. Disband some research clusters and re-orient others to improve their effectiveness and
       reflect the changing intellectual landscape.

 The sections that follow detail specific actions we’ve taken during this assessment period to
 improve mentoring and recruitment (2b), diversity (2b), research funding (3a), impact and
 engagement (1c), and the operation of research clusters (next heading).

 We operationalise our research strategy through departmental structures, finance and collegial
 advice.

 Structures. The key structure is ID’s Research Committee, whose overarching goal is to promote
 and celebrate research excellence in the department. It does this by overseeing mentorship of
 junior colleagues, and by promoting and financing conferences, workshops, seminar series, and
 informal reading groups to help spur individuals’ careers and our collective output. It also runs
 the ID Working Paper series, which uses ‘light-touch’ internal peer review to build a positive,
 collaborative intellectual environment. Colleagues additionally participate in cross-disciplinary
 research projects, seminars, centres and institutes, and related initiatives with departments
 across LSE, as well as other universities in London and beyond. In many of these, ID colleagues
 play leading roles. Some examples follow below.

 Finance. All colleagues receive identical, yearly research and conference grants, funded by
 LSE+ID core funds. Research Committee allocates supplementary funding to promote
 collaborations with other departments and universities, incubate multidisciplinary research
 networks, and facilitate the inclusion of colleagues in such initiatives. Research funds are
 prioritised to: (i) junior colleagues, and (ii) colleagues approaching promotion. Research funds
 have also supported the re-orientation of research clusters described below. In total, ID have
 funded 183 projects worth £389,000 since 2014.

 Collegial advice. Through both formal Career Development Reviews and informal mentoring, the
 department supports colleagues’ research trajectories, advising on everything from framing and
 outlets for a particular piece of research, to substantive issues of theory and method, to funding
 and staffing of research teams. We broadly guide colleagues to publish high-quality research in
 interdisciplinary journals, and also the most visible disciplinary journals relevant to their work.
 Retaining one foot in development studies and another in, e.g., economics or anthropology helps

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ensure empirical rigour and theoretical relevance. It enables colleagues to continually test their
 work against two often different sets of standards. And it gives them access to the large
 audiences that the social science disciplines command.

 Areas of research
 As a medium-size department compared to others in this UOA, we do not attempt to provide
 comprehensive coverage of all developing regions or themes. Instead, we concentrate on
 regions and topics that we consider critically important, and in which we have compelling
 strengths.

 We have never chosen to divide the department into formal research groups with separate
 teaching arrangements, research programmes, or PhD supervision. Over time, more informal,
 fluid research clusters have emerged naturally, in some cases around problem-oriented
 agendas, and in other cases around methods and themes. Many individuals’ work falls into two
 or more, allowing ~30 researchers to sustain 7 vibrant clusters, 2 centres, and a cross-
 departmental initiative. This strategy facilitates the collaboration and cross-fertilisation crucial to
 our interdisciplinary field.

 Since 2014, one cluster has been abandoned, one significantly strengthened with the arrival of
 new researchers, and two new clusters formed. Two became institutionalised when major
 funding was secured. The rest have evolved organically. In the main, clusters operate informally,
 as groups of like-minded scholars who work on overlapping topics and occasionally co-author.
 Our experience is that both informal clusters and funded, formal units have proved highly
 productive, and so the department does not promote one over the other.

 Informal Clusters
 Comparative Political Economy of Development (CPED)
 CPED is one of the larger research areas, examining phenomena within and across countries, at
 the intersection of political science and economics, with colleagues usually rooted in one or the
 other. Some of this research is primarily quantitative, other work is primarily qualitative, and
 much features fully blended methodologies. CPED colleagues organize the bi-weekly Land
 Politics and Development seminar jointly with UCL, the Comparative Politics/Comparative
 Political Economy seminar (joint with LSE Government, International Relations, and the
 European Institute), and the international Working Group on African Political Economy. A few
 examples of current research are: property rights, land tenure and territorial politics in Africa;
 instrumental incoherence in institutional reform; the politics of intellectual property; long-run
 effects of institutions and inequality on development in Colombia; and urbanisation and ethnicity
 in Africa.

 Inclusive Economies (IE)
 This revamped group, strengthened with the arrival of two new colleagues, seeks to deepen
 analytical understanding of the recent inclusive turn in development policy. IE run a joint
 biweekly seminar with Anthropology focusing on inclusivity in markets, finance, social protection,
 and ICT engagement with the ‘Bottom of the Pyramid’. Some examples of current research are:
 the financialization of social protection in India; taxation and the informal economy; trajectories of
 hybrid governance in Africa; and the role of ICTs in employment and healthcare in India.

 Development Economics (DE)
 DE has flourished during the last decade, growing from one to four colleagues. Research
 employs large, sometimes bespoke databases and state-of-the-art quantitative methods, as well
 as experimental and quasi-experimental methods, to investigate issues of applied micro and
 macroeconomics, and economic policy. Current research topics include: infrastructure and
 growth; the dynamics of private sector development in LDCs; economic costs of bureaucratic
 corruption; state-building in DR Congo; colonisation and long-run development in Latin America;
 welfare programmes and labour markets in middle-income countries; and VAT efficiency in
 developing countries.


                                                                                                   Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Environment and Development (ED)
 This is a new cluster that achieved critical mass with the arrival of a colleague in 2016. ED
 research is both qualitative and quantitative, focusing on diverse issues ranging from global
 environmental governance and the discourse of contested debates, to national environmental
 movements and policy-making, to the microeconomics of deforestation. Current research topics
 include: landscape approaches to environmental governance; livelihood transitions, risk and
 environmental resilience in Myanmar and Nepal; the role of BASIC countries (Brazil, China,
 India, South Africa) in climate negotiations; and adoption of wind and solar power in Brazil and
 South Africa.

 Health and Development (HD)
 Health and development is a priority area in which the department and School are making large,
 long-term investments. It is also a transformed group, greatly strengthened by the arrival of five
 new colleagues between 2014 and 2020. HD research is enthusiastically multidisciplinary,
 integrating anthropology, demography, and political science, and typically employing a blend of
 quantitative and qualitative methods. Current research topics include: health care finance and
 universal health coverage; COVID-19 and abortion; HIV/AIDS; adolescent access to
 contraception and safe abortion in sub-Saharan Africa; female genital mutilation; migrant and
 refugee health; population and food supply; and pharmaceutical markets in developing
 countries.

 ICTs and Development (ICTD)
 ICTD is another new cluster in which ID is investing, with one new faculty member and
 significant research funding. Its research analyses the extraordinary penetration of computers
 and mobile devices across developing (and developed) societies, focusing on agriculture,
 industry, business services, healthcare, and education. Recent advances in digital payment
 systems, mobile platforms and biometric identifiers have opened up important new research
 avenues into the political economy of big data, as well as the digitisation of social welfare
 schemes and public policy platforms. Current research projects include: ICTs and governance
 reform; ICTs and primary healthcare; and the increasing integration of ICTs in global economic
 infrastructures and business processes.

 International Political Economy of Development (IPED)
 IPED research applies classical insights from international political economy to the systemic
 analysis of cross-national institutions and international development. It reminds us that all the
 issues studied in development occur in the context of – and are often shaped by – broader
 global interactions. Current topics of research include: the politics of multilateral institutions;
 dynamics of North-South trade agreements; global and regional politics of intellectual property;
 patterns of international inequality; South-South development finance; and international
 constraints on national development strategies.

 Formal Research Units
 ID staff have also used major funding to create formal, institutionalised research units. The Firoz
 Lalji Centre for Africa (FLCA) is a large and growing centre at LSE that promotes independent
 academic research and teaching, open and issue-oriented debate, and evidence-based policy-
 making on Africa. It integrates numerous research grants with teaching, outreach and
 engagement, and events and communications activities to connect Africa-focused social
 scientists across both LSE and Europe. FLCA works in partnership with Africa-based scholars
 and institutions to connect LSE to Africa and bring African voices to global debates.

 The most important research programme within FLCA is the ESRC-funded Centre for Public
 Authority and International Development (CPAID). Its research focuses on how societies are
 governed in impoverished and unstable places in Africa. Its main goals are to promote new ways
 of thinking about public authority, to investigate how governance and public service provision in
 fragile contexts actually function on the ground, and to help translate such findings into more
 effective policy responses. Taking the perspective of the everyday lived realities of ordinary
 people, CPAID seeks to move away from the assumption that only Western-style formal state

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 institutions can provide the structures necessary for thriving economic and social life. The
 director of both FLCA and CPAID is an ID colleague and former HOD (Allen), and research staff
 working there are affiliated to ID.

 ID is also a founding member of the Global Health Initiative, an interdepartmental unit
 established to increase the coherence and visibility of Global Health research across LSE. GHI
 supports interdisciplinary engagement and promotes the application of LSE-style rigorous social
 science research to emerging global health challenges. Two ID colleagues sit on GHI’s steering
 committee.

 ID colleagues are leading members of institutes and centres throughout LSE, including nearly all
 the LSE regional centres (Africa, South Asia, etc.) and thematic units (Centre for the Study of
 Human Rights, Grantham Institute, International Growth Centre, etc), as well as many research
 centres, institutes and networks beyond LSE.

 c. Knowledge exchange and impact
 Strategy
 The department’s knowledge exchange and impact strategy works to enhance the engagement
 of colleagues and their research with public, private, and non-governmental actors in the
 developing and developed worlds. The nature of the knowledge that ID generates implies a wide
 variety, from policy engagements with multilateral agencies like the World Bank and UN
 organisations, featuring bird’s-eye views and potentially sweeping implications, to ground-level
 engagements focusing on perceptions of authority and justice, in which individual citizens’ voices
 are privileged and magnified.

 We seek to support all of these via three elements: (a) funding for impact, (b) collegial support
 for networking/influencing decision-makers, and (c) direct dissemination. More impact is
 expected as colleagues’ research outputs and experience increase, and they rise in seniority.
 These points are reinforced in formal and informal mentoring. In all of these ways, ID aim to be
 at the forefront of the School’s efforts to be ‘the world-leading social science institution with the
 greatest global impact’ by 2030.

 ID’s strategy to magnify knowledge exchange and impact is a refined, boosted version of our
 strategy during the previous evaluation period. It’s overseen by the department’s Deputy Head
 for Research, and implemented by Research Committee. Item (a) is supported by the
 department’s research budget, as well as School-level Knowledge Exchange and Impact funds.
 This has been boosted by increases in LSE funding as well as greater research reflows from our
 increasing success in generating grant revenue, compared to 2014. Item (b) is activated via
 research clusters, various internal and external seminars (co-)hosted by the department, and the
 informal reading groups mentioned above. The re-organisation of clusters, new research
 seminars initiated, and the introduction of reading groups have all served to boost collegial
 support for engagement and influence since 2014.

 But the biggest change to our impact strategy has been the significant increase in direct
 dissemination (c). Simplifying slightly, during the 1990s and 2000s our departmental strategy for
 media dissemination relied on academic publications being noticed by the wider world,
 supplemented by print and broadcast interviews, and occasional op-eds. Beginning in 2013, the
 department launched a series of initiatives to revamp our website, revamp our dormant Working
 Paper series, build an ‘International Development @LSE’ blog (text, audio and video), and join
 these to a hugely expanded social media presence. The effect has been transformative. We now
 disseminate our research directly to the broader world, targeting audiences carefully,
 representing our research findings as we think best, and celebrating colleagues’ publications.
 The link with social media multiplies our efforts through thriving networks of public officials,
 private entrepreneurs, academics, activists, and volunteers across all the world’s developing
 regions. Many are ID graduates, and a surprising number are gifted communicators and ‘digital
 influencers’.


                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Knowledge exchange
 Through both individual members and the groups described above, the department has a dense
 web of formal and informal knowledge exchanges with a wide range of organizations, ranging
 from tiny NGOs working in African and Asian villages, to the World Bank, DFID, and other
 multilateral and bilateral agencies. Of special note are rapidly growing (from a small base)
 interactions with social enterprises/businesses.

 Some of these are well-anchored institutionally. For example, Green is our resident ID Professor
 in Practice, and also Senior Strategic Advisor to Oxfam. Another example are the many
 agencies and organizations that participate every year in our applied consultancy project student
 exercises. Other examples include colleagues’ formal appointments to advisory boards, as well
 as consulting relationships, informal advising and other contacts.

 One example of knowledge exchange based on research expertise is Faguet, who chairs the
 Decentralization Task Force, a team of prominent economists, political scientists, and retired
 cabinet-level policymakers, who work to enhance the quality of policy dialogue on issues of
 decentralization and federalism, at Columbia University’s Initiative for Policy Dialogue. IPD’s
 goal is to help developing countries explore policy alternatives, and enable wider civic
 participation in public decision-making. The task force has sponsored high-level policy
 discussions of decentralization in countries as far afield as Bangladesh, China, Colombia,
 Ethiopia, India, Pakistan and South Africa.

 Where direct dissemination is concerned, our strategy appears to be working. The ID website
 has 1,350 unique page views per day, and is updated daily. Our blog posts 2-3 new
 articles/week and receives 300-400 unique page views/day. Our sister Africa@LSE blog,
 launched in mid-2017, has already recorded over one million views. Our bi-monthly research
 newsletter has over 1,000 regular subscribers, with a 45% open rate and a 9% click-forward
 rate. ID’s Facebook account has 12,200 followers and posts on average 3 times/week. And our
 Twitter feed has 10,500 followers and on average tweets 5 times/day. All of this flows from key
 departmental investments since 2014, including a dedicated Communications Manager/Editor
 and a Communications/Events Officer, without whom these initiatives could not have snowballed
 as they did.

 Impact
 Our view is that ID’s impacts have significantly increased since 2014. The three ICSs submitted
 are good evidence of how our strategy can help cutting-edge research generate large, sustained
 impacts. But that spring runs much deeper; consider two ICSs we did not submit:

 Faguet’s research on decentralization in Bolivia was supported by departmental funds, and
 improved through multiple presentations in departmental and allied research seminars, as well
 as informal advice from the CPED and DE clusters. His research findings were key to convincing
 the Bolivian government not to re-centralise the country, but instead deepen decentralization by
 greatly increasing the revenues and authorities of subnational governments, democratising
 regional governments, and creating a fourth level of subnational government, as well as new
 types of indigenous and ethnic autonomy. This research, and the awards it has won, have been
 widely disseminated through all of ID’s channels.

 Likewise, Shadlen et al.’s research on intellectual property in the pharmaceutical industry was
 supported by departmental and LSE grants before winning a major ESRC award. The authors
 benefitted from multiple presentations, as well as support from the CPED and HD clusters. The
 use of secondary patents to block competition from generics has been amply studied in
 developed countries, where it raises the cost of medicines. But no one had previously examined
 these issues in developing countries. Shadlen and co-authors showed why the litigious
 American approach to combating secondary patent abuse is less appropriate in resource-
 constrained settings. Their work was the first to empirically assess how an alternative “pre-
 emptive” approach works in developing countries. They’ve since presented their work widely,
 including high-level events with industry officials, legislators, and policymakers in Argentina,

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Brazil and India. In Argentina, their advice was key to preventing a proposed switch to a US-
 style system, in place of a home-grown regime that’s more appropriate for local conditions and
 capacities.

 d. REF outputs selection
 Our overriding criterion in selecting outputs has been research quality. Because we’re majority-
 female and junior colleagues are highly productive, portfolio balance in terms of gender and
 age/rank took care of itself. Junior colleagues (at the time of publication) represent 43% of REF
 outputs submitted, and female colleagues account for 63%. Beyond that, we have made a few
 decisions at the margins, amongst outputs judged of similar quality, on the basis of further EDI
 considerations, and to ensure the portfolio fairly represents our thematic, regional, and
 disciplinary/methodological range.

 e. Open research and open data
 ID has engaged with the Library to ensure research outputs are open access where possible.
 Over the current REF period the number of full-text open-access publications in LSE Research
 Online increased 15%. Our working paper series also makes pre-published research freely
 available. Green’s book, “How Change Happens” (Oxford University Press) is open-access.

 We’re fully committed to the principles of open data and members regularly deposit data
 in recognised repositories. For example, Shadlen deposited with the UK Data Archive,
 Shami has deposited replicability data with Harvard Dataverse, and Faguet posts all his data on
 GovernanceFromBelow.net. Members have also engaged seriously with the Library around
 questions of data management.

 f. Research integrity
 ID is committed to ethical conduct in line with field-relevant ethical research codes and Equality,
 Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) principles and practices set out in REF5a. Colleagues planning
 research must complete an ethics form which is then submitted to LSE’s Research Ethics
 Committee when staff cannot self-certify that their research meets standard guidelines, such as
 around informed consent and anonymisation. Research Committee, PhD supervisors, and the
 Research Manager work to ensure that research and impact-related practices achieve the
 highest ethical standards.

 2. People

 a. Introduction and context
 ID consists of 30 faculty, 17 of whom are women. Twenty-six have full appointments, 3 have
 joint appointments with other departments, and 1 other has a fractional appointment. We also
 employ LSE Fellows on full or fractional contracts, and occasionally guest teachers too. We also
 have 22 research staff, including research officers, research fellows, and Assistant and
 Associate Professorial Research Fellows, funded through grants from DFID and the ESRC.
 They are affiliated to ID through FLCA and CPAID, or indirectly through other LSE centres. Our
 seven members of professional services staff include 6 full-time and 1 with a fractional
 appointment.

 Recent years have seen healthy promotion success amongst junior colleagues. Since REF2014,
 14 faculty and research staff have passed major review and/or been promoted. As a result, the
 department now has a rich pool from which to choose future heads and deputy heads, as well as
 share out other important departmental and university-level roles.

 It’s also notable that ID has retained all core departmental staff during this assessment period.
 Fixed-term Fellows and research staff have moved on regularly, as we actively help them to do.
 But permanent staff hired since 2014 have come to the department, found a productive
 environment conducive to building satisfying careers, and – despite attractive outside offers –
 chosen to stay. This is at least in part because the department puts great emphasis on
 developing young talent, especially women.

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 b. Faculty development
 Mentoring and training
 All ID staff below professorial level are mentored by a Professor in the department. Mentors
 must meet their mentees at least once a year, and typically do so more often informally to
 provide support for ongoing research and career advice. Often this includes KEI issues, where
 the counsel of experience can be particularly useful. We have the privilege of working in a
 friendly, relaxed environment where spontaneous mentoring is the rule, not the exception.

 The effectiveness of informal mentoring becomes evident during formal reviews. Yearly Career
 Development Reviews (CDRs) are conducted by a Professor other than a colleague’s mentor.
 These are official HR processes, with written records of discussions structured to cover: recent
 publications, ongoing and future research, teaching results, collegiality, funding applications, and
 prospects for promotion. That said, we try hard to make CDRs friendly and constructive, in the
 spirit of helping colleagues reach their goals. Special attention is given to pre-major review
 colleagues. Through LSE’s Annual Performance Review, Professors can also obtain feedback
 and support from a dedicated committee.

 Colleagues also take advantage of the diverse opportunities for professional training. LSE has
 invested hugely in this area over the past 20 years. Colleagues can take free or subsidised
 training courses in everything from modern languages to quantitative methods, new software
 packages to public speaking, or interacting effectively with policymakers and the media. Courses
 last anywhere from 45 minutes to a year. Since 2016, 31 ID colleagues (including non-academic
 staff) have taken 73 such courses.

 We take special pride in the successful mentoring and career development of post-doctoral
 researchers and of LSE Fellows – three year teaching positions in support of our larger courses.
 Since 2015, we’ve gone well beyond the LSE norm, assigning mentors, conducting CDRs,
 providing research funds, and otherwise treating Fellows and postdocs similarly to permanent
 staff. We choose them carefully, nurture them while they’re with us, launch them into academic
 roles elsewhere, and then bask in the glow of their success. Former postdocs and Fellows are
 now at Bristol, Cambridge, City, Durham, Edinburgh, Loughborough, LSHTM, Manchester,
 Oxford, Sheffield, SOAS, Sussex, and UCL.

 Recruitment
 Recruitment ordinarily begins with a collective discussion of search objectives in terms of the
 always-changing research frontiers of development studies, and where we as a department
 stand in relation to them. All staff are invited to participate in long-listing and short-listing; we
 prioritise inclusion, and welcome staff participation in the process at different points. We’re
 conscious of EDI objectives in making these decisions, particularly in moving from longlist to
 shortlist. We follow LSE guidelines and coordinate with HR to receive relevant data.

 For candidate visits, we designate hosts and work hard to get to know candidates as colleagues
 and intellectuals, not just as seminar presenters, and also to make them feel welcome and
 wanted. We regard this as essential to recruitment in a highly competitive environment. It’s a
 high-effort approach, but it has paid off in significant ways. For example, in a recent search for a
 political economist, our first-choice candidate chose our Assistant Professorship, despite having
 several higher-paying Senior Lecturer offers.

 ID supports and fully implements LSE’s research/sabbatical leave policy at all levels of seniority.
 Preference is given to junior colleagues and colleagues nearing major review or promotion. The
 department acknowledges the desire of colleagues to take research leave, and makes
 provisions to allow for flexibility in teaching and administrative duties. We also fully implement
 the School’s parental leave policy regardless of seniority. Our very low ‘leave overhang’ shows
 that this approach is working. The department has readily agreed to all requests for parental
 leave during this assessment period, and as of end-2020 only 1 colleague had accumulated
 more than 1 year of sabbatical ‘credit’ (by choice).

                                                                                                    Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Equity, Diversity and Inclusion
 The department subscribes to LSE’s EDI objectives and guidance, and is a School leader on
 EDI. We have worked hard over the years to institutionalise EDI objectives in our hiring
 practices. Specifically, we:

 1. Provide unconscious bias training to all members of staff.
 2. Explicitly acknowledge the potential for bias to affect decisions.
 3. Judge how job applicants will cope at LSE in terms of appropriate levels of resources,
    reasonable teaching loads, high-quality mentoring, inspiring peers, etc.
 4. Require chairs to document all steps taken to ensure open, unbiased searches.
 5. Require accountability of colleagues, who must be prepared to explain every step of a hiring
    or assessment process.

 Over the past two evaluation periods the results have been positive. Women have increased
 from 14% of core faculty in 2007, to 37% in 2014, to 57% today. Eight of our last 12 faculty
 appointments have been women. How was this achieved? Not by reserving positions for women,
 but by improving our searches. Two procedural innovations that drove change are: (i)
 nominating a triumvirate of junior colleagues to lead candidate selection onto long and short
 lists; and (ii) ensuring that long lists are balanced in terms of gender. From there, searches
 proceed on the basis of merit alone. But changing the pool of candidates on which colleagues
 focus was sufficient to break whatever unconscious bias may have suppressed top-quality
 female candidates in the past. With respect to other aspects of hiring, we have followed ID and
 LSE EDI guidelines and, on every occasion, chosen the best candidates we could find. We have
 also worked to rectify salary differentials between male and female colleagues, which are more
 equal now than ever before. And we have put in place reporting procedures, mentoring
 arrangements, and budget allowances to support colleagues facing special circumstances or
 unexpected personal or family issues.

 Our position on BAME is less impressive but clearly improving. Nine of 30 colleagues are
 developing-country nationals, and 2 more are children of developing-country immigrants fluent in
 their home languages. Asians and Eastern Europeans are well represented. More importantly,
 the direction of travel is strongly positive. Of 9 colleagues recruited since 2014, 4 are
 developing-country nationals and BAME (3 Asian, 1 Latin American). But we have also suffered
 important setbacks. Prof Thandika Mkandawire, our inaugural Chair in African Development and
 a major international figure, passed away in March 2020. This last, sad fact underlines our
 lacuna, which is Africa.

 We’re keenly aware of this problem and determined to rebalance the department over the
 coming decade. Our plan is twofold: (i) to use methods similar to those described above, but
 adapted to these aspects of diversity, expanding our recruitment pool and bringing more
 outstanding young LDC and BAME candidates to the fore in our searches; and (ii) to work with
 donors to develop one or more dedicated chairs, including ideally an endowed assistant
 professorship for outstanding African researchers.

 With respect to students, ID lead the School in recruiting from diverse regions of the world. In a
 strikingly international university, we are the most international department, with 63 countries
 represented amongst our 300+ MSc students, and more than 15 countries amongst 27 PhD
 students. In a typical year, overseas students comprise over 80% of our MSc intake. That said,
 we are committed to increasing further the number of students from Africa.

 Promotion
 Promotion is an LSE-wide function, mainly based on research excellence. New colleagues are
 recruited primarily for their research potential, and promoted when that potential is realized.
 Decisions to nominate colleagues for promotion are taken by the ID Professors, following advice
 from a reading sub-group (4-6 Professors) convened for each case. Although expensive, this
 procedure ensures that promotion decisions are well-informed, and provides junior colleagues

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 detailed research feedback and career advice. It’s part of our commitment to a thriving, collegial
 research environmental. Colleagues in difficulties are actively supported through mentoring,
 additional research feedback (e.g. specialist reading groups), and tailored research grants. Final
 decisions to support a promotion are based exclusively on the strength of that case; there is no
 pressure to ‘wait your turn’.

 PhD Programme
 The recruitment, training and professional mentoring of PhD students is one of the department’s
 core priorities. Young researchers play a central role in our intellectual life as peers, co-authors,
 critics, and teachers. Our success in shaping young talent can be judged by our results. We
 have graduated 42 new PhDs since 2014, and are proud of our record in helping to launch
 promising academic careers at some of the world’s most prestigious universities, and
 policy/practitioner careers with, e.g., government and multilateral agencies, NGOs, and as
 specialist consultants.

 The department attracts an excellent calibre of PhD student. Of our current batch of 27, eight
 earned their master’s degrees at LSE, 4 from Cambridge, 3 from Columbia, and 1 each from
 Oxford, Harvard, and the New School for Social Research. Their qualifications at arrival were
 excellent, all at Distinction or high Merit-equivalent level. Six of our new students in 2019-20 are
 funded by ESRC and LSE scholarships, and the remaining four are self-funded.

 Our PhD programme underwent a major structural change since REF2014, from the traditional
 MPhil/PhD to a more rigorous and demanding MRes/PhD structure. The main elements of the
 change include: (i) additional required coursework, both thematic and methodological; (ii) more
 intense pre-fieldwork preparation via a PhD research seminar course; (iii) oversight and buy-in
 from Research Committee, of which the Doctoral Programme Director is now a member; and
 (iv) multiple supervision by senior colleagues with complementary expertise that matches a
 student’s research needs. Examples of this last are thematic vs. methodological expertise, or
 complementary disciplines for a dissertation operating at their crux. While an ID student’s first
 supervisor should be in-house, often the second is from another LSE department, or
 occasionally another university. One final element of preparation we provide is, (v) greater
 support for career development, including opportunities to present at seminars and conferences,
 significant help with dissertation publication, and a more supportive and intense job-market
 placement scheme.

 This transition is now consolidated, and is showing results. Since 2014 our students’ research
 has been published in outlets such as the American Ethnologist, American Political Science
 Review, Governance, Journal of Development Economics, Journal of Politics, Development and
 Change, Lancet, Nature, Population and Development Review, Review of International Political
 Economy, and World Development, and monographs with Cambridge and Oxford University
 Presses. It has also been named winner or runner-up for prizes such as the ESRC Future
 Leader award, African Politics Conference Group’s Ralphe Bunche Award, African Studies
 Association Herskovits Book Prize, and ESRC Writing Competition.

 PhD completion rates, mixed in the past, are now excellent. Of the 21 students who entered
 since 2010, 20 completed on time or with short extensions due to extraordinary circumstances,
 and 1 transferred to another department. In 2019, all students upgraded to full PhD status within
 regulations, at their first attempt. Over the 2017-19 period, all students due to submit did so on
 time and passed their vivas with minor or no corrections. (In 2020, Covid created significant
 difficulties for several students. The department has been flexible and generous with them; we
 hope any ill-effects are short-lived.)

 Historically, a number of factors made completion of an ID PhD difficult in four years. Three of
 the most important are: (i) Many students need additional training to do inter-disciplinary
 research; (ii) Nearly all students undertake considerable overseas fieldwork; (iii) Many need
 language training. Since REF 2014, we have put a number of measures in place to overcome
 these obstacles. One of the most important is more funding for fieldwork, which has relieved

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students of having to interrupt their research to self-finance. Also, and against the LSE norm, we
 exempt students from teaching, research assistance, or other obligatory work as part of their
 financial awards. This leaves them more time and freedom to focus on training, fieldwork and
 writing. Students are still free to apply for part-time teaching and research roles on a paid basis,
 and many do. Between 2015-19, our four-year completion rate climbed from 70% to 100%.

 PhD student welfare is supported by a structure the department put in place during the current
 evaluation period. This is led by the Doctoral Programme Director, and includes the PhD
 Manager, both Teaching and Research Committees, and the department’s Head and Deputy
 Head for Research, in a general framework of rules and resources governed by LSE’s PhD
 Academy. This structure has proved itself both responsive to students’ needs and robust to
 unexpected shocks. For example, during the extraordinary (health and family) circumstances
 referenced above, appropriate amendments to deadlines, resources and pastoral and
 intellectual support were made, in close consultation with affected students, which gave them
 the time and mental space to overcome their difficulties and successfully resume their research.

 A priority for coming years is to develop new PhD scholarships, enabling us to expand our
 programme to a steady ~10 students per year. LSE has increased total PhD scholarships; our
 guaranteed share is 3, with the possibility of more in any given year. But more needs to be done.
 The previous and current HODs have been working with LSE to secure scholarship funding, and
 other colleagues are doing likewise for specific regions.

 Lastly, our placement record is strong. When our PhD programme began in the 1990s, most
 graduates went on to multilaterals, developing-country governments, NGOs and aid agencies as
 their first choice. Very few chose academia. More recently, the proportion of PhD graduates
 securing tenure-track posts has increased markedly. Examples include American University,
 Bristol, Cambridge, East Anglia, IBEI-Barcelona, ISS-the Hague, King’s College London, Leeds,
 LSE, National University of Colombia, National University of Singapore, Northwestern, Open
 University, Oxford, Queen Mary, Sheffield, SOAS, Trinity College Dublin, Royal Holloway, the U.
 de los Andes (Colombia), and the U. of Sao Paolo. Graduating PhDs have also obtained
 research positions at the likes of ETH-Zurich, Harvard, LSHTM, and Oxford.

 We support both types of destinations. Our PhD graduates always will – and should – include a
 healthy cohort in applied jobs. Improving the quality of development policy and practice through
 our PhD graduates are two important ways we contribute to the world. But a large cohort of
 rising academics trained by us is a sure sign of a vibrant research environment, and a network of
 thinkers through which our intellectual influence can only grow.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 a. Grants and Gifts
 Since REF2014, 28 colleagues in the department were awarded 103 research grants, 73 of
 them externally funded. These include both major and minor research grants, funded by a
 diverse set of agencies, public bodies, and private firms. Some of the most prominent include:
 AXA S.A., Carnegie Corporation, DFID, ERC, ESRC, European Commission, Ford Foundation,
 FCO, Innovate UK, Newton Fund, Wellcome Trust, World Bank, and Zenith Bank. During this
 period, colleagues submitted bids worth more than £46 million, and were awarded £17.5 million.
 Grants quadrupled in value, from a total of £3.6 million during the first half of the assessment
 period, to £13.9 million during the second half.

 These totals do not include philanthropic donations from the Lalji Family Foundation, which in
 2016 established an endowment to create the Africa Centre at LSE (FLCA) with a gift of £10
 million to support continued institutional engagement with the African continent. This gift is the
 largest ever received by the School from an alumnus, and – together with the previous ID
 Programme for African Leadership – takes the Lalji Family’s donations to £13 million. Other
 donors have contributed an additional £400,000 to help fund specific Africa-centred activities at
 FLCA.

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The department has also been highly successful with internal LSE funding applications. Since
 2014, colleagues have won 30 awards from the International Inequalities Institute, Annual Fund,
 KEI fund, STICERD, and others, for a total of £440,000. This includes initiatives, like Allen’s,
 Sequeira’s (both REF3) and Shadlen’s (above) that subsequently achieved significant
 knowledge exchange and impact. LSE additionally committed £100,000 in scholarship funds for
 African students in our various MSc programmes.

 These grants and donations sum to £31.5 million over the past 7 years.

 Extraordinarily, that is not all. The Lalji Family Foundation and other potential donors
 approached the School in 2019 about funding a new research and teaching building, which
 FLCA would then occupy. Discussions are ongoing; this single donation will likely exceed
 everything reported above.

 b. Operating Income
 Other operating income comes from teaching, and has increased consistently year after year
 since our founding thirty years ago. Since 2014, teaching income has increased by 3-4% per
 year, and currently stands at £7,040,000. Deducting direct staff and non-staff costs leaves a
 yearly surplus of £2.2 million, which we return to the School.

 c. Infrastructure and Facilities
 LSE’s REF5a details the School’s significant investment in, and upgrading of, infrastructure and
 facilities since REF2014. Enormous progress has been made in terms of new buildings,
 improved systems (e.g. computers, the internal network, the LSE website, and central blog
 platform), and services offered by the BLPES library, the PhD Academy, and LSE Life.

 The ID department has benefited from these improvements in a number of ways. Most visibly,
 we have expanded from 2.5 to 3.5 floors of LSE’s central Connaught House building, in the
 process gaining eight additional offices, a new seminar room, a new kitchen and faculty lounge,
 and a new, large shared research space. These new arrangements represent a significant
 improvement, allowing us to gather research colleagues previously scattered across LSE into
 one shared departmental site, and also upgrade the work spaces of part-time and guest faculty.
 We’ve also benefited greatly from the School’s central blog platform, which hosts ‘ID@LSE’ and
 helped us design, fund and launch this important knowledge exchange tool.

 In addition to our share of LSE’s investment in improved information systems, the department
 has acquired specialist computer equipment with advanced, secure data handling and graphics
 capabilities required by some colleagues to process, for example, an immense Brazilian
 database of individual VAT transactions, or field experiments on state building in the Congo.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 ID colleagues participate in a substantial number of significant partnerships, both formal and
 informal. The following lists some of the most important ones in terms of visibility and grant
 support.

 LSE-Stanford-Uniandes Conference Series on Long-Run Development in Latin America
 and Beyond, 2017-present. This is a multi-disciplinary conference series probing the
 institutional, political, and economic drivers of long-run development in Latin America and –
 increasingly – the rest of the developing world. Political economy research is approaching a
 major breakthrough, based on deep collaborations between historians, political scientists,
 economists and natural scientists further afield. The research presented features new empirical
 approaches, exploiting novel datasets, subnational variation, and mixed methods to explain why
 some societies remain mired in poverty, disorder, and violence while others are highly
 productive, wealthy, and free. The goal of the initiative is rigorous, highly visible research that
 translates into policy ideas to reduce inequality, increase political inclusion, and broaden

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 opportunity amongst the poorer strata of society. LSE is supporting the latter with a Knowledge
 Exchange grant designed to facilitate translation of research insights into policy initiatives.

 The conference is led for LSE by Faguet. With some of the most creative and prestigious figures
 in the political economy of development, for example Boix (Princeton), Dell (Harvard), Fukuyama
 (Stanford), Haber (Stanford), Przeworski (NYU), Soskice (LSE), and Wantchekon (Princeton),
 this partnership is a key force not only sustaining the field but driving it forward. Major partners
 include Stanford University and the Universidad de los Andes (Colombia). Key research users
 include the governments of Colombia and Mexico, the Interamerican Development Bank,
 academic researchers in Latin America and an increasing number of countries outside the
 region, and public policymakers especially in Latin America.

 Centre for Public Authority and International Development (CPAID), whose research
 agenda is described above. CPAID is funded by the ESRC-GCRF. Its partners include
 international academic, policy, and NGO actors at the highest level: the Social Science
 Research Council; Conflict Research Group (Ghent University); Oxfam; and the London School
 of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine. Key research users include policymakers, civil society
 organisations, and other stakeholders in Uganda, Kenya, Sierra Leone, Rwanda, Burundi, DR
 Congo, South Sudan, Sudan, Somalia, Ethiopia, and the Central African Republic.

 Justice and Security Research Programme (JSRP) 2011-2016, produced primary evidence
 about the constellations of public authority governing the everyday lives of people in fragile and
 conflict-affected contexts: DR Congo, Central African Republic, South Sudan and northern
 Uganda. The JSRP explored three logics of governance: the political marketplace, moral
 populism, and public mutuality. Its partners included the Social Science Research Council,
 University of Ghent, World Peace Foundation, South-Eastern European Research Network,
 Justice Africa, and the VideoJournalism Movement. JSRP was funded by DFID, which was also
 its most important research user.

 ID colleagues also make important contributions via individual engagements with policymakers
 and users. One example is Forsyth’s work on the environment and development, on the basis of
 which the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services
 invited him to become a lead member, and the UK House of Commons Select Committee on
 International Development employed him as a specialist adviser. One strand of his livelihoods
 research shows how to acknowledge local contexts of risk and expertise within multi-scale policy
 frameworks. This is heavily cited in several reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
 Change, whose analysis it has significantly shaped.

 Another example is research by Gordon, which identified how bank de-risking shapes the reach
 of humanitarian programmes, both globally and within specific conflicts, hindering access,
 reducing timeliness, and undermining the transparency of the emergency aid system. He has
 since given expert testimony to DFID, the Working Group on Counter Terrorist Legislation and
 the UK Response, UK Humanitarian Forum, a number of US Congressmen and Treasury and
 State Department Officials, and several other US and UK foundations and think-tanks.

 Faculty are not the only ID colleagues involved in innovative partnerships and collaborations.
 Some of the most remarkable initiatives have been led by PhD students and graduates. For
 example, Blackmore curated When We Return, a project about ‘art exile and the remaking of
 home’. Collaborating with Porter and MacDonald, the project invited artists to reflect on research
 related to forced migration, displacement, and the possibility of rebuilding ‘home’ in the aftermath
 of war. This is one example of how ID research is increasingly reaching beyond social science
 and development policy, into the worlds of art and memory studies.

 As the role of the private sector has increased in international development, the department has
 sown a number of links with social enterprises, fintech firms, and impact investors. Delightfully, a
 growing number of these (e.g. Zoona, Instiglio) were founded by ID graduates, marking a new
 level of feedback intensity in our quest to shape development thinking in the ‘real world’.

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 And finally, ID faculty are intellectual leaders beyond LSE. Kabeer was President of the
 International Association of Feminist Economics (2018-2019), and also named a Key Thinker on
 Development (Routledge, 2019). Shadlen was a Managing Editor of the Journal of Development
 Studies (2011-2020). Other colleagues serve as editors and on editorial boards of international
 journals such as African Affairs, American Political Science Review, Comparative Political
 Studies, Development and Change, Feminist Economics, Global Environmental Politics, Journal
 of Modern African Studies, Latin American Politics and Society, Nations and Nationalism,
 Review of African Political Economy, Review of International Political Economy, Third World
 Quarterly, and World Development. Colleagues also help build developing countries’ research
 traditions by serving on the editorial boards of newer journals like the African Journal of
 Leadership and Development (Ethiopia), and Desarrollo y Sociedad (Colombia). And colleagues
 serve as chief editors, or on editorial boards, of book series with leading publishers, like African
 Studies, Cambridge Studies in Comparative Politics, and Cambridge Elements at Cambridge
 University Press.

 Colleagues’ research has received many prestigious awards. Boone’s Property and Political
 Order (Cambridge) was awarded APSA’s 2016 Gregory Luebbert Award, as well as the 2015
 APSA-ASA African Politics Book Award. Fairfield's book, Private Wealth and Public Revenue in
 Latin America (CUP) won the Latin American Studies Association's Donna Lee Van Cott Award
 (2016). Kar’s book Financializing Poverty (Stanford) won the 2020 Bernard S. Cohn Prize from
 the Association for Asian Studies. Shadlen was awarded the International Studies Association’s
 Global Health Prize (2019) for his book, Coalitions and Compliance. Faguet’s Public Choice
 paper (2014) won the Corporación Andina de Fomento’s International Research Prize.
 Meagher’s paper in the Journal of Development Studies won the 2019 Dudley Seers Memorial
 Prize. And Naritomi’s research has received the Distinguished CESifo Affiliate Award for Public
 Sector Economics (2016), the International Institute of Public Finance’s Musgrave Prize (2015),
 and Oxford’s Young Scholar Prize for Research on Business Taxation (2014).

 Colleagues serve on many grant committees, at for example the ESRC, Global Challenges
 Research Fund, International Centre for Tax and Development, National Science Foundation,
 and the Hong Kong and Portugal Research Councils.

 And lastly, colleagues have given many internationally prestigious keynote lectures, such as the
 Adrian Leftwich Memorial Lecture (Manchester), Figuerola Lecture in Social Science History
 (Universidad Carlos III, Madrid), Hsieh Memorial Lecture (Stanford), Roemer Lecture on World
 Affairs (SUNY), and the Wynia Memorial Lecture (Carleton College). Colleagues have also
 delivered keynote lectures at developing-country venues, such as the 5th Annual Meeting of
 Bolivian Economists (Santa Cruz), Centro de Estudios del Desarrollo Económico (Colombia),
 Indira Gandhi Institute of Development Research, Kerala Institute of Local Administration, and
 the LACEA Network on Inequality and Poverty.

 These are only a few of many such examples. Between 2014-2020, ID’s list of invited lectures at
 universities, think tanks, and multilateral agencies across the Global South and North runs to
 many hundreds.




                                                                                              Page 15
