Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: KING’S COLLEGE LONDON

 Unit of Assessment: 18 LAW

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and Research Structure

 The Dickson Poon School of Law (School) is one of nine Faculties within King’s College London. The
 School has 74.3 FTE academic staff, 100 PhD students, over 900 undergraduate students on
 its law programmes and 1,370 postgraduate taught students. The School has an excellent global
 research reputation, ranked 16th in the QS World University Rankings for Law and Legal Studies
 2021. It is a large, diverse and inclusive Law school, which advances doctrinal, theoretical and socio-
 legal scholarship of the highest calibre, supporting research centres, funded research projects and
 impact activities.

 Following a substantial donation by Sir Dickson Poon in 2012, the School was renamed. The
 donation was deployed to enable the School to recruit additional, high-quality academic staff,
 establish and cement the Transnational Law Institute (TLI) as a research and teaching centre,
 develop new teaching programmes and fund PhD and undergraduate scholarships. During the REF
 period, two Executive Deans (Caron, Douglas) led the School and soon we will be recruiting a
 new Executive Dean (Turk is currently Interim Dean).

 The School features seven Centres – the Climate Law & Governance Centre (CLGC), Centre of
 Construction Law & Dispute Resolution, Centre for European Law (CEL), Centre for Medical Law &
 Ethics, Centre for Technology, Ethics & Law in Society (TELOS), TLI and Yeoh Tiong Lay Centre for
 Politics, Philosophy & Law (YTL). Alongside this, we have formed reading groups and research
 clusters in key areas including legal philosophy (KJuris), criminal law theory and application (KCrim),
 socio-legal studies, and private law. We bring all colleagues and PhD students together regularly in
 staff research seminars focused on methodological, intra and interdisciplinary research questions.
 The School Research Committee (SRC), chaired by the Vice-Dean Research, is responsible for
 developing, articulating and overseeing the delivery of the School’s research priorities (including
 REF, impact, grants, the PhD programme, visiting researchers, research allowances and the
 establishment of research centres) and advancing new policies relating to research. The PhD
 Subcommittee reports to SRC and recommends policies and initiatives relating to all aspects of the
 PhD programme. The REF Strategy Group has led on REF preparations and comprises the
 Executive Dean, Vice-Dean Research, Research Professor, Associate Dean for Impact and
 representatives from SRC. We established a reading group comprising senior colleagues from within
 the School, representing different fields of expertise, to evaluate our REF publications.

 Research & Impact Strategy

 Our strategic priorities for the past REF period were to: (a) enhance and sustain research quality;
 (b) foster distinctive transnational perspectives; (c) strengthen collaborative and interdisciplinary
 research; (d) secure diverse and sustainable funding streams; (e) further strengthen the doctoral
 programme and postdoctoral experience; and (f) enhance the impact of our research. We remain
 committed to these strategic priorities, which align with King’s Strategic Vision 2029 and King’s
 Academic Strategy for Research.

    (a) Enhance and sustain research quality

 The School was rated as number 1 (based on GPA) in the UK in REF2014, with 84% of outputs rated
 3-4 star. We have sought to maintain research quality through the following mechanisms:

    •   Resources. We have maintained a generous sabbatical policy, with colleagues eligible for
        six months’ sabbatical leave every three years. An annual research allowance of GBP1,500
        is provided for academic and research staff. Additional funding is available for research
        assistance in completing books or substantial articles, presenting works-in-progress at
        conferences and hosting research events. Seed funding is available for staff wishing to

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        develop funding applications or to establish research hubs or reading groups. We have
        actively promoted the King’s Undergraduate Research Fellow scheme (see REF5a) and
        have recruited 81 Fellows through this since its commencement in 2014 (a total of 919
        Fellows have been awarded across the nine Faculties at King’s).

    •   Performance oversight and recognition. We agreed key performance indicators with the
        College that focus on increasing the percentage of journal article outputs and scholarly
        monographs within our total published outputs because we regard these as providing the
        best proxy indicators for research quality. We are submitting 35 monographs (21% of our
        return, if single weighted, 38% taking into account double-weighting), compared with 21 (16%
        of our return) in REF2014. We have engaged more concertedly with nominations for
        research prizes awarded for monographs and journal articles (see section 4). Sabbatical
        applications are carefully reviewed to ensure high quality projects will be undertaken (see
        section 2).

    •   Recruitment and career development. Strong research performance has been a key
        expectation of our new hires. Our reading group has evaluated candidates’ published
        research to ensure 4 star quality for senior hires and 4 star potential for junior hires. New
        members of staff meet the Vice-Dean Research and Research Professor to discuss research
        plans and the allocation of a mentor (see section 2).

    •   King’s Law Journal. We have improved the calibre and profile of our in-house journal
        by commissioning special issues that deal with important contemporary challenges, such as
        Brexit (2016), Democracy (2017), Capitalism (2018), Civil Liberties (2018), Environment and
        Sustainability (2019), the Political Constitution (2019), the Gig Economy (2020) and Covid-19
        (2021). Our circulation has increased from 85 institutional subscriptions (2014) to 2,923
        (2018). Our downloads have increased from 6,224 (2015) to 27,000 (2018). Several of our
        top downloaded articles come from academics at King’s (Bowman, Davis, Grant, Wintemute).

 In future, we will look to improve research mentoring and feedback on research by:
     • shifting the focus of our reading group to evaluating works-in-progress, rather than post
         publication outputs, with a view to helping colleagues produce the highest quality work;
     • ensuring that a wider range of colleagues (especially mentors) develop experience in
         calibrating standards of research excellence and can provide constructive feedback on draft
         publications;
     • actively encouraging more colleagues to seek nomination to research funding review bodies
         (AHRC, ESRC, Leverhulme) to gain further experience of high-level research project review
         processes.

    (b) Foster distinctive transnational perspectives

 The School has achieved a global reputation for expertise in transnational law through the
 establishment in 2014 of the TLI under the Directorship of Zumbansen and, from 2019, the Co-
 Directorship of Barritt, Ferraz and Zumbansen. The TLI is an interdisciplinary research, teaching and
 public engagement centre which builds bridges between public and private, domestic and
 international law and tackles problems in a wide range of fields, including corporate governance and
 commercial arbitration, human rights, refugee and immigration law, and modern slavery law.

 The TLI has facilitated debate and dissemination of its research through regular reading labs,
 methods labs, colloquia and workshops, including the Human Rights, Development and Global
 Justice series convened by Pils, and Transnational Law Summit 'The New Human Condition:
 Creating Justice for Our Future' in 2018, which engaged with the themes of work, political
 engagement, migration and a sustainable life. Keynote speakers included Shirin Ebadi, Nobel Peace
 Prize Laureate; and Susanne Baer, Justice at the Federal Constitutional Court, Germany.

 TLI has placed research-led teaching at its core, establishing a new LLM specialism in
 Transnational Law in the 2014-15 academic year. Several of its modules address urgent
 transnational legal problems that coincide with colleagues’ research expertise, eg climate change
 (Barritt, Bowman, Duvic-Paoli), post-conflict justice (Palmer), refugees and modern slavery


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Chandran, Juss, Kotiswaran), health justice (Ferraz), human rights (Ferraz, Pils) and corporate and
 global governance (Zumbansen). The LLM specialism has regularly attracted over 30 students per
 year and has been a pathway to 25 PhD students working on transnational law projects at the
 School.

 In future, with a change in TLI Directorship, TLI will expand its work to include:
     • greater emphasis on areas of global health, development and the rule of law. For example,
         Ferraz has been jointly awarded UKRI funding to produce a compendium, database and final
         report featuring country-level legal responses to Covid-19.

    (c) Strengthen collaborative and interdisciplinary research

 We have fostered collaborative and interdisciplinary research through our research centres,
 informal and formal College networking opportunities and research grants. We have particularly
 connected with philosophy, ethics, politics, geography, international relations, finance and business
 in our research.

    •   Establishing interdisciplinary Research Centres

 We have furthered our interdisciplinary ambitions by establishing two new Research Centres. The
 School founded the Yeoh Tiong Lay Centre for Politics, Philosophy and Law in 2014, following a
 GBP7,000,000 donation, and appointed its inaugural Director (Tasioulas). The YTL has fostered
 interdisciplinary research and holds regular ‘Law & Justice’ fora that consider contemporary
 challenges through philosophical, political and legal lenses (The Future of Europe (2017), Democracy
 and Citizen Participation (2018), Human Rights and Non-State Actors (2018), Technology and
 Manipulation (2019) and Artificial Intelligence (AI) and the Law (2020)). These fora have built on
 Centre members’ own research (Gingerich on the interrelationship of culture, equality and politics;
 Kletzer on technologies of decentralisation; Renzo on human rights, political authority, manipulation;
 Tasioulas on the ethics of robots and AI, and human rights and health; Vasanthakumar on exile
 political representation). The YTL also hosts an annual lecture and regular work-in-progress
 seminars with colleagues from the Departments of Philosophy, Political Economy and War Studies.

 Initially established as a research hub, the Climate Law and Governance Centre was founded in
 2019 to conduct interdisciplinary research into legal and governance approaches to climate change
 and sustainability. Members are drawn from Law and Geography. Research covers areas such as
 financial regulator activity, civil society movements, implementing transnational low-carbon energy
 policies, and the roles of courts in adjudicating climate change. The programme of activity includes
 labs and public lectures by visiting professors (eg Rajamani held a methods lab on multilateral
 climate negotiation and spoke on negotiations for the Paris Rulebook), workshops such as Climate
 Finance Law and a PhD-led reading group.

    •   College networking opportunities

 We have forged links with colleagues across faculties through informal mechanisms, including
 organising ‘speed dating’ events (on AI and Regulation, Sustainability and Climate Governance),
 inviting speakers from other faculties to participate in our staff seminar series (Hubbard (Geography),
 Jabri (War Studies), McKeown (Digital Humanities)) and holding ‘sandpit’ meetings with colleagues
 from Informatics, Digital Humanities and Business in anticipation of funding calls (such as UKRI
 Trustworthy Autonomous Systems). We have utilised more formal mechanisms, in particular the
 King’s Together Fund scheme, with 11 successful applications (see section 3).

    •   Research grants

 We have collaborated on interdisciplinary research grants. For example, Craigie, Richardson,
 Stanton-Ife and Walsh as Co-Investigators on a successful Wellcome Collaborative Award 2016
 (GBP4,000,000 total, GBP515,131 allocated to the School) with colleagues at the Institute of
 Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience (IoPPN) on a project entitled Mental Health & Justice. This
 project works at the interface of psychology, philosophy, ethics and medical law; the School’s team
 contributes substantially to a theme investigating how the legal capacity of persons with disabilities


                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 can be best preserved through supported decision-making (for other interdisciplinary grants, see
 section 3).

     •   Visiting scholar programme

 We have sought to promote collaboration through our visiting scholar programme. We have had
 over 70 visitors since 2014. Visitors typically stay for three to six months, have access to the
 university’s library and online resources, and are offered desk space within Somerset House East
 Wing. They are expected to present a seminar. Visitors must be sponsored by an academic in the
 School whose research is connected to theirs and who will personally support the visitor whilst at
 King’s. Visitors have come from across the globe (the top locations were Australia, Brazil, Italy,
 Japan, Spain and the USA). We redesigned the scheme to allow remote visiting during the
 pandemic.

 In future, we will:

     •   appoint a new Chair and Director of YTL who will continue to strengthen our interdisciplinary
         research in law, philosophy and politics;
     •   strengthen TELOS by recruiting at least a Lecturer/Senior Lecturer/Reader in Digital Law;
     •   conduct a strategic review of our seven Centres to identify where collaboration may be
         expanded or deepened;
     •   strengthen our links with Informatics, Digital Humanities and Business through offering a joint
         PhD studentship in the area of AI and information regulation;
     •   expand our mentoring scheme to include mentoring by and for academics from other
         faculties;
     •   support Bowman and CLGC to lead on a collaborative research grant on Climate Finance
         with colleagues from Law, Geography and Business; and
     •   continue to offer a virtual visit to scholars who would otherwise be unable to visit the School.

     (d) Secure diverse and sustainable funding streams

 Our research grant strategy and successes are discussed in detail in section 3. Here we note that we
 have targeted and been awarded funding from a wider diversity of funding schemes than in 2014. We
 have doubled our funding applications, and research income reached a six-year high in 2019-20. We
 have recruited a Research Professor (Cooper) to be the academic lead on research grant
 development and bolstered our administrative support (see section 2). We have offered extensive
 peer review on applications, hosted regular grant workshops and our colleagues participated in the
 College Leading Researchers’ Programme (Hestermeyer, Mumford, Webb).

 In future, we will look to increase our collaborative grant success by working with centres, in
 particular CCLG, TELOS, TLI and YTL. We will incentivise grant capture by improving our workload
 buyout policy (specifically, allowing for teaching reduction even where teaching buyout is not part of
 the grant). We will increase our research administration capacity by adding a School Research
 Officer to assist with post-award support.

     (e) Further strengthen the doctoral programme and postdoctoral experience

 Since 2014, our main improvements to the PhD programme have been:

     •   a more coordinated, strategic approach to PhD admissions by setting up a School PhD
         admissions panel;
     •   ensuring all supervisors have completed PhD training or refresher training as a condition of
         taking on students;
     •   introducing a PhD Subcommittee that reports to the SRC to review and formulate PhD
         policies;
     •   refreshing our first-year doctoral programme to include exposure to key methods, research
         integrity and ethics, and supporting presentations and writing;
     •   introducing a Visiting Lecturer Development programme to enable our PhD students to teach
         core modules;

                                                                                                   Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     •   providing an annual GBP500 research allowance to all PhD students; and
     •   offering fully-funded scholarships and a PhD Covid-19 hardship fund.

 (See section 2 for further details).

 Over the past REF period, we have increased our postdoctoral researcher community from three
 to nine researchers. Researchers are included in our mentoring programme and receive the same
 annual research allowance available to full-time academic staff (GBP1,500). We have a School
 postdoctoral representative who attends regular meetings organised by the College’s Centre for
 Research Staff Development to represent the experiences and interests of that group.

 In future, we will:

     •   introduce research methods training to our LLM programme to facilitate student access to
         ESRC Masters + PhD and PhD studentships; and
     •   place greater emphasis on grant funding that allows for PhD studentships and postdoctoral
         research positions.

     (f) Enhance the impact of our research

 We have strengthened our support for research impact within the School through the following
 mechanisms.

     •   Resources. We have put in place an Associate Dean for Impact along with a dedicated
         School Research Manager (Impact) to support impact activities. A School impact fund
         has supported colleagues with their external engagement activities. For example, it enabled
         Penades Fons to present his proposal for an instrument regulating international arbitration
         and cross-border insolvency at UNCITRAL (Working Group II – Arbitration) in New York,
         2019. As a result, he was appointed Chair of the committee for the creation of ‘Guidelines on
         Insolvency and Arbitration’ at the International Bar Association, which will be published in
         March 2021. We have obtained funding for four projects from the King’s ESRC Impact
         Acceleration Account since 2014: Duvic-Paoli’s workshop on the role of global energy
         governance for localised energy transitions, held at the Energy Charter Secretariat in
         Brussels; Katelouzou’s Global Shareholder Stewardship Conference, held at King’s in 2019
         to facilitate discussion on the future of stewardship policy between academics, businesses
         and policy-makers; Malik’s project on discrimination law in Viet Nam; and Tomlinson’s work
         with the UK’s House of Commons Justice Committee on the use of technology and online
         dispute resolution in public justice systems.

     •   Training and strengthening our impact literacy. Our Associate Dean for Impact and
         School Research Manager (Impact) have organised regular impact workshops with internal
         and external speakers, often attended by our two external critical friends (former Law Impact
         Assessors from REF2014). For example, two workshops were held in September 2018 and
         February 2019 and one at an ‘away day’ in 2018. Several staff have completed the Impact by
         Design module offered by King’s Policy Institute, which has been an important source of
         knowledge and support when planning engagement activities with policymakers.

     •   Expanding our connections with the legal world. Our colleagues have been seconded
         to organisations that play a key role in the everyday working of the UK’s legal system. From 1
         February 2019 to 31 July 2020, Davis worked as the Brexit Editor in the House of Commons
         Library to transform its editorial strategy, and in April-May 2020 also had the role of
         Broadcast Support for the Deputy Speaker of the House of Commons. Lewis became a Law
         Commissioner in January 2020 for five years. Through our Distinguished Visitor
         Programme, we host former judges as Visiting and Honorary Professors, and Distinguished
         Visitors give regular lectures and seminars. Visitors include several distinguished former
         justices of the Supreme Court: Baroness Hale, Lord Judge, Lord Mance and Lord Phillips.
         Other judicial visitors include the former Chief Coroner, Sir Peter Thornton QC, who runs a
         lecture series for coroners and lawyers that forms part of our postgraduate taught curriculum
         and is offered to external professionals as executive education.


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     •   Broadening our research audience. Effective communication with external audiences is a
         key pathway to impact. Academics in the School have taken advantage of media training
         offered by the College. We have engaged with social media, including by introducing a
         podcast series ‘The Verdict: Law & Society’, which is pitched for non-experts and aims to
         generate mass interest in contemporary legal issues, such as the EU’s response to Covid-19,
         gender equality in the legal profession and the legal tech revolution. It has 88 podcasts, 317
         followers, and over 31,000 plays.

 In future, we will increase our impact literacy and capability by:

     •   using our case study authors as impact mentors;
     •   providing impact induction workshops to early career researchers (ECRs) and PhD students;
     •   holding workshops on how to write for non-specialist audiences;
     •   holding workshops on how to use social media effectively to promote research; and
     •   more explicitly reviewing impact activities as part of our sabbatical and Performance
         Development Review (PDR) processes.

 Open Access
 We have consistently promoted the College’s open access policy, emphasising the required use of
 PURE, our institutional repository. We have actively sought to disseminate our research via SSRN.
 We have 137 authors affiliated to the School registered on SSRN with a total of 995 papers uploaded
 and 344,589 downloads. We are ranked 9th in the SSRN Top 500 International Law Schools based
 on the last 12 months of activity (which involved 113 new paper uploads and 41,454 paper
 downloads). We also share our research via the Dickson Poon School of Law Legal Studies
 Research Paper Series (started in 2013 and featuring 1,041 papers and 390,676 downloads) and the
 TLI Think! Dickson Poon Transnational Law Institute Research Paper Series (started in 2015 and
 featuring 179 papers and 37,217 downloads).

 Research Integrity
 The School’s Vice-Dean Research acts as a Research Integrity Champion, meets bimonthly with the
 College’s Research Integrity Team (see REF 5a), and promotes awareness and transparency on
 best practice for research integrity. In line with the College’s commitment to the Concordat for
 Research Integrity, the Champion is responsible for School-wide training and guidance in conjunction
 with our Research Integrity Advisors (Nelken, former Vice-Dean Research; Cooper, incoming Vice-
 Dean Research and Patrick, Faculty Research Manager). These individuals are recognised for their
 commitment to excellence in research and have extensive experience of empirical, theoretical,
 interdisciplinary and funded research, as well as significant involvement as assessors for funding
 bodies and publisher depositories including the Scopus/Elsevier Depository.


 2. People

 Staff Recruitment Policy

 The School submitted 33.88 (out of 55) FTEs to REF2014 and has 74.3 (Category A) FTEs in
 REF2021. Our growth has, in significant part, been enabled by donations from Sir Dickson Poon
 and the Yeoh Tiong Lay family. These donations, along with continuing investment from the
 College, have enabled us to build expertise in transnational law (Ferraz, Pils, Zumbansen); climate
 law and governance (Barritt, Bowman, Duvic-Paoli); and arbitration, negotiation and investment law
 (Caron, Grisel, Hestermeyer, Jeklic, Penades Fons), while strengthening our existing expertise in
 legal philosophy (Gingerich, Renzo, Tasioulas, Vasanthakumar), criminal law and justice (Gallo,
 Levanon, Mares, Quirk, Simester), family law (Douglas), public law (Cooper, Davis, Grant,
 McGaughey, Tomlinson), EU law (Tridimas), medical ethics (Craigie), private law (Hudson, Lee,
 Lifshitz, Lunney, Macmillan, McGrath) and commercial law (Daly, Durovic, Gurses, Jordanoska,
 Kalinitiri, A. Keller, Lu, Lunney, Saidov, Twombley, Zhang). Through strategic recruitment, we have
 sought to increase our interdisciplinary expertise, while playing to our existing strengths in doctrinal,
 theoretical and archival methods. In particular, we added a Research Professor post in 2017
 (Cooper) with extensive interdisciplinary expertise to enhance support for academic staff with

                                                                                                    Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 aspirations to win research funding. We also appointed two Practice Professors (Chandran and
 Mostert), specialising in modern slavery law and intellectual property law respectively, to bolster our
 connections with legal practice and help create opportunities for our research to have impact.

 We have made appointments at all levels, although the donations required appointments at senior
 (Reader and Professorial) levels. As a result of this and our successful promotions (discussed
 below), the School continues to have a large senior membership. Of the School’s 74.3 FTEs, 47%
 are Professors, 17% Readers, 15% Senior Lecturers and 21% Lecturers (compared with 56%
 Professors, 6% Readers, 19% Senior Lecturers and 19% Lecturers in REF2014). We have been
 conscious of gender equality when it comes to recruitment and have increased our proportion of
 female FTEs from 41% in 2014 to 45% in 2020. Of our academics, 49% are from the UK; 29% of
 the remainder are from the EU and 21% from elsewhere.

 Fixed-term contracts have primarily been used for postdoctoral researchers linked to funded
 research. Otherwise, there was one 2-year fixed-term Lectureship in Public Law (Tomlinson).
 Currently there are two 3-year fixed-term Professorships (Brownsword and Lunney). This is in line
 with the College policy to move away from fixed-term contracts wherever possible.

 We have significantly increased our professional services research support since REF2014.
 We have moved from having a School Research Manager and Research Development Manager to a
 team that comprises:

     •   a School Research Manager, who handles grant costings, sign-off/approval, and submission
         via funder portals, along with award set-up and post-award support;
     •   a School Research Manager (Impact), who supports research impact at all stages from
         research conceptualisation to post-research measurement;
     •   a School Research Officer, focused on management of the PhD programme;
     •   a Research Development Manager, who raises staff awareness of funding programmes and
         strategic fit, comments on proposals, organises other grant development support measures
         alongside the Research Professor and keeps abreast of key funding agency priorities;
     •   a Faculty-level Research Manager, who oversees the entire Research team and provides
         strategic support for all aspects of the research culture to the Vice-Dean Research.

 We will be adding another School Research Officer to the team to assist with post-award support.

 Staff Development Strategy

 The School supports the research development of staff using several mechanisms.

     •   Setting expectations and rewarding research success. We revised our Academic
         Performance Framework to make clear research expectations for every level of academic
         staff. Research targets are set for staff who are on probation and our annual PDR is
         measured against the Framework. Research performance is taken into account when the
         Academic Staff Committee (ASC) decides who to put forward for recognition pay (eg
         bonuses and discretionary increments).

     •   Mentoring. We have introduced a new mentoring programme, available to any academic
         staff, including postdoctoral researchers. Pairings are arranged according to expertise and
         preferences of the mentee and are discussed as part of a comprehensive induction with the
         Vice-Dean Research and Research Professor. Currently, 36 academic staff are mentored
         and the relationship focuses on all aspects of academic development, although there is
         invariably a significant emphasis on research and research trajectory. Specific research grant
         mentoring is offered by Cooper, Kotiswaran and Scott, who work with colleagues to develop a
         grant application strategy that spans several years (eg Bowman, Katelouzou).

     •   Sabbatical leave. Academic staff may apply for six months’ sabbatical leave after six
         semesters of employment with the College or after six semesters have elapsed since their
         last sabbatical leave. A sub-committee comprising Vice-Dean Research and Vice-Dean
         Education review sabbatical applications to ensure the proposed research activities are

                                                                                                   Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        realistic, of demonstrable quality and, where appropriate, have considered the potential for
        impact or grant funding. Academic staff on fractional contracts are eligible for sabbatical
        under the same rules, with the committee taking their fractional status into account.

    •   Workload allocation. We have introduced a more fine-grained workload allocation model
        across research, teaching and administration that has enabled fairer and more transparent
        workload distribution and allowed us to ensure that 40% of academic time is devoted to
        research. We reduce the teaching load of early career researchers by 20% during their
        probationary period to ensure they have sufficient time for research. We ensure that
        postdoctoral researchers are offered a minimum of 10 days per year for their
        professional development. To encourage impact activities and research grant applications,
        we have introduced policies that credit time spent developing impact case studies and
        submitting grant applications in the workload allocation. Since March 2020, workloads have
        increased due to the pressures of delivering teaching during the pandemic. We are
        prioritising resources to enable staff to return to 130 teaching hours per year in 2021,
        including recruitment of visiting teaching staff.

    •   Training. We have organised several staff seminars on different research methods
        (archival, theoretical, empirical and socio-legal) and keyword concepts (eg responsibility,
        standards, trust and play). This has generated awareness and experimentation amongst our
        ECRs (Katelouzou undertaking statistical methods training, Barritt conducting interviews), as
        well as building interdisciplinary conversations with the departments of War Studies and
        Digital Humanities. As part of these seminars, we have hosted research grant workshops with
        a view to helping doctoral, postdoctoral and early to mid-career researchers apply for funding.

    •   Promotion. We believe our career development strategies have worked well as evidenced
        by our considerable success in promotion rounds. Since REF2014, we have had 13
        colleagues promoted to Senior Lecturer (4 men, 9 women); 16 to Reader (9 men, 7 women);
        and 11 to Professor (6 men, 5 women). Of these promotion successes, 47.5% were men and
        52.5% were women. To support applications for promotion, we hold information sessions.
        The ASC, together with a promotion mentor who is a member of the professoriate, provides
        detailed feedback on individual applications.

 PhD students
 We have 100 PhD students (86 FT and 14 PT), compared with 96 in REF2014, from a wide range of
 countries working on topics that span private law; financial, commercial and investment law;
 arbitration, competition, intellectual property and information law; public law; legal theory; modern
 slavery; criminology; and human rights law. Our research students draw on a mixture of methods –
 doctrinal, comparative, empirical, archival, socio-legal and theoretical. The cohort is supported by a
 School Research Officer, Associate Dean for Doctoral Studies and the PhD Subcommittee. As
 highlighted in section 1, we have made several improvements to the PhD programme.

    •   Recruitment. Since 2017-18, we have introduced a School-level centralised Admissions
        Panel to review applications and interview reports, to ensure that we are maintaining a high-
        quality threshold, have sufficient supervisory expertise and resilience, are giving opportunities
        to early and mid-career researchers to supervise, and have oversight of the diversity of offers
        according to gender, nationality, topic and full-time/part-time status. This has led to a greater
        spread of PhD supervision across the School and maintained a breadth of research areas.
        We have admitted, on average, 20 students per academic year during this REF period and,
        for equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) reasons, have reversed our REF2014 policy of only
        permitting full-time registration.

    •   Studentships. The Dickson Poon donation enabled us to provide five generous PhD
        studentships per year from 2014-15 to 2016-17. Since that funding ceased, the School has
        funded general and EU law studentships. It has also sought to maximise its success with the
        King’s PGR International Scholarship scheme and external funders, such as the ESRC,
        AHRC and the China-Scholarship Council. During this REF period the School awarded 24
        fully-funded scholarships: 15 Dickson Poon scholarships; 3 Anthony Guest scholarships; 2
        King’s Law School scholarships; and 4 Centre of European Law studentships. The School


                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        also awarded 14 bursaries of GBP5,000. We have obtained: 8 China-Scholarship Council
        scholarships; 3 King’s International PGR scholarships; 1 King’s PGR International fee-only
        scholarships; 3 Developing Country Commonwealth Scholarships; 8 ESRC Studentships
        (Bryan, Ekman, Hamilton, Kopel, Mai, Marks, Webster, Wendebourg); 5 Turkish Embassy
        Scheme studentships; 2 Chilean CONICYT studentships; 8 Modern Law Review scholarships
        (Barritt, Choudhury, Kouris, Leung, Lo Coco, Lopez-Rodriguez, Minas, Ridi); and a MLR
        Covid-19 postdoctoral fellowship (Gill-Leslie). To improve our ability to obtain ESRC PhD
        funding, we are working with our ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership (LISS DTP) to
        introduce a research methods component to our LLM so that we can qualify for 1+3
        and +3 studentships. We aim to introduce this by autumn 2023.

    •   Research funds. All PhD students receive an annual research allowance of GBP500.
        They can also apply for additional funds to support fieldwork or delivery of papers at
        conferences or skills training that is not available via the School or College. The School funds
        the annual PhD conference hosted by the Graduate Legal Research Society. Our PhD
        students organise and curate this conference and some of them also present their research.
        We have established a School Covid-19 PhD hardship fund (in addition to the College’s
        fund) for PhD students to support housing and maintenance needs; 10 students have
        benefited.

    •   Research methods. All first year PhD students participate in a compulsory methods
        programme. As well as covering key research methods, we have introduced sessions on
        research risk and integrity, and on presentation and writing tips. During Covid-19, we have
        successfully delivered this online. The School promotes the skills and training that is available
        through the LISS-DTP and the Centre for Doctoral Studies.

    •   Monitoring and support mechanisms. Student progress is formally reviewed twice a year,
        with self-assessment by the student, assessment by the supervisory team and review by the
        Associate Dean for Doctoral Studies. Students must also pass an upgrade after 12-18
        months on the programme. We have introduced a thorough research risk and ethical
        approval process that must be completed prior to the upgrade. Monthly meetings are held
        between the Vice-Dean Research, Associate Dean for Doctoral Studies and School
        Research Officer to review cases where progress issues have been flagged. All supervisors
        have completed PhD supervisor training and refresher training offered by the College (Centre
        for Doctoral Studies). The quality of support for our PhD students is evidenced by 108
        completions over the last REF period. During Covid-19, we have maintained close contact
        with our PhD community, aware of the potential impact of the pandemic on their progress and
        have addressed the cases of those worst-affected by proactively requesting interruptions and
        exemptions at College level.

    •   Space. PhD students have access to two large rooms with hot desking spaces, one
        specifically for silent study, with 25 desks and computers. There is a separate office for
        writing up students who have assigned desks. Students have access to two kitchens in
        Somerset House East Wing, a common lounge area shared with all the law students and two
        conference rooms that are regularly used for PhD seminars and training. All students have
        access to lockers, printers and photocopiers and can book meeting rooms. During Covid-19,
        we created a rota system to ensure safe provision of work space on campus and access to
        computing equipment or physical library resources to students who needed such support.

    •   Skills and career development. We host induction events to connect new PhD students to
        their peers. We hold annual seminars on the upgrade process, the process of writing up, and
        preparing for the viva, as well as a careers event. Mock vivas are now standard practice to
        prepare students. We run a PhD internships programme, which has funded 17 internships
        for up to 12 weeks in civil society organisations including: Afghan Institute for Strategic
        Studies, Amnesty International, Equal Rights Trust, Global Legal Action Network,
        International Civil Aviation Organization (UN Agency), Rand Europe and Rights Watch (UK).
        We created a Visiting Lecturer Development Programme to provide opportunities for PhD
        students to gain teaching experience in core modules. The Programme allows PhD students
        to audit core LLB modules, provides modest remuneration for this auditing and guarantees an


                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        interview for a Visiting Tutor post within that module. This is particularly beneficial to PhD
        students who do not come from an English law or common law background. 53 students
        have completed the programme and we have continued it during Covid-19 through online
        attendance. We have employed, on average, 15 PhD students per year as Visiting Tutors.
        According to our careers data, at least 67% of our PhD graduates have gone on to
        employment in education and 15% to work in public administration, while 9% have moved
        back into professional practice. In response to Covid-19 and its impact on the job market,
        we have extended six-month visiting researcher status to PhD students who have completed
        after March 2020 so that they continue to have an institutional home.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

    •   EDI structures. The School is conscious of EDI when framing and supporting its research
        culture. We have an EDI Committee, chaired by the Executive Dean. The Vice-Dean
        Research or their nominee sits on this committee. The EDI Committee led on our Athena
        Swan Bronze application, which was awarded in 2018 and is leading on our Race Town Hall
        event in April 2021. SRC membership includes an EDI representative, representative levels
        of membership from all career stages and an even gender split. All recruitment panels
        comprise colleagues who have completed unconscious bias training and there is at least one
        (frequently senior) female academic on the panel. The Chair of the EDI Committee also sits
        on the ASC, which reviews PDRs and recommends performance-related recognition pay. To
        counteract the tendency of some academic staff to delay promotion application, the ASC
        identifies candidates for promotion from their annual review of PDRs and the Vice-Dean
        Academic Staff has in-depth conversations with all academics considered suitable for
        promotion. Extensive feedback and support are provided on the application itself (discussed
        above).

    •   Support for carers. Our academics have access to a College-level Parents’ & Carers’
        Fund, which provides financial support of up to GBP10,000. This is generally used to finance
        teaching buy-out or research and administrative support for a fixed period to allow fund-
        holders to progress key research outputs. This was used to support Samet, Scotford and
        Zhang, enabling them to complete major publications. Given the limited and competitive
        nature of this fund, in June 2018 the School’s EDI Committee agreed a School-specific
        Parenting Sabbatical Process for staff. This entitles staff taking parental leave (in excess
        of three months) to a one semester sabbatical when they return, free from teaching and
        administrative duties, to allow for a transition back to research and other responsibilities. This
        entitlement is in addition to staff members’ regular sabbatical leave. Thus far, six staff
        have benefited (Gallo, Katelouzou, Jordanoska, Malik, Palmer, Stefan) and two others
        (Barritt, Craigie) will soon do so. We believe this additional sabbatical has enabled returning
        staff to apply for grants (Katelouzou, Jordanoska, Palmer), develop impact (Stefan) and
        publish outputs (Katelouzou, Palmer). In reducing the current sabbatical backlog for 2021-22
        caused by Covid-19, we have prioritised granting sabbaticals to ECRs and those with caring
        responsibilities.

    •   Part-time staff. Of our 74.3 FTEs, we have 13 staff (5.3 FTEs) who are part-time; 2 are
        female and 11 are male. 10 are Professors and of the 3 non-professors, Herstein (0.25) has
        been promoted to Senior Lecturer and then Reader, and Stanton-Ife (0.5) has been promoted
        from Senior Lecturer to Reader during the REF period. The majority (98.4%) of our FTEs are
        permanent, rather than fixed-term, staff.

    •   Flexible working. We have a compassionate system of flexible working arrangements for
        staff with caring commitments or long-term health issues, with flexible working both
        informally and formally facilitated. At least 3 FTEs (Davis, Stanton-Ife, Zumbansen) have
        benefited from the formal arrangements. Our informal methods relate mainly to scheduling,
        reducing marking burdens and maximising the research-led teaching that academics
        undertake. For PhD students with caring responsibilities or ill-health, we have a transparent
        and supportive process for requesting interruptions. Where interruptions are not possible for
        international students due to visa restrictions, we have supported requests for extensions.
        For PhD students with disabilities, we have worked closely with them, the central EDI team


                                                                                                  Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         and counselling services to ensure that appropriate infrastructure and pastoral support are
         provided.

     •   Working practices and wellbeing. Our staff research seminars are held within the standard
         9-5 working day and our timetabling ensures that all staff have one day per week free from
         teaching and administrative commitments to dedicate to their research. We have five
         colleagues who have completed the College Mental Health First Aid training course.
         These ‘first aiders’ are available to any staff wishing to discuss their mental health and they
         also signpost to other support and resources staff might access. Our last School ‘away day’
         was devoted to staff well-being and we recently formulated measures to support academic
         staff during the pandemic by focusing on only essential administrative tasks, adjusting
         marking deadlines and ensuring that the PDR process captured any challenges faced during
         the pandemic.

     •   REF output portfolio. We have run regular EDI checks on our evaluations from the reading
         group. These showed no gender or ethnicity disparities. In making our final output selection,
         we decided on the basis of quality (as per the College’s REF Code of Practice) and then
         reviewed EDI characteristics. We found that our mean and median scores were
         consistent across gender and ethnicity, and with only a minor deviation across career
         level. The bulk of our output portfolio comes from our professoriate (60%), the remainder
         being evenly split across Lecturer/Senior Lecturer/Reader levels. However, this is consistent
         with 47% of our FTEs being at Professorial level. We found the output inclusion to be
         consistent with our gender and ethnic representation, given that 47% of our returned
         outputs are from women who comprise 45% of our FTEs, and 7% of our outputs came from
         BAME staff who comprise 7.5% of our FTEs.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 With regards to income generation in this REF period, our expanded research team has focused
 on two of the key strategic priorities mentioned in section 1: strengthening collaborative and
 interdisciplinary research within the School; and securing diverse and sustainable funding
 streams. In relation to the latter, the goal was also to support a larger range of applicants across the
 career spectrum, to create more capacity and experience with research income generation across all
 staff.

 Research income generation

 The departure of a major grant holder in 2013-14, and the resultant impact on our research income,
 necessitated a period of income growth and implementation of the diversification strategies
 mentioned above. At present, the results of these strategies are promising. Between 2013-14 and
 2019-20, annual applications rose from 11 to 21.6 and awards increased from 2 to 8. Research
 income reached a six-year high in 2019-20 (GBP701,051).




                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                   Research Income & Award Number
  £800,000                                                                          9
  £700,000                                                                          8

  £600,000                                                                          7
                                                                                    6
  £500,000
                                                                                    5
  £400,000
                                                                                    4
  £300,000
                                                                                    3
  £200,000                                                                          2
  £100,000                                                                          1
         £0                                                                         0
              2013-14   2014-15   2015-16   2016-17   2017-18   2018-19   2019-20

                            Award Number          Research Income


 Awarded funding has ranged from prestigious fellowships well-suited to ‘lone scholar’ research to
 large project grants for multidisciplinary, challenge-based team projects; in several cases, the
 momentum generated by a small, seed funding win has supported larger successes with external
 schemes. Some examples of our funding successes are given below to illustrate the progress that
 we have made with interdisciplinary research, diversification of funding sources, and School
 involvement in large, challenge-driven grants. Much of this income has supported impact with
 non-academic stakeholders, who have both benefited from the research conducted and, in some
 cases, helped to co-create it.

     (a) Interdisciplinarity

 Throughout this REF period, the majority of our large funding successes have been for
 interdisciplinary work, conducted both at the individual level and in collaborative partnerships.

     •   Transnational law. Kotiswaran, a senior member of the TLI, was awarded a Philip
         Leverhulme Prize (2014, GBP100,000), a GCRF Networking grant (2016, GBP164,244)
         and an ERC Consolidator grant (2017, GBP1,643,035) for research that spans the
         sociology of work and law, feminist legal theory and postcolonial theory, with a focus on rape,
         slavery, trafficking, sex work and the boundaries of formal and informal labour. As an
         advisory board member of the International Labour Organisation’s Work in Freedom (WIF)
         Programme, Kotiswaran has had significant non-academic impact because of this funded
         research, which has been instrumental in shaping a new service-delivery approach for the
         WIF Programme and informing public debate around the 2018 Anti-Trafficking Bill in India
         (ICS02_ModernSlavery).

     •   Gender and the law. Our designated Research Professor (Cooper) uses interdisciplinary
         socio-legal methods to explore the conceptual imagination and radical forms of state and
         non-state governance. She won an ESRC project grant (2017, GBP724,000) to study
         reforms to legal gender status, centring on the legal and social implications in Britain of
         abolishing the registration of legal sex. A special issue of the refereed law journal,
         feminists@law, was dedicated to this research in 2020. Through this project, Cooper was
         invited to participate in Office for National Statistics discussions on the sex question for the
         UK’s 2021 census. As well as being a law reform project to explore viable future law, it also
         provides a reflexive study of the challenges and potential of conducting a feminist legislative
         research project in which speculative future law provides a focus for reflecting critically and
         conceptually on gender and its relationship to law.

     •   Climate law and governance. Members of the newly established CLGC have utilised
         internal College seed funding, which specifically supports interdisciplinary and collaborative
         research, as a springboard to further funding and collaboration. A 2017 King’s Together
         award held by Centre Director (Bowman) with colleagues in Geography and King’s Business

                                                                                                     Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        School began a project on climate finance that was ultimately awarded a 2018 British
        Academy Small Grant, allowing for continued engagement with non-academic stakeholders
        in international organisations such as the UN Environment Programme, central banks and the
        private sector to create a Climate Finance Legal Options Toolkit. Bowman subsequently won
        a Leverhulme Research Fellowship in 2020 to pursue further research in this area. The
        CLGC has secured funding from the King’s Australia Partnership seed fund to work more
        intensively with colleagues at the Australian National University on the responses of
        institutional investors to climate change. CLGC Deputy Director (Duvic-Paoli) was awarded a
        Research Chair by the Sorbonne University-Paris Institute for Advanced Study (IEA
        Paris) on 'Major Societal Changes' in 2019 to facilitate her research on democracy and
        energy transition law. In 2020 she secured a Slingshot Fund award, part of King’s ESRC
        Impact Acceleration Account funding, to run a workshop with the International Energy
        Charter in Brussels on governing energy transition. The CLGC has also been very successful
        with funding for its early career researchers; three current PhD students affiliated with CLGC
        hold ESRC doctoral studentships.

    (b) Increasing diversity of funding sources and applicants

 Our research team has aimed throughout this REF period to increase the range of funding schemes
 applied for. Part of this commitment includes ensuring that academics are made aware of funding
 schemes of relevance to their career stage.

    •   Fellowships. Fellowships remain an important mechanism for providing academics with
        concentrated time to pursue research projects at early, middle and advanced stages and are
        beneficial to those conducting doctrinal as well as more interdisciplinary or empirical forms of
        research. Our research team has increased staff awareness of the variety of fellowships
        available through monthly e-newsletters, direct communication and targeted workshops.
        During the latter half of this REF period, the School had some notable fellowship successes,
        including British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship wins in 2017 (Hestermeyer) and 2018
        (Schillig) respectively; and two Leverhulme Research Fellowships (Bowman and Renzo)
        and a BA/Leverhulme Senior Research Fellowship (Player) in 2019. Our research team
        has also supported applications for early career fellowships, including those offered by the
        EC Marie Sklodowska-Curie Actions, ESRC, British Academy and the Leverhulme Trust.

    •   Nuffield/BA. As noted above, transnational law continues to be an area of strength. We have
        diversified the funding schemes supporting such research, and research by several staff
        members in this area has had considerable non-academic impact. Webb was awarded a
        Nuffield Foundation grant (2015, GBP68,696) on the right to a fair trial under international
        law and a British Academy Tackling the UK’s International Challenges award (2018,
        GBP91,710) focused on preventing modern slavery through enhanced monitoring of export
        credit and labour brokerage. Webb produced, as part of the outcomes of the BA award, a
        policy paper with legal recommendations that was launched at the UN Headquarters in New
        York to representatives of States, international organisations and civil society organisations.
        The paper provided grounding for an important, and ultimately successful, legal challenge to
        the right of diplomatic immunity in cases of modern slavery (see ICS02_ModernSlavery).

    •   BA/GCRF. Palmer’s British Academy/GCRF Education & Learning in Crises grant (2019,
        GBP359,484) is her second from this funder, which supports her long-term research focus on
        sensitive issues of community cohesion, governance and transitional justice in Rwanda. The
        grant is supporting the social science community in Rwanda to evaluate the design and
        delivery of a high school national curriculum of peace and values education. Thorough
        evaluation of this curriculum delivery will assist in determining whether it could also be used
        in the Central African Republic, which has recently been experiencing high levels of societal
        violence. Palmer was also awarded a BA Writing Workshop grant (2018, GBP19,950) to
        run a workshop supporting the professional development of early career Rwandan scholars,
        who are severely underrepresented in published international academic debates on law and
        post-conflict reconstruction of their country (see section 4).




                                                                                                 Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   BA Small Grants. The British Academy’s Small Grant scheme has helped early career
        researchers to launch ongoing research that could be suitable for larger funding
        opportunities. For example, Jordanoska won this funding to investigate the financial crime
        risks faced by UK FinTechs and their responses in preventing and mitigating these risks
        using empirical research methods.

    •   Bespoke schemes. The timeliness of our research has facilitated successful funding
        applications to more bespoke schemes run by non-academic stakeholders. For example,
        P. Keller secured GBP56,999 (2019) from the Information Commission Officer’s grant
        programme to address how consumer data autonomy and privacy rights can be more
        effectively developed and sustained as Adtech finds alternatives to third party cookies. The
        research will provide recommendations to the Information Commission Officer as an
        independent body upholding information rights and data privacy in the UK on how the UK
        may be affected by changes in the Adtech industry in its most influential countries, China and
        the USA.

    •   Covid-19 research. Our staff quickly capitalised on the launch of new funding schemes as a
        result of Covid-19 to address the legal implications of the pandemic. MacMillan obtained
        funding from the King’s Together Fund to investigate the impact of Covid-19 on English
        contract law. Katelouzou won her second BA Small Grant to focus on shareholder
        stewardship issues during the pandemic. Most recently, Ferraz won special UKRI Covid-
        19 funding to work with a University College London colleague to study and compile an open
        access compendium of legislative changes as a result of the pandemic (2020, value to
        School, GBP85,816).

    (c) Participation in large, challenge-driven grants

 We have taken advantage of the range of large, multidisciplinary funding opportunities to address the
 implications of the expanded use and technical possibilities of AI and machine data. Valuable
 opportunities for academic staff to contribute to challenge-driven grants have emerged and grown,
 particularly through expanded connections with the King’s Informatics department. For example:

    •   Nelken and Tasioulas are Co-Investigators on an EPSRC Cross-Disciplinarity and Co-
        Creation in ICT Research grant (2017, GBP817,224 total, GBP62,131 to School) with
        colleagues from Informatics and Digital Humanities to discover and address various forms of
        actual and potential digital discrimination arising from increased use of AI.
    •   Yeung supported colleagues in Informatics on a successful EPSRC TIPS2 award (2017,
        GBP1,265,823 total, GBP93,907 to School) entitled THuMP: Trust in Human Machine
        Partnerships. This project is now supported by P. Keller and investigates the privacy and
        confidentiality implications of provenance data.
    •   In 2020, Aplin was a listed Co-Investigator on a successful UKRI Trustworthy Autonomous
        Systems National Hub award, a circa GBP12,000,000 consortium of Southampton, King’s &
        Nottingham (value to School, GBP46,416). Our involvement with this Hub will provide
        increased opportunities to work on cross-faculty and inter-institutional research projects; the
        Hub itself will offer a variety of small funding schemes.
    •   Durovic, Co-Director of TELOS, is a Co-Investigator on a recently funded GBP8,600,000
        UKRI National Research Centre on Privacy, Harm Reduction and Adversarial Influence
        Online, as is YTL’s Interim Director, Renzo (2020), GBP123,482 value to School).

 Organisational Infrastructure to Support Research Income Growth

 (a) Bespoke training programmes

    •   School level. The Research Development Manager and Research Professor run early-
        stage development sessions on a 1:2:1 basis for any member of staff interested in
        developing a funding application. ‘Develop with peers’ sessions allow us to support and learn
        from one another, and mock interviews and panel reviews are offered. The School-level
        research seminar series (see section 1) runs across three terms each year to complement
        more specialised sessions run by individual centres and groups. These monthly seminars

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        cover both intellectual and practical topics, allowing our research team to offer advice on
        funding schemes and applications in a group setting. Recent examples include a session on
        appropriate fellowship schemes for particular projects or career stages, and one on
        understanding full economic costing. The School runs a research grant mentorship
        programme specifically focused on research development for funding applications. Staff at
        any career stage can request mentoring sessions with Cooper, Kotiswaran or Scott; all of
        these senior staff members have strong funding track records and experience as assessors
        for funders including: AHRC, British Academy, ERC, ESRC, Leverhulme Trust and
        Wellcome.

    •   College level. The King’s Leading Researcher Programme (since 2016, mentioned in
        section 1) brings together cohorts of Reader and Professor-level staff who are planning large
        external funding applications for skills training and mentorship. All three Law School staff who
        have completed this competitive training programme have gone on to submit project grant
        applications. In 2021, Stefan is enrolled on this programme. The College is also launching an
        Emerging Researcher Programme designed to support Lecturer and Senior Lecturer staff
        in a similar format. Katelouzou has been selected for this programme.

 (b) College-level funding

 We have utilised College-level initiatives to seed fund interdisciplinary research collaborations
 between Law and other Faculties at King’s. In the seven rounds of funding offered by the King’s
 Together Fund, we have succeeded with 11 applications, including for projects on ‘Building a
 Climate Finance Legal Options Toolkit’ (Law/Geography); Big Data for Better Regulation or Better
 Regulation for Big Data? An Exploratory Analysis of Algorithmic Regulation in British Government
 (Law/Geography/Informatics); Mapping Digital Humanitarianism: Confronting Opportunities and
 Challenges (Law/Geography); Mental Health and Justice – Developing a Ten-Year Strategy
 (IoPPN/Law); and Legal Regimes, Labour Rights and Export Processing Zones in South Asia:
 Strategies Towards Inclusive Industrial Development (Law/Geography/Political Economy). This
 scheme seed funded what became the successful Mental Health & Justice project (Wellcome) with
 colleagues from the IoPPN (see section 1).

 Equality & Diversity in Research Funding

    •   Gender equality. We have a strong track record of gender equality with regards funding
        acquisition; in REF2014 Green and Scott won an ESRC project grant and Wellcome Trust
        Senior Investigator award respectively, each valued at over GBP800,000, the largest grants
        during that period. Throughout this REF period, our female academic staff have
        continued to be very active in submitting grants and are regularly winning funding,
        evidenced in the early parts of this section. Women Principal Investigators (PIs) again hold
        our two largest research grants (Cooper, Kotiswaran). Of 135 funding applications
        submitted during this REF period, 71 were submitted by female PIs (or involved a
        woman from the School as part of a King’s mixed faculty team). This represents 53% of all
        grants submitted, while women currently make up 45% of the faculty. Notably, in this REF
        period, women across the career spectrum have won funding (eg Jordanoska, Katelouzou
        and Palmer as Lecturers/Senior Lecturers; Bowman, Cooper, Kotiswaran and Webb as
        Readers/Professors). Our parenting sabbatical leave (see section 2) and research grant
        mentoring have enabled several of these successes.

    •   Diversity of applicants. During this REF period, 97 funding applications involved staff at
        Reader or Professor level; 38 were submitted by staff from early career stage through to
        Senior Lecturers. Our research team has been committed to broadening applications across
        the career spectrum for the last 2-3 years and is currently working closely with a cohort of five
        ECRs to develop projects for schemes particularly designed for their career level including:
        ESRC New Investigator grants, AHRC’s new Research, Development & Engagement
        Fellowships and the BA Wolfson Fellowships, as well as AHRC’s grant scheme for early
        career stage. Continued access to European funding also allows for use of the ERC’s
        Starting Grants scheme.



                                                                                                 Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Infrastructure and Facilities to Support Research Income Generation

 Most of our staff are based in Somerset House East Wing on the Strand campus, with office space to
 house growing staff numbers now extending into the adjacent King’s Building. Shared offices for
 academic staff facilitate collegial interaction. All our academic staff have access to the full range of
 legal and criminological databases, journals and e-resources, as well as physical legal sources,
 housed in the nearby Maughan Library. King’s Library Services support our academics by managing,
 curating and disseminating their scholarly publications and research data, in line with funder policies
 and the REF Open Access policy. They oversee the School’s PURE institutional portal and deliver in-
 person and online training sessions on Open Access publishing, research data management, the use
 of PURE and REF compliance. The Maughan Library hosts over 1,250 networked reader places,
 carrels and group working areas, and holds more than 750,000 items including books, journals, CDs,
 records, DVDs and theses.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 King’s Vision 2029 sets a goal for the College to be recognised as ‘a civic university at the
 heart of London’. Our location facilitates close links with our main research users and subjects:
 Parliament, the government and the legal profession. Our researchers have given expert evidence to
 Parliament over 30 times in the past REF period on topics ranging from Brexit to criminal justice,
 have close academic connections with the Inns of Court and lead judicial training. Our international
 community of scholars and students means that our research collaborations and connections are
 global as well as local. We have assisted at least 20 governments with our research expertise. Our
 researchers’ advice is sought by regulatory bodies, businesses, think tanks, political parties and trade
 unions across the world. We also proactively seek out non-governmental organisations, charities and
 other organisations with the capacity to make change if supported with strategic legal advice. Staff
 offer their expertise as directors of research-related charities (including JUSTICE, The Sentencing
 Academy, StopWatch and Transform Justice). These external connections make our researchers
 more informed about the needs and knowledge gaps of key actors, leading to more relevant,
 nuanced research that also has the potential for greater impact.

 Below are illustrative examples of our collaborations, contributions to the research base, impact,
 key research users and beneficiaries, engagement with diverse communities, responsiveness to
 national and international priorities and contributions to the discipline.

 Collaborations and Contributions to the Research Base

    (a) Centre for European Law

 The CEL was established in 1974 and is the oldest centre of its kind in the UK. It has sought to serve
 the wider community, especially governments, international organisations and the practising
 profession. Its members help shape EU law and policy, and many of its alumni hold prominent
 positions throughout Europe. CEL collaborates in the newly established Jean Monnet Centre for
 Europe in the World at King's College London, with Biondi on the Steering Committee. The
 President of CEL is Jacobs, a former Advocate General to the Court of Justice of the European
 Union (CJEU). Vajda, the UK’s judge at the CJEU from 2012 until January 2020, has been appointed
 as a visiting professor. Stefan received European Commission funding to create a Soft Law
 Research Network (SoLaR) to analyse how soft law is used by national administrations when
 implementing EU policies. As a School, we are committed to maintaining our close links with our
 European colleagues and partner agencies in the wake of Brexit, eg by regularly participating in the
 Law Deans meetings of the Guild of European Research-Intensive Universities.

    (b) Developing social science research capacity in Rwanda

 Palmer’s research informed the establishment of the Research Policy and Higher Education (RPHE)
 programme inside the Aegis Trust (a UK charity based in Rwanda with a specific focus on peace
 education). The RPHE aims to bolster the social science research environment in Rwanda. Palmer is
 one of three international advisors involved in the RPHE’s peer-to-peer mentoring programme of 44


                                                                                                 Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Rwandan researchers who hold positions in non-governmental organisations, government
 departments and higher education institutions. The researchers have been mentored through an
 entire research project, from the inception phase through fieldwork, analysis and writing. This has
 been coupled with 13 training workshops, two short courses on transitional justice held in Rwanda,
 two national conferences, four Research for Policy workshops hosted in Rwanda, and an
 international impact conference and roundtable hosted in London by King’s. It received the King’s
 Award for the ‘Research Project of the Year’ in 2015.

 Sustained Relationships with our Key Research Users: Parliament, the Legal Profession and
 the Courts

 Blackburn has given constitutional advice to governments for decades. He was appointed to the UK
 Magna Carta Trust's committee established to conduct the 800th anniversary commemorations
 (2015). He acted as consultant on Crown affairs for the Cabinet Office and Treasury Solicitor
 (2014-15). The Cabinet Office sought his independent expert opinion through a period of unique
 constitutional uncertainty (2017-20). He served as Special Counsel to the House of Commons
 Political and Constitutional Reform Committee (2010-15) during its inquiry into a written UK
 constitution.

 Our academics have developed close links with the courts, offering training for the Judicial College
 and influencing guidelines on medical manslaughter issued by the Sentencing Council (Quirk). Our
 staff edit key treatises used by legal practitioners, eg Chitty on Contract (Lomnicka); Crown Court
 Compendium (Quirk); Halsbury's Laws (Blackburn); Modern Equity (Lee); and Oppenheimer’s
 International Law: United Nations (Webb). Senior courts have relied on our research in multiple
 jurisdictions, eg Court of Justice of the European Union (Tridimas); Hong Kong Final Court of Appeal
 (Simester); Court of Appeal of England and Wales, and Singapore Court of Appeal (Aplin, Lee); UK
 Supreme Court (Tridimas, Wintemute); and the Supreme Court of Canada (Lewis, Lee).

 Quirk and Lee have academic fellowships with the Honourable Society of the Inner Temple. This
 competitive scheme aims to support their research and build a stronger relationship between the Bar,
 judiciary and legal academia. Several of our academic staff practise law, eg Juss is a Deputy
 Judge of the Upper Tribunal hearing immigration and asylum cases; Caron was a Judge at the Iran-
 US Claims Tribunal; Chandran is a leading human rights barrister and her involvement in many
 leading cases has added a new dimension to the developing expertise in modern slavery within the
 School; Mostert works as Legal Counsel at Bird & Bird advising on intellectual property law; Nazzini
 is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators; and Tridimas regularly appears in the CJEU and
 Supreme Court on matters of European law.

 Contributions to the Economy

 King’s has a substantial cluster of academics whose research relates to how markets operate,
 financial and corporate regulation, and trade in tangible and intangible goods.

 The Greek government appointed Kalintiri in 2020 to help implement a directive on competition
 enforcement. Jones prepared a specialist report on competition law in 2014 for the UK’s (then)
 Department for Business, Innovation & Skills. The US Federal Trade Commission appointed
 Nazzini to sit on the drafting working group for the revision and amendment of the Recommended
 Practices for Merger Notification Procedures. Townley has provided expert advice to multiple
 competition authorities (including China, Pakistan and the UK) and the International Competition
 Network. Ewing’s research has contributed to how labour markets are shaped, in particular
 achieving justice in the UK for blacklisted construction workers and formulating proposals for
 collective bargaining that were endorsed by the Trades Union Congress and Labour Party.

 Our researchers have worked with the European Commission on state aid (Biondi), financial
 services (Turk) and creating a fair tax system (Mumford’s EU H2020 FairTax project, 2015-2019,
 GBP128,494). They have also worked with the European Central Bank (Turk) and Consob, the
 Italian financial markets regulator (Katelouzou). Tridimas is a member of the General Council of
 the Hellenic Financial Stability Fund, which oversees the way Greece spends the money given to
 it by the European Stability Mechanism following the financial crisis. Biondi was a member of the
 Italian Government Committee for the reform of EU General Block Exemption Regulation on State

                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 aid to airports and ports. Katelouzou’s work on the amended Shareholder Rights Directive played a
 critical role in the way the Greek government transposed the amended directive. Jordanoska is a
 member of the FinTech Financial Crime Exchange, a global network of FinTechs that collaborate
 on best practices in financial crime prevention.

 Saidov was Rapporteur to the Advisory Council of the UN Convention on Contracts for the
 International Sale of Goods (CISG) on its Opinion No. 19, ‘Standards and Conformity of the Goods
 under Article 35 CISG’, adopted in 2018, which will assist courts and arbitrators with the uniform
 interpretation of the Convention. Mostert’s expertise in intellectual property rights’ enforcement led to
 him conduct studies for the World Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO) that inform policy
 debates in WIPO Member States and advising the City of London’s Police Intellectual Property Crime
 Unit. Hudson has built on her extensive empirical research on copyright exceptions to develop
 guidelines for educational institutions in relation to online use of teaching materials during the Covid-
 19 pandemic.

 Responsiveness to National and International Priorities: Brexit and the EU

 Our researchers responded swiftly to the legal challenges thrown up by Brexit. They worked with UK
 and EU policymakers to help formulate policy, and they assisted the media to help inform the public
 and politicians about a complex and unprecedented situation. Biondi, Hestermeyer, Tridimas and
 Turk gave evidence before numerous Parliamentary Committees. Hestermeyer was appointed as
 specialist adviser to the EU Select Committee of the House of Lords to help it develop a scrutiny
 system for international trade agreements. Lee submitted written evidence to the EU Justice Sub-
 Committee Inquiry into Brexit: enforcement and dispute resolution. At the EU level, Biondi was Legal
 Advisor for the Italian Senate on the impact of Brexit on EU-Italian citizens and business. Tridimas
 took part in the Brexit negotiations on behalf of the Government of Cyprus drafting the Protocol on
 the British Sovereign Bases in Cyprus.

 Interdisciplinary and International Research

     (a) Health policy

 We are an international leader in research in the field of medical law and ethics. We established the
 UK’s first Centre of Medical Law and Ethics in the late 1970s, which has close links with IoPPN. We
 are also actively engaged in improving policy development, regulation and clinical practice.
 Brownsword was Chair of the Ethics and Governance Council of UK Biobank (2011-15) and is a
 member of the UK National Screening Committee (within Public Health England) that advises
 ministers and the NHS about all aspects of population screening. It comprises researchers, medical
 staff, lay members, policy researchers, health economists, NHS managers and ethicists. Lewis was
 appointed to the UK Donation Ethics Committee (2010-16), a team of doctors, lawyers, nurses,
 ethicists and ‘lay’ members. She is an invited member of the Working Group on Deceased Donation
 of the European Platform on Ethical, Legal and Psychological Issues in Transplantation, and
 helped to draft European guidance on the ethical, legal and psychosocial aspects of organ donation
 after circulatory death.

     (b) Climate law and the environment

 CLGC engages with governments, industry and non-governmental organisations around the world to
 inform decision-making to address climate and sustainability issues. The Centre contributes to
 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) assessment reports, which provide state of
 the art knowledge on climate change and are a key evidence source for international climate
 negotiations. Duvic-Paoli is contributing to the Third UK Climate Change Risk Assessment. In
 2018-19, she provided expert advice to negotiators at the Global Pact for the Environment
 negotiations, on the adoption of the first comprehensive treaty on environmental protection. She has
 supported civil society organizations, such as Legal Response International, a charity providing
 legal support to negotiators from climate-vulnerable developing countries during international climate
 negotiations.




                                                                                                  Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Bowman led the King’s/United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) partnership on Legal
 Readiness for Climate Finance. The partnership brings together private and public sectors, and
 legal and financial experts, around the world for knowledge exchange and problem-solving about
 how to mobilise finance to address climate change and transition to a low-carbon economy. As a
 result, Standard Chartered Bank partnered with UNEP to increase private sector engagement in
 Kenya; reports of Bowman’s work have been translated into Arabic and French by UNEP and
 referenced by Legal Response International to assist Environment Ministers and Treasuries in Africa.

 Ferraz and Wenar drafted legislation introduced in the Brazilian Senate, which would make it illegal
 to import oil from authoritarian or failed states. McGaughey co-created a model ‘Green Recovery Act
 2020’ with the Common Wealth think tank.

 Engagement with Diverse Communities and the Public through Research

 As well as Parliaments and international institutions, our work also relates to the experiences of
 marginalised groups such as women prisoners (Player) and LGB individuals and rights groups
 (Wintemute, ICS06_LGB Rights). Bowling is the leading authority on policing and BAME
 communities (in particular in relation to stop and search). Pils is legal advisor at the Inter-
 Parliamentary Alliance on China, an international cross-party group of legislators working towards
 reform on how democratic countries approach China. Tasioulas is a consultant on human rights to
 the World Bank.

 Our researchers engage actively with the media assisting journalists and the public in understanding
 complex contemporary issues. The BBC consulted Garciandia and Webb for a 2018 documentary on
 modern slavery. Lee has commented on the UK Supreme Court to the Washington Post. During the
 Brexit negotiations, Hestermeyer worked with key journalists to help them understand the
 complexities of scrutinising trade deals post-Brexit and was interviewed regularly to explain the
 process. He also built a significant public following on Twitter. McGaughey appeared several times
 on BBC radio regarding the prorogation controversy and regularly comments on labour law via
 blogposts, Twitter and The Guardian.

 Our researchers provide expert commentary on news and discussion programmes: Kotiswaran
 appeared on the BBC’s The Big Questions discussing modern slavery; Lewis comments on
 international debates around assisted dying; Quirk frequently comments on topical criminal justice
 and sentencing stories on national radio and television. Our researchers have also sought to engage
 the public more broadly, by offering a free online course on the Modern Judiciary that has attracted
 over 9,000 participants since its launch in 2020 (Lee), and by appearing at cultural events such as
 the Edinburgh Fringe Festival, Manchester Literature Festival and Manchester Irish Festival
 (Quirk, 2017 about miscarriages of justice); Cambridge Festival of Ideas (Pils, 2019 on power
 politics in China) and the ESRC Festival of Social Science (Cooper, 2019 about the future of legal
 gender). Webb is co-host of the international law podcast EJIL: The Podcast, which averages 4,000
 downloads per episode. We have used artistic tools to promote and inform our research
 (Zucca’s Shakespeare & the Law event at Middle Temple, 2016 and Cooper’s participation in the
 2020 GENDERS: Shaping and Breaking the Binary exhibition at King’s Science Gallery).

 Contributions to the Discipline

 Our researchers have been recognised as making significant contributions to law and related
 academic disciplines through awards, honours and prizes, leadership positions in professional
 societies, stewardship of journals and book series, and collaborations with researchers from other
 institutions through visiting posts.

    •   Awards and honours
        Biondi was awarded the Knight of the Order of the Star of Italy (2017) for exceptional
        academic merit and for his longstanding support of the Italian embassy. Our staff have
        received the highest academic accolades of fellowships from learned societies, such as
        the Australian Academy of Law (Lunney, 2018); British Academy (Douglas, 2017); Academy
        of Social Sciences (Douglas, 2016; Cooper, 2017; Zumbansen, 2018); Raz and Simester
        have received Honorary Doctorates from The Hebrew University Jerusalem (2014) and
        Uppsala University (2018) respectively. Raz was awarded the 2018 Tang Prize in Rule of

                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Law from Taiwan.

        Our academics have received several awards from the legal profession, in recognition of
        the contribution of their research to the practice of law. Verdirame was appointed Queens
        Counsel (2019); Blackburn (2016), Lomnicka (2020) and Whish (2014) were appointed
        Queen’s Counsel honoris causa; Douglas was appointed as Honorary Bencher at Gray’s Inn
        (2019); Lomnicka was appointed as Bencher at Middle Temple (2014).

    •   Prizes
        Our academics have received numerous prizes for their writing: the Antitrust Writing
        Awards (Zhang, 2014; Jones, 2015 and 2017); French National Centre for Scientific
        Research, Bronze Medal (Grisel, 2018); the Gregory Kavka/University of California, Irvine
        Prize in Political Philosophy (Renzo, 2019); the Intergenerational Justice Prize (Mumford,
        2020); the International and Comparative Law Quarterly Annual Prize (Webb, 2019); the
        Modern Law Review Wedderburn Prize (Levanon, 2020); the Society of Legal Scholars
        Annual Conference Best Paper Prize (Douglas, 2015); and the 2020 Smit-Lowenfeld Prize
        and the 2017 Trandafir International Business Writing Competition (Louizou). McGrath’s
        monograph was selected as one of the nine 2019 Legal Books of the Year by the Neue
        Juristische Wochenschrift, and Mumford’s Fiscal Sociology at the Centenary has been
        nominated for the SLSA Theory & History Prize 2021.

    •   Key leadership roles
        Our academics have held leadership roles in academic societies: MacMillan has been
        Vice-President of the Society of Legal Scholars (and will succeed as President in 2021, with
        King’s hosting the annual conference the following year) and Lee was Subject Sections
        Secretary (2017-2020). Hestermeyer was Co-Executive Vice-President of the Society of
        International Economic Law (2014-2017). Renzo is Secretary of the Society for Applied
        Philosophy. Nelken is part of the International Scopus Board/Elsevier. Lunney is Junior Vice-
        President and Council member of the Francis Forbes Society for Australian Legal History.
        Our staff are also heavily involved in the refereeing of research council grants and have
        sat on the project advisory groups of several ESRC (Cooper, Blackburn, Douglas), Nuffield
        Foundation (Brownsword, Douglas) and Wellcome (Scott) projects.

    •   Editorships
        Our staff edit, or have edited, numerous leading book series and journals. These
        include: the Oxford Law Handbooks Online in Law (Kotiswaran, former Senior Editor);
        Routledge book series, Social Justice (Cooper, founding and co-editor); Elgar Studies in Law
        and Regulation (Brownsword, general editor); European Monographs, Kluwer Law
        International (Biondi, general editor); Hart Studies on Judging and the Courts (Lee, co-editor);
        Child and Family Law Quarterly (Douglas, Gilmore); Criminal Law and Philosophy (Renzo,
        Simester); International Journal of Law in Context (Nelken); Jerusalem Review of Legal
        Studies (Herstein, co-editor); Journal of Applied Philosophy (Tasioulas); Journal of European
        Tort Law (McGrath); Journal of International Dispute Settlement (Schultz, editor-in-chief);
        Journal of Law and Society (Mumford); Journal of Medical Ethics (Scott); King’s Law Journal
        (Ewing, general editor); Law, Innovation and Technology (Brownsword, general editor); Legal
        Studies (Douglas, Quirk); Legal Theory (Raz); Modern Law Review (Aplin); Oxford Journal of
        Legal Studies (Simester); and Theoretical Criminology (Bowling).

    •   Visiting positions
        Our academics have forged connections with more than 100 national and international
        research institutions, including visiting positions at Freie Universität Berlin, University of
        Paris II, Columbia University, Harvard University, Hebrew University, New York University,
        National University of Singapore, University of Chicago, University of Melbourne and
        University of New South Wales. Other academics have held prestigious Academic
        Fellowships at the Centre for Maritime Law, National University of Singapore (Saidov);
        University of Notre Dame (Lauriat, Tasioulas); and the European Centre for Tort and
        Insurance (McGrath).




                                                                                                Page 20
