Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Institution:
  University of Cambridge
  Unit of Assessment:
  UOA 19 Politics and International Studies

  1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


Context and Structure

The Department of Politics and International Studies (POLIS) was created in 2009 by a merger of
the existing Department of Politics and the postgraduate Centre of International Studies. Two key
principles have shaped its identity and strategy. The first is an interdisciplinary and pluralistic ethos
embedded in the architecture and practices of the Department. The second is a broad, unifying
commitment to historically-grounded approaches to the study of politics. Within the current period,
we have built onto these foundations a new research strategy, a more professional research
environment, a significant expansion of staff numbers, and a stronger commitment to
dissemination and impact, epitomised by a recent major expansion into public policy research and
engagement.

These changes arose from a recognition of the need to improve our performance in the wake of
REF2014. In order to strengthen POLIS we have instituted new policies to support researchers and
entrench research impact into our operations, and invested significantly in staff recruitment and
postgraduate funding. We have consolidated core research strengths while developing new areas
of research concentration. The overarching strategic aim in this REF cycle has been to establish
POLIS as one of the leading medium-sized departments in the country. The Department has
pursued the following key strategic goals in order to achieve this overarching aim:

   -   expand the size of POLIS, principally through increasing the number of permanent
       academic staff and postdocs;
   -   increase research funding, through both philanthropic fundraising and research grants, to
       support the growing range of research activity in the Department;
   -   encourage staff to publish monographs with the leading presses and articles in top
       academic journals;
   -   enhance research impact through broader engagement and a greater focus on public
       policy;
   -   reinforce existing recognised areas of strength (political theory, International Relations (IR),
       British politics) and develop complementary new areas (e.g. public policy, gender).

As our submission to REF2021 demonstrates, POLIS has fulfilled all of these goals.

Currently, the Department comprises 36 permanent academic staff. It contains two new public
policy institutes, the Bennett Institute (established in 2017) and the El-Erian Institute (established in
2019), as well as five interdisciplinary Centres, each combining thematic research with a graduate
teaching programme: Latin American Studies, African Studies, South Asian Studies, Development
Studies and Gender Studies. Incorporating staff from other departments, including History,
Sociology, and Economics, the Centres help to define the interdisciplinary character of the
Department. POLIS also organises a number of active research groups: British Politics, European

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Politics, Historical International Relations, Governance and Human Rights, Geopolitics, and
Political Thought. They run extensive programmes of events – seminars, workshops, lectures –
throughout the year. All POLIS staff are affiliated with at least one of the Centres and/or research
groups.

Research and Impact Strategy

Research and impact strategy in POLIS is developed at termly Departmental meetings and annual
awaydays, through regular surveys and informal consultation with colleagues, and in coordination
with Centre directors. Decision-making is vested chiefly in the Executive Committee, chaired by the
Head of Department, which comprises POLIS academic staff (on a rotational basis) at different
levels of seniority. Strategy is refined in annual Departmental plans submitted to the School of
Humanities and Social Sciences, and informs philanthropic fund-raising priorities coordinated with
the University Development and Alumni Relations office.

POLIS has met and surpassed the key goals set for this REF period:

Department Expansion: Since REF2014 POLIS has expanded from 27 to 36 permanent academic
staff. The number of endowed Professorships has doubled from 3 to 6 (with the total number of
Professors increasing from 6 to 11). This expansion has enabled POLIS to consolidate strength in
key areas of research while building new ones. It has been driven by a combination of support from
the University, epitomised by investment in new posts, and a fundraising programme targeted to
realise our strategic objectives. Since REF2014 POLIS has increased research grant income by
over 300% (from c£3.1M to £10M) and diversified funding sources to include sizable sums from
industry, government, and research councils. In addition, over £40M of external money has been
raised. In 2017 a donation of £11.75M established the Bennett Institute for Public Policy. A £20M
donation in 2019 created the El-Erian Institute for Behavioural Economics and Public Policy. We
have intentionally sought external funding to strengthen our coverage of other areas, resulting in
the endowment of Lectureships in the politics of Africa (2), Southeast Asia and Latin America, 2
postdocs in Gender Studies, a dozen PhD studentships, as well as large-scale research
programmes in African politics, gender studies, security studies and human rights. Since 2014
POLIS has employed over 60 postdocs, more than double the number hosted in the previous REF
period, which has greatly enhanced our flourishing research community.

Publishing Profile: The quality and quantity of publications submitted in REF2021 marks a step-
change in our output, reflecting the extra resources put into research support and meeting one of
our core strategic objectives. Since REF2014 POLIS staff have published 33 monographs with
university presses (California (1), Cambridge (10), Chicago (1), Cornell (4), Harvard (1), Oxford (4),
Michigan (1), Princeton (11)). Articles by POLIS staff have been published in the field leading
journals: American Political Science Review; American Journal of Political Science; Journal of
Politics; British Journal of Political Science; International Organization; European Journal of
International Relations; International Studies Quarterly; International Security; International Theory;
Journal of Political Philosophy; African Affairs; Modern Asian Studies; Political Studies; Political
Theory; Review of International Studies. Since REF2014, over 30% of the established POLIS
academic staff have won prizes for their research (see Section 4).

Public Policy: POLIS has generated important new capacities in policy-oriented research. The
Bennett Institute has secured funding for 2 new endowed Professorships, 4 new Lectureships, and

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
extensive PhD and postdoc funding. It has developed three core interdisciplinary research
programmes: “Place”, “Productivity”, and “Progress.” The El-Erian endowment further expands our
policy research, by building capacity in political economy. These developments constitute a
transformative expansion in the scope and scale of POLIS public policy research.

The progress of the Department since 2014 was recognised in a Strategic Research Review
conducted in 2017 by Ira Katznelson (Columbia), Martha Finnemore (George Washington), Colin
Hay (Sciences Po), and Gary Gerstle (Cambridge). It concluded: “We came away impressed with
the energy of the Department, its talent, its youth, its leadership, its engagement with research and
teaching matters, its embrace of public policy initiatives, and its determination to excel at research
and teaching. There is a palpable sense of a Department on the move.”

POLIS currently has three outstanding areas of research strength:

   1. Political Thought, especially historical approaches. The so-called “Cambridge School” is
      one of the most recognisable academic endeavours in the discipline, and Cambridge hosts
      the largest history of political thought programme in the world. POLIS collaborates with
      colleagues in History to foster world-leading research in the area. Nine permanent POLIS
      members, including six Professors, work in political thought (Bell, Brooke, Browne,
      Hamilton, Hussin, Kelly, Kenny, Runciman, Sloman).

   2. International Relations, especially historical approaches (historical sociology; historical
      institutionalism; international history; history of international thought). We now have one of
      the strongest historical IR groups in the world, as evidenced by multiple-prize winning
      publications (see Section 4). Eight permanent staff are active members (Bell, Bickerton,
      Eilstrup-Sangiovanni, Green, Sharman, Simms, Mantilla, Zarakol).

   3. British politics, encompassing both historically-focused scholarship on political institutions
      and ideas, and contemporary political economy and public policy. Eleven permanent staff
      work in this area (Bell, Browne, Coyle, Kenny, Green, Grube, Runciman, Simms, Smith,
      Sloman, Thompson).

The Department aims to enhance its research capacity further during the next five years. To do so
will require expansion in permanent staff, postdocs, and research funding, which will allow the
Department to reinforce the existing strengths listed above, consolidating our research leadership
in those areas, while continuing to build concentrated research expertise in other areas (notably
public policy, political economy, and gender politics). The process is already underway. The
inaugural El-Erian Professor will be appointed in 2021. Two new IR Lecturers were appointed in
2020, and another one will be appointed in 2021, along with a new Lecturer in political economy.

Enabling Impact, Supporting Collaboration, External Engagement

The Department has transformed its impact strategy since 2014. POLIS appointed a dedicated
Impact Facilitator in 2017 to aid the Department in identifying and supporting impact and
engagement activities. Financial and administrative assistance from the University, Department,
and the Bennett and El-Erian Institutes is available to researchers to help impact endeavours. This
new funding and institutional environment has allowed POLIS to have a major impact, in ways that
are founded in our research strengths. Working both individually and collaboratively, POLIS

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
researchers have contributed to the formation and implementation of policy at international, state
and sub-national levels, and helped to shape the terms of debate among governments and civil
servants, politicians, inter-governmental and non-governmental organisations, media
professionals, teachers, and the wider public.

The primary mechanisms and structures through which POLIS supports research impact and
public engagement are:

   -   the Bennett and El-Erian Institutes, which provide a well-resourced institutional base, and
       significant administrative support, for policy-oriented research;

   -   networks facilitating collaboration between researchers, policy makers, and the media;

   -   financial support for impact activities, awarded on an application basis;

   -   a variety of public engagement initiatives, including professionally produced podcasts,
       blogs, and regular media appearances.

The Bennett Institute, co-directed by Coyle and Kenny, is the main institutional vehicle for
facilitating policy engagement. Since 2018 it has employed 21 researchers, who have bolstered the
group of permanent POLIS public policy staff members (Coyle, Kenny, Livesey, Grube, Penasco,
Foa, Geliphitis). Its activities are shaped by a research and engagement agenda that seeks to
inform and challenge the thinking of policy-makers, and bring scholarly research into public policy
formation, implementation, and assessment. In addition to its public events programme, it runs a
series of informal policy research “brown bag” sessions which bring together academics and policy
stakeholders to examine challenges on which researchers are working and to co-design new
projects. This has resulted in a new partnership on “Research Challenges and Levelling Up”
between the Institute and officials working on this agenda at the Ministry of Housing, Communities
and Local Government (MHCLG).

More generally, Bennett research on the limitations of GDP, accounting for natural capital, the
societal dynamics of productivity, and left-behind towns, has had considerable impact in British and
international policy circles. For example, Coyle’s work (as detailed further in ICS19-1657) has fed
directly into the review of the Treasury Green Book, and has resulted in a recalculation of the UK’s
GDP (which will now increase by 0.2%). Moreover, research she has led on the definition and
measurement of natural capital has been adopted by the UN. Kenny’s research on inter-
governmental relations has fed into an ongoing review being conducted by the UK’s Joint
Ministerial Committee, and been presented to officials in Whitehall and the Welsh Government. He
also delivered briefings on the challenges posed by Brexit and Covid-19 to the UK’s territorial
constitution to officials in the FCO, MHCLG, DCMS and the Welsh Treasury. In October 2020 he
appeared at the opening session of a parliamentary committee enquiry into devolution in England.

The University has a unique set of relationships with government officials from across the UK and
beyond, through the visiting policy-maker fellowship programme run by the Centre for Science and
Policy at Cambridge, which is coordinated with the Bennett Institute, and enables discussion of its
research with selected groups of officials (including Permanent Secretaries and Director Generals
of the UK Civil Service). It also enables Cambridge academics to enrich the thinking of officials and
decision-makers. Since August 2013, there have been over 300 visits from policymakers to 52

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
POLIS researchers, ranging from PhD students to Professors. Bennett researchers conducted over
100 visits with policy-makers across public, private and not-for-profit sectors, including the Scottish
Parliament, HM Treasury, FCO, Bank of England, the WHO, and the Commonwealth Secretariat.

In 2020 POLIS launched a major new Bennett research programme on the future of democracy,
led by Runciman and Foa. One of its primary goals is to enrich public debate and policy formation.
A launch report drawing on a unique, global dataset of public attitudes, examined declining support
for democracy across the world and attracted transatlantic media attention, including BBCR4, ITV,
CNBC, Newsweek, and The Atlantic. A subsequent report on global youth attitudes elicited
coverage in The Times, The Guardian, The Hindustan Times and USA Today.

As well as facilitating significant impact on policy, POLIS researchers have been involved in
extensive public engagement activities. A prominent example of this is the Talking Politics podcast,
which has attracted over 20M listens since 2016. The podcast has become a launching point for
further engagement, with POLIS panellists regularly contacted by media outlets for interviews or to
contribute opinion pieces based on their contributions (e.g. Financial Times, BBC News, New
Statesman, New York Times). Moreover, UK and European politicians have contacted panellists
for further discussions.

POLIS scholars have utilised their research to benefit teaching in schools. The Talking Politics
team designed a package of pedagogical resources. A June 2019 survey of 170 teachers who
listen to Talking Politics found that 53% integrated it into their A-level teaching. Chang has shaped
public understanding of political economy and development, selling over 2 million books in 41
languages. His research about the nature of capitalism and the necessity of targeted industrial
policies for economic development is a standard reference in textbooks and teaching materials for
GCSE and A-Levels (e.g. AQA A-Level Economics, Book 2 textbook; Edexcel A-level Politics
Student Guide 5: Global Politics (2018)). One teacher from a college in Plymouth commented in a
2019 survey of teachers that “[h]e had totally inspired how I approach my teaching of general
theory and how I challenge preconceived ideas.” Chang’s influence on teaching has an
international dimension: his online materials for schools and universities have been used in over 30
countries. Launched in late 2019, a teaching programme that he developed with the Institute for
New Economic Thinking (INET) to provide free and accessible online curricula, has had more than
600,000 views and 76,000 engagements across five platforms.

Since 2014, 7 members of staff have received funding from either the ESRC or the University
Impact Acceleration Fund to support impact projects. The strength of POLIS impact is indicated by
the range and quality of the impact cases submitted to REF2021. They cover public engagement,
media programming and school pedagogy (Runciman and Thompson, ICS19-1645), public policy
formation and implementation in Britain (Coyle, ICS19-1657), and two African politics cases, one
focusing on political communications and citizen participation (Srinivasan, ICS19-1651), the other
encompassing the creation of a social movement and crafting of government legislation around
energy politics (Branch, ICS19-1654). The cases were selected from a pool of candidates after a
rigorous process of assessment by the POLIS REF Committee. Since 2017, the Case Study leads
have met regularly with Committee members, as well as School and University-level REF impact
teams, to receive feedback and share best practice. POLIS researchers have won impact/public
engagement awards (e.g. Africa’s Voices won the UK Market Research Society President’s Medal
for social impact, and Weller won the 2017 Jus Gentium Research Award from the American
Society of International Law for “enhancing scholarship and open access to legal information”).

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Integrity and Research Ethics / Open Access

All funded POLIS research projects are subject to ethical approval before commencement. This
requires the submission of a comprehensive ethics self-assessment form based on the University’s
guidelines. These documents are assessed by the POLIS Research Ethics Committee. When
issues arise that require further scrutiny they are referred to the School-level Research Ethics
Committee.

The Department complies with national and University Open Access policies through an online
University Open Access platform. Some major POLIS research projects have substantial Open
Access components. The film and oral history collections of the South Asia Library are free to
access online (https://www.s-asian.cam.ac.uk/archive/). The datasets for the World Values Survey,
led by Foa, were made open access in summer 2020. Weller’s “Languages of Peace” dataset
analysing and organising 1,000+ peace agreements (developed under an ESRC grant) is hosted
by the UN Peacemaker website (https://peacemaker.un.org) and managed by the UN Department
of Political Affairs.




                                                                                          Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



  2. People

The quality of research in POLIS depends on the recruitment and support of excellent scholars,
from PhD students to Professors. Since REF2014 the Department has appointed a dozen new
staff members, expanded postdoc numbers, and substantially improved PhD funding and training.
We also instituted new mentoring and training schemes to provide guidance and support for early
career researchers.

Senior Appointments

In 2014 Runciman succeeded Gamble as Professor of Politics. A leading scholar of democracy, he
has energized outreach activities and provided leadership for the political thought group. In 2017
Sharman replaced Hill as Sheehy Professor of International Relations, enhancing strength in
historical international relations. Hurst has been appointed to the Chong Hua Professorship of
Chinese Development Studies, succeeding Nolan (he starts in January 2021). He will provide
leadership in Development Studies. Hamilton was appointed to a South African NSF/British
Academy Research Professorship, augmenting the Political Thought group while establishing an
institutional connection with South African universities. Since 2014 POLIS has secured three new
endowed public policy Chairs. In 2017 Kenny was appointed Professor of Public Policy, deepening
expertise in British politics and political thought. In 2018 Coyle was appointed to the Bennett
Professorship, enhancing strength in political economy. The inaugural El-Erian Professor of
Behavioural Economics and Public Policy will be appointed in 2021.

Lecturer Appointments

POLIS has made a number of new appointments to deepen existing areas of research strength –
in political thought, IR, and area studies – while developing new strengths in public policy and
gender. Brooke joined the Political Thought group, while Green, Rapport, Recchia, and Mantilla
reinforced IR. Branch has strengthened expertise in African politics, with Bickerton doing the same
for European Politics. Sloman’s appointment boosted British politics research. Hussin expanded
strength in Southeast Asian politics, while Denyer Willis and Loureiro added expertise in Latin
America. Investment in public policy led to the appointment of Anadon, Foa, Gelepithis, Grube, and
Peñasco (Anadon was subsequently appointed to a Chair in another Cambridge department;).
Wilcox and Porter were appointed in Gender Studies. Two new IR appointees will start in 2020,
and 2 new Lectureships have been authorised for 2021.

Early Career Researchers

POLIS ECRs constitute a vital part of POLIS research culture. They are integrated into the
Department from the outset, performing a variety of crucial roles as well as pursuing their research.
They fall into two main categories: postdocs and temporary teaching staff.

The 2017 Strategic Review commended the ability of POLIS to “draw in some of the best young
talent in political science,” and this has enabled the Department to enrich and deepen its research
culture, bringing a host of early career scholars from around the world into the research
community. Since 2014 POLIS has secured 63 postdocs:

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


   1. Independent researchers. POLIS has secured (among others) the following postdoctoral
      fellowships: 10 Leverhulme Early Career, 7 Marie-Slodowska, 4 British Academy, 2 Mellon
      and 2 ESRC.
   2. Over 30 postdocs have been appointed to research projects funded by (among others) the
      ERC, ESRC, Leverhulme Trust, and Wiener-Ansbach Foundation.

POLIS has also hosted a dozen Junior Research Fellows (JRFs), multi-year postdocs appointed by
colleges who are integrated into the Department research community. The majority have been in
Political Thought (Conti, Fleming, Mackinnon, Rosenboim, Rubinelli, Sagar, Zacka and Zeitlin;
Sohal and Sultan started in October 2020).

Each postdoc is assigned a mentor for the duration of their time in Cambridge. There is an
established postdoc group with a representative to liaise with POLIS leadership. Postdocs serve on
various POLIS committees and help run research groups. They have an excellent record of
securing permanent Lectureships/tenure-track appointments. Examples include tenure-track
positions at Princeton (Conti), MIT (Zacka), Yale (Rubinelli), Montreal (Martin de Almagro), Quebec
(Choquette), and Connecticut (Anievas), and Lectureships at Cambridge (Mackinnon), City
(Rosenboim), KCL (Sagar), Nottingham (Drochon), and York (Moore).

Fixed-term Lecturers are recruited to cover research and parental leave. These positions play an
important role in developing ECR careers, and advancing our strategic objectives by enabling
existing staff members to take up large-scale research projects and caring responsibilities. Fixed-
term Lecturers are not overloaded – their average teaching load is 30 hours/p.a. below the average
stint level of permanent staff. (During each year of the REF cycle, over 90% of lectures and
seminars were delivered by permanent staff members). Moreover, they are not asked to assume
major service roles. They receive the same Departmental research funding as permanent staff and
are integrated into research groups. All of those appointed during this REF cycle have secured
either permanent academic posts elsewhere or a temporary appointment at another university.
Examples include Blunt (City), Pearce (Sussex), Sheikh (Sussex) and Bourbeau (Laval).

Visiting Scholars

POLIS research culture is enriched by our visiting scholar scheme. Since REF2014, the
Department has hosted 82 visitors, staying from 2 weeks to one year, from over a dozen countries.
Visitors attend events, present work, and interact with staff and research students. In 2019 Coyle
secured a Leverhulme Visiting Professorship to bring Marie-Claire Segger (Waterloo) to
Cambridge to collaborate. The Centres run their own visitor programmes. Gender Studies, for
example, hosts the Diane Middlebrook and Carl Djerassi Visiting Professorship. Since REF2014
the holders (who typically spend a term in POLIS) have included: Bina Agarwal (Manchester);
Seyla Benhabib (Yale); Rosi Braidotti (Utrecht); Judith Butler (Berkeley); and Nancy Fraser (New
School).

POLIS organises an extensive schedule of research events. Over a dozen separate seminar series
provide regular opportunities to engage with external speakers and present work. The main
Department Research Seminar meets three times per term. There are separate series dedicated to
public policy, British politics, European politics, human rights, historical IR, geopolitics, history of



                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
political thought (co-organised with History), and contemporary political theory (co-organised with
Philosophy). In addition, the Centres run their own research seminars.

POLIS also organises several prestigious annual lectures, which draw leading scholars and
practitioners to Cambridge. These are: the Hinsley Memorial Lecture (IR), Antcliffe Lecture (British
Politics), Alcuin Lecture (European Politics), Public Policy Lecture. Three Centres host annual
lectures: Audrey Richards (African Studies), Kingsley Martin (South Asian Studies), Juliet Mitchell
(Gender Studies). The Political Thought group co-organises the biannual Seeley lecture series,
which brings eminent political philosophers to Cambridge to give 4 lectures and a workshop, and
the annual Quentin Skinner Lecture and Colloquium for early career scholars. Such events enable
our PhD students, postdocs and staff to engage with research leaders in different fields.

Career Development

A key feature of the more professionalised approach POLIS has developed is a focus on the
career development of its researchers. POLIS provides up to £6000 immigration reimbursements
for those appointed to teaching posts. All new staff are assigned a mentor and have regular
meetings with the HoD to assess career progression. New appointees are given reduced teaching
loads to ease their transition into the Department. All University teaching staff, permanent and
fixed-term, are entitled to one term of sabbatical after six terms worked. Several POLIS staff
(Bickerton, Green, Hussin, Recchia, Wilcox, Zarakol) have benefited from competitive internal
Early Career Fellowships, which gave them valuable research time. In 2016 a stint system was
introduced to ensure an equitable distribution of teaching and administrative loads.

Since 2014 there have been 4 promotions to Professor (2 female, 2 male), 10 to Reader (6 female,
4 male) and 8 to Senior Lecturer (4 female, 4 male):

   -   Bell, Browne, Kelly, and Thompson were promoted to personal Chairs, while Runciman
       secured an established Chair.
   -   Abdelrahman, Bell, Bickerton, Branch, Browne, Eilstrup-Sangiovanni, Grube, Narlikar,
       Smith, and Zarakol were promoted to Readerships.
   -   Brooke, Curtis, Denyer Willis, Eilstrup-Sangiovanni, Hussin, Sloman, Van Houten, and
       Wilcox were promoted to Senior Lectureships.

Research Support

Staff in POLIS benefit from the extensive resources of Cambridge. A dedicated POLIS Research
Administrator provides high-level support for funding applications. The School provides additional
full-time Research Facilitators. The School gives £10,000 to new permanent staff to spend on their
research projects. All POLIS staff have an annual Research Allowance of £1500. POLIS also has a
Research Fund that allows staff (including postdocs) to apply for up to £3000 to support research
activities, including book workshops and research assistance. These funds will be maintained in
full in 2020-21, despite pandemic-related strains on finances.

Research Students

POLIS runs a vibrant and successful PhD programme. A dedicated committee handles PhD
admissions. A PhD Director coordinates training and professional development, both of which have

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
expanded considerably since REF2014. POLIS also administers the multidisciplinary PhD
programmes run by the Centres of Latin American Studies, Gender Studies, and Development
Studies. Although their programme directors report to the POLIS Degree Committee, the Centres
organise their own recruitment, admissions, and training processes.

In 2018 POLIS made the strategic decision to reduce the size of its core PhD cohort in order to
increase the funding and time spent on training and professional development for individual
students. POLIS now aims to admit 15-17 candidates per year. The application process is highly
competitive. For the 2020 entry, for example, we had 216 applicants, made 30 offers, and admitted
17 students. POLIS has a high success rate in securing graduate funding from research councils
(e.g. 9 AHRC and 10 ESRC awards since 2014) and in University-wide funding competitions (e.g.
winning more Gates Scholarships than any other department in the School). Since REF2014
POLIS has also secured extensive funding from external sources to support the PhD programme.
Most notably, the El-Erian donation provides £4.7M for PhD funding and the Bennett endowment
supports two doctoral studentships.

Each PhD student has a Primary Supervisor, responsible for their academic development, and an
Advisor, who provides extra input. Each student is also assigned a College Tutor for pastoral
needs. Academic development is monitored closely and there are several assessment stages. At
the end of Year 1, the Advisor and an expert Assessor conduct a Registration Exercise to
determine whether full registration is warranted. At the end of Years 2 and 3, students have formal
progress meetings with their Primary Supervisor and Advisor. There are extensive reporting
procedures to record development and log any problems. Primary Supervisors write a termly report
on each student, and students write their own progress report. All reports are available to student,
Department, and college.

Since 2014 training for postgraduates has been strengthened, with particular attention paid to
bolstering provision of professional development skills. In Year 1 POLIS students take a mandatory
course in the philosophy of social science, and select at least two relevant methods training
modules. They can access further methods training if needed. The University Language Centre
provides tailored courses in dozens of languages. POLIS organises an Academic Professional
Development sequence, covering publishing, presentation skills, conferences, postdoc
applications, and the job market. POLIS is part of the ESRC-sponsored Doctoral Training Centre,
which runs assorted career-development initiatives. Final year PhD students have a dedicated
writing-up room and are entitled to mock job talks to hone presentational skills and receive
feedback. Students can access the annual School Fieldwork Funding scheme. POLIS has a
separate PhD Fund that provides all students with £500 for conference attendance and £500 for
other research expenses. In cases of financial need students can apply to a Hardship Fund. All
these funds remain in place despite the pandemic. From Year 2 onwards, students are encouraged
to gain teaching experience, for which appropriate opportunities, training, and mentoring is
provided.

PhD students are key members of the POLIS research community. A student-convened PhD
research seminar provides a regular forum to present work-in-progress. Students take leadership
and editorial roles on the Cambridge Review of International Affairs, a student-run academic
journal published by Taylor & Francis, and the Department Blog, In the Long Run. Others work on
the Declarations podcast, run by students in the Governance and Human Rights group. Funding is
available for PhD students to organise cross-departmental workshops and reading groups.

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Since REF2014 a significant number of our PhD students have won prestigious prizes: APSA
MENA Section PhD dissertation prize (Martinez); EISA Dissertation Prize (Fleming); Körber
Foundation Social Science Dissertation Prize (Binder); Millennium Northedge Essay Prize (Lerner);
PSA Ernest Barker and Elizabeth Wiskermann prizes (Turnaoğlu, Nuti); Prix Raymond Aron
(Rosenboim). They have published articles in many leading journals, including: European Journal
of International Relations; International Affairs; International Political Sociology; International
Theory; European Journal of Political Theory; History of Political Thought; Journal of Development
Studies; Journal of Political Philosophy; Political Theory; Review of International Political Economy;
Security Dialogue. The Political Thought and Historical IR students have been notably successful
in landing prestigious postdocs and faculty positions. Baji (Waseda), Loh (Nanyang), Lerner (Royal
Holloway), Manchanda (Leiden) and Nuti (York) were appointed straight to Assistant
Professorships/Lectureships. Those securing multi-year postdocs include: Ghins (Political Theory
Project, Brown University); Rosenboim, Fleming, and Rubinelli (JRFs); Garnsey and Turnaglou
(BA postdocs); Paes (NUPI); Anievas, Heiskaanen and Ozcelik (Leverhulme ECF); Paltieli
(Polonsky postdoc, Hebrew University); Holley (Harper-Schmidt Fellowship, Chicago; Max Weber
Fellowship, EUI).

Equality and Diversity

Support for equality and diversity (E&D) is integral to POLIS’s operations and strategic planning.
Policies to strengthen E&D in Departmental operations cover a range of issues, especially hiring,
promotion, work-load distribution, and resource provision. POLIS practises complement University
E&D programmes and policies. Cambridge has extensive structures and networks in place to
support staff and students with protected characteristics, including LGBTQ+, Women’s, and BAME
staff networks, and a Disability Resource Centre.

POLIS is committed to creating an accessible working environment. A dedicated Disability Liaison
Officer coordinates with the Disability Resource Centre to ensure that the working environment
meets the needs of all. The POLIS building is fully accessible for wheelchair users. There is
suitable on-site parking. The office accommodation, teaching rooms, and communal areas, are
accessible by lift. There are disabled toilets on every floor. Assistance dogs are welcome.
Arrangements for members with Specific Learning Difficulties are furnished on an individual basis,
in conjunction with the Disability Resource Centre. Since 2014 the University has instituted various
new mechanisms and processes to address racial inequalities. In October 2018, for example, it
created the “End Everyday Racism” platform, where individuals can report incidents to help inform
antiracist activism at the University. In 2019 POLIS created a staff-student working group to
discuss the decolonisation of course syllabi. Research based in POLIS is exploring the historical
involvement of the University in the slave trade. Appointed in 2019, two postdocs will report their
findings in 2021.

Gender equality has been central to institutional reforms in POLIS. The Centre for Gender Studies
provides leadership and visibility for E&D in research, PhD training, seminars and events. The stint
system has allowed for a more transparent and equitable distribution of teaching and
administrative roles. Progress in this area is demonstrated by the fact that from 2018 onwards the
workload balance between male and female established staff members has been equalised. All
staff involved in hiring and promotions processes undertake equality and implicit bias training. An
exit interview policy has been instituted for all members of staff (academic, academic-related, and

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
administrative). Since 2018 specific wording has been added to academic job postings to POLIS
inviting female applicants, resulting in a marked increase in female applicants. POLIS has an
Athena SWAN Self-Assessment Committee, composed of academics (3M, 3F), ranging in seniority
from postdoc to Head of Department, administrators (2F) and students (2F), a profile designed to
accurately represent the constituent parts of POLIS. Currently it is focused on assessing the career
trajectories of female early career staff. As part of the Athena SWAN application, the committee is
devising an action plan to identify initiatives to improve gender equality over the next four years.
POLIS planned to apply for Bronze status in April 2020, but this was delayed by COVID. The new
application date is early 2021.

In 2019 POLIS launched a Carers Fund which provides up to £250 (per event) towards childcare
costs to enable attendance at research events. Where appropriate, staff are encouraged to apply
for the University Returning Carers’ Scheme, which funds research support for academic staff
returning from care-related leave or a career break. The University supports staff with caring
responsibilities through the Supporting Parents and Carers at Cambridge network, University
nursery provision, and childcare salary exchange schemes.

Staff and student wellbeing is vital for creating a productive working environment. Online resources
and notice boards point staff towards relevant support services and departmental wellbeing events.
Regular PhD coffee mornings, social events (e.g. quiz nights), and an annual wellbeing day are
open to all staff. In addition, the Centres and research groups offer bespoke events for their
specific audiences.

Equality and diversity considerations have been integrated into the POLIS REF process from the
outset. All REF Committee members underwent E&D and unconscious bias training. Gender
representation was maintained, with 2 female and 3 male members. The committee conducted a
continuous impact assessment of its processes including output selection, the outcomes of which
will feed through into the department’s Athena Swan application.




                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



  3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


In line with our strategic plans, POLIS has prioritised external fundraising and the growth of income
through research grants. Both are essential for the expansion of research capacities and impact.
Since REF2014 POLIS has secured over £40M through fundraising and another £10M in research
grants.

Fundraising Income

The £40M raised from philanthropic sources has allowed POLIS to pursue its strategic goals of
consolidating existing areas of strength while making major investments in new areas. The bulk of
the money has been dedicated to public policy, funding the Bennett and El-Erian Institutes, 3
Professorships, 4 Lectureships, multiple postdocs and PhD studentships, and large research
programmes. Other philanthropic gifts, targeted at fulfilling our strategic goals, have endowed 4
Lectureships in comparative politics, 2 Gender Studies postdocs, and an annual lecture in British
politics.

A notable example of the research and impact value of POLIS external fundraising is the
Philomathia Africa Programme. Launched in 2018 by the Centre for African Studies, and led by
Branch, £1M was secured from the Philomathia Foundation to fund 8 MPhil and 2 PhD
scholarships for African students, 5 Visiting Fellows from African universities, a 3-year postdoc,
and a research programme on climate justice. Moreover, it has facilitated successful funding
applications to the GCRF, AHRC, and the British Academy. The programme has enabled the re-
orientation of POLIS’s African politics teaching and research provision towards engagement with
African universities, scholars, students, and traditions of scholarship.

Research Grants

A key strategic ambition has been to increase the scale and range of sources of grant funding, as
well as the proportion of staff securing awards. The new professional infrastructure that POLIS
established to support applications has played a vital role in achieving these ambitions. Over 50%
of permanent POLIS staff have secured grants since 2014, from over 30 different sources,
including Research Councils (e.g. AHRC, BA, ESRC, ERC), government departments (e.g. FCO,
DFID, ONS), charities (e.g. Cairns Trust, Oxfam), and foundations (e.g. Leverhulme, Nuffield,
Ax:son Johnson, Körber). Examples include:

Coyle: £1.5M. This includes funding for research on technology regulation, economic
measurement, well-being, and regional inequalities (ESRC, EPSRC, ONS, Leverhulme, NIESR,
and Nuffield).

Kenny: £1.15M: Kenny was Co-Investigator on “Between Two Unions: The Constitutional Future of
the Islands after Brexit” (ESRC, £289k); and Co-Investigator on an inter-disciplinary project
examining political and epistemic challenges to the role of experts in policy and society
(Humanities and Social Change Institute, £725k). He secured an award (£117k) from the
University’s HEIF fund, to support the appointment of a Knowledge Transfer Facilitator from 2019
to 2021.

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Runciman: £529k. Runciman was Co-PI for “Technology and Democracy” (Foundation for the
Future). This funded 4 postdocs, a visiting scholar scheme, a seminar series, and an extensive
public engagement programme.

Sharman: c£450k. Sharman is Co-PI for “Testing and Evidencing the Effectiveness of Beneficial
Ownership Checks” (DFID, £348k); and Anti-Corruption Excellence Award (Rule of Law and Anti-
Corruption Centre, Qatar, $125k).

These projects have resulted in a large range of outputs (monographs, working papers, peer-
reviewed articles). A number of them have also had a significant impact on public policy (e.g.
Coyle, Branch, Kenny, Sharman, Weller), and public engagement (Kenny, Runciman), as detailed
elsewhere in this document.

Grant-funding has been essential for POLIS impact endeavours. Three of our Impact Cases were
based on extensive grant income. Coyle’s funding awards are discussed above. Branch’s work on
energy politics in Uganda is underwritten by multiple grants, totalling over £500k. This includes an
AHRC/ESRC GCRF PaCCS Conflict Theme Innovation Award (£100k); “Fuelling Violence to
Fuelling Peace” (British Academy, £300k); and a GCRF Quality Research Funding award (£70k).
Srinivasan’s Africa’s Voices utilised seed money from Cambridge and grant funding of over £250k
(ESRC, EPSRC, DFID, Cairns Trust, Alborada Trust, Wellcome Trust) to develop new research
methods and apply them to governance practices in East Africa.

Administrative Support and Organisational Infrastructure

Research support is one of the main tasks of POLIS’s skilled administrative team of 16 people. The
department has a dedicated Research Grant Administrator who supports the full grant life-cycle,
from initial enquiry and application, through the post-award phase, to financial reporting and billing.
A School research team provides tailored grant support, assisting with the preparation of complex
applications and post-award management. The School employs Research Facilitators to advise
about funding options. POLIS researchers can submit proposals to the University's internal peer-
review process for feedback.

The Bennett Institute has significantly enhanced POLIS’s research infrastructure. A Knowledge
Exchange Facilitator provides specialised support for knowledge exchange and policy impact, and
a Communications Co-ordinator supports communications strategy. The Institute provides seed-
funding for Cambridge academics to develop projects. This has produced new cross-disciplinary
networks, including several based at POLIS, working on “well-being” (leading to a major award
from the Nuffield Foundation), and “spatial inequality and public policy”. The ESRC funding for the
part of the Productivity Institute held at the Bennett, will support a major new inter-disciplinary
network (including 8 Cambridge researchers) on “human capital and productivity.

Physical Infrastructure

Since 2011 POLIS has benefitted from a purpose-built building (2140m2 of useable space). It
provides space for each Centre, extensive public areas, and a café. Each academic unit occupies
a wing and/or dedicated area, which they configure for their purposes (e.g. the African and South
Asian Centres contain libraries). PhD researchers and postdocs have dedicated rooms (32 desk

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
spaces). The building has 7 meeting rooms and 5 additional teaching rooms for larger events
(capacity ranges from 16 to 110). The building acts as a space for displaying visual art, with
exhibitions often coordinated with research projects (e.g. on Artificial Intelligence and climate
change). Designed to facilitate social interaction and collaborative working, the building functions
extremely well as a research incubator.

Libraries, IT services, Databases, Online Journals

There are 114 libraries in the University. The University Library (UL), a two-minute walk from
POLIS, is a national Deposit Library containing over 9 million items. It provides access to
thousands of databases and online resources through its eresources@cambridge portal. Based in
the UL, Cambridge Digital Humanities utilises digital technologies to enhance and support
research. POLIS researchers have access to Departmental and Centre libraries. The Seeley
Library houses the main POLIS collection (300 seats, 95,000 volumes). There are two libraries in
the POLIS building. The African Studies Library (30,000 volumes) has a policy of buying African
published material. The South Asian Library houses an important research collection (50,000
items), encompassing monographs, serials and microfilms of Indian newspapers and government
archives. Specialized History, Law, Philosophy and Economics libraries are accessible on the
Sidgwick Site. POLIS has a dedicated on-site IT officer.




                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



  4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


Support for and Exemplars of Research Collaborations

Since 2014, POLIS has engaged in a range of successful local, regional, and global collaborations.
These collaborations, a selection of which are highlighted here, have involved fertile engagement
with individuals and groups that have further enriched the research environment.


Politics and digital technology. Several individuals and research groups in POLIS work on the
politics of digital technology. A team in the Governance and Human Rights group, led by
Srinivasan, worked with computer scientists and linguists to design and implement new digital and
computational social research methods to support citizen-led development practice in East Africa.
They have designed new data-collection techniques and research methods to assess and inform
public opinion through utilising mobile telephone networks. Srinivasan created a spin-off charity,
Africa’s Voices, which has been highly successful in translating POLIS research into practical
applications. Headquartered in Kenya, by 2019 it employed 20+ staff, with an annual income of
£870k. It supports policy development and targeted interventions with governments and
international aid actors (e.g. UNICEF, UNDP, EU, DFID, USAID, Oxfam). During the COVID crisis
Africa’s Voices has been at the forefront of efforts to disseminate reliable public health knowledge
in East Africa.

Research by Srinivasan and other members of the human rights group, collaborating with lawyers
at the University of East Anglia, contributed substantively to the UN Human Rights Committee’s
formulation of the landmark General Comment 37 on Article 21 of the International Covenant on
Civil and Political Rights, focused on the question of online assembly. Denyer Willis conducted
ethnographic research on the security practices of technology companies to analyse how they
police online content. Combining work in politics and communications studies, Grube, with
colleagues in Australia and Britain, explored how shifts in communications technologies have
changed how civil servants operate and are viewed. Coyle, working with lawyers and economists
in the UK, France, and the US, conducted very influential research on key emerging policy
challenges associated with technological developments: the regulatory challenges posed by digital
and AI; and how to measure growth in the digital economy.

Led by Browne, the Centre for Gender Studies coordinated a research project with computer
scientists, sociologists, and philosophers at the Cambridge Leverhulme Centre for the Future of
Intelligence on the gendered dimensions of Artificial Intelligence. They were invited to present their
research at public events, discuss it with policy-makers, and with senior executives from major
corporations (e.g. Amazon, Goldman Sachs, and Mastercard), in London, New York, and Hong
Kong. In 2020 new externally-funded postdocs were appointed to expand the project. Combining
queer theory, literature, and film, Wilcox has researched representations of gender and digital
technologies.

Geopolitics. A further example of impactful interdisciplinary POLIS research is provided by a major
initiative centred on geopolitics, led by Simms and Lin. The aim is to deepen engagement between
academics and policy makers, and to root geopolitical developments in historical context. The


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
programme has secured over £500k in grants and philanthropic donations, from a range of
funders, including the Ax:son Johnson Foundation, Körber Foundation, Korea Foundation, and the
UK MoD. Drawing together historians, IR scholars, economists, and policy-makers, the Geopolitics
group runs an extensive programme of academic and public events in Cambridge and London. For
example, it organises regular “nightmare” workshops, inviting scholars and policymakers to reflect
on dangerous scenarios – e.g. resource crises, infrastructure collapse, pandemics – and policy
options to prevent or mitigate them. In 2019 this programme expanded to host visiting policy-
makers from government ministries (e.g. FCO, Defence) for three-month research postings.

Simms coordinated “A Westphalia for the Middle East,” a research project, drawing on the
expertise of IR scholars and historians, that identifies lessons from international history for thinking
about policy options in the Middle East. The findings were launched at the House of Commons in
2019, and were the subject of major conferences in Cambridge and Berlin, attended by diplomats,
academics, journalists, and politicians (including then-German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter
Steinmeier and Hossam Zaki, Assistant Secretary General of the Arab League).

Engagement with users, policy-makers, public

The range and intensity of POLIS’s external collaborations have expanded considerably since
2014. In 2014 POLIS established an exchange programme for PhD students with Sciences Po
(Paris). Over a dozen POLIS students have benefitted from the scheme, and a similar number of
Sciences Po researchers have visited Cambridge. It proved so successful that in 2019 Cambridge
adopted it as a University-wide programme.

POLIS Centres are involved in numerous external collaborations. The Bennett Institute involves
senior international academics in the development and oversight of some of its research projects.
Profs Yann Algann (Sciences Po) and Danny Quah (National University of Singapore) serve on its
Advisory Council. Coyle has worked with Profs Jason Furman (Harvard), Jean Tirole (Toulouse)
and Jacques Cremer (Toulouse) on digital competition, and Prof Eli Fenichel (Yale) on natural
capital accounting. Coyle is also Co-Investigator and one of the Research Leads (for the
“Knowledge Capital” strand) for the ESRC’s Manchester-based Productivity Institute. This involves
collaboration with some of the UK’s leading economists, geographers and political scientists, to
examine the “productivity puzzle” and explore policy solutions to it. This research is supported by
the UK Government’s Department of Business, Enterprise and Industrial Strategy, and will involve
high-level engagement with policy stakeholders and businesses, as well as devolved and local
governments.

Kenny was a Co-Investigator of the ESRC’s “Between Two Unions: The Constitutional Future of
the Islands after Brexit” project, working with academics from the UK and the Republic of Ireland,
and engaging regularly with politicians, officials and media. The Institute has appointed a number
of senior policy practitioners as Visiting Fellows to deepen collaboration between research and the
policy world (e.g. Philip Rycroft, former Permanent Secretary at the Department for Exiting the EU;
Verity Harding, Co-Lead for Ethics and Society at DeepMind; Stephen Unger, former CEO of
Ofcom).

POLIS and YouGov have established a fruitful collaboration between pollsters and political
behaviour experts, resulting in the establishment of the YouGov-Cambridge Centre for Public
Opinion Research in 2017, directed by Foa. It also offers training and free access to

                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
sophisticated polling instruments for POLIS researchers, including PhD students. Coyle, Foa
and Kenny have all advised on survey questions, and Kenny helped launch its 2018 polling on
global populism, with The Guardian as media partner. Foa is currently leading several large
survey projects in conjunction with YouGov and the Bennett Institute. One of them, “COVID-19
and Subjective Well-Being,” analyses the effect that the pandemic lockdown has had on
perceived happiness. Its provisional findings – that the lockdown narrowed the gap between
the wealthy and unemployed – were covered in the national media. Another strand of research
examines cross-national attitudes to democracy. The Global Satisfaction with Democracy 2020
Report was covered widely in the international media; an editorial in The Times urged the
Prime Minister to read it. Funding from YouGov was renewed in 2019, with £400k to support
PhD scholarships.

In 2018 Simms established the Engelsberg Programme for Applied History, Grand Strategy and
Geopolitics, with the Centre for Grand Strategy in the KCL Department of War Studies. It organises
joint seminars and research projects.

Chang’s research is a foundational resource for policy makers in the Global South and he consults
regularly with policy makers and leading politicians. In this REF cycle, he has consulted with policy
makers in Brazil, Colombia, Croatia, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Finland, Ghana, Georgia, Kazakhstan,
Kenya, South Korea, Kuwait, Malaysia, Mexico, Myanmar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Africa,
Turkey, Uganda and Vietnam. In 2019 he was appointed to the Committee for Development Policy
of the United Nations Economic and Social Council. In 2016, Carlos Lopes, Executive Secretary for
the UN Economic Commission for Africa (ECA) stated, “much of ECA’s inspiration on work on
industrialisation comes from Dr. Chang.” For example, Chang’s work informed how the Correa
government in Ecuador invested in technology and development. His research runs through the
Ethiopian government’s strategic approach to economic development and his input has continued
through the administrations of Prime Ministers Desalegn and Ahmed. Chang’s influence on
industrial policy is visible across sub-Saharan Africa, often in national government’s strategic
frameworks for development policy. In Ghana, for example, John Mahama (President, 2012-17)
cited at length the impact of Chang’s research on his industrial policy.

Individual staff are active in scholarly networks. For example, Bell is a member of the Princeton
Project on Rethinking World Order; Foa is a member of the Laboratory for Comparative Social
Research, based at the Higher School of Economics (Russia); Zarakol serves on the Executive
Committee of the Program on New Approaches to Research and Security in Eurasia; Kenny is on
the advisory board for “Brexit Witness: Negotiating the Northern Ireland/Ireland Dimension of the
UK’s Withdrawal from the EU, 2016-2020”, based at Queen’s University, Belfast.

The Area Studies Centres have long-established collaborations with institutions in the Global
South, generating a steady flow of graduate students, staff visits, and joint research. These
initiatives have been strengthened since REF2014. South Asian Studies hosts fellows through the
Charles Wallace Burma Trust, established in 2014-15. Latin American Studies houses the Simon
Bolivar Visiting Professorship. The Philomathia programme (discussed in Section 3) is dedicated to
engaging with African scholars and institutions. Hamilton leads a 10-year initiative, funded by the
British Academy and the South African National Research Foundation, connecting POLIS and the
University of Witwatersrand. This funding supports the exchange of 5 PhD students and postdocs
each year.



                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
POLIS staff are active members of numerous national and international networks, working with
colleagues in academia, government, think tanks, and industry, to generate and disseminate
knowledge. Abdelrahman has consulted for UNICEF, Oxfam, and the Danish International
Development Agency. Branch has testified at the International Criminal Court. Browne was invited
to present her research on gender inequality to the European Parliament, European Commission,
and the Polish Parliament. Coyle has established regular advisory relationships as a Fellow of the
Office of National Statistics, and member of the National Capital Committee, the Chancellor of the
Exchequer’s Council of Economic Advisers, the Industrial Strategy Council, and the Economic
Statistics Centre of Excellence. Curtis served on the SSRC (New York) African Peacebuilding
Network Advisory Board; Denyer Willis was Chair of the RCUK-Conacyt (Mexico) Research
Partnerships. Foa is PI for the World Values Survey, and was a consultant for the 2016 UN World
Social Situation Report. Hussin is a member of the team preparing the inaugural ASEAN
Development Report. Kenny is a member of the Scottish Parliament External Experts Panel that
advises on the constitutional implications of Brexit. Runciman was a member of the 12-person
Independent Commission on Referendums, established in 2017. Sharman was an expert witness
at a $650 million grand corruption case in Nairobi and in 2019 conducted an external review of the
United Nations/World Bank Stolen Asset Recovery Initiative. Sloman is a member of the Research
Methods advisory group for the Department for Work and Pensions. Weller is a member of the UN
Mediation Unit Roster, one of the UK’s Stabilisation Unit’s Deployable Civilian Experts, and has
advised the UK Foreign Affairs Committee.

Since 2014 at least 75% of established POLIS staff members have been interviewed about their
areas of research expertise in the national or international media. Many write regularly for high-
profile outlets. The following examples are illustrative. Bickerton has written on European politics
for the Financial Times, Le Monde, Wall Street Journal, The Guardian, New York Times, and
Foreign Affairs. Coyle is a regular contributor to the BBC, Financial Times, and Project Syndicate.
Chang has contributed to The Guardian, New York Times, Financial Times, and New Scientist. He
has conducted television and radio interviews in over 20 countries and featured in several BBC
documentaries. Foa has written articles on democracy for the Financial Times, Wall Street Journal,
New York Times, Washington Post, Foreign Policy, and Foreign Affairs. Thompson has a regular
column in the New Statesman, and has also been interviewed on Newsnight, the World this
Weekend, the Briefing Room, and the Week at Westminster. Runciman is the chief politics writer
for the London Review of Books, and has written for the Guardian, New Yorker, and New York
Times. In 2019 he presented a BBC Radio 4 series “Rethinking Representation: Democracy in
Crisis?” A contributing editor to the New Statesman, Simms is also the President of the Project for
Democratic Union, a Munich-based think tank, and was founding President of the Henry Jackson
Society, a foreign-policy think tank.

POLIS staff are regularly awarded visiting positions around the world, consolidating scholarly
networks. Abdelrahman was a Visiting International Fellow, Stanford University (2014). Bell was
Visiting Senior Fellow at the Global Intellectual History Research School, Humboldt University,
Berlin (2019). Bickerton was a Visiting Professor at the College of Europe (2019-20). Browne was
Visiting Professor at the University of Sienna (2015). Chang is a Professorial Research Associate
in the Economics Department at SOAS (2016-present). Coyle was Visiting Research Fellow at the
Toulouse School of Economics (2016). Curtis was Visiting Senior Adviser at the International
Peace Institute, New York (2014). Denyer Willis was Visiting Fellow in the Stanford Department of
Anthropology (2017). Eilstrup-Sangiovanni was Braudel Senior Visiting Fellow at the EUI (2019).
Hussin was Visiting Professor, EHESS (2019). Kenny was a Visiting Fellow at the UCL

                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Constitution Unit and the University of Bath Policy Institute (2017). Larsson was a Visiting Fellow,
Singapore ISEAS-Yusof Ishak Institute (2017). Pedro Loureiro is a Visiting Professor at the Federal
University of Minas Gerais, Brazil. Weller was Vincent Wright Professor at Sciences Po (Paris)
(2015-16). Zarakol has been Visiting Fellow at the Nobel Institute (Oslo) and the University of
Copenhagen.

Contributions to the Research Base

POLIS scholars contribute to the Research Base in various ways:

   1. Staff and research projects shape scholarship in particular fields. The quality of research is
      evidenced by the number of prizes won by POLIS staff, the multiple languages this
      research is translated into, and the range of keynotes they have been invited to deliver.

   2. Staff are routinely invited to assess promotion cases, grant applications, and fellowships,
      for universities and research organisations throughout the world.

   3. Staff play significant leadership roles in national and international research organisations,
      contribute to professional associations, and assume significant editorial roles.

Honours

Runciman (2018) and Sharman (2019) were elected Fellows of the British Academy (joining four
active Emeritus staff, Dunn, Gamble, Hill, Mayall). Coyle (2016) and Kenny (2020) were elected
Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences. Coyle was also appointed CBE (2018), and awarded
Honorary Doctorates by Portsmouth (2015) and Bristol (2019).

Research Prizes

Since 2014 over 30% of permanent POLIS staff have won research prizes. Bell won two ISA edited
book prizes (Fletcher Prize, Historical IR Section, 2020; Theory Section Prize, 2019) (Zarakol was
runner-up for the latter in 2018). Coyle won the inaugural Indigo Prize in Economics (2017). Grube
won the Australian PSA Mayer Journal Article Prize twice (2015, 2017). In 2018 Hamilton became
the first political scientist to be awarded an A-rating for research by the South African National
Research Foundation. Kenny won the PSA Mackenzie Prize for best book (2015). Mantilla won the
ISA (Northeast) Bennett Paper Prize (2015). Sharman won the ISA Yale Ferguson Prize (2016),
APSA Jervis-Schroeder Prize (2016), APSA Outstanding Article Award in History and IR (2016),
and the ISA Francesco Guicciardini Prize for Historical International Relations (2017) (Bell was
runner-up for the Guiccardini Prize in 2018). Thompson won the Political Quarterly Bernard Crick
Prize (2017) and the BJPIR Best Paper Prize (2017). Weller won the Halsbury Legal Award (2014)
and the American Society of International Law Jus Gentium Award (2017). Wilcox won a Philip
Leverhulme Prize (2018) and Best Book Awards from two ISA sections: Theory and Feminist
Theory/Gender Studies (2016). Zarakol won the Swedish Political Science Association (SWEPSA)
IR Section “Rising Star” Award (2015).

Various POLIS-affiliated postdocs won research prizes for work conducted in Cambridge. Anievas
won the Sussex International Theory Prize (2015), BISA IPE Book Prize (2016), International
Political Sociology Best Book Prize (2017), and was runner-up for Guicciardini Prize (2017).

                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Garnsey was runner-up for the BISA L.H.M. Ling Book Prize (2020). Rosenboim won the
Guicciardini Prize (2019). Turnaoglu’s book was a Choice outstanding academic title (2017). Zacka
won the APSA Charles Taylor prize for Interpretive Methods (2018).

Translations

Since 2014 the work of 25% of established POLIS academics has been translated. Examples
include: Bell’s work on liberalism and empire (Estonian, German, Mandarin, Portuguese,
Japanese); Chang’s work on the political economy of development (multiple languages). Coyle’s
GDP (Mandarin, Russian, Polish, Thai, Korean, Arabic, Spanish); Foa’s articles on democracy
(Spanish, Mandarin, Russian); Hamilton’s Amartya Sen (Japanese, Bengali); Hussin’s Politics of
Islamic Law (Arabic); Sharman’s work on international order (Mandarin, Japanese, Turkish,
Hungarian); Simms’s work on European geopolitics (8 languages).

Distinguished Lectures and Keynotes

POLIS staff have given over 50 keynote lectures around the world. Bell delivered the Japanese
Association of Political Thought Annual Lecture (2019). Coyle delivered the Alan Walters Lecture
(2019) and the Royal Economic Society Public Lectures (2020) and Hamilton delivered the keynote
at the South African Association of Political Studies conference (2018). Kelly delivered keynotes in
Leuven, Braga, Budapest, and Aarhus, and a Birkbeck Lecture in British Political Thought (2017).
Kenny also delivered a Birkbeck Lecture (2017). Runciman gave a Director’s Lecture at the
University of Chicago Neubauer Collegium (2019), the Political Quarterly Annual Lecture (2017),
and a keynote at the League of European Research Universities Rectors meeting (2017).
Thompson gave the 2020 Leonard Shapiro Memorial Lecture (Chatham House).

Funding Assessment and Refereeing

Since REF2014 over 75% of established POLIS staff have acted as grant or fellowship reviewers
for over 25 funding organisations, including the AHRC, Arab Council of Social Research, BA,
ESRC, ERC, Leverhulme Trust, MacArthur Foundation, Nuffield Foundation, and the Royal
Society, as well as the Australian, Canadian, Czech, Israeli, Danish, Dutch, Hong Kong,
Norwegian, Polish, Swedish, Swiss, and Thai Research Councils. Curtis was a member of the
Academic Assessor Group for the ESRC-DFID competition (2014). Coyle served on the ESRC’s
Research Committee (2014) and the REF2014 Impact Panel (Unit 18). Kenny was Politics
Representative on the Leverhulme Trust Advisory Committee. During this REF cycle 100% of
POLIS established staff have refereed article submissions for academic journals, including all of
the leading disciplinary and sub-field publications. POLIS staff have also refereed manuscripts for
all the major academic book publishers.

Appointment, Tenure and Promotion

More than 50% of established POLIS staff have provided invited input into appointment, tenure, or
promotion cases at foreign universities: American University Cairo, Bilkent, Birzeit, Brown,
Chicago, Columbia, Cornell, CUNY, EUI, Georgetown, Ghent, Hebrew, Johns Hopkins, McMaster,
Michigan, Minnesota, New Mexico, Northeastern, Northwestern, Oklahoma State, Ottawa, UBC,
South Carolina, Stanford, Sydney, and Yale. Bell and Kelly advised the Institute of Advanced Study
(Princeton) on fellowship appointments. POLIS staff have advised on senior appointment and

                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
promotion cases at UK universities, including Durham, Exeter, KCL, Kent, LSE, SOAS, and
Sussex.

International Organizations and Government Bodies

Chang sits on the UN Economic and Social Council Committee for Development Policy, the Board of
the UN Research Institute for Social Development (Geneva), and is a Governor of the NIESR
(London). Coyle is Engagement Lead for the Turing Institute Economic Data Science programme,
a Senior Independent Member of the ESRC Council, and serves on the Council of the Royal
Economic Society and the Royal Society Policy Committee. Curtis served on the SSRC African
Peacebuilding Network Advisory Board (New York), the Academic Advisory Committee of the
Berghof Foundation (Berlin), and the External Advisory Group for DFID’s Building Stability
Framework. Kenny co-directed the British Academy’s “Governing England” programme, and is a
member of the Expert Panel advising the Scottish Parliament on Brexit. Baroness Smith of
Newnham serves on the House of Lords International Relations Committee. Weller serves as a UN
Senior Mediation Expert, and was a Counsel at the ICJ.

Professional Associations

Bell was Co-Convenor of the BISA Colonial, Post-Colonial & Decolonial Working Group, and
serves on the Spitz Prize committee of the Conference for the Study of Political Thought (US).
Bickerton is Chair of the APSA Europe Section book prize committee. Brooke is Treasurer of the
UK Association for Political Thought. Green is Co-Convener of the PSA British and Comparative
Political Economy Specialist Group. Hamilton is Co-Founder and Director of the Association for
Political Theory in Africa (APTA), and Convener of both the Political Theory Research Committee,
South African Association of Political Studies, and the South African NRF Advisory Panel for
Political Science (2015-16). Hussin served on the Law and Society Association (US) Programme
Committee. Larsson is a Trustee and Executive Committee Member of the UK Association for
Southeast Asian Studies. Rangwala is Research Director of the British Institute for the Study of
Iraq. Srinivasan serves on the Governing Council of the British Institute in Eastern Africa (British
Academy) and the Executive Committee of the UK Society for the Study of the Sudans. Shirk and
Wilcox serve on the Governing Council of ISA-North East. Zarakol was Programme Co-Chair for
the EISA 2018 Annual Convention (Prague), is Chair of the ISA Historical IR Section, and serves
on the ISA Governing Council.

Editorial roles

Various academic journals have been edited by POLIS staff during this assessment round:
Cambridge Journal of Economics (Chang); Government & Opposition (Thompson); Journal of
Global Security Studies (Zarakol); Journal of Latin American Studies (Denyer Willis); Modern
Intellectual History and Max Weber Studies (Kelly); Theoria (Hamilton). Edited by PhD students,
The Cambridge Review of International Affairs is based in POLIS. Bell and Brooke are Associate
Editors of the European Journal of Political Theory. Larsson is on the Executive Committee of the
European Journal of East Asian Studies. Zarakol has been elected to the Editorial Board of
International Organization. Staff members sit on the Editorial Boards of over 25 other academic
journals, including Contemporary Political Theory, Development & Change, European Journal of
Development Research, Global Constitutionalism, International Relations, International Studies
Review, International Theory, Modern Asian Studies, Politics, Review of International Studies,

                                                                                            Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Review of International Political Economy, and Security Studies. Browne has advised Cambridge
University Press on gender representation on journal editorial boards. POLIS staff play a significant
role in editing book series. Bell: Penguin Studies in Politics (Penguin); Branch: African Arguments
(Zed) and Cambridge Centre for African Studies (Ohio UP); Hussin: Asian Connections
(Cambridge UP); Kelly: Worldmaking (Cambridge UP). Zarakol: EISA/Palgrave Studies in
International Relations (Palgrave). POLIS academics serve on the Editorial Boards of over 12 other
book series. Runciman was a Syndic of Cambridge University Press and serves, as does Coyle,
on the European Board of Princeton University Press.

As this evidence demonstrates, POLIS staff are leading contributors to the field in the UK and
around the world. Since 2014 the Department has expanded considerably in size, resources,
research power, and impact. It has enacted numerous reforms and new policies, from improved
PhD training and staff mentoring to dedicated research and impact support. This document has
provided an overview of the transformation.




                                                                                            Page 23
