Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Queen Margaret University, Edinburgh

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 4 Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

                                The structure of the submitted unit

 The composition of the submitted unit has changed markedly since the submission to REF2014.
 The submission to REF2014 Unit of Assessment 4 included six researchers, all based in or aligned
 with the subject area of Psychology in the School of Arts, Social Sciences, and Management in
 Queen Margaret University (QMU). This submission includes researchers drawn from three
 Divisions across QMU as follows:
       Psychology, Sociology, and Education (Chisholm, Darling, Jones, Knowles, Mansour,
        McVittie, Sagan, Uytman, Wilson)
       Occupational Therapy and Arts Therapies (Elliot, Forsyth, Gorska, MacIver, Rutherford)
       Nursing (Tyagi)
          The cross-disciplinary nature of this unit reflects broader structural changes within QMU
 during the assessment period. Prior to this assessment period, research within QMU had been
 largely organised around subject areas and Divisions, with loosely organised University-wide
 research themes allowing for some interdisciplinary collaborations. In 2015, QMU restructured its
 research and impact activities around six new interdisciplinary research centres. One of these
 newly formed research centres is the Centre for Applied Social Sciences (CASS), of which McVittie
 is Director. CASS, brought together researchers from Psychology and researchers within other
 disciplines who conducted research on topics relating to social science The activities of CASS are
 organised around four research clusters, as follows:
    1. Firefly, the international hub for multidisciplinary research which underpins the Model of
       Human Occupation. This work has an applied focus, producing psychologically-related
       research that can directly inform health policy and practice;
    2. Memory Research Cluster, which conducts research into theoretical and applied aspects
       of human memory. This cluster takes up and extends research that in 2014 was submitted
       under a Psychology theme of cognition;
    3. Public Sociology Cluster, which advances sociological knowledge through engagement
       between academic researchers and key publics involved in social justice issues;
    4. Qualitative Social Studies Cluster, which conducts research that examines the individual
       and social meanings of experience across a broad and diverse range of activities in
       everyday life. This cluster takes up and extends research that in 2014 was submitted under
       a Psychology theme of discourse.
        Members of clusters 1, 2, and 4, are included in this submission.
          As well as promoting cross-disciplinary research, the introduction of research centres
 marked an increasing emphasis on collaborations, networks, and partnerships with key research
 users, beneficiaries, and audiences, and on incorporating the generation of impact in all research
 activities. This dual emphasis on the conduct of high-quality research and the generation of
 research impact has since 2015 been a central focus of work by researchers in CASS. Since its
 formation, CASS has aimed to produce research that has real-world application in being relevant
 to people’s lives locally, nationally, and internationally. The potential for impact is thus a key part
 of research conducted by the Centre and its members. CASS researchers work with individuals
 to promote health, well-being and social participation, and with practitioners to ensure that the
 services they deliver are informed by and reflect best practice. At the same time, they work with
 policy-makers to contribute to the development of policy that will enhance quality of service
 provision and will promote public participation and understanding of major social issues and
 challenges.




                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact during the assessment period

 In its REF2014 submission, the unit set out the following as its strategic aims and goals for
 research for the 2014 to 2021 assessment period:
 1) to consolidate the themes of discourse and cognition as primary directions for research;
 2) to increase the number of research-active staff from six to eight, with an attendant increase in
 funding applications, high-quality outputs, conference presentations, and research seminars;
 3) to embed pathways to impact in all research produced within Psychology;
 4) to maintain the (then) level of recruitment of research students;
 5) to double the amount of external funding received (£83,576 between 2008 and 2014) in the
 2014 to 2021 period.
 It also set out the following impact goals for the assessment period:
 1) to increase the number of press releases and summaries of research plans provided to key
 users and the public;
 2) to develop a database and/or mailing list of interested parties and key contacts that will enable
 focused dissemination and discussion with relevant user groups and beneficiaries;
 3) to facilitate more open-forum discussions of research findings with user groups and
 beneficiaries;
 4) to ensure that new research projects developed within the Unit include, from the beginning, a
 pathway to impact statement of how the findings from proposed research will produce impact and
 the steps that will be taken to do so;
 5) to require PhD candidates to demonstrate how their proposed projects will generate impact;
 6) to require applicants for academic posts to demonstrate that their research either has generated
 impact, or potentially can generate impact, for non-academic users.
         Although changes in the structure of the submitting unit, and in QMU’s organisation of its
 research activities, preclude any direct comparison of activities in the periods prior to and following
 the establishing of research centres in 2015, the aims and goals set out in the 2014 submission
 have been largely taken forward and met through achievements of CASS. Specifically, in relation
 to research aim #1, the previous research focus on discourse and cognition is reflected in two of
 the four CASS research clusters (clusters 2 and 4); the number of REF-submittable staff has
 increased from six to 15 (as reflected in this submission) (aim #2); in line with CASS’ focus on the
 generation of impact as a central element of research activities, pathways to impact are now
 routinely embedded in research produced within the Unit (aim #3); recruitment of research
 students has been increased, with 10 research doctoral degrees being awarded during the period
 of assessment (aim #4), and external funding received has increased from £83,576 in the 2008 to
 2014 assessment period to c. £4,300,000 in the current assessment period.

         With regard to impact, the focus within CASS on embedding impact in research activities,
 has led to impact aims #1 to #5 being treated as central elements of research conducted within
 the Centre. The extent to which impact aim #6 has been achieved is more difficult to evaluate: the
 focus on research centres as the vehicles for conducting research and generating impact has
 served to intensify research efforts but to separate these from other activities of academic
 divisions. CASS encourages Divisions to treat impact / potential impact as key elements of
 appointment to academic posts but the appointment of staff is within Divisional remit.

         Evidence of achievement of previous goals relating to the generation of research impact is
 found in the two impact case studies being submitted. Both case studies derive from research
 conducted within the Unit that was designed to address issues of direct relevance to everyday life.
 Case study 1 (Reducing dietary intake of free sugars) stems from research that examined
 everyday dietary behaviour of individuals and that sought to produce an understanding of those
 behaviours where previous research findings had been inconclusive. Case Study 2 (Reducing
 waiting times for Autism diagnosis) also stems from research that sought to address a major
 everyday issue in the form of waiting times involved in obtaining a specific diagnosis and reduction
 of the costs of delay. In each case the impact generated from the findings has led to changes in
 policy and practice, consistent with the submitting Unit’s approach to the conduct of research that

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 has everyday relevance and its focus on integrating research and impact in the research activities
 of members.

 Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact, how these relate to the structure
                       of the unit and how they will be taken forward
 The unit will continue to progress to an open research environment, embedding practices of
 producing open access research outputs, open data research, and research integrity as key
 elements in all of its activities. In line with QMU’s Easy IP (intellectual property) Policy, the unit will
 seek to maximise user engagement with its research. Future strategic aims and goals involve the
 continuation and further development of activities in the assessment period. In particular, activities
 will be focused on the following aims:
 1) to increase the number of REF-submittable staff, with an attendant increase in funding
 applications, high-quality open access outputs, conference presentations, and research seminars;
 2) to maintain the current level of recruitment of research students;
 3) to maintain the current level of external funding (c. £620,000 per annum) in the next
 assessment period;
 4) to maximise impact from all research conducted;
 5) to increase further dissemination of research outcomes and public engagement through
 regular public meetings and events.
        These aims will be taken forward by means of mechanisms and processes already in place
 to support research. Within CASS, these comprise the following:
 CASS meetings: All members of CASS are invited to attend regular meetings to discuss research
 outputs, funding applications and successes, recruitment of research students, research
 seminars, and conference presentations. They also consider funding calls and other opportunities
 from external bodies, their relevance to CASS research, and how research activities within CASS
 can be most effectively supported.
 Cluster meetings: Researchers within each cluster will meet monthly to discuss and conduct
 collaborative projects. Future discussions will include, as a priority, identification of funding
 possibilities to support such work. In doing so, they will consider funding calls and research
 priorities issued by major external funders that are relevant to the cluster and will develop and
 submit related funding proposals. Cluster meetings will also identify relevant topics of study for
 potential research students.
 Mentoring: Junior members of staff and new members of staff appointed will be offered mentoring
 from more senior researchers in developing their research plans and careers and ensuring best
 fit with CASS and cluster research priorities.
 Online resources: An online CASS site provides details of current funding calls, research
 resources, and opportunities for all members to discuss and share research plans and proposals.
 Funding: CASS annually receives funding from QMU to support research and impact-generation
 activities. All members of CASS are invited to apply for funding to support and develop their
 activities, whether in conducting new research or maximising dissemination, engagement, and
 impact from completed projects. Priority in the allocation of available funding is given to
 applications that demonstrate clear fit with CASS’ aims and goals and that will take these forward
 most effectively.
         Aims and goals will also be taken forward through academic divisions by means of
 Performance Enhancement Review (PER). Each member of staff with significant responsibility for
 research plans his / her research activities for the following year as part of the QMU PER process.
 This process ensures that each research-active member of staff has a workload that is suitably
 balanced to enable him / her to pursue research. PER is conducted by the Head of Division,
 following discussion with the Director of CASS as to the setting of individual research objectives
 within the scope of PER planning. The Head of Division has responsibility for staff developmental
 budgets and can support researchers at a local level and facilitate research activities such as
 conference attendance and travel to research meetings.


                                                                                                     Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

               Staffing strategy and staff development within the submitted unit
 This submission includes researchers from three academic Divisions within QMU. Each Division
 is responsible for the recruitment of its staff and appoints to vacancies at least in part on the basis
 of research achievements and future research potential. Each Head of Division is responsible for
 conducting the PER process with existing and newly appointed members of staff and for ensuring
 that research-active staff have a workload that is suitably balanced to enable them to conduct
 research. Heads of Division have responsibility for staff developmental budgets that allow them to
 support staff development as agreed in the course of discussions with individual members of staff.

         All existing and newly appointed members of staff are encouraged to join one or more
 QMU research centres relevant to their research interests. Those who join CASS, at all stages of
 careers, have available to them a range of forms of support for development. These include
 opportunities to share ideas and receive advice / guidance from other members, in the course of
 CASS meetings, cluster meetings, online discussions, availability of informal mentoring, and
 financial support for developing their research plans and careers.

        In addition to the support made available by the Centre itself, CASS also provides a locus
 for providing institution-wide support for the development of staff involved in research. CASS
 operates and delivers support to staff in line with QMU’s commitments as a signatory to the 2019
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. Consistent with the principles in
 the Concordat, CASS provides a supportive and inclusive research culture that enables
 researchers to develop their full potential through professional and career development. Recent
 researcher development opportunities made available by CASS have included (a) training
 sessions on the use of Research Professional and Research Fingerprint in identifying funding
 opportunities, (b) a session delivered by Professor Ian Rivers, a member of the ESRC’s Strategic
 Advisory network, on best practice in applying for ESRC funding, and (c) an open discussion
 session on developing and publishing research outputs. All staff in the unit thereby benefit from
 CASS’ provision of support in ways that reflect best practice for the development of their research
 careers.

         In July 2020, members of the submitting unit participated in the first pilot UK biennial
 Culture, Employment & Development for Academic Researchers Survey (CEDARS) to share their
 experiences of the research culture and the associated responsibilities of those who manage
 researchers. Members have also participated in a Wellcome Trust Café Culture discussion,
 allowing them to share in the development and enhancement of a research culture that fully
 reflects and recognizes their research contributions. Reflecting the activities of the submitting unit
 and other units within the University, QMU in 2020 received the 10 Year HR Excellence Award for
 the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers.
  Support mechanisms for, and evidence of the training and supervision of, PGR students
 QMU has an annual university-wide competition for funded PhD places. Successful candidates
 receive an annual stipend of £15225 for three years, together with an allocated budget of £2000
 to spend on research activities, including conference attendance, travel, dissemination activities,
 or building research networks. Available topics are widely advertised internally and externally.
 CASS annually advertises bursary topics falling within its research clusters. In each year during
 the assessment period, a CASS candidate has been successful in this competition. During the
 period of assessment, 26 research doctoral degrees have been awarded to students completing
 psychology-related study.

         Research students undertaking Psychology-related research are supervised by at least
 two members of staff belonging to the cluster in which the research project sits. Composition of
 supervisory teams is designed to ensure that students receive supervision from a researcher who
 is familiar with the topic and a supervisor who has experience of previous PhD supervision to
 completion and who can oversee progress of the project. Research students meet with their
 Director of Studies monthly and with the supervisory team at least once every four months during

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 their period of study. Research students are enrolled as affiliate members of CASS to ensure that
 they have access to all forms of support provided by the Centre. Postgraduate research is further
 supported through dedicated research space, and access to shared facilities, by expert staff, and
 by means of on-campus and electronic resources that include remote access to the QMU central
 desktop (with databases, e-journals etc.). Psychology research students are allocated desk and
 storage space in an area immediately adjacent to full-time members of staff, allowing ready
 communication between students and supervisors and serving to embed students within a
 community of researchers. All these arrangements provide research students with the facilities,
 resources and expertise necessary to ensure that they are successful in pursuing their research
 projects. During the academic year, CASS research clusters run programmes of regular research
 seminars that all staff and postgraduate students are invited to attend. Many of these seminars
 are delivered by postgraduate students, allowing them to gain experience and to receive feedback
 and advice on their studies, while also providing other students insight into the PhD process and
 familiarity with the work of colleagues. Research students in their later years of study provide
 support and informal mentoring to those coming new to the unit.

        QMU provides training and support for research students through a University-wide
 doctoral READ programme and a series of doctoral workshops. The READ programme is a 60
 credit doctoral certificate in researcher development that supports the development and
 enhancement of research knowledge, skills and ability. A series of doctoral workshops is also held
 every year to support the development and progression of doctoral candidates, including sessions
 on advanced SPSS / statistics, and workshops that prepare students for the viva and for future
 career development as researchers. All doctoral students belong to the Doctoral Students’
 Association that provides regular opportunities for peer support and runs an annual conference at
 which all research students are invited to present their work in a friendly and supportive
 environment. Research students affiliated to CASS have in recent years taken up leading roles in
 the association, and have participated in and contributed to the organisation of the annual
 conference.

         Postgraduate students in CASS also benefit from the environment and support made
 available through national networks. QMU is a Member institution of The Scottish Graduate School
 of Social Science (SGSSS), a unique collaboration between Universities in Scotland to make
 available outstanding research training to doctoral students in the social sciences. The aim of
 SGSSS is to improve both the quantity and quality of postgraduate research provision in the social
 sciences across Scotland. Students of Member Institutions have access to research expertise
 across Scotland, allowing them to take advantage of a variety of study in social sciences, as well
 as in subjects where social scientists are collaborating with colleagues from other disciplines such
 as medicine and the natural/physical sciences. SGSSS runs regular training sessions that are
 open to students from Member institutions, and an annual Summer School that includes sessions
 on interdisciplinary working; communication and networking; visual methods; policy research;
 ethnographic and participatory methods; social theory; collaborative research, and presenting
 research in innovative ways. Postgraduate students from the unit regularly attend these SGSSS
 training sessions and CASS provides support for them to do so.
            How the submitting unit supports and promotes equality and diversity
 QMU’s mission statement demonstrates a commitment to social responsibility, inclusion and
 participation. QMU is committed to promoting the general duties set under the Equality Act 2010
 of eliminating discrimination and advancing equality of opportunity and fostering good relations
 across protected characteristics. It has engaged in the Vitae “Every Researcher Counts” initiative
 and promotes good practice, for example through a Single Equality Scheme which embeds
 equality in all aspects of its research strategy. All research activities of CASS and of the submitting
 unit are conducted in accordance with this strategy. Funding, training, and other opportunities
 offered for the submitting unit are open to all members. Members of the submitting unit have been
 funded to attend events organized by Soapbox Science, a platform that promotes women in
 science and their work, and events run by bodies that include EntreprenHER and AcceleratHER
 to promote female entrepreneurship. Participation in all such activities is designed to embed
 equality and diversity in the research culture of the unit.

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          Research, dissemination of findings, and impact-related activities conducted by members
 of the submitting unit similarly reflect and implement these principles, thereby ensuring that
 equality and diversity are integrated and promoted in the full range of activities of the submitting
 unit. The submitting unit’s culture of supporting and promoting equality and diversity is reflected in
 many of the outputs included in this submission, which report research conducted with diverse
 and underrepresented groups. It is further evidenced by the extensive engagement of members
 of the unit with diverse communities and publics throughout the period of assessment, as detailed
 in section 4 below. This culture also reflects and is reflected in QMU’s Code of Practice that was
 developed for REF2021. The outputs included in this submission were selected and attributed to
 individuals in accordance with the procedures and principles set out in Part 4 of that Code of
 Practice, and an equality impact assessment was conducted to ensure that the final selection and
 attribution of outputs was fair and transparent and did not discriminate inadvertently against any
 protected group.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

                                               Income
 During the assessment period, the submitting unit has been highly successful in attracting external
 funding to conduct its research activities. Much of its work has been supported by funding from
 UK central government bodies / local authorities, health and hospital authorities, with funding from
 these sources amounting to £4,044,750. This success in attracting funding from these sources
 highlights the importance of the work conducted by members of the submitting unit for these
 bodies, and the relevance and impact of that research for policy-makers, health providers, and for
 the promotion of individual health. The submitting unit has also received funding from UK-based
 charities, other UK sources, and other sources of c. £285,000, demonstrating the range of sources
 of income made available to it during this time.
                                    Infrastructure and facilities
 Members of the submitting unit have the following dedicated facilities available to them for
 conducting Psychology-related research:
 On campus -
 (i) 2 fully equipped laboratories with 24 high specification PC computers (10 purchased in the last
 year) in total (regularly updated), each with an extensive range of software (E Prime Professional,
 PsychoPy, SPSS, NVIVO) for conducting experiments and analysis of quantitative and qualitative
 data. There are also EPRIME Serial response boxes and EPRIME Custom Expansion Kit to
 enable full use of the programme in running experiments. Additional software includes Adobe
 Fireworks, MediaLab and DiretRT, Snagit and Camtasia. We have 2 Acknowledge licenses for
 our Biopac equipment on a dedicated PC and laptop respectively. Hardware includes 12 laptop
 computers (4 purchased in the last year) (with E-Prime Professional, PsychoPy, SPSS, NVIVO),
 1 Nikon 3300d dslr camera with 18-55mm lens, 1 compact digital camera, 2 Canon video cameras,
 12 digital recorders, a range of microphones, and 10 sets of headphones. One lab has been newly
 equipped with a Biopac MP160 system with EDA100C and ECG100C modules and accompanying
 accessories (electrodes, leads). There is seating room for 24 people across the 2 labs;
 (ii) The use of these resources is supported by a dedicated 1 FTE Psychology technician. As well
 as these resources, Psychology research also has use of shared resources within QMU that
 include:
 (iii) Motion Analysis Laboratory, Human performance laboratory, General purpose laboratory,
 Audio/video recording studio, 2 x sound and video edit suites, Speech Science laboratories,
 Speech and language resource room, Audiology Resource Rooms;
 (iv) Learning Resource Centre, equipped with an extensive stock of Psychology texts and journals,
 ejournals, and access to numerous electronic Psychology and interdisciplinary databases;
 (v) eResearch, the QMU electronic research depository;
 (vi) All staff have access to researchresearch.com and Research Professional, providing the most
 comprehensive details of current funding opportunities for research in the UK and internationally.



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The use of all these resources is supported by expert staff, including IT support, a Research
 Support Librarian, an audio-visual technician and a photographic technician.
 Off campus –
 A newly developed Horizon desktop provides remote access to the QMU central desktop, all QMU
 research support units, and all electronic resources, providing immediate access for researchers
 working off-campus. All staff have access to a University provided Microsoft 365 account, which
 provides continuous access to the latest versions of the Microsoft Software Suite as well as 1TB
 of OneDrive cloud storage.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

                     Research collaborations, networks, and partnerships
 Members of the submitted unit have during the period of assessment collaborated widely with
 colleagues based in other academic institutions, as set out below.
 Collaborations, networks, and partnerships with academic colleagues
 Chisholm: Research outputs (Danube University Krems, McMaster University (Ontario), Napier
 University, Ryerson University (Ontario), University of Portsmouth).
 Darling: Research outputs (Australian National University; Polythechnic University of Valencia;
 The University of Edinburgh; University of Aberdeen; University of Adelaide; University of Leeds;
 University of London; University of Sydney; University of West of Scotland; University of
 Westminster); PhD Supervision (University of Cardiff).
 Elliot: Research outputs (AT Still University (Mesa, AZ); Humboldt University Berlin; University
 College SYD, Esbjerg; University of Essex).
 Forsyth, Gorska, Maciver, & Rutherford: Research outputs and funding (Amsterdam University of
 Applied Sciences; Boston University (Boston, MA); City University, London; Clinical Trial Service
 Unit, Oxford; Edith Cowan University (Joondalup, Australia); Institute of Psychiatry, London; King’s
 College London; London School of Economics and Political Science; Lund University (Sweden);
 Northumbria University; Saitama Prefectural University (Saitama, Japan); The University of
 Edinburgh; University College London; University of Cambridge; University of East Anglia;
 University of Florida; University of Granada (Spain); University of Manchester; University of
 Oxford; University of Ruse (Bulgaria); University of Stavanger & Oslo Metropolitan University
 (Oslo, Norway); University Stellenbosch (South Africa); University of Toronto). The extent and
 strength of these collaborations is reflected in and marked by the appointment of senior
 researchers in these institutions as honorary members of CASS.
 Jones: Research outputs (Cardiff University; Keele University; Oxford Brookes University; Tallaght
 University Hospital, Dublin; University of Exeter; University of London; University of Strathclyde;
 University of Western Australia; University of Winchester).
 Knowles: Research outputs (University of Bath; University of Stirling).
 Mansour: Research outputs (Queen’s University, Ontario; Swinburne University of Technology,
 Victoria; University of Ontario Institute of Technology;, University of Winnipeg)
 McVittie: Research outputs (Coventry University; Monash University; Queensland University of
 Technology; The University of Edinburgh; The University of Gothenburg; The University of
 Limerick; The University of New South Wales; The University of Newcastle (Callaghan, NSW);
 Trinity College Dublin; University of Queensland; University of Sydney; University of West of
 Scotland); PhD supervision (The University of Edinburgh).
 Sagan: Research outputs (Bishop Grosseteste University; University of Bedfordshire)
 Tyagi: Research outputs (Ryerson University, Ontario; University of Georgia (Athens, GA);
 University of Plymouth)
 Uytman: Research outputs (University of Aberdeen; University of Leeds, University of Strathclyde)
 Wilson: Research outputs (Lancaster University; University of London; University of Sunderland)
 Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries and audiences


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 As well as involving collaborations with academic partners, much of the research conducted by
 members of the submitted unit has been conducted through extensive and integrated
 collaborations with key research users, beneficiaries or audiences. QMU is committed to the
 Concordat for Engaging the Public with Research and was an early signatory to the National Co-
 ordinating Centre for Public Engagement (NCCPE) Manifesto for Public Engagement. QMU’s
 commitment to engagement with a wide range of audiences, and CASS’ focus on producing
 research with real-world application and relevance to people’s everyday lives are reflected in
 relationships and research collaborations with external organisations that include health and social
 care services, industry, government bodies, and others. Specific instances include the following:

 Elliot has collaborated with Street Soccer Scotland in researching how football can support people
 on their journey to security and happiness. The extent of this collaboration is reflected in a formal
 memorandum of understanding between Street Soccer Scotland and QMU for the continuation of
 this research.
 Forsyth, Gorska, Maciver, & Rutherford have enjoyed extensive collaboration and integration with
 health and social care services (NHS, social care, education) as well as with government bodies.
 The children’s inclusion and participation research programme has very longstanding relationships
 with the Royal Hospital for Sick Children, NHS Lothian, and City of Edinburgh Council Additional
 Support for Learning services, as well as ongoing productive relationships with other education
 authorities across Scotland. Work within schools has focused on developing a cross-sector
 research programme, and has made significant contributions to policy and practice of Health and
 Educational staff acting to improve the practices of professionals working to improve the social
 and educational participation of children with special educational needs and disabilities. Materials
 derived from their research have been fully adopted within schools and across education
 authorities. Relatedly, they have a longstanding relationship with the Scottish government,
 particularly the Scottish Government Mental Health Directorate and Education Directorate, and
 their associated staff and ministers.
 Jones has collaborated extensively with partners in the toy industry (#toylikeme, Lottie dolls,
 Museumand, Zuree, Buddy Bear Friends), conducting research that can inform the design and
 production of dolls and toys to promote identity and inclusivity for members of underrepresented
 and marginalized groups. These extensive collaborations have led to the production of dolls and
 toys that promote the representation and inclusion of children from groups that are traditionally
 underrepresented and marginalized and that will thereby enhance health and well-being of
 children in those groups.
 Mansour is a member of the Scottish Institute for Policing Research (SIPR) and has collaborated
 extensively with Police Scotland in conducting research into psychological factors involved in
 lineup procedures and in devising best practice for promoting confidence and effectiveness of
 eyewitness identification.
 McVittie has collaborated with the Scottish Refugee Council in researching experiences of asylum-
 seekers and refugees based in Scotland, and the understandings of organizations that support
 these groups and the views of local communities towards them. He has also collaborated with
 CrossReach (Counselling Service) in devising and applying methods for evaluating the delivery of
 group psychotherapy services.
 Sagan has collaborated with a number of mental health self-help and campaigning groups
 including PD in the Bin and Lothian Bipolar Group. She collaborates with Kilifi University, Kenya
 on the Maranhi Secondary School project for street kids and The Life Foundation’s mental health
 projects in Slatina, Romania. Sagan’s co-edited book the Recovery Letters was nominated for
 World Book Night and distributed in care homes, youth centres, colleges, prisons, mental health
 groups and other settings, generating a number of self-help / reading groups and raising
 awareness of the therapeutic impact of reading and writing.




                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Wider activities and contributions to the research base, economy and society (including
   collaboration or integration with external organizations, and engagement with diverse
                                  communities and publics
 The submitted unit’s approach to embedding engagement with key research users and publics in
 its research, and to the generation of research impact, is evidenced by a range of activities and
 contributions during the period of assessment. These include the following:
 Darling has delivered engagement presentations as part of the Cabaret of Dangerous Ideas in
 Glasgow and Edinburgh (as part of the Edinburgh Fringe) and also separately from this as part of
 ‘Bright Club’.
 Forsyth, Gorska, Maciver, & Rutherford have engaged throughout the period of assessment with
 external organizations and diverse communities and publics. Their activities include
      work with external partners, such as the THRIVE Initiative, Edinburgh, Health and Social
         Care Partnership, Edinburgh, NHS Lothian, and third sector organisations, service user
         and carer collective advocacy groups, to promote well-being among those facing mental
         health challenges. This work has led to service design for people with complex mental
         health needs.
      development of and participation in the Wayfinder research initiative, with partners across
         the strategic Mental Health and Wellbeing Lead, Edinburgh Health and Social Care
         Partnership, NHS Lothian, Third Sector Providers, service user and carer collective
         advocacy. This collaboration has supported commissioning and delivery of support and
         accommodation services (supported housing and visiting support) for people with mental
         health needs.
      participation in longstanding clinical relationships with the WORKS clinical service for
         vocational rehabilitation, NHS Lothian leading to initiatives designed to support people with
         complex mental health problems to attain and maintain employment.
      collaboration with the Care of the Elderly medical team, at the Royal Infirmary Edinburgh
         and the TrakCare team, at NHS Lothian, and with several NHS trusts in England, including
         North East London Foundation NHS Trust, London and South West London and St
         George's Mental Health NHS Trust and Gloucestershire NHS trust, which has informed
         practice development and research capacity development of professionals.
 Jones’ collaborations with organizations in the toy industry have been reflected and taken up in a
 range of activities designed to promote social inclusion and participation of marginalized groups.
 These have included
      work with #toylikeme, a not-for-profit organisation, to promote representation of disability
         in the toy industry, to boost self-esteem of children with disabilities, and to grow open
         minds. Jones ran a stall at the Edinburgh Science Festival in April 2019, using #toylikeme
         resources, and on 7 December 2016 appeared with Rebecca Atkinson of #toylikeme on
         BBC 2 television’s ‘See Hear’ to discuss the objectives of this collaboration.
      work with Lottie dolls, a company that manufactures figure dolls that demonstrate to all
         children that they can achieve anything they set out to accomplish. This collaboration has
         led to leaflets that accompany the dolls’ packaging, e.g. Mia (released June 2017), Hayden
         (released August 2018).
      collaboration with Zuree dolls, a brand that manufactures figure dolls that are designed to
         promote diversity and show all girls they are truly beautiful regardless of their ethnicity.
         Jones presented in a public symposium with Zuree dolls on Black Dolls: The Power of
         Representation event on 6 October 2018, an event held in partnership with The National
         Trust Museum of Childhood, Sudbury Hall and The National Lottery Collecting Cultures
         fund. This publicly attended event included talks by guest speakers and a panel discussion
         and Q&A about the importance of Black dolls, toys, games, characters in children’s books
         and identity in childhood.
      an evaluation for Buddy Bear Friends, a social enterprise that delivers early interventions
         for friendships in schools.
      collaboration with the Anti-Bullying Alliance, leading to a seminar series in 2017 that
         consolidated and developed further links between academics, policy-makers, anti-bullying
         charities, and education professionals with regards to the issue of bullying in schools.

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        These seminars in turn led to an agenda for research and related theory, practice, and
        policy for the medium-term future in the UK and to the establishment of the UK-wide School
        Bullying Research Network.
 Mansour’s membership of the Scottish Institute for Policing Research (SIPR) and collaboration
 with Police Scotland has led to
      dissemination to Police Scotland of findings from her policing-relevant research
      collaboration in the production of research materials relevant to eyewitness identification
        procedures derived from the VIPER (Video Identification Parades Electronic Recording)
        system
      a planned networking SIPR event to be held by QMU
      a planned conference to be held with Police Scotland at QMU
      recruitment of a PhD student to pursue research into missing persons
 Wilson has delivered talks at the Edinburgh International Science Festival and the Midlothian
 Science Festival.
 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline
 Much of the research conducted by members of the submitted Unit has involved collaborations
 with researchers from other disciplines. Specific examples of interdisciplinary research include the
 following:
 Forsyth, Gorska, Maciver, & Rutherford have worked with researchers in the fields of clinical
 sciences, medicine, occupational therapy, psychiatry, public health, and social care in conducting
 the research and activities described above.
 McVittie has worked with researchers in the fields of social work and art therapy in conducting
 research into the experiences of asylum-seekers and refugees and the delivery of group
 psychotherapy respectively.
 Sagan works collaboratively with researchers who are experts by experience, i.e. psychiatric
 service users with long histories of mental ill health. Her work is based on mentoring survivors of
 the psychiatric system as they develop their autobiographic academic work. Two of these, Drew
 Walker (Glasgow University) and Alice Evans (Lancaster University) are now in the final stages of
 practice based PhDs and are also contributors in a forthcoming (2021) anthology edited by Sagan
 Tyagi has worked with researchers in the fields of computational neuroscience, psychology,
 roboticists, arts and humanities. Currently he is a co-applicant and a collaborator of the ongoing
 Scotland Chief Scientist Office’s Rapid Research in Covid-19 (RARC-19) project, as a member of
 a team including researchers from the fields of psychology, physiotherapy, occupational therapy,
 and nursing.
                                    Indicators of wider influence
 Indicators of wider influence include the following:
 Journal editorships
 Maciver is on the Editorial Board of the British Journal of Occupational Therapy
 Mansour is on the Editorial Board of Forensic and Legal Psychology.
 McVittie is on the Editorial Board of the British Journal of Social Psychology, and Global Journal
 of Psychology Research: New Trends and Issues. He has acted as Guest Editor of British Journal
 of Social Psychology, and Guest Editor of Journal of Community and Applied Social Psychology.
 Tyagi is on the editorial board of Journal of Creative Thinking.
 Fellowships
 Darling is a Fellow of the Psychonomic Society.
 McVittie in 2019 was awarded Fellowship of the American Psychological Association (APA) and
 Fellowship of APA Division 5 (Quantitative and Qualitative Methods) in recognition of his unusual
 and outstanding contribution in the field of psychology.




                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Tyagi has been a fellow of the British Neuroscience Association (BNA) and the Federation of
 European Neuroscience Societies (FENS) since 2019 for his work in the field of Cognitive
 Neuroscience.
 Prizes
 Elliot in 2014 was awarded the Elizabeth June Yerxa Award from the Division of Occupational
 Science and Occupational Therapy at the University of Southern California, Los Angeles,
 California, USA. This prize marks the contribution of one of the visionaries of occupational science
 and is awarded annual to an individual with excellent potential to make a valued contribution to
 the profession.
 Membership of national and international committees
 McVittie is
     member of the International Committee, APA Division 5 Society for Qualitative Inquiry in
        Psychology
     member of the recently constituted APA Member Panel, a Panel set up to advise the APA
        on preparing for the future and on new initiatives to be pursued.
     member of Scientific Committee, International Psychological Applications Conference and
        Trends
     member of International Scientific Committee, World Conference on Psychology,
        Counselling and Guidance
     member of Executive Committee, International Society of Critical Health Psychology.
     external research consultant/advisor to five international universities (National and
        Kapodistrian University of Athens, University of the Aegean, University of Crete, University
        of the Peloponnese, University of Western Macedonia) in recognition of which he has been
        appointed to the external registry of each institution.
 Rutherford is
     National Advisor in Autism for the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists
     Consultant member of the SIGN 145 guideline group
     Invited member of the International Association of Logopaedics (IALP) autism committee
         (2017-19)
     Invited member of the Scottish Government round table on autism in schools
 Invited keynotes and presentations
 Members have given the following invited keynotes and presentations:
 Darling:
       Invited presentation at ‘The Mind’s Spatialization in Humans and Non-humans’ workshop
         in Nice (2019)
       Invited seminars: Heriot University, University of Stirling
       Invited article in special issue of Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences on
         Spatialization
 Elliot:
       invited presentation to graduate seminars at Karolinska University (2015); Brunel
         University (2016); Scottish Social Sciences Graduate Summer Series (2018, 2019, 2020);
         forum discussion at 2019 Society for Study of Occupation: USA conference in Arizona.
 Forsyth:
       invited presentations to College of Occupational Therapists Specialist Section: Housing
         (2015); Scotland National Autism Implementation conference (2019); World Federation of
         Occupational Therapists (2014)
 Jones:
       invited keynote to Scandinavian Social Psychology Association annual conference (2014);
       invited presentation to Bias-Based Prejudice International Conference, Paisley, UK
 Maciver:



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     invited presentations to Canadian Association of Occupational Therapists (2017); Scotland
      National Autism Implementation conference (2019); World Federation of Occupational
      Therapists (2014)
 Mansour:
    invited presentations to the School of Applied Social Sciences, Edinburgh Napier
      University; Cognition in Complex Environments Group, Stirling University; the Applied
      Face Recognition Workshop, Stirling University; Centre for Cognitive and Neural Systems,
      University of Edinburgh; South East Eyewitness Network, Greenwich University.

 McVittie:
     invited presentations to Department of Psychology, Coventry University, Department of
        Psychology, Heriot-Watt University, Department of Psychology, The University of
        Edinburgh.
 Rutherford:
     invited keynote to Scotland National Autism Implementation conference (2019);
     invited presentations to Asia Pacific Autism Conference (2019); Autism in Initial Teacher
        Education Conference (2020); Educational Institute of Scotland Conference (2019);
        Scottish Autism Strategy conferences (2015, 2016, 2017); Scottish Government Autism
        Conference (2018)
 Sagan
     invited presentation Alone Together Again: A Second International Pan-disciplinary
       Symposium on Solitude in Community, Szczecin, Poland (2020)
     Invited presentation : Film Medicine : University of Edinburgh (2020)
 Tyagi
     invited presentation at the annual meeting of the Internal community of practice (ICoP),
        London (2019)
     invited presentation at the 2nd Marconi Institute of creativity conference, University of
        Bologna, Italy (2016)
     Invited presentation at the CogNovo Colloquium, University of Plymouth (2015)
 Wilson:
     invited presentation to Department of Psychology, University of Sunderland.
 Refereeing academic publications or research proposals
 Darling has reviewed
     grant applications for the Economic and Social Research Council
     manuscripts for Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences, Frontiers in Psychology,
        Frontiers in Human Neuroscience, Memory and Cognition, Memory, Cognitive
        Development, Neuropsychology Review, Journal of Experimental Psychology - General
 Forsyth has reviewed
     manuscripts for the British Journal of Occupational Therapy
 Gorska has reviewed
     manuscripts for Aging & Mental Health, Aging and Society, British Journal of
       Occupational Therapy, International Psychogeriatrics.
     book for Routledge
 Maciver has reviewed
     manuscripts for British Journal of Occupational Therapy, Child Care Health and
       Development, Developmental Medicine and Child Neurology.
 Mansour has reviewed
    grant applications for the Economic and Social Research Council, National Science
      Foundation (US); reviewed manuscripts for American Psychologist; Applied Cognitive
      Psychology; Canadian Journal of Experimental Psychology; Journal of Cognitive

                                                                                        Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Psychology; Journal of Experimental Psychology: Applied; Law and Human Behaviour;
        Psychology, Crime, and Law; Psychology, Public Policy, and the Law
       conference submissions for the American Psychology-Law Society (AP-LS).
 McVittie has reviewed
    grant applications for the Medical Research Council
    manuscripts for British Journal of Health Psychology, British Journal of Social Psychology,
        Discourse & Society, European Journal of Social Psychology, Journal of Community and
        Applied Social Psychology, Journal of Language and Social Psychology, Psychology and
        Health, Philosophical Psychology, Qualitative Health Research, Qualitative Psychology,
        Social and Personality Psychology Compass
    book proposals for the American Psychological Association, McGraw-Hill, Pearson
        Education, Polity Press, Sage Publications, Wiley-Blackwell.
 Rutherford has reviewed
       manuscripts for BMJ Open Quality, Developmental Medicine and Child Neurology,
        Research in Autism Spectrum Disorders.
 Tyagi has reviewed
     manuscripts for the Journal of Creative Behaviour
 Wilson has reviewed
     grant applications for the Economic and Social Research Council
     manuscripts for BMC Psychology, Journal of European Psychology Students, Memory and
        Cognition
     book for Oxford University Press.
 Co-operation and collaborative arrangements for PGR training
 Members of the submitted unit contribute to training sessions organised and run by the SGSSS
 for the training of postgraduate students across all Scottish Universities. In 2018, McVittie
 delivered a workshop on micro approaches to discourse analysis, and in 2020 Jones delivered a
 workshop on social justice in PhD research, both as part of the SGSSS ‘Spring into Methods’
 series.
 Developing best practice in undertaking research that is reproducible
 In taking forward QMU’s commitment to the Concordat for Research Integrity, all members of the
 submitting Unit are encouraged and facilitated to act in accordance with the Concordat and to
 embed the principles of the Concordat in their research. Members are advised and encouraged to
 participate in the researcher training sessions provided by the UK Office for Research Integrity.
         Members of the submitting Unit also conduct their work in accordance with the Concordat
 on Open Data Research, where possible making their research data available for use by others.
 Mansour and Wilson routinely deposit research data and materials on the Open Science
 Framework site, a platform that is designed to promote and enable collaboration among
 researchers. Other members of the submitting Unit deposit data sets in the publicly accessible
 QMU data repository, eData.
 Forsyth, Gorska, Maciver, & Rutherford have permissions/agreements in place to utilise the
 following datasets in conducting collaborative work with other researchers:
       Clinical outcomes data from NHS Lothian Vocational Rehabilitation services.
       Clinical data from NHS TrakCare, NHS Lothian, with access to data on older people’s
        demographics and outcomes.
       Data from the UK Millennium Cohort Study (>19,000 participants, UK data Service, Office
        for National Statistics and Centre for Longitudinal Studies (CLS) at the Institute of
        Education, University of London and NatCen).
       Data from the Scottish national pupils census (includes every school child in Scotland,
        ScotXed service, ScotXed Unit is part of Education Analytical Services Division within the
        Learning and Justice Directorate of the Scottish Government).


                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        (1) The Scottish Morbidity Record – Scottish Mental Health and Inpatient Day Case Section
         (SMR04) and (2) the Scottish Government Social Care Survey (SGSCS) data. These are
         two national datasets linked for first time in the Scottish Safe Haven, a Scottish Network
         that provides researchers across Scotland with access to anonymised data sets for
         purposes of data searching and collaborative research.
 They have also developed a web-site with QMU research derived materials made available to
 other researchers - https://www.thirdspace.scot/circle/education-resources/
 Tyagi has developed and curates a website making resources with QMU research available in
 open source format. This includes questionnaires, performance indices, and an e-book. Website
 - https://www.cpcpr.org/resources & https://www.cpcpr.org/critical-creativity
 The collaborations and activities outlined above all demonstrate the contributions of members of
 the submitting unit to the research base, economy and society.




                                                                                           Page 14
