Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Cardiff University
 Unit of Assessment 28: History
 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 The unit is part of the School of History Archaeology and Religion (SHARE) within the Arts,
 Humanities, and Social Sciences (AHSS) College at Cardiff University. SHARE is an autonomous
 unit within the AHSS College with shared standards of disciplinary integrity, interdisciplinary
 dialogue, and collective commitment to equality, diversity, and inclusion. Comprised of 48.5 FTE
 staff from three research groups (History, Ancient History, and Religion), the unit contains
 research of global relevance with foundations in local issues and concerns. This multi- and
 interdisciplinary foundation to the unit, beyond the dimensions of conventional humanities
 research ‘silos’, has remained at the centre of its research activity throughout the REF cycle and
 continues to shape our research strategy for the future.
 1.1 REF Strategic Goals
 The current REF cycle has been defined by a collective effort to meet and extend our goals from
 REF2014 within and across the component parts of the unit. These centred on five key
 components:
       1) Expansion of our research through further appointments and strategic investment with
          geographical, chronological, and interdisciplinary priorities in mind;
       2) The deepening and broadening of local, national, and international collaborations
          which can inform our impact strategy;
       3) An increase in research outputs to encourage research innovation;
       4) Strengthening of our PGR community through recruitment and training (Section 2)
       5) Enhancing opportunities for grant capture and research planning, especially at the
          Early Career Academic (ECA) stage (Sections 2.1 and 3.2).
 Below we cover realisation of the first three components of our strategy, via the following initiatives
 and developments:
 1.2 Strategic Investment and Development
 The unit continues to aim for both globally recognised and locally relevant specialisms.
 Interdisciplinary, cross-unit strengths in the School include Transnational and Transcultural History
 (Murray-Miller, Rapley, Williams, McAuley, Deeg, Baker-Brian, Dessì); the Atlantic World
 (Doddington, Granick, Herrmann, Machielsen, Garrard); Wales and the World (Ward, Bowen,
 Wright, Loeffler); the Social History of Medicine (Cock, Heimann, Loughran, Waddington, Walker,
 Totelin, Malik, Tougher, and Llewellyn-Jones); the history and current place of Islam (CSIUK,
 Munnik, Murray-Miller); Warfare from Ancient to Modern Contexts (Rawlings, Gilliver, Nicholson,
 Passmore), and Religion from Transregional Perspectives (CLARC and CHRA).
 Our staffing priorities in this period have ensured geographical and chronological expansion
 across the unit (Herrmann, Kindersley, Murray-Miller, Llewellyn-Jones, McAuley) while affording
 a much broader chronological and interdisciplinary vision of research (e.g. Granick on Jewish
 History/Religion). We have successfully expanded international collaboration to connect the unit’s
 research across the globe while also remaining deeply connected to local and national issues:
 for instance, the ScienceHumanities initiative (Waddington) has produced globally resonant
 research spanning STEM and Humanities through workshops in Europe and North America while
 working closely with local representatives within the medical community (NHS) and across
 disciplines (Cardiff School of English, Communication and Philosophy; Duke University
 Symposium January 2020, inclusive of biomedical scientists Prof Priscilla Ward and Prof Tom
 McLeish).
 Desired expansion and consolidation of research support and provision from the PGR level
 through to senior staff has ensured that grant capture and research planning have expanded
 significantly, with major grants being achieved at the ECA stage (Doddington, Cock, Machielsen,
 Herrmann) through to professorial attainment (Deeg, Gilliat-Ray, Lambert, Passmore,

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Waddington). As noted below (Section 3) this has also resulted in a significant increase in research
 income, especially at the ECA stage. Through these gains and new directions, the unit has
 strengthened connections with external partners to ensure an enduring public relevance, ranging
 from Cadw and English Heritage at a national level along with our award-winning ‘SHARE with
 Schools’ and ‘CAER Project’, to the Bihar Heritage Development Society (Deeg) and Erasmus
 Plus scholarly exchange programmes in Moscow (Ryan, Murray-Miller).
 The unit has actively developed new research directions with interdisciplinary and present-minded
 concerns at the forefront. Through strategic hiring and the retention of staff previously employed
 on fixed-term contracts, new strands of research have emerged which have extended the
 geographical, cultural, and chronological remit of the unit. For instance, themes of research have
 emerged around Eastern Europe (Heimann, Ryan, Murray-Miller); Environmental History
 (Griffiths, Passmore, Waddington, Williams), and the Digital Humanities (Murray-Miller,
 Waddington, Lambert). New themes of inter-departmental, interdisciplinary research have
 emerged with new appointments, strengthening our exploration of the social, religious, and
 political environment of the Ancient Near East and Western Asia (McAuley, Llewellyn-Jones,
 Tougher, Fragoulaki, Baker-Brian), South Asia (Hegarty, Brodbeck, Deeg, Greaves, Anagol) and
 East Asia (Rapley, Ferlanti, Deeg, Dessì) across geographical, cultural, and periodic boundaries.
 Expansion during this period has maintained particular focus on ECA support and advancement.
 The appointment of ECAs to permanent contracts with significant (£3,000 pa) research stipends
 and a reduced teaching load has been essential to ensuring that these staff have been able to
 continue their innovative research with full institutional support. This has allowed many
 (Doddington, Herrmann, Kane, Machielsen, Murray-Miller, Williams) to publish full-length
 monographs within this assessment period. For instance, during the course of a three-year
 Leverhulme postdoctoral position (for the project ‘Fragile Faces: Disfigurement in Britain and its
 Colonies, 1600-1850’), Cock completed the research and manuscript for her 2019 monograph. In
 some instances (Cock, Murray-Miller, Williams) staff were appointed on temporary contracts (e.g.
 teaching cover or research fellowships) created with the intention to support their transition into a
 permanent position.
 Indicative of the success of this hiring strategy is the successful promotion of staff hired at the
 ECA stage from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer within this assessment period (Benham, Doddington,
 Kane, Machielsen, Murray-Miller, Williams, McAuley). Permanent positions in Ancient History
 (Fragoulaki, McAuley) have added depth and breadth to our research culture by extending subject
 expertise well-beyond the traditional Greco-Roman narrative into the Near East and North Africa.
 Where grant capture and supported leave have afforded fixed-term hiring of new staff, ECAs (e.g.
 Walsh) have been extended the same suite of research support and active incorporation into the
 research culture (e.g. giving ‘Work in Progress’ seminars).
 Strategic investment since REF2014 has ensured that the volume of research outputs per FTE
 has continued to increase, with particular emphasis on the publication of first monographs from
 ECAs and major research initiatives from established members of staff. This assessment period
 has seen staff publish a total of more than 670 outputs ranging across the chronological and
 geographical spectrum of historical research and religious studies. This represents an increase of
 18% from REF2014 (551 in REF2014). Support for research staff across career stages has also
 ensured publication in globally recognised journals and world-leading publishing houses.
 Our open research strategy aims to ensure that all staff have ORCID IDs and that the full text of
 all journal articles are deposited into Cardiff University’s open access digital repository (ORCA)
 within three months of acceptance. The School’s open research culture has benefitted from the
 University becoming a signatory to the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment,
 which promotes the assessment and evaluation of scholarly research beyond simplistic journal
 impact factors and rankings with a view toward maintaining the highest standards of research
 integrity. These values have helped shape the management of outputs for the REF2021 exercise
 by ensuring a transparent process for assessing the quality of research through peer review that
 is not bound by existing measures of outlet significance. Beyond REF considerations, the School
 has developed an open research environment by making as many research outputs as possible
 freely accessible using alternative publication outlets, alongside the traditional journals in our


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 fields. Cardiff University Press was established in 2015 with open access publications as a
 cornerstone of its operations, including the Journal for Late Antique Religion and Culture.
 Newly developed specialisms have generated interdisciplinary collaborations both nationally
 and internationally while allowing existing networks to expand. Exemplifying these networks are
 cross-department clusters for research such as CLARC (Centre for the History of Late Antique
 Religion and Culture, (Tougher, Baker-Brian, Lössl, McAuley, Llewellyn-Jones)); the CHRA
 (Centre for the History of Religion in Asia (Anagol, Rapley, Dessì, Hegarty, Brodbeck, Deeg,
 Greaves)), and the Hellenistic Centre Cymru (CCC), which partners with scholars from Swansea
 and Lampeter universities and has created a centre for excellence for Hellenistic studies in Wales.
 The Centre for the Study of Islam in the UK (CSIUK) – (Gilliat-Ray, Munnik, Malik, Ali, Ahmed,
 Timol, Sidat, Vince) is leading the study of Islam and Muslim communities in the UK and has its
 own national and international collaboration network. The significance of CSIUK has recently been
 recognised by Gilliat-Ray receiving an OBE for services to Education and Muslim Communities in
 Britain.
 Interdisciplinarity continues to occupy a central place in the planning and support of research
 within the unit. As part of SHARE, we are constantly encouraged to incorporate interdisciplinarity
 into research planning and activities as part of a multidisciplinary environment. Further strategic
 hiring has been undertaken in order to ensure research (and research-led teaching) is conducted
 at the nexus of disciplinary specialisms (e.g. Granick for Jewish History and Religious Studies;
 Llewellyn-Jones and McAuley in Hellenistic and Ancient Persian history and the near east).
 Interdisciplinary research seminars operate not only with the encouragement of attendance across
 the School, but with attendance from departments across the university and region: for example,
 in the Cardiff-Swansea French History seminar series, or the seminar series of the CSIUK (School
 of Social Sciences). Research workshops and summer schools have also fostered interdisciplinary
 working: for instance, with the School of Journalism, Media and Culture, the School of English,
 Communication, and Philosophy, and the University’s special collections around the digital
 humanities. Cross-school interdisciplinarity can be highlighted by the ScienceHumanities project
 (detailed below), which involves the schools of Medicine, Social Sciences, Law and Politics, and
 English, Communication, and Philosophy.
 Initiatives across the unit have helped to expand the reach and resonances of this research.
 The ‘Exploring the Past’ Lecture Series (Webster) links academic research to free, public lectures
 within the Cardiff and area community (especially adult learning centres) through regular talks
 from History staff and PGR students (e.g. Jewson gave the second Eileen Younghusband annual
 lecture). These have ensured that our research profile remains relevant and outward-looking
 for the wider public. This has also been a reciprocal process, with public interest and societal
 change helping to shape research strategies. These priorities resonate in other parts of the unit,
 whereby research has translated directly into outward-facing engagement. For instance, CSIUK
 developed Cardiff University’s first Massive Online Open Course (MOOC1) entitled “Muslims in
 Britain: Changes and Challenges”. Since 2014, 20,000 learners from around the world have taken
 this online course, aimed at improving and stimulating public debate about Islam and Muslims in
 Britain and providing a vital forum for the shaping of research directions within the unit (Ali). The
 MOOC’s success and popularity are reflected in its use by RE teachers, which in 2019 led to the
 further allocation of resource and Continuing Professional Development (CPD)/Professional
 Learning (PL) tailored for statutory Key Stage 3 (KS3) Religious Education (RE) classes across
 England and Wales (or MOOC2RE).
 1.3 Impact Strategy
 Our impact strategy and case studies have been realised through multi-level support. The School’s
 Director of Research and Impact (DoRI Mulville), and our School Research Impact Coordinator
 (RIC Best), ensure the full realisation of the impact of our research and are supported by a wider
 framework of resources within the University and College and Research Support levels. Impact is
 a standing agenda item on Research Committees and is part of individual staff review and
 development discussions, with an emphasis on identifying impact opportunities and allocating
 resources for their development. Strategic support has included an allocation within the workload
 model for impact active staff and funding, both at a central and School level, for existing and


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 developing impact. Our strategy also ensures that impact training, both internal and external
 training (e.g. consultant Mark Reed), is available to all staff and our PGR and UG students.
 The key elements of our impact from the last assessment period have been strengthened further
 through strategic hiring of a Welsh-medium post in Welsh History (Loeffler) and the continued
 encouragement of collaboration between the History/Archaeology-based CAER Project (Wyatt).
 This has provided a platform for further work with inter-generational community groups and local
 museums (Ward), school (Wyatt), and lifelong learners (Webster). Webster’s appointment to a
 permanent T&R position within this REF cycle has ensured the continuation of these
 collaborations with high-quality associated research. Our strategy has been to build on the existing
 and emerging impact successes represented in 2014, whilst expanding our impact agenda to
 include cross-university collaborations with colleagues in cultural studies and museum cultures.
 Case Study 1: Using a staged and reflective approach, this REF cycle has seen the CAER
 Project, built on a co-participatory model, activate a traditional excavation as a force for social
 and economic change by integrating research and skillsets across History and Archaeology. The
 project works with socially and economically disadvantaged communities in Cardiff to improve
 cultural and social participation and welfare. The project has benefitted from the Cardiff University
 International Initiative Fund (£10,000) and the Cardiff University International Collaboration Fund
 (£6,000), which helped to generate several AHRC grants (c.£30,000) that supported the early
 years of the project. Successful National Lottery Heritage Fund applications (£1.3m), together with
 match funding, have provided a project budget of £2.1m for the development of a heritage centre,
 heritage trails, and a programme of research excavations that will transform our understanding of
 the monument and make this a centre of excellence for the local community.
 Case Study 2: Lambert’s Attic Inscriptions Online (AIO) has made English translations of the
 inscriptions of ancient Athens available online in open access, unlocking for a wide readership rich
 insight into the history of this well-documented city and the lives of its inhabitants. Before AIO was
 launched in 2012, this material was mostly accessible only to specialists who had good knowledge
 of ancient Greek and Latin. AIO has made Attic inscriptions accessible to a wider public around
 the world, including in locations remote from traditional centres of learning, with impacts on
 teaching at HE and School levels, on other educational websites and on museums.
 Case Study 3: Ali’s theological and social scientific research has had a profound and wide-
 reaching effect on the understanding of organ transplantation within British Muslim communities.
 His work has enriched the British Muslim community’s views on organ transplantation within Islam,
 demonstrating that it can be Halal, and enabling them to make an informed choice about donation
 for themselves and their loved ones. His research has benefitted wider Muslim organisations,
 including BIMA and NHSBT, and influenced their response to policy changes. The work has also
 helped Muslim professional groups, including Imams and Scholars, formulate their discussions of
 organ donation, allowing sustained and meaningful change within Muslim communities.
 Case Study 4: Cross-university collaborations as part of developing a new College network on
 ‘contested histories and museums’ led to shared areas of impact. Within the context of major
 political, economic, and technological change for the global heritage sector, Kidd has led a series
 of collaborative interventions, facilitating more innovative, purposeful and critical museum
 practices as a result. This case study focuses on one strand of that activity: work with Historic
 Royal Palaces (HRP) and Newcastle University on the Tower of London poppies installation and
 its legacies, 2014-2018. This work has challenged practices of commemoration and
 remembrance, changing the conversations that happened in response to that installation through
 the Why Remember? learning programme. The work has also had significant impacts on HRP’s
 own research capacity.
 Beyond these case studies, ongoing research by Heimann and Ryan (on the Velvet Revolution of
 1989 and the October Revolution of 1917) has highlighted complex, multi-voiced pasts. Support
 from College and School impact funds enabled them to create new ways for public and
 professional practitioners to engage with these often sensitive and provocative legacies with a
 view towards establishing impact case studies for the next REF cycle. The impacts include 1)
 recovering lost voices to reduce conflict and encourage reconciliation in local and national arenas
 2) establishing new spaces to encourage engagement with personal pasts, and 3) recasting

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 histories through education. These have helped to ensure that, well beyond REF2021, the unit’s
 impact is shaping current, culturally relevant debates grounded in local, national, and international
 concerns.
 1.4 Research Innovation
 A key priority since REF2014 has been the production of research which creates new research
 paradigms. In History, major publications have helped to lead cross-disciplinary research.
 Monographs and major articles on the role of the body in shaping notions of identity and locality
 (Kane), disfigurement and disability (Cock), age and labour (Doddington), and hunger in colonial
 contexts (Herrmann) have placed Cardiff History at the centre of historical dialogues with
 medicine, mental health, and scientific thought. Many publications have made compelling cases
 for seeing conventionally ‘siloed’ subjects within a more expansive geographical setting, with
 monographs and articles ranging from French North Africa (Murray-Miller) to the Maginot Line
 (Passmore), trans-European exiles (Williams) to medieval diplomatic practices (Benham). This
 research has also been actively responsive to the most pressing cultural debates of the day, with
 publications responding to and informing anniversaries of the Russian Revolution (Ryan) and
 Czech experience of 1968 (Heimann), and directly informing current debates about the Second
 World War (Strobl), coalition government dynamics (Kirkup), and British legacy in India (Anagol).
 Our staff are active at the boundaries of disciplinary practice, working to produce publications
 which span history and literary studies (Waddington), history and archaeology (Wyatt, Nicholson),
 and many others. A clear example of this is Waddington’s ScienceHumanities initiative, which has
 created an essential forum for cross-disciplinary dialogue across History, Literary Studies and
 STEM fields through workshops, conferences, and associated publications. By prompting
 common research questions between these traditionally siloed disciplines, this initiative has
 helped to develop novel ideas of ‘best practice’ in articulating the understood boundaries of
 disciplinary ethics and research aims.
 In Ancient History, a focus on Ancient and Byzantine gender, sexuality, science, reception and
 identities has developed. Llewellyn-Jones’ work on Hollywood and Antiquity has resulted in a
 published monograph (Screening Antiquity, 2019) and his sourcebook on The Culture of Animals
 in Antiquity (2018) is the most complete study of animals in the ancient world. Totelin’s research
 into the ideas and structure of ancient medical knowledge and teaching is identified in a number
 of publications and the co-written volume on Ancient Botany that will be a standard text for the
 study of ancient science going forward. Tougher’s monograph on Roman Castrati shapes our
 understanding of gender, masculinity and intersexuality in the Roman Empire. This trend towards
 paradigm shifting monographs is evidenced by Llewellyn-Jones’ new work to be submitted in the
 next REF cycle on Persians: The Age of Kings (2022), which will be published by Wildfire books
 (Hatchett). This will be a ground-breaking study of the place of Iran in Ancient World studies by
 overturning the traditional Eurocentric vision and concentrating on Persian/Iranian sources.
 Major publications in Religion reflect the breadth of scholarship within the section in terms of
 geographical, linguistic, and cultural scope, pressing at the conventional boundaries of the
 field. Brodbeck’s complete translation of the critical edition of the Harivaṃśa (2019), the “appendix”
 to the monumental Indian epic Mahābhārata, is supplemented by a monograph-long study of his
 translation. This research underlines the religious historians’ focus on translating or re-translating
 and scholarly annotating key religious texts. Deeg’s translation and commentary (in German) of
 the so-called Nestorian stele of Xi’an (2018), an important document of the medieval Christian
 church in China, equally ensures that these globally relevant texts are more widely known and
 understood. Modern concerns are reflected in Dessì’s work on religious globalization (2019) and
 the place of Japanese religions (2017). This complements and expands work already being
 undertaken in the CSIUK. All these broader themes remain in dialogue with research within
 SHARE as a unit. Historicization and interrogation of current debates over globalization, cultural
 transmission, and the transfer of knowledge in transnational contexts sitting at the core of many
 of the unit’s activities.
 Recognition of the quality of this research by funding bodies has facilitated a rise in our external
 income (Section 3), resulting in an increase of more than 300% in the value of applications
 made since the last assessment period and a total income increase of more than 10%. This

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 rise in successes has been led by major grants for ECAs (approximately 1/3 of successful
 applications), which testifies to the strength of the unit’s strategy of investment in new talent and
 ideas which speak to local, national, and global concerns.
 1.5 Future Strategy
 Our research plans for 2021-28 will focus on sustaining the vitality of our research culture while
 developing new venues for innovation across disciplinary boundaries. This will include:
    •   Investment in further career progression for the ECA intake from this assessment
        period. Priority will be given to mentoring these staff and creating forums for ongoing
        research.
    •   Increasing applications to and capture of grants. This will be aided through the
        improvement of internal peer-support practices and the creation of cross-disciplinary peer
        review panels to aid in grant writing and mentoring. Particular attention will be paid to
        ensuring broadened access across EDI considerations and career stages (see Section 2).
    •   Expanding the PGR community through strategic investment in funding pathways and
        collaborations beyond the AHRC DTP (see Section 2).
    •   Staffing investment in geographical and thematic areas currently underrepresented
        with a view towards facilitating collaboration across specialisms (e.g., material culture/art
        history; contemporary history/race and gender studies).
    •   A commitment to supporting under-represented groups in the academy through
        appointments and research activities.
    •   Developing existing international collaborations through further support of multi-
        institutional initiatives both within and beyond the academy.
 Our goals aim to develop the best practices of this REF cycle, ensuring that the unit remains not
 only attuned to existing strengths but also responsive to the widening demands of UK HE. It will
 help to create a longer-term vision for the unit focused on the creation of world-class research at
 all career stages, embedded in a research culture which is open, creative, and shaped by a sense
 of local, national, and global responsibility.
 Section 2. People
 The consolidation and expansion of the unit since REF2014 has been led by an ongoing
 commitment to producing world-leading research built on the Equality, Diversity, & Inclusion (EDI).
 Continuing our trajectory in ECA appointments since 2013, changes in staffing at both the ECA
 level (Cock, Doddington, Herrmann, Kane, Kindersley, Murray-Miller, etc.) and senior level
 (professorial appointments, e.g. Heimann, Griffiths) have accompanied the departure of long-
 standing members of staff through retirement or other reasons (Jones, Loach, Walker, Trombley,
 Johnson). Staffing policy has been driven by considerations of both sustaining areas of recognized
 strength (e.g. Loeffler for Jones in Welsh History), but also ensuring that new staff are participants
 in the most recent trends in the field as demonstrated by the unit’s focus on transnationalism and
 interdisciplinarity. This has helped to ensure that changes in staffing bring innovative and
 challenging perspectives to the study of history and religions.
 2.1 Staff Development and Training
 The induction procedure at Cardiff University is tailored to ensure standard practices of
 excellence across the University and subject-specific guidance, ensuring that new staff
 contribute to the research and teaching environment within a supportive structure (see Institutional
 Statement/REF5a). Peer Mentoring within the Unit ensures new staff have a point of contact to
 navigate new administrative demands and research cultures. A suite of programmes initiated by
 Cardiff University but spanning the Welsh university network includes Welsh Crucible (which aims
 at professional development for researchers at a collaborative level) and the Cardiff Futures
 programme, a development programme sponsored by the Vice Chancellor for rising stars in the
 University. Both schemes are tailored with impact in mind, aiming to ensure that staff are
 outward-looking and engaged with UK communities and beyond. History has also been successful


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in supporting initiatives to encourage ECA engagement with their research across media outlets,
 including a BBC New Generation Thinkers position (Cock). Within the wider arc of professional
 progression, senior members of staff (e.g. Llewellyn-Jones) are continuing their development
 through the Professorial Leadership Programme, which is aimed at refining and developing their
 research and leadership roles.
 Within the broader commitments of Cardiff University, the unit has embedded its practice within
 the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. Cardiff
 University was among the first UK universities to be awarded the European Commission HR
 Excellence in Research Award (HREIR) in 2010. Commitment to the updated Concordat was
 renewed in September 2020. Support for research is provided through an individual research
 budget of £1,000 for each member of staff, regardless of contract status, which can be used to
 support research travel, resource acquisition, conference organisation, impact generation, and
 other endeavours. This ensures a robust foundation for research initiatives across the unit
 independent of external grant acquisition.
 A clear pathway to progression through research is underpinned by a recognized, transparent
 system of research leave. All staff, regardless of career stage, are guaranteed twelve months’
 research leave within an established rota system and supported in their application for institutional
 funds for teaching replacement. A recent internal review of the Research Leave scheme has also
 aimed to ensure flexibility and widening inclusion in the provision of this leave: all staff will be
 incorporated into a single rota-based system and provided with the option of two six-month periods
 of leave or one twelve-month period of leave within every rota cycle. This rota ensures that all staff
 (both ‘Teaching & Research’ and ‘Teaching & Scholarship’ contracts) are provided with the time
 and space necessary to think about and produce high-quality research, impact, and collaborations.
 Internal support for research leave has been enhanced by access to the University’s competitive
 research leave scheme, which provides teaching cover and a £3,000 research stipend for up to
 twelve months. Since 2014, numerous colleagues have benefitted from this enhanced scheme
 (Thacker, Passmore, Malik, Deeg, Brodbeck, Baker-Brian). The extension of the University
 scheme in 2019 to appoint Disglair (‘Brilliant’) lecturers on 2-year lectureships has bought more
 sustained investment, not only allowing Bowen and Murray-Miller an extended period of research
 leave (which has allowed both to complete monograph projects for this cycle) but also seeing the
 appointments of new ECA staff (Kilburn-Toppin) on an 18-month post with a tailored programme
 of training and mentoring and a £3,000 individual research bursary.
 All career pathways are structured around a clear progression from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer,
 Reader to Professor. The School runs workshops on promotion to support staff, and the School
 Promotions Panel mentors candidates on their applications. Since REF2014, the unit has seen
 the promotion of ten Lecturers to Senior Lecturer, seven Senior Lecturer to Reader, and five
 Professorial appointments (both from readerships and direct hires). Many of these (e.g. Webster,
 Heimann, Ryan, Wyatt) will continue Impact-related initiatives in the coming REF period. This
 compares favourably with the previous REF cycle, which saw five, two, and five promotions
 respectively. This has been sustained and supported alongside consistent consideration of the
 demographic composition of the unit: for instance, the History professoriate comprises three
 women (Griffiths, Heimann, Nicholson) and two men (Passmore, Waddington).
 2.2 EDI Development and Support
 The commitment of the unit to EDI has been recently recognised through our 2019 Athena
 SWAN Bronze Award, which was conducted as a collaborative effort across SHARE by committee
 (chaired by Machielsen). Feedback from the November 2018 submission emphasised the value
 the unit had placed on shaping research leave policies around maternity leave (research
 allowance has been doubled for those returning from adoption and maternity leave) and provision
 of support funding for those needing childcare on Open Days and external events (e.g. Ward).
 More broadly, all staff are required to complete an online training course on EDI every three years.
 This course is updated annually to ensure the most current issues surrounding EDI (for instance,
 transphobia) are incorporated and that they align with the UK’s broader EDI legislation. More
 intensive in-person training is required for all line managers and those involved in the REF
 process. Training on ‘Understanding Unconscious Bias’ has also been made mandatory for any

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 staff involved in recruitment, selection, and REF assessment. In line with the School and
 University’s institutional strategy The Way Forward 2018-21 COVID Recast planning, staff will also
 be engaging in critical reassessments of our approach to research and teaching grounded in
 ‘decolonisation’ initiatives. This ensures that our research and teaching will continue to be at the
 forefront of critical approaches to intersectional concerns. Through rigorous processes such as
 these, Cardiff University has been on the Stonewall Index of Top 100 Employers since 2010, and
 the top UK university on the list since 2016, renewed in 2020. The School’s Research Ethics
 approval form ensures that EDI issues are considered and treated carefully in all activities. Where
 necessary, plans are developed collaboratively through the Research Committee and individual
 researchers, with follow-up reviews as needed.
 The wellbeing of staff and students remains central to the practices of the unit. Annual
 development reviews for staff are conducted alongside annual assessments of workload and
 direct communication with line managers. SHARE is currently revising its Workload Allocation
 Model in order to ensure equality and equity in all aspects of professional profiles. PGR support
 is likewise shaped by these principles, with regular supervisory meetings complemented by check-
 ins with postgraduate tutors to ensure individual wellbeing and the continued vibrancy of the
 postgraduate community. This has proven especially important in the context of COVID-19: the
 continuation of online seminars and PGR events has been overseen by staff (Ryan; Griffiths) to
 ensure wellbeing and community cohesion.
 2.3 PGR Community Development
 Much of the vitality and initiative of the unit within this assessment period has arisen from the
 successes of our postgraduate community. Postgraduate supervision remains central to
 career-development for staff as they progress beyond ECA status. Co-supervision of AHRC DTP
 students has allowed these staff (Doddington, Kane, Williams, Ali), to gain skills and experience
 necessary to develop a supervisory profile, including AHRC and Cardiff-led training in
 postgraduate supervision. Strategic hiring at the professorial level has also helped to ensure a
 growing number of PhD supervisions and the unit’s role in shaping innovative research: for
 example, Llewellyn-Jones’ research and extensive publications record on the Ancient Near East
 has drawn in 4 PhD students since his arrival in Cardiff in 2016.
 International studentships are actively pursued across the unit to help ensure students remain
 embedded in global scholarship: for instance, Lössl has secured funding for a research
 assistantship (German Academic Exchange Service) and a visiting scholarship (Scientific and
 Technical Research Council of Turkey) which will allow further postgraduate exchanges at the
 international level. The innovative CUROP (Cardiff University Research Opportunities Placement:
 see Institutional Statement/REF5a) scheme has created a direct line of research activity and
 development for undergraduate students inclined towards research-oriented career paths,
 overseen by Cardiff historians with defined projects. CUROP Projects across the unit have
 facilitated student research ranging from European intellectual networks (Murray-Miller) to Late
 Roman Cities and Mints (Tougher and Baker-Brian). CUROP students frequently pursue further
 postgraduate research after building these research skills. One case is Dan Jewson (PhD Year3),
 whose research on the interior world of the asylum has been informed by the approaches to the
 everyday he acquired as part of a CUROP project in collaboration with Cardiff Story Museum. He
 has also played an important part in gathering evidence and testimonials for our CAER Project
 (Impact Case Study 1).
 Postgraduate Research students [PGRs] are actively integrated into the research environment
 through standing invitation to research seminars and research-oriented workshops. PGRs are
 involved in module teaching and planning as a means of ensuring training for post-study
 employment. They are supported to gain relevant skills and build peer-networks through a two-
 year training-to-teach programme which leads to HEA membership. Cardiff PhD students are
 encouraged to be interdisciplinary and internationally minded in their research: PhDs have
 been supervised across disciplinary and national boundaries (e.g. Griffiths co-supervising with
 Law/Politics/Modern Languages; Waddington co-supervising with English; Heimann co-
 supervising with colleagues in at the KU Leuven and University of Antwerp).



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Postgraduate Research is underpinned by committed research funds. All PGRs are provided
 with £1,050 to support their research across the fee-paying period. We have also responded
 proactively to the COVID-19 crisis by allocating PGRs up to £100 to facilitate remote research.
 The Postgraduate Research Bursaries (£200) instituted in January 2019 afford further support for
 postgraduate research and international conference attendance through a competitive application
 scheme. The History Department has privileged access to the Bill John Travelling Scholarship
 which provides £2,000 in bursaries to support archival research. This support has ensured that
 PGR students could undertake innovative initiatives: for instance, financial support from within the
 unit provided funding for the ‘Late Antique, Early Medieval and Byzantinist Network’ meeting on
 22 May 2020, organised by Cardiff University postgraduates and connecting this broad
 chronological group of scholars across Wales and Southwest England. This took place amid the
 COVID-19 lockdown, and therefore online, facilitating attendance from scholars as far afield as
 Australia and North America. The unit maintains dedicated postgraduate research facilities
 which afford individual workspaces in a private environment while also ensuring that they share
 research space with fellow postgraduates and History staff. In addition to encouraged attendance
 at research seminars, PGRs are able to attend weekly surgeries with the Director of Postgraduate
 Research. All Postgraduate support within the department is closely monitored to ensure both
 student satisfaction and that every opportunity for career development is encouraged. The
 recording of (at least) monthly meetings with supervisors, regular progress reviews (after the first
 3 months and biannually afterwards), and a discipline-tailored induction process ensure that any
 training, career advice, and supervisory development can be addressed. Further training is
 available to our PGR students through the University’s Doctoral Academy. Its extensive annual
 programme is informed by the Researcher Development Framework (RDF) developed by Vitae
 and focusing on four key areas: knowledge and intellectual abilities; personal effectiveness;
 research, governance and organization; and engagement, influence and impact. Access to further
 training is available to our students through GW4, which runs training events and workshops
 across the universities of Bath, Bristol, Exeter and Cardiff.
 Postgraduates are also encouraged and supported through School and Departmental
 infrastructure, to conduct further training and undertake their own outreach initiatives. For
 instance, Dan Jewson (Waddington PhD Supervisor) has collaborated with the Cardiff Story and
 Glamorgan Archives to put together public exhibitions about Whitchurch Hospital, including public
 talks. A 2016 conference on ‘The Archaeology of the Latin East’ was co-organised across History
 and Archaeology students (Nicholson, Kane, Benham). Elizabeth Howard (Bowen/Machielsen)
 has founded the Cardiff University Society for Women Graduates, through which Postgraduate
 Bursaries are distributed to encourage women in the humanities. Ewan Short (Tougher) and Ben
 Morris (Benham) along with other PGR students from SHARE Archaeology and Bristol, Exeter
 and Reading Universities, have been instrumental in re-igniting the South West and Wales Late
 Antique Network as part of a region-wide PGR network. The first sponsored lecture for the network
 was held at Bristol on 20 November 2019 and an online colloquium was held on 22 May 2020 with
 more than fifty attendees from across Europe. With another event scheduled for August 2020, this
 network exemplifies how an interdisciplinary approach across the school supports PGR networks
 and cross-disciplinary research as part of career development.
 The vitality of this postgraduate research environment can be seen in the ‘post-degree’
 successes of this community. A total of 45 doctoral degrees were awarded during this period.
 Among those who have pursued academic careers, many have published monographs (e.g. Rhys
 Morgan (Bowen supervisor) and Chris Millington (Passmore)); taken on postdoctoral positions
 (e.g. Beth Jenkins at Essex (Ward)); Anna Field as Reinhart Fellow at Appalachian State
 University (Williams); and received awards for their research (e.g. Pierre Gate’s De Re Millitari
 Gillingham Prize (Kane/Nicholson)). PGRs have also made significant contributions outside the
 academy, entering research and teaching roles across a broad geography: for instance, Greg
 Leighton (Benham) now a project assistant at Malbork Castle Museum, Prague; Ulrika Vihervalli
 (Tougher and Baker-Brian) is a Research Assistant on the Leverhulme Trust-funded project
 Women, Conflict and Peace: Gendered Networks in Early Medieval Narratives (c. 330-735) at
 Sheffield and Nadia Randle (Westgate) is Collections Manager at Royal Greenwich Heritage
 Trust. Susanna Towers (Baker-Brian) has published a monograph on her PhD research with
 Brepols Publishers (2019).

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Our objective since REF2014 has been to create an enabling research culture in which regular,
 high-quality funding application and ‘grant literacy’ is the norm for all staff. Of the 48.5 FTE
 submitted for this exercise, 30 FTE have been successful in attaining external income during this
 REF cycle, of which more than a third have been ECAs. The overall success rate for this cycle
 sits at 32%. As detailed in Section 3.2, this success rate has been improved through an expanded
 support structure and strategic investment in early career attainment, project development
 support, expanded research infrastructure, and encouraging interdisciplinary innovation.
 3.1 Infrastructure Support and Development
 These achievements have been supported by an emphasis on professional services support.
 SHARE has appointed a permanent Research Support Officer tasked with managing research
 data, application processes, and grant after-care through a single email account and office space.
 There is a monthly research funding round-up to publicise funding information and training
 opportunities and provide details of upcoming initiatives and deadlines both within and beyond the
 University. One-on-one mentoring systems, particularly partnerships created between ECAs and
 established scholars, allow staff to develop and progress funding goals and to ‘think project’ as
 well as to consider fellowship, network, and other externally funded options. Professorial
 colleagues are encouraged to seek larger grant opportunities (£50,000+ applications) which build
 on their pre-existing track record. Research Clinics are held every semester for early-to mid and
 mid-to late-career scholars. These are based on peer-to-peer discussion of current grants and
 ‘pipeline’ grant applications and are intended to ensure the mix of grant holders and grant
 applicants. Research planning and support of this kind has been crucial to our overall increase in
 grant income and the wider, more equitable distribution of research income across career
 stages and disciplines.
 Further expansion of resources has been evident in unit- and university-level investment in
 library resources. SCOLAR (Special Collections and Archives) was established in 2005 as a
 repository for rare books and manuscripts within Cardiff University, with free access to all
 researchers (including those without university affiliation). The collection boasts extensive
 holdings dating back to the 15th century and one of the largest collections of Welsh-language
 materials in the UK and globally. Extensive holdings in relation to Devolution movements across
 the UK, Welsh travel since the 16th century, Welsh emigration to Patagonia and Australia, and
 Welsh-language ballads have proven instrumental in publications by our scholars (e.g. Jones,
 Loeffler) and for historians across the UK. In the course of this REF cycle, SCOLAR has benefitted
 from further expansion directed by History-based colleagues drawn from our broadening
 expertise. Through Heimann’s direction, SCOLAR now boasts one of the largest Czech research
 collections outside the Czech Republic. This includes items that are extremely rare, but also some
 (e.g. official published ‘Stalinist’ show trial transcripts in Czechoslovakia and Hungary in 1949-
 1953) which are unique in being gathered in one place. These were highlighted in Heimann’s
 major international conference ‘Generation 89’ (22 November 2019), attended by global scholars
 of Czech and Cold War history.
 3.2 Income and Project Development
 History has benefitted substantially from external income wherein University-level investment in
 ECA support (reduced workload, mentoring systems, and internal review processes) has helped
 new colleagues towards the award of major, highly competitive research fellowships. Among these
 are Leverhulme Fellowships for Doddington, Herrmann, and Machielsen, all of whom were hired
 within this REF cycle. Granick’s interdisciplinary ‘Jewish Country House’ project (AHRC;
 £265,516) was awarded shortly after her appointment as an ECA and will now facilitate an
 extended period of research leave which connects her research across History and Religious
 Studies. Substantial research grants have also ensured a broadening of our international
 collaborations: a grant from the ESRC for ‘The Japanese Scientist in Japan and in the World’
 (Rapley; £23,000) has helped to develop connections with major Japanese research centres (e.g.
 the Japanese Science Museum and Sokendai Research Centre); a British Academy Newton
 Mobility Fund grant (Williams; £9,900) has aided in collaboration with South African institutions
 (University of the Witwatersrand; Cape Archives); and further grants for the ScienceHumanities

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 project (ESRC & Wellcome Trust; £41,546) have facilitated connections with German (Bremen)
 and North American (Duke) universities. Finally, the public-oriented initiatives driven by Wyatt and
 Ward (the Dusty’s WW1 Project (AHRC; £12,000); CAER Hillfort Project (NLHF, see ICS 1); CAER
 Studio (AHRC, £78,060) have continued to embed history in the local community. These have
 also been collaborative undertakings across the School, incorporating researchers from Ancient
 History and Archaeology.
 Ancient History has seen a significant expansion of international networks and funding to ensure
 global reach and resonance. The Hellenistic Centre Cymru (Llewellyn-Jones and McAuley) was
 awarded support from the Cardiff University International Initiative Fund (£10,000) and the Cardiff
 University International Collaboration Fund (£6,000), which helped to generate several AHRC
 grants (c.£30,000) that sustained the early years of the project. Externally funded projects include
 Lambert’s above-mentioned, three-year AHRC funded project ‘Attic Inscriptions in UK Collections’
 (AIUK), 2017-2021 (total amount of £411,262), which will create a unique, freely-available, and
 comprehensive resource on a body of source material for Ancient Greek History. Llewellyn-Jones
 and MacDonald (£9,000 from the British Institute of Persian Studies) held a day-long workshop
 entitled Persika: A Day of Persian Things (27 November 2019), with papers that examined the
 history, reception and identity of ancient Persians. Scholars attended from across the UK, Europe,
 and Israel in sessions that were open to the public and attended from across the South West and
 Wales.
 Religion has seen significant success in acquiring funding and support for its international
 initiatives, grounded in the unit’s imperative to speak to global issues at a local level. The research
 group has benefitted from the continued support of the largest private donor to Cardiff University:
 £848,000 from Mr. Yousef Jameel which secured the continuation of the CSIUK’s ‘Jameel
 Scholarship Programme’. This has provided MA, PhD and postdoctoral research opportunities. In
 addition, Mr Jameel has supported the creation of the Jameel Research Programme, supporting
 three projects with a cumulative value of £604,000 (Timol, Gilliat-Ray). One example is Sidat’s
 research ‘Understanding Imams’, which employs innovative demographic and human
 geographical analysis alongside considerations of theology and social history to better situate
 imams within a highly politicised cultural climate. Patmore and Lössl have secured an award of
 £200,000 from the AHRC; Deeg and Dessì £156,200 for a two-year Marie Curie project
 researching Buddhist communities in South Africa. Hegarty and Greaves were awarded a
 Leverhulme grant of £80,100 to explore the earliest art historical representations of the Indian epic
 Ramayana. Ali’s research on Muslim organ donation and activities to create impact was supported
 by Cardiff University innovation and impact funding (£1,500) and the community funding scheme
 of the NHS-BT (£2,500). Munnik secured a grant of £1,200 from the ESRC for ongoing research
 into representations of UK Muslim communities in the media. Deeg has gained 30,000 Euro from
 Erfurt University and c. 100k Euro from Ruhr-Universität Bochum for his secondment as research
 fellow to continue his work on the medieval Buddhist travelogue of Xuanzang. Lössl has received
 £35,800 from the Leverhulme Trust for his collaborative project with the University of Freiburg
 researching the opus of the Late Antique Assyrian writer and philosopher Tatian.
 Through these infrastructural investments and strategic support across all career stages, the unit
 has strengthened its research positioning significantly for the future. Research planning for
 the coming REF cycle includes focused ‘digital writing retreats’ to ensure research continuity and
 community in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak; devoted and informal peer-review groups for
 applications and drafts to facilitate external funding and research success within and across
 departments. Drawing on best practice within the unit, the sharing of successful applications and
 progression in terms of grant scale and ambition will be central to our infrastructural strategy for
 the future. Further support is being planned to equalise the distribution of successful grants on
 gendered terms. Currently, 2/3 of successful grants are attained by male members of staff. As
 such, significant efforts are in development to encourage and support female staff through peer
 review systems, mentorship and the raising of grant awareness. This will function alongside
 University-level initiatives to support staff to engage in grant acquisition through blind peer-review
 and analysis by EDI leads.




                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy, and society
 This assessment period has been one of deepening local engagement and widening international
 impact for the unit. With the continued broadening of staff specialisms across geographical and
 chronological dimensions, network development, collaboration, and engagement opportunities
 has been crucial to planning and support. The broad structure of the School (SHARE) and the
 interdisciplinary element of the unit has also ensured that widening engagement/impact has been
 a core component of our activity for all staff.
 4.1 Our Collaboration: Local, National, and International
 Regular collaboration with national cultural institutions has ensured that Cardiff research is
 shaping policy and cultural considerations across Britain (including the National Museum of Wales
 (Llewellyn-Jones) CADW/Historic England (Griffiths; Bowen), the National Assembly of Wales
 (Wyatt). Roles held by members of the CSIUK have also helped to contribute to this broader
 regional and national relevance. This includes panel memberships of Muslim community councils
 and centres (Muslim Council of Wales: Ali, Gilliat-Ray, Timol; Muslim Council of Britain: Gilliat-
 Ray, Timol; Mosques and Imams Advisory Board: Timol). Ali’s research and advisory work on
 organ donation in the UK Muslim context has had and will continue to have direct impact on policy
 making and the transformation of perceptions of organ donation in the communities concerned.
 With institutional support having developed through formal collaborations (e.g. Cardiff/KU Leuven
 and       emerging      Cardiff/Bremen     through   ScienceHumanities)       and     International
 Initiative/International Collaboration Funds, the capacity of staff to work globally has risen
 significantly. Since 2015, connections to Eastern European universities and public institutions
 have been expanded through Ryan’s Erasmus+ International Credit Mobility Programme initiative,
 which has afforded an extended exchange programme with the State Academic University for the
 Humanities at the Russian Academy of Sciences in Moscow. This instituted a set of staff
 exchanges (Thacker, Murray-Miller, Ryan; Strobl; Barton (T&S post)) between the two universities
 as part of a larger commemorative programme for the centenary of the Russian Revolution,
 incorporating public talks and visits to commemorative sites in Moscow. While this exchange was
 completed in 2017, it has since extended to further collaborations between scholars in Moscow
 and Cardiff (including Murray-Miller’s ongoing collaborative publications on comparative
 revolutions in modern Europe). This public-facing international collaboration is also evident in
 Heimann’s ‘Czechoslovakia100’ initiative to mark the formation of the Czech state, incorporating
 diplomats, policymakers, academics, and students into a series of symposia and conferences from
 May 2018. November 2019 marked 30 years since Czechoslovakia’s Velvet Revolution. Based on
 the networks fostered though the underpinning research, Cardiff held a Witness Seminar which
 brought together individuals who were actively involved in the 1989 revolution. The event included
 participants who have never before spoken openly of their witnessing, bringing new and minority
 voices to the table.
 The centenary of the First World War has also been central to both the international and local
 dynamic of Cardiff’s public presence and collaboration. Thacker had a lead role in ‘Flanders and
 Wales: A First World War Symposium’, operated in partnership with the Welsh Government,
 Regional Government of Flanders, and ‘Wales Remembers 1914-1918’ commemorative
 organisations. It brought together experts from both areas in a series of public talks to consider
 the resonance of the First World War across the arts, history, and literature. This was supported
 with funds from both Cardiff University (£5,000) and from the Regional Government of Flanders
 (£5,000). The public talks have been further reinforced by Thacker’s publication of articles in
 Cymru’n Cofio/Wales Remembers 1914-18, which was distributed to all Welsh politicians
 (Assembly Members through MPs/MEPs/House of Lords) as well as all museums, secondary
 schools, archives, and Tourist Information boards in Wales. Wider European collaboration has
 built on departmental strengths in interdisciplinary research and strength across career
 stages. For instance, Benham’s ‘Voices of Law’ international network (Co-Investigator
 Leverhulme Project 2016-18) worked across Norwegian, Swedish, and Danish institutions to
 understand legal terminology across long chronologies from the early medieval to early modern
 periods. This has operated across disciplines such as Law (University of Copenhagen), Language
 (Frisian Academy, Leeuwarden), and Archaeology (Cardiff), and afforded Benham’s further work


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on Nordic Civil Wars (funded by the Nordic Research Council) incorporating the universities of
 Oslo, Emory, and Muenster, Aarhus, and others.
 Ancient History strives to be a leading voice in the shift away from research constrained by
 traditional boundaries and is instead driven by a concentration on 21st-century geopolitics as a
 vital forum of engagement. This has been showcased in Fragoulaki’s international network, with
 scholars from Germany, US, UK, Brazil and Greece, working on Thucydides Global. The project
 employs a multi-disciplinary approach to measure the impact of Thucydides in current political
 thought, as well as exploring new forms and media of the author’s modern reception, such as
 performance and online games. The first international workshop ‘Thucydides Global’ was held at
 the Institute of Classical Studies, London, on 30 April 2019, drawing on the very topical idea of
 history as performance. Further international-facing collaboration, and one that is breaking
 boundaries on traditional gender narratives, is highlighted by Totelin’s work with the Cyprus
 Research Promotion foundation and colleagues Stavourla Constantinou and Aspasia
 Skouroumouni (University of Cyprus) which has resulted in work on ancient and modern
 motherhood and breastfeeding. While Lambert’s work with Greek and Latin Inscriptions Online
 has led to partnerships with the University of Heidelberg (Germany), Duke and Tufts Universities
 (USA), it has also been recognised by the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation (US) for its efforts in
 creating an accessible public archive of translated inscriptions.
 Extending international collaboration and networks beyond Europe have also been crucial
 to the expansion and development of the department during this period: from South Africa to
 Chile, Japan, India, China to the United States and Canada. The ScienceHumanities initiative has
 expanded to incorporate Duke University (US), with annual joint symposiums to facilitate
 interdisciplinary dialogue. This was supported by a Wellcome Trust grant (£29,000) and a £43,000
 investment from Cardiff University. Herrmann’s AHRC Networking Grant for ‘Geographies of
 Power’ has facilitated three international conferences spanning Cardiff and the United States from
 2019-2020, jointly organised with Temple University. Connections to South Africa and the
 Netherlands have been facilitated by Williams’ ‘Climates of Colonization’ Project (with the
 University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg), which works across history and physical
 geography by employing the records of the Dutch East India Company in Cape Town to better
 understand early modern climate change. Normally underrepresented in climate research, the
 Southern Hemisphere’s scant climate record prior to the 19th century has been radically expanded
 through the digitization (through the Nationaal Archief, The Hague) of these invaluable resources.
 Rapley’s developing connections to Japan (AHRC/ESRC UK-Japan Scheme) have likewise
 allowed collaboration across public institutions worldwide, working alongside scientists and
 museums (Japan Science Museum) in both the UK and Japan to encourage interdisciplinary
 dialogue. The Global Antiquities Network (McAuley) encourages a broader perspective to the
 study of the ancient world through collaboration with scholars at McGill University (Canada),
 Muenster / University of California Berkeley and the Waterloo Institute for Hellenistic Studies
 (Canada).
 4.2 Contribution to our Disciplines
 The breadth of these connections is further indicated by our contribution to the discipline in the
 form of keynotes and guest lectures given across the globe, including Chile (Ryan), Japan
 (Rapley), India (Anagol, Deeg), Australia (Machielsen), South Africa (Williams), China and Taiwan
 (Deeg). Lambert gave the Sundwall Lecture at the Finnish Institute at Athens (2017), The British
 School at Athens Visiting Fellow Lecture (2018) and the Charles Gordon McKay lecture,
 Edinburgh University (2019). As a keynote, Llewellyn-Jones spoke on 'Dress and Identity in
 Ancient Iran', for the prestigious, invited Vladamir Lukonin Lecture at the British Museum (July
 2019). Further links with Central Asian HE institutions have deepened across the unit. For
 instance, in 2017 Deeg was invited to deliver a keynote speech at an international conference
 organized by the University of Oush, Kyrghyzstan, during which a Memorandum of Understanding
 for future collaboration was proposed. CHRA’s journal ‘Asian Literature and Translation’,
 published online (open access) and by Cardiff University Press, has emerged as a publication hub
 for scholarly translations of Asian literature ranging from Sanskrit to Mongolian, and thereby
 contributes to the creation of a global and transdisciplinary network of academic translators whose
 work is made accessible to the public. ‘The Xuanzang Trail’ is the three-year project in Bihar, India,

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funded and supported by the Bihar Heritage Development Society, on which Deeg has been PI
 alongside Dr BJ Choudhary (Executive Director Bihar Heritage Development Society). It uses
 multidisciplinary and international collaboration to make cultural and historical heritage accessible
 and will bring new perspectives to the public perception of cultural and historical heritage in the
 State of Bihar, in India and in other regions in Asia with a Buddhist background and heritage
 (China, Korea, Japan, Thailand).
 The international dimensions of the unit’s influence are further underscored by its membership
 of and contribution to learned societies, editorial activity, and advisory roles across the
 disciplines. Manuscript and Peer reviews for the most significant Academic presses are carried
 out by members across the unit. In History, staff are active members of editorial boards, editors of
 key journals within the field, and of major monograph series, including: Social History of Medicine,
 Intersections in Literature and Science, Society for the Social History of Medicine Monograph
 Series (MUP), History (Journal), German Studies review, Llafur: The Welsh People’s History
 Journal, Cultural & Social History, Revolutionary Russia, English Historical Review, British
 Catholic History, Innes Review, Europe-Asia Studies, and French Historical Studies, and
 Outremer. Staff members working in the ancient world sit on editorial boards of key journals:
 Journal of Greek Archaeology; Social History of Medicine; MUP Social Histories of Medicine
 series; Journal of Medical History; including roles as Editor for Palgrave Macmillan New
 Approaches to Byzantine History and Culture Editor for EUP Debates and Documents in Ancient
 History; Series Editor for Edinburgh Studies in Ancient Persia and Screening Antiquity (EUP). Staff
 review book proposals/manuscripts for publishers, e.g. CUP, Routledge, Yale, DAIBR: Jordan
 Centre for Persian Studies; UC Irvine; CADMO: Classical Journal of Portugal. Totelin’s work has
 led to her being recently appointed Reviews Editor for the Journal of Hellenic Studies. In Religion,
 staff members are editors or members of editorial boards of Eastern Buddhist, Religions of South
 Asia, Asian Literature and Translation and Journal for Late Antique Religion and Culture (both
 published at Cardiff), Vigiliae Christianae, Supplements to Vigiliae Christianae, Journal for Late
 Antique Religion and Culture, Studia Patristica, Fieldwork in Religion, Contemporary Islam, The
 Journal of Beliefs and Values.
 Colleagues are involved at the level of policy and advisory roles at local, national, and
 international levels. In Ancient History, colleagues have worked in advisory capacities with the
 British Institute of Persian Studies and with the Department of Education on a GCSE Ancient
 History and A-Level curricula that includes the study of Ancient Persia (Llewellyn-Jones). In
 History, Nicholson has been a consultant in the editing and composition of the Pearson Education
 Edexcel/A-Level textbook for History with particular reference to the teaching of the Crusades and
 medieval history. Ali has been invited to participate in the revision of the BBC GCSE Bitesize
 Islam. Unit members also serve on advisory boards. Lössl is a member of the Faith and Order
 Committee of the Methodist Church of Great Britain and of the Standing Committee on Doctrine,
 Church in Wales. Baker-Brian is Advisor for the Welsh Joint Education Committee on revisions to
 new GSCE, AS, and A-Level RS/Philosophy curricula. Gilliat-Ray serves on the advisory boards
 of NATRE (National Association of RE teachers), of the Muslim Council of Britain, of the Muslim
 Council of Britain, of the Commission on Islam, Participation and Public Life, and as advisor to the
 National Zakat Foundation; she is also chair of the judge’s panel for The Muslim News Awards.
 Gilliat-Ray has been awarded New Year’s honours in recognition of her work with the CSIUK at
 an intercommunity level.
 4.3 Research and Community
 Core to our research identity is community-oriented history. Cardiff historians served essential
 roles in community-based learning and research across South Wales and the UK, ranging from
 public talks to museum consultation. The CAER Project, as noted in our Impact Strategy (see 1.3),
 has been a flagship project which links local communities (especially those in deprived areas) to
 sites of significant historical resonance, incorporating Cardiff staff (Wyatt, Ward) in the
 collaborative process of understanding their past and creating history. The CAER Project has been
 cited in HEFCW’s 2018 Innovation Nation Civic Mission Policy Report as an exemplar of excellent
 practice for impact and engagement. The project’s success with the Heritage Lottery Fund was
 announced by the First Minister for Wales in the Senedd in 2019.


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Local ties and regional history have also been highlighted by Gilliver who has worked on
 developing the Walking with the Romans App that communicates the history and visible material
 impact of the Roman occupation of Wales in the environment of the Brecon Beacons National
 Park. Llewellyn-Jones' long interest in costume design and dress history has led him to work with
 the National Museum of Wales and students from the Coleg y Cymoedd’s Costume Design MA,
 resulting in an exhibition and two, day-long workshops recreating portraits from the collection at
 the Museum in 2018 and 2019 (Fashion in the Frame). Reaching out to community history
 organisations globally is seen in Fragoulaki’s collaboration with the theatrical group Thucydides
 Dramaticus at the Hellenic Education & Research Center (HERC), and the National Theatre of
 Greece in the theatrical production of 'Lessons of War III'. The performances were held in Athens
 at the National Theatre (February 2020). Deeg’s work on the “Xuanzang Trail” project in Bihar,
 India, will contribute to the re-evaluation of Buddhist sites and heritage in Bihar and inform public
 sectors engaged in heritage, education, and tourism in India and other Asian countries (China).
 Our established system of research seminars, conferences, and workshops has ensured that
 Cardiff remains at the centre of historical research in Wales, drawing visiting scholars and
 researchers from across the globe. An example of this can be seen in Walker’s 2016 AHRC-
 funded Women Negotiating Justice: Britain and Ireland, c.1100 – c.1750 Workshop, which drew
 scholars of history, law, gender, and political activism from Canada, Continental Europe, and
 Australia to discuss critical approaches to women’s relationships with the law across more than
 500 years. Staff in Ancient History partner with our research centres to showcase new work with
 annual lectures for the Hellenistic Centre Cymru Works in Progress Seminar (i.e. by Prof.
 Fabienne Marchand (Université de Fribourg, Switzerland) on Local sanctuaries as mirrors of
 international relations: Boiotia in the 4th-1st centuries BC.- 2017). The Centre for Late Antique
 and Religion also hosts an annual lecture series supported by Ancient History and has a
 distinguished visiting fellow series. Speakers often give workshops as well that create places for
 further discussion with our PGR students and staff to explore new ideas and approaches, such as
 when Sheila Ager from the University of Waterloo, Canada provided a roundtable discussion and
 workshop on Royal Incest in 2019. Seminar and conference series also provide an essential
 access point for under-represented role models for PGR students within these subjects (e.g.
 Lyndal Roper – first female Regius Professor of History at Oxford – who spoke at the Early Modern
 Seminar in 2015).
 A significant contribution has been made by staff to community engagement through public
 lectures. Llewellyn-Jones has spoken about 'Locating the Women of Ancient Persia' to the Iran
 Heritage Foundation, in March 2019 and delivered a lecture to the British Zoroastrian Society on
 the “The Horse in Ancient Iranian Religion and Culture”, in London. McAuley is involved with and
 teaches Latin to the Catholic community of Cardiff (St Teilo`s Parish, Archdiocese of Cardiff, The
 Cardiff Oratory, Newman Hall). Totelin’s lecture on ‘Orchids and Lettuce: plants as sexual aid in
 antiquity’, was held at the PLANTSEX symposium, Institut Français/Serpentine Gallery London in
 April 2019. She was involved with training days for Student Midwives at Cardiff University (2016)
 and an exhibition on the history and sociology of infant feeding in Wales at the Cardiff Story
 Museum as part of the ESRC Festival of Social Science, November 5-6, 2016.
 The unit remains public-facing and committed to the dissemination of our research to a wider
 audience, regionally, nationally and internationally. Staff across the spectrum of career stage have
 made a significant contribution to the public understanding of history, shaping debates ranging
 from the First World War to the history of sexuality in medieval Europe. Cardiff historians presently
 serve advisory roles for Coleg Cymraeg Canedlaethol Senedd (Loeffler), the Museum of English
 Rural Life (Griffiths) and the Farmer’s Club, London, on matters pertaining to Brexit policy
 (Griffiths), as well as on a variety of local history societies (e.g. Kane for Canterbury and York
 Society). They have contributed to the framing of museum galleries: from the Science Museum in
 London and Museum of English Rural Life (Waddington) to Cardiff Story Museum (Ward). An
 ongoing presence on the BBC and other public broadcasters has been reinforced by the
 appointment of Emily Cock as a New Generation Thinker for her research on facial disfigurement
 and the history of the body. This adds to previous media appearances by Thacker (National
 Geographic; BBC Newsnight 24/4/18; PBS); Nicholson (‘The Siege of Malta’, BBC In Our Time);
 Loeffler (Welsh Radio for anniversary of the Berlin Blockade; anniversary of the Merthyr Tydfil
 Riots); Williams (Dan Snow’s History Hit on the East India Company); Llewellyn-Jones, ‘Battle of

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Salamis (4, Feb. 2017); and Tougher, on Eunuchs (26 Feb. 2015). Llewellyn-Jones has a long list
 of television appearances, appearing in BBC4’s acclaimed multi-part series, Art of Persia, that
 aired in May 2020.
 The unit’s achievements in this REF cycle reflect the unique balance of our subjects in engaging
 with the distinctive Welsh environment in which we operate and responding to the global issues
 we face. Through continuing support of initiatives both within and beyond the University, the unit
 remains committed to the development of our scholarship across local, national, and global scales.
 Our strategy will ensure that we remain at the forefront of research in a way that sustains
 excellence at all career stages and with constant consideration of how the University can play a
 defining role in the community, be it Cardiff, the UK, or the globe.




                                                                                           Page 16
