Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Sheffield


 Unit of Assessment: C-15 Archaeology


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


1.1 Unit context and structure, overall strategy

Context: The Department of Archaeology at the University of Sheffield is a single unit within the
Faculty of Arts and Humanities. It has an international reputation for integrating scientific, social
and humanities-based approaches to explore archaeology’s ‘big questions’: what it means to be
human, our place in nature, and our relationship with technology in the long term. Increasingly, our
interdisciplinary research addresses the emerging global challenges of food security and
sustainability, environmental and climate change, migration and displacement, cultural identity, and
health and social inequality. This requires collaborative partnerships with academic, commercial,
community and public bodies, which we have expanded through a culture of research excellence
combined with an active strategy of external engagement. We regard the creation of knowledge as
multi-faceted, and have invested in knowledge exchange (KE) with a large number of stakeholders.

Strategy: Our REF2014 research plans were to advance these big questions and emerging
challenges: using grant capture, including early career researcher (ECR) schemes, to facilitate
high-quality research and scholarship; disseminating our research through high-quality outputs;
enhancing the integration of all our researchers; and working with user-communities towards co-
production of new knowledge and methodologies. These plans have been implemented during
2014-2020 through the following integrated research and impact strategy:

       S1 Participation of our whole research community from undergraduate and Masters
       students to ECRs (PhD and postdoctoral) and established staff members.

       S2 Collaboration and co-production with external partners in both academic and non-
       academic user-communities.

       S3 Embedding impact into research projects from initial design to final outcomes.

       S4 Diversification of funding sources, supported by Departmental and University initiatives
       for the development of research ideas and impact pathways.

       S5 Dissemination of our research through high-quality outputs for both academic and public
       audiences.

Structure: Since 2014, we have reshaped our research clusters to maximise opportunities in six
key areas: ‘Landscape archaeology’, ‘Bioarchaeology’, ‘Funerary archaeology’, ‘Medieval Europe’,
‘Cultural materials’ and ‘Mediterranean archaeology’. All clusters share a common research and
impact strategy, and both people and projects regularly operate across clusters, fostering an
interdisciplinary approach. The examples below demonstrate our implementation of this strategy in
each cluster.




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.2 Our research over the assessment period

Landscape archaeology

The successful implementation of our research and impact strategy is illustrated by the UK
Palaeocave Survey, an archaeological-palaeoanthropological survey of Palaeolithic British cave
sites, through GIS desktop survey, field reconnaissance and excavation (Kuykendall, Merrony,
Ayala, Johnson). Undergraduate and Masters students participated in this project (S1), supported
by University funding and with the close collaboration of Creswell Crags and commercial
archaeologists from Sheffield Hallam and Manchester Universities. Public engagement during the
project includes a heritage festival, public displays, and the BBC ‘Digging for Britain’ programme
(S2,3). Kuykendall serves on the World Heritage Site Nomination Committee for Creswell Crags.
Prehistoric Landscape and Kinship: Johnston’s externally funded landscape projects have
culminated in his book ‘Bronze Age Worlds’, exploring the shaping of past cultural identities (S5).
Underpinning research includes recent collaborative projects in Snowdonia and Skomer Island,
Pembrokeshire (with national and local funding), three externally funded PhDs, and two AHRC
grants for co-production of knowledge in heritage (S2). University support included Faculty pump
priming/advice for grant applications and impact, an Arts Heritage grant, and departmental study
leave for writing the book (S4).

Bioarchaeology

The processes driving the origins and spread of agriculture were investigated through ERC-,
NERC- and Leverhulme-funded multidisciplinary projects (Jones, Wallace, Longford), using
cutting-edge techniques of geometric morphometrics, ancient DNA, experimental ecology, and
stable isotope analysis, employing 12 postdoctoral researchers at Sheffield and elsewhere during
the assessment period, providing career opportunities and training for the next generation of
researchers (S1,4). Our European network has expanded, and impacted the international research
community through new academic collaborations in south-east Turkey, and development-focussed
collaboration with research institutes in Jordan (through University pump-priming GCRF funding,
promoting sustainable rural cultures, food security and biodiversity) (S2). Multidisciplinary
collaborative research into the early husbandry, intensification, and ritual use of animals,
funded by a British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship (Albarella), the Leverhulme Trust and an ERC
early-career Marie Curie fellowship, combined zooarchaeological evidence with genetics and
isotopic analysis, deploying ethnography to understand human behaviour (S1). Halstead’s
monograph on traditional Mediterranean farming practices provides ground-breaking ethnographic
insights into decision-making relating to early crop management and food security, while
Albarella’s ethnographic fieldwork on livestock in Sardinia and Corsica led to a public exhibition,
co-organised with an ECR, and a television documentary (S3,5).

Funerary archaeology

This cluster exemplifies KE, non-academic collaborations and public engagement, as in the
investigation of charnel practices in medieval England (Craig-Atkins, Hadley), that gained
insights into the role of human remains in medieval religious practice, through collaborative
research at Rothwell Charnel Chapel (Northampton), with the Church, Heritage Centre and
commercial archaeologists. The University-funded launch of the chapel website and a series of
one-day events, public talks and hands-on workshops with human remains, enhanced public
interest and understanding of the chapel, receiving very positive feedback and much media interest
(S2,3). Analyses of human remains and grave goods from Anglo-Saxon and medieval burial
grounds (Hemer, Willmott) have identified, through laser spectroscopy and isotopic analyses,


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
high-status burials with European connections at 5-6thc. AD Scremby; and used bacterial
bioerosion to identify differential treatment of the dead in the hospital cemetery and a mass grave
(the first evidence of Black Death burials outside London) at Thornton Abbey (Lincolnshire).
Academic and non-academic collaborations were fundamental to both projects and to the
excavations at St. Patrick’s Chapel Pembrokeshire, one of our impact case studies, where an
extensive public-engagement programme attracted high media coverage (S2,3). These projects
explored issues of health, inequality, and identity.

Medieval Europe

Excavations and archival research at Sheffield Castle (Moreland, Hadley, Jones, Albarella) have
revealed a rich history dating back to the original motte-and-bailey castle, with a major impact on
local government policy concerning development of the site and its surroundings. In partnership
with commercial archaeologists, architects, Sheffield City Council, community groups and local
businesses, a shared vision is being developed for tackling urban inequality through regeneration
of the area, informed by its cultural heritage (S1,2,3). A diverse funding base, active programme of
public engagement, and publication of Moreland and Hadley’s co-produced book on the Castle,
ensure sustainability of the project, which is another of our impact case studies (S4,5). Survey and
excavation of the Saxon settlement of Little Carlton, Lincolnshire (Willmott), first brought to
academic attention by a metal detectorist reporting findings to the Portable Antiquities Scheme
(PAS), has influenced national policies on archaeological practice: methodologies from this model
of collaboration between amateurs, heritage professionals and academics have been incorporated
into revised guidance being developed by the PAS and British Museum (S2,5). The project
received a Current Archaeology Award, voted by its readers an outstanding contribution to
archaeology.

Cultural materials

In the investigation of humans, nature and technologies (Day, Doonan, Jackson, Iles) we have
engaged fully and critically with radical shifts in theoretical approaches to the evolution of living and
social systems, the place of material culture in the construction of human worlds and cultural
identities and the elucidation and transmission of production technologies, through cutting-edge
methods of laser ablation ICP-MS, portable X-ray fluorescence spectroscopy, radiography,
experimental archaeology and ethnography. The assessment period saw the culmination of the
NARNIA project (Jackson, Day, Doonan), a collaborative research network between nine
private/academic partners, training young researchers to integrate innovative scientific techniques
with traditional approaches to ancient materials, in a live project on Eastern Mediterranean
history/archaeology (S1,2). Training courses, in six countries from the UK to Jordan, on pottery,
glass, metals and architectural materials, provided opportunities to interact across disciplines.
Sheffield trainees have proceeded to: Director, Yale Initiative for the Study of Ancient Technology;
Postdoctoral Researcher, Ecole Française de Rome; Laboratory manager, Center for Materials
Research in Archaeology and Ethnology, Massachusetts; Marie Sklodowska-Curie Fellow,
University of Barcelona.

Mediterranean archaeology

The EC FP7 collaborative project, Mediterranean Mountainous Landscapes (MEMOLA) (Day,
Doonan) integrates archaeology, history, and ethnography in promoting sustainable agriculture and
agrotourism, and mitigating environmental and climate change. MEMOLA engaged local
communities with educational animations on water, soils and cultural heritage and the EU
Commission used it as an example of best practice in impact (S2,3). It won a Hispania Nova Award


                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
for Good Practice in Landscape Conservation, and was selected by the EU Humanities Scientific
Committee as one of five top innovative research projects. Research on Black Sea fortification
and political networks explores cultural integration and engagement associated with ancient
Greek settlement around the Black Sea, embedding the south coast into broader Black Sea
narratives through funerary and landscape archaeology as well as excavations at the Greek
settlement of Sinop (Rempel, Sherratt, Merrony). This has involved a diverse range of local
partners, academic institutions, and international funding, and University support for ECRs
(S1,2,4), complemented by development of animated and 3D visualisations of the Sinop
fortification wall (a cultural-heritage and tourism focus) to engage the public in a new
understanding of early colonial migration.

Overview

The examples above demonstrate successful implementation, through the integration of scientific
and humanities approaches, of our 5-point research and impact strategy across all research areas.
We have maximised the diversity of our funding (strategically using local, national, and
international sources) and supported researchers at all career stages (undergraduates and ECRs
to established staff), through University and departmental financial and advisory initiatives (e.g.
University-funded student projects, University public engagement support), contributing to the
research vitality and sustainability of the Department and the discipline. Our policy of embedding
impact strategy into research planning from the outset has enhanced collaboration with a diverse
range of non-academic and academic partners. Support for individual scholarship and publication,
through strategic use of study leave and externally-funded fellowships (e.g. British Academy and
Leverhulme to Albarella, Halstead, Iles, Longford, Sherratt), has also been key to our tackling
major archaeological questions, and maximising our research impact in areas where archaeology
can make a vital contribution to current global challenges.

Our commitment to a deep time perspective has led to publications on early hominins (Kuykendall),
medieval migration (Hemer), a major theoretical critique on the human impact of volcanic activity
and environmental determinism (Moreland), and reconstruction of the environmental context of
field and terracing systems, water management and soil quality (Johnston, Ayala, Doonan, Day).
Bioarchaeological research on food sharing and storage (Halstead), crop diversity (Jones) and
breed improvement (Albarella) have significantly contributed to understanding of long-term food
security and agricultural sustainability, while investigations of burial practices, commemorations
and human osteology have addressed issues of health and social inequality (Hemer, Craig-Atkins)
with a particular emphasis on early life, enhanced by Carroll’s monograph on ‘Infancy and
Childhood in the Roman World’, and the 2016 establishment of the Sheffield Centre for the
Archaeology of Childhood, reflecting a distinctive speciality which lays the foundation for future
research. Targeted research has produced a plethora of high-quality outputs on construction of
identity through production and consumption of material culture as diverse as clothing, silver, and
architecture (Carroll, Sherratt, Jackson, Rempel, Moreland, Hadley), or its deconstruction (e.g.
Willmott’s Dissolution of the Monasteries monograph).

Open access and research integrity

We are committed to an open research environment, with both staff and students encouraged to
maximise impact by making all output types openly available via the ‘green route’ of our repository
shared with the Universities of Leeds and York, which also ensures compliance with copyright and
other publisher stipulations. Our deposit rate over the last five years (through all open access
routes) is 88% for journal articles (plus the majority of book chapters), with three over 30,000



                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
downloads. Albarella’s monograph on the zooarchaeology of central England and Moreland and
Hadley’s book on Sheffield Castle are open access publications for maximum impact and interest.

We support a culture respecting the importance of ethics and integrity, with all colleagues aware of
relevant legal and professional frameworks and their related obligations. Our dedicated
departmental ethics contact oversees ethical review of research involving human
participants/personal data in line with University policy, ensures reviewers undertake appropriate
training, and updates colleagues on changes to ethical or legal requirements. A range of
mechanisms are in place to enable researchers to discuss and challenge research findings and
share good practice, contributing to a broad culture of research integrity.

1.3 Strategic objectives for 2021-2025

Our commitment to multi-disciplinary collaborative research, integrating scientific techniques into
ambitious archaeological research designs, continues to shape our future objectives. These will
focus on specific research areas, integrating varied approaches within and beyond the
Department, and taking advantage of the Grantham Centre for Sustainable Futures and newly-
constituted Flagship Institutes that pool expertise across the University and its partners: particularly
the Healthy Lifespan Institute (building on our deep-time understanding of life histories,
bioarchaeology, disease and health), and the Institute for Sustainable Food (bringing our broad
chronological perspective to domestication, agriculture, the human-animal relationship, irrigation,
landscape and sustainability). Within these initiatives, we are positioning ourselves as the obvious
choice to coordinate interdisciplinary projects tackling big questions with a historical perspective:

Health, life histories and identity: New research harnessing innovative analytical approaches in
ancient DNA, proteomics, radiography and histology will advance understanding of behaviour, life
history evolution, past health and lifestyles, while novel interrogation of funerary evidence will
illuminate embodied experience and identities in life and death. We will deepen our focus on early
life by expanding our Centre for the Archaeology of Childhood and collaborations with the
cultural/heritage sectors, while investment in a Forensic Science and Human Osteology
appointment will bring a new dimension to this research area, extending our acknowledged
expertise beyond the medieval world to explore the impact of social change, inequality, and
technological advancement on health and wellbeing from the origins of humanity to the present.

The archaeology of food production: Our long-standing focus (combining study of ancient
plants, bones, molecules, field systems and soils with ethnography) on cultures of food production
and their environmental impacts will expand geographically to the Black Sea littoral and Caucasus.
We will respond to the current global environmental and climatic crisis, by increasingly harnessing
our archaeological and ethnographic insights into ancient and recent farming regimes to promote
sustainable land use and animal husbandry, from Wales to Georgia, in the face of environmental
change, growing ethical concerns and emerging opportunities for ‘heritage’ products. To this end
we will build on our links with the University’s Institute for Sustainable Food and Animal and Plant
Sciences and Biomedical Sciences departments through joint research, funding initiatives and
PGR students, and on collaborations with national and regional bodies in the UK and overseas.

Sustainable living landscapes: Our research will bridge disciplinary boundaries by striving to
understand the long-term dynamics through which humanity has made and been made by
environments and landscapes. We will expand the range of disciplines with which we collaborate,
focussing on links with environmental humanities, geographical sciences, and visual arts – building
on participation in the AHRC’s Creative Landscape Futures network. We will foreground societal
resilience and sustainability within narratives of environmental change, strengthened by a new post


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
in Archaeology of the Environment and Sustainability. Our research will inform the future of
vulnerable landscape heritage in partnership with major conservation agencies, including Creswell
Crags and the Carneddau Landscape Partnership. A recurring theme will be the dynamic relations
between people, land, and water, which we will progress through GCRF projects studying water
management and NERC-funded research on sea-level change.

Cultural materials: We will grow our current approach of grounding analytical approaches to
materials within a strong archaeological context across a greater temporal scale in order to
understand changing identity over time, especially in periods of dynamic population movement
building, for example, on Willmott’s artefact studies in Lincolnshire and Rempel’s in the Black Sea
region. We will expand our use of digital technology and 3D-modelling (e.g. reimagining Sheffield
Castle for urban planning) within the material and built world, for use in the heritage industry. Our
extensive understanding of ancient materials recycling will be deployed through collaborative
funding initiatives (e.g. Innovate UK) with Hallam University to inform modern manufacturing
industries (ceramics, cement, glass), enabling them to reduce costs and improve sustainability.

We will further invest in the Department’s future vitality by strengthening our period-based research
through a new appointment in Iron Age/Roman archaeology, while an appointment in global
heritage and archaeology will enhance the research element of our established success in heritage
teaching and further strengthen our public engagement and impact activities. These two posts will
create synergies with the two new science-based appointments (above), offering new opportunities
for grant capture and for PDRA and PGR recruitment.


 2. People


2.1 Research culture

Our strong, closely-knit research community values rigour, integrity, collegiality, and inclusion, and
supports excellence in research through strong cooperation and an ethically based culture of
enquiry across the Department, from training at PGT level, through our active PGR community to
academic and specialist technical staff, underpinned by a committed professional services team.
Our supportive, inclusive and participatory research culture is evidenced in our weekly PGR-led
research seminars hosting internal and external speakers, our successful monthly staff seminars
which report research progress and future developments, and the organic development of PGR-led
reading groups (e.g. Old World, zooarchaeology, archaeomaterials). We have hosted >30 visiting
researchers, important to our community, for stays of more than three months, including senior
academics who co-produced research. Fixed-term staff and ECRs participate fully in strategic
planning and serve on our Research and Innovation Committee, while postdoctoral researchers
contribute to team-based PGR supervision, enhancing research vitality and career development.
Our active community of honorary research fellows and emeriti contributes extensively to research
projects and doctoral supervision. Six-month affiliate status for graduated PGRs cements future
collaboration and extends our community internationally.

2.2 Staffing strategy and staff development

Recruitment strategy

Our long-term recruitment strategy is to consolidate and grow our distinctive strengths (e.g.
bioarchaeology/health, landscape/environment, heritage) and appoint dynamic researchers
offering methodological innovations (e.g. ECRs Hemer - isotope analysis, Iles - archaeology of

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Africa/sustainable landscapes). Staff retention since REF2014 has been high: our permanent 15
T&R staff include 8 professors, 5 senior lecturers and 2 lecturers, with one retirement, two
departures and one long-term secondment (British School at Athens). We will take the opportunity
of these changes to reinvigorate our staffing profile allowing us to reshape our research strategy,
introduce new approaches, and ensure sustainability. To support our strategic objectives for 2021-
2025, approval has been given for four new lectureships in: Archaeology of the Environment and
Sustainability; Forensic Archaeology and Human Osteology; Global Heritage and Archaeology;
Iron Age/Roman Archaeology.

We invest in training the next generation of researchers through postdoctoral recruitment, as an
entry point for ECRs and to maintain a healthy diversity in career-stage and expertise amongst
staff. We have successfully recruited 27 postdoctoral fellows and 5 postdoctoral assistants
(PDRAs), through Marie Sklowdowska-Curie IEF and the hosting of Leverhulme, British Academy,
Gerda-Henkel, and de Velling Willis fellows, and a Vice-Chancellors Fellow (now senior lecturer).
This vibrant, high-quality community ensures the critical mass fundamental to the coherence and
vitality of our research groups, brings new synergies and techniques, and collaborates with us after
departure (e.g. Salvagno, Corbino, Groot with Albarella; Gilstrap, del Pino, Tenconi with Day;
Forster, Longford, Wallace with Jones; Orengo with Halstead). Underpinning these successes, we
have also invested in four new specialist research technicians to keep abreast of cutting-edge
methodologies to provide laboratory support and management, specialist training (freeing
academic time) and essential research support, and to expand our research collections.

Staff development, support, and mentoring

Our strategy prioritises support for researchers to produce high-quality individual and collaborative
research. Our Research Committee mentors colleagues in planning research, provides a robust
system for reviewing draft outputs, KE activities and funding applications, and directs researchers
to other sources of support (technical; financial; University and beyond), resulting inter alia in six
monographs this assessment period. All research-active staff have an annual Research Support
Meeting with the Head of Department, departmental Research and Innovation (R&I) Director and a
senior colleague, with input from the departmental KE/Impact Director, to ensure tailored support
for research aims, design and completion.

Mentoring and peer review especially target ECRs and early-career transitions. New colleagues
receive mentors, and probationers are reviewed annually, in addition to the usual Staff Review and
Development Scheme (see REF5a). All researchers have a programme of induction and those
entering open-ended T&R contracts have a probationary period with reviewing milestones,
supported by the Head as mentor/line manager and the R&I Director. New T&R staff have a staged
75% reduction in teaching and administration in Y1, to 25% in Y3. Fixed-term staff are similarly
supported in research by the R&I Director. Staff-led research groups (e.g. Archaeobotany,
Zooarchaeology, Cultural Materials), involving PGRs and postdocs, provide a catalyst for novel
directions and opportunities for mentoring and career development.

Research leave is strongly encouraged (one semester in seven), targeted to applications/outputs
(e.g. Johnston’s monograph), sometimes extended by external funds (four British
Academy/Leverhulme grants and an alumni donation, resulting in three monographs, plus two in
preparation). Our workload model assigns 33% research activity per FTE, with dedicated blocked
time for T&R staff, and teaching loads are structured to facilitate research productivity.

A new Faculty Research Hub facilitates review and support mechanisms, while Faculty support for
KE and public engagement has been substantially enhanced, including a new Peer Review
Committee and regular notification of funding opportunities for PDRAs and teaching buyouts. The

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
University is committed to fully supporting staff and PGRs through the Think Ahead programme for
continuous professional development, and parenting networks.

Reward and recognition

Promotion is a key element of career development and institutional reward and recognition
procedures are aligned with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers. The new Academic Career Pathways (see REF5a) recognises key research
components: outputs, income, impact, KE and professional standing, in combination with excellent
research. Six staff were promoted since 2014: to senior lecturer (SL) (Craig-Atkins), professor
(Jackson, Day); three more than once, highlighting the efficacy of our support structures:
reader/professor (Albarella), SL/reader/professor (Sherratt), Vice-Chancellor’s Fellow/lecturer/SL
(Hemer). Our postdocs also advanced: one to an ECR starter grant, four to T&R academic posts,
four to commercial posts, 12 to research posts, three to research administration. The Technician
Commitment, which Sheffield joined in 2017, informs University support for research technicians,
alongside departmental mentoring to enable these specialists to progress (e.g. one to a
lectureship, one to a consultancy directorship).

2.3 Research students

We prioritise a supportive inclusive environment, sufficient resources and guidance, to nurture a
dynamic research community, ensuring well-being and enhancing career prospects. Since
REF2014, 79 PGR students commenced research, maintaining a consistent community of 35 FTE,
and 60 completed successfully.

Recruitment strategy

We recruit PGRs strategically to our strengths and emerging research areas, including through
major EU awards, and from our specialist PGT programmes (65% of our PGRs derive from our
PGTs – 45% non-UK). Quality is reflected in studentships gained: 28 AHRC/NERC (36% of our
total, representing a 186% increase from REF2014), including three Collaborative Doctoral
Awards, with three more starting in 2020; 14 University scholarships; and four funded from
international and industry sources. Our community is global and diverse: 13% aged under 24, 35%
over 30; 53% non-UK (25% outside the EU); 75% female; 19% with known disability; 3% self-
declared minority ethnic; 20% part-time; and from diverse specialisms (e.g. biology, medicine,
philosophy, computer science, as well as humanities disciplines). PGRs are involved in decision
making through representation on Faculty Executive Board and departmental meetings.

Monitoring and support

Prospective PGRs develop projects within our research clusters with potential supervisors and an
admissions committee. Team supervision provides interdisciplinary and specialist expertise, and
an independent pastoral tutor. In this assessment period eight PGRs have been cross-disciplinary
(with the Animal and Plant Sciences, Geography, Mathematics and Statistics, Computer Science,
Physics, and Medicine departments), and five with external partners through AHRC and NERC
Collaborative Doctoral Awards, and partnerships/networks (plus three in 2020); others are jointly
supervised with other universities (e.g. Leeds, Brussels) to mutual benefit. The PGR Experience
Survey (PRES2019) showed >94% were satisfied with their supervisors’ skills, knowledge,
feedback and direction. Supervisions are timetabled at least monthly, while twice-yearly reports
and annual review meetings include ‘live’ training needs analysis, updated regularly and checked
annually to ensure appropriate support and training. Confirmation reviews in Y1 allow reflection
and feedback from independent non-specialist colleagues. PGRs have dedicated study rooms co-
                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
located with staff offices, and share our newly built laboratory facilities, enhancing intellectual
exchange and a sense of community.

Skills training and career preparation

Specialist training is variously one-to-one or through courses. Our Doctoral Development
Programme provides training in research ethics, KE, public speaking, committee organisation,
application writing, transferable skills and career opportunities, while the Modern Language
Teaching Centre offers language support. In Y1 and Y3 (FT), PGRs present to peers and staff in a
supportive conference. 88% considered they had appropriate skills, methodologies, techniques
and could critically evaluate their results, and 88% had developed an understanding of research
integrity (PRES2019). Students across our Faculty organise a well-attended Writing Retreat.
AHRC-funded students receive funding for conferences and research, and training in KE and
employability; and Jackson co-authored the successful 2017 White Rose (Leeds-Sheffield-York)
bid to AHRC DTP2.

The annual departmental ‘Careers Week’ provides tailored training events, meetings with
employers, practice interviews and funding advice. Employability is enhanced through placements,
teaching experience, publishing, presenting, and collaboration. 88% of PGRs had developed
contacts/professional networks (PRES2019).

Public interaction and career enhancement

Knowledge exchange is key to our strategic agenda, and we facilitate PGR engagement with
community and strategic partners. Archaeology and Ale public lectures (typically 50 attendees,
plus podcasts (6,200 downloads/year, >750/lecture)); the annual Woodland Heritage Festival with
Sheffield City Council; and Archaeology in the City, a volunteer-led outreach programme of
activities making archaeology accessible. Dig It!, involving PGRs, trains school students in
practical archaeology, as does Arts Enterprise, Faculty-led civic engagement with local/regional
partners. PGRs, trained by storytellers, publicly presented research in Tales from the Ivory Tower.
These connections increase research impact and facilitate employability.

Outcomes

Our PGRs flourish, enhancing our standing through national/international conference presentations
(37 students), and organising 19 external workshops/conferences and three student symposia
(Early Medieval Archaeology 2020; Experimental Archaeology 2020; Society for Medieval
Archaeology 2015). Ten have won prizes (e.g. best posters: Society of Archaeological Sciences,
EAA). They have published >70 outputs (book chapters and journal papers, e.g. Journal of
Archaeological Science, Antiquity, Post-Medieval Archaeology, Quaternary International), 20 co-
authored with staff; and run the journal Assemblage. Their excellent training is reflected in career
destinations including postdoctoral fellowships (e.g. Gerda Henkel, British Academy, Marie-Curie:
Munich, Barcelona, Vienna); lectureships (Bristol, Yale, Cardiff); laboratory manager (MIT);
specialists/managers in UK/overseas commercial units. Their success enhances the discipline, and
continuing collaborations contribute 25% of REF-submitted outputs.

2.4 Equality, diversity, and inclusion (EDI)

Our EDI strategy tailors recruitment, support and development to harness diverse talent and
perspectives in developing our research clusters. It is embedded operationally through a
departmental EDI Director and EDI committee, who report to departmental meetings ensuring that
all staff share responsibility for EDI in key decisions. Our recruitment addresses bias through role-

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
requirement job descriptions, debiased advertising language, unconscious bias training for all staff
and independent scoring of candidates against essential job criteria.

Our department was actively engaged with gender equality through the pilot for rolling out the
Athena SWAN scheme in humanities subjects, and gained successive Bronze Awards in 2014 and
2018, while the University achieved a Silver Award in 2019. We have an exceptional record of
recruiting and supporting female staff - 61% of academic staff are female (7M:8F T&R and 4M:4F
professors) and 2M:2F technical staff. We appointed our first female Head in 2014 and second in
2018. We support staff following illness and parental leave (3M+2F) or with caring responsibilities,
by flexible working (through timetabling/no expectations outside core hours), reduced
teaching/administration and part-time contracts (17% of staff). Workloads, promotion criteria and
leave allocation are scaled proportionately for part-timers. The Women Academic Returner’s
Programme supported one researcher after following maternity-leave by providing a PDRA, while
keeping-in-touch days supported paid return to work ad hoc.

Institutional commitment to eliminating discrimination and promoting diversity includes active
support for LGBTQ+ staff/students, and led to ranking 23 rd in the Stonewall Top 100 Employers
2019 survey (one of four universities). We have LGBTQ+ representation on EDI and staff/student
committees, and support trans-equality (gender-neutral bathrooms, shared pronouns). The
University’s BAME action plan targets transformational change in under-representation,
progression and attainment, supports staff/student BAME networks, and shares good practice in
decolonising curricula and research tackling migration and identity. One-third of our T&R staff are
foreign nationals and three are non-native English speakers, promoting a vibrant and inclusive
departmental culture. The University is a Level 2 Disability Confident Employer with a supportive
University Disabled Network. Our technical team facilitates personalised support for lab and
equipment access.

The University's REF Code of Practice ensures equality and diversity in our submission. Our
departmental REF team is gender- and seniority-inclusive, with a breadth of expertise and training
in EDI and the countering of implicit bias. Outputs were selected on ranked quality, with due
consideration of authors' protected characteristics. The University's equality impact assessment of
our scoring found no evidence of bias. We follow the University process for disclosing equality-
related circumstances, and ensure that staff are aware of available support. Ranking and selection
of outputs will not be used in recruitment, review, promotion or any way detrimental to staff.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


3.1 Research income

Mentoring has resulted in all 32 staff members (including 10 temporary) submitting funding
applications, achieving external research grants awarded in the period of c.£2.2m, (£148k per
Category A FTE) from at least 45 different funders across all our research clusters. Our largest
grants were European: EU Horizon 2020/FP7 (‘COMEX Bronze Age Commodity Exchange’ (Day),
‘HUBIR Human-Bird Interactions’ (Albarella) including seven new Marie Curie Fellows) and
European Commission/ERC (‘MEMOLA Mediterranean Landscapes’ (Doonan, Day), ‘ADAPT Life
in a Cold Climate’ (Jones)). RCUK, Leverhulme and British Academy also supported our research,
e.g. ‘Digital Engagement for Heritage’ (Moreland, Hadley), ‘Mobilisation of Resources’ (Carroll),
‘Connected Communities’ (Johnston), ‘Black Sea Fortifications and Political Networks’ (Rempel,
Sherratt).



                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
To ensure sustainability, we also diversified our sources nationally and internationally to include
e.g. Harvard University (Loeb), Gerda Henkel and Wenner-Gren, as well as British Institute in
Ankara, Nineveh Charitable Trust, Peak District National Park Authority, Society of Antiquaries,
Innovate UK and HEIF. Awards have supported major monographs (Albarella, Halstead, Sherratt),
fieldwork and post-excavation analysis (all staff), and postdoctoral positions. We received
additional funding for conferences (e.g. Thyssen Foundation, Japanese Institute of Anatolian
Archaeology, Academica Sinica, Taipei, British Association for Biological Anthropology and
Osteoarchaeology (BABAO), Experimental Archaeology (EXARC)); postdoctoral positions paid in
kind (e.g. Basque Government, Grau); excavations (e.g. Roman Society, Carroll; local Greek
Government, Halstead); analyses (NERC Isotope Facility, Hemer). These examples demonstrate
the success of our strategic focus on applying scientific approaches to complex problems across
disciplinary and national boundaries, engaging both academic and commercial sectors.

Generous funding from alumni and other supportive donors has benefited all research areas. A
local £122k bequest funded research on Sheffield Castle ahead of regeneration of the area,
including employment of PDRAs and publication costs (see Sheffield Castle impact case
study); the Archaeology of Childhood including conferences (Maternitas in Rome, Carroll) and
Carroll’s monograph on Infancy and Childhood in the Roman World; and dating a charnel chapel
(Craig-Atkins). Donors have also funded ECRs in bioarchaeology (Wallace, 3-years) and Aegean
prehistory (Tomkins, 2-years). Conference sponsorship (e.g. Van Walt, Keyence Microscopes,
AlphaGeoUK, Equinox, Antiquity) supported the AEA and Early Medieval Student symposia.

Our large ECR cohort has diverse funding sources, including Marie-Curie (13 new and continuing),
Leverhulme (Iles), BA (Hemer, Longford), Gerda Henkel (Salvagno), building capacity in training
the next generation in our bioarchaeology, landscape, funerary, materials, Mediterranean and
medieval clusters. Many contribute to research income (e.g. Wenner-Gren, Nineveh, Corning
Museum, Antiquaries) and applications (ERC, UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships, Wellcome,
Leverhulme). Our supervisory expertise and analytical resources have won collaborative doctoral
awards: four AHRC (English Heritage/Albarella, Livestock and landscape; MOLA/Craig-Atkins,
Social impact of foetal-perinatal mortality during industrialisation; Snowdonia National
Park/Johnston, Snowdonia's early fieldscapes; Historic England/Willmott, Evolution of Audley End;
Historic England/Jackson, Medieval glazing industry; two NERC ACCE (RCAHMW/Johnston, Late
Holocene coastal landscapes in north Wales); two AHRC networks (Albarella, Johnston);
Grantham Centre for Sustainability/Doonan, Entropy and coupling between the natural and
engineered world).

Our successful engagement with strategic and other partners includes joint funding bids and
commercial contracts, particularly in bioarchaeology (e.g. zooarchaeology £47k; Sheffield
Archaeobotanical Consultancy £109k), employing several ECRs. 31 successful short courses (e.g.
Understanding Zooarchaeology, Introduction to R, Ceramic Petrography, Human Osteology) have
attracted diverse participants and generated £167k over the assessment period. These
collaborative, commercial and KE activities exemplify several aspects of our integrated research
strategy (section 1.1).

3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

The Department’s 2017 relocation to Minalloy House (new offices, PGR and social spaces;
accessible storage for collections) and Ella Armitage Building (re-named after female local
archaeologist; new laboratory space and equipment including furnaces, freezers, cold storage,
roller racking for extensive teaching collections) represented University investment in archaeology
of £1.5m. We use the Humanities Research Institute dedicated space for one-off research talks,

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
workshops and conferences: e.g. our annual PGR conference; EXARC 2020; and ‘Nigerian Field
Society contributions to Archaeology’ 2018. Alumni grants have also funded new laboratory
equipment benefiting all clusters: an analytical pXRF, isotope-analysis preparation (sectioning
equipment, freeze drier) and laboratory remodelling (£18k), and a Leica GS15 Total Station with
twin antennae for surveying (£21k), plus expansion of the bird skeletal reference collection (£5k)
enhancing our Centre for study of Archaeological Bird Bones.

Our extensive reference collections greatly enhance our research capability in bioarchaeology and
materials science, and the range of research projects we can undertake and PGR topics we can
offer. The breadth and depth of these collections also attract external users. Our online animal
bone collection is linked to an open access national resource (2,238 visits/13,186 downloads since
April 2017). Our human skeletal collection is accessed by UK and international researchers from
across Europe and North America, and by commercial users, while our digital radiographs
collection is the basis of a large planned aDNA collaboration with the Crick Institute, and our
archaeobotanical, ceramic thin-section and metals reference collections are used extensively by
visitors. Our national and international collaborations provide access to additional cutting-edge
analytical facilities, collections and expertise at minimal or in-kind cost, extending our research
capacity beyond our own estate.

3.3 Mechanisms in place to support income generation

University and Faculty coordinated research and impact services provide advice on budgets,
cross-faculty initiatives, and inter-University opportunities, and 20 pump-priming grants funded
buyouts/PDRAs resulting in successful applications: e.g. Society of Antiquaries (Hemer/Willmott;
Medieval Europe); AHRC Cultural Engagement Fund and Next Generation of Immersive
Experiences (Moreland; Medieval Europe); Society for Promotion of Roman Studies and BA/Rust
Family Foundation/Roman Society (Carroll, Mediterranean Archaeology); and HLF for National
Park (Johnston; Landscape). Particularly Johnston’s pump-primed work in ‘at risk’ cultural
landscapes (joint with Geography/York, Lincolnshire Wildlife Trust and part of a White Rose
collaboration) was funded by Arts Enterprise, Snowdonia National Park Authority and AHRC/NERC
studentships. Faculty bursaries for pre-application visits by prospective postdoctoral research
fellows yielded two Marie-Curie fellows (Albarella/Groot, Halstead/Polo for Bioarchaeology) and
GCRF pump-primers two larger GCRF applications. Five On campus placements have enabled
students to co-produce research (e.g. with Rempel at Sinop and, subsequently, BA/Leverhulme,
National Endowment for the Humanities, British Institute at Ankara). The Learned Societies Fund
also provided up to £700/head annually for conference attendance, over the last seven years
enabling equal numbers of staff and PGRs to present at 147 events.

This support extends to dissemination of research to the community, facilitating impact and KE,
and includes the Faculty’s innovative KE team, where our dedicated liaison is a community
engagement expert from beyond HE. We work closely with, and have been generously resourced
by, these services. The Department ensures dedicated staff time for impact planning and delivery
(with a designated impact/engagement lead). Hemer and Moreland received administration
buyouts to support impact activities (St Patrick’s chapel and Sheffield Castle). Devolved HEIF
funding for impact and engagement of at least £5k/year has supported: e.g. the Woodland Heritage
Festival; Kuykendall’s development of our high-impact partnership with Creswell Crags; and visits
by researchers from Kazakhstan to establish collaborations. This enables grass-roots development
of new ideas and partnerships for future impactful research. Impact is prominent in all research
planning, including staff research-support meetings; mentorship and advice are given especially to
ECRs on its development.


                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


4.1 Academic collaborations, networks, and partnerships

In line with our integrated research and impact strategy (Section 1), collaboration with diverse
partners (academic, public heritage organisations, commercial units/consultancies - national and
international) is fundamental to our research. Much of our research is interdisciplinary and so
intrinsically collaborative, applying scientific approaches to humanities research questions. We
have intensified fruitful collaborations across the University: Hemer, Craig-Atkins, Nystrom and
Hadley with Medicine to develop the application of DNA and isotope analyses to study of diet,
mobility and disease; Albarella, Halstead and Jones, with Animal and Plant Sciences, with
particular emphasis on ecological approaches to crop and animal husbandry and evolution;
Jackson, Day and Doonan with Materials Science and Engineering in determining mechanical and
thermal properties of ceramics and reconstructing raw material choice in the manipulation of
glasses and ceramics.

A major priority has been to strengthen national and international collaborations to ensure the
vitality of our research environment, and is integral to our research strategy. We have collaborated
with >70 UK and overseas universities and research institutes in various research areas (Section
1), and in collaborative PGR training (e.g. with Universities of Barcelona, Thessaloniki, Thrace,
York; English Heritage, Museum of London, Snowdonia National Park). We have also expanded
links with European institutions through major research projects, consortia, training networks,
information exchange and mentoring of ECRs. As well as collaborations on specific research
projects, we have been a member of several research networks targeted at KE: e.g. the EU-FP7
NARNIA project; the AHRC Research Networks on Floods: Living with water in the past, present
and future and Faith in Food and Food in Faith (with Leeds and York; addressing environmental
change, food security and identity); as well as the University-funded International Mobility Scheme
to establish research collaborations with Nanjing University, China. A major benefit of international
collaborations and networks is the opportunity for ECRs to gain experience, and acquire new skills,
at another institution.

Active collaborations with research institutes, such as NCSR ‘Demokritos’ (Athens) and the
University of Barcelona, have been strengthened, affording free access to partners’
complementary analytical facilities, frequent three-month exchanges of PGRs for training and joint
research (four incoming to Sheffield during the assessment period), leading to 15 co-authored
papers involving Sheffield. Graduate and postdoctoral Erasmus work placements have extended
the reach and impact of our research, notably in zooarchaeology and ceramics: ECRs from
Granada, Barcelona, Tarragona, Thessaloniki, and Wroclaw worked with zooarchaeology, while
others from Leuven and Thessaloniki spent internships improving ceramic comparative collections.
Hosting these researchers brings vibrancy to the research culture of the Department.

4.2 Engagement with research users for the benefit of economy and society

A key strength of archaeology at Sheffield is the degree to which impact is embedded in our overall
research strategy so that both elements develop hand-in-hand throughout our projects. At a local
level, we have benefited from consultation with our Sheffield Archaeology Strategic Board,
constituted in 2016 as a forum for strategic discussion with key external organisations in
professional archaeology and allied fields (currently: Peak District National Park, Wessex
Archaeology, ArcHeritage, The National Trust, Derbyshire County Council, Historic England). This


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
board advises on design and resourcing of collaborative research and facilitates communication of
our research directly to local industry and both local and national heritage organisations.

A major new strategic partnership, underpinning our impact case study on Sheffield Castle, is that
between the University, Sheffield City Council, Wessex Archaeology, and local businesses with the
central aims of enhancing the vibrancy of the city centre and ensuring Sheffield’s cultural resources
are protected and promoted within wider political agendas. This acts as a vehicle for broader
agendas of advocating for the North of England in a political context, challenging social and
economic inequalities. KE with community groups has also been ensured through projects such as
Roots and Futures (Craig-Atkins, Johnston), a collaborative investigation of heritage and place
linking staff in the Department with the local industrial museum and two Sheffield-based community
groups, using co-production methods to create new understandings of Sheffield’s built and buried
heritage. Focusing on industrial areas of Sheffield, it engages the local communities in a
collaborative exploration of shared heritage, reflecting on aspects of the archaeology and history of
these areas that are important and meaningful today.

We are also committed to creative means of public engagement including performance. Hadley
worked with Point Blank theatre company to develop a successful performance in a tented venue
in Sheffield city centre that led to an Arts Council grant for the show to tour around South
Yorkshire. In collaboration with a local Friends group and the City Council, Doonan’s Roots of Iron:
Ancient Oak to Sheffield Steel engaged young people in exploring, enjoying and sharing the rich
landscape and cultural heritage of Woolley Woods and Wincobank Hill, Sheffield. Our collaborative
commitment extends to our PGR community that has been very successful in developing and
running (with Sheffield City Council) the Woodland Heritage Festival since 2015, which celebrates
our research, introducing the public to various crafts, including metalwork, pottery-making, leather-
and stone-working (c.1,200 participants over two days). A graduate student won a Barzun Prize to
carry out public engagement work ensuring participation of local 16-18-year-olds in archaeological
fieldwork within the Elsecar Heritage Action Zone.

Further afield, Hemer’s collaboration with multiple partners in excavating an early medieval
cemetery, with exhibitions at St Patrick’s Chapel and St David’s Cathedral, Pembrokeshire (during
which the Cathedral had >70,000 visitors), and production and screening of a documentary film of
the project, is the basis of one of our impact case studies. This has been highly successful in
increasing the diversity of audiences, and offering representation in the wider heritage field to more
peripheral areas of the UK, in particular promoting engagement with the Welsh language and
bringing accessible science-based archaeology to a neglected Welsh-speaking audience.
Albarella’s collaborative research and design scheme for his project People and Animals at Norton
Priory worked with the Priory Museum and Gardens Trust to facilitate a new partnership between
the Department and the Trust. Under Kuykendall’s lead, we are currently investing in active
partnerships with Creswell Crags to develop advocacy for this unique and ancient heritage site that
makes our local region internationally significant, presenting Creswell effectively to the public and
advancing international recognition of the site that will increase tourism and boost the local
economy.

Internationally, we have developed a focus on the Mediterranean, Levant, and Black Sea, using
the geographical and cultural specialities of staff members, their long-standing collaborations with
regional academic, public and commercial partners to operationalise our vision, and extend
engagement with museums and heritage organisations beyond the UK. In the Black Sea,
collaborating in plans with Sinop city and Sinop Museum to promote cultural heritage and tourism
by developing local historic sites, Rempel and Sherratt have developed visualisations of the Sinop
fortification wall for public display, while public lectures in Sinop, the UK and USA have increased

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
wider public knowledge of this early Greek colonial settlement. Equally, adding cultural value to
cash crops can enhance social, cultural, and economic sustainability, and Jones and Halstead
have worked with villagers in the eastern Mediterranean (Jordan, Greece), who have responded to
recent economic crises by growing ‘new’ cash crops (including primitive cereals) or collecting
native food plants (e.g. herbs, spices), which they brand in terms of their ‘antiquity’.

Through MEMOLA (Day and Doonan), Sheffield was involved in development of EU Commission
Policy Briefings on Agrobiodiversity as Mediterranean European Heritage, Soils as Cultural
Heritage and the Impact of European Water Policy on Cultural Heritage. This was achieved by
integration of archaeology, history, and ethnography; engagement with communities through
seminars, schools, universities; and sponsorship of local business launches for sustainable food
and promotion of sustainable agritourism (involving 326 meetings with local administrations, 50
with regional bodies, 16 national and 5 with EU Policy bodies). The project’s success in reshaping
EU policy, while addressing local concerns relevant to people’s every-day lives, reflects our
strategy of applying high-level scientific research to the resolution of current, real-world problems
of ecological, economic, and cultural sustainability. Similarly, current PGR and PGT research is
informing the historical context and local sustainability elements of the Greek government’s 2021
bid (linked to the 1821 Revolution Bicentenary) for UNESCO Cultural Landscape listing of the
mountainous Zagori area.

4.3 Contributions to research base

Sheffield archaeological staff play an active role in national and international academies and
learned societies. For example, as a Fellow of the British Academy, Jones served as member of
the governing Council (Trustee); Hemer is President of the Society for the Study of Childhood in
the Past; Willmott a Council member for the Royal Archaeological Institute, President of the
Society for Church Archaeology and Archaeological Adviser to the Diocese of Sheffield;
Kuykendall a member of the Board of Trustees at Creswell Crags Museum & Heritage Centre and
of the World Heritage Site Nomination Committee for Creswell Crags; Jackson on the managing
committee for l’Association Internationale pour l’Histoire du Verre; Jones a Vice-President of the
British School at Athens (BSA); and Moreland participated in the Archaeology Forum at the British
Academy, a small group charged with considering the state of archaeology as a subject today.

Staff have held prestigious fellowships at a number of overseas institutes (Day, Margo Tytus
Fellow, University of Cincinnati; Carroll, Hugh Last Fellow, British School at Rome (BSR); Rempel,
Research Fellowship at University College Roosevelt in the Netherlands; Carroll, Charles Eliot
Norton Memorial Lectureship, Canada) further strengthening our international profile. They have
also served on several national and international grant awarding panels including: the ERC
Starting Grant evaluation panel and British Academy Fellowship Scheme (Jones); as Chair of the
Academy of Finland’s Research Council for Culture and Society Archaeology panel (Moreland); as
the archaeologist on the Wellcome Medical Humanities review panel (Craig-Atkins); on academic
appointment panels for several Greek HEIs (Day, Halstead, Bennet); and the NERC peer review
college (Jones), as well as undertaking external reviewing for more than 30 national and
international funding bodies.

During the assessment period, Sheffield hosted seven international conferences in a broad range
of research fields: BABAO (2015); Together, Connected Communities Heritage Network (2015),
Contemporary and Historical Archaeology in Theory Group (2015); Society for Post-Medieval
Archaeology (2016); the Sheffield Centre for Aegean Archaeology (SCAA) Round Table (2016);
the Association for Environmental Archaeology (2019), the Society for the Study of Childhood in
the Past (2019). Our staff have delivered over 80 invited lectures during the assessment period,

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
including more than 50 conference keynotes, high-profile lectures and invitations to institutions
outside the UK (in Europe, Near and Far East, Australasia, North and South America): e.g. 60th
Anniversary Mycenaean Seminar keynote (Bennet 2014); Society for American Archaeology
'Itinerant Matters and Hybrid Objects' symposium (Day 2015); BSR 'City of Rome' keynote (Carroll
2016); Crossroad Archaeology in memoriam K Randsborg, Copenhagen (Moreland 2017); Society
for Study of Childhood in the Past, Mexico (Hemer 2017); ‘Interregional Networks in the Eastern
Mediterranean 900-600 BCE'’, Chicago (Sherratt 2018); 'Glass in Archaeology: Economic and
Artistic Exchanges' conference, Taiwan (Jackson 2018); Accordia Lecture, London (Albarella
2019); Shandong University Summer School (Halstead 2020).

Our staff are on the editorial boards of 15 journals including the Annual of the British School at
Athens (Bennet, Sherratt (editors), Halstead); Journal of Archaeological Science (Jones); Medieval
Archaeology, Archaeometry (Jackson); Anthropozoologica (Albarella); Childhood in the Past
(Hemer); Oxford Journal of Archaeology, Journal of Greek Archaeology (Sherratt). Since 2014,
The SCAA (ECRs and established staff) has published three volumes arising from its Round
Tables, with a fourth in press. Staff have reviewed for c.100 journals with scientific,
anthropological, and archaeological focus, reflecting our research’s interdisciplinary nature: e.g.
American Journal of Physical Anthropology, Antiquity, Current Anthropology, European Journal of
Archaeology, Evolution, Holocene, Journal of Hellenic Studies, Nature Plants, Paleorient, PNAS,
Proceedings of the Prehistoric Society, Science and World Archaeology.




                                                                                           Page 16
