Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of St Andrews

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 14: Geography and Environmental Studies

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Strategic aims and achievements

 Research in the School of Geography and Sustainable Development (SGSD) aims to deepen
 knowledge of environmental and social processes and how they are connected, at multiple
 temporal and spatial scales.

 Our key strategic aims are to:

    1. Analyse and provide answers to a range of global challenges of pressing public concern,
       through the development of innovative theoretical and topical research orientations and
       methods of dissemination.
    2. Promote and use novel staff collaborations that integrate natural and social science and
       humanities approaches, and that are embedded in and responsive to addressing real
       world problems.
    3. Use and expand the links between Geography and Sustainable Development (SD) in
       ways that enrich their analytical, critical, and policy-relevant qualities and concerns.
    4. Develop constructive and critical approaches to research design and collaboration that
       are not only theoretically inventive and ethically significant but can also make a real
       difference on the ground.
    5. Nurture an energetic and supportive research environment that values the diversity of
       staff and their interests.

 This strategy links long-standing strengths in glaciology and population and health research
 (recognised in REF2014, when we were returned to UoA 14 as part of a combined School of
 Geography and Geosciences) with new and rejuvenated areas of expertise in palaeoecology,
 international development, and sustainability. Our researchers grapple with global and planetary
 problems and complexities that are in the public and political spotlight, including climate change,
 anti-bacterial resistance, biodiversity loss, ethnic inequalities, rapid population change, national
 and international migration policies, zoonotic disease, rewilding, land and resource exploitation,
 and, recently, coronavirus geographies and demographics.

 As a School, we approach these complex topics through growing and innovative staff
 collaborations. We also believe that high quality research, meaningful to its creators and
 valuable to its users, comes in diverse forms. This includes large- and small-grant research
 projects, multi-actor research and impact initiatives, the individual pursuit of theoretical research,
 and work with academic and non-academic collaborators. We respect that research is moulded
 in varying and sometimes challenging circumstances, and strive to value equally a range of
 ways of designing and delivering research. This ethos accords with the University’s tenet that
 scholarship and qualitative measures of attainment are prime pathways to, and indicators of,
 world-leading research.

 The SGSD’s research approach supports our strategic aims in four ways. By: (1) building on the
 School’s core expertise, (2) fostering collaboration, (3) focusing on regionalised communities,
 and (4) delivering real-world impact. Our research spans and connects natural and social
 science and humanities approaches within Geography, and our cross-over Geography-SD
 identity has become central to our aspirations and distinctiveness, both as a School (and how it
 is regarded internationally) and within the University and its Environmental Sustainability Board
 (ESB). This broad sensitivity to questions of sustainability –in everyday life as well as research
 projects –comes with an ethical vision of inquiry through the co-production of knowledge with the
 non-academic world.


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our research collaborations and outputs have global reach and impact whilst also drawing on a
 depth of local studies, policy questions, and community issues. Our researchers share concerns
 with how places and environments are constructed, connected, and stressed. As well as our
 long-lasting commitment to Scotland, which both shapes and is shaped by international
 ventures, we work in over 70 locations in the UK and a further 100 worldwide (Figure 1).

 Our strategic aims are being realised through:

    1) Our re-organisation as a School of Geography and Sustainable Development in
       January 2017. This enabled us to think in concerted and creative ways about global
       challenges and approach questions of inclusion and diversity with research partners,
       especially in the Global South (Section 2). It has helped to build on our distinctiveness as
       one of the first geography schools in the UK, and still the only one in Scotland, with a
       core focus on sustainability. SD sensibilities are becoming fully embedded across the
       range of our research and impact activity.

    2) Staff appointments (including a desire to end fixed-term contracts), and the creation of
       a new research group, GOSSIP, in 2016. Since REF2014 our FTE for Category A staff
       has increased from 18 to 28. New directions in research leadership include 5
       professorial appointments (Benn, Bennett, Kulu, Laurie, Sharp), 9 new lectureships
       (Bolch, Cowton, Hale, Hope, Keenan, Lawson, Okafor-Yarwood, Roucoux, Simpson,
       Vradis –5 of them early career), within a vibrant SGSD community of 20 postdoctoral
       fellows and 47 PhD students. 6 staff (Demšar, Lawson, McCollum, Reid, Roucoux,
       White) have been promoted during the REF period, and 5 recently appointed staff (Hope,
       Okafor-Yarwood, Sharp, Simpson, Vradis), recruited from very competitive applicant
       fields, are driving our Geography-SD and international development agendas forward
       with interests in development conflicts, maritime security, migration, political ecology,
       urban public space, and zoonotic disease. SGSD also provides an intellectual anchor for
       the University’s growing sustainability strategy and ESB (see Institution-Level
       Environment Statement, ILES, 2.5).

    3) A broadening in the scope of research projects (by area, theme and size), including
       targeting of grant applications to new initiatives and synergies in particular parts of the
       world (see ‘regionalised clusters’ –below; Section 4), and responding to the increasingly
       ‘strategic’ and ‘blended’ (natural science/social science) character of funding calls,
       especially from UK Research Councils (UKRI). This trajectory is underpinned by
       traditional values of academic scholarship and a shared commitment to tackling real
       world problems and offering relevant policy solutions.

 Below is evidence of how these aims are being met (for FTE Category A staff):

    •   Research productivity and quality: 600 outputs; over 80% in peer-reviewed journals.
    •   Collaborative reach: over 85% of outputs involving co-authors and collaborators from
        200+ places worldwide.
    •   Research awards: an upward trend in research grant awards, totalling £9.33M,
        spanning 157 research projects.
    •   Impact: a growing proportion of projects (23% of total, encompassing £7.45M) with an
        explicit impact dimension.
    •   Clustered knowledge: growing regionalised concentrations of research beyond the UK,
        especially in glacial regions, Europe, Central and South America, and Sub-Saharan
        Africa (Figure 3).
    •   Research income and distribution: An almost threefold rise in grant applications and
        research income, now more evenly distributed across SGSD than in REF2014 (making
        us both more academically diverse and financially resilient).
    •   Esteem: staff hold notable professional leadership and advisory roles within the
        University, including Austin, Bennett, Okafor-Yarwood –ESB, Clayton –Strategy Board,
        and Laurie –SFC-GCRF Director. They also do so for national and international

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        professional bodies and committees, including: Benn –UK Government All-Party
        Parliamentary Group for the Polar Regions, International Thwaites Glacier Collaboration;
        Kulu –Vice-President, European Association for Population Studies, Member of the
        Expert Advisory Group on Population and Migration at the Scottish Government; Laurie –
        Honorary Secretary, Expeditions and Fieldwork, Council Member and Trustee, Royal
        Geographical Society; White –Chair of Scotland’s United Nations University Regional
        Centre of Expertise in Education for Sustainable Development: Learning for
        Sustainability Scotland. Staff have also been the recipients of esteemed awards,
        including Ballantyne – Geological Society Lyell Medal; Benn –RSGS Coppock Research
        Medal and Fellowship; Okafor-Yarwood –African Community of Practice Outstanding
        Achievement Award, Richemont International; Sharp –Royal Society of Edinburgh
        Fellowship; visiting fellowships and professorships, including Sharp –Central Otago; and
        we are the only Geography/Environmental Studies school in the UK with two winners of
        the RGS-IBG Busk Medal for Social Inclusion –Laurie, Sharp.
    •   League tables: SGSD topped the Guardian University Guide 2020 and Times Good
        University Guide 2020 subject rankings for Geography and is 2nd in The Complete
        University Guide 2021, underscoring that we see research and teaching excellence as
        fundamentally linked.

 Strategic priorities

 SGSD has four strategic priorities for the future, with further grant success, strategies for new
 staff appointments, and the emergence of new and creative research groupings and
 collaborations key to each:

    1) To evolve research in core areas that distinguish the School internationally, i.e.: (1)
       glaciology –glacial modelling, remote sensing; (2) palaeoecology –Holocene, tropical and
       temperate peatlands, origins of biodiversity; (3) critical development geographies –
       community, environment-health, postcolonial, political ecology; (4) place, health, and
       well-being –health inequalities; contextual and environmental effects; (5) population
       processes –demographic change; migration; longitudinal and life-course studies;
       population and spatial analysis; and (6), sustainability agendas –behaviour change,
       biodiversity conflict and conservation, public space, maritime security, and green energy.

    2) To promote world-leading collaborative research, developed at the intersections of core
       research expertise, Geography-SD linkages, and with growing recognition of the
       importance of GIS, data analytics, and mixed methods. This threefold –Geography-SD,
       data analytics, mixed methods –priority is an organic element of research group activity
       and makes the boundaries between them porous. It is also promoted within SGSD
       through I-Power and BEGIN (see below), and is aligned with strategic funding calls
       through the SFC-GCRF initiative.

    3) To nurture our regionalised clusters of research and impact expertise (Figure 3) in
       Central and Latin America (Bolivia, Brazil, Columbia, Ecuador, Guatemala, Mexico,
       Peru); Sub-Saharan Africa (Cameroon, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ghana, Kenya,
       Madagascar, Malawi, Nigeria, Rwanda, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabwe); glacial
       regions (especially Antarctic, Greenland, High Mountain Asia); and the industrialised
       West (especially France, Germany, the Netherlands, Nordic countries, Spain, the UK,
       and USA). We also have a nascent focus on Central Asia. This work lies at the forefront
       of a research effort that: (a) has a commitment to local communities and ecologies, and
       to understanding how they are embedded in wider global challenges and drives for
       change; and (b) thinks carefully and acts scrupulously with regard to how researchers
       are involved in the way knowledge is produced and communicated, how indigenous
       agendas can be supported, and how the nurturing of relationships with non-academic
       partners can effect change and hold dominant actors and institutions to account.



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    4) To increase impact by communicating the value of academic research through these
       partnerships and networks, as demonstrated in SGSD Impact Case Studies on: (a)
       demographic and migration issues facing Scotland; (b) Blue Carbon and the protection of
       marine ecosystems; and (c) peatland preservation as a means of counteracting climate
       change and supporting cultural rejuvenation. Bringing further research projects with an
       impact dimension to fruition involves nurturing myriad, and sometimes long-standing,
       collaborations; for example, around One Health approaches in Africa, multi-scale
       governance and security issues around fisheries in Central and West Africa, El Niño in
       Peru, and recreational sports and well-being in Scotland (Figure 3 –Section 4).

 These priorities are embedded in SGSD conversations and structures, from research colloquia
 and mentoring platforms to seed corn funding and large grant applications, as well as in
 fieldwork projects and collaborations. There are vertical and horizontal dimensions to SGSD’s
 management structure, with a system of line management steered though committees matched
 with collective decision-making and policy discussion at the School’s Staff Board and other open
 forums (recently around School strategy, workload principles, Equality, Diversity, and Inclusivity
 (EDI; Section 2), and unravelling privilege in research and the curriculum). Strategic planning
 around staff appointments is based on a desire for researchers with world-leading records in
 core specialist areas who can also foster new synergies across the School.




             Figure 1: Locations of recent SGSD research (also: Section 4 – Figure 3)

 Research and impact structures and processes

 Strategic planning is steered through School committees and research groups, in liaison with the
 University’s Research and Innovation Service (RIS) and Business Development staff (BD). We
 have a School Research and Impact Committee (SRIC), chaired by the School’s Director of
 Research (DoR) and reporting to the SGSD Management Group (SMG), and the Staff Board,
 meeting c.4 times per semester to enable academic staff and other School representatives to
 discuss strategy and policy issues. The DoR’s membership of the Royal Scottish Geographical
 Society’s Research and Knowledge Exchange (RSGS-RKEC) provides an important line of
 communication between St Andrews and other Scottish Geography departments. The SRIC is
 composed of leaders of the School’s three research groups (see below), the School’s Director of
 Impact (DoI), Director of Postgraduate Research (DoPGR), the Chair of the School’s EDI
 Committee (EDIC), a member of postdoctoral research community, and the Head of School
 (HoS). Confidential research matters relating to staff are discussed by the HoS and DoR, and in

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 consultation, where needed, with members of the SRIC or SMG. A separate Postgraduate
 Research Committee, chaired by the DoPGR, and composed of staff, research students, and
 fellows, also reports to the SMG.

 Research groups

 The School has three research groups, each with its own lead, budget, and research events and
 colloquia: Environmental Change (ECRG), Population and Health (PHRG), and GOSSIP
 (Geographies of Sustainability, Society, Inequalities and Possibilities).

 Staff, research students and fellows are associated with at least one research group, but more
 than a quarter of staff participate in plural groups, something indicative of our fundamentally
 collaborative approach. Membership is given below by group and primary (and supplementary)
 affiliation:

 ECRG –REF1 staff: 12 (3 also in other research groups); PDRAs: 8 (1); PGR: 20 (5)
 PHRG –REF1 staff 7 (3); PDRA 8 (1); PGR: 15 (10)
 GOSSIP –REF1 staff: 9 (7); PDRA: 2 (2); PGR: 12 (3)

 The aspirations and activities of these groups play a prominent role in SGSD research strategy
 and the practicalities of how research and impact are designed and delivered. They bring
 cohesion and consistency to the way research is forged, providing SGSD members with a
 common reference point for academic engagement, career mentoring, research support, and the
 development of research ideas and impact initiatives (Sections 2; 4). Since 2013 we have also
 had a School-level research institute, I-Power (Institute for Population, Well-being and
 Environmental Research), chaired by the DoR and set up with to meet our strategic aims by
 promoting research ideas that cut across the research groups and Geography-SD spectrum to
 reach wider public audiences.

 Each SGSD research group has a budget and web page on the School’s website, and holds
 regular seminars with invited speakers (c. 15 seminars per year per group) alongside bi-weekly
 ‘brown bag’ seminars that provide academic staff, postdoctoral researchers and PhD students
 with regular opportunities to discuss research plans and findings. They also organise bespoke
 methods training and mentoring, and annual strategy and planning Away Days (Section 2).

 ECRG

 The ECRG examines the causes and consequences of global environmental change and the
 current climate crisis. The group seeks solutions to key policy and sustainability challenges
 around climate and issues of environmental management, with a combination of theoretical and
 field-based approaches. It has undergone significant reorganisation and growth since REF2014,
 with two professorial appointments and four lectureships to build capacity in glaciology and
 palaeoecology. Within glaciology, world-leading research is being conducted on modelling
 glacier dynamics and the impact of iceberg calving on ice sheet stability and sea-level rise. An
 important new area of glaciological research is cryospheric response to climate change in High
 Asia, through the application of remote sensing and field techniques. Palaeoecological research
 focuses on both natural and anthropogenic environmental change, including ecosystem
 resilience to human disturbance, with an innovative focus on the extent of and threats to tropical
 peatlands and the assessment and valuation of marine and terrestrial carbon stores.

 Activity in this group is shaped by a suite of research and impact priorities and high-profile
 projects (upon which researchers are either P-Is or Co-Is), including: (1) glaciology – CALISMO
 (Calving Laws for Ice Sheet Models, NERC); DOMINOS (Disintegration of Marine Ice Sheets:
 Novel Optimized Simulations, which is part of the prestigious International Thwaites Glacier
 Collaboration) (Section 4); and Glacier Mass Changes in High Mountain Asia (Chinese Academy
 of Sciences); and (2) palaeoecology –Valuing Blue Carbon in Scotland's Marine Protected Area
 Network (NERC); Carbon Storage in Amazonian Peatlands: Distribution and Dynamics (NERC);

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Valuing Intact Tropical Peatlands (Leverhulme); and Protecting Biodiversity and Sustainable
 Livelihoods in the Wetlands of Peruvian Amazonia (British Council).

 PHRG

 The PHRG is one of the UK’s leading centres for spatial population and health research. It deals
 with population processes and health inequalities at societal and individual levels, chiefly in the
 Global North, but with an increasing interest in the Global South and in growing liaison with the
 School of Medicine. The group seeks solutions to key population and policy challenges facing
 industrialised countries, including increased international migration and social cohesion,
 residential segregation and housing inequalities, low fertility and partnership instability, and
 population ageing and health inequalities. It combines demographic, sociological and
 geographical approaches, and devises innovative applications of computational, statistical and
 mixed methods to novel population and health data linkages. The group has been strengthened
 since 2014 by a professorial appointment and three lectureships. PHRG members play a leading
 role in the ESRC Centre for Population Change (CPC), a joint initiative between the Universities
 of Southampton, St Andrews and Stirling, and with the Office for National Statistics and National
 Records of Scotland as partners. The group also hosts ADRC-Scotland, the Census and
 Administrative Data Longitudinal Studies (CALLS) Hub (until 2018), and the ESRC Centre on
 Dynamics of Ethnicity (CoDE) (also Section 4).

 Activity in this group is currently shaped by the following research and impact priorities and high-
 profile projects (upon which researchers are either P-Is or Co-Is), encompassing: (1)
 understanding the causes of low fertility in high-income countries; funded projects include
 FertilityTrends –Understanding Recent Fertility Trends in the UK and Improving Methodologies
 for Fertility Forecasting (ESRC) and CPC Fertility Strand –The Impact of Housing Availability on
 Childbearing Decisions (ESRC); (2) drivers of European and international migration; funded
 projects include MMRP –Mediterranean Migration Research Programme (DfID, ESRC), and
 CPC Migration and Mobilities Strand –International Students (ESRC); (3) migrant integration
 (employment, housing and family trajectories), funded projects include MigrantLife –
 Understanding Life Trajectories of Immigrants and Their Descendants in Europe and Projecting
 Future Trends (ERC); (4) internal migration and residential mobility in high-income countries,
 funded projects include CPC Migration and Mobilities Strand –Residential Mobility (ESRC); and
 (5) health inequalities and challenges in Sub-Saharan Africa (with the School of Medicine),
 funded projects include HATUA –Holistic Approach to Unravel Antibacterial Resistance in East
 Africa (MRC).

 GOSSIP

 Established in 2016, GOSSIP emerged from a series of boundary-crossing conversations
 between the School’s critical human geographers and SD scholars. The acronym flags the
 group’s dialogical orientation, with conversations crossing natural and social science and
 humanities boundaries and epistemologies. GOSSIP is committed to conceptual debate and
 research that is grounded in everyday realities of power and inequality and explores new critical
 agendas and possibilities for development and sustainability. The group uses mixed methods
 and a wide variety of data and is committed to methodological innovation.

 GOSSIP researchers work with various forms of behavioural, decolonial, development, feminist,
 pedagogic, political, ecology, and postcolonial theory, and in a range of modes including
 advocacy, artistic, historical, linguistic, participatory and translation. The group shares a common
 concern with co-producing knowledge and training with overseas and non-academic partners
 (Impact Strategy; Section 4), and with questioning norms shaping environment-society
 relationships at all scales, from those of the body and microbe to the international arena. They
 are also attentive to other ways of ‘looking backwards across space and time’ in the quest for
 more hopeful futures. GOSSIP is a key driver of the School’s ambition to nurture the interface of
 Geography and SD, and this aspect of School strategy has been fostered through two
 professorial appointments and four lectureships.

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Activity in this group is currently shaped by a suite of research and impact priorities and high-
 profile projects (upon which researchers are either P-Is or Co-Is), including: Fishing and Farming
 in the Desert: El Niño Food System Opportunities in the Context Climate Change in Sechura,
 Peru (AHRC, SFC-GCRF); Homes That Care: Exploring Health Smart Homes In Scotland
 (RSE); GoGolf Europe (EU); SEEDZ –Social, Economic and Environmental Drivers of Zoonoses
 in Tanzania, and OOHTZ –Operationalizing One Health Interventions in Tanzania (DfID,
 BBSRC, ESRC); Maritime Governance, Safety and Security in the Gulf of Guinea (UN, One
 Earth Future); Whose Crisis? The Global COVID-19 Crisis from the Perspective of Communities
 in Africa (AHRC, SFC-GCRF); and SCALE –Supporting Skills, Competencies and Learning for
 Engagement in Sustainable Forest Management, Guatemala, Mexico (GCRF-ODA).
 Researchers in the group also hold funding from the BA, BBSRC, Carnegie, Leverhulme, MRC,
 NERC, and the R&A St Andrews.

 I-Power and other School-wide research initiatives

 I-Power has an umbrella role to facilitate external speakers, visiting fellows, and lunchtime talks
 and reading groups, as well as hosting 4–6 high-profile public lectures annually by distinguished
 international speakers from around the world. The Neil Smith Lecture, established 2013, is
 integral to our international profile (the lectures have been published in the geography journal
 Antipode) and a similar event, The Simon Pepper, is being established. In 2019–2020, I-Power
 hosted one of the University’s first visiting Global Fellows: a two-month visit by a world-leading
 climate change scholar, Glen MacDonald, including a series of public lectures and interactions
 with staff and students.

 I-Power has helped to seed corn ideas, and support staff interactions, across SGSD research
 groups, including: (ECRG-GOSSIP) Food Security and Health for East Africa (EPSRC), and
 (ECRG-GOSSIP) Gaining Cultural Heritage Status for Urarina Textiles: Peatland Livelihoods
 and Ecological Conservation in Loreto, Peru (SFC-GCRF). Further projects make explicit
 connections between local (Scottish) and international expertise in specific areas, including
 Student Mobility and Constitutional Change (ESRC); New Residential Mobilities in Scotland
 (ESRC); and Carbon Storage in Intertidal Environments (NERC).

 The Bell Edwards Geographic Data Institute (BEGIN), established in 2018 in part from an
 alumnus bequest, brings research, skills and support in data analytics to researchers across
 SGSD. BEGIN currently leads on two projects: Uncovering the Mechanisms of Migratory Bird
 Navigation with Big Data Analytics (Leverhulme); and Exploring the Effect of Location and
 Environment on Human Mobility Flows with Big Data Analytics (ESRC).

 Collectively, these research groups and School-wide initiatives have been associated with over
 70 research and impact events per year, and in the period 2016–2019 the School hosted 63
 female and 93 male external speakers. We strive to increase our profile as a School that links a
 breadth of environmental, social and sustainability concerns at a high intellectual level with a
 grounded sense of the importance of impact. Our commitment is to foster rigorous research and
 realise its transformative potential, in a collegial research environment that encourages personal
 and collective scholarly endeavour, growth, and connection with others.

 Research integrity

 We strive to make our outputs easy to discover and share, both through the SGSD website and
 Facebook and Twitter platforms, and with all staff having ORCID accounts linked to their
 research pages. The University’s Research Integrity Policy is included in our annually revised
 Staff Handbook and all research project applications are reviewed by the School’s Ethics
 Committee to ensure that staff and students adhere to the University’s principles of good
 research.



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Impact approach

 Our approach is rooted in a belief that impact comes from an ability to work across theory and
 practice and build meaningful and durable collaborations. By facilitating research of the highest
 standard to meet the needs of specific groups and sectors, SGSD has built on its impact
 accomplishments of REF2014 and embraced University strategy in this area.

 Our ICSs demonstrate how academic research, when developed in an environment designed to
 facilitate engagement with policy makers and community stakeholders, can transform and
 translate good science and scholarship into tools of considerable political and practical utility and
 impact. Each ICS illustrates aspects of our approach to impact and its diverse reach, although a
 considerable amount of the impact of the School’s research is of course outside these specific
 case studies.

 Over the current REF period almost all School staff have enabled or been involved in impact
 initiatives, spawning 36 funded projects (from £2.5K to £2.5M). The SFC-GCRF platform –with
 10 SGSD projects, and Laurie its current University Director –has been key in developing our
 impact agenda. Impact initiatives (including Valuing Tropical Peatlands; Malawi’s Disaster
 Management Strategy; Free and Open Source Software for Movement Ecology) foster staff
 synergies across research groups. Some demonstrate our commitment to Scotland and Fife,
 including Blue Carbon Resources: Contributing to Scotland’s Climate-Change Policy Goals,
 Rowing the Waves: Fife Coastal Communities, and Migration and Constitutional Change in
 Scotland. Others are threaded through wider national and international ventures and include
 Valuing Intact Tropical Peatlands and Changing the Way Government Identifies Small Areas of
 Need and Distributes Funding in the UK and Beyond.

 As a School, we do not have a one-size-fits-all approach to impact, as both the ‘impactful’
 potential of our research and collaborative nature of our partners and beneficiaries are diverse.
 Instead, we use a six-pillar approach that encompasses the following (examples in Section 4):
     1) Effective mass communication using electronic and social media, including interviews on
        TV news and current affairs programmes, and a prominent online presence (podcasts,
        blogs, Twitter, Facebook, Instagram).
     2) Formalised Knowledge Exchange (KE) practices including involvement of professional,
        dedicated expertise; support staff, for example, at the CPC and Administrative Data
        Research Network and Centre on Dynamics of Ethnicity, Scotland (ADRC), whose role
        involves user engagement and research impact; the RSGS-RKEC annual KE fund for
        postdoctoral researchers.
     3) Participatory research: e.g., Learning for Sustainability in Scotland, and participatory
        methods in health prevention and disease understanding in Africa (e.g. HATUA, SEEDZ).
     4) Engagement with those involved in policy formation: monthly CPC Brown Bag seminar
        series, work with the Scottish and UK Governments over migration policy and climate
        change, including the foundation in 2019 of a RSGS-RKEC-led ‘Research data base’ to
        provide the policy sector and other research users with a list of expertise and specialisms
        across Scottish geography units.
     5) Outreach and training: training local authorities on how to use population statistics;
        GeoBus; Fife Schools events; and recently the creation of a dedicated Outreach Officer
        (staff member within SGSD).
     6) Private sector connections, especially with the energy sector.


 Section 2. People

 Staffing strategy and development

 The cornerstone of our staffing strategy is the appointment of outstanding researchers at all
 levels who can drive and augment the School’s existing and emerging strengths and strategic
 aims (Section 1). The School’s overarching objective is to provide staff at all levels with the time,

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 training, resources and convivial intellectual setting to fulfil their research and impact
 potential, within a changing and increasingly competitive labour market and funding
 environment. The School seeks to recruit and nurture individuals and groups to achieve
 research and impact of the highest quality that is also inclusive, inspires confidence, and strives
 for innovation within a healthy work environment. This strategy includes the appointment of early
 career researchers on permanent contracts and encouraging them towards promotion, after a
 period dominated by senior appointments.

 Time, training and intellectual environment

 Research training is a career-long undertaking, vital to research leadership and publication. New
 staff are assigned an experienced mentor to help with all aspects of research and teaching,
 including project design and implementation, publication strategy, research-led teaching
 initiatives, and postgraduate recruitment and supervision. Such internal personal and
 professional mentoring and training is augmented by that offered through the University’s central
 training service (ILES, 3.2). The School provides research resources from its yearly operations
 budget to support staff and postgraduate attendance at conferences and workshops (run by, for
 example, ESRC, NERC, SAGES, and national and international geography societies), and for
 assistance with fieldwork and research visits.

 Staff can apply for research and impact leave (one semester in eight), and applications
 encompass funding capture, work on research outputs, research visits to institutions and/or
 fieldwork, and time to develop collaborations and impact cases studies. On average, two staff
 are on leave in any given semester. A School Manager (appointed 2017) has assumed a range
 of administrative tasks formerly undertaken by academic staff, releasing research time.

 Delivering impact (Section 4) is integral to School’s research ethos and view of staff
 development. Impact activity is supported by School and University budgets: the former
 overseen by the DoI, the latter by a University Research Impact Team. Requests for funding are
 considered on a case-by-case basis, chiefly to organise knowledge exchange events, to employ
 people to facilitate impact activity, and for equipment and travel for knowledge dissemination and
 interactions with stakeholders.

 All staff have personal research accounts and are further rewarded by receiving 3.5% of
 overheads into them (the School receives 7% and puts the other half towards PGR
 scholarships), and £500 into them when they submit, as PI, a full research funding application
 that is costed over £100K. Since its inception in 2015 more than 20 staff have received this
 incentive. New non-professorial staff are allocated start-up funds of £5K, or more as
 commensurate with their needs, to establish their research programme, while new Professorial
 staff receive a larger fund negotiated with the Master.

 These policies help us to achieve our strategic research aims by incentivising and facilitating
 both individual and collaborative endeavour, and conference and networking initiatives, for junior
 and established researchers alike. They are augmented by yearly staff annual research
 meetings with the HoS and DoI and research group Away Days. School and University
 workshops and advisory meetings regarding planning and preparation of research outputs and
 impact, and internal (pre-submission) reviewing of research grant application and papers.

 We foster a stimulating intellectual environment through regular research meetings within
 our research groups, as well as through I-Power and BEGIN, designed to share research
 experience, promote research synergies, drive research initiatives, and widen research
 horizons. Agendas are wide-ranging and meetings include in-house research seminars, ‘journal
 clubs’ designed to share new ideas emerging in the literature, presentations by visiting
 researchers, and roundtable discussions of work in progress on doctoral and postdoctoral
 research projects. They also offer opportunities to share technical skills and experience in grant
 applications and research management; chances to develop new research collaborations and
 disseminate information regarding opportunities for research funding, publication and impact;

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and provide space for debate on research and appointment strategy, research infrastructure,
 succession planning, and the award of Honorary positions and fellowships.
 Postdoctoral research staff (PDRA) play a valued and integral role in research seminars, journal
 clubs, and research Away Days, and a PDRA representative sits on the SRIC. Over the
 REF2021 period we have had 36 PDRAs (currently 28), some working on specific projects who
 have been supported to achieve subsequent career success (e.g. Lecturer), with others
 remaining as valuable long-term members of SGSD, working on a succession of projects and
 becoming P-Is in their own right. To support the career development of this category of research
 staff, SGSD has used the opportunity given by the recent opening of the academic promotion
 process to research staff to support the application for promotion for two of these longer-term
 research fellows, one of which was successful. Additionally, to support the career development
 of postdoctoral research staff and facilitate the transition between PhD towards an independent
 research career, the School has organised internally targeted career development sessions with
 more experienced members of staff of the School.
 Postgraduate training and administration are managed by the School Postgraduate Research
 Committee, which comprises elected postgraduate representatives and academic staff
 representatives. Four times per year research students convene a Postgraduate Forum, to
 discuss postgraduate issues, and to organise an annual postgraduate conference and social
 events, which are well attended by academic staff. All research students have at least two
 supervisors within the School responsible for overseeing research planning and progress, with
 fortnightly mentoring of first-year research students. We run a buddy system, pairing up senior
 PhD students with freshers, to further aid their integration into the School.

 Progress is formally monitored through an annual review for which PhD students prepare a
 presentation and progress report. The presentation is delivered at the annual PGR conference
 which is followed by the formal review meeting with members of the PGR Committee. The
 organisation of the PGR conference is led by PGR students (supported by the School) and the
 event is an important opportunity for students to review and share their work and receive
 constructive feedback.

 Research students are likewise an integral part of our research community, and since 2014
 research student numbers have increased to 40 registered PhD students (an increase from 34 in
 2014), or about 1.3 PhD students per academic staff member at any one time. The number of
 annual PhD new starts has been steady, from 45 in 2013–14 to 43 in 2017–18, and we continue
 to think about ways of increasing our PhD numbers while retaining our commitment to recruit
 and train the highest quality researchers. Of the registered PhD students, over 60% are from
 outside the UK. Of these, approximately 50% are from EU countries (Croatia, Czech Republic,
 Denmark, France, Germany, Greece Poland, Romania, The Netherlands and Slovenia) and 50%
 from elsewhere overseas (including Middle East, Indian Subcontinent, Africa, East Asia and
 North America).

 In the 2019–20 academic year, PGR funding came about equally from internal funding and
 external sources, with just one self-funded student. Funding sources include UKRI via the
 Scottish Graduate School of Social Sciences (ESRC), SUPER and IAPETUS (NERC) DTPs
 (currently, 12 students receive UKRI funding); the SAGES collective; the China Scholarship
 Council; National Science Foundation and Overseas governments (ILES, 2.5). The School is a
 partner for PhD training with the Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research (6 students,
 2017–2022). The School and the University’s Postgraduate College, St Leonard’s, also fund
 studentships with matched funding being prioritised. In 2019 the School invested in two fully
 funded PhD studentships, open to international competition. Overall, the School has seen an
 increase in funding for PGRs by 25% between 2013 and 2020 (c. £409,000 to £507,000), with a
 concurrent increase in the funding per student from external sources over this period. A third of
 PGR funding arrangements involve partnerships between the School/University and external
 sources, demonstrating the School’s high level of engagement with match-funding initiatives.



                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All research students are required to undertake generic and research-specific training. We follow
 the Vitae Research Development Framework to monitor and plan appropriate training as an
 ongoing element of supervision and review. The University’s GRADskills programme runs
 induction events, workshops, and courses on study and presentation skills, maths and statistics,
 professional skills (such as fundraising, marketing, public speaking, staging events, interviews,
 and time management), transferable skills and careers. Our students have free access to, and
 make use of, in-sessional English Language support provided by English Language Teaching
 unit of the University and are able to audit 5000-level research methods modules delivered by
 the School (and accredited by UKRI for +1 training).

 The School's PGR Committee runs an annual session where staff work with students on their
 CVs, with presentations from the PGR advisor from the Careers Centre. In January 2019 we
 introduced a series of ‘Lunch & Learn’ monthly events for PGR students and postdocs which
 provide generic training in an informal setting. Topics are varied, frequently in response to
 requests from, and led by, PGR students themselves, including ‘Academic Pathways –PhD and
 beyond’, ‘Managing your supervisor’, 'What to do when things go wrong', and ‘Publishing in
 Geography and SD’. Bespoke training models on, for example, laboratory practice, IT,
 geoinformatics, cartography, are provided by the School, through DTP-supported residential
 training courses, or, where necessary, external training. Research students are also required to
 develop teaching experience (and complete the necessary training courses), to give research
 seminars, and are encouraged and supported to publish at least one paper before thesis
 submission and to present research at international conferences.

 All students are provided with a Research Training and Conference Fund (£750 per annum as
 standard) and are also able to apply as necessary for additional funding from the School PGR
 professional development fund. We provide all PGR students with computers and related
 equipment, whether based in one of our three PGR rooms or working from home (as many are
 during the pandemic). We encourage and foster a sense of community amongst our research
 students through the annual conference and dinner, participation in School activities, and
 involvement in training and social events.

 The results of our supportive environment, effective training, high quality supervision and good
 management of PGR are reflected in our completion rates: of the 2011–2015 cohorts (who
 would be expected to have completed by 2020), 79.4% have successfully graduated with
 doctoral degrees. Our PGR graduates progress to a range of careers including in public and civil
 service (e.g. Public Health England, National Records of Scotland), to academic posts in the UK
 (including Edinburgh, UCL and Sussex universities) and overseas, and to a range of commercial
 companies.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity

 The School was awarded Athena SWAN Bronze status in October 2019, recognising our
 achievements during the REF period as well as our ambitious action plans for the further
 promotion of EDI. The University’s excellence in this area is recognised by an institutional
 Athena Swan Bronze Award and a European Commission HR Excellence Award. The University
 actively promotes our Stonewall membership and LGBT charter mark, as well as Women in
 Science networking events. The School aims to achieve a gender-balanced staffing profile at all
 levels of management and responsibility, as well as to increase the proportion of staff from
 underrepresented groups. We advertise posts widely in order to attract candidates from different
 backgrounds, include male and female contacts on all adverts and, in line with University policy,
 have banned single sex shortlists. We actively encourage female colleagues to apply for
 promotion (4 of 6 staff promoted during the REF period have been female), but there remains a
 gender imbalance at senior levels. We provide opportunities for staff development by
 participating in University-wide mentoring schemes (ILES, 3.2). We also have a School-internal
 mentoring scheme, encouraged and overseen by the HoS, and there is an informal WhatsApp
 group connecting female members of staff. Since 2017, 11 staff have requested a mentor (6
 female and 5 male).

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We have undertaken two staff surveys (2018 and 2020) as part of the Athena SWAN application
 process, and identified several areas for improvement. One is our workload allocation model
 (completed in April 2018, after extensive staff consultation). This model aims to limit teaching
 and service activity to maximum of 60% of staff time in order to facilitate research activity, and
 increase transparency in work allocation. The School’s main administrative posts (Head of
 School and 7 Directorships) are rotated every three years as part of our staff development
 strategy, to furnish possibilities for promotion, as well equality and diversity, and widen
 experience. We provide for reduced teaching loads for new starts and returners from
 maternity/shared parental/carer’s leave. The School holds all meetings and research seminars in
 core hours, and we offer family-friendly social activities –which include PGR students –to provide
 an intellectually stimulating as well as friendly work environment. We provide opportunities for
 flexible working and all research staff are encouraged to dedicate one day per week to research.

 We have initiated work on 'unravelling privilege', in response to the Black Lives Matter
 movement, and have established a group connected to EDIC to monitor this in research and
 teaching. We anticipate giving this increasing attention in coming months and years across all
 areas of research.

 During the pandemic, we have kept in continuous contact with staff working from home, and
 made numerous adjustments to workload to counter the impact of the pandemic on research
 and teaching, including provision of IT equipment to facilitate home-working. Three staff (all
 female) received funding of £25–45k from the SFC-funded initiative to restart research that had
 been particularly affected by the pandemic and consequent lockdown. So far, 22 out of 47 PhD
 students have been granted extensions to mitigate the effects of the pandemic on their work.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure, and facilities

 Income:
 SGSD secured £9.33M in research grant awards during this REF period. These amounts have
 been secured from a total of £44.55M in grant applications, with an upward growth trend in
 applications, and an application: award success ratio of 44% (roughly 10% higher than the
 University average). Most of these awards are for FEC-costed research projects and
 centre/institute affiliations; a few are for fellowships. Around two-thirds (£5.84M) of awards have
 been geared to core and collaborative projects, and around one third (£3.49M) explicitly to
 impact case studies (a greater proportion, £7.45M, to impact activity more generally). Of 43 live
 projects, 16 are in the £100K+ bracket, and 22 in the <£50K bracket, demonstrating our strategic
 aim of broadening our award base by type and size. Over the past decade, the School's grant
 application strategy and pattern of success has shifted away from an era dominated by
 substantial grant income based on a small number of research areas (especially population and
 housing, where application success rates were very high). Several of the staff involved in that
 activity have since left St Andrews or retired. Grant projects are now more evenly distributed
 across staff, with an increasing number of awards involving the pooling of staff and research
 group expertise.


 FTE Category A staff have secured 120 awards totalling £8.72M, and with average of £300K per
 member of staff, and an average of 0.59 projects per staff per year.

 Research awards by source are broken down and presented in Figure 2 and Table 1 (which
 includes the component with impact).




                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                      EUROPEAN UNION                EUROPEAN UNION - OTHER
                      OTHER OVERSEAS                OTHER SOURCES
                      RESEARCH COUNCILS             UK CHARITABLE BODIES
                      UK GOVN'T/HEALTH/LOCAL AUTH   UK INDUSTRY/COMMERCE/PUBLIC

  Figure 2 Research awards by source


                                      Total           Portion £              N with
   Source                             value (£) N     with Impact            impact*
   UK Research Councils               4.6M      38 3.78M                     8
   EU                                 2.2M      8     1.99M                  4
   UK Gov/Health/Local Authority      968k      47 851k                      23
   UK Charitable Bodies               865k      37 572k                      28
   Other Overseas/Other               480k      22 58k                       4
   Industry and Commerce              203k      5     201k                   5
   Total                              9.32M           7.46M
   *Projects often have more than one
   funder
 Table 1 Amounts for research awards and those with impact


 The income totals for the three research groups are:
    • ECRG: £3.75M
    • PHRG: £3.35M
    • GOSSIP: £1.36M

 There have been notable climbs in awards across the School from UKRI (nearly 30% rise since
 REF2014, especially MRC and NERC), and the EU (fourfold rise) and EU –other (100% rise).

 Research council income by research group:
    • ECRG: £2.14M
    • PHRG: £1.39M
    • GOSSIP: £803K

 Research council funder by % of total number of awards and projects:
    • NERC: 40% by awards, 23% by project
    • ESRC: 39% by awards, 53% by project.




                                                                                       Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The three top award amounts –of £1.95M (ERC), £1.92M (NERC) and £1.8M (ESRC) – account
 for 60% of total awards. However, the £173K awarded for 10 SFC-GCRF projects, and involving
 researchers in all three research groups, is no less significant, as it reflects the School’s valuing
 of the diversity of research activity.
 NERC and Leverhulme awards have played significant roles in advancing ECRG core areas of
 glaciology, tropical ecology, and GIS/remote sensing.
 PHRG researchers (REF1 and REF2) have held all three levels of European Research Council
 Award (Starting, Consolidator, and Advanced).
 The School’s emerging group, GOSSIP, has proved adept at both securing smaller awards from
 a wide range of funders, and using them as a platform for applying for larger grants, particularly
 in the cross-over Geography-SD nexus.
 The School’s participation in the Global Challenges Forum (ILES, 2.3), totalling 9 projects
 involving current staff, has been significant in fostering School-wide synergies, collaborations
 within and beyond the University, and an important small grant platform from which for large
 grant applications have been made and awards secured, particularly to UKRI and UK Gov (see
 Figure 3).


 Infrastructure and facilities:

 Academic and support staff offices, computing facilities and laboratories, and core teaching and
 research spaces connected to SGSD have been spread across adjacent buildings in the old part
 of the University. Having a clearly identifiable School hub was deemed a priority in 2017 and is
 now being realised: the School will be united in one recently refurbished building from 2021. This
 will be a major boon to our research and teaching environment. Most research students and
 postdoctoral researchers will also share the same buildings and facilities.

 SGSD is supported by six administrative staff and two technicians, including a dedicated Grade
 3 technician who oversees laboratory work. Laboratory facilities consist of a primary sampling
 and sedimentology room and two rooms containing the School's analytical equipment. The
 dominant research themes in the lab are: (1) understanding the burial and storage of carbon in
 marine sediments and terrestrial peats (especially tropical peatlands); (2) understanding the
 long-term evolution of environments and ecosystems; and (3), developing the use of tephra
 layers as records of past environmental conditions.

 SGSD has a full range of equipment for field survey (including time-lapse cameras, drones, and
 automatic weather stations); the collection of samples (from ice, peat, freshwater and marine
 sediment); laboratory analysis (particle size, Carbon, Nitrogen, organic and inorganic matter,
 water quality, light microscopy); and data analysis (GIS and Remote Sensing licences).

 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations, networks and partnerships

 Much of our research is designed and delivered through collaborations, networks, and
 partnerships. Collaborative thinking and practice come in three main modes: (1)
 community/partnership, (2) organisational/policy, and (3) institutional/university. Each mode is
 valued both for what it brings to the School’s research environment, and for what it offers
 research users and beneficiaries (ILES, 2.8). Each traverses our core research and impact
 agendas, as well as the strategic priority flagged in Section 1 as ‘collaborative research.’
 Collaboration is also integral to our ‘regionalised clusters’ of work (see Figure 3).

 While the different styles of research collaboration and data sharing identified below are by no
 means exclusive to their associated research group, the following characterisation, by research

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 group, helps to explain how both core and impact-oriented research within those groups is
 undertaken (see Section 1 –Research groups):

    •   ECRG is recognised for its scientific collaborations with various university, governmental,
        and non-governmental consortia, including: the International Thwaites Glacier
        Collaboration (5 UK and USA partners); the Centre for Scientific Computing, Finland; the
        Institute of Tibetan Plateau Research, China; the Instituto de Investigaciones de la
        Amazonia Peruana, Peru; the UN World Conservation Monitoring Centre; the Swiss
        National Science Foundation (7 European partners); the European Space Agency; and
        the British Antarctic Survey (Figure 3).

    •   PHRG is recognised for its centre- and project-oriented collaborations and consortia with
        various funders and institutions, including: CPC (3 UK universities); ADRC-Scotland, and
        CALLS (4 UK universities); CoDE (5 UK universities), and also MMRP (8 European
        universities) and IMPRS-PHDS –International Max Planck Research School for
        Population, Health and Data Science (8 European and North American universities)
        (Figure 3).

    •   GOSSIP is recognised for nurturing ethical partnerships and projects of knowledge co-
        production within the UK and internationally, and for modelling best practice and offering
        advice to the University in connection with its Global and Diverse St Andrews agendas.
        GOSSIP researchers are leaders and specialists in socially inclusionary and participatory
        research in diverse locations, with multiple partners, and through fieldwork, training, and
        co-publication. Notable clusters and programmes of collaborative research revolve
        around Central and South America (5 inter-university collaborations) and Sub-Saharan
        Africa (c. 30 collaborations). Details in Figure 3: SEEDZ; El Niño in Northern Peru;
        Mapping Community Development; Environmental Justice.

 In total, SGSD researchers are involved in over 200 collaborations with co-researchers, co-
 authors, and academic and non-academics institutions and partners. Almost all grant awards
 involve collaboration and/or networks of engagement, and our ethical commitment to co-
 partnered knowledge production and exchange is captured in the author lists of diverse outputs,
 ranging from peer-reviewed articles to advisory and community reports.

 A growing number of grant applications involve more than one member of SGSD staff and, in
 both their UK-based and international work, all research groups collaborate with researchers
 from across the University (in the Schools of Art History, Biology, Earth and Environmental
 Sciences, Modern Languages, Management, Medicine, International Relations, and
 Philosophical, Anthropological and Film Studies). SGSD also has close connections with
 University-wide organisations (especially the Scottish Oceans Institute and ESB).

 Figure 3 gives a snapshot of the international scope and diversity of our collaborations, funders,
 networks and partners, and a sense of how they relate to our main ‘regionalised clusters’ of
 research beyond the UK. It also illustrates how our research and impact strategies are
 embedded in, and realised through, initiatives that reach across Geography’s physical and social
 science and humanities spectrum, link Geography and SD, and foster collaborations of broader
 interdisciplinary scope. The legend gives the prime methodological orientation or nexus of the
 activity selected, although in almost all cases there is some cross-over between areas within
 SGSD and some element of wider interdisciplinary. Some of the examples are project-based,
 institute-centred or funder-specific, whereas others refer to longer programmes of research in
 specific areas. In all cases, the regionalised (and in most cases field-based) focus of the
 research and impact is key to nurturing partnerships with overseas co-workers, and to
 developing data, understandings and methods that make a real difference on the ground.




                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 3: SGSD collaborations and their relationship with research and impact strategy.

 Contribution to the research base

 The School’s contributions to the research base have not only encompassed a wide range of
 disciplines but have also been interdisciplinary, international, and advisory. Geography is our
 main disciplinary anchor and we make significant contributions to its national and international
 functioning through: (1) learned society committee leadership and membership positions; for
 example, Clayton –RSGS, Laurie –RGS (Section 1: Esteem); Chairs, RGS-IBG Research
 Groups: Finney –Population Geography, Hope –Development Geography, Kesby –Participatory
 Geographies; (2) journal editorships and associate editorships: Demšar –International Journal of
 Geographical Information Science; Sharp, Vradis –Political Geography; Kulu –Population
 Studies; Laurie –Progress in Human Geography; Clayton and Warren –Scottish Geographical
 Journal; and (3) major conference organisation: Bennett –Chair of the Scientific Programme
 Committee of INQUA 2019. Furthermore, SGSD staff have convened 50+ conferences,
 workshops, or conference sessions within the annual conferences of the AAG, AGU, EGU, IGC,
 RGS-IBG, and other Geography-affiliated professional organisations. They have presented
 200+ conference papers, of which over 50 were invited, keynote, or plenary presentations.

 Staff hold similar roles in broader arenas, including Kulu, White (Section 1: Esteem); Demšar –
 Co-chair, International Cartographic Association Commission on Visual Analytics; Okafor-
 Yarwood –One Earth Future Foundation Stable Seas Report; Austin –NERC Research Council
 Peer Review College; and Sharp –Faculty Expert, Global Health Board, MRC, and Member,
 Sustainable Futures in Africa Network.

 Contributions to economy and society

 Public engagement

 Public engagement is a critical part of our academic remit, as determines how our work is seen,
 disseminated and used in the wider world. For example, research on the issue of migration and

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 constitutional change has contributed significantly to public and policy debates in both the 2014
 Scottish Independence and 2016 EU referenda. Public engagement included dissemination of
 research findings through the popular media (e.g. BBC Sunday Politics, BBC at Nine, Guardian
 Live Chat), in public debate (including Edinburgh Festival of Politics, David Hume Institute,
 Spring seminar: The Politicians and Professionals series), and public-facing outputs (e.g. ESRC
 Society Today magazine, The Conversation). Community commitment is exemplified by ‘Rowing
 the Waves’, a project that draws attention the historical, cultural, and economic value of coastal
 rowing to Scotland and the UK, and seeks to promote the sport, and harness its relevance to
 marine recreation policies and place marketing. The project has produced an adaptive rowing
 guide (co-produced with St Andrews Coastal Rowing Club), a strategy for the curation of British
 rowing histories, and two short films, as a means of drawing policymakers and stakeholders to a
 user forum.

 Private sector

 Impact in the private sector stems primarily from research connections to the energy sector. Key
 user groups and beneficiaries in this regard include the National Grid, Electricity North West and
 EDF (collaboration over long-term flood maps), Renewable World (NGO), and NHS and Fife
 Council (as part of our formal membership of the Fife Environmental Partnership). Recent SFC-
 GCRF funded work in Malawi engages directly with the Rocky Mountain Institute in co-creating
 an energy use map.

 Government and civil service

 Civil servants and policy officials have used our research into the demography of Scotland and
 the UK, the global effects of climate change and marine planning, policy development, and
 resource allocation. For example, our research has informed Scottish immigration policies in the
 context of the UK leaving the EU (Expert Advisory Group on Migration and Population). Glacial
 research based in SGSD has been used by the Scottish Government in their 2019 National
 Arctic Strategy, and our research has directly influenced IPCC assessments and Westminster
 All-Party Committee discussions of ice sheets and sea level rise modelling.

 Overall, it is the quality and effectiveness of our collaborations and networks, and how they build
 bridges with academic and non-academic research partners, rather than their size or scope, that
 matters most to us. Collaboration is central to we do, and it often outlives the time-limited nature
 of the funding that supports it.




                                                                                              Page 17
