Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Canterbury Christ Church University

 Unit of Assessment: 23 Education

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Our submission to the UoA 23: Education, comprises multidisciplinary research driven by a focus
 on work that is rooted in a commitment to the notion of education as a vehicle for social change.
 Our submission collectively represents research in the areas of the sociology of education,
 curriculum change, marginalised voices and education policy. At the census point, the Unit
 comprised 22 Education researchers (19 FTE). 12.5 FTE are based in the Faculty of Education,
 2.5 FTE are contracted to the School of Language and Linguistics, 1FTE colleague (SC) joins the
 Unit from the School of Psychology, Politics and Sociology and 1FTE (JA) has a post in the
 Department of Enterprise, Employability and Research Development. Seven are Senior
 Lecturers, two Principal Lecturers, three are Readers (PD, KH, RR), and six are Professors (BB,
 RB, TC, AH, LR, LW). One Senior Research Fellow (AC) is attached to the National Institute for
 Christian Education Research (NICER).

 The Faculty in which the Unit sits has been restructured since REF 2014. Before 2020 the Unit
 was situated in the Faculty of Education but from August 2020 the Unit was resituated within the
 Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Education. Going forward, the new Faculty structure offers
 opportunities for interdisciplinary research activity and the development of initiatives to invigorate
 research. During the assessment period, the context and internal structure of the Unit materially
 changed. As a consequence of changes in personnel combined with reflections following the
 results of REF2014, the Unit took the opportunity to realign its research strategy and redefined its
 ambition. During the first years of the assessment period, the strategy focused on developing
 research expertise within a discrete Research Directorate and capacity-building was linked to
 established research themes. To reinforce this approach, the Unit made further investment in a
 Professoriate to lead the next stage of research development. The future strategy outlined in
 REF2014 reflected a vision for education research of strong leadership in discrete research
 ‘themes’ and an ‘apprenticeship’ model for capacity-building. During the middle years of the
 assessment period, eight Professors retired or left their posts and three moved to part-time
 contracts. The impact of these departures was significant and necessitated a radical reimagining
 of the strategy. The revised strategy introduced in 2018/2019 positioned research expertise and
 development as an integral part of the work of the Unit and specifically addressed the practitioner
 nature of our work and the professional backgrounds of colleagues. Supported by an
 organisational restructure which reconsidered the function of research and sought to bring
 research overtly into the life and core activities of the academic Schools, the last two years has
 realised a systematic and strategically important realignment of the Unit’s aims and goals. It has
 focused research more evidently into curricula and redirected resource to enable the integration
 of the principles of the Vitae Researcher Development Framework (VRDF). Between 2014/2018
 and from 2018 to 2020 the strategy was based on the following aims:

        SA1. Nurturing inexperienced researchers and capacity-building with the aim of creating a
        sustainable research culture. This aim includes working to increase the number of
        colleagues with doctorates and a parallel increase in doctoral students in our priority areas
        (see also SA2).
        SA2. Conducting research that influences curricula and is linked to impact, particularly in
        the priority areas of religion and education, language and education, inclusion and work

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        with babies and young children. This aim includes a focus on research that enables us to
        work alongside stakeholders as collaborators and partners.
        SA3. Increasing external grant and enterprise income in the priority areas of religion and
        education, inclusion, and work with marginalised groups.

 The research strategy of the Unit is now framed by the core features outlined in the Institutional
 environment statement (REF5a, 2.1). The wider benefit of embedding research within the
 academic schools is evident in the development of new research networks, a substantial increase
 in supervisory capacity, and a resultant growth in income and in the postgraduate research
 community.

 The core goals of the REF2014 strategy have not changed but their enactment is more
 transparent, egalitarian and inclusive. To this end, the revised strategy has been enacted through
 (1) the physical relocation of Professors and Readers from the Erasmus Building (which housed
 the “Research Directorate”) – aim SA1, SA3, (2) the explicit integration of the principles
 underpinning the Vitae Researcher Development Framework into the Unit’s development and
 staffing strategy – aim SA1, (3) the creation of a ‘Tiered’ approach to support and mentoring that
 is focused on building research capacity from the ground up – SA1, SA2, SA3, (4) rebuilding
 centres of research excellence around the issues and values of our partners and stakeholders –
 aim SA2, SA3.

 The new strategy has seen growth in collaborative and multidisciplinary research, greater
 opportunities for cross-sector collaboration, and a sustained increase in the number of colleagues
 in the Faculty of Education able to supervise doctoral candidates. Post-2021, we will pursue these
 objectives with increasing vigour. We will draw on the very best pedagogic and practice-based
 education research to reconnect with regional regeneration and social isolation agendas, while
 always aspiring to make our research accessible and meaningful to our constituent communities
 of schools and educational settings.

 Between 2014 and 2020, the Unit achieved its aims in the following ways:

 SA1 Nurturing researchers from professional backgrounds and creating the basis for a
 sustainable research culture.

 In common with many universities, the Faculty of Education is staffed largely by professionals who
 had successful careers as practitioners. The strategy to foster and sustain a thriving research
 culture acknowledged that the majority of colleagues entered higher education without doctorates.
 Our aim has been to increase the proportion of academic staff who are research-active and
 engaged in high-quality research, who can win external funding and supervise doctoral students
 to completion. In line with the university commitment to extend the principles of the Concordat to
 all staff on Teaching and Research contracts (REF5a, 3.2), our strategy involved creating a
 framework to address the needs of all colleagues from professional backgrounds. According to
 individual needs, colleagues can access mentoring, ringfenced time for research, funding for
 attending conferences and a programme of workshops for academic writing. Notwithstanding the
 challenge of progressing colleagues without doctorates to a position of independent researcher
 and doctoral supervisor, the number of colleagues with doctorates has risen steadily (see Section
 2: Staff Development) and all academic staff without doctorates are encouraged to enrol on the
 EdD or on a PhD programme. Between 2014 and 2020, eighteen colleagues registered for a

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 doctorate and eight have completed. Since REF2014, supervisory capacity across the Unit has
 tripled and we anticipate that an additional fourteen colleagues will join the Unit as independent
 researchers in the next academic year, an increase of 73%.

 While researcher development remains an important strand of our capacity-building work, the
 embedding of experienced researchers into the academic Schools has heightened the expectation
 that research both drives curricula and is conducted in an openly collaborative way. Colleagues
 with backgrounds as educational practitioners have a sharp understanding of our partner
 institutions and much of our research speaks directly with these audiences. Research on teacher
 practice and identity, and on students’ voice and agency employs inclusive approaches by
 researching, where ethically justifiable, with participants. Frequently working in sensitive areas to
 better understand social complexity and social exclusion, the Unit’s strategy drives forward work
 that upholds values of transparency and open communication, as well as care and respect for
 those involved in research. In support of this, all colleagues are required to upload their published
 outputs to ResearchSpace, the university’s institutional repository. To enable access to our
 research findings by our constituent communities and stakeholders, we encourage the use of
 social media and other open outlets.

 SA2 Conducting research that influences curricula and is linked to impact.

 A bedrock of the Unit’s work is the critique and development of curricula in a variety of
 environments from baby rooms to multiagency sites. This work aims to influence the development
 of curriculum (BB, RB and TC), it includes research that expands the definition of curricula to
 include the political and cultural environment in which it sits (CB, LR, PD and AH), and the identity
 of professionals who enact it (SP, ID, AC, MK). This work underpins the work of the Unit’s centres
 and research networks and is integral to both Impact Case Studies in REF3.

 The Unit is home to three research centres each engaged in a systematic programme of research,
 capacity-building, and impact generation around their substantive interests and methodological
 concerns. The Unit is also home to networks that have built successful research profiles or aim
 to contribute to new research trajectories. While the research centres have made, in different
 ways, a strong contribution to developing expertise, sponsoring the research networks has
 strengthened the key areas of research impact: social impact, policy influence, impact on health
 and wellbeing and improving the life chances of children and families.

 The largest research network is CLIER (Culture, Language, and International Education
 Research), currently comprising three researchers with significant responsibility for independent
 research and a PhD community of over thirty students. CLIER initially brought together several
 researchers working on the cultural politics of English language education and who shared
 interests in exploring teaching, learning, teacher education or supervision as complex
 social experiences. The research network has been instrumental in supporting the development
 of emerging researchers at postgraduate and early-career level. During the REF assessment
 period, colleagues within the network have supervised 50 FTE PhD students, including 42 funded
 international students. Outputs from network members include peer-reviewed publications on
 paradigm-shifting methodologies on discourse analysis (AH) and on international students in
 Higher Education (AH, SH). The network has also generated research on primary school
 language education (PD, AH) and the learning experience of child migrants (AH). Holliday has
 been invited to contribute to the Horizon 2020 European ‘Child-up’ project, Hoult has acted as

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 consultant for the Australian BEST (Basic Education Sector Transformation) project in the
 Philippines, and Driscoll is a member of the AILA (International Association of Applied Linguistics)
 research network in Early Language Learning.

 Two other research networks, the interprofessional ‘Action for Collaborative Transformation (ACT)
 Project’ (led by developing researcher SS) and ‘Education for Sustainable Futures’ (developing
 researcher NK) hold regular seminars and public engagement events. ACT has held a regular
 annual conference which attracts GPs and specialists from health and education and has a Visiting
 Senior Research Fellow attached.

 The National Institute for Christian Education Research (NICER) was founded in 2006 as a
 Cathedral Group initiative to establish a centre of research excellence in the area of Christianity
 and education. Over 15 years, NICER has gained critical mass and international recognition
 through securing the support of several external funders, and has fulfilled the strategic aims of
 income generation, capacity-building and public engagement. Led by RB and previously by
 Cooling, NICER’s activities are supported by a professorial research associate (LR), one senior
 research fellow (AC), one senior consulting research lead (Hulbert), three senior research
 associates (JR, CT and MW). NICER has played an instrumental role in increasing external grant
 capture, increasing the volume of outputs in internationally peer-reviewed journals, involving more
 partner schools in research projects and increasing the PGR community. The centre has led three
 specialised cohorts of the EdD programme with a focus on Christianity and Education (27
 students). In partnership with Liverpool Hope University, it has organised six annual international
 PGR conferences on Christianity and Education and plays a leading role in extending the Unit’s
 international reach.

 Led by BB, the Centre for Learning about Science and Religion (LASAR), established in 2017,
 has built a strong national and international reputation for projects investigating the relationships
 between science, religion and the humanities. LASAR’s work is supported by four research
 associates and a further five senior lecturers contribute to embedding research carried out by
 LASAR in taught programmes across the Unit. Its research projects fall into two main areas:
 learning about science and religion, and ‘epistemic insight’ (how students, student teachers and
 in-service teachers understand the Big Questions raised by science, technology and engineering
 within a multidisciplinary arena). Both areas have been supported by grants from major funders
 and LASAR has achieved significant success in applications for bids including responsive-mode
 research grants. LASAR has a sustainable programme of research projects which engage school
 students from disadvantaged backgrounds and its team works across quantitative research
 projects, educational interventions, school improvement and professional development. It has
 proved to be a vital and enduring capacity-building platform, supporting and developing academic
 colleagues with limited experience of publication through processes of co-writing, participation in
 bid writing and public engagement events, so that all members of the team who are not
 experienced researchers are jointly named on recent articles or bids. The wider Faculty has
 benefited from LASAR’s pioneering approach to embedding research into taught programmes and
 involving students in enquiry methods.

 The Research Centre for Children, Families and Communities (RCfCFC) (active until 2018) played
 an important role in maintaining the Unit’s relationship with local communities and influencing
 public policy on the rights of young people, children and babies. Under the leadership of KG, SP,
 and RR, the Centre built an international reputation for innovative research in Early Years provision

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and on the experiences of socially marginalised young adults. During the assessment period,
 colleagues working within the Centre produced 40 outputs, hosted 10 annual Baby Room
 conferences and organised regular research seminars. It has secured externally funded income
 to the value of £499,930, including grants from the Froebel Trust, as well as supporting the work
 of 8 PhD students attached to the Centre. The outward facing nature of the Centre’s work is
 reflected in the ICS, Improving policy and practice within early childhood, education and care (birth
 to two), through raising the status of the early years profession, improving specialist training and
 increasing investment. The Unit’s revised research strategy prompted a review of research roles
 wholly dependent on non-renewable external income and led to the transition of the Centre to a
 new research network, Children, Families and Communities, facilitated by RR. It is comprised of
 new research clusters that affirm the agency of underrepresented groups, for example, ‘We Need
 to Talk about Class’ (PS), ‘Early Childhood Community of Practice’ (HW) and ‘Marginalised Voices
 in Early Childhood’ (KS).

 SA3. Increasing external grant and enterprise income.

 The Unit’s twin ambitions of supporting research that has tangible social and economic impact
 and of creating frameworks where less experienced researchers can be nurtured rested on
 ambitious goals for external grant and enterprise income. This strategy was relevant for a
 teaching-intensive university where less resources are available for study leaves and sabbaticals
 and where research development is tied into appraisal conversations and staff development
 procedures. The Unit focused on supporting grant capture in the areas where our research has
 impact on curriculum development particularly in the intersection of faith and curriculum
 development (RB, AC, TC, BB, LR) and in the area of young children and marginalised voices
 (SP, RR, KG and DV). The focus on increasing income generation in these areas was crucial in
 developing both Impact Case Studies. Between 2014 and 2020 the Unit has achieved
 considerable success through targeting funders whose vision and mission align with ours and
 where success would enhance the impact of our research and support the sustainability of impact
 into the future. Income from external grants and agencies has 1) facilitated a range of public
 engagement events (Section 4), 2) involved Unit members in collaborative projects with
 stakeholder groups in the co-creation of knowledge and in the evaluation of educational
 interventions, 3) supported researcher development by freeing colleagues from teaching
 responsibilities, and 4) enabled greater reach. The success of the Unit’s bid strategy has
 additionally supported the career development of researchers who were brought into research
 projects through funded backfill. A total of £2,068,800 has been secured during the assessment
 period from a range of prestigious funders. Looking to the future (therefore not captured in REF4),
 and in direct alignment with our impact strategy, is the award to LASAR of £99,732 from the ESRC
 (COVID-19 Research and Innovation) and £47,761 for NICER from the Sir Halley Stewart Trust
 for a project that has a special interest in pupils disproportionately disadvantaged by COVID-19
 disruption.

 Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact

 The new Faculty in which the Unit sits hosts five other Units of Assessment and this provides rich
 opportunities for meaningful cross-disciplinary work and for less experienced colleagues from
 Education to work alongside more experienced researchers. The Unit will continue to focus on
 the potential of education as an inherently interdisciplinary subject. Our previous success in
 establishing a thriving PGR culture – building reputation in the area of religion and education and

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in developing the foundations for sustainable research – means that we are in a strong position to
 consolidate our research base and to extend our research expertise in emerging areas. Our future
 strategy will consolidate our recent gains and include additional goals centred on our commitment
 to challenging inequality, celebrating connectivity, and exposing the causes of marginalisation and
 isolation. We aim to:

    1. Maintain and evolve the ‘Tier’ framework (see Section 2), informed by the principles of the
       Research Development Concordat and the VRDF, geared towards colleagues from
       professional backgrounds to support career progression in relation to research. As a result
       of participating in this process, colleagues will take part in a bespoke mentoring program,
       receive ring-fenced time for research and engage with a programme of development.
    2. Capitalise on the work and networks established by LASAR and NICER to extend our
       international research profile in the intersection of religion and education, and in the
       connections between scientific and religious knowledge. The current research centres will
       maintain a key role in defining the research environment and sustaining the Unit through
       income generation and capacity building.
    3. Create relationships and establish links with stakeholders and regional players so that
       research is an integral part of our practitioner/partnership activity. We will do this in two
       ways. First, through privileging projects that are Close-to-Practice research so that
       research relationships are embedded with local, regional and international policy
       communities. Secondly, through developing a two-way relationship with practice through
       growing EdD/PhD registrations among practitioners and co-creating impactful research.
       This practitioner network will facilitate an organic relationship with partners and enable us
       to draw on the experience of practitioners to inform new ways of working.
    4. We will capitalise on the interdisciplinarity of the research centres and networks and build
       new networks in arts-based, and heritage education, while strengthening and supporting
       interests in sustainability marginalised voices and children’s experiences of the natural
       environment.

 2. People

 Staffing

 As an inherently multidisciplinary research area, the Unit benefits from drawing in colleagues from
 other areas of the Faculty and beyond, and this broad-church approach has enriched the ‘family’
 of Education researchers and stimulated the research environment. The staffing profile of the
 Faculty of Education has been determined by the dominance of the Initial Teacher Education
 portfolio and thus on recruiting outstanding teacher educators with recent and relevant experience
 in schools. This has meant that capacity-building is central to the Unit’s development plans (SA1).
 The 2018 review of the research strategy involved appointing a Faculty Director of Research who
 was tasked with implementing the Researcher Development Concordat and embedding the four
 domains of the Vitae Researcher Development Framework (VRDF) within our research support
 initiatives. To this end, the Unit introduced a ‘four-tier’ system for research development, each
 linked to principles that underpin the VRDFs domains alongside specific expectations, recognition
 and rewards. Colleagues who wish to privilege applied scholarship and enterprise are ‘Tier 1’ and
 they have access to funding and mentors who support them in developing expertise in relation to
 enterprise and professional activities. ‘Tier 2’, colleagues are expected to engage with at least
 one of the VRDF domains and are paired with a mentor who they meet every six weeks to discuss


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 their progress and refresh development targets. They are supported to attend national
 conferences, apply for periods of study leave and encouraged to register for a doctorate.
 Colleagues with doctorates and who are beginning to publish in peer-refereed journals are placed
 on ‘Tier 3’. They receive regular mentoring and are eligible to apply for financial support for
 international conferences and longer periods of study leave. Working alongside a mentor,
 colleagues develop a research plan which identifies how they intend to extend their engagement
 with all VRDF domains. ‘Tier 4’ matches the REF criteria for having significant responsibility for
 independent research and aligns with the research allocations across faculties and across the
 Unit. The Tier system has introduced transparency, accountability, and created a process where
 colleagues with no previous experience of research can visualise progression and make the
 stepwise transition to fully research-active status. The Tier system and the research career
 pathway ‘trajectory’ is open to all colleagues - the Unit does not employ any fixed-term staff and
 the development of part-time staff is the same as for full-time staff.

 The Research and Innovation Funding Unit (RIFU) provides strategic and targeted support to
 academic staff in seeking and securing funding for their research activities. In addition, the Faculty
 of Education offers the Professional and Academic Development programme to all academic staff
 at all stages of researcher development. With a primary focus on academic and researcher
 citizenship, training workshops provide support for technical aspects of research, such as getting
 an ORCID identifier, advice on promotions, writing abstracts, presenting posters and strategies to
 develop multidisciplinary research.

 UoA-focused Staff Development

 The Unit has further embedded the underlying principles of the VRDF through creating an
 Academic and Professional Development programme. This programme, comprised of workshops
 and forums, provides opportunities for all colleagues to develop their skills and aptitude through
 their engagement with aspects of the VRDF domains. All colleagues work with their line managers
 and the Faculty Director of Research to identify the sessions/workshops that will most effectively
 align with their career trajectory.

 In line with university policy (see REF5a), the Unit provides support for career development across
 the entire range of academic grades. Within the REF period, the Unit has supported 20 Early
 Career Researchers in attending the SPARC programme (Supporting Progression in Advance
 Research Careers) and 6 colleagues to attend Aurora leadership training, Advance HE’s
 leadership development initiative for women and those who identify as women.

 Our strategy in building an inclusive approach to conducting research has prioritised the creation
 of a comprehensive mentoring system targeted at inexperienced researchers. All colleagues in
 the Unit who aim to become research-active or who are already active independent researchers
 are required to mentor or be mentored. Mentors are expected to meet once a month and to review
 ongoing work around publication, writing or making bids to funders. A parallel strand has
 concentrated on growing supervisory capacity. The Unit has devised a bespoke programme of
 developmental sessions to support new supervisors that compliments the programme of events
 run by the Graduate College focusing on the specific needs of supervising EdD students. These
 run every month and include an annual supervisors’ conference. Attendance at a minimum of two
 developmental sessions and the conference is mandatory for all inexperienced supervisors.



                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The university has clear procedures and criteria for promotion to Reader and conferment of the
 title of Professor. During the census period, two staff members have been promoted to Professor
 (RB in 2019 and LR in 2020) and two members have been made Reader (KH, RR). The
 opportunities for staff to gain promotion are supported by central staff development guidelines.
 Colleagues have access to regular workshops to promote research as a viable career path, which
 includes long-term support for Readership applications.

 Equality and Diversity

 Canterbury Christ Church University is fully committed to equal opportunities in both its recruitment
 processes and in the training and development of researchers. Staff with recognised/declared
 disabilities are provided with support to enable them to progress their research careers and are
 supported in accessing funds from the Government’s Access to Work scheme. CCCU has been
 an Athena SWAN Charter Member since 2015 and attained an institutional bronze award in
 November 2016.

 The Unit’s commitment to diversity and inclusion is particularly important in a Faculty where the
 majority of colleagues are women and join us without a research degree qualification. The Faculty
 pays particular attention to enabling staff from practitioner backgrounds to develop research skills
 to become independent researchers. As part of the Faculty induction process, new colleagues
 are inducted into the tier system and are assigned a mentor who supports their development with
 a specific focus on research.

 Women constitute 58% of this submission. This figure indicates a slight levelling of the gender
 balance of REF entrants compared to REF2014 (69% female). In noting this shift, the Unit is
 sensitive to the fact that all Readers are women while four of six Professors are male. To address
 this imbalance, we are providing extended mentorship for those colleagues who wish to be
 supported and we have initiated a project to scrutinise the mechanisms by which colleagues
 access support for researcher development in relation to gender. Mentoring for ‘Tier 4’ colleagues
 includes advice and support for aspiring Readers; for Readers, mentoring is tailored around
 research plans, personal development plans, external profile and impact. Where structured
 mentoring for all Unit colleagues builds on annual appraisal objective setting and is provided by
 senior researchers within the Unit, Readers and Tier 4 colleagues can draw on additional
 mentoring from Professors external to the Faculty and from the Visiting Professor.

 Research students

 The Faculty offers a PhD programme alongside the long-standing Education Doctorate (EdD). For
 a Unit of this size, we have consistently attracted strong cohorts of international students onto the
 PhD, while most UK-based Education research students are largely in-service professionals,
 studying part-time. In the preceding REF period (2008 – 2013) 21 students completed doctorates;
 in the period between 2014 and 2020, 103 students gained a doctorate, representing a more than
 300% increase on the preceding assessment period.

 In line with the university’s objective to increase the number of doctoral completions, we have
 focused considerable energy on creating structures to sustain PhD students through their course
 of study. As outlined in Section 1, several colleagues each year are enrolled on doctoral
 programmes and our awareness of the pressures on in-service professionals informs our

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 approach to student support. Our strategy to increase both registrations and completions has
 been to use a targeted approach to the support of all students and the creation of spaces (both
 physical and virtual) where students, colleagues and supervisors share ideas, and which
 strengthen the supervisor/student relationship. The EdD was recently revalidated to increase the
 number of formal opportunities for students and supervisors to monitor and evaluate progress and
 suggest interventions where necessary. The revalidation also changed the balance between level
 7 and level 8 modules so that students were better prepared for the thesis stage.

 The university’s Graduate School issues an open call for applications for three years’ full funding
 (fees and maintenance). The Unit is awarded two of these funded scholarships every year, at
 least one of these is an open call and the other offered to an applicant wishing to study in an
 identified priority for the Unit. Between 2014 and 2020, 12 Education doctoral students received
 full university scholarships.

 Alongside the open call, our plans to broaden the research student demographic and increase the
 number of full-time students has been successful on two fronts. First, we have pursued a strategy
 of recruiting students in our priority areas (SA2) for PhDs, which include 40 students in the area
 of curriculum and teacher development, 17 in inclusion, 7 in early years and 4 in Christianity and
 Education. Secondly, we developed themed cohorts for the EdD focused on the Unit’s key areas
 for research, which have included leadership and education, special educational needs and
 inclusion, and Christianity. Tutors worked with cohorts to generate a community practice where
 students formed networks to support their learning and to share their work.

 Thirdly, the Unit was successful in its bid to support the ‘Algerian Ministry of Higher Education and
 Scientific Research Doctoral Scheme’ (2014) which saw cohorts of 100 joining a four-month pre-
 doctoral programme. More than 50 students elected to progress to PhDs in English literature,
 linguistics and language teaching. The Ministry’s aim of building capacity in English in Algerian
 universities, and to diversify its international partnerships into the Anglophone world, aligns with
 the Faculty’s successful capacity building and professional development work in Malaysia and in
 Palestine (funded through the World Bank), the excellence of the latter recognised in the Times
 Higher Education award for International Impact (2018).

 A major expression of our commitment to Equality and Diversity is our offer of doctoral pathways
 to students who may not have previously considered the opportunity at this level attractive. The
 Unit will continue to promote ‘themed’ EdD opportunities, focused on the areas of values education
 and marginalised voices. Through organising doctoral cohorts in this way, we have been able to
 attract students from under-represented groups, including, in the three years in which we targeted
 those with interests in Christianity and Faith, five students from Pentecostal and black church
 communities.

 Students engage with the wider Unit through their involvement in activities designed to create a
 culture where PGR students and colleagues share their work, including a well-attended
 programme of Faculty-based seminars, postgraduate conferences and scholarship days. Many
 of these sessions are developmental and students are expected to present the findings of their
 research in both formal and informal peer-led sessions, facilitated by Professors and Readers.
 International students are offered cultural immersion classes and additional writing workshops.
 International students join with all others in the induction to the doctoral process. In addition, full-
 time students are supported financially to participate in conferences, including at overseas events.

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our expectation that all students engage in these development activities is supported through
 objective-setting during mid-year and annual reviews. During the Covid-19 pandemic, the year-
 round programme of workshops and events have moved online, with additional online research
 skills training provided to offer greater flexibility for students managing challenging work and
 home-schooling demands.

 The university established a Graduate College in 2019, superseding the previous Graduate
 School. The Graduate College co-ordinates the central training of PGR students and the
 appointment and training of all PGR supervisors.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The sharp focus on income generation supports the Unit’s wider strategy for building and
 strengthening the research environment and culture and maximising the impact of the Unit’s
 research (SA3). As a teaching-intensive, research-active university, the benefits of securing
 external funding for research projects is vital in underpinning our capacity-building plans and for
 co-creating rich and impactful research with stakeholders and partners. External income has
 supported both research and knowledge exchange and the latter income stream sustains our
 policy of embedding research into projects which are primarily aimed towards educational
 improvement. During the census period, £3,372,771 was generated from a variety of national and
 international funders, of which £2,068,800 is research income.

 The Unit aimed to build capacity and expertise in bidding for external income with new researchers
 by creating developmental opportunities for colleagues to establish a bidding profile with smaller
 projects (SA1). Colleagues were provided with mentors who supported them in every stage of the
 process, from identifying areas for bidding, exploring potential funders and crafting the bid (see
 section 2). The Unit has seen fruition from this strategy leading to smaller awards and knowledge
 exchange partnerships, for example Kent Highways Evaluation WS, (£17,673) in 2016, Stephens,
 Quality Audit tool for School Leaders, (£24, 734) and NK, Outdoor Provision for Babies 2018 (£20,
 651).

 The three research centres have pursued in different ways the strategy of building upon close
 relationships with key funders whose interests align with the Centres’ established areas of
 expertise. The Research Centre for Children, Families and Communities (RCfCFC) focused on
 applications to funders that encouraged research on babies and young children alongside
 research focusing on vulnerable young people. Since REF 2014, this generated over £499,930.
 Our long-standing reputation for research in faith-based education has seen growth and
 development through successful grant capture initially by NICER which was then added to by the
 achievements of LASAR in the latter part of the REF period. Both LASAR and NICER developed
 their capacity to meet the requirements of funders through expanding their research expertise and
 infrastructures to support bid activity within their centres. Both research centres have received
 grants from the prestigious Templeton World Charity Foundation and since the end of the REF
 assessment period, a further £99,732 has been awarded by the ESRC to a consortium led by
 CCCU in relation to the Covid-19 Rapid Response call.

 NICER’s strategic appointment of two research associates as well as a senior consulting research
 lead with expertise in quantitative research methods (SH) expanded its ability to respond to bids
 that demanded different types of data. These include: Faith in the Nexus (£403,000) and Ten


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Leading Schools: the spiritual influence of Christian-ethos Secondary Education (£270,000) both
 from the Douglas Trust and the What if Learning Character Intervention (42,930) from the
 Department for Education. The investment in involving colleagues from the wider Unit with
 expertise in science (CT and JR) enabled NICER to secure funding for various projects on the
 science/religion classroom encounter including, The Beginning Teacher in the Science/Religion
 Encounter and Being Human (£635,000) from Templeton World Charity Foundation.

 Similarly, LASAR has employed researchers from different disciplinary backgrounds who
 strengthen the team’s ability to address and roll out the ‘Epistemic Insight’ project (see Section 1)
 across a broad range of curriculum areas. Including colleagues with expertise in engineering,
 science, and religious education has contributed to their capacity to achieve grants from All Saints
 Education Trust (Big Questions in RE Classrooms: £27,830) and Thinking Like a Physicist
 (£13,497) from the Science and Technology Facilities Council. LASAR has uniquely influenced
 the next stage of the Templeton World Charity Foundation’s major worldwide research scheme.
 The £5.5 million fund made available by the Templeman Foundation for the BQiC (Big Questions
 in Classrooms) initiative is modelled on the previously funded Epistemic Insight project
 (£1,200,000). Every LASAR grant has involved collaboration and interdisciplinary approaches
 and has played a vital role in capacity-building. The work carried out by ECR (PS) exemplifies
 this approach. She gained her doctorate in 2018 and worked within LASAR to develop research
 projects with teacher educators. She has submitted a single authored article to a refereed journal
 and has just submitted her first bid for external funding.

 Infrastructure and Facilities

 The decision to develop a strategy based around an integrated approach to research development
 was supported by significant changes in infrastructure. Researchers in the Unit now occupy office
 space across the university’s North Holmes Road campus. With the dis-establishment of the
 Educational Research Directorate, senior researchers have been relocated to offices among the
 wider Education community. The redistribution of staff has had a tangible impact on the Unit’s
 ambitions for research-engaged curricula as evidenced by the work of LASAR in embedding
 opportunities for student engagement with funded projects as part of undergraduate and PGCE
 programmes. It has also enhanced the development of new research networks reflecting the
 Unit’s commitment to impact in the area of social isolation and deprivation. This is most notable
 in sustainable education, for example, Let’s Talk about Class, Project 93, supported by the Unit
 and the University Sustainability Unit, which brings researchers, teachers and undergraduate
 students together as a sustainability think tank.

 Sitting within the Faculty of Education and as the only Unit of Assessment, research leadership is
 directed by the Faculty Director of Research who works closely with the Dean of Faculty in
 managing resource and developing strategy. The Faculty Research Committee (FRC) has
 increasingly become the engine for strategic planning and monitoring activity and impact against
 targets. The FRC includes representation from the research centres and a cross-section of
 researchers including those who are on the journey towards having significant responsibility for
 independent research. The Committee is serviced by the Unit research administrators (1 FTE:
 0.5 research, 0.5 enterprise and innovation) who provide support for colleagues in the
 administration of projects and bid development as well as organising conferences and seminars.
 In addition, they support postgraduate students with claims for expenditure. The research centres
 each have 1 FTE administrative support.

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The Research and Innovation Funding Unit (RIFU) provides targeted support to members of
 the Unit who seek to secure funding for their research and knowledge exchange activities. As part
 of the decision to target specific funders that align with the values base of the centres, RIFU has
 worked closely with NICER and LASAR in relation to proposal development and in forward-
 planning for future bids. The recent success in securing bids for research looking at the impact of
 Covid-19 in their respective areas is a direct result of this support. More recently, RIFU has
 contributed to the Academic Professional Development Programme through offering bidding
 clinics where inexperienced researchers can develop ideas in small groups. Award administration
 is provided by the Faculty’s Finance and Enterprise team who work in support of the Senior
 Management Accountant (based in the Finance Office) on financial reporting.

 Unit members conducting research in physical education have access to the facilities at Polo Farm
 Sports Centre for teaching and research and are supported by a 0.5 FTE technician. All members
 of the Unit have access to a wide range of print and electronic resources held by the university’s
 Library and Learning Resources service. Research students and staff benefit from the expertise
 of a dedicated Education librarian. Membership of professional associations provide access to
 further digital resources, and researchers in faith-based education also have access to the
 Canterbury Cathedral Archives and Library.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Contribution to development of the profession

 The focus on practice and practitioner expertise in our work informs our deep commitment to
 projects and relationships that create opportunities for cross-sector cooperation, and which build
 the foundation for authentic professional autonomy. Work in this area reinforces our goal to
 conduct research that impacts on curriculum and which build relationships with our partners (SA2).
 For example, the Working with Families Hub, established in 2013 and led by SC and JA, was
 open to professionals working with families of children of all ages, or with a research interest in
 family support and wellbeing. It had very strong ties to local HomeStart schemes and Children's
 Centres, ran bi-monthly seminars and when it ended in 2019, had over 100 members. Our
 commitment to the development of the teaching profession is evident in our engagement with local
 and regional networks and with the wider community of schools, colleges and other HEIs (see
 Section 1). An example of this is the work carried out by SC to develop the teaching of sociology.
 This included her work as a British Sociological Association trustee for public engagement to raise
 the profile of Sociology within schools, running regular sixth form sociology conferences and
 establishing the South East Kent Sociology Teacher Hub. A further example is the Epistemic
 Insight consortium, led by BB, which brings together Canterbury Christ Church University, the
 University of Bedfordshire, Saint Mary’s University, University of Chester, University of Leicester,
 University of Roehampton and the University of Northampton to facilitate the sharing of expertise,
 skills, research and knowledge.

 Our commitment to the development of teacher professionalism and curriculum development
 (SA2) has been sustained and further expanded through targeted partnerships leading to new,
 tailored, in-service provision for teachers of English in overseas settings. For example, the
 Curriculum Reform for Civil Education and Promoting Diversity project developed non-accredited
 professional development for teachers in Israel and Georgia (LW). Our success in accessing


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funding for designing and supporting initiatives for teacher development in international contexts
 has provided rich data for longitudinal studies and further research which are in and of themselves
 impactful and will also build towards future impact analyses. Building on the successful Malaysia
 BEd in partnership with the Malaysian Ministry of Education (led by KB), our work in pre-service
 and in-service teacher development has grown. Alongside the Algerian Doctoral Initiative (see
 Section 2), colleagues have been involved in three professional development programmes
 projects specifically designed to strengthen and sustain the teaching quality in Palestine in
 collaboration with Universities in Palestine. Both projects focused on the co-creation of solutions
 and strategies for development in the region. The first project, Raising the Quality of Teacher
 Education Programmes in Palestine through technology Enhanced Learning and Teaching
 Assessment received 890,000 Euros from the European Commission’s Erasmus+ Key Action 2
 Higher Education Capacity Building project. The second project received US$300,000 in funding
 from the World Bank and expanded a previous World Bank project undertaken in Palestine
 between 2012 and 2015. The third project in 2019 was an award for research capacity
 enhancement in two countries. The total, £67,000 a year was split between the Faculty of Arts
 and Humanities and the Faculty of Education. Colleagues from Education, led by SH, LR, CB
 and MK worked with three partner universities in Palestine (including a site in Palestine and in the
 UK) to develop writing skills, qualitative research methods and bid writing skills.

 Education for Sustainable Futures

 In line with the Unit’s ambitions for greater social impact, the emerging network in sustainable and
 environmental education will be key to the Unit’s future strategic aims (SA1 and SA2). Staff
 involved in this research network have successfully established multiple relationships across the
 UK and contributed to policy forums and parliamentary debates. In 2019, AB provided case-study
 evidence for the Barnardo’s Scotland 2020 report, Supervision in Education – Healthier Schools
 for All and gave evidence at a Scottish Parliament roundtable on Supervision in Education, chaired
 by Deputy First Minister John Swinney. Swinney has claimed that the ‘findings in the Barnardo's
 report, will contribute to the work we are currently undertaking in partnership with local government
 and the teacher unions on the development of new professional learning opportunities for teachers
 focussed on their health and wellbeing’. Howells has contributed to several workstreams
 underpinning the Report by the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Fit and Healthy Childhood
 (movement, diet, role of supermarkets). AB and NK have engaged with local (Kent Wildlife Trust)
 and national partners (Sustainable Food Trust) to support sustainable approaches to outdoor
 learning, environmental education and conservation.

 Contribution to the discipline and the research base

 The Unit’s contribution to subject disciplines is shaped by our engagement in academic debates
 through journals, editing and supporting colleagues at other institutions. Staff play leadership roles
 in learned societies and subject associations: Royal Society of Biology Primary Curriculum
 Committee (BB), Froebel Trust (DV, SP). RB was President of the Association of University
 Lecturers of Religious Education between 2015 and 2019. LR is co-convenor of the World
 Education Research Association’s International Research Network on Education and Extremism,
 co-convenor of the BERA SIG on Religion, Values and Education, and assistant secretary for the
 International Seminar on Education and Values (ISREV). LW has been Visiting Professor at
 Università degli Studi di Milano-Bicocca [2017], Michigan State University (2019), and at Paris
 West Nanterre La Défense University (2015). In 2019, his book, written with Laura Formenti,

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Transforming Perspectives in Lifelong Learning and Adult Education, won the prestigious 2019
 American Association for Adult and Continuing Education’s Cyril O. Houle Award for ‘outstanding
 literature in education’. In 2020 he was inducted into the International Adult and Continuing
 Education’s Hall of Fame at the University of Oklahoma.

 Members of the Unit currently serve on the editorial boards of leading journals in their field,
 including: the British Journal of Religious Education (RB, LR), the Journal of Belief and Values
 (LR), the Journal of Education and Christian Belief (TC), International Journal of Christianity and
 Education (TC), SCIREA Journal of Sociology (MK), Language and Intercultural Communication
 and Discourses (Holliday). Other colleagues contributing to the activities of the Unit but not
 returned here have served on the editorial boards of the Journal of Research in Special
 Educational Needs (JORSEN), (SS), International Journal of Art Therapy: Inscape (AP), the
 Journal of Career Education and Counselling (HR).

 Unit members have peer-reviewed for over 55 national and international journals in the field of
 education and the related disciplines of language and linguistics, sociology, career development,
 and health care including the British Educational Research Journal, the Oxford Review of
 Education and Critical Discourse Studies.

 Members of the Unit contribute to the sustainability of the subject disciplines by supporting
 scholars at other institutions. They have acted as external examiners for PhD vivas including at
 the universities of Birmingham, Warwick, Gloucestershire, Birmingham City, (LR, 2018, 2019,
 2020), University of Cambridge (ID, 2017), AB, (Sheffield, 2019), RR (The London School of
 Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, 2018), TC (University of Oxford, University of Nottingham), the
 Universities of Warwick, Birkbeck, Bristol and UCL (LW, 2016, 2019, 2018, 2017).

 During the REF period, members of the Unit have been invited to give 37 keynotes or acted as
 chairs at national and international events. During this period, staff organised 39 conferences and
 67 research seminars in addition to the annual PGR conference. These events were a significant
 contribution to generating a sustainable research culture in the Unit. The annual Baby Room
 conference (2014-2018) received international recognition for raising the profile and status of baby
 room work and was instrumental in expanding and consolidating the impact of the Baby Room
 projects (ICS23.01: Improving policy and practice within early childhood, education and care (birth
 to two), through raising the status of the early years profession, improving specialist training and
 increasing investment). The peripatetic annual conference of the European Society for Research
 on the Education of Adults (ESREA: Life History and Biography Research Network), led by AB
 and LW attracts 80-100 participants. NICER organises a biannual seminar series for schools in
 the faith sector: its Faith in the Nexus conference (2019) (RB, AC) which launched the final report
 of the research project, attracted 70 participants from the UK and 22 international participants.




                                                                                             Page 14
