Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Nottingham

 Unit of Assessment: 9 Physics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Since REF2014 the School has expanded through the investment of £25.9M in new
 infrastructure and the appointment of 14 staff to new academic positions. Active research
 awards on the census date total £30.9M, with an overall research spend of £56.7M. Staff have
 disseminated our research through >700 invited talks at international conferences, >150 at UK
 conferences, and acted as chair and/or organiser for >80 conferences. Our research has been
 recognised by the award of 7 Institute of Physics (IOP) medals and prizes, 25 staff have held
 externally-funded personal fellowships, and Morris was appointed CBE in 2018 for services to
 magnetic resonance imaging.

 1.1 Research structure and strategy

 Research activity is structured across six groups:
                                                                      Category A Staff
  Astronomy (Astro)                                                         11
  Cold Atoms and Quantum Optics (ColdAtoms)                                  4
  Condensed Matter Theory (CMTh)                                            13
  Experimental Condensed Matter and Nanoscience (ECMN)                      22
  Particle Cosmology (PartCos)                                               7
  Sir Peter Mansfield Imaging Group (SPMIG)                                 12

 giving a total of 69 Category A staff (63.9 FTE).

 Our research strategy is co-ordinated by the School Director of Research (DoR; Patanè) who
 chairs the Research Committee (RC) and the Research Operations Group (ROG). The former is
 a broad forum for discussing long-term research strategy, while the latter meets monthly to co-
 ordinate our response to funding opportunities and operational research matters. Both groups
 have representatives from each research area, as well as members with specific responsibilities
 for financial and managerial aspects of research, infrastructure, technical services, and research
 ethics. The DoR reports to the School Management Group chaired by the Head of School (HoS;
 Fromhold, who served as DoR from 2008-16) and is a member of the Faculty of Science
 Research Committee. The DoR also leads discussions on research matters at the Staff
 Committee, whose membership includes all academic staff and key technical and administrative
 staff. Deputy Head of School (DHoS; Kent) leads on the development of research facilities,
 infrastructure, space management and PhD student finance. There is cross-representation
 between the RC, ROG and the School Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) Committee, ensuring that
 equality issues are considered in our research strategies.

 1.1.1 Research strategy and direction since REF2014
 Our strategic aims in REF2014 were developed to balance original, investigator-led, research
 with a recognition that our research is becoming increasingly concentrated on large-scale
 projects, often involving multiple universities and crossing traditional discipline boundaries.
 Accordingly, we have prioritised the integration and expansion of our research strengths into
 major programmes, including those within the University, while continuing to foster new research
 directions, which will form areas of growth beyond the assessment period.

 Our stated aims in REF2014 were:

     (i)     the promotion of interdisciplinary research;
     (ii)    the establishment of further links between research groups;
     (iii)   the enhancement of our international profile;


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     (iv)    the provision of a vibrant research environment to promote internationally-recognised
             research across all sub-disciplines;
     (v)     the realisation of the societal benefits of research through collaborations with
             partners across a range of governmental, healthcare and industrial sectors.

 Exemplars of the success of this strategic approach include:

  Quantum technology, quantum optics and biomedical imaging
 The development of quantum science and technology in areas linking our ColdAtoms, CMTh,
 ECMN and SPMIG groups has been a cornerstone of the School’s research strategy since 2006.
 Nottingham Physics is a key node in the Quantum Technologies (QT) Hub in Sensors and
 Timing and received £7.7M across the 2014 and 2019 funding rounds of the UK QT Programme
 to support new directions in atom-based quantum sensors. In collaboration with the ColdAtoms
 and CMTh groups, SPMIG researchers showed that optically pumped magnetometers (OPM)
 could detect neuromagnetic fields, leading to the development of a completely novel, wearable,
 magnetoencephalography (MEG) system. This work (in collaboration with the Wellcome Centre
 for Human Neuroimaging at UCL) represents a major advance in biomedical imaging and has
 led to the formation of a spin-out company, Cerca Magnetics Ltd, as described in Impact Case
 Study ICS OPM-MEG. Jensen (Copenhagen), an expert in ultra-sensitive magnetic field
 detection using atomic sensors, was appointed in 2018 to strengthen this activity. ColdAtoms
 was further strengthened through the appointment of Verlot (Lyon), holder of an ERC Starting
 Grant (2018), whose activity in optomechanics has already led (with Owers-Bradley and
 Nottingham’s School of Mathematical Sciences (MathSci)) to £1.4M funding from the 2020
 STFC initiative, ‘QT for Fundamental Physics’. In addition, with the Centre for Additive
 Manufacturing (Faculty of Engineering), and supported by an EPSRC Programme Grant (£6M),
 we have developed 3D-printed QT components and vacuum systems (see Sec. 1.2.2).

  University strategic initiatives: Beacons of Excellence
 In 2017, the University established 6 transdisciplinary Beacons of Excellence (£22.5M
 investment during census period), building on research strengths across the University and
 targeting goals with societal impact, Institutional Environment Statement Section 2.1a (IES2.1a).
 The School holds leadership positions in 3 of the Beacons and played a major role in shaping
 their themes. Patanè is a member of the Leadership Team of the Propulsion Futures Beacon,
 which focuses on innovative electrified propulsion systems for sustainable transport, with activity
 in Physics focused on new materials and devices. Bowtell, Director of the Sir Peter Mansfield
 Imaging Centre, is the Deputy Director of the Precision Imaging Beacon, in which Physics-based
 researchers develop new magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and MEG methods to improve the
 diagnosis and treatment of diseases. Francis is a member of the Steering Group of the Future
 Foods Beacon, which addresses sustainable food and nutritional security; SPMIG contribute
 expertise in biophysics and imaging to this programme. The School has received funds totalling
 £2.7M from the Beacons.

  Research exemplars
 We highlight examples of activities which have grown from breakthrough papers to acquire
 critical mass and a major international profile during the assessment period:

    Ultrafast spintronics using antiferromagnetism
    Campion, Edmonds, Jungwirth, Rushforth and Wadley (ECMN and CMTh), with the Czech
    Academy of Sciences and the Hitachi Cambridge Laboratory, demonstrated the first
    electrical control and readout of an all-antiferromagnetic memory device. This work grew
    from earlier Nottingham investigations of CuMnAs and offers the prospect of an ultrafast
    spintronic memory, as demonstrated in subsequent Nottingham papers. The work has
    stimulated a rapid, world-wide, expansion of the field of antiferromagnetic spintronics, the
    addition of antiferromagnets to the 2017 Magnetism Roadmap (J. Phys. D 50 363001 (2017))
    and dedicated symposia. This success has been supported through the appointment of
    Wadley to a proleptic lectureship.


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Theory of non-equilibrium systems
     Our strengths in this area have led to developments at the interface of classical and quantum
     many-body dynamics, many with direct connection to experiments. These include the
     emergence of constrained dynamics in atomic systems (so-called Rydberg Soft Matter),
     classical and quantum large deviation methods, and the prediction of novel dynamical states
     in driven open quantum systems. The recent appointments of Nunnenkamp (Cambridge) and
     Brandner (Keio, Japan) to CMTh have expanded our portfolio to encompass optomechanics,
     hybrid systems and quantum engines. The breadth and interdisciplinary nature of our
     research in this area led to the establishment in 2016 with MathSci of the ‘Centre for
     Mathematics and Theoretical Physics of Quantum Non-Equilibrium Systems’.

     Novel searches for dark energy
     Former Anne McLaren Fellow, now Professor, Burrage and Copeland (PartCos) proposed a
     new experiment to test dark energy forces using atom interferometry, which has been
     implemented by groups at Berkeley and Imperial, leading to tight constraints on previously
     favoured models. Burrage has also constructed a framework for testing dark energy with
     particle colliders, which has been adopted by the ATLAS collaboration. In 2016 Burrage
     received a £0.8M Leverhulme Trust Research Leadership Award (one of only 13 awarded
     triennially across all fields) to support the growth of this area, and, since 2016, she has acted
     as convenor of the ‘Beyond the Standard Model’ working group of the CERN Physics
     Beyond Colliders study to determine the future of CERN’s scientific programme. The award
     of a Nottingham Research Fellowship to Millington (PartCos) expands activity in this area.

     Renal MRI
     By adapting methods developed for brain imaging, Francis (SPMIG) demonstrated that MRI
     provides a powerful tool for quantitative assessment of kidney structure and function. This
     research seeded the growth of a wide-ranging programme on new MRI approaches for
     assessing, monitoring and managing kidney disease. Francis now leads the UK Renal
     Imaging Network, which brings together major UK research centres to translate renal MRI
     into clinical use. Her work is underpinned by a £0.8M MRC Partnership Grant and a £2.0M
     award from the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) and forms part of several
     imaging studies of the long-term effects of COVID-19, including the C-MORE study, part of
     the UKRI-funded Post-hospitalisation COVID-19 (PHOSP-COVID) programme (see ICS
     QuantMRI).

 1.1.2 Future research strategy
 We will continue to be guided by the strategic aims above, while building on recent infrastructure
 awards and our strengths in interdisciplinary areas, such as biomedical imaging and quantum
 technologies.

 Specific initiatives include:

        Two-dimensional (2D) materials and layered semiconductors
         ECMN members will establish a unique facility (EPI2SEM) for the EPItaxial growth of
         novel, metal chalcogenide 2D SEMiconductors, and their characterisation using electron
         spectroscopies and scanning probe microscopy. EPI2SEM is funded by a £2.9M EPSRC
         Strategic Equipment Award (Beton, Novikov, O’Shea, Patanè) and University support
         (£1M). In combination with a molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) system for the growth of
         graphene and boron nitride (installed in 2014), the ongoing collaboration of Eaves with
         Manchester on graphene heterostructures, THz acoustic investigations of van der Waals
         interfaces and devices, and the award of an Anne McLaren Fellowship to Yan for
         research on 2D ferroelectrics, EPI2SEM establishes Nottingham as a centre with critical
         mass for the growth and investigation of 2D semiconductors.

        Ultra-high field MRI
         We have led the collaborative effort to establish a national facility for ultra-high field
         (11.7T) human scanning, an area highlighted in the recent UKRI report, ‘The UK’s

                                                                                                      Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Research Innovation and Infrastructure: Opportunities to Grow our Capability’. The
        increased signal-to-noise-ratio (SNR) at 11.7T will translate into much richer information
        content in structural and functional imaging thus enabling the assessment of brain
        function with a spatial resolution approaching 100m, bridging the gap between standard
        neuroimaging and invasive electrophysiology/microscopy techniques. Additionally, gains
        in SNR for MR studies involving X-nuclei (e.g. 2H, 13C, 23Na and 31P) will significantly
        enhance metabolic mapping capability, opening new opportunities for patient studies in
        cancer and other diseases.

       Gravitational waves and measuring the fundamental forces of nature
        A new ‘Centre of Gravity’ brings together the School and MathSci, coordinating existing
        expertise in gravity and expanding into new areas. It encompasses fundamental physics,
        mathematics, cosmology, relativistic astrophysics, experimental data, and modelling. It
        will form a hub for research, PhD training, and outreach, and provide the critical mass
        needed to access additional funding streams e.g. the new STFC Gravitational Waves
        consolidated grants scheme.

       Machine learning (ML)
        Since 2014 all research groups have developed significant activity in ML. Astro and
        PartCos have applied deep learning and recurrent neural networks to the analysis of
        galaxies, clusters, gravitational lensing and large-scale cosmological structure. CMTh
        have explored connections between non-equilibrium statistical physics and ML, quantum
        dissipative neural networks, and interdisciplinary applications, for example on materials
        for healthcare with the School of Pharmacy. SPMIG and ECMN have used ML methods
        to analyse and classify MRI and scanning probe microscopy (SPM) images. Our
        research portfolio of ML-related research is now over £4M. We will exploit the synergies
        between these activities by bringing together relevant researchers in the School and
        building on our innovative postgraduate course on ML. The University has provided funds
        for a new 5-year appointment as part of their 2017 £0.7M Flexible Investment Fund
        ‘Science through AI’ programme in support of our growth strategy.

       Spin at the single atom limit
        EPSRC has awarded Moriarty a Strategic Equipment Grant (£1.1M) for an ultra-high
        vacuum (UHV) combined scanning tunnelling/atomic force microscope, which can be
        operated at temperatures down to 0.3K and magnetic fields up to 9T, a Senior Fellowship
        (£1.8M) and a Horizon grant (£200k) to study spin at the atomic scale. These awards and
        infrastructure will underpin collaborative activities linking antiferromagnetic spintronics,
        spin in adsorbed molecules, 2D materials, and the application of ML to SPM.

 We also identify selected research opportunities at the group level:

 Astro will build on its collaborative focus on the formation of galaxies and larger-scale structure
 in the Universe. It will blend established activities with newer large projects in which it is strongly
 invested, including major roles in exploiting SDSS-IV/MaNGA to dissect nearby galaxies and
 unveil their spatially-resolved properties and formation history. With its leading positions in
 WEAVE/LOFAR, Astro will study these systems in dense environments and the large-scale
 structure around them. Members are also strongly involved in the development of upcoming
 facilities such as the ELT, and in designing the next generation of surveys for instruments such
 as the Chinese Space Telescope, JWST, Euclid and the Rubin Observatory. This positions the
 group to lead in the exploitation of this wealth of data. Observations will be complemented by
 cutting-edge computational work on structure formation and on the evolution of the intergalactic
 medium. The group is also expanding its research on the applications of ML to large
 astronomical data sets in fields such as gravitational lensing and galaxy morphology.

 ColdAtoms will focus on quantum sensors, ranging from fundamental studies of quantum
 measurement limits to sensitive inertial force and magnetic field measurements. Building on the
 group's work on atomic gyroscopes, their demonstration of CMOS-based atom chips (integrating

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 photodiodes, rf signals and sequence control) for controlling cold atoms, and the 3D printing of
 alloy UHV chambers (see Quantum Technologies in Sec. 1.2.2), they will develop new quantum
 measurement systems. Collaboration with SPMIG will enable the translation of our ultra-
 sensitive, optically pumped magnetometers to new medical applications, while fundamental
 studies of nanomechanical oscillators will explore the limits of quantum macroscopicity and
 quantum effects at room temperature.

 CMTh will build on their combination of expertise in complex quantum systems, non-equilibrium
 classical and quantum dynamics, quantum transport and optical properties of 2D multilayer
 systems to identify and exploit opportunities in new and emerging areas including in-house
 theory-experiment links in opto-mechanics, 2D materials, quantum optics and magnetometry.
 The group will also maintain a leading role in the Nottingham Physics-led interdisciplinary
 initiative on Machine Learning in Science.

 ECMN will investigate nanoparticles and their applications in agriculture, cell-targeting and in-
 vivo fluorescence imaging. Investigations of Raman methods for cancer screening will continue
 with new activity on biological imaging using tip-enhanced Raman microscopy. THz acoustics
 activity will focus on superoscillation and superlensing effects, aiming for nanoscale acoustic
 imaging of, e.g., the structure of biological cells, while also extending activity on magnetostrictive
 nanostructures and magnon-phonon interactions. Soft matter research will be focused on flow
 and rheology in complex heterogeneous fluids formed from colloids, droplets and bubbles,
 including laboratory-based microgravity experiments. The group will continue to access national
 and international facilities, in particular the European Magnetic Field Laboratory and the
 Diamond, Soleil, ELETTRA and Advanced Light Source synchrotrons.

 PartCos will focus on understanding the nature of dark matter and dark energy, and the physics
 of the early Universe, underpinned by its membership of the Dark Energy Survey, Euclid and
 LISA. The group will pursue new tests to discriminate between modified gravity and general
 relativity, and continue to pioneer the design of table-top experiments as probes of screening
 fields. Within the new University of Nottingham (UoN) Centre of Gravity, the group will use data
 from LIGO and multi-messenger astronomy to probe cosmic strings, modified gravity, primordial
 black holes and electroweak phase transitions. It will also develop new ML techniques to extract
 signals of cosmological defects and dark energy in noisy data.

 SPMIG will combine extensive expertise in biomedical imaging and the physics of human
 biology, with unique infrastructure (enhanced by a 2014 MRC Clinical Research Infrastructure
 Initiative award (£7.7M)), to develop new imaging techniques for the study of human physiology
 and pathology. Together with the NIHR-funded Nottingham Biomedical Research Centre (BRC)
 and the pharmaceutical industry, we will exploit these techniques to investigate mechanisms of
 action of treatments, including neuromodulation, and also to develop methods to predict
 responses to therapies. Further development and application of OPM-based biomagnetic
 approaches to measure physiological activity, particularly in the brain, fetus and gut, will also be
 a priority, supported by the second phase of the QT Hub in Sensors and Timing.

 1.2 Impact
 1.2.1 Impact strategy, management and monitoring
 The DoR has overall responsibility for impact, assisted by the School Head of Operations and
 our Research Support Officer, both of whom sit on RC and ROG. Supported by the QT Hub, we
 have also appointed a Business Development Manager to develop industrial collaborations,
 assist with management of externally-funded projects, and provide guidance on intellectual
 property (IP). External evaluation of our policies, advice on new opportunities, and access to
 commercial approaches for the evaluation of technological exploitation is provided by our
 Strategic Advisory Board (SAB), formed in 2012. The SAB has an external membership drawn
 from industry (current representation: Teledyne UK, Experian, DAB-Pfizer and Rolls Royce) and
 government agencies (STFC).



                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School has a range of mechanisms (PhD studentships, research leave, access to
 infrastructure and facilities) to support the translation of our research. Since REF2014, staff have
 been awarded impact-related and industrial funding totalling £2.9M, including £0.6M of
 University-administered Higher Education Innovation Fund and/or EPSRC funds, such as the
 EPSRC Impact Acceleration Account (16 awards; total £475k), Hermes fellowships (7 awards;
 total £83k) and a Knowledge Transfer Secondment (£45k). We have also been awarded 5
 Innovate UK (IUK) projects with a total value of £3.9 M (Nottingham share £0.6M) held jointly
 with 10 UK-based companies, and 3 Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (Dstl)
 Defence and Security Accelerator (DASA) projects (total value £231k). In addition, we have
 received £1.4M directly from industrial sponsors and collaborators.

 The School also provides advice on available funding streams, protection of IP, development of
 links with industrial collaborators and the formation of spin-out companies. Researchers are
 encouraged to consider the value of IP at an early stage by submitting promising ideas via a
 Disclosure Form to the University’s IP Commercialisation team who evaluate IP, advise on
 commercialisation, and co-ordinate the preparation and submission of patents. During the
 assessment period members of the School have submitted 60 Disclosure Forms which have led
 to the filing of 12 patents.

 In REF2014 we identified the importance of working with other disciplines, particularly medicine
 and engineering, for the translation of our research; this strategy is linked to our approach to
 interdisciplinary research (Sec. 1.3). Several of our successes in impact have resulted from our
 long-term support for cross-Faculty (with Medicine and Engineering) collaborations.

 1.2.2 Impact activity
 Impact has been realised through direct commercialisation, outreach, contributions to
 governmental and regulatory standards, long-term industrial partnerships, collaborations with
 medical practitioners, and links with national security agencies.

 We highlight the following areas which all have the potential for further significant growth:

     Quantum technologies
    Translation of our QT activity related to MEG, including the establishment of spin-out
    company, Cerca Magnetics Ltd, is described in ICS OPM-MEG. We are also developing new
    designs of OPM for applications in healthcare (e.g. fetal heart monitoring), security
    (mine/submarine detection) and industry (non-destructive testing) funded by IUK and the Dstl
    DASA scheme. Through our role in the QT Hub we have links to >50 companies and are
    engaged in collaborative technology transfer with governmental organisations (National
    Physical Laboratory (NPL), British Geological Survey) and 15 industrial partners in the areas
    of sensors, navigation and geophysical survey. For example, Fromhold (CMTh), three
    companies (Microchip, Compound Semiconductor Technologies, Inex Microtechnology) and
    NPL were awarded £1.9M by IUK to develop chip scale OPMs for non-destructive testing
    applications. An IUK award (£450k total, £165k to Physics) to Fromhold and Hackermüller
    (ColdAtoms), with the Centre for Additive Manufacturing (Nottingham Engineering) and an
    associated spin-out, Added Scientific Ltd, supported the manufacture of components
    developed through Nottingham QT Hub activity. These include working prototype magneto-
    optical traps with 3D-printed UHV chambers and battery-powered trapping coils (drawing on
    SPMIG expertise in MRI gradient coil design), for QT applications including magnetic
    screening and measurement, and, with Makarovskiy (ECMN), will be extended to the
    integration of flakes of graphene and 2D materials into 3D-printed structures.

     Biomedical imaging
    In collaborative research, SPMIG use MRI to provide unique insights through non-invasive
    studies of, for example, kidney and liver disease, the gastrointestinal tract, multiple sclerosis,
    schizophrenia, mild traumatic brain injury and Parkinson’s disease, plus the application of
    novel biomedical imaging in neuroscience. Our MRI research forms the basis of two case
    studies: ICS QuantMRI is related to medical diagnostics and applications in the food and

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    pharmaceutical sectors, and ICS EMReg describes how our research has provided the basis
    for transnational regulatory frameworks for electromagnetic field exposure. In addition,
    Notingher (ECMN) has developed fast Raman methods for the imaging and analysis of
    human tissue samples during cancer surgery, with tests of a prototype commercial system
    underway.

     Surfaces, semiconductors and spintronics
    A strategic alliance with Teledyne UK (>2000 employees, global sales £150M) who
    established a facility in the School in 2010 to manufacture and develop microwave and THz
    devices (also supported by a Knowledge Training Partnership (KTP) (£194k)) is described in
    ICS Teledyne. The demonstration of a new all-antiferromagnetic memory device (see Sec.
    1.1.1) has led to the filing of 3 patents. In the areas of surfaces and soft matter: O’Shea's
    company Molecularspray Ltd. commercialise electrospray deposition equipment developed
    in the School; Sharp has applied, with support from the Home Office, Time of Flight
    Secondary Ion Mass Spectroscopy to image fingerprints on bullet casings, and developed,
    with Adidas, an optical dynamic contact imaging system to measure the pressure and
    frictional force distributions beneath sports shoes; Smith works with Schlumberger UK on the
    adhesion of yield stress fluids to surfaces, a fundamental problem in biofouling; Campion,
    funded by a KTP (£238k), collaborates with Photek, a global manufacturer of vacuum-based
    photon detectors, on a novel MBE manufacturing process.

     Outreach
    For over a decade we have developed novel, social media-based, outreach activities. In ICS
    Sixty Symbols we highlight the delivery of content through the YouTube channel Sixty
    Symbols. Our outreach activities are discussed in detail in Sec. 4.2.

 1.3 Interdisciplinary research
 The School promotes interdisciplinary research through the allocation of PhD students,
 resources for cross-Faculty research centres, and appointments. Members of the School have
 ongoing collaborations with all Schools in the University’s Faculty of Science and with all other
 Faculties, in particular Engineering, and Medicine and Health Sciences, as well as extensive
 external interdisciplinary collaborations (see Sec. 4.1); 28% of our returned outputs have co-
 authors from another discipline.

 The Sir Peter Mansfield Imaging Centre (SPMIC), formed in 2015, brings together researchers in
 SPMIG, Medicine, and Psychology to provide a focal point for collaborations with NHS clinicians,
 life scientists and industry in the area of biomedical imaging. In addition to SPMIG’s leading
 roles in the University Beacons of Excellence in Precision Imaging and Future Foods, Gowland
 co-leads the University’s Interdisciplinary Research Cluster (IRC) in Technological Innovations
 for Health and Wellbeing. Notingher (ECMN) works with the Schools of Pharmacy and Medicine
 on the Raman imaging of live cells and nano-scale investigations of pharmaceutical
 formulations.

 The School is a major partner, with the Schools of Chemistry and Pharmacy, and the Faculty of
 Engineering, in the Nanoscale and Microscale Research Centre (nmRC), which houses
 extensive material characterisation facilities (see Sec. 3.2) and enhances the strong
 interdisciplinary links of the ECMN and CMTh groups. University-supported Doctoral Training
 Centres promote interdisciplinary research within nmRC, with 12 studentships awarded to
 Physics since 2015. We collaborate with chemists on 2D supramolecular assembly,
 biocompatible quantum dots, photovoltaic materials, photo-electron spectroscopy and hybrid
 biocompatible nanostructures.

 Mao (CMTh) is the Director of the Laboratory of Urban Complexity and Sustainability, which
 fosters interdisciplinary research in Computing and Geography, on the social, economic and
 environmental sustainability of cities, funded by a £1.5M Leverhulme Research Programme
 Grant. O'Shea (ECMN) is Director of the University of Nottingham Energy Technologies
 Research Institute, which co-ordinates energy research across a range of disciplines and played

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a key role in securing the Energy Research Accelerator (£60M IUK project), and 4 (2 current)
 Energy-themed EPSRC CDTs. Hackermüller (ColdAtoms) leads the University’s Quantum IRC.
 1.4 Open research (IES2.3)
 Publications are available from the University’s Repository@Nottingham and in many cases also
 from the arXiv. Our Research Support Officer monitors publications to ensure compliance with
 institutional and funders’ open access policies. We follow the Research Data Management
 policies of the University and our funding agencies, and have held a training event for staff. To
 support reproducibility, raw and processed simulation data are stored in the Nottingham
 Research Data Management Repository where they are publicly accessible and linked to
 published papers. Astronomical data are normally archived by the telescope/facility, or,
 alternatively, stored on our local servers for a minimum of 10 years. Data catalogues are
 uploaded to data centres. Data products from numerical simulations are made publicly available
 from local servers, while raw data are available on request, due to the large (~100TB) size.
 Where appropriate, codes are made available via public sites, such as GitHub.

 1.5 Research integrity (IES2.4)
 Responsibility for research integrity lies with the RC and ROG, working closely with the D&I
 Committee. Research governance is a standing item on the agendas of these groups ensuring a
 constant review of the impact of new technologies and working practices. Our Research Ethics
 Officer (Gowland, who also chairs the University’s Research Integrity and Research Ethics
 Committee) is responsible for ensuring that all human studies have the correct regulatory and
 ethical approvals; SPMIG staff involved in human experiments have Good Clinical Practice
 training and human data are archived on GDPR compliant, secure central servers. We have
 introduced processes to check that grant submissions and student projects have considered
 research governance, ethics and safety issues. Postgraduate students are trained on research
 practice, integrity, safety, and ethics by their supervisors and through centrally-organised
 courses.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Our strategy is to recruit and retain the best international talent. During the census period, 4
 academic staff have retired or left the School, while 14 staff have been appointed to new
 permanent academic positions. We have been particularly successful in attracting leading
 early career researchers (ECR) who hold Research Council, Royal Society (RS), and/or
 Nottingham Research and Anne McLaren Fellowships (NRF/AMF) to proleptic permanent
 positions; 12 of our new positions have been filled through this route. Since 2014 there were 8 (3
 female (F)) promotions to Professor and 13 (3F, one of whom was also subsequently promoted
 to Professor) to Associate Professor.

 New appointees (in addition to Brandner, Jensen, Nunnenkamp, Verlot and Wadley, discussed
 in Sec. 1.1.1) have strengthened our research as follows: Russell (AMF, STFC Ernest
 Rutherford Fellow) extends the Astro group’s expertise in galaxy clusters and X-ray
 observations; Potapov has brought unique expertise to SPMIG in dynamic nuclear polarisation
 with magic angle spinning and the application of this approach to biomolecules; Saywell (ECMN)
 has established a highly interdisciplinary programme to investigate the interaction of gases with
 adsorbed molecules using low temperature SPM. A further 6 staff with fellowships awarded prior
 to the assessment period transferred to newly-created permanent posts in CMTh (Li, Olmos),
 PartCos (Avgoustidis, Moss), ECMN (Smith) and Astro (Dye). We have also made several
 appointments since the REF census date: Bertini, a RS University Research Fellow (URF) joins
 CMTh in autumn 2021 as a proleptic lecturer; Millington (PartCos, NRF) and Weir (ECMN,
 Beacon-funded NRF) commenced personal fellowships in late 2020. New staff are invited to give
 a colloquium soon after arrival to introduce their research to the whole School.

 The first phase of our future recruitment plan is to appoint two lecturers in: ECMN, with
 particular focus on spintronics; CMTh linking with ECMN, especially in 2D materials. We will also

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 recruit to a 5-year post in machine learning, funded by the University’s Flexible Investment Fund,
 to foster multidisciplinary research. Future recruitment will prioritise research that builds on major
 capital investments (2D materials, 11.7T MRI scanner, OPM-MEG, low temperature SPM), long-
 term inter-University strategic investments such as Quantum Technologies, and the appointment
 of internationally-leading ECRs across all areas of our activity.

 2.1.1 Staffing profile
 The age and gender profiles of our 69 returned staff are tabulated below. The fraction of female
 staff, 20% overall, is close to female representation at Professorial level, 18%, up from 9% in
 2014, but the ratio is lower at Associate Professor level. This may be a legacy effect; while 28%
 of staff are aged over 55, only 7% of female staff are in this age range, suggesting that a re-
 balancing will occur in the medium term as older staff retire. Of all returned staff, 10% are
 BAME. Of postdoctoral staff, roughly 30% are female and 25% BAME. The School operates a
 Diversity in Recruitment policy. People from underrepresented groups are actively encouraged
 to apply for advertised positions, and diversity characteristics are monitored throughout the
 hiring process. Any problems are discussed at the D&I committee, and reported to the Staff
 Committee. The Gender Decoder tool for analysing language is applied to all job adverts in order
 to avoid wording which may deter underrepresented groups, in particular women, from applying.

                             Total       Professor       Associate      Assistant Professor/ Senior
                                                         Professor           Research Fellow
   Number (%) female        14 (20)        5 (18)          2 (10)                  7 (32)
    Number (%) male         55 (80)       23 (82)         17 (90)                 15 (68)


    Age range          26-35            36-45            46-55            56-65             65+
                        6%               44%              23%              23%              3%

 Our age profile is considered annually by the HoS, DHoS and DoR in the context of succession
 planning to ensure the smooth transfer of responsibilities for research (for example the
 appointment of Bowtell as Director of SPMIC following the transfer of Morris to a part-time
 contract in 2016) and the mitigation of the loss of key expertise and technical support. Our
 success in attracting ECRs holding fellowships in targeted areas has also allowed us to manage
 our staff profile, balancing the sustainability of current activities with new directions and
 opportunities.

 2.1.2 Career progression and development
 Advice on career development is provided through the University’s Appraisal and Development
 Conversation (ADC) process (IES3.1) which, in the spirit of the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers, is applied uniformly to research and academic staff, as well as to
 technical and support staff. All staff have biannual meetings with their Appraiser to discuss
 progress and future priorities, tailored to career stage (the Appraiser and Line Manager roles are
 separated ensuring that staff are given impartial guidance). Appraisers provide a range of advice
 regarding postdoctoral opportunities (for research staff), fellowship applications, the challenges
 of the transition to an academic role, postgraduate supervision, training opportunities and the
 balance of research, impact and teaching duties.

 The ADC process also provides a forum for discussion of impact (translational research,
 commercialisation, outreach) and access to associated support mechanisms (see Sec. 1.2.1;
 staff are also contractually entitled to perform 50 days per year of external consultancy). In
 addition, discussions can include applications for study leave to support new research and
 impact initiatives including industrial secondments, extended research placements and
 international collaborations. In accordance with the University's policy (IES3.1) staff can apply for
 one semester of leave in every seven semesters. Applications are prioritised by the HoS and
 DoR against School research strategy; 21 academic staff have taken study leave since 2014.


                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School’s Research Staff Committee (RStC) provides a forum for discussion between post-
 doctoral research staff and senior academics. The Concordat highlights the benefits of
 involving research staff in strategy development and decision making; accordingly, research staff
 representatives, who report to RStC, have been appointed to the School’s D&I, Research,
 Safety, Staff, and Teaching Committees. We encourage research staff to be named researchers
 on grant applications and to assist with undergraduate teaching, supported by comprehensive
 training. During the REF period, 46 of our research staff or PhD students have obtained
 permanent academic posts in 19 different countries.

 We also operate a Support Staff meeting providing a forum for our technical and support staff to
 discuss with the School leadership (HoS, DHoS) training opportunities, and issues of concern,
 risk, and potential for improvements in the delivery of technical services.

 Newly-appointed lecturers are assigned an experienced academic mentor, to provide advice on
 e.g. procedures, postgraduate supervision, and are supported through specific courses on
 teaching, research and PhD supervision, have a teaching workload that ramps linearly to a full
 load over four years, and have priority access to PhD studentships and pump-priming grants.
 Since the outbreak of COVID-19, induction and mentoring for newly-arrived staff has been
 performed online.

 For all staff, balancing the demands of teaching, administration and research is a priority. The
 School has had a workload model for more than 15 years, which has recently been superseded
 by a University scheme including all internal and external activities. A shadow lecturer scheme
 provides cover for teaching duties, allowing staff to undertake international visits or to give
 invited talks at major international conferences. Major administrative roles are rotated within the
 school every ~5 years. Our Staff Development Committee promotes training opportunities
 offered by the University’s Professional Development Service; it also organises biennial staff
 training sessions on e.g. PhD supervision, open access publication, impact and grant writing.
 Three staff have participated in the University’s ‘Research Leaders Programme’.

 All staff are encouraged to seek personal research fellowships and are supported via
 feedback (including from external consultants) on applications and mock interviews. 30 Category
 A staff have held personal fellowships during the assessment period, including 22 new awards: 2
 EPSRC Career Acceleration Fellowships (Hill, Rushforth), 1 EPSRC Established Career
 Fellowship (Notingher), 1 EPSRC Leadership Fellowship (Moriarty), 1 ERC Advanced Grant
 (Conselice), 2 ERC Starting Grants (Lesanovsky, Verlot), 2 Leverhulme Trust Early Career
 Fellowships (Sanchez Panchuelo, Wadley), 3 Leverhulme Trust Research Fellowships (Beton,
 Copeland, Patanè), 8 RS URFs (Bolton, Burrage, Moss, Nunnenkamp, Padilla, Saywell, Smith,
 Wadley), 5 STFC Ernest Rutherford Fellowships (Bamford, Dye, Gray, Hatch, Russell), 1 UKRI
 Future Leaders Fellowship (Brandner), 8 NRF/AMFs (IES3.2) won in open competition
 (Avgoustidis, Brandner, Li, Marcuzzi, Mullinger, Russell, Saywell, Yan).

 Following discussions at RStC, training in the preparation of fellowship applications is included
 at our Away Day for research staff; since 2014, this has led to 20 successful fellowship
 applications by our research staff and PhD students (7 are held in Nottingham, enhancing both
 the career of the fellowship holders and our research portfolio). We have also hosted 18
 additional postdoctoral researchers with competitively-awarded personal fellowships since 2014.

 The UoN has an annual promotion round for research and academic staff, with guidance
 provided to all eligible candidates. Staff are offered opportunities to discuss career progression
 with the HoS, who also discusses promotion with any staff who have not been promoted in the
 last 5 years, to ensure all potential candidates are identified. Applicants submit their paperwork
 to the School Promotions Group, which is chaired by the HoS and composed of female and male
 staff with broad research and teaching expertise. This group advises the candidate on the
 likelihood of success and provides feedback on their case. The finalised applications are
 submitted to a Faculty Promotions Group and then to the University Promotions Committee.
 Separately, staff can be nominated for bonuses for exceptional performance in teaching,

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research or impact-related activity under the Nottingham Rewards Scheme (15 awards to
 Physics in 19/20 totalling £24k).

 2.2 Postgraduate research students (PGR)
 PhD student recruitment, monitoring and support are overseen by the Postgraduate Committee
 which, along with the D&I Committee, has PhD student representation. We currently have 110
 research students, and, since 2014, have awarded, on average, 29 PhDs per year.

 Studentships are advertised widely to attract a diverse cohort of well-qualified candidates and
 we receive applications from, typically, 130 students per year. Applicants are interviewed by
 multiple staff, given a departmental tour and an opportunity to meet current PhD students; some
 research groups (Astro, PartCos) run specific interview days, while others (ECMN, CMTh,
 ColdAtoms, SPMIG) have a rolling programme of recruitment (visits and meetings for
 prospective PhD students have been replaced by an online process during the ongoing
 pandemic). We ensure that the diversity of interviewers and postgraduate helpers reflects our
 staff and postgraduate populations. The gender balance of applications and offers is monitored
 and changes have been made to research group websites and interview processes to make
 them more inclusive to underrepresented groups. Since 2014, 32% of our PhD intake has been
 female and 28% BAME.

 Studentships are funded by a wide range of sources (see table below): EPSRC and STFC
 doctoral training accounts (DTAs), research grants, Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs,
 including the EPSRC/MRC funded Oxford-Nottingham Biomedical Imaging CDT), the QT Hub,
 EU Initial Training Networks (ITNs) and other schemes. School/University-funded studentships
 are allocated strategically, to leverage funding, and to support ECRs, staff returning from leave,
 or new research programmes. Self-funded students are predominantly international students
 funded by scholarships or their governments. Our annual summer internship scheme provides
 ~15 research placements for top-class undergraduates; since 2014, 15 internees have enrolled
 as PhD students in the School.

              Total number of studentships 2013/14-2019/20 by main funding source

  Funding School/   EPSRC           STFC     Research    CDTs      QT       EU       Self    Other
  source University  DTA            DTA        grant               Hub     ITNs
  Number    52        33             28         27         21       15       7       43       19

 All students are assigned at least two supervisors. Student progress is monitored by mandatory
 monthly meetings that are formally recorded. At the end of their 1st and 2nd years, students
 submit a short written report, followed by an interview with a member of staff other than their
 supervisor. The fraction completing within 5 years has improved from 70% in 2012/13 to a 5-
 year average of 88% (73% submit theses within 4 years). Individual extenuating circumstances
 (predominantly ill health) account for most late submissions.

 Pastoral support is available from two Postgraduate Tutors (one with responsibility for
 international students), a Special Tutor for female students and (since 2016) a dedicated School
 Welfare Officer. Since 2017, a student-led School Postgraduate Peer Mentoring programme
 assigns mentors to incoming postgraduate students on request. The School supports multiple
 self-organised groups for postgrads (LGBT+, female students, and BAME). In 2020 our PhD
 students organised a national Postgraduate Women in Physics Conference.

 The Midlands Physics Alliance Graduate School provides a platform for high-quality, wide-
 ranging, postgraduate training. Currently 26 modules are offered, covering a diverse range of
 topics in physics, astronomy, statistics, and scientific programming. All 67 students in the
 Oxford-Nottingham Biomedical Imaging CDT participated in specialist training at Nottingham.
 We also hold in-house workshops to train students in writing research proposals, and careers
 workshops, where former Nottingham PhD students discuss career paths (within and outside
 academia). The University’s Researcher Academy (IES3.3) provides additional generic skills

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 training. Students are encouraged to contribute to impact activities; since 2014, 7 students have
 been named on patent applications and their contributions are fully recognised by priority
 allocation of associated IP income.

 Each research group organises regular research seminars. Monthly colloquia by internationally-
 leading researchers ensure that students and staff learn about topics outside their field. PhD
 students present their work at regular group meetings and, often funded by the School, at
 international conferences. A School postgraduate poster competition, sponsored by the scientific
 software company Tessella, is held annually. We strongly encourage student-led activities, such
 as journal clubs, to develop transferable skills. Students also run our highly successful
 Inflativerse outreach project and provide demonstrations and talks to local schools, public events
 and widening participation activities.

 To mitigate the disruption caused by COVID-19, we have provided computers and related
 support to ensure that all PhD students can work effectively from home, while the University has
 provided funded extensions to students nearing completion (IES COVID-19 annex). In addition,
 we have replaced our community-building events with online activities.

 2.3 Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI)
 Within the University, the School has played a leading role in the integration of equality and
 diversity issues into policies and strategies at both the School and institutional level. Our D&I
 Committee was formed in 2007 to implement strategies and policies to ensure that staff and
 students are treated solely on the basis of their merits, abilities and potential, independent of
 protected characteristics. Its membership includes academic, technical, research and
 administrative staff, together with undergraduate and postgraduate students. We received an
 Athena Swan Silver award in 2010 (re-awarded in 2017), contributed extensively to the
 University’s Institutional Silver awards in 2012 and 2018, and are also an IOP Project Juno
 Champion. The D&I Committee meets quarterly (and its sub-committee, the Athena Swan Self-
 Assessment Team more frequently) to discuss challenges and new initiatives related to
 underrepresented groups in physics. The School runs biennial equality and diversity training
 events for all staff. New staff also complete online diversity training during their induction.

 A quarterly newsletter, produced by the D&I Committee, is circulated to all School members. The
 newsletter publicises upcoming events and promotes awareness of actions the School is taking
 to address diversity issues. D&I is a standing item on the agendas of the Academic Staff,
 Research Staff and Support Staff Committees. Feedback is obtained via anonymous surveys
 and focus groups for specific groups (e.g. Female PGR and LGBT+ PGR) and issues (COVID-
 19). Networks (for PGR and staff) for Women, LGBT+, BAME and Disabilities provide a
 framework for mentoring members of underrepresented groups. An online D&I comments box
 (advertised in the D&I newsletter) is available for any member of the School to anonymously
 report any issue of concern. Responses are posted on the intranet, and a senior member of staff
 also reports to the relevant committee. We have introduced best practice guidance to promote
 more diversity of colloquium and seminar speakers; the percentage of female colloquium
 speakers has increased from 20% to 60% since 2017/18. Each year, one of the monthly School
 colloquia is focused on an EDI topic. Past topics include outreach activities aimed at
 encouraging BAME students into physics, and the experience of LGBT+ researchers in the
 physics community.

 We have been very successful in supporting applications to the University’s AMF scheme
 targeted at outstanding female ECRs (IES3.2). Since 2014 the School has hosted 6 AMFs, of
 whom 4 subsequently won RS/STFC fellowships, and, currently, 3/1/1 are
 Assistant/Associate/Full Professor. Four of our five ICSs involve female members of staff.

 The School is part of the UoN STEMM-CHANGE program (funded by an EPSRC Inclusion
 Matters grant, Co-I Burrage). Part of this project addresses how biases in the use of language
 can impact negatively on recruitment, promotion and career progression. This research has
 already led to improvements in our recruitment practices. The project also considers how

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 language use by the public, particularly online, can deter certain groups of scientists from
 participation in outreach activities, and negatively impact their career progression. STEMM-
 CHANGE has also supported a reverse mentoring scheme (5 Physics staff have been paired
 with mentors with protected characteristics or from underrepresented groups), which has led to
 School and University-level improvements in the process of making adjustments for colleagues
 with disabilities. The project also includes an innovative mentorship and upskilling programme
 specifically for technical staff, in support of career development opportunities for
 underrepresented groups (a Physics technician has participated).

 In a 2017 School survey, 34% of academic staff reported that they had taken advantage of the
 University’s policies to work flexibly at some point (13% of Cat. A staff are currently part-time).
 To encourage a culture that accepts part-time working as a norm, some senior staff include their
 part-time status in their email signatures and our D&I newsletter has featured interviews with
 staff who work part-time. A longstanding scheme operated by the School to support childcare
 costs during conference attendance has recently been superseded by University- and Faculty-
 led arrangements, which also cover research visits. Of the 21 staff who have taken study leave
 (see Sec. 2.1.2) during the REF period, 4 are female.

 All of our staffing policies (Sec. 2.1) apply equally to those on fixed-term contracts with
 particular emphasis on fellowship applications, career opportunities outside academia, and how
 to develop an independent research programme. Fixed-term staff are offered an interview with
 the Head of Operations covering career planning and CV development three months before the
 end of their contract.

 The School is strongly supportive of any staff member (including fixed-term and part-time staff)
 taking maternity/adoption/shared parental leave. Staff are encouraged to do an assessment,
 with Human Resources and the HoS, of the impact of leave on their career development and
 research. Staff can take advantage of ‘Keeping-in-Touch Days’ and other forms of contact to
 maintain research activity during leave. We strongly support University policies that offer a
 variety of routes back to work, including job-share, term-time or part-time working; staff are also
 encouraged to use accrued annual leave to phase their return to work. We have a policy that no
 teaching is required in the first semester after return to work. The School offers further tailored
 support, such as temporarily reduced/flexible hours and provision for breast feeding/pumping. In
 a new voluntary School scheme, staff returning to work are paired with a mentor with recent
 experience of this transition. The School offers paid maternity leave for Home/EU PGR.

 We have various policies to support staff well-being. The School annually consults staff to
 ensure that the timetable accommodates caring responsibilities; in an anonymous survey 23% of
 staff had taken advantage of this mechanism with support from the School. Whole-School
 meetings, events and training are held in core hours. ‘Gender-neutral’ (in addition to female and
 male) toilets have been installed in the main Physics building. Through our workload allocation
 model (see Sec. 2.1.2) we check for imbalances between groups of staff with and without
 protected characteristics. Staff with disabilities have their workload reduced in line with
 University policy. Our shadowing system for teaching aims to minimise work-related stress on
 staff who must suddenly respond to family crises. To combat the long-hours culture in academia,
 all staff are encouraged to take their leave entitlement. An anonymous survey has been carried
 out to identify causes of stress. Consequently, information on how to request assistance with
 various processes has been clarified and better publicised. Support for research student well-
 being is described in Sec. 2.2.

 In response to COVID-19 our buildings were closed in March 2020 with a partial opening of
 experimental facilities in July 2020. The rapid switch to online teaching placed extreme
 downstream pressure on our research activities. To mitigate these effects we have: streamlined
 teaching, assessment and administrative loads; appointed three temporary Teaching Assistants
 to release staff research time in 2021/22; identified where COVID-19 affected individual staff or
 research projects particularly badly, and prioritised resources (including, after discussions in the
 D&I Committee, PhD studentships) accordingly. The pandemic has also greatly accelerated our

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 implementation of flexible working practices, by taking advantage of online media to interact
 through meetings and research seminars, as well as teaching.

 The preparation of our REF submission has been guided throughout by the University’s REF
 Code of Practice (IES3.6). Those with specific REF responsibilities have undergone REF EDI
 training and the Code has also governed our identification of Independent Researchers. All staff
 were invited to identify papers for inclusion in our submission. Members of RC and ROG
 (including Assistant, Associate and full Professors) ranked papers in each research area with
 further benchmarking between groups by the School REF co-ordinator taking account of the
 Declaration on Research Assessment. In autumn 2020 a provisional selection of outputs was
 circulated to all staff to provide an opportunity for further comment and suggestions; the final
 selection was circulated in March 2021. The average number of REF outputs assigned to both
 female and male staff is 2.5.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 In accordance with our research strategy (Sec. 1.1.1) we support projects with scales that vary
 from consortia-led programmes, often involving several universities and/or disciplines, to
 focused activities involving smaller groups of investigators. The DoR, aided by ROG and the RC,
 monitors external funding calls and highlights potential opportunities to relevant staff. Support for
 the preparation of proposals, for example with costings, estimates of technical support, safety
 and space allocation, is provided by our Research Support Officer. For larger-scale proposals,
 the University’s Research and Innovation department assists with contractual and IP issues. The
 School offers further support, for example partial funding of equipment and PhD studentships,
 for grants of particular strategic significance and/or with potential for impact (Sec. 1.2). The DoR
 also negotiates University support for major applications, and monitors our research portfolio,
 including the gender balance of proposals led by the School; 26% have had a female PI since
 2017, consistent with the staff population.

 These mechanisms have leveraged the growth of              Group        Income         Income
 external funding in each of our research sub-                                       (per person)
 disciplines. The value of awards active on the              Astro        £4.3M          £0.4M
 census date is £30.9M, while the overall research
                                                          ColdAtoms       £5.3M          £1.3M
 spend (REF4b) is £56.7M (table shows the
                                                             CMTh         £8.2M          £0.7M
 breakdown by research group). In the STFC area,
                                                             ECMN        £17.1M          £0.9M
 our Astro and PartCos groups have held
 PPARC/STFC Consolidated Grants since their                 PartCos       £3.1M          £0.4M
 introduction; the value of both awards has                 SPMIG        £18.6M          £1.7M
 approximately doubled since 2014, with
 concomitant increases in postdoc support, and are currently £1.5M (Astro, PI Gray) and £0.9M
 (PartCos, PI Copeland). Funding from the QT Hub (£7.7M) has supported the provision of new
 infrastructure (£3.6M; see Sec. 3.2) and support for staff and consumables, enabling
 researchers in SPMIG, ECMN, CMTh and ColdAtoms to expand their activities in quantum
 sensing (see Sec. 1.1.1, ICS OPM-MEG). ColdAtoms have received further support from the US
 Defence Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), ERC, EPSRC and other sources to
 extend activity on nanomechanical systems, gyroscopes and additive printing of quantum
 systems. Our condensed matter research is funded principally through the EPSRC, EU and
 ERC; research successes in this area (see Sec. 1.1.1) have been underpinned by major awards
 for equipment, responsive mode grants and personal fellowships. SPMIG, and biomedical
 imaging researchers in ECMN, have, with the School of Medicine, attracted extensive support
 from the EPSRC, MRC, NIHR and Wellcome for major interdisciplinary consortium-based
 projects involving clinicians, psychologists and healthcare professionals, as well as extensive
 industrial support (£2.0M). This funding has provided the platform for our biomedical research,
 development of new MRI techniques, functional imaging of the brain, and significant impact as
 described in ICSs QuantMRI and EMReg. Research income linked to: collaborations and


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 networks is described in Sec. 4.1; and impact in Sec. 1.2.

 Our strategy of aligning our EPSRC-related activities with EPSRC Physics grand challenges,
 themes and national initiatives has been successful, while our strategic aim of a diversification of
 research income streams has resulted in a 40% increase in the value of non-UKRI awards since
 REF2014.

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
 The School’s infrastructure and facilities for research and impact (IES4.2) have been enhanced
 by an investment of £23.1M in equipment and £2.8M in refurbishment over the census period.

 Our infrastructure is clustered thematically in three buildings in close proximity:

 SPMIG is based in a dedicated 1500m2 building, which accommodates the UK’s first 7T human
 MRI scanner. The group led a successful £7.7M bid for new medical imaging equipment
 (including a multi-transmit upgrade on the 7T MRI scanner, new 3T MRI scanner, 0.5T upright
 MRI scanner, SpinLab dynamic nuclear polarisation system for human studies, real-time MEG
 upgrade, functional near infra-red spectroscopy system and auditory brain stem
 electroencephalogram system) from the UK’s Clinical Research Infrastructure initiative (2014).
 This was enhanced by University funding (£1.3M) for laboratory refurbishment and improved
 facilities for participants in imaging studies. These awards underpinned the establishment of the
 Sir Peter Mansfield Imaging Centre, a two-site centre which brings together the human imaging
 facilities in Physics and Medicine. SPMIG also operate the UK’s first Dynamic Nuclear
 Polarisation Magic Angle Spinning Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) Facility, which became
 operational in 2015. This national facility, operated jointly with the Schools of Chemistry and Life
 Sciences, and funded through the EPSRC Strategic Equipment Initiative (£2.7M; £1.2M to
 Physics), has been accessed by more than 20 research groups from 15 different institutions.

 Astro and PartCos are co-located in the 650m2 Centre for Astronomy and Particle Theory
 (CAPT), with 40m2 of new office space created since 2014 to accommodate expansion of these
 groups. CMTh, ColdAtoms and ECMN are housed in the 6000m2 Physics Building, which
 includes five state-of-the-art laboratories for ColdAtoms, with close temperature control and
 vibration-damped optical benches, plus separate control rooms allowing fully-automated
 computer control of four experiments (total 200m2). Following the arrival of Verlot, this facility has
 been extended by 65m2 for the investigation of nanotube-based nanomechanical resonators.

 Investment in capital infrastructure associated with the QT Hub totals £3.6M and includes: a
 £2.1M 90m2 Rapid Prototyping clean room and cold atom laboratory, which integrates the
 fabrication and in situ testing of quantum sensors; £1M equipment for existing cold atoms
 laboratories; £0.5M for a state-of-the-art magnetically-shielded room and MEG brain imaging
 system.

 The School is well-equipped with cryostats, magnets, ultra-fast lasers, spectrometers
 (microwave, optical and Raman), scanning probe microscopes and a state-of-the-art X-ray
 diffractometer. Our infrastructure includes: three low-temperature UHV Atomic Force
 Microscope/Scanning Tunneling Microscopes (AFM/STMs) and a variable-temperature UHV
 AFM/STM; ultra-low temperature NMR facilities; a large-bore cryogen-free 19T magnet for
 magnetoscience; a combined Raman spectrometer and AFM with associated cell biology
 facilities; confocal microscopes for imaging biological materials, nanoparticles and exfoliated
 layered compounds; a cryostat with vector magnetic field capability and a vibrating sample
 SQUID magnetometer used in spintronics research. A new state-of-the-art ultra-low temperature
 (base temperature 0.7K) scanning probe microscope (see Sec. 1.1.2) has recently been
 delivered. The School’s helium liquefier and mechanical, vacuum, and electronics workshops
 (including facilities for UHV construction and fine-machining), are operated by specialist
 technicians in support of the ColdAtoms, ECMN and SPMIG groups.




                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A large cleanroom suite (ISO Class 7 (Class 10000), 300m2), accommodates microfabrication
 facilities and 3 MBE systems, which grow III-V heterostructures, spintronic and nitride
 semiconductors. A dual-chamber MBE system, funded by EPSRC (£1.3M) and installed in 2014,
 is used to grow graphene/boron nitride heterostructures. A new facility EPI2SEM (see Sec.
 1.2.2) funded by EPSRC (£2.9M) and the University (£1M) is currently under construction.
 Microfabrication facilities also include UV lithography, plasma etching, ellipsometry and
 metallisation (sputtering, thermal and electron-beam evaporation, electroplating). A 6-source
 magnetron sputtering system enables sequential growth of metals, oxides and, via transfer to
 the MBE systems, semiconductors. An ISO Class 7 cleanroom area (90m2), leased to Teledyne
 UK to support our ongoing partnership (see ICS Teledyne), extends the range of in-house
 processing techniques and expertise.

 We have access to scanning and transmission electron microscopy, focused ion beams, X-ray
 photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and Raman spectroscopy through the University’s nmRC,
 which has benefitted from £2.4M investment since 2014, including a 50m2 ISO Class 6
 cleanroom housing an EPSRC-funded (£1.5M) electron-beam lithography facility and an imaging
 ellipsometer funded by the University.

 The School makes extensive use (20M CPU-hours since REF2014) of the University’s high
 performance computing (HPC) facilities, which were upgraded in 2018 to 4,720 cores providing
 31TB of RAM. Pearce (Astro) served on the University HPC Management Committee from 2005-
 2019, playing a leading role in developing and procuring the HPC facilities. These local facilities
 are supplemented via the MidPlus Centre of Excellence for Computational Science, Engineering
 and Mathematics.

 In addition to our access to RCUK facilities (Diamond Light Source, DiRAC, European Magnetic
 Field Laboratory, European Southern Observatory, European Synchrotron Radiation Facility,
 Hubble Space Telescope, ISIS neutron and muon source, William Herschel Telescope, total
 £7.4M, REF4c), staff secured access to the following non-RCUK facilities: Synchrotron Soleil
 (129 days, £774k), NASA Spitzer telescope (119 hours), Abel cluster of Norwegian NOTUR
 network (2M CPU hours), PRACE HPC (35M CPU hours, £375k).

 Our industrial collaborations have led to various benefits-in-kind. Bruker BioSpin have donated
 equipment (value £300k) and directly funded research in hyperpolarised liquids for magnetic
 resonance imaging and spectroscopy. Teledyne UK have donated a 100GHz Gunn diode
 microwave source and a Schottky diode and cover all costs for industrial student projects in their
 labs. Molecularspray Ltd have donated an electrospray deposition system (£75k). FBH Berlin
 have provided photonic test chips. GlaxoSmithKline and AstraZeneca sponsor PhD
 studentships, and Adidas have funded a study leave placement and two summer studentships.

 Access to equipment and infrastructure is organised at the group and investigator level and all
 staff are expected to attract external support for their activities. Our resources are also deployed
 in support of industrial collaborations and translating our research into impact-related
 activities, and this has proved crucial for the success in biomedical imaging, semiconductors
 and quantum sensors (see Sec. 1.2; which also details additional mechanisms within the
 University to support impact-related access to infrastructure).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaborations, networks and partnerships
 During the census period, staff collaborated with >150 groups in >30 countries and were
 partners in 40 EU/ERC projects, with a total value of £7.6M to the School.

 We have membership of major international astronomy and cosmology projects, including DES,
 Euclid, JWST, LSST, LISA, Planck, and SDSS. Aragon-Salamanca is the lead scientist of the
 UK Participation Group for SDSS, co-chair of Science Committee and member of the Executive
 Committee of the MaNGA survey, and member of the SDSS-IV Collaboration Council and

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Advisory Council. Almaini leads the Ultra-Deep Survey and serves on the Executive Committee
 of the CANDELS consortium. Dye is a Herschel-ATLAS collaboration Executive Committee
 Member and Chair of the gravitational lensing working group and was project scientist of the
 UKIRT Hemisphere Survey. Pearce and Gray sit on the steering committee for the Three
 Hundred Collaboration. Merrifield is the UK leader of the Planetary Nebula Spectrograph project.
 Bolton leads the Sherwood simulation collaboration that has developed a set of large-scale,
 high-resolution hydrodynamical simulations of the intergalactic medium.

 We are involved in multiple international collaborations focused on quantum sensing, including
 several EU consortia: Entangled Rydberg matter for quantum sensing and simulations (Li, €0.3M
 to School); Error-proof Bell-state analyser (Lesanovsky, Hackermuller, €0.5M to School);
 MatterWave (Fernholz, Lesanovsky, €0.7M to School); Quantum integrated light matter interface
 (Hackermuller, Fernholz, Lesanovsky, €0.5M to School). Fernholz is a member of the US
 DARPA-funded programme on Atomic-Photonic Integration and Verlot recently initiated the
 British Optomechanics Research Network.

 Patanè is the academic lead for the UK Membership of the European Magnetic Field Laboratory
 (EMFL); a national facility of the EPSRC (2015-2022, £4.2M) awarded ESFRI Landmark status
 in 2016. Nottingham, with the EMFL and other collaborators, is a partner of the EU Horizon 2020
 project ISABEL (2020-24, €4.9M) aiming to expand the EMFL’s industrial and user community.
 Patanè also leads the Nottingham node of the EU Graphene Flagship (€0.5M School share), a
 consortium of >150 academic and industrial research groups in 23 EU countries. Novikov,
 Campion and Henini have provided material grown by MBE to >80 academic and industrial
 groups in Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, and North and South America. O’Shea is the academic
 lead for the near-ambient pressure XPS instrument (£1M, funded by IUK) within the UK Energy
 Research Accelerator network, a Nottingham-based facility for the study of batteries, fuel cells,
 photovoltaics, and water-splitting solar cells under realistic operating conditions. Edmonds,
 Rushforth, Campion, Wadley and Jungwirth have an ongoing collaboration with the Czech
 Academy of Sciences on antiferromagnetic spintronics, which has led to £0.5M (School share) of
 EU funding and 17 publications since 2014. Nottingham has an institutional-level Memorandum
 of Understanding with the University of Tübingen; Lesanovsky and Olmos have joint
 Tübingen/Nottingham appointments.

 SPMIG collaborate extensively with clinicians and biomedical scientists, contributing to the
 Birmingham-Nottingham MRC Arthritis Research UK Centre for Musculoskeletal Ageing
 Research, Nottingham's Versus Arthritis Pain Centre and the NIHR-funded Nottingham BRC
 (£23.6M award on which Gowland, Francis, Morris and Bowtell are named as key researchers).
 Imaging is a cross-cutting theme in the BRC, as well as being a key element of four of the other
 BRC themes (Hearing, Gastrointestinal and liver diseases, Respiratory disease, Musculoskeletal
 disease). Morris and Brookes were Co-Is on a £3.5M MRC Grant with Manchester and Cardiff
 and a £0.8M MRC Partnership Grant for building capacity in clinical MEG research across the 8
 UK MEG centres. Gowland and Bowtell were Co-Is on a $3.2M US National Institutes of Health
 (NIH) grant to investigate the structure and function of the placenta. Francis is PI on the £0.8M
 MRC Partnership Grant, which supports the UK Renal Imaging Network across 13 UK institutes.
 Brookes and Bowtell hold a £1.4M Wellcome Collaborative Award in Science with UCL for OPM-
 MEG development, and are Co-Is on a $4.2M NIH grant on next generation
 magnetoencephalography for human social neuroscience, with Virginia Tech. Bowtell leads the
 UK7T Network, which brings together the UK's seven sites with 7T MRI scanners supported by a
 £1.1M MRC Partnership Grant (Co-Is Francis, Glover, Gowland, Morris). Bowtell and Francis
 have been sub-group leads for the EU Joint Programme-Neurodegenerative Disease-funded
 ultra-high-field imaging network for neurodegenerative diseases. Gowland is Nottingham lead for
 the IMAGEN consortium, the largest comprehensive longitudinal study of brain imaging and
 genetics in adolescents worldwide.

 Gowland coordinated the High-field Magnetic Resonance EU ITN (€3.6M, €0.8M to School).
 Fernholz coordinated the Quantum Sensor Technologies and Applications ITN (€4.2M, €0.8M to
 School) and is Training School Coordinator of the European COST network AtomQT. Moriarty

                                                                                          Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 coordinated the ACRITAS ITN, which involved interactions between Physics, Chemistry and
 Biosystems (€3.9M, €0.9M to School).

 4.2 Contributions to society
 Research user representation on the School’s Strategic Advisory Board provides broad
 industrial input to inform and refresh our research and impact strategies. New collaborations
 since 2014 span a wide range of fields including: condensed matter physics (Asahi Kasei
 Coporation, Hitachi, Photek, Schlumberger); imaging (AstraZeneca, Brain Products GmbH, B.
 Braun, Fresenius Medical Care, GE Healthcare, GlaxoSmithKline, Magnetic Shields Limited,
 Motilent, Nestle, Perspectum, Philips, Quotient, QuSpin, RiverD, Sanofi, 3M, Unilever, Vertex,
 Zespri); numerical modelling (Rolls-Royce); quantum technologies (Added Scientific Ltd, Austria
 Micro Systems, Unitive Design and Analysis) and also Adidas, Durham & Cleveland Police, and
 Johnson-Matthey.

 SPMIG are regularly involved in Patient and Public Involvement activities ensuring that
 stakeholders are directly involved in the design of research projects. Mao co-organised a
 workshop for Nottingham city council on urban planning. Burrage, Conselice and Moriarty have
 taken part in the Royal Society’s MP pairing scheme.

 We organise and participate in a wide range of public engagement activities such as
 community events (e.g. Science in the Park, Festival of Science and Curiosity), lectures in
 schools and colleges, public talks (e.g. Pint of Science, Café Scientifique, astronomical
 societies), popular science articles, A-level Masterclasses and Summer Schools. A highlight is
 our interactive Spring into Science event, which is attended annually by >350 year 8 students
 from inner city Nottingham schools with a large BAME cohort. We also run a work experience
 scheme, aimed at students from underrepresented groups. Of the students who attended
 Nottingham Potential or Sutton Trust Summer Schools, 26 subsequently enrolled on Nottingham
 Physics degrees.

 We have initiated several major novel outreach projects. In the Sixty Symbols series of YouTube
 videos, a range of topics, including original fundamental, applied and interdisciplinary research,
 are presented by our staff (ICS Sixty Symbols). The channel has >350 uploaded videos, >800k
 subscribers and >88M video views. This innovative collaboration won the IOP’s 2016 Kelvin
 Medal, the Digital Media award at the University’s 2016 Knowledge Exchange and Impact
 Awards and was a finalist for the 2018 Times Higher Education Outreach award.

 Our activity on MEG was exhibited as ‘Quantum Sensing the Brain’ at the 2018 Royal Society
 Summer Exhibition (~14k attendees), the New Scientist Live exhibition, and the 2018 National
 Quantum Technologies Showcase. Our industrial partners (QuSpin) have also used this exhibit
 at a technical exhibition. Former PhD student, now postdoc, Boto (SPMIG) won the 2019 UoN
 Vice Chancellor’s Medal for this exhibit. SPMIG were involved with the Dementia Choir (featured
 on The One Show in 2018). Bamford (Astro) is the founding Science Director of the Zooniverse,
 an international project which engages millions of members of the public in the scientific process
 itself and was awarded the 2019 RAS Group Achievement Award. We also run Inflativerse, an
 inflatable planetarium, which we have exhibited at schools and community events across the
 East Midlands.

 4.3 Indicators of wider influence
 In this section, highlights are chosen to span all groups and to reflect all career stages.

 Awards & Prizes: (in addition to fellowships, listed in Sec. 2.1.2) CBE (Morris, 2016), IOP
 Maxwell Medal and Prize (Lesanovsky, 2014; Burrage, 2015), IOP Kelvin Prize (Merrifield &
 Moriarty, 2016), IOP James Joule Medal and Prize (Bowtell, 2020), IOP Nevill Mott Medal and
 Prize (Eaves, 2020), IOP Peter Mansfield Medal and Prize (Gowland, 2020), Biomag Mid-career
 Award (Brookes, 2018), RS Wolfson Merit Award (Lesanovsky, 2017), Gruber Cosmology Prize
 (Moss as member of Planck collaboration, 2018), Buchalter Cosmology Prize 2nd (Padilla, 2015).


                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Visiting positions: Fellow at All Souls College, Oxford (Garrahan), honorary professorship
 Institute of Semiconductors, Chinese Academy of Sciences (Beijing) and Chinese Academy of
 Sciences President’s International Fellowship (Patanè).

 Journal editorships: served on 33 Editorial Boards including Astrophysical Journal (Conselice,
 lead editor for Galaxies and Cosmology), Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
 (Garrahan), Physics in Medicine and Biology (Gowland, deputy editor), Journal of Cosmology
 and Astroparticle Physics (Green), European Physical Journal Quantum Technology special
 issue on Quantum Magnetometers (Jensen).

 Grants committees: participated in 35 grant committees for BBSRC, EPSRC, STFC,
 Leverhulme Trust, RS, ERC and funding bodies in Europe and North America, including ERC
 Advanced Grant Panel (Campion), RS Wolfson Merit Award Scheme (Eaves), UKRI Future
 Leaders Fellowship Panel (Fromhold), Wellcome Biomedical Resource and Multi-User
 Equipment Committee (Gowland), STFC Astronomy Grants Panel (Gray), STFC Particle Physics
 Grants Panel (Green).

 Membership of Research Council committees: >50, including Chair of STFC DIRAC
 Resource Allocation Committee (Bolton), Non-core Member STFC Science Board (Copeland),
 Chair of European Extremely Large Telescope Steering Committee (Merrifield).

 National and international advisory roles: highlights include IPPP Steering Committee
 (Copeland), STFC Astronomy Evaluations Panel (Hatch), Member of REF2014 Sub-Panel 9
 (Eaves), International Member of Committee for Canadian Science Prizes (Morris), Member of
 REF2014 Sub-Panel 1 and of REF2021 Main Panel A, with responsibility for Interdisciplinary
 Research (Morris), Peer Review Committee 2-SOLEIL Synchrotron (O’Shea), Council Member
 of European Magnetic Field Laboratory (Patanè), Vice Chair Commission 8-International Union
 of Pure and Applied Physics (Patanè). Numerous international telescope time allocation
 committees, including ESO IPC (Conselice), ING (Dye).

 Leadership in professional bodies: Chairs of IOP Quantum optics, Quantum information and
 Quantum control (QQQ) group (Fromhold), Conference Committee (Moriarty), BSRG Magnetic
 Resonance Group (Owers-Bradley). President of the European Society of Magnetic Resonance
 in Medicine and Biology (Bowtell), Member of IOP Science Board (Moriarty), Chair of UK
 Cosmology (Padilla).

 Invited talks: >700 at international conferences and >150 at national conferences. Highlights
 include: Physics Beyond Colliders, CERN (Burrage, 2016), Mansfield Lecture 25th annual
 meeting of the International Society of Magnetic Resonance in Medicine, Hawaii, (Gowland,
 2017), opening review talk at Evolving Galaxies in Evolving Environments (Gray, 2014),
 23rd International Conference on High Magnetic Fields in Semiconductor Physics, Toulouse,
 France (Makarovskiy, 2018), 16th European Conference on the Spectroscopy of Biological
 Molecules (Notingher, 2015), keynote talk at APS meeting Boston (Wadley, 2019).

 Conference organisation: organised >80 conferences. Highlights include: Probing the Dark
 Sector and General Relativity At All Scales 2017 CERN (Burrage), Photon2020, main
 international optics conference of the IOP (Fernholz & Notingher), chair Gordon Conference on
 In Vivo MR 2014 (Gowland), chair Phonons 2015: 15th International Conference on Phonon
 Scattering in Condensed Matter (Kent), chair 19th International Conference on Non-contact
 Atomic Force Microscopy 2016 (Moriarty), RS meeting on X-ray Astronomy and Fundamental
 Physics (Russell).

 Refereeing: >150 journals, and >60 funding bodies in >25 different countries.

 External PGR training: lectures at 15 schools, including tutorials on deep learning at National
 Meeting of Data-Intensive Science CDTs in Edinburgh (Bamford).


                                                                                           Page 19
