Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of Portsmouth (UoP)


 Unit of Assessment: B7 – Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences


1       Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1     Unit context and structure

Staff in this submission are drawn from the Schools of Biological Sciences (SBS; 10.9 FTE) and
Environment, Geography and Geosciences (SEGG; 22.9 FTE). Our research spans fundamental
discovery science to applied research that addresses problems of global societal relevance.
During the census period, we have strengthened and broadened our staff base and grown our
submission from 25.7 to 33.8 FTE, aligned with the University’s ambitions for environmental
sustainability and support for interdisciplinary working (REF5a, paragraph (p.) 9). We have also
made significant investments in facilities, instrumentation and organisational infrastructure to
support critical mass around six research groups (Group Leads, appointed in REF period):

     Crustal Evolution (CEG: Darling, Fowler, Mottram, Parrish, Strachan, Storey) has an
      international reputation for discovery science, focussed on the initiation of plate tectonics,
      geochronology of shock metamorphism, crustal evolution of the Moon and Mars, ore
      formation and geochronology of ductile and brittle deformation.

     Environmental Processes and Impacts (EPIG: Fones, Hoque, Mills, Watts, Salta, Smith)
      draws together expertise in aquatic geochemistry, hydrogeology, environmental radioactivity
      and environmental microbiology to address issues related to the impacts of climate change,
      contamination and pollution of the environment.

     Palaeontology (PG: Cotton, Gale, Loydell, Martill, Minter) uses fossil and sedimentological
      records to investigate past climates and environment and has built a reputation for research
      on vertebrate and invertebrate palaeontology, alongside micropalaeontology and ichnology.
      As well as having a high profile for science communication, the PG’s stratigraphic expertise
      supports the hydrocarbon industry to improve source rock characterisation.

     Marine Sciences (MSG: Cragg, Ford, Hale, Marley, Preston, Ragazzola, Reynolds,
      Shipway, Willis (former staff)) focuses on marine biology and ecology, marine
      biogeochemistry, aquatic toxicology, climate change, marine protected areas, habitat
      restoration, and human impacts on the marine environment.

     Natural Hazards (NHG: Benson, Gibson, Koor, Rust, Solana, Teeuw, Whitworth) focuses
      on volcano-seismology and associated hazards and risks, neotectonics, landslides, disaster
      risk reduction and resilience, and has a particular strength in the use of low-cost
      geoinformatics in responding to, and preparing for, hazardous events.

     Ecology and Evolution (EEG: Armbruster, Barrales, Bourgeois, Fruciano, Grinsted, Tallis).
      Fundamental research in EEG underpins practical measures to understand biodiversity and


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

      ecosystem function, for example, the effect of climate change on terrestrial pollination
      stability, social evolution, community ecology, and host-parasite and plant-pollinator
      interactions.

1.2     Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact

Throughout the REF period, we have evaluated and updated our strategic aims, notably in
School Vision Statements in 2017 and 2019. Achievement of these aims is summarised below:

1.2.1     Broadening our research strengths and developing new, related areas with
          societal relevance

We have strategically recruited new staff to enhance and complement our research strengths.
For instance, Mottram and Parrish extend the geochronology capability of the CEG to include
dating brittle deformation, Cotton extends PG research to micropalaeontology and the
appointment of Bourgeois, Fruciano and Grinsted increases the breadth of population and
behavioural ecology research in the EEG. In EPIG, Salta enhances our environmental
microbiology research, particularly in biofilms, whilst Hoque adds hydrogeology expertise to our
water quality and monitoring research. Our Marine Sciences Group (MSG) has seen the most
significant expansion, reflecting its contribution to institutional priorities of ocean governance and
plastic pollution (REF5a, 1.0). Recruitment of five staff (Marley, Preston, Raggazola, Reynolds
and Shipway) enhances our strengths in marine ecology and evolution, microalgal taxonomy
and marine biogeochemistry, enabling us to study interactions between human activity and the
marine environment at the molecular, ecosystem and community levels.

We have also supported extant staff and invested in specialist instrumentation to establish our
Natural Hazards Group (NHG). Their research focusses on areas with potential transformative
impacts, such as disaster risk reduction, fugitive dust, smart ground investigation and geo-
conservation, aligned with University ‘Security and Risk’, ‘Sustainability and the Environment’
and ‘Future Technologies’ Thematic Areas, and with the priorities of external funders.

In 2017, Faculty QR funding was invested in bioinformatics expertise and a bioinformatics-
specific, high-performance computing cluster that has enhanced our capabilities in
environmental genomics, relevant to our ecotoxicology, biofilms, evolutionary ecology and
enzyme bioprospecting research programmes.

This growth across the Unit has contributed to our research vitality. Over the last 5 years, staff
across the Unit have published 494 papers: of these, over 40% are in ‘top 10% journals’
(CiteScore) and 24% are classed as 'highly cited' (i.e. citation count in the top 10% for the
subject area). The merging of the Department of Geography with the School of Earth and
Environmental Sciences into SEGG in 2019 provides opportunities for further growth of research
at the interface of society and the environment.

1.2.2     Investing in interdisciplinary research (IDR) to address global societal challenges

The Unit has an established record of accomplishment in interdisciplinary working. In the last
assessment period, we created and led the UoP Environment Network that provided the
foundation for the current ‘Sustainability and the Environment’ University Theme, to which we

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

are key contributors. A strong element of the Unit’s IDR has developed from within the MSG,
focussed around enzymatic breakdown of complex natural and synthetic polymers, such as
wood and plastic. Cragg, working with molecular and structural biologists in UoA3, previously
characterised a unique crustacean cellulase impacting on biofuel production (Proc Natl Acad
Sci. 2013; 110(25): 10189-10194). In this assessment period, supported by BBSRC funding and
with the Ocean Genome Legacy Centre and US National Renewable Energy Laboratory
(NREL), this team applied structure-guided protein engineering approaches to lignin-degrading
enzymes whose products are valuable building blocks for the chemical industry. Recognising the
research excellence in this group and the potential impact of enzyme innovation to address
global environmental challenges, the University committed £6M to establish the Centre for
Enzyme Innovation (CEI) that was further enhanced by a £5.8M Expanding Excellence in
England award in 2019 (REF5a, p.6).

The CEI draws together our research excellence in marine zoology (Cragg, Shipway) and
environmental microbiology (Watts), connecting it with broader environment research areas to
drive growth in enzyme innovation, spanning a pipeline from discovery to application. Cragg,
Shipway and Watts lead the bioprospecting programmes and Senior Research Fellows, Senior
Research Associates, Specialist Technicians and postgraduate research students (PGRS) have
been recruited to work across disciplinary interfaces. The CEI, with an immediate focus on
plastic-degrading enzymes, recognition for research excellence and established national and
international partnerships, is at the forefront of research to deliver solutions to the global plastic
challenge. This IDR ethos and infrastructure has already supported Cragg to lead an
international consortium (with Ford, Salta and Watts and Project Partners at the Nanyang
Technological University and National University of Singapore) developing innovative microbial
solutions to marine plastic pollution in South East Asia (NERC, £711k).

1.2.3   Enhancing our organisational infrastructure to facilitate engagement with users of
        research

In 2015, the University introduced a workload allocation model (REF5a, p.2) that explicitly
recognises time for networking, partnership development, advocacy and consultancy. In 2016,
constituent Schools appointed designated (0.3 FTE) Associate Heads for Research and for
Innovation, the latter to support non-academic collaboration and knowledge exchange. Events,
training and support provided by Collaboration Managers in Faculty and central Research and
Innovation Services (RIS) (REF5a, p.15) have developed researchers’ skills and capacity to
respond to collaborative opportunities with research users.

Within the Unit, we created two externally-facing ‘research and consultancy entities’, clustered
around distinct areas of expertise and specialist instrumentation, to act as vehicles for external
engagement and impact:

   the UoP Geological and Environmental Laboratories (UPGEL) that combine our capabilities
    and facilities in geochemistry and geochronology, soil and water environmental chemistry,
    rock mechanics, engineering geology, geotechnical engineering and passive sampling of the
    environment; and




                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     our marine research station, the Institute of Marine Sciences (IMS), which supports research
      on the impact of climate change and environmental contaminants, such as pharmaceuticals,
      radioactivity and microplastics, on aquatic ecosystems, as well as the development of new
      products with improved environmental profiles.

In 2016, funding from the Solent LEP (£390k), matched by University funding, enabled us to
recruit four Scientific Officers (SO), aligned with the IMS and UPGEL, to develop research-based
projects with external partners and support knowledge exchange through research and training
activities. Since then, and through UPGEL and the IMS, the Unit has carried out contract
research and commercial testing for over 63 clients including national and international
companies in the water, oil and gas, waste management, renewables, wood technology,
construction and ground engineering sectors; environmental agencies and consultants; and
research institutes. Our knowledge exchange income has increased from £63k in AY2013/14 to
£290k in AY2019/20, and SO support has directly facilitated adoption of innovative tools,
protocols and products underpinned by our research, as described in two of our Impact Case
Studies, UoP07Chemcatcher and UoP07Wood.

1.2.4    Supporting staff to become research active

Our new Natural Hazards Group (NHG) is composed of staff who previously had a teaching or
consultancy focus. In 2011, we created the Centre for Applied Geosciences (CAG) to establish
cross-disciplinary critical mass and strengthen research culture to support these staff and others
with a similar background. CAG developed a programme of mentoring, external speakers,
theme/team meetings and created a strong ethos of collaboration on publications, grant
applications and external profile. As a result of these initiatives, the quality of publications has
improved, research income has grown from £107k in 2013/14 to £880k in 2019/20, and NHG
staff are supervising PGRS, many of them externally funded. The NHG’s research has
particularly strong links with industry and makes a significant contribution to the South Coast
Centre of Excellence in Satellite Applications (REF5a, p.17) in the practical deployment of data
from Space.

1.3     Enabling and facilitating impact

We have employed a variety of mechanisms to support impact across the research lifecycle. As
well as enhancing our infrastructure to support external engagement (1.2.3), researchers are
supported through mentoring and training to develop “pathways to impact” for every project.
Schools hold impact away-days and “Dragon’s Den” style sessions with stakeholders, and staff
attend workshops on networking, Intellectual Property (IP) and commercialisation, and on
strategies to engage wider audiences, as part of the RIS Development Programme (RISDP,
REF5a, p.33). Unit funding is also invested in “impact acceleration” awards for project costs,
travel, attendance at meetings, stakeholder and dissemination events. These approaches
supported the development of our Impact Case Studies, as well as wider impact across the Unit
(4.2). For example, Smith’s research in the Chernobyl Exclusion Zone (CEZ) builds on his
decades-long collaborations with Ukrainian and Belarussian researchers and with the State
Agency of Ukraine for Exclusion Zone Management (SAUEZM) and underpins a new CEZ water
management strategy. The Unit funded analysis of crop and water samples to support vodka
production from contaminated land (the ATOMIK grain spirit project) and stakeholder

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

consultation events that led to the signing of an agreement for the transfer of abandoned land for
re-settlement (UoP07Chernobyl). Between 2014 and 2018, Fones and Mills worked with water
supply companies and environment agencies across the UK to develop and calibrate new
variants of the Chemcatcher®, a device developed within the Unit for measuring mobile
pollutants in water. Unit funding supported an SO to deliver training courses, deploy
Chemcatcher® in the field and analyse data, and Fones and Mills to visit field sites, meet end
users and advise on the use of Chemcatcher® in river catchment management strategies
(UoP07Chemcatcher). Similarly, an SO at the IMS tested innovative wood protection treatments
for agencies and companies across Europe. This provided confidence in the Portsmouth
protocols for assessing wood resistance to marine borer attack, and facilitated refinement of the
protocols for incorporation into commercial product development. Supported by Unit funding,
Cragg also made field visits and attended key meetings to promote the incorporation of the
Portsmouth protocol into European Standards for testing of wood and wood treatments for
marine construction (UoP07Wood).

1.4   Approach to supporting interdisciplinary research (IDR)

Interdisciplinarity is embedded in our research in a number of ways. Research Group Leads
encourage colleagues to develop and engage in collaborative research projects with other
Portsmouth academics, who are invited to ‘open laboratory days’ and our seminar series. We
have invested in facilities and instrumentation that support IDR (3.3) and provide seedcorn
funding (up to £25K per project) for promising interdisciplinary collaborations. Examples include:
Gibson and Watts working with criminologists and DSTL to establish a Taphonomy Facility;
Hoque with computer scientists and data security experts to develop social networking
technology to screen for arsenic in groundwater wells in Bangladesh; Gibson using
hyperspectral sensing to monitor climate change with glaciologists; Watts with bioinformaticians
and geoconservationists on innovative biofilms for heritage conservation; and Watts, Hale and
Preston with civil engineers investigating microplastics in road run-off as vectors for virus
transfer. These projects contribute to University Thematic Areas, ‘Sustainability and the
Environment’, ‘Future Technologies’ and ‘Health and Wellbeing’, and we will continue to pump-
prime a diverse IDR portfolio moving forward.

Researchers in our Unit also contribute to IDR centres and projects, linked to international
networks. For example, the Centre for Blue Governance (CBG, REF5a, p.7) (Ford, Deputy
Director) connects expertise across UoP in aquatic resources, management of coastal
environment processes, and human and marine ecology. Collaborations developed through the
CBG underpin MaCoBioS, an EU-funded project (Cragg, CoI) investigating the impacts of
climate change on critical marine coastal ecosystems, and research on the governance of deltas
in Bangladesh involving Ford, Hoque (PI) and Preston. Funded by the ‘Sustainability and the
Environment’ Theme, Ford and Marley are working on a project to tackle the problem of urban
plastic pollution in Kenya and Bangladesh with UoP researchers from UoAs 14, 17, 20 and 33.

1.5   Research strategy to 2026

We have identified five objectives to build our global reach and reputation and deliver
environmental and societal impact, aligned with the University Strategy 2020-25 (REF5a2.0).
These objectives capitalise on our growth in research excellence and interdisciplinary working,

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

and investment in infrastructure. All are underpinned by our commitment to staff development,
support for PGRS and equality, diversity and inclusivity.

1.5.1   Continue to grow the vitality of our research, particularly where we have
        established a leading position and our research positively influences society.

Examples include: the development and application of novel geochronological and geochemical
tools using advanced electron imaging and mass spectrometry; the fate and behaviour of
plastics in the environment; cognate particulate pollution as the next emerging global
environmental health crisis; and natural hazard risk management and reduction.

1.5.2   Continue to embed IDR within our Unit by building on the opportunities offered by
        the merged SEGG and through the CEI, CBG and University Thematic Areas.

Our new research on microplastics, as environmental pollutants and as potential vectors for
disease transfer, offers extensive opportunities for IDR and inter-sector collaboration. We will
access cross-Unit expertise to extend our engagement with science-led policy development in
our research on environmental and climate change, water quality, habitat
restoration/conservation, sustainable development, and management of natural resources and
waste materials.

1.5.3   Support mid-career and senior staff to grow critical mass within research groups
        through recruitment of PGRS and postdoctoral researchers, supported by external
        funding.

We will expand our mentoring provision, support staff to maximise publication and funding
success via internal peer review and promote attendance on new University ‘Reader to
Professor’ Leadership programmes. We will prioritise support for female leadership
programmes, moving towards an improved gender-balance at all grades.

1.5.4   Maintain and enhance our infrastructure and instrumentation as the basis for
        developing new partnerships, embedding IDR and delivering impact.

We will develop our Electron Microscopy and Microanalysis Unit (3.3) as an international
resource and to establish UK leadership in Moon and Mars sample return and analysis. We will
expand our analytical capabilities further to enable correlative research programmes on complex
geo-environmental challenges and will continue to use our environmental chemistry, rock
mechanics, hyperspectral and marine science facilities as the basis for engagement with end
users.

1.5.5   Maximise the benefits of our research, aiming for all research groups to develop
        ‘case studies’ of impact.

We will enhance our portfolio of engagement with key industries and stakeholders beyond HE
through membership of the South Coast Satellite Applications Catapult, National Biofilms
Innovation Centre and through our contributions to the CEI and CBG. We will support staff to
identify potential links with beneficiaries through research mentoring and networking, and we will



                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

financially support high quality engagement opportunities, such as secondments, exchanges and
events.

1.6   Open research, ethics and integrity

We are committed to an open research environment: 94% of our outputs have been published
under open-access licences since 01/04/2016 and 100% of our in-scope REF2 outputs meet
Research England’s Open Access requirements. Datasets are deposited on University and
external open-source repositories (e.g. National Geoscience Data Centre; EO Data Repository;
Environmental Information Data Centre; Open Science Framework). Since 2018, 88% of the
Unit's outputs have been assessed as compliant with the University’s Research Data
Management policy (REF5a, p.24). We share specialist data with relevant communities; for
example, in GenBank, where we have deposited the transcriptomes of amphipods for use in
ecotoxicology (Ford) and the mitochondrial genome of Limnoria as part of the international
Gribble Genome project (Cragg). The Unit also facilitates primary research that supports open
data; Teeuw and Gibson evaluated the use of open free- or low-cost geoinformatic systems
(GIS) for resource and disaster management applications and were the first to highlight the
problem of digital data poverty in sustainable development (Int J Appl Earth Obs Geoinf. 2016;
50: 1-9). Data from Teeuw’s UK Space Agency-funded ‘CommonSensing’ project is shared via
Open Data Cube.

The University Strategy commits us to the highest standards of academic, professional and
research integrity. At School level, this is supported through quality assurance processes that
ensure sound research design, participant safety and adherence to ethical codes, openness and
transparency. Members of the Unit (Benson, Minter) sit on the Faculty Ethics Committee that
oversees a mandatory review process in line with the University’s commitments under the
Concordat to Support Research Integrity, the UKRIO Code of Practice for Research, and DORA
(REF5a, p.22); consideration includes ethics, integrity and due diligence in both environmental
and human-participatory research.


2     People

Category A staff (FTE) in this submission comprise 8.3 Professors, 8.7 Readers / Principal
Lecturers, 14.6 Senior Lecturers/Senior Research Fellows and 2.2 Lecturers/Research Fellows.
By FTE, 33% are early career researchers (ECRs).

2.1   Staffing strategy and staff development

Our strategy is to strengthen areas of existing and potential international research excellence by
developing the research profile of extant staff and by recruiting new staff with strategically
relevant research expertise (1.2.1). Of our new appointments, ten staff (6F:4M) are ECRs,
endorsing our commitments to staff development and to addressing historic gender imbalances
within the Unit.

The University has held an HR Excellence in Research Award since 2013 and is a signatory to
the Researcher Development Concordat (REF5a, p.41). Our staff development strategy aims to
grow the capability and profile of our researchers through resourcing their time and providing a

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

portfolio of support at all career stages. Since REF2014, we have introduced a workload model,
streamlining administration and teaching activities to enhance staff efficiency and giving
research goals greater priority. Research-active staff (those regularly publishing research
articles) are allocated a minimum of 0.2 FTE for research, with additional time for grant-writing,
externally-funded research and impact activities. Research Group Leads contribute to annual
Performance and Development Reviews (PDR) that link individual and Unit-wide research
objectives and identify development needs. New staff are integrated into the Unit’s research
environment through Research Group membership, an enhanced research workload allocation
(0.2 FTE / Year1) and eligibility for research ‘start-up funds’. Early- and mid-career staff have a
senior mentor from within the Unit and workload hours are allocated to both mentor and mentee.

Early-career academic researchers (ECRs) continue to receive an extended research workload
allocation (0.1 FTE / Year 2), have access to ring-fenced ECR funding and are preferentially
considered for internally-funded PhD studentships as first supervisor, with additional supervisors
to provide mentorship. Of 19 Unit-funded studentships in the census period, 11 were awarded to
ECRs appointed since AY2012/13. Supported thus, Hoque generated field data on water quality
in Myanmar and Bangladesh for publications and grant applications and Raggazola developed
collaborations in the UK and Europe that have underpinned publications in Nature Climate
Change and PNAS, and projects on the use of artificial coral reefs to mitigate the effects of
climate change (Royal Society funded). In 2018, Marley, Mottram, Preston and Reynolds (4F)
were awarded University ECR Fellowships that provide funding, bespoke training and mentoring
to support research career development. As a result, Marley worked with high profile
stakeholders (Plastic Oceans and GB Row Challenge) on marine acoustic monitoring, Mottram
has secured funding from NERC for research on mineral deposits of the Canadian Cordillera
[REF2/22994790], Preston is collaborating with Blue Marine Foundation, visited international
oyster hatcheries and co-organised a European Native Oyster Restoration Alliance (NORA)
workshop, and Reynolds is collaborating with the National Oceanography Centre, UK, and
Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute, USA.

We have also targeted support to mid-career researchers to enhance their research profiles and
develop their research leadership capabilities. For example, investment in Darling (appointed as
an ECR in 2012) has included a bursaried PhD studentship, project costs, funding to support
exchange visits with collaborators at Imperial College, London and in Ontario, and significant
investment in electron microscopy and microanalytical instrumentation (3.3). This has facilitated
subsequent publications in Nature Astronomy, Nature Communications and Nature Geoscience
and STFC funding to establish UK leadership in radiometric dating of Mars. Teeuw received
mentoring, bid writing support and workload allocation to develop collaborative, international
projects and has secured awards to lead research programmes on illegal gold mining in
Colombia, the impacts of Hurricane Maria in Dominica, and Risk Science in the UK Space
Agency ‘Common Sensing’ project to enhance climate change resilience in Pacific Small Island
Developing States.

Support for established researchers includes external mentoring, underwriting or extending
postdoctoral appointments while grant renewals are pending, and support for international
mobility. Two staff have benefitted from research sabbaticals in this census period. One
supported Strachan to reinvigorate research collaborations at Curtin University, Australia, and St


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Francis Xavier University, Canada, following a decade as Head of School. Data generated
underpinned 5 publications, including a contribution to ‘Geologic Time Scale’ 2020, and funding
for time at the NERC Isotope Geosciences Laboratory. The second enabled Cragg to conduct
mangrove fieldwork and develop collaborations with experts at the Nanyang Technological
University (NTU) and National University of Singapore (NUS). Cragg was subsequently invited to
contribute to the IUCN Mangrove Specialist Group, attend the 2019 MMM5 (global mangrove)
conference in Singapore and currently leads an international consortium (with NTU and NUS) on
marine plastic pollution in South East Asia. A sabbatical to Darling has been postponed due to
Covid-19; this will consolidate collaborations in the USA and Canada and his emerging
leadership in planetary and deep-crustal resources.

All staff have equal access to funding for staff development (study leave, sabbaticals,
conference attendance) and a variety of internal funding opportunities (up to £25K per award).
Workshops on funding, publishing, open research and dissemination are offered via the RISDP;
this is supplemented by Research Group activities that include discussion groups, paper writing
workshops, grant “hothouses”, and a research seminar series that includes external speakers
and provides staff and PGRS with opportunities for external collaboration and networking.

Postdoctoral research staff (7.1 FTE, 58%F) are members of Research Groups, mentored by
permanent Unit members, and are supported to apply for internal and external funding and to
present their research at national and international conferences. Research staff are represented
through a Research Staff Forum, have an annual PDR and can access career development
training and coaching via RISDP. During this REF period, two research staff (2F), Preston and
Reynolds, have been appointed to permanent UoP academic positions and others have
progressed to roles in academia (UWE, Bristol), research (CNRS, France) and governmental
laboratories (CEFAS, UK).

The principal mechanism for enabling research and impact activities is workload allocation and
we have a strong record of recognising and rewarding staff for research and impact leadership
through promotion. The University’s Policy on Promotion and Appointment to Reader and
Professor includes a range of research and impact activities and recognises co-authorship of
publications and income generation as Principal or Co-Investigator. Staff are encouraged to
attend promotion workshops and applicants are offered mentoring and peer review support.
Female staff are supported to undertake the Aurora and Springboard programmes: Hale and
Watts have benefitted from these and now act as role models and mentors in the Unit and more
broadly. In this assessment period, six staff (Cragg, Fones, Ford, Martill, Storey, Strachan – 6M)
have been promoted to Professor and five (Darling, Preston, Rust, Solana, Whitworth - 2F:3M)
to Reader. In September 2020, Fowler, Teeuw and Watts (1F:2M) were promoted to Professor
and Gibson and Koor (2M) to Reader.

2.2   Support for, training and supervision of research students

PGRS are an integral part of the Unit and investment in their development is key to achieving
our objectives. The relevance of our research to industry has attracted external sponsorship,
either fully- or jointly-funded as CASE (BBSRC, NERC) and KTP studentships, from, for
example, Aker BP, AstraZeneca, Blue Marine Foundation, DustScan, Environment Agency, EPI
Ltd, South West Water and the Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Science and Technology. We

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

have also secured international funding for PhD programmes, including the Brazilian CNPq and
CAPES schemes (n=8), the Royal Thai Government Studentship Programme (n=5) and the
Nigerian Government Petroleum Technology Development Fund (n=5), and have strategically
invested internal QR resources (£700k) in stipends for 19 PhD studentships across all Research
Groups. As a result, PGRS completions (23F:31M) have increased by 20% relative to REF2014;
70 students are currently registered on our doctoral programmes (PhD and Prof Doc), indicating
the sustainability of this trajectory.

PGRS selection is based upon presentations and interviews of shortlisted candidates with the
supervisor(s) and Research Group Lead, supported by a trained interviewer. PGRS supervisory
teams typically consist of three staff, including external supervisors where they bring additional
expertise. Supervisors are expected to have regular informal contact with their students and to
hold monthly meetings for their research group. Progress in year 1 is formally monitored by a
Major Review Report and presentation to a panel that includes two assessors independent of
the supervisory team. Annual reviews with presentations to the same panel are held thereafter.
Each School has a Research Degrees Coordinator responsible for the monitoring and
development of PGRS. There are PGRS representatives on each Schools’ Equality and
Diversity, Research and Innovation and Faculty Research Degrees Committees.

The majority of training is tailored to specific projects but PGRS also attend at least 10 days of
researcher development training each year, in line with Vitae recommendations. The University
Graduate School Development Programme provides professional and generic skills training
[REF5a, p.38] whilst the Unit provides specialist subject training, for example, on the use of
microscopy and spectroscopy techniques, environmental modelling and statistics. Students are
supported financially to attend national courses, such as the NERC Electron Microprobe course.
All PGRS are active members of our Research Groups, through which they participate in
‘Journal Clubs’, discussions on thesis- and grant-writing, and peer support for developing
research projects. As well as presenting in Research Groups, PGRS take part in School seminar
series, an annual School Postgraduate Research Conference, University Festival of Doctoral
Research, and 3-minute thesis presentations. A bursary is available for all PGRS to attend at
least one international conference over the course of their studies.

Our Unit provides a range of additional development activities to improve our PGRS’
employability. External networking is facilitated by supervisors’ extensive collaborations and the
Unit’s engagement with key stakeholders. A PGRS placement scheme has supported students
to spend time at academic and non-academic institutions where they learn techniques and
methods to support their research and develop their networks. Recent destinations include:
Greenwich University; University of Iceland; University of Vigo, Spain; Natural History Museum;
Royal Ontario Museum, Toronto; Key Forensic Services Ltd; Ove Arup and Partners, London;
Aker BP and Applied, Petroleum Technology, Norway. PGRS develop the impact of their
research through working with our collaborators and have benefitted from opportunities with, for
example, the Solent Oyster Restoration Project, the Environment Agency, Southern Inshore
Fisheries Conservation Authority, Southern Water, The Wildlife Trust and the Solent Forum. Our
PGRS contribute to impact activities (4.2) and public engagement (4.4) and all students involved
in teaching are enrolled on the University Graduate Students Professional Development
programme that is aligned to accreditation by the UK HEA.


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Our training and development portfolio prepares our PGRS to go onto a range of successful
careers, including in research (e.g. Universities of Montpellier and Clermont-Ferrand, France;
Southern Illinois, USA; Royal Ontario Museum and University of Quebec, Canada), academia
(UWE, Gottingen), government agencies (Defence Science and Technology Laboratory;
Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, Thai Office of Atoms for Peace), charities
(Blue Marine Foundation) and industry (Dustscan; CDM Smith, Germany; Atkins, UK; Zantiks,
UK).

Our Unit also contributes to national research training as a core partner in the BBSRC South
Coast Biosciences (SoCoBio) DTP and associate partner in the NERC INSPIRE DTP. UoP
delivers a residential Science Communication Summer School for all SoCoBio PGRS and Ford
co-supervises an INSPIRE PGRS with Southampton. Between 2017-2020, Whitworth led the
3DTeLC project, with 13 European partners, that developed a suite of open-source 3D and VR
materials that have enhanced the skills of over 100 geo-environmental PGRS in spatial analysis,
informatics, mathematics, fieldwork, observation and image analysis.

2.3   Equality and Diversity

The University is a signatory to the Race Equality Charter, a Stonewall Diversity Champion,
Disability Confident employer, and holds an Institutional Athena Swan Bronze Award. All staff
undertake mandatory training including Bullying & Harassment, Unconscious Bias, and Equality,
Diversity & Inclusion (EDI). Both constituent Schools have an Equality and Diversity Group and
an EDI lead (0.1 FTE) who oversees the promotion of equality and diversity, from the point of
staff recruitment onwards. SBS holds a Departmental Athena SWAN Bronze Award and the
recently-established SEGG will submit in November 2021. We are committed to foster an
inclusive environment for all; 73% of eligible Category A staff are included in this submission and
the overall profile of our Unit broadly reflects that of academic and research staff in the discipline
(Table 1). 18% of our Unit work part-time and 1% are on fixed-term contracts.

Table 1: Unit Profile and demographics

                                   Proportion of Cat A staff
                                                                        Doctoral degrees
             Indicator
                                                                           awarded
                                   Sector              Unit

         Gender (Female)            36%1               35%                     43%

         Ethnicity (BAME2)           4%1               10%                     15%

        Declared disability          3%1                1%                     12%

            Age (36-55)             50%1               61%                      n/a
      1-Earth, marine, environmental sciences Advance HE, 2020; 2-Reported as Black,
      Asian and Minority Ethnic

We have made significant progress towards a Unit diversity profile representative of sector
norms; of the thirteen staff appointed into academic positions, eight are women. We have
increased the proportion of female staff in our submission from 20% to 35% and staff reported


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

as of ‘BAME’ ethnic origin from 0% to 10%. Nevertheless, the gender profile by career stage
reflects ongoing EDI issues within the Unit, and in STEM subjects more broadly. Women are
well-represented at Lecturer/Senior Lecturer (53%F) levels but there is underrepresentation at
senior grades (30%F Reader/Principal Lecturer; 0%F Professorial). We will address this as a
priority going forward. This will include taking actions to secure Athena Swan Awards (Silver
SBS; Bronze, SEGG) and supporting more of our female staff to apply for sabbaticals,
participate in the HE Aurora Leadership Programme and to access bespoke coaching and
mentoring offered by the University and externally. To support female staff with publication and
grant-writing, we have held off-site, residential workshops that have provided time and space to
make substantial progress on manuscripts and research bids, as well as helping to develop peer
support and networking; we will continue these moving forward.

Research seminars and essential meetings are scheduled within core hours and 11 staff
currently have flexible working patterns to accommodate caring responsibilities. The University
has guidance for staff and managers on maternity, paternity, shared parental and adoption
leave; two members of staff have returned from maternity leave, one to fractional contract
positions that allowed for career progression. Funding is available to support research re-
engagement after periods of extended absence and Ford has hosted a Daphne Jackson Fellow.
We have supported a member of staff with a declared disability to access funding through the
Access to Work Programme for specialist equipment to support their research.

REF submission: All staff involved in Unit REF decision-making attended an ‘Equality and
Diversity in the REF’ workshop (Advance HE, October 2019). Outputs were reviewed and
selected according to the UoP Code of Practice. An EIA has confirmed that REF2 outputs reflect
the profile of submitted staff for gender (28%F), ethnicity (8% BAME), disability (4%), contract
(7% fixed term, 19% part-time) and career stage (32% ECR).


3     Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1   Research funding and strategies for generating income

During this assessment period, our income strategy has focused on supporting a wider group of
staff to submit to a broader range of funders. Staff share their research ideas with mentors and
Research Group members at the earliest opportunity, gaining advice from experienced
colleagues at the point where feedback can be most effective. Grant writing is supported through
workload allowance, funding and bid-writing workshops. Competitive external bid applications
are reviewed within the Unit (small grants) and through the University’s Peer Review College
(larger grants, REF5a, p.56). Our investments in staff development and external engagement
have extended our collaborations and raised the profile of our researchers to support income
generation.

These mechanisms have been highly effective; 68% of submitted staff have contributed to
income generation as PI and, since REF2014, our total research income has grown by 48%
(from £2.73M to £4.04M). We have also secured funding from increasingly diverse sources (54
individual funders) including: UK research councils (e.g. BBSRC, ESRC, NERC and STFC);



                                                                                         Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

trusts and charities, such as the Blue Marine Foundation, Leverhulme; the European
Commission; UK government bodies; and industry in the UK and overseas.

Our UKRI income base has seen the most significant growth (from £1.45M to £2.48M), reflecting
the increased societal relevance of our research. Nine staff (Fones, Ford, Hale, Mottram,
Parrish, Smith, Storey, Teeuw, Watts) have held NERC awards and the breadth of our NERC-
funded projects demonstrates our profile in aquatic geochemistry, macronutrient and carbon
cycling (Fones, Hale and Watts), environmental monitoring and risk assessment (Ford, Smith),
geochronology (Mottram, Storey), geochemical analysis (Parrish) and remote sensing for
disaster preparedness mapping (Teeuw). Cragg has received near-continuous BBSRC funding
for projects investigating enzymatic degradation of lignocellulose for fermentative production of
biofuels and platform chemicals, and was a Co-I on a BBSRC strategic LoLa, as part of the
BBSRC Sustainable Bioenergy Centre (£2.8M, £568k to UoP). We have also been supported
by the STFC (awards to Darling to establish the UoP2 Mars Consortium and to Smith to develop
methods to assess cataract development in fish exposed to radiation) and the ESRC for
participatory research with communities along the Choco River, Colombia (Teeuw (Co-I)).

Our income from government bodies has also grown significantly, from 4% to 11% of our
portfolio. Projects include enhancing the natural capital of the Solent (Environment Agency,
£60k) and using satellite imagery to detect illegal gold mining in Colombia (£3.3M, £60k to UoP)
and to improve the resilience of Small Island Developing States (SIDS) to climate change and
natural disasters (£471k), funded by the UK Space Agency.

Our current grant portfolio includes over 90 projects supported by over 40 funders, indicating the
vitality and sustainability of our funding base. Recent awards to Cragg to tackle marine plastic
pollution and to Ford, as UK lead on the cross-Channel project, REDPOL, to develop methods to
support changes in the environmental regulation of endocrine disrupting chemicals (€2.8M,
£310k to UoP), respond directly to key environmental challenges. We will continue to ensure our
research agendas align with the priorities of a wide range of funders and will further extend our
collaborations with end users to support research translation and impact.

3.2   Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact

Research and impact are supported across the Unit at School level. The School Research and
Innovation Committee (SRIC) identifies research priorities, agrees the strategic distribution of
investment (e.g. in studentships and small grants), considers EDI issues, manages research
integrity and monitors delivery against KPIs and the Research Concordat. Current membership
includes Associate Heads Research and Innovation, Research Group Leads, the Research
Degrees Coordinator and representatives of ECRs and research staff. The SRICs report to the
School Management Groups and Faculty RIC. The REF Unit Coordinator (Storey) is a member
of the Faculty and University REF Steering Committees. Research Groups operate a peer-
support system at the early stages of research design to improve project rigour and quality of
publications and bids. In addition to Unit-specific support, staff in the Faculty and central RIS
team (REF5a, p.56-57) provide support for bid development (including finance and co-ordination
of internal reviews), developing pathways to, and evidencing of impact, research ethics




                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

applications, post-award administration of funded research projects and commercialisation (IP,
patenting and contracts).

3.3     Specialist infrastructure and facilities

Our distinctive research profile is underpinned by outstanding facilities and instrumentation,
acquired through external grants and significant (£2.3M) internal capital investment in
strategically important areas, such as advanced electron microscope imaging, environmental
and geochemical analysis, and enzyme innovation. All staff and PGRS have equal access to
infrastructure and instrumentation, irrespective of seniority, Research Group affiliation or
availability of external income. Research and impact across the Unit is supported by Scientific
Officers (1.2.3) and 6.5 FTE technical staff (46%F), managed by School Technical Managers.
Technical staff are members of Research Groups, have access to funding for conference
attendance and specialist training, contribute to publications, and are supported to achieve
additional qualifications. Two of our technical staff have received bursary funding to support part-
time PhDs.

3.3.1    Facilities

The CEI has benefitted from significant strategic University and external investment. As well as
investment in staff and PGRS, a £1.1M estate refurbishment created new laboratories (including
Category 2) that facilitate interdisciplinary working and embed the CEI in the scientific research
community. The Solent LEP has recently invested £1M in our enzyme innovation work to create
a bio-recycling development facility that will enhance our capability to engage directly with
industry and will support research translation and regional economic growth.

The Institute of Marine Sciences (IMS) is situated at the mouth of Langstone Harbour,
Portsmouth, and provides direct access to the Solent European Marine Site and coastal habitats
across the Solent. The Aquatic Centre houses a 320 m2 controlled environment aquarium and
seawater system, experimental rooms and quarantine facilities. The IMS hosts England’s first
oyster hatchery, established in partnership with the Blue Marine Foundation and underpinning
our involvement in the Solent Oyster Restoration Project. We have invested in a new research
vessel (£110k) and a floating research platform (£47k), moored in the Langstone waters that are
rich in bio-fouling organisms. The platform is used for exposure trials and a range of in situ
research and monitoring. The IMS supports research collaborations and commercial projects
with, for example, Blue Marine Foundation, CEFAS, QinetiQ, the Building Research
Establishment, Thales, Balmoral Offshore Engineering, Kebony AS, and the Research Council
of Norway. Innovative laboratory protocols to assess marine borer activity, developed at the IMS
by Cragg and Shipway, have been used to develop wood protection products with enhanced
efficacy and improved environmental profiles (UoP07Wood).

3.3.2    Specialist instrumentation

During this assessment period, we have invested £630k in enhancing the Unit’s imaging and
analysis capabilities and consolidating these within the Electron Microscopy and Microanalysis
Unit (EMMU), led by Darling. EMMU instrumentation underpins research within the CEG
(REF2/7107496/20471622), across Unit Research Groups and IDR with, for example, structural


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

biologists, materials and biomechanical engineers and heritage conservators in other UoAs. LA-
ICP-MS instrumentation includes a Nu Plasma multiple-collector ICP-MS, Analytik Jena
PlasmaQuant Elite quadrupole ICP-MS and an ASi Resolution Excimer 193nm laser. Scanning
electron microscopy (SEM) capabilities have been enhanced with two Zeiss Evo MA10 SEMs,
one with LaB6 source and Oxford Instruments solid-state EDS and EBSD detectors for
advanced imaging, chemical and crystallographic analysis at the micro- to nano-scale, and the
other with Tungsten source for imaging palaeontological and biological specimens. In 2020, we
invested in a Tescan FEG source SEM to support IDR on enzyme innovation and microplastics
as part of the CEI. The EMMU also provides bespoke services to academia (e.g. University of
Brighton) and industry (e.g. Chemostrat). A new Zeiss Axio Lab optical microscope and an
AHRC-funded Zeiss Smart Zoom 5 digital microscope (£100k, Darling) further enhances our
imaging and analysis capabilities. Reflecting expertise and reputation developed over the
census period, in January 2021, we were awarded NERC capital funding (£955k) to install the
first tandem LA-LIBS femtosecond laser system in a European University. As well as linking
physical and biological processes and accelerating our work on the environmental fate and
behaviour of minerals, contaminants, plastics and dust, this will be a national resource and will
underpin extensive future collaborations.

Our Rock Mechanics Laboratory (RML) integrates engineering geology, applied rock mechanics
and fluid-driven seismicity in unstable rock masses, ranging from volcanoes to hydrocarbon
reservoirs. The RML houses an 600kN INSTRON hydraulic press, upgraded Sanchez Triaxial
and Instron Uniaxial Rigs (£500k), 100 MPa rock deformation/physics ensemble, and a 12
channel Acoustic Emission system capable of recording 1Tb of data to disk per hour for
investigating fracture damage in real-time, akin to field-scale seismic monitoring. A 3D
visualisation suite (£19k) supports Whitworth’s ‘3DTeLC’ project developing virtual reality models
of natural hazards for PGRS training and outreach (Bull Volcanol. 2020; 82(5): 38). We have
also established a new Remote and Hyperspectral Sensing Laboratory (£154k) that uses lab-
based and portable systems to calibrate the remote sensing and field imaging of a wide range of
materials via NIR satellite capture. These investments have grown the vitality of research in the
NHG, underpinned high quality papers (REF2/16045450) and important industrial collaborations,
and attracted funded PGRS.

To support expansion of our micropalaeontology research, we have invested in dedicated
laboratories for sample preparation in a controlled environment, including a hydrofluoric acid
hood for dissolving silicate rock matrices. Broader palaeontology research is facilitated by
shared access to advanced imaging facilities in the Zeiss Global Centre (ZGC). The ZGC,
located in the Faculty of Technology, houses X-ray 3D microscopes (Versa 510 and Versa 520)
enabling high-resolution tomography and chemical mapping for imaging and elemental analysis
of fossils. Our Environmental Chemicals Analysis Laboratory has benefitted from purchase of a
Quattro nutrient analyser and a SpectroBlue ICP-OES, supporting geochemical analysis in
marine and sediment-water systems. We have also upgraded our greenhouse facilities, to
include mobile benches, automatic watering and day-length control lighting systems, which have
enabled simulated commercial tomato production as part of the European Horti-BlueC project
(Tallis, Ford).




                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Our facilities and instrumentation are accessible to wider academia and industry via the
University Research Portal and equipment sharing databases, such as Equipment.data and
Konfer. We will continue to invest in infrastructure, ensuring that future enhancement is driven
by our strategic priorities and maximises the opportunities for shared resource use.

Our researchers also access world-class research facilities that complement those in the Unit.
Researchers have secured competitive, peer-reviewed time at national facilities (equivalent to
£234k in this REF period), such as the NERC Ion Micro-probe Facility (Darling, Storey),
Biomolecular Analysis Facility (Ford) and National Environmental Isotope Facility (Darling,
Strachan, Parrish); Diamond Light Source (Smith); European Synchrotron Radiation Facility
(Storey, Darling); Atom Probe, Canadian Centre of Electron Microscopy; and Ion Microprobe,
Canadian Centre for Isotopic Microanalysis (Darling).


4       Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1     Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

Our strategic focus on supporting collaborations to enhance the quality of our research and
income generation is evidenced by 84% of our publications in this REF period being with
international or national co-authors (SciVal). Collaboration with academic partners is facilitated
by financial support, sabbaticals, mentoring and annual PDRs, where staff are encouraged to
develop their academic profile through visiting positions, research networks and roles in
professional bodies. Flexible allocations of funding for travel and placements have supported
visiting researcher positions in the UK (e.g. Aberdeen, Cambridge, Durham, Edinburgh, Leeds,
Southampton, Surrey) and overseas (e.g. University of the Algarve, ETH Zurich, Curtin
University, St Francis Xavier University, Lee Kong Chian Natural History Museum, NTU and
NUS). A partnership agreement with Brazilian universities, the Federal University of Ouro Preto
and State Universities of Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paolo, has facilitated staff and student
exchanges, joint publications and PGR studentships.

Our participation in funded research consortia promotes open science, produces rigorous
research outputs and contributes to international impact. Examples include:

     Cragg was a Co-I on the ‘Marine wood borer enzyme discovery’ research project (2014 -
      2019), a component of the £24M BBSRC Sustainable Bioenergy Centre, with HEI partners in
      the UK (Cambridge, York - lead), Europe (Copenhagen, Norway, Vienna), the USA (Ocean
      Genome Legacy Centre, Northeastern University, Boston), and Singapore. The project
      revealed the complex molecular mechanisms of wood digestion in marine wood borers and
      identified new enzymes and processes for production of biofuels and platform chemicals.
      Cragg has extended these international collaborations, to include the US NREL, to
      synthesise the understanding of how organisms across the ‘Tree of Life’ deconstruct
      enzyme-recalcitrant, but globally-dominant, vascular plant biomass and develop a major new
      perspective on the global flow of carbon from vascular plants into the oceans (Annual
      Review of Marine Science, 2020).




                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     Smith and Ford co-led the ‘TRansfer Exposure Effects’ (TREE) consortium with the
      Universities of Nottingham, Salford, Stirling, West of England and the NERC Centre of
      Ecology and Hydrology. TREE was the largest coordinated study on radiation exposure and
      effects undertaken within the Chernobyl Exclusion Zone and was awarded Times Higher
      Education Research Project of the Year in 2016.

     Darling leads the UoP2 Mars Consortium that brings together internationally leading
      expertise at Portsmouth and Plymouth Universities and the Royal Ontario Museum to study
      the crustal evolution of Mars.

     Mottram has developed a multi-partner collaboration with Laurentian University, gold
      exploration companies and the Yukon, Canadian and Israel Geological Surveys, resulting in
      a paper in Geology on U-Pb carbonate and K-Ar illite fault dating (REF2/22994790).

     Storey led a collaboration with the Universities of Bristol, Helsinki and Southampton that has
      provided new insights into the way that plate tectonics have shaped the Earth.

4.2     Engagement with users of research to deliver societal, economic and environmental
        impacts

Our researchers engage with end users through a number of routes, including:

     Using our specialist instrumentation to undertake collaborative and contract research.
      For example, the Rock Mechanics Laboratory facilitated a partnership with EPI Ltd, a
      geophysics consultancy, attracting a NERC iCASE studentship and delivering publications
      (JGR Solid Earth 2019; 124: 9562-9579). Similarly, the Remote and Hyperspectral Sensing
      Laboratory underpins partnerships with the quarry industry and Northern Ireland Health and
      Safety Executive on the rapid detection of erionite and other potentially asbestiform materials
      (Fowler and Gibson). The IMS has supported a suite of testing work on novel wood
      treatments, enzyme-enabled treatments to accelerate degradation of horse bedding and
      biofouling control treatments. The EMMU hosts and maintains the Mary Rose Trust’s SEM
      facilities; recent AHRC funding will enable correlative digital microscopy of some of the most
      important UK maritime heritage collections.

     Working directly with industry partners. This includes with DustscanAQ to improve air
      quality and identify ‘nuisance’ sources by monitoring and characterising industrial fugitive
      dusts (Fowler, Smith and Whitworth); supporting oil and gas exploration by Aker BP through
      characterising chalk hard grounds (Fowler, Gale and Koor); developing innovative wood
      treatments for marine construction with Kebony AS (UoP07Wood); and working with
      Southern Water to improve the management of Langstone Harbour by assessing marine
      litter and water quality (Hale, Watts).

     Building partnerships through national and international networks. The UoP is a
      member of the National Biofilms Innovation Centre through which Watts secured £50k to
      work with Historic England and the Isle of Wight Council on innovative methods of biofilm
      control that are being used to preserve the Newport Villa Roman mosaics. Solana and
      Teeuw are members of the UKRI-funded Caribbean Resilience and Recovery Knowledge


                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    Network that brings researchers, policymakers and practitioners together to work with SIDS
    that were most affected by the 2017 hurricanes and are struggling to ‘build back better’. In
    2017, Preston co-founded the UK & Ireland Native Oyster Network (with the Zoological
    Society of London) comprising 21 members, including universities, NGOs and seafood
    industry organisations. The network is engaged with 8 restoration projects and 13 fishery
    production companies. Preston also leads the UoP contribution to the Solent Oyster
    Restoration project that has restored 69,000 native oysters to the Solent.

   Working with national and international government agencies responsible for
    environmental monitoring and management. For example, working with universities and
    research institutes in the UK, France, Belgium and Netherlands to identify endocrine
    disrupter compounds in the environment (Ford); with the Swiss Oekotoxzentrum centre to
    develop biomarkers for sewage effluent exposure (Ford); with SAUEZM on a new water
    management strategy in the Chernobyl Exclusion Zone (UoP07Chernobyl); with water
    agencies and conservation trusts in the UK and Ireland on improved river catchment
    management (UoP07Chemcatcher); with materials testing agencies across Europe to
    incorporate the Portsmouth marine borer activity protocol into international standards
    (UoP07Wood); and with the United Nations, governments of Fiji, the Solomon Islands and
    Vanuatu and environmental consultancy companies on satellite remote sensing tools for
    enhanced climate resilience (Teeuw).

   Policy influencing through publications and invited presentations. Research on
    communication during volcanic crises (Solana, Teeuw) contributed to the 2017 Science and
    Technology Roadmap of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR) that
    highlighted the need for low cost, open-source GIS and shifted the focus from managing
    disasters to reducing risks. In 2018, Solana was an invited expert member of the Dominica
    post-Hurricane Maria review of Community Disaster Plans and Teeuw presented a summary
    of remote sensing applications for hurricane DRR to 50 diplomats, policy makers and NGO
    technical experts at a Canning House event on Natural Disasters in Latin America and the
    Caribbean.

   Delivering professional training programmes. Teeuw and Solana’s expertise in the use of
    geoinformatics, disaster preparedness mapping and risk communication has been
    incorporated into the SimEx training series, a multi-agency simulated disaster event
    response exercise, aligned with the UN Simulation and Training Network. Hosted annually by
    the UoP and Hampshire Fire and Rescue Service since 2015, participants from over 50
    emergency services, first-responder and humanitarian organisations, including RedR UK,
    Red Cross, MapAction and UNITAR, use SimEx to test and improve their emergency
    procedures and training.

The proportion of our research income from projects with at least one named non-academic
partner has grown from 53% in 2013/14 to 89% in 2019/20, and 11% of our submitted outputs
are co-authored with non-academic partners. Involvement of end users in the design and
implementation of our research ensures that it has clear societal relevance and that we are well-
positioned to respond to emerging priorities and challenges. This is evidenced by our research
programmes to address the problems of plastic pollution and waste management, air quality,
contamination of water and soils, and developing and living in marginal environments, especially

                                                                                          Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

in parts of the world subject to multi-geohazards. Users and beneficiaries of our research also
provide access to field sites (e.g. the CEZ (Smith), mangrove swamps in South East Asia and
high-intensity marine borer sites across Europe (Cragg)), and to exchange and placement
opportunities for staff and PGRS (2.2). Established partnerships have supported bids for new
instrumentation (e.g. new digital microscopes with the Mary Rose Trust (Darling) and an LA-
LIBS femtosecond laser system with the NERC BGS (Storey)) that enhances our infrastructure
and enables us to make a significant contribution to the UK research resource base.

4.3   Contributions to, and recognition by, our disciplines

Contributions to the wider scientific community are recognised in workload allocations and are
an important vehicle for extending intellectual leadership to our disciplines. Editorship positions
include Editor in Chief or Associate Editor (Fones, Continental Shelf Research; Ford, Frontiers in
Marine Science, PeerJ, Toxics; Parrish, Precambrian Research; Watts, Environmental
Microbiome); Special Issue Editor (Ford, Aquatic Toxicology; Hoque, Remote Sensing; Mottram,
Geochronology; Salta, Journal of Marine Science and Engineering); and Science Editor
(Strachan, Geological Society of America Bulletin). Researchers in the Unit have provided expert
review for the European Commission, national (BBSRC, EPSRC, NERC and STFC) and
international funding agencies in fifteen countries. They have also served on committees of
diverse funding bodies: NERC (Benson, Fones, Ford, Parrish, Storey); British Council Newton
Funding (Darling, Watts), European Commission (Watts - H2020 MCSA-IF, MCSA-ITN, ERA
Chair Evaluations, EU-LIF); Czech Science Foundation (Bourgeois); Hong Kong Research
Grants Council (Bourgeois); French Priority Research Programme on Antibiotic Resistance
(Watts); Spanish Ministry of Science and Innovation (Barrales); Commonwealth Science
Conference Grants Committee (Armbruster); Polish National Science Foundation (Storey); and
the Norwegian Research Council Earth Sciences Grant Panel (Parrish).

Staff have hosted international conferences at Portsmouth e.g. Engineering Geology 50
Conference, 2017 (Koor) and International Seminar on Radiation Effects on Wildlife, 2019
(Smith), and have chaired or convened sessions at international workshops and conferences.
These include: Goldschmidt (Darling, Sept, 2013; Mottram, 2017-2019); EURO-Conference in
Rock Physics and Geomechanics (Benson, 2015); RSPSoc and AGI briefing on Satellite remote
sensing for disaster risk reduction and insurance (Teeuw, 2016); 29th SETAC meeting (Ford,
Chair, 2019); Behavioural Toxicology in Regulation Workshop, UBA, Germany (Ford, 2019);
Fifth International Conference on the Effects of Noise on Aquatic Life (Marley, 2019); NORA
Conference (Preston, 2019); and Marine Bioremediation, International Marine Biotechnology
Conference (Watts, 2019).

Approximately 20 staff sit on committees of a diverse range of national and international
professional organisations and special interest groups. These include the UK, Geological
Society of London (Benson, Mottram, Teeuw, Strachan); UK Rock Deformation Network
(Benson, Chair); UK Coordinating Group on Environmental Radiation (Smith); Water Sciences
Forum of the Royal Society of Chemistry (Fones); General Council of Mineralogical Society of
Great Britain and Ireland (Darling); NERC Isotope Geosciences Facilities Steering Committee
(Parrish); NERC Ion Microprobe Facility Steering Committee (Storey, Chair); Metamorphic
Studies Group (Mottram, Chair); Association of Geotechnical Specialists (Koor); and the
Quantitative Ecology Special Interest Group of the British Ecological Society (Marley).

                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Internationally, staff have made important contributions to influential bodies, including the
Mangrove Specialist Group of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (Cragg),
International Marine Biotechnology Association (Watts) and the European Society for Marine
Biotechnology (Salta). Watts was an advisor for the Microbiology Society ‘Microbiome Policy
Report’ (2017). Darling, Gale, Storey and Strachan are co-authors on the ‘Geological Time Scale
2020’, evidencing our international reputation for geology and stratigraphy. In recognition of his
distinguished contributions to geosciences, Strachan was elected as a Fellow of the Geological
Society of America in 2020.

4.4   Engagement with diverse communities and publics

We are passionate about engaging the public with our research and employ a variety of
mechanisms to do this. Our staff work with the University’s press office and the media in
general. Over the last three years, Martill’s research on new pterosaur species, fossils of the
oldest mammals related to mankind, and evidence of aquatic dinosaurs has been reported in
nearly 2,000 news articles and broadcast clips. Similarly, Smith’s research on wildlife in the CEZ
has had media reach of over 100 million and inspired Sir David Attenborough to visit Chernobyl
in the final scene of ‘Our Planet’, Netflix’s most successful documentary series, with 25 million
viewers in its first month. Moreover, Smith’s ATOMIK grain spirit project, which produces vodka
from grain grown within the CEZ, has gained significant international media attention (e.g. BBC
News, CNN, Times of India, Xinhua) and is benefitting local communities through the social
enterprise Chernobyl Spirit Company. Shipway’s discovery of a new genus and species of rock-
eating shipworm, undertaken with Philippine Mollusk Symbiont International Biodiversity
Collaborative Group, was reported internationally (e.g. New York Times) and was ranked in the
top 50 global science stories of 2019 by Discover magazine.

Our staff and PGRS engage with our local community through participation in activities such as
Pint of Science Week, outreach events at Portsmouth’s Victorious Music Festival, Portsmouth
Green Drinks, Cafe Scientifique, U3A, and through delivering STEM sessions across primary
schools in the area. With their strong emphasis on Science in Society, Palaeontology PGRS also
act as STEMNet ambassadors in local schools and deliver talks and events at the ‘Dinosaur Isle’
Museum, Isle of Wight. We have used “citizen-science” projects to promote engagement and
change public awareness. For example, Preston’s ‘Photograph an oyster’ project, undertaken
through the Native Oyster Network, encouraged members of the public to photograph living
native oysters around the UK coastline to raise awareness of native oyster reef habitats and the
importance of oysters within ecosystem services, and to change public perception of oysters as
a seafood dish. More broadly, Preston’s work on the regeneration of native oyster stocks has
received significant national media coverage, including on BBC television programmes ‘Coast’
(2016) and ‘Countryfile’ (2018). Marley has used sightings reported by members of the public to
map the location of marine mammals in the waters surrounding the Isle of Wight. Ford and
Marley have partnered with the 2,000 mile ‘GB Row challenge’ to measure microplastics and
pollutants in the water and create the first underwater noise pollution map of the UK. Ford’s work
on the negative consequences of antidepressant contamination to aquatic wildlife has been
widely reported in national (e.g. The Daily Telegraph and The Daily Mail), and international (e.g.
Fox News, National Geographic) media. A collaboration with performance artist, Paul Henry, in



                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

2017 led to ‘Shrimp Dance’, a series of performances and discussions as part of Scottish Mental
Health Arts & Film Festival, supported by Creative Scotland.




                                                                                        Page 21
