Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Lincoln

 Unit of Assessment: Politics and International Studies (UoA19)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Context
 The School of Social and Political Sciences supports teaching and research in politics and
 international relations as well as criminology, social policy and sociology and is also
 providing the core of the University’s submission under UoA20 Social Policy and Social
 Work. The submission under UoA19 encompasses a diverse range of research
 interests which reflect the interdisciplinary nature of the School, these include comparative
 politics, legislative studies, nationalist and authoritarian politics, political leadership, intelligence
 and security, young people’s politics, the politics of gender and sexuality, and the regulation of
 bioethics. This UoA provides the core of researchers for the Lincoln Parliamentary Research
 Centre (ParliLinc) and a new research group on the politics of disorder as well as contributing to
 research clusters on gender and sexuality, and terrorism studies which include staff from both
 UoAs within the School.
 Since REF 2014 the UoA has sought to build on key elements of its previous submission by
 reconfiguring and strengthening its research groups, seeking to enhance the quality of research
 outputs and developing broader and more sustained engagement with research users.
 These developments have been facilitated by a staffing strategy which has brought in a number
 of new staff with a track record of high-quality research, coupled with support for the career
 progression of existing staff. The number of staff included in this submission is almost double the
 number submitted to REF2014. The UoA has also benefitted significantly from institutional
 support through, for example, pump-priming research funding, professional support for impact
 generation and the development of open data.
 Research Strategy
 The 2014 REF submission outlined four key objectives for enhancing research in politics and
 international studies at Lincoln: building capacity; enhancing quality; stimulating new
 research; and engaging users. These objectives underpinned a research strategy which aimed
 at:
     • increasing the proportion of research active staff. This has been achieved through new
          appointments, ongoing support for all researchers and also targeted support for early
          career researchers and those who have been less research active, through for example,
          involvement in research groups, collaboration with established researchers in the
          generation of funding applications, and research mentoring;
     • enhancing the quality of research outputs, rather than simply increasing the number of
          outputs. This has involved providing researchers with the time and space to focus
          on high-quality outputs including through research sabbaticals and writing
          retreats, and also by providing a rigorous but supportive process of internal review;
     • growing PGR provision and numbers, through a commitment to enhanced facilities
          and an ongoing programme of PhD bursaries, while continuing to build our capacity for
          research supervision;
     • engaging research users, through a more active process of disseminating research
          findings alongside a dynamic responsive approach to calls for evidence.
          We have also sought to bring research users into the University to discuss their
          needs, as partners in research projects and through membership of
          the Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre.
 There have been a number of notable achievements in pursuit of these objectives within the
 current REF period.
     • There has been a significant increase in the number of research active staff with an
          increase in FTE staff submitted from 7.3 in 2014 to 13.6 in the current submission. This
          has been achieved through new appointments at all levels (see section 2).
     • The growth in the research base within the School is also reflected by internal
          promotions during this REF cycle, including the appointment of the School’s first
          Professor of Politics. The current submission also includes five members of staff at


                                                                                                   Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          the level of Associate Professor (Bacon, Bochel, Defty, Isaacs, Langlois) compared to
          one in 2014, (see section 2).
     • The provision of fully funded doctoral studentships has had a significant impact on
          completions with three of the five funded studentships within the School since 2014
          having submitted. There are also a number of notable examples of PhD students
          beginning to produce published outputs with their supervisors and other members of staff
          from the School (see section 2).
     • There has been a fourfold increase in external income since the previous REF, facilitated
          in part by institutional support in bid writing and pump priming research funding for pilot
          projects (see section 3).
     • A review of research groups across the university coupled with new
          appointments has led to a refocusing of research groups and the emergence of a number
          of new areas of research. Research clusters in gender & sexuality
          (including Briggs and Obendorf from this UoA) and
          terrorism studies (including Hinkkainen and Defty, from this UoA) reflect
          existing research within the School, while new appointments have led to
          the emergence of a new research group on the politics of disorder, bringing together
          scholars working on nationalism, authoritarianism and
          populism (Bacon, Chebankova, Cowen, Isaacs, Trantidis), and the consolidation of
          critical mass of scholars working in the field of parliamentary studies (including from this
          UoA, Bennister, Bochel, Defty & McKay).
     • The establishment of the Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre (ParliLinc) has been a
          significant driver behind research and impact in this UoA and the School. The
          Centre was established with University support in 2020 and emerged out of an existing
          parliamentary studies research group within the School. The Centre has been
          instrumental in building links between the University and legislatures across the UK and
          beyond, including through academic fellowships at Westminster (Bennister and Bochel)
          and the Scottish Parliament (H. Bochel, UoA20) and by facilitating parliamentary
          engagement by researchers from across the University (see section 4).
     • The focus on stimulating new research and enhancing the quality of outputs has been
          underpinned by a number of initiatives which have now become embedded in the School
          calendar including research sabbaticals, annual writing retreats and research
          mentoring (see section 3). One indicator of the impact of this approach has been an
          increase in the number of single and co-authored research monographs produced by
          staff in this UoA. There have also been a number of notable achievements in
          terms of high-profile research prizes. In 2017 McKay was awarded a Progress Prize by
          Princeton University for his top-scoring submission to the Fragile Families
          Challenge. Slaven’s co-authored paper “What drives the immigration-welfare policy link?
          Comparing Germany, France and the United Kingdom” won the 2019 Best Paper Award
          from the Council for European Studies Immigration Research Network.
 Impact strategy
 The UoA’s approach and capacity for enabling impact has developed considerably since 2014
 driven in part by institutional changes (see section 3), and also as the result of initiatives
 developed within the School. We build impact activities into each project from the start, and,
 where possible, involve potential users throughout the research process. Potential impacts are
 identified early, then communicated, discussed, developed and co-produced with the relevant
 stakeholders. Considerable attention has also been paid to ensure that research impact is
 clearly evidenced.
 The School impact strategy has focused on a number of key approaches to enabling impact:
     • Policy-relevant research on key issues: while generating impact from high-quality
          research is by no means guaranteed, the potential for impact has been enhanced by
          identifying and supporting policy-relevant research on pressing contemporary issues. For
          example, H. Bochel and Defty’s research on intelligence oversight has taken place at a
          time of considerable debate about intelligence agency powers in a number of states. As
          a result, their research has been used by intelligence oversight bodies in Canada and
          Australia and mentioned in parliamentary debate in the UK (see section 4).


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •     Engaging with research users: there has been significant and increasing engagement
          with research users throughout the research process. For example, through their House
          of Commons Academic Fellowships Bennister and Bochel worked with a number
          of parliamentary bodies and co-authored, with House of Commons library staff, research
          briefings on the Liaison Committee (Bennister) and Public Engagement (Bochel). They
          also co-authored a report on academics working in Parliament (see section 4).
     • Communication of research findings: in addition to the publication of high-quality
          outputs all major research projects must log an engagement plan and short research
          summaries are now produced for distribution to potential users. Institutional support has
          been provided through a College Impact Generation Fund to enable production and
          distribution, including professional layout and printing costs.
     • Responding to consultations and inquiries: the College Research Administrator
          provides staff with regular updates on consultations and calls for
          evidence including from parliamentary committees and government
          departments. Researchers in this UoA have submitted evidence to more than twenty
          select committee inquiries since 2014. The Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre has
          also facilitated several sessions for staff from across the University on engaging with
          Parliament and Government (see section 4).
     • Engaging with the media: while engaging with the media does not in itself constitute
          impact it is recognised that media coverage for research is as an important potential
          pathway to impact. Researchers within the UoA contribute to an average of one story per
          week in the local and national media (see section 4).
     • Sharing best practice – in addition to a significant increase in institutional support for
          impact-related activities, there is now considerable experience within the UoA and the
          School of a range of approaches to engagement and impact and there has been
          considerable sharing of experience and best practice through annual research away
          days, staff colloquia, the mentoring system and individual peer support (see section 3).
 Research and Impact Strategy – the next five years
 In the next five years this UoA will continue to further the University of Lincoln’s research
 priorities of producing “purposeful research with impact”, following its “local to global” principle
 of prioritising research that is of relevance to our locality and that has global significance, drives
 economic development and enhances social and cultural life both within and beyond our
 immediate community.
 In order to do this, we will:
     • Build on the reconfiguration of research groups which has taken place since REF2014 in
          order to consolidate distinct and recognised clusters of research expertise. The
          establishment of the Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre has demonstrated what can
          be achieved by bringing together a critical mass of scholars with a common research
          focus and we will build on this model in relation to other research groups and clusters
          within the School.
     • We aim to expand the work and profile of the Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre to
          become a centre of national and international significance in legislative studies. We will
          do this by expanding the research base with additional staff and PGR
          students, cementing our links with research users in parliaments across the
          UK, and building new links with national parliaments overseas.
     • At the same time, the School will always remain a home for scholars working on a
          diverse range of projects individually and in cooperation with others. We will continue to
          embrace the diversity of approaches within politics and international studies and
          encourage the interdisciplinarity which is a defining feature of the School.
     • We will support researchers at all levels, from PGR students to Professors, to build active
          and fulfilling research careers which are beneficial to them, the institution, and the wider
          academic and policy community. We will do this through our continued commitment to
          collegiality through research mentoring, supportive peer review, and by continuing to
          provide mechanisms which provide the space and time for discussion, collaboration, and
          sharing best practice.
     • We will build our PGR community by seeking to attract PGR students who have chosen
          to study at Lincoln because of our particular research expertise. Research groups will be

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         encouraged to apply for funding for PGR students to underpin their work, build capacity
         and providing broad based support for our PGR students.
     • The generation of external income clearly remains a significant priority for this UoA. We
         will continue to encourage staff to gain experience in income generation using internal
         funding mechanisms and small grant schemes to pilot research projects and develop
         new avenues for research. Internal peer review and sharing best practice will be central
         to the generation of external income.
     • We will continue to engage with research users locally, nationally, and increasingly
         internationally in order to generate impactful research. We will do this through the active
         dissemination of our research and by bringing research users into the University to share
         our findings, explain their needs and participate in research projects.
 Open Access
 The University is committed to open data as a partner in the JISC-funded open research project
 and a signatory to the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (see institutional
 environment statement). Staff are encouraged to upload all outputs, including abstracts and
 external presentations, to the Lincoln Research Repository and new staff are provided with
 training on the operation of the repository.
 In addition to 100% compliance with open access requirements for outputs in this submission,
 academic staff in this UoA include some who are leading exponents of the University’s
 commitment to arrangements for Open Access to research data. In particular, McKay is a
 member of University Research Data Management Working Group and led activities to discuss
 open science at a series of events within the University in 2019. He has also been an exemplar
 in wider availability of resources to permit replication of work. His Open Science Framework
 website, started August 2017, includes the code (SPSS, Stata, R formats) and data for a number
 of recent papers and projects, such as Vice-Chancellors’ pay and, jointly with the University of
 Birmingham, a research archive relating to the membership of UK House of Commons Select
 Committees.


 2. People
 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Staffing is central to the School’s research strategy. Strategic investment by the University has
 considerably expanded the research base in the School, with 17 appointments since 2014, a
 number of these being new posts. This has led to an increase in the number of staff submitted in
 this UoA from 7.3 in REF2014 to 13.6 in the current submission. Eight members of staff in this
 submission have been appointed since REF 2014. These include posts at
 various levels: Bacon, Isaacs (Associate Professor); Bennister, Charountaki (Senior
 Lecturer); Cowen, Hughes, Slaven and Trantidis (Lecturer). As part of the annual academic
 promotions process several members of staff secured promotion during the current REF
 period, Bochel, Chebankova and Langlois became Associate Professors, while Briggs
 was promoted to Professor of Politics in 2017. Four members of staff included in REF2014 have
 moved on to posts at other institutions - Chebankova (Moscow), Hinkkainen (Leeds),
 Parks (Trento) and Strange (Perth, WA). Dr Yee-Wah Foo retired in 2018, and Professor Briggs
 died in post in July 2018.
 While retaining our commitment to the appointment and development of early career
 researchers a number of appointments have been made at more senior levels in order to
 enhance research leadership in the School and particularly in this UoA. McKay was appointed
 as Distinguished Professor of Social Research in 2013, while Briggs became the School’s first
 Professor of Politics in 2017. In line with our research strategy, appointments have also been
 made to consolidate and expand existing research groups. The School’s expertise in the field
 of parliamentary studies has been enhanced by new appointments (notably Bennister and
 McKay) and the establishment of the Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre. New
 appointments have also allowed for the development of a new research group on the politics
 of disorder (notably Bacon, Cowen, Isaacs, Trantidis).
 All new academic staff are guaranteed a lower than average teaching and administrative load in
 their first academic year and are free to apply for support such as sabbaticals and College
 Research Fund grants from the start of their contract. The School has also moved towards

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 providing stability in contracts, with all staff in this UoA employed on a permanent basis. The
 University fully supports the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers by
 recruiting, supporting, and retaining researchers with the highest potential to achieve excellence
 in research.
 Individual career planning and progression is also facilitated by the
 University’s annual Academic Development and Appraisal (ADA) scheme. In addition to this
 the Individual Research Planning (IRP) process enables staff to set goals and review progress in
 relation to research and income generation, and to record their wider contributions to
 the discipline through external engagement and impact-related activities. It also allows for
 monitoring the alignment of individual objectives with the School research strategy and the
 identification of any potential barriers to progress in research. Individual requests are fed into
 workload modelling and research mentoring while broader concerns are filtered through
 the School Director of Research to the College Research Committee.
 Research time is protected through workload allocation and timetabling. All staff are provided
 with at least one non-teaching day a week during term-time. A timetable constraints process
 allows staff to request which day(s) they would like to reserve for research, for example, those
 conducting research on Parliament often prefer teaching to be loaded towards the end of the
 week when Parliament may not be sitting. The School has a sabbatical scheme which allows up
 to four members of staff from across the School to take research leave each year, in either the
 Autumn or Spring term. Sabbaticals are allocated on application rather than on a rotational
 basis. Applications are considered by the School Research Team, comprising the Head of
 School, Director and Deputy Directors of Research, with applicants identifying deliverable
 outcomes and providing a planned programme of work. Conference attendance is also
 generously supported, and staff can expect to be supported to participate in at least one major
 national or international conference each year.
 Alongside research management structures there is a strong culture of collegiality within the
 School. This is formalised through the research mentoring scheme, which is a voluntary
 arrangement whereby staff are paired with mentors who can provide advice in relation to
 particular priorities or concerns such as grant capture, writing for publication or academic
 promotions. Staff also share their research and experiences through the School seminar series
 and colloquia. There are two away days each year focused respectively on
 teaching and learning and research. The research away day provides an opportunity to learn
 what others in the School are working on and to share best practice. It has also been used to
 allow for a truly collaborative approach to the development of the School research strategy and
 to provide space for discussions around the formation of new research groups.
 Research students
 The postgraduate research profile of the School has been enhanced since 2014, with a
 particular focus on: improving the infrastructure and facilities for research students; increasing
 the number of completions; and building capacity in research supervision. The provision of fully
 funded doctoral studentships has been a significant factor in increasing the number of PhD
 completions across the School. The College has supported five fully funded studentships within
 the School since 2014, (Smith, 2014; Andrews 2015; Allsop 2016; Leavesley,
 2018; Cutner 2020), three of whom have submitted their thesis (Smith, Allsop & Andrews). There
 have been two PhD completions to date in politics and international
 studies (Olanrewaju, Kirkpatrick), with three further submissions having been made at the time
 of the census (Adamou, Andrews & Allsop). The University has also provided the opportunity for
 staff who do not currently hold a PhD but who have a strong publication record to submit for PhD
 by publication. Supervisory support is provided on the same basis as other PGR students and
 staff are eligible for the University’s Programme of Study Funding Scheme. This has resulted
 in two members of staff from the School being awarded PhD by publication in the current REF
 period, Bochel from this UoA and Strudwick from UoA20.
 The School aims to provide a supportive environment for PGR students which will enable
 students to play a full role in the life of the School while aiming to complete in four
 years. Supervision is undertaken by a supervisory team of up to three academic staff members,
 at least one of whom must have supervised a PhD to completion. There is extensive
 collaboration between staff across the School in the supervision of PGR students with many
 students being supervised by members from both UoAs in the School. This allows for

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supervision which combines subject expertise alongside experience in research
 supervision, and also helps to build capacity by allowing new or inexperienced staff to gain
 experience as research supervisors. In the period since 2014, several staff within the UoA have
 acquired their first experience of supervising PhDs to completion (Hinkkainen,
 Langlois, Obendorf, Kisby). All staff supervising PhDs must complete the university Doctoral
 School’s PhD supervisor training and undertake a refresher course every four years. Training
 has continued online during the Covid-19 pandemic.
 In addition to increasing PGR numbers and completions, the School research
 strategy has aimed to fully integrate PGR students into the academic life of the School. Facilities
 provided for research students within the School include modern shared office space and
 networked computers within the same suite as academic staff. In accordance with
 the university’s student engagement strategy, PGR students play a full part in the work of the
 School. PGR students are represented on all School committees, participate in research
 seminars and colloquia and receive support to participate in external conferences on the same
 basis as academic staff. A colloquia series provides an opportunity for PGR students to hone
 presentations in front of a supportive audience within the School, before embarking on
 participation in external conferences. During the census period, PGR students from this
 UoA have participated in a variety of external conferences including the annual conferences of
 the Political Studies Association, the Social Policy Association, the British Society for
 Criminology and the International Society for Political Psychology.
 PGR students also benefit from institutional support from the Doctoral School, which provides
 research education, career development programmes and a support network. PGR students
 have the opportunity to present their work at an annual Postgraduate Research Showcase.
 Students are also provided with opportunities to gain experience in writing for publication
 through an in-house peer-reviewed publication and also co-authored publications with
 established academic staff. The university provides publishing opportunities
 through IMPact, the University of Lincoln online journal of higher education research, which
 publishes peer-reviewed articles by staff and students. A number of PGR students have also co-
 authored work in peer-reviewed journals and books alongside staff from the School. These
 include a book and several journal articles on oversight of the intelligence and security agencies
 co-authored by Kirkpatrick with H. Bochel and Defty, and two journal articles on young people’s
 attitudes to politics published by Allsop with his supervisory team, Kisby and Briggs.
 The University has put in place a number of measures to support PGR students during the
 Covid-19 pandemic. PGR supervision is continuing remotely, and students have the opportunity
 to borrow ICT equipment from the University. PGR students can also apply for up to £300 from
 College funds to support their studies at this time. All PGR students are entitled to up to six
 months extension on maximum enrolment or up to two years interruption if Covid-19 has
 disrupted their studies. The University will continue to support students during a period of
 interruption with access to their University account, professional services and supervisory
 support. The submission of paperwork including thesis submission is electronic at this time
 and viva voce are taking place using video or teleconferencing.
 Equality, diversity and inclusion
 The School believes that diverse viewpoints are needed for the best research environment, and
 actively researches equality and diversity issues. In addition to running an MA in Gender Studies
 (established in 2018), the School has been a leading driver of equality, diversity and
 inclusion within the University. In 2016 the University established the Eleanor Glanville
 Centre, an interdisciplinary centre for the promotion of more inclusive gender practices in
 research and teaching. Professor Jacqui Briggs was one of five founding Directors and
 many school staff are active members of the Centre. The Women into
 Research network launched by Catherine Bochel in the previous REF period involved a seminar
 series, workshops and mentoring designed to bring together women at different stages of their
 research careers. This has now been absorbed into the Eleanor Glanville Centre. The Centre
 has also showcased research generated within the School, including Sundari’s (UoA20) work on
 striking women, Jordan’s (UoA20) research on men’s rights groups and from
 this UoA, Obendorf’s research on the representation of women in South-East Asia. As a scholar
 of postcolonial studies, Obendorf is also a member of the University-wide Decolonisation of the
 Curriculum Oversight Group.

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Equality, diversity and inclusion are promoted in all aspects of the recruitment and career
 management of staff members within the University, College and School. For most of the current
 REF period the positions of Vice Chancellor, Head of College and Head of the School of Social
 and Political Sciences were held by women. Currently 47% of full-time academic staff within the
 School identify as women, and 22% within the UoA. Women have held posts at all levels within
 the School, and the period since 2014 has seen more women promoted to positions at the
 Associate Professor and Professorial level, including from
 this UoA Bochel, Briggs, Chebankova and Langlois. The School supports flexible working for
 individuals, with routine use of working from home and part-time working. During the current
 REF period several staff have moved to fractional contracts, at their request, and the School has
 successfully facilitated several periods of maternity (3) and paternity leave (2) and the transition
 back into research and teaching.
 Representation of other groups with protected characteristics remains challenging. Staff must
 undertake training on equality and diversity as part of their induction, and on related matters
 such as unconscious bias. The University is in the process of rolling out revised demographic
 data collection that includes, as a simple but illustrative example, the option to record a non-
 binary response to gender questions. The UoA also has a co-investigator (McKay) on the
 ESPRC ASPIRE programme (Advanced Strategic Platform for Inclusive Research
 Environments), dedicated to more inclusive research environments within STEM subjects which
 is likely to generate further recommendations for change in this area.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Research income
 Income generation has been a significant priority for the School and UoA. There has been a
 significant increase in research income within this UoA during the current REF period from
 £157,000 in the last REF submission to around £691,306.35 in the current REF period. This
 success reflects over forty successful funding bids, ranging from £600 to £193,000, from a wide
 variety of local, national and international sources. These have included projects funded by:
 research councils (ESRC, NERC, ERC); charitable foundations (Barrow Cadbury Trust, British
 Academy, Nuffield Foundation and the Wellcome Trust); government departments (DWP); non-
 departmental government bodies (National Institute for Health Research); professional bodies
 (the Political Studies Association); and the private sector (BDO LLP).
 Notable externally funded projects include:
     • the ERC-funded BENELEX project, a major interdisciplinary project in which Parks
          worked with legal scholars from Edinburgh and Strathclyde to examine the role of law in
          facilitating benefit sharing as means of addressing global environmental challenges
          (£193,462);
     • funding provided by the Chiang Ching-kuo Foundation for International Scholarly
          Exchange to Dr Yee-Wah Foo to translate, digitize and annotate the diaries
          of Fu Bingchang (1895-1965), China's ambassador to the USSR from 1943-
          49 (£63,680);
     • Langlois’ Wellcome Trust funded project to examine the cause of bottlenecks in the
          development of regulations by global health institutions such as the World Health
          Organisation and the World Medical Association (£23,086);
     • McKay’s involvement in the British Academy funded Select Committee Data Archive,
          which has brought together, and made freely available, membership data for all House of
          Commons select committees from 1979-80 to 2014-15 (£2,038).
 Staff from this UoA are also involved in externally funded projects listed
 under other UoAs within the university and at other institutions. For example, Langlois was co-
 investigator on Wellcome Trust funded project with staff from Allied Health (UoA3)
 exploring the ethics of ambulance trials. Cowen is a co-PI with Colosi (UoA20) on a UKRI funded
 project, ‘Sexualised Marginalised Bodies Online’ and Bennister is a CI on a UKRI funded
 project based at the University of Sheffield comparing Prime Ministerial leadership in Japan and
 the UK.
 Staff have also won awards where the income is in kind, but often very valuable. This
 includes Bennister and Bochel’s House of Commons academic fellowships, and

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 H. Bochel’s (UoA20) academic fellowship at the Scottish Parliament. Such activities can facilitate
 access, enable new research, generate reports and other outputs, and lead to significant
 impacts.
 Infrastructure and facilities
 The School Director of Research is responsible, with the Head of School, for the development of
 the School research strategy, reviewing Individual Research Plans, and communicating research
 needs at a College level. Two Deputy Directors of Research (one of whom is Bennister from this
 UoA) have responsibility for grant capture and research environment. Following REF2014, a
 School impact champion (Bochel from this UoA) was also appointed to identify and coordinate
 opportunities for impact and engagement across both UoAs in the School. This has
 facilitated developments such as the dissemination of impact guidance, and workshops to allow
 the sharing of experience and best practice, as well as the targeted dissemination of
 opportunities for impact.
 Members of the UoA work closely with the College Research Officers and Business
 Development Managers to help identify opportunities for external funding and to develop grant
 applications. Staff receive a monthly funding call newsletter tailored towards research
 opportunities for those in the College. The College has also been a significant driver behind
 enabling impact. A College Enterprise and Impact Manager has been instrumental in
 establishing links with potential research users and disseminating opportunities for user
 engagement within the College. The University is also a member of the Universities Policy
 Engagement Network (UPEN).
 The College also hosts a number of events designed to facilitate the sharing of best practice and
 the development of cross-disciplinary collaboration. Monthly College research seminars provide
 an opportunity for staff to discuss research findings, to test ideas and seek collaborators for
 projects. These are aimed at staff from across the College and those emerging from this UoA
 have included sessions by Parliamentary Outreach on giving evidence to parliament, the House
 of Commons Clerk of Committees Paul Evans and the former Chief Government Social
 Researcher, Sue Duncan. The College also hosts an annual research showcase. This is a one-
 day event at which individual researchers and research teams from across the College present
 research projects through conference panels and a poster presentation.
 Successful external funding bids have often been the product of internal seed-funding for the
 development of research projects. The University has invested in research by providing funding
 for research projects which have the potential to generate significant external income and high-
 quality research outputs. At College level, individual members of staff are invited to apply
 for pump-priming research funding through the College Research Fund to support expenses of
 up to £3,000 which will foster the development of skills, experience and research networks. The
 scheme is not intended to act as a substitute for external funding, but to allow researchers to
 develop the necessary skills and experience required to succeed in applying for external
 funding. This includes providing support for building a research profile through the development
 of contacts and the generation of research outputs which demonstrate the viability
 of developing research projects. Funding has also been provided to allow the continuation of
 research and the development of further outputs and engagement activity following the
 completion of externally funded research.

 College Research Funding has been used to support a number of research projects in the
 School and UoA demonstrating the varying objectives of the fund:
     • support for Langlois’ research on bioethics governance (2013), led to a successful
        funding bid to the Wellcome Trust in 2019 for her project on regulatory bottlenecks in
        global health;
     • following the completion of a book on parliamentary scrutiny of intelligence in the UK in
        2014, supported in part by the Leverhulme Trust, Defty received funding to support
        ongoing research into the subsequent reform of intelligence oversight in the UK, which
        has led to a number of additional outputs and impact and engagement activities;
     • H. Bochel (UoA20) received funding in 2018 to allow for the continuation of his research
        on diversity of committee witnesses, including in the Westminster Parliament, begun
        while he was an Academic Fellow at the Scottish Parliament;


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •    support for Skoczylis’ (UoA20) research on monitoring violent extremism in Lincolnshire
         (2016) and online extremism and the life-course (2019) has facilitated the development
         of links with research users in the local community and provided the basis for a major
         external funding bid on violent right-wing extremism in the UK.
 In addition to College support for individual researchers, in 2013 the University launched a
 Research Investment Fund (RIF), an annual £500,000 investment fund to assist teams
 of academic staff with the development of major new research projects through support for PhD
 studentships, equipment and the pump-priming of new avenues of research. Two research
 project teams within this UoA have been supported by RIF funding:
      • From 2013 - 2015, a team of researchers from the School received £34,650 to conduct
         research on parliament’s capacity to identify potential policy successes and failures. The
         project has led to a number of outputs in peer-reviewed journals and submissions for
         external funding. The team is currently looking at the parliamentary interest in pandemic
         preparedness prior to the Covid-19 outbreak.
      • In 2014, a team of researchers from the Schools of Social and Political Sciences, Health
         and Social Care and Performing Arts, received £44,365 for an active-research project on
         bystander intervention, ‘Stand Together: Challenging gender-based violence through
         prevention education’. The project involved peer education programmes with student
         volunteers, a poster campaign and a theatre project which brought together young
         women and men to challenge prevailing cultures which condone violence and violence-
         tolerant norms.
 In addition to support for developing research projects, an Impact Generation Fund has been
 established to support engagement activities associated with research projects. Staff can apply
 for funding to cover the costs associated with engagement such as publishing costs for short
 briefing papers, travel or hosting networking meetings, online and social media campaigns.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships:
 Key research user: Parliaments
 The School has a track-record of producing research around the study of parliaments and
 legislatures. The Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre (ParliLinc) provides a focus for
 research and teaching in this area and supports links with legislatures and their members. This
 research has led to significant engagement with legislatures across the UK and beyond, which is
 serving to further underpin research, impact and teaching across the University. Three members
 of the School have held parliamentary fellowships in the current REF period. Bochel and
 Bennister held House of Commons/Political Studies Association Academic Fellowships from
 2016 to 2019, while H. Bochel (UoA20) held an academic fellowship at the Scottish
 Parliament in 2017. Research on parliaments is also embedded in teaching in the School, which
 currently delivers an undergraduate Parliamentary Studies module in cooperation with the
 House of Commons and a Masters’ module in Comparative Legislatures. The Centre has also
 been successful in securing a College funded doctoral studentship which commenced in 2020
 ParliLinc researchers have been particularly active in responding to a diverse range
 of parliamentary inquiries. Four separate submissions were made to the House of
 Commons Liaison Committee’s inquiry on Effectiveness and influence of the select committee
 system (Bennister, Bochel, H. Bochel, Defty). Submissions to other inquiries include House of
 Lords Liaison Committee, Review of Investigative and Scrutiny Committees (Bochel; H.
 Bochel); House of Lords Select Committee on Citizenship & Civic Engagement
 (Kisby); Procedure Committee, E-petitions (Bochel) and Establishing select committees in a new
 Parliament (Defty); Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee, Status of
 Resolutions of the House of Commons (Defty) and The Role and Status of the Prime Minister’s
 Office (Bennister); as well as the Speaker’s Commission on Digital Democracy (Bochel).
 The Centre has also been instrumental in building links with those working in and
 on Parliament. Paul Evans, former House of Commons Clerk of Committees, has been
 appointed as a visiting Professor in Parliamentary Studies, while Brigid Fowler of the Hansard
 Society and Matthew Taylor, formerly Director of the Parliamentary Digital
 Services, are associate members of the Centre. In 2020, the Centre was awarded £900 from the

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Political Studies Association to run a workshop on Governance and Leadership of Legislatures
 in partnership with the PSA specialist groups on parliaments and on political
 leadership. Members of the Centre have also used their contacts in Parliament to support and
 encourage engagement with Parliament by researchers working in other disciplines. In January
 2020 the Centre delivered a one-day workshop on engaging with Parliament with staff
 from the Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology attended
 by researchers from across the University.
 Research generated within the Centre is beginning to have impact in a range
 of legislatures across the UK and beyond. Research conducted by H. Bochel (UoA20) on
 diversity of committee witnesses as part of his fellowship at the Scottish Parliament, not only led
 to a change of policy in the Scottish Parliament but has also led to discussions with those
 looking at witness diversity at Westminster, in the US House of Representatives
 and the Canadian Parliament, (see REF3 Impact case study 1). Bochel’s research on petitions
 systems has had an impact at Westminster and has been cited in the Scottish and Canadian
 Parliaments (see REF3 Impact case study 2), while H. Bochel and Defty’s research on
 intelligence oversight at Westminster has prompted invites to speak to the representatives from
 the Canadian National Security and Intelligence Committee of Parliamentarians and the
 Australian Inspector-General of Intelligence and Security.
 Key research user: government
 Engagement with governments is almost inevitably more sporadic than the ongoing links with
 legislatures, although in this area ParliLinc researchers have also been instrumental in
 encouraging engagement, including by organising two workshops at Lincoln on engaging with
 policymakers with the Institute for Government and the HMG Open Innovation Team.
 In many cases engagement with government has involved responding to consultations and
 actively disseminating findings to those involved in the policy process. For example, H. Bochel
 and Defty’s work on scrutiny of the intelligence agencies has taken place at a time of
 significant debate about intelligence agency powers and of legislative change to
 accommodate, and to some extent limit, those powers. Their submissions to the Joint Select
 Committee on the Draft Investigatory Powers Bill and to the government’s Investigatory Powers
 Review conducted by David Anderson, QC, made a number of recommendations which were
 included in the Anderson review and subsequently the Investigatory Powers Act 2016. In
 2019 Lord Anderson referred to Defty’s research on the Intelligence and Security Committee in a
 House of Lords debate while seeking to press the government to engage more closely with the
 Committee. In 2020, Defty’s blogpost for the Hansard Society on the delay in appointing a new
 Intelligence and Security Committee was referred to in a letter to the Prime Minister from a cross
 party groups of thirty MPs urging the appointment of a new committee.
 Members of staff from this UoA have been invited to speak to government departments about
 their research. For example, in 2018 Slaven was asked to speak about his research on migration
 as part of the Home Office’s History & Policy seminar series, and to the Windrush Lessons
 Learned Review and his research was cited in the review report. Defty’s earlier research on Cold
 War propaganda prompted an invitation to the Home Office in 2018, to speak to staff from
 across Whitehall who are currently involved in counter-radicalisation and counter-propaganda
 policies. In 2019, Charountaki was invited to the Foreign and Commonwealth Office to
 participate in a workshop for the UK’s next Consul General to Erbil.
 Key research user: non-governmental organisations
 In addition to direct engagement with policymakers in parliament and government a number of
 researchers within this UoA have built fruitful connections with NGOs and other civil society
 bodies as a means of influencing debate and by extension policy in a number of
 areas. Charountaki is a member of the academic committee of the International Institute for the
 Study of Kurdish Societies (IISKS), through which she has taken part in a fact-finding mission to
 the Kurdistan region of Iraq and co-organised a workshop at the Lebanese French University in
 Erbil. Isaacs works annually with the US NGO Freedom in the World as a country expert for
 Turkmenistan and Kazakhstan where he writes the yearly reports on developments in relation to
 political rights and civil liberties in both countries. H. Bochel and Defty’s research on reform of
 intelligence oversight in the UK has been used by a number of NGOs, including Rights Watch
 UK, Privacy International and Liberty.
 Key research user: the media

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 There has been considerable demand for comment from the local media in the period leading up
 to and following the EU referendum as well as the 2015, 2017 and 2019 general elections. Staff
 in this UoA have made numerous contributions to discussions on national
 and regional television and radio, written columns in the local press and participated in panel
 discussions in public and on TV. While much of this engagement is in response to requests for
 comments on current events, the University Press Office also works with staff to draft and
 distribute press releases to accompany research projects and provides media training.
 Research generated in this UoA has been featured in a diverse range of media outlets. For
 example, Cowen was interviewed by Sky News in 2020 providing a criminological perspective on
 the Covid-19 restrictions. In 2018 Defty was interviewed on the BBC Sunday Politics in relation
 to his research on the ‘Big Society’. McKay’s work with Marriage Foundation has featured on the
 front pages and received widespread coverage in the national press, particularly in
 the The Times, Sunday Times and Daily Mail. Defty’s research on the intelligence services has
 featured in a wide range of outlets including The Sunday Times, Daily Mail, New York
 Times, Middle East Eye and Deutsche Welle.
 Contributions to the research base and academic citizenship:
 In addition to engagement with research users, staff within this UoA make significant
 contributions to their discipline through external examining, peer-review of books, journal
 articles and funding applications, and through their membership of professional bodies.
      • Professor Jacqui Briggs made a significant contribution to teaching and research in
          politics at Lincoln and beyond. She was the University of Lincoln’s first Chair in Teaching
          and Learning. She was Vice-Chair of the Political Studies Association
          from 2011 and in 2014 was invited to be a member of the Quality Assurance Agency
          (QAA) Benchmarking Review group which revised the benchmarking statement for
          politics and international relations. Her contribution to the wider discipline was
          recorded in substantive obituaries in European Political Science and PS: Political
          Science & Politics.
      • The School has a long tradition of teaching what we research and researching what, and
          how, we teach. In addition to research outputs staff contribute to their discipline by
          writing, editing and contributing to major textbooks as well as publishing pedagogic
          research. Several staff have written or co-edited textbooks including Briggs, Doing
          Politics (Routledge, 2015); Bochel (co-editor), Making and Implementing Public
          Policy (Macmillan, 2018) and Isaacs (co-editor) Politics: an introduction (3rd ed.
          Routledge, 2018). Defty and Bennister both co-authored chapters in Exploring
          Parliament (OUP, 2018), a major new textbook which emerged out of the Parliamentary
          Studies module. Bacon’s article, ‘Teaching applied politics: From employability to political
          imaginary’ won the PSA Jacqui Briggs prize for the best article on learning and teaching
          published in Politics in 2018-2019.
      • Staff also support the wider discipline as external examiners for programmes at other
          institutions, through examining PhD theses and reviewing funding applications. In the
          current REF period staff from this UoA have acted as external examiners
          at the University of Bath (McKay), University of East Anglia (Isaacs), University College
          London (Bacon), the London School of Economics (McKay), Open University
          (Langlois), Oxford University (Bacon), University of Wolverhampton (Bennister) and the
          University of York (Bochel). Staff have also acted as external examiners for PhDs at the
          universities of Birmingham, Dublin City, Kent, Leeds, Tallinn, and York. Bennister
          and McKay are members of the ESRC Peer Review College. As a former Fulbright
          scholar, reviewing applications to the US-UK Fulbright Commission is an important part
          of Slaven’s academic citizenship. Slaven and Defty have also reviewed grant
          applications for the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada.
      • Staff from this UoA are editors and members of the editorial board of a number of
          journals. Briggs was co-editor of European Political Science from 2009-2015. Bochel was
          co-editor of Social Policy and Society from 2010 to 2015. McKay was an editor
          of Benefits: The Journal of Poverty & Social Justice from 2011 to
          2014. Isaacs currently edits Central Asian Survey. Staff are editorial board members of a
          diverse range of journals: Humanities and Social Sciences Communications,
          (Langlois); Intelligence and National Security (Defty); Journal of Middle Eastern

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Research (Charountaki); Religion, State and Society (Bacon); Studies in Transition
        States and Societies (Isaacs); Social Policy & Administration (McKay); Societies (Kisby).
    •   Staff have reviewed textbooks and monographs for a range of publishers
        including Bloomsbury, Oxford University Press, Palgrave, Polity and Routledge, and
        provide peer-reviews of articles submitted to a wide range of journals including British
        Journal of Middle Eastern Studies, British Journal of Politics and International
        Relations, Cold War History, Critical Studies on Terrorism, Democratization, European
        Security, Europe-Asia Studies, Government and Opposition, Intelligence and National
        Security, Journal of Refugee Studies, Millennium, Nations and
        Nationalism, Parliamentary Affairs, Political Studies, and Social Policy & Administration.
    •   Research networks and collaborations are fostered through membership of professional
        bodies and research groups including the British International Studies Association
        working groups on Foreign Policy (Charountaki) and Gendering International Relations
        (Obendorf); Political Studies Association specialist groups on Parliaments (Bennister,
        Bochel, Defty, McKay), Political Leadership (Bennister), Security and Intelligence (Defty)
        and Young People’s Politics (Defty, Kisby); the Association for the Study of Nationalities
        (Isaacs); Central Eurasian Studies Society (Isaacs); Social Policy Association (Bochel,
        McKay); and the Study of Parliament Group (Bennister, Bochel, Defty). Notable
        contributions include: Bennister who is convenor of the PSA specialist Group on Political
        leadership and co-convenor of the ECPR Standing Group on Elites and Political
        Leadership; Charountaki who is Convenor of the BISA Foreign Policy Working Group
        and a trustee of the British Society for Middle Eastern Studies; Obendorf is a fellow of the
        Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland; and Kisby was co-founder with
        James Sloam, Jacqui Briggs and Emily Rainsford of the PSA Young People’s Politics
        specialist group and co-convenor from 2013 to 2018.
    •   The School has also hosted a number of visiting scholars in the current REF period.
        Dr Shixia Li visited the School from the Hubei Provincial Administration Institute on a
        Chinese Government Scholarship from February 2020 to February 2021, to research UK
        government and public policy. Mahmoud Khalifa, who visited us as a PGR student during
        the last REF period, is now a visiting fellow and gave a number of conference papers
        with one of our PGR students (Olanrewaju), and in 2014/15 we hosted Fabio
        de Oliviera Almeida, a PGR student from Brazil.
    •   Researchers in this UoA have been invited to speak about their research at a range of
        institutions in the UK and beyond. Notable examples
        include, Bennister who was invited to speak about political leadership at Yale and the
        University of Southern California at Berkeley in 2018. Cowen was invited to speak on the
        implications of Coronavirus for the criminal justice system in a webinar for the Institute for
        Economic Affairs in May 2020. In 2016, Kisby was invited to deliver the keynote lecture
        at the 12th Annual CitizED International Conference ‘Citizenship and Character:
        Clarifying Characterisations and Exploring Collaboration’, at the University of
        Birmingham. Obendorf delivered a keynote lecture on the Singapore Girl at an event at
        the Substation in Singapore in 2018. In November 2018, Dr David Hughes hosted a
        public event, as part of the ESRC Social Science Festival, on ‘Scrutinizing the Media:
        Fake News, Censorship, and War.’ Slaven was invited to participate in two IPPR
        roundtables on migration after Brexit (June 2018) and on reforming the hostile
        environment (October 2020).




                                                                                              Page 12
