Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



Institution: University of Lincoln

Unit of assessment: 20 Social Work and Social Policy



Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
    a) Context and structure
The University of Lincoln is a medium-sized Civic University with a balanced academic teaching
and research mission, and an emphasis on engagement from local to global levels. The University
consists of 4 ‘Colleges’ with each divided into a number of Schools, 6 in the College of Social
Science. The University also features the Lincoln Institute for Advanced Studies (LIAS) which co-
ordinates a number of programmes, including visiting fellowships for distinguished scholars,.

This submission relates to: (a) social policy, sociology and criminology staff in the School of
Social & Political Sciences (SSPS), and (b) social work staff from the School of Health &
Social Care (SHSC). The diagram illustrates the structure:

                                                    Social & Political       UoA19 Politics
                                                        Sciences
   University of         College of Social                                   UoA 20 Social Work
                                                      -----------------
     Lincoln             Science (1 of 4)                                    & Social Policy
                                                     Health & Social
                                                           Care
                                                                             UoA 3 Allied Health



Within the College a ‘low walls’ culture is encouraged and enabled, which leads to many
collaborative events and research activities between the Schools, as set out in detail through the
course of this statement. The College of Social Science also includes the Schools of Education,
Law, Psychology, and Sport & Exercise Science.

The University of Lincoln is a long-established site for the study of social work and social policy, in
addition to criminology and more recently sociology. A key feature of the unit is an emphasis on
collegiality and citizenship, alongside the drive for improved research productivity. These provide a
foundation for our interdisciplinary work – as the composition suggests, the unit is very positive
about multi- and inter-disciplinary work in tackling research issues. It remains dedicated to
researching these fields of study. It has a sizeable and growing staff complement submitted to this
unit (11.2 FTE in 2014, now 15.8, or more than 40% larger), and three-quarters of the staff are
female, including two-thirds of the professors.

The Schools attract and retain researchers with strong publication and funding track records, which
we aim to enhance. Two colleagues are former Leverhulme Trust Fellows (Tarrant, Varriale),
with Ralph-Morrow starting in 2021. Several have had ESRC/UKRI funding in the current REF
period, or grants from leading social policy research funders such as the Joseph Rowntree


                                                1
Foundation and the Nuffield Foundation, with significant research projects starting as the REF
period was ending. In 2019 Tarrant was awarded a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship for her
qualitative research with young fathers (‘following young fathers further’); a tremendous
achievement for any institution, with a budget exceeding £2 million to be spent during 2020-24.
Jordan & Tarrant work on a large-scale Nuffield foundation project ‘Breadwinning Mums,
Caregiving Dads: Transforming Gender in Work and Childcare?’(£173,510). Anitha has Nuffield
funding for work on forced marriage (£121,178). Jordan is co-I for ‘Suicide in/as Politics’ funded by
a Leverhulme Trust Project Grant (2020-23) led by our former colleague Dr Amy Chandler who
moved to Edinburgh (£356,477 total).

Research topics in this unit include: poverty, health, community relationships and wellbeing, crime
and policing, central and local government, equalities, gender-based violence. It dovetails with the
University’s mission to engage widely with the public and contribute to social, economic and cultural
life, with an increasing focus on the implications of a rural and coastal setting for issues of
development, growth and infrastructure.

Since the last REF, sociology has been developed as a major discipline within the unit, and
this submission therefore includes work in sociology as well as in social work, social policy and
criminology. Two new Professors in Sociology signal our commitment to that discipline – Hillyard,
Karner – whilst another new Chair is in ‘Social Policy and Sociology’ (Powell). These new posts
strengthen the University’s expertise in analysis of rurality, links between politics and sociology, and
research on equality and diversity. Our criminological presence has significantly increased,
symbolised by the 2019 British Society of Criminology’s annual conference being held on campus.
Plus Ray was appointed as Professor of Health and Social Care, with emphasis on leading
gerontological research.

The ParliLinc grouping (ParliLinc – The Lincoln Parliamentary Research Group:
https://parlilinc.blogs.lincoln.ac.uk/) brings together our research and impact ambitions around
engaging with legislatures. Other members of staff are part of the Community and Health Research
Unit (CaHRU) – now a University Centre – and the Healthy Ageing Research Group (HARG), led
by Ray, which draws members from within the College and the wider University community e.g.
Architecture. Several members of staff have interests in health as an outcome, and this is
increasingly enhanced through the new Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health (directed by
Prof Frank Tanser). This provides an interdisciplinary hub for cross-University research in health,
with thematic emphases on rurality, public health, diabetes, drug development and imaging. There
are also groupings focused on families, and on policy towards terrorism.

There is also wider university funding. This supported the ‘Stand Together’ action research project
(£47k), which was one of the first bystander intervention programmes designed to challenge
gender-based violence in a UK university, led by Anitha and Jordan. Outputs include a chapter the
edited collection: Gender-based violence in university communities: Policy, prevention and
educational interventions, Policy Press, and we assisted in the development of new university
policies. Specific college support for research projects appears in 3(a), below.

    b) Achievement of Research Strategy
The 2014 REF Environment template identified our research strategy, which was to:


                                                2
   •   continually strengthen its research groups;
   •   enhance research quality, including through its staffing strategy;
   •   further increase and strengthen internal and external collaboration;
   •   deepen involvement with research users and enhance their impact on research and
       policymaking;
   •   further increase the number and proportion of research-active staff;
   •   increase the number of research student registrations and higher degree completions;
   •   grow research income.

A director of research for each School, plus two deputy directors in SSPS (broadly covering outputs
and funding proposals respectively), brings together expertise and oversees this process.

Below we examine how we have met each of these aims.

Research groups

A rationalisation and re-consideration of research groups was made in the light of the last REF, and
feedback from the REF sub-panel, plus a wider University review. We established the Lincoln
Parliamentary Research Centre (ParliLinc) to drive research and impact in SSPS. The Centre was
established with University support in 2020 and emerged out of an existing parliamentary studies
research group within the School. The Centre has been instrumental in building links between the
University and legislatures across the UK and beyond, including through an academic fellowship at
the Scottish Parliament (Bochel). A research group was also established in terrorism studies
(Skoczylis, White) to reflect existing research within the School. Several staff work on issues of
family (Anitha, Bond-Taylor, Jordan, Tarrant) with UKRI and Nuffield projects driving growth in their
area (including four new Research Fellows by 2020).

Research quality

Researchers are provided with protected time to produce on high-quality outputs. A scheme of
research sabbaticals ensures that 2-6 staff each year receive research leave. Every six months, if
not more frequently, writing retreats take place. These which have enabled focussed work on
completing publications and writing research bids.

Annual meetings between staff and research director(s) enable reflection on individuals’ research
progress, and identify any support needed. This helps ensure staff are setting ambitious but
achievable targets, and to identify needs for continuing professional development. This is in
addition to mentoring arrangements, with many staff participating in formal and informal mentoring
schemes at all career levels.

Strengthen collaboration

This remains a priority, with progress outlined in 4a below.

Deepen impact

This is explained in 1c, below.




                                                3
Increase number and proportion of research active staff

Since 2014 the number of research active staff in the unit has risen considerably (from 11 to 16),
against a background of wider growth with many new appointments across the Schools including
three new chairs in Sociology. Submitted numbers in our sister unit, Politics and International
Studies, also rose from 7.3 to 13.6 FTE staff.

Higher degree registrations and completions

The number of doctoral completions has increased substantially from 3 in the last REF period, to 8
to date, with more rapid growth in students from 4 enrolled in 2013 to 15 in 2020 indicating the
rising trend in our doctoral recruitment. The University has fully funded 5 PhD studentships in SSPS
(3 supervised by staff in this unit) and a further 3 in SHSC (1 supervised in this unit, Kane).

Grow research income

The mechanisms for helping with research grants have seen grant income increase
substantially, rising by a factor of more than six – from £225,000 in the last REF period to more
than £1.4 million in the current REF period, against a background of austerity in much social policy
funding, particularly central and local government funding.




    c) Achievement of Impact Strategy
Achieving the impact strategy has been assisted by the provision of dedicated funds, at both
College and University level, to support activities based on ongoing research. We consider such
impact at the outset of projects, with extra funding to support fresh activities as the opportunities
arise.

Our impact case studies for the current REF cycle demonstrate our expertise in linking research
with policy. One covers engagement with Parliaments (Bochel), the other concerns changes in the
legal approach to violence against women and girls (Anitha). The process of active engagement
between Lincoln researchers and parliaments in the UK – particularly Westminster and Holyrood –
has been a central part of our activity since 2014 (further discussed in Section 4b). We have
supported staff with academic fellowships to attend and dedicate time to being embedded in these
institutions and subsequently extend impact. In early 2020, Paul Evans, former Clerk of
Committees and distinguished parliamentary official, was formally confirmed as Visiting Professor
in Parliamentary Studies. Five research briefings and 8 research projects are currently described
on the new and expanding ParliLinc website.

Anitha has continued her important stream of work on forced marriage and transnational
abandonment. This has influenced the legal framework in this area, as described in the impact case
study, and has been supported by grants from the Nuffield Foundation and the British Academy.
Anitha has written expert reports for court cases on issues relating to domestic violence and dowry,
the foundation of one of our impact case studies.

Other impacts in this unit range from public discourse to informing the legal system. For example,
Drs Bond-Taylor and Tarrant have recently won a BBC Ruby Award for best Sunday Politics
programme, for items which featured the former’s work on child-friendly cities. Colosi gave expert

                                                 4
evidence in the Spearmint Rhino licensing case to Sheffield City Council in 2019, assisting their
case for continuing to trade as an adult entertainment venue following complaints based on covert
filming earlier in the year.

Within the UoA, and the University generally, staff are actively involved in the University’s PEARL
initiative (Public Engagement for All with Research at Lincoln). Staff were also part of the
‘Euro lights’ programme of outside talks, and the Schools have featured in the ESRC festival of
social science, and British Society of Gerontology Averil Osborn flagship symposium focusing on
participatory methods in research (Ray).




    d) Research Strategy for the next five years
The University’s research strategy emphasizes a commitment to producing “purposeful research
with impact.” Other key aims are to respect academic freedom and value the kind of serendipitous
discovery that comes from academic freedom to purse research interests. In doing this it follows a
“local to global” principle of prioritising research that is of relevance to our locality and that has
global significance, driving economic development and enhancing social and cultural life within and
beyond our immediate community. Our vision for this UoA is therefore one of effective
interdisciplinary working to address social and political challenges within this context.

The Schools continue to grow staff and student numbers and to extend their academic portfolios:
SSPS has added sociology; SHSC has increasing nursing numbers and new programmes covering
paramedic science, OT and physiotherapy. Further appointments are being made, in criminology in
particular, to support developing work with the local Police. The University and College have
supported growing the quality and size of this unit, which retains a very strong staff research culture
linked to ambitions in policy development.

This UoA takes a critical theoretical approach focused on both basic and applied research. Its aim
is to enhance the value of the Unit in terms of the significance of its research outputs and the reach
and significance of its impact on the world. This will continue to be achieved by:

•       increasing the number of research-active staff through further growth;
•       increasing the number of research student registrations and higher degree completions,
        including through drawing on a wider range of disciplines to supervise in a wider range of
        areas;
•       growing research income, as we have done, despite the difficult funding environment in
        public policy;
•       further strengthening research clusters, as with research in Parliaments (ParliLinc), gender
        and sexuality, and families;
•       increasing and strengthening internal and external collaboration, particularly working across
        disciplines, including with Parliament(s) and government departments;
•       deepening involvement with a wider range of research users and enhancing their impact on
        research and policy-making – a particular emphasis within SHSC’s patient participant
        group; and also a strong theme of much of the social science research within the unit (e.g.
        with older people [Ray], with young fathers [Tarrant], with service users [Kane], with families
        [Jordan]).

                                                5
    e) Impact strategy for the next five years
Overall university research impact strategy is set through the director of research impact
development (Dr Julie Bayley), whilst Dr Bochel leads on impact for SSPS and Kane/Rasell for
SHSC. Mirroring the University of Lincoln’s innovative ‘Student as Producer’ initiative, co-production
is at the heart of what we do, in research as well as in teaching. For example, Ray’s research on
ethical issues in self-funded social care was specifically devised to co-produce knowledge with
older people (funder: The Wellcome Trust), while a group, including academics from Law,
Computer Science, and this Unit, meet every few months to review work with the police, and a
University of Lincoln staff member provides consultancy to the Police. These formative
collaborations often lead on to research with considerable impact.

Staff have a strong understanding of impact, gained by relevant contributions from internal and
external events dedicated to research impact in general, and the specific forms of impact prized by
REF, by the research councils and by many other funders. Our strategy has a number of elements.
They include designing in impact activities for relevant projects, recognising the importance of co-
production of research in many of our research areas, and seeking collaborations which hold the
potential for generating impact.

Our focus is explicitly on designing impact into each project from the start, where possible, with a
view to making a difference to policy and practice that is clearly evidenced, and, where possible,
making and enhancing impact by involving potential users throughout the research process.
Impact-related activities are normally built into each study at the point when a bid for research
funding or support is made (whether internally or externally), and then kept as a key focus point
during the research process: potential impacts are identified early, then communicated, discussed,
developed and co-produced with the relevant stakeholders.

The University, College and Schools all make available funds to support and advance impact
related activities including the costs of supporting Parliamentary research fellows such as Bochel
(at Holyrood).




    f) Approach to interdisciplinary research
The UoA is highly interdisciplinary in itself, including staff researching criminology and sociology in
addition to social work and social policy. The majority of submitted staff are located within a broader
School of Social & Political Sciences (submitting to both this unit and to UoA19, Politics and
International studies). Social work academics are within a School of Health and Social Care, with
relevant staff submitting to UoA3 (Allied Health Professions). In addition to our core disciplines,
staff have backgrounds ranging from demography (Hilevych) to history (Shave) to anthropology
(Kane) to Social Work (Ray), among others, informing their research approaches.

Beyond these links, the Unit contains a number of interdisciplinary research clusters in
collaboration with academics from Politics and International Studies (UoA 19). These include
Cowen (sex work, joint with Colosi), and Bochel, Defty (with Bochel, on Parliaments). There are


                                                6
also links and joint working with other Schools, e.g. Law (with Hall on policing and green
criminology), and joint supervision of research students. Members of the UoA are also active
members of the interdisciplinary and university-wide Rural Research Group (led by School of
Geography), a theme of increasing salience within the University, and of course beyond. A Gender
and Sexuality Reading Group (led by Jordan) highlights another forum for interdisciplinary
discussion, including on gender and violence.

Colloquia take place mostly on a fortnightly basis, from across the range of disciplines represented
from within our school. An annual research showcase draws on work across the College, and
represents a large event both celebrating our research achievements and ensuring wider coverage
of research into other disciplines. All of this promotes opportunities for developing research
collaborations and partnerships across the Schools constituting the College of Social Science.




    g) Progress towards open research
The University is committed to open data as a partner in the JISC-funded open research project
and a signatory to the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA, see
institutional environment statement). The University policy for Research Data Management
developed in May 2018, supports academics to publish data as openly as possible in line with the
institutional Code of Practice for Research and reflecting University Open Access and Research
Ethics Policies. The policy supports UKRI common principles on data policy and best practice for
storage and sharing of data. adhering to the RCUK Data Sharing Policy and including a 3-year
review cycle to account for evolving practices, legislation, and ensuring suitability of curation and
applicability of management resources. The University Research Data Management Working
Group (including McKay), supports academics in this UoA to follow institutional policy on open
research, advocating open access publication of research data for other researchers to use within
research ethics and governance approvals

The University’s Lincoln Research Repository (see Institutional Environment Statement) provides a
publicly available resource to store research and other outputs. Staff are encouraged to upload all
outputs, including abstracts and external presentations, which provides a full record of the variety of
research activity conducted within the School. The Repository provides efficiency in the ability to,
for example: generate reports on research activity; pre-populate forms for individualised staff
monitoring through the annual Individual Research Plan process (see section 2a); and provides
supporting evidence of research activity to meet eligibility criteria for internal funding opportunities.
The repository is also used to store accompanying material so that raw data, detailed analysis and
computer code are made publicly available. All staff are identified through an Open Researcher and
Contributor Identification (ORCID) which is also beneficial for raising the profile of the researcher
through external identification of their work.

In addition to 100% compliance with open access requirements for outputs in this submission,
academic staff include some who are leading exponents of the University’s commitments to
arrangements for Open Access to research data. Tarrant brings expertise in the archiving of
qualitative data from her time working in secondary qualitative longitudinal data with TimeScapes
(Leeds), which continues with her UKRI Future Leaders funding. In the School of Social & Political


                                                 7
Sciences, McKay shares data and code on his Open Science Framework website, started August
2017, including data on the pay of Vice-chancellors. Jointly with Birmingham, on the same site he
made available a research archive relating to the “UK House of Commons Select Committee Data
Archive”. This has been downloaded 17 times, and is used for research and teaching in the sector.




   h) Research integrity
The University’s Code of Practice for Research and subsidiary policies provide an integrated policy
and procedural framework for research (see the institutional environment statement). We are
signatory to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity, which is fully embedded in our policies
and procedures, including our UKRIO Research Misconduct procedure. In 2018 we introduced a
new on-line research ethics system, which supports efficient centralised review and monitoring of
ethics applications. Staff have access to training in issues connected to research misconduct, some
of which are mandatory courses, which is governed by the University’s application of the UKRIO
Procedure for the Investigation of Misconduct of Research. The University publishes an annual
Misconduct Statement.

As might be expected from our range of disciplines and outlook, each School has an active ethics
committee. PGR and staff projects are handled by the University Ethics Committee with a
responsive online system. Desk-based research is based largely on self-assessment with research
using human subjects requiring a fuller ethics submission and evaluation by at least two
academics, one of whom is outside of the School. Staff can secure ethical approval for their work
prior to research submission. Several academics are members of the University ethics group of
reviewers. In addition to upholding requisite ethical standards, the new procedures are also aimed
at producing better and more structured advice on meeting ethical standards, whilst helping to
lower the load on reviewers, and to process ethics applications more rapidly to avoid any undue
delays in proposals being submitted or successful research projects commencing.

Ethics and research integrity are standing items on the Schools’ Research Committees, which
oversee research in the Unit. Each School Director of Research and the Research and Enterprise
team ensure that all grant applications from members of the UoA are in line with the legal and
ethical requirements of the award-making body, including proper governance and transparency.
PGR students and their supervisors review ethical aspects of students’ research every year as part
of an annual monitoring review.




                                              8
Section 2. People

   a) Staffing strategy
Strategic investment by the University has considerably expanded the research base in the
Schools. In order to achieve its ambitions related to research (outlined in Section 1 above) the
Schools represented in this Unit have since 2014 pursued a policy of recruiting research-active
staff. As mentioned above, this submission has grown from 11.2 to 15.8 FTE staff (from 12 to 16
individuals). Three staff are retained from the 2014 REF submission (Anitha, Bochel, Colosi), with
most of the remainder newly appointed in the current REF period.

There have been retirements, including two Professors (Neary, Somerville). However, we have
replaced at all levels, including four new full-time professorial appointments (Hillyard, Karner,
Powell, Ray). There has also been an internal promotion to professor (director of research,
Anitha) and another to associate professor (Tarrant).

Underpinning the above recruitment has been the goal to expand research strength, diversify our
subject specialisms particularly into sociology, and attract scholars with an outward facing,
interdisciplinary approach to their research. The strategy has also been driven by the twin aims of,
i) expanding our portfolio of good quality research (supporting and developing early career
researchers) whilst at the same time, ii) expanding our senior staff contingent to provide leadership
and mentoring for our wider research community, as well as delivering on major research and
impact goals themselves. Doing so has allowed us to achieve many of the successes outlined
elsewhere in this statement (see section 1b in particular) and has allowed us to expand our PGR
capacity attracting students to well-published academics with extensive experience of PhD
completions, in turn feeding through to a larger body of PGR students.

Over the next few years we anticipate building further upon our strengths, with a relatively stable
workforce delivering on their existing or developing programmes of work.




   b) Staff development
The processes of research development are supported by staff development processes which
emphasise the professional development of academic staff. One key feature is a system of
research leave (‘sabbaticals’) at School level which enables several academics to take a period
of research leave of a term’s duration annually, and, since 2015, between 2 and 6 staff have taken
such leave in each academic year.

Financial support is made available for staff attending conferences, with most people attending, at a
minimum, their key professional association’s annual event if they wish to do so with School
funding to do so.

Another important feature is mentoring schemes designed to assist the careers of less experienced
researchers and academics by the leadership of more experienced ones, or of peers for the most
senior staff. The School’s scheme was designed by current staff, to add value to the other formal


                                                9
mentoring schemes at College level, and a further one overseen by the Eleanor Glanville Centre
(an interdisciplinary centre for inclusion, diversity and equality at the University) at an institutional
level. Staff may opt for any of these schemes.

There are regular programmes of seminars and colloquia at School and College level, with
Lincoln’s Institute for Advanced Studies providing an open lecture programme of distinguished
researchers, attended by substantial numbers of people from inside and outside the University. At
School level seminars run every fortnight during teaching terms, with a mix of internal and external
presenters.

In the last few years we have conducted structured writing retreats lasting two days, generally
taking place twice a year off-campus with trained facilitators. These are used for completing
articles, as well as taking forward ideas about future research proposals.

Most forms of staff support are extended to doctoral students, and we say more about their support
in the relevant section, below (2c).

Other important elements of our support include:

•       Early-career networks aiming to spread best practice across the College of Social
Science, including specific away days for early career researchers.
•       An annual research away day dedicated to research-enhancing activities, e.g. getting
published, writing research bids, peer review, achieving impact
•       Funding from the College, which has a competitive research fund programme, for a
variety of activities to develop research and increase impact, e.g. writing research bids, developing
interdisciplinary working and partnerships, facilitating stakeholder and public engagement, and an
annual ‘showcase’ event.

Whilst we wish to retain as many excellent researchers as we can, through offering strong research
facilities and the opportunity to develop, an element of staff turnover is also good for the sector and
for our own renewal. A sign of the increasing reputation of our unit is that staff usually leave for
highly respected universities in the social sciences, such as Edinburgh (Amy Chandler), Kent (Tina
Haux), Leeds (Andrew Wallace), Newcastle (Jan Dobbernack), Nottingham (James Heydon) and
Stirling (Karen Windle, as chair).

Overall, this unit has produced stronger research but has retained its distinctive and (we think)
attractive features of collegiality, mutual support, and research stretching from local to global levels.
We continue to regard our teaching roles as important, and to serve the local community both in
terms of academic access and research, particularly on the often-neglected theme of rurality. We
have made senior (and other) appointments from outside, but we have also promoted from within,
including to Professor and to Associate Professor. Two School promotions (one in this unit, Tarrant)
to Associate Professor were made to academics then taking maternity leave, affirming our positive
treatment of parenthood in practice.




                                                  10
   c) Support for PGR students
Over the REF period, PGRs within this UoA have studied a wide variety of topics aligned with the
UoA’s main research interests. Whilst there were only 3 doctoral completions in the previous REF
period, this expanded to 8 in the most recent REF window, with 15 enrolments in 2020.

The administrative and regulatory framework is set at the University level, with many operations
devolved to the College of Social Science. The School’s approach therefore fits within those
frameworks, and we emphasise the practical aspects of our approach, and the ways in which the
Schools go beyond the levels of support expected in the University.

A senior member of staff acts as the lead for postgraduate matters in each School (Bochel, Kane).
All PGR students have at least two research active supervisors, often three, one of whom must
have past PhD completions. Moreover, all supervisors must receive relevant training every 4
years. ECRs, and others lacking PhD completions through past shorter-term appointments, are
actively encouraged to jointly supervise alongside more experienced colleagues. To help promote
and access the progress being made by doctoral students, PGR students maintain monthly
records of supervision and research progress. Student progress and skills development is also
monitored on an annual basis, through a University-based system of Training Needs Analysis and
an Annual Monitoring Review form, checking on annual progress. At the end of the first year (for
full-time students) a rigorous upgrade evaluation (from MPhil to PhD registration) takes place and
involves a form of mini-viva, with a lead role played by an independent chair from another part of
the University. Whilst challenging, it does help to ensure that sufficient progress is being made to
achieve the final dissertation being submitted to the expected timescale, and the experience is
often valued by students.

Doctoral researchers/students are first and foremost members of the University’s Doctoral School,
which offers research education and career development programmes and a support network, as
well as championing the interest of research students across the University. Doctoral students have
a representative who attends the regular PGR meetings held within each School to monitor
progress and identify any particular issues that need to be addressed.

Research students have the same access as academic staff to institutional forms of support, such
as IT, funding for external research training and expenses, staff development, conference
attendance, etc. The Schools provide hot-desking facilities for all postgraduate research students in
specified offices, only made available to PGRs. In accordance with the University’s Student
Engagement Strategy, research students play a full part in the life of the unit, being represented at
School and College committee meetings, and are expected not only to attend seminars and
colloquia but also to present their work to at least one colloquium or external conference each year
during the period of their studies.

The College’s ambitions towards a critical mass of PGRs is underpinned by funding made available
to fund full-time PhDs for excellent candidates. During the current REF period the College has
supported one or sometimes two fully funded doctoral studentships most years within each School.
Research students also have opportunities to publish, including through the journal established at
the University of Lincoln for research concerning education, the journal ‘IMPact’.




                                              11
    d) Supporting equality and diversity
Of the 16 staff in this submission, 12 (75%) are female and 25% male. This applies at all levels,
with 4 of the 6 professors (67%) being female. Doctoral students have been 60% female, 14%
BAME, and 30% have declared a disability.

Research on equality and diversity, and research on achieving better outcomes, is a key feature of
the unit – and we can justly claim to have influenced policies in the University, particularly the new
university of Lincoln policy on gender-based violence. Moreover, we have actively promoted
development of a carer/parent forum at the University and Ray is co-chair (unpaid/family carers).

We believe that diverse viewpoints are needed for the best research environment, and staff actively
research equality and diversity issues. SSPS runs an MA in Gender Studies (established in 2018),
and several staff are active members of the Eleanor Glanville Centre, a university-wide resource
devoted to more inclusive gender practices in research and teaching. It runs the ESPRC ASPIRE
programme (Advanced Strategic Platform for Inclusive Research Environments), dedicated to more
inclusive research environments within STEM subjects, and in particular towards effective
supporting policy intervention. White is a Research Associate with Manchester’s ESRC funded
Centre on the Dynamics of Ethnicity, working on a project around minoritized people’s
experiences of police violence and the role of health narratives in deaths following police contact.

This strong domain/research understanding is supported by demonstrable measures to fostering
equality and diversity in the workplace. We support flexible working for individuals, with routine use
of working from home (even pre-COVID) and part-time working, expanding options for those with
childcare or other family responsibilities, or wanting to reduce hours in the run-up to retirement.

We regularly discuss issues of well-being in the relevant fora, such as regular all-staff meetings, to
discuss what kinds of ameliorative measures may be put in place (particularly regarding
workloading and expectations). We have had several periods of maternity and paternity leave
during this current REF period and appropriately managed the transition back into research. Tarrant
was promoted whilst on maternity leave. There have been two periods of paternity leave during the
REF period.

Staff are required to take a variety of training both as part of induction and CPD. For example, staff
must undertake training on equality and diversity as part of their induction, and on related matters
such as unconscious bias. Similarly, there is a variety of other compulsory training for new staff, for
example on stress (as part of health and safety) and on effective and tutoring. All new staff, at all
levels, are assigned mentors (and all other staff may request them) to ease any academic
difficulties.

The University has rolled out revised demographic data collection that includes, as a simple but
illustrative example, the option to record a non-binary response to gender questions.




                                                12
Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
    a) Research income
This Unit has used the support and facilities outlined above to obtain major grants in its long-
standing and developing areas of strength, and to expand both the fields in which it wins research
income and the range of award-making bodies from which it receives funds. Over the period of the
two recent REFs there has been a remarkable increase in research income within this Unit, from
£225,000 in the last REF period to £1,435,089 in the current REF period – in other words a 538%
increase in external grant income – with several larger grants (UKRI future leaders fellowship
generating £2m+; Leverhulme grant over £300,000) only coming on stream in 2020 and hence
barely included in this overall figure. This success reflects the fact that from 2013-20 the Unit made
some 85 bids for research funding and secured awards with a 31% success rate.

Research income has been secured from a wide variety of sources of funding: research councils
(e.g. ESRC/UKRI), British Academy, government departments, non-departmental government
bodies, local authorities, health authorities, police authorities, local partnerships, charitable
foundations (including Joseph Rowntree Foundation, Leverhulme Trust, Nuffield Foundation,
Dunhill Medical Trust), and voluntary and community groups, using a variety of methods:
competitive tenders, proposals to external funding organisations, and invitations from local and
regional organisations. These successes are a reflection of the growing level of research activity in
the School, the improved support being made available to staff, and the strong orientations towards
external research grant capture to facilitate empirical research.

The College provides institutional support for research activities through the College Research
Office, distributes regular funding for doctoral studentships, and awards grants of up to £5,000 with
a college research fund. This has supported 13 colleagues, providing start-up funds to help
generate larger projects (4 in S&PS, 9 in H&SC). Examples in 2018-19 include projects looking at
“Reducing Barriers to Fan Ownership of Football Clubs in England” (linked to co-operative
organisational structures) and on “Online extremism and the Life-course”.

Staff have also sometimes won awards where the income is in kind, but often very valuable. This
includes Bochel’s Academic Fellow role at the Scottish Parliament, looking at the extent of diversity
among witnesses that appear before the Parliament’s committees. Such activities can facilitate
access, enable new research, generate reports and other outputs, and lead to significant impacts.

Our improved income also reflects the appointment of both able ECRS and more senior and
experienced staff, who have demonstrated that Lincoln has the kind of facilities and research
backup for research at all kinds of scale (detailed elsewhere including a UKRI Future Leaders
Fellowship and success with British Academy, Nuffield, Leverhulme and Wellcome).

Members of the unit work closely with the College Research Officers and Business Development
Managers to help identify opportunities for funding and collaborations to develop grant applications.
This ensures a coordinated approach. The Schools also enjoy mutually beneficial relationships with
local and regional organisations and communities that is reflected in diverse income streams,




                                               13
including Lincolnshire County Council and the City of Lincoln Council, evidenced in regular
consultations and collaborations on research projects, as well as student internships.

Seminars on grant-writing have also been a strong feature of training provision from the College
Research Office, with strong participation from within this Unit. A formal peer review scheme has
been established within the College of Social Science, requiring research proposals to be ready
well ahead of deadlines to permit review by one expert and one lay reviewer. This allows sufficient
time for corrections to be made to enhance the chances of submitting the best possible proposals.
As outlined under ‘Research integrity’ we take ethical issues very seriously, and have support
available for those undergoing the process of ethical review which is centralised with an efficient
and generally rapid turnaround online system.

    b) Infrastructure and facilities
The Schools sit within the College of Social Science. Each College has a Director of Research with
dedicated administrative support, to lead and encourage a strong research culture. The College
subscribes to core research databases (e.g. UKRO, ResearchProfessional) and the College
Research Office collates and distributes information on funding opportunities. The College also
offers specialist support on developing websites, including to help with dissemination and impact,
and with developing impact in general.

The College Research Office also provides support to academic staff in bid development,
including costing, editing and managing online submissions, and facilitates cross-college meetings
around specific programme areas via institutes such as the Lincoln Institute for Advanced Studies
(LIAS). The College also plays a key role in enhancing research quality. For example, it administers
the College Research Fund, and a Peer Review Group, comprising senior academics with a track
record of attracting external funding, reviews and approves all applications for external funding prior
to submission.

For PGR students, the University’s Doctoral School provides research education, career
development programmes and a support network. At UG level, the student-led Society provides its
own peer support network. All PGR students are supported to present their work at seminars, to
publish and to identify research funding – and are expected to do so on an annual basis.

Each School has a Research Ethics Committee, which reports to College and University Research
Ethics Committees. Staff research ethic applications are reviewed centrally and responsibility for
taught students remain at School-level. Staff can secure ethical approval for their work prior to
research submission.




                                               14
Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base,
economy and society

Researchers in this UoA using their expertise to contribute to society. This may be through
collaborating in research networks, engaging with stakeholders or wider audiences or making a
wider contribution through a variety of professional activities beyond core research. This wider
academic citizenship is regarded as highly valuable and supported within the UoA through
organisational, developmental and financial mechanisms. Individuals are encouraged to take up
opportunities where they exist and asked to identify areas of opportunity as part of their research
planning.


    a) Research collaborations, networks, and partnerships
All staff engage with relevant policy and practitioner bodies relevant to their research and our wider
mission. Our links with outside bodies such as the police, local authorities, House of Commons
select committees, research charities, among others are long-established. For example, regular
joint seminars are held with the local Police, including the Chief Constable of the local police force.
However, given the specialist interests and expertise of staff, we can identify two key research user
groups over this period.

Key research user: Charities and NGOs. The interests and activities of charities and NGOs fit well
with much of the work of this Unit. For example, Anitha has long-standing links, including as a trustee,
with two London-based charities (see next section), while as part of her UKRI project Tarrant has
established a new collaboration between national UK charities (including NSPCC, Coram Family
Childcare and YMCA Lincolnshire), as well as academic partners in Sweden, while White contributes to
INQUEST’s academics and researchers group. The work of Anitha and Bochel has created links with
organisations such as the Westminster Foundation for Democracy and the Commonwealth
Parliamentary Association, including with Anitha’s invitation relating to the Tunis Declaration, while
Bochel was asked to participate in a Commonwealth Partnership for Democracy/Westminster
Foundation for Democracy event: An academic round-table: “Towards better data for Sustainable
Development Goal 16: how to measure parliamentary effectiveness?” and to contribute to the CPA
Westminster Workshop on Gender Sensitive Scrutiny for commonwealth parliamentarians in WHEN?.


Key research user: Parliaments. In addition to involvement in policy development and scrutiny with
government departments and parliamentary committees, a particular strength of SSPS has been its links
with parliaments, particularly in London and Edinburgh. SSPS has had two House of Commons
Academic Fellows and one Scottish Parliament Academic Fellow in this REF period. This has allowed
people to be embedded within these institutions and have free and relatively unfettered access to key
officials and other relevant staff, with much of the work focused on the less party-political elements of
parliamentary activity. For example, Bochel has worked with the Scottish Parliament to analyse their use
of witnesses at select committees, work which he has extended using his networks, to the Westminster
Parliament and beyond. These activities have generated policy papers, academic journal articles and
impact. Our parliamentary academic fellows have also supported other staff within the School, College
and University in considering how best to feed their research into parliaments and governments.



                                                  15
We attract overseas scholars to work with us, including: Shixia Li visiting SSPS from the Hubei
Provincial Administration Institute on a Chinese Government Scholarship from February 2020 to
February 2021, to look at UK government and public policy (with Bochel). We hosted Fabio de
Oliviera Almeida, a PGR student of sociology from Brazil from September 2014 to September 2015.


    b) Relationships with users, beneficiaries & society
The School of Health and Social Care, represented within this UoA, has a well-established
participation strategy and a group of citizens actively involved in learning and teaching, and in
research. As a recent example, a Wellcome Trust Collaborative award (joint with Brighton and
Birmingham Universities, led by Ray at Lincoln) is investigating ethical issues in self-funded care for
older people, co-producing knowledge with older people. The project works with groups of older co-
researchers who participate in every aspect of the research process. Knowledge exchange
sessions between co-researchers, academic researchers and stakeholders are built into the
research process.

Prof Sundari Anitha is currently a trustee of two London-based charities: a specialist refuge for
survivors of domestic violence, Asha projects; and ATLEU (anti-trafficking and labour exploitation
unit), which provides legal representation to victims of trafficking and labour exploitation. She is
also on the editorial board of Violence Against Women and Women’s Studies International Forum,
and a member of the Academic Forum of the Runnymede Trust. Anitha has also been the
Academic Consultant for the Grunwick 40 exhibition at Brent Museum and Archives, Willesden
Green Library (19 Oct 2016-26 Mar 2017). She acted as consultant to Imkaan (a second tier
organisation providing support, advocacy and training to Black and Minority Ethnic refuges), Saheli
(a specialist refuge) and Imece Turkish Speaking Women’s Group. As a consultant for Westminster
Foundation for Democracy, she has contributed to the drafting of the Arab Convention on
Combating Violence Against Women through advising the Coalition for Women Arab MPs who are
drafting the Convention.

Increasing the esteem in which UoA members are held is important for increasing their impact. For
example, Drs Bond-Taylor and Tarrant have recently won a BBC Ruby Award for best Sunday
Politics programme, for items which featured the former’s work on child-friendly cities. Moreover, Dr
Bond-Taylor is Chair of the Steering Group for Children of Lincoln, a multi-agency Child Friendly
City initiative for Lincoln. Dr Colosi gave evidence in the Spearmint Rhino licensing case to
Sheffield City Council in 2019, assisting their case for continuing to trade following complaints
based on covert filming earlier in the year.

Staff regularly interact with the media to discuss their research. Shave appeared as an expert on In
Our Time BBC Radio Four programme on 'New Poor Laws'; recorded at Broadcasting House on
9th November, broadcast 20th December 2018. Recent appointee Dr Yuliya Hilevych spoke in 2019
to BBC Women’s Hour about the history of artificial insemination in Britain.




                                               16
    c) Wider contributions to research base (e.g. Editorships, Fellowships, prizes,
       Research Councils, Grant Committees, invited keynotes, refereeing, collaborative
       PGR supervision)
Staff are heavily involved in wider contributions to the research base and are recognised at the
highest levels. Perhaps uniquely for a unit of this size, particularly in a younger university, two of
the 16 academics from this submission are members of 2021 REF sub-panels. Bochel is part of
REF sub-panel 20 Social Work and Social Policy, having also played this role in the 2014 REF.
Anitha is a member of REF subpanel UoA 21 Sociology, also for this current 2021 REF. Bochel
was elected a Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences (AcSS), reflecting his distinction in the
fields of social and public policy over many years.

Lincoln staff are strongly represented among the key professional associations for the relevant
disciplines within the Unit. Most staff are members, and often active members, of the Social Policy
Association (SPA), the British Sociological Association (BSA) or the relevant learned body for their
discipline (e.g. British Criminological Society, British Society of Gerontology). Heydon, formerly
within the unit, was founding Chair of the British Society of Criminology’s Green Criminology
Research Network. Lisa White is a steering group member of the European Group for the Study of
Deviance and Social Control. Tarrant has been a British Sociological Association Early Career
Convenor. Shave is a fellow of the Royal Historical Society.

Reflecting the increasing research focus of our Criminology staff, Lincoln acted as the site for the
annual (2019) conference for the British Society of Criminology. This involved most of the academic
team organising the event and bringing hundreds of external academics to the campus. And of
course, the annual Social Policy Association conference has also been held here, though not in the
last REF period. These demonstrate our confidence in hosting such large-scale events and
reputation as an appropriate venue where key scholarly conversations may be had.

Staff within the Unit have also had a strong, more or less continuous representation on the editorial
boards of the key international journals and several have served as active members on the
executive of the Social Policy Association. Specific examples include editorships or memberships
of Social Policy & Society (Bochel, recent editor, Bond-Taylor on editorial board); Sociology
(Tarrant); Gender, Place and Culture (Tarrant); Women’s Studies International Forum (Anitha);
Local Population Studies (Shave); Justice, Power and Resistance (White). Kane is Editorial Board
Member for both Health Education and The Global Journal of Health Science. Dr Simone Varriale
an editorial board member for Cultural Sociology.

Ray is Co-convenor, Gerontological social work special interest group - European Social Work
Research Conference.

Peer reviewing is routine activity, but we note that Bochel is a fellow of the ESRC Peer Review
College, Hillyard, Tarrant are members. Kane’s peer reviewing record is available on the Publons
website (www.publons.com) with 28 verified reviews. Reviewing has also taken place for research
council of Hong Kong, NIHR (Ray);

Most staff undertake external examining. Some PhD examples include for LSHTM, University of
South Africa (Kane); Queensland University of Technology (Tarrant); Örebro University (Sweden)


                                                 17
(Varriale), Nottingham, Birmingham (Bochel) with Ray examining 6 PhDs/EdDs during the REF
period. UG/MA external examining is also common, including for: Bristol, Chester (Ray); Edinburgh,
Glasgow, Strathclyde, (Bochel); Brighton, Open University (White), Essex (Shave).




                                             18
