Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Aberystwyth University

 Unit of Assessment: 9: Physics

 Section 1: Unit Context and Structure, Research and Impact Strategy

 Context
 The Department of Physics provides a supportive research environment aligned with University
 and National strategies based on the principles of vitality, sustainability and inclusivity. The
 vitality of our research culture is reflected by our growth within the new organisational structure
 provided by the re-establishment in 2014 of the Physics Department (initially within the Institute
 of Maths, Physics and Computer Science, and since 2018 in the Faculty of Business and
 Physical Sciences). This co-operative environment has enabled staff to engage in leading
 research. Our structures and policies foster local and international collaboration across
 disciplines, securing competitive funding and leading to high quality publication. A structure of
 research groups and wider networks provides peer support, postgraduate training, seminar
 programmes and funding for engagement in conferences and networks that has led to
 publication of 228 papers during the REF 2021 period, with 2,595 citations and a field-weighted
 citation impact of 1.3 (SciVal). 72% of papers are published with international collaborators, 14%
 of papers are in the top 10% most cited worldwide (field-weighted), and over a third are in the
 top 10% international journals (CiteScore Percentile). Our research income has increased over
 the REF 2021 period from a yearly average of £490k in 2013-2016 to £712k in 2017-2020, an
 increase of 45% (section 3).

 Central to our sustainability strategy is co-operation. Early and-mid career researchers are
 supported through training, professional development and mentoring within our groups and
 wider research networks and the next generation of researchers are additionally supported
 through the University Graduate School and training networks. Facilities and support staff are
 shared across the Faculty, ensuring investment in state-of-the-art experimental and
 computational equipment, and the technical infrastructure to enable the development and
 upgrade of bespoke instrumentation. Space instrumentation is a particular area of investment
 that forms the core of one of our impact case studies. Our knowledge, expertise and outward-
 facing ethos has enabled collaborations with national and international academic and industrial
 partners across all our research areas, detailed in section 4. Outreach and public engagement
 are key activities in all research areas that have grown in recent years due to a co-operative
 strategy. These activities are enabled by major programmes bridging the science and arts (as
 detailed in one of our impact case studies) and providing research-inspired intervention that
 targets schools in Wales (see section 4). Engagement in wider national networks has also
 provided the framework for more effective and numerous interactions with businesses.

 The Department has an inclusive structure and culture where all staff, including those on fixed-
 term external contracts, are encouraged to participate in all aspects of the Department’s
 activities, in all its groups and committees. Changing circumstances and career stages are
 recognised through varying workload distributions, for example through targeted support for
 early career researchers and individuals returning from interruptions to research. This process
 has enabled the promotion of three early career researchers and one mid-career researcher, the
 latter progressing to a research group leader and Director of Research. Building on our leading
 role in Welsh medium Physics, our structure has facilitated a bilingual research culture where
 interaction is natural in both languages within an environment that encourages an awareness of
 local and global, societal and economic responsibilities.

 Research and Impact Strategy
 Our vision is to build an environment that encourages innovative research of international scope
 and standard that inspires the next generation of researchers, that informs and educates the
 public and policy makers, and that enables its relevance to be effectively exploited across
 disciplines and sectors. In REF 2014 we set out strategic aims in support of our vision, including
 promoting high quality research and growing income streams; supporting and training junior

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 researchers; exploiting the interdisciplinary environment; expanding international collaboration,
 and to enhance and focus our public engagement. Our progress through co-operation and
 leadership in key partnerships is summarised as follows:

       In REF 2014 we stated that we would lead projects in solar and planetary observation,
        modelling and exploration and broaden and deepen the physical understanding and
        application of materials through new instruments and computational methods and new
        collaborative projects. We have achieved this goal, evidenced by increased research
        income through UK and European funding schemes aligned with the strategic areas of
        Space and Photonics. Through our support for collaborative partnerships we have gained
        funding for major projects in each of these areas and in new areas (sections 3 and 4).

       Our research strategy has enabled the recruitment and training of early career
        researchers in key areas, and we reward researchers for using their research beyond
        academia as stated in our REF 2014 impact statement. We have made six new
        appointments to strengthen all research areas, bringing in new expertise in solar physics,
        modelling, exoplanets, energy materials, instrumentation and radio spectrum (Section 2).

       We have exceeded the proposed expansion strategy stated in REF 2014, for example to
        expand the mathematics – condensed matter physics interface; working closely with
        mathematicians and computer scientists. This has been achieved through investment in
        quantum control and a new soft matter laboratory, and, at the computer science – space
        interface, we have united robotics and photonics instrumentation in a new shared
        laboratory and workshop infrastructure (section 3). Interdisciplinary research with
        researchers in the Earth and Life sciences has been enabled through joint grants (STFC,
        UKSA), publications and shared student supervision as part of the institutional strategy to
        build research capacity (REF5a).

       We have formalised our outreach and engagement through interdisciplinary projects with
        other universities, government, national organisations and companies (section 4), having
        set out in REF 2014 to co-ordinate, enhance and focus our public engagement activities.
        Based on our research, we have attracted funding and have led projects that bridge the
        science and arts and bring our research to schools and businesses.

 Moving forward, the Department is working to a research strategy that is aligned with the
 University’s new Research and Innovation Strategy, adopted in 2019 and outlined in REF5a, and
 builds on the core principles of encouraging ambitious, entrepreneurial research that challenges
 existing approaches and knowledge; creating a coherent research-led academic environment;
 enhancing inclusivity in research; and collaborating with external partners, in Wales and globally,
 both in generating research and in passing on the benefits of research through impact and
 innovation. The key points of the Departmental strategy are to:

       Seek roles within larger national or international collaborations, where our expertise can
        provide key functions, for example through building on recent participation in space
        missions.

       Seek lead roles on focused projects within our areas of strength, and where we can
        maximize impact, for example in space-based imaging, photonics instrumentation and
        surface characterisation.

       Identify and foster new areas of growth where the Department can excel (for example
        space weather, photonics and radio spectrum).

       Maintain access, and build closer links, to central facilities such as synchrotron radiation
        sources and ground-based solar telescopes.



                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Expand Welsh-medium research and engagement activities and build on communication
        networks to inform the public and influence policy makers.

       Identify opportunities for industrial and governmental collaborations to exploit the
        potential commercial applications of our research, such as in our ongoing collaborations
        with large anchor companies and SMEs (for example, Qinetiq, Airbus, Varichem,
        Techion).

 Our involvement in international partnerships, strategic allocation of research time and fostering
 of early career researcher talent will lead to publications in the top interdisciplinary, highest-
 impact journals over the next five years. Publications will be open access, building on the
 Department’s engagement with the open science agenda in the current assessment period. In
 line with University policies described in REF5a, staff are required to deposit copies of author’s
 final manuscripts on acceptance for publication to be made available post-embargo in the
 Aberystwyth Research Portal repository. ‘Gold’ open access publishing has been supported for
 journals covered by JISC agreements with publishers, and for UKRI-funded research, through
 funds administered by the University. We also conform to UKRI guidelines on data management
 and open-access data and software. For example, we have published three source-code
 software packages for solar data analysis and a large data repository of solar atmospheric maps
 within the international open access SolarSoft library.

 Structure
 Research in the Department covers two broad areas of Solar System Physics and Materials &
 Quantum Physics, with a common core of instrument development and high-performance
 computing through the University’s access to SuperComputing Wales (SCW) facilities (see
 REF5a).

 Researchers, outputs and income are equally distributed across the groups and there is
 extensive sharing of people, facilities and projects between the groups and with other groups
 within and beyond the University. Research is supported by a shared Faculty-level infrastructure
 of research laboratories, mechanical & electronic workshops and computational facilities.
 Researchers in both groups make extensive use of external central facilities in the UK and
 internationally.

 Interaction and communication are facilitated by weekly research group meetings, Faculty
 Research Committee meetings, regular seminars and meetings of external networks. The
 structure and strategy are regularly reviewed with input provided at Faculty level by the
 Departmental Director of Research and Head of Department and at University level by the
 Faculty Associate Dean of Research, Knowledge Exchange and Innovation. Research and
 impact strategies are standing agenda items at weekly Staff Meetings, fortnightly Faculty and
 Departmental Executives, and termly Staff and Faculty Boards.

 Research expertise in Space Physics lies in the solar atmosphere, the solar wind and space
 weather, the moon and planetary magnetospheres, and remote-sensing instrumentation
 including space instruments. Our computational modelling, data processing and instrument
 development expertise is recognised in international collaboration and missions, and we are
 committed to the effective communication and exploitation of our discoveries.

 In Materials and Quantum Physics, our research expertise lies in measuring and predicting the
 properties of materials at the atomic level using unique combinations of experimental and
 theoretical methods including bespoke instrumentation developed within the Department, and
 linking to macroscopic applications in photonic, radio and quantum technology. This has enabled
 interdisciplinary projects in sectors such as photonics (polymer opals), health (dental cements),
 space (camera calibration), energy (transparent conductors) and digital technology (quantum
 control).



                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research is primarily undertaken through externally funded collaborative projects and networks.
 Major projects and initiatives during the REF 2021 assessment period have included
 participation in the ERDF-supported Centre for Photonics Expertise (CPE) (2019-2022) and the
 Solar Photovoltaic Academic Research Consortium (SPARC II) (2016-2023); contributions to the
 ExoMars, BepiColombo, JUICE and PUNCH space and planetary missions; a competitive EU
 (Sêr Cymru) Fellowship on advanced computational analysis and modelling for solar physics;
 grants for research on space weather (Leverhulme) on the development of perfect glasses by
 solid state synthesis (industry) (2013-2016); and partnership in the EPSRC Centre for Doctoral
 Training (CDT) in Diamond Science and Technology (2014-23). Through these projects we have
 made significant advances in the state of the art of scientific knowledge in our specialist fields,
 for example the melting of metal-organic frameworks to network topology, large-area
 nanoparticle ordering in polymer opals; new protocols for processing diamond surfaces;
 quantum feedback models for circuit quantum electrodynamic systems; a novel method of
 Multiscale Gaussian Normalization for image processing; the Solar Iterative Temperature
 Emission Solver (SITES) method for temperature analysis of the solar atmosphere; and the
 development of coronal rotational tomography. An important part of this work has been
 instrument design and build, with notable contributions including calibration targets and fiducial
 markers for visible and infrared cameras on the ExoMars mission; optimisation of radiation
 shielding for PEP package instruments on the JUICE mission; a high-resolution spectrometer for
 visible emissions lines of the solar corona; a high-temperature levitator for extreme materials
 and a combined optical and electron spectrometer for rapid surface analysis.

 Priorities for the Next REF Period
 Our approach in the next REF assessment period will be shaped by the continuing research
 strategy outlined above, and especially by objectives for expanding research collaborations,
 strengthening the impact of our research, and developing new areas of growth in space weather,
 photonics and radio spectrum research. Within this framework, our priority areas for research
 and innovation over the next five years include:

       Exploiting and expanding space instrumentation, building on the reputation gained
        through solar eclipse instrumentation and involvement in planetary exploration missions.

       Capitalising on our recent expansion in space weather through collaborative projects and
        exploitation of data from new missions such as PUNCH and Lagrange, with potential to
        deliver economic and societal impacts.

       Building interdisciplinary research in materials and nanomaterials with applications in
        energy, bio-medical, quantum, radio and photonic technologies, including continued
        engagement with business.

       Expanding the laboratory and workshop infrastructure to include dedicated facilities for
        space instrumentation, planetary environments, radio spectrum, soft matter and
        environmental surface analysis, with potential for commercialisation.

       Building on our leadership in research and societal impact through the medium of Welsh.

 Three recent developments will help to deliver these objectives over the next REF assessment
 period: our participation in the Centre for Photonics Expertise (CPE), the establishment of a
 National Spectrum Centre at Aberystwyth, and new space weather consortia. These initiatives
 will strengthen our industrial collaboration and enhance research impact.

 Section 2: People

 Strategy and development
 Our staffing strategy is integral to our research strategy and aims to enhance the vitality of the
 research environment. We enable staff members to undertake high-quality and impactful
 research, and ensure the sustainability of the research environment by recruiting, training and

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 developing excellent early career researchers, post-doctoral researchers and postgraduate
 students. These aims are delivered through three focused objectives:

       Recruit and retain a diverse, gender-balanced team of excellent physicists;

       Prioritise the research needs of early career researchers;

       Respect research time allocation in the workloads of all staff members, and reward
        success in research.

 The objective of recruiting and retaining a diverse, gender-balanced team of excellent Physicists
 has been advanced during the assessment period. We are submitting six new academic
 appointments to REF, all early career researchers within 7 years of their PhD, and of an equal
 gender balance. Cross, Gunn and Jiliani have been appointed to the Materials and Quantum
 Group, with Cross and Gunn contributing to research in space instrument design and calibration,
 and Jiliani’s appointment marking a strategic investment in growing our capacity in radio
 spectrum science and technology. Knight, Gorman and Kuridze have been appointed to the
 Solar System Physics group, with Gorman working primarily on research on molecular lines,
 Kuridze on the coronal magnetic field, and Knight on radiation shielding of spacecraft
 instruments. Kuridze was appointed to a Sêr Cymru COFUND Fellowship, as part of a Welsh
 Government and Horizon 2020 funded programme to attract world-leading talent to Wales. The
 recruitment of highly promising early career researchers has been especially poignant as the
 assessment period has been marked by the tragic loss of two long-serving stalwarts of the
 Faculty, David Barnes in 2014 and Neville Greaves in 2019, whose legacies are sustained by
 the ongoing research led by a new emerging generation.

 With the changing profile of the Department’s staff, the second objective of prioritising the
 research needs of early career researchers has been especially important during the
 assessment period. Policies and procedures that have been adopted to facilitate this goal
 include the provision of teaching assistant support to ease teaching loads for early career
 researchers; Departmental financial support for conference travel and publication costs; and
 access to the University Research Fund and to other ring-fenced funding from the University to
 support small-scale pilot research studies. Early career researchers in the Department have
 participated in training and professional development courses provided by the University on
 topics including proposal writing and grant management, as well as in the prestigious Welsh
 Crucible programme, a 6-day intensive forum developing the research leadership of rising early
 and mid-career researchers in Wales (Finlayson, Morgan).

 Research in the Department involves seven research assistants funded externally (RAs), with a
 total of 21 RAs and fellows during the REF period. Support for RAs follows the Concordat to
 Support the Career Development of Researchers, to which Aberystwyth University is a
 signatory. All RAs have an annual meeting with a senior member of staff to discuss progress
 and career planning, and targets for the coming year. In the past two years, all RAs have
 presented their work in conferences, including internationally. RAs are encouraged to contribute
 broadly, for example in teaching and public engagement. Three RAs have been appointed to
 lectureships during the assessment period. The supportive research environment created in the
 Department has enabled our early career researchers to make significant contributions in their
 fields, gaining external recognition; for example, Gunn is PI on UKRI grants for space
 instrumentation and Co-I and calibration lead for the PanCam instrument.

 To further the third objective of respecting research time allocation in the workloads of all staff
 members and rewarding success in research, a minimum of 550 hours is ring-fenced for
 research activity in a Workload Allocation Model for research-active staff and we prioritise the
 research time of early career researchers. Flexibility in workload allocation has enabled
 teaching-focused staff to engage with research and has enabled two changes from teaching to
 research-focused roles. We encourage applications for research leave through the new
 University policy target of one in eight semesters research leave.

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 All staff engage in the Effective Contribution Scheme (ECS) with the Head of Department
 annually. The ECS's mechanism is a set of SMART targets which include research targets and
 supports the promotion process and access to contributory salary points. All new staff are
 assigned a senior staff member as mentor for their probation. In addition, the Faculty Associate
 Dean for Research meets individually with all academic staff every two years to appraise their
 research and provide constructive feedback on plans. Five promotions (three female) were
 made during the REF cycle, despite a lengthy period of promotion freezes (see REF5a),
 including Pryse to Professor and Morgan to Reader.

 Our faculty-wide team of technicians play a key role in research, teaching and outreach. They
 are involved in Departmental staff meetings, and share the same ECS process as other staff.
 They are represented by the Faculty Director of Infrastructure who is a member of the Faculty
 Executive along with the Heads of Department and Associate Deans. This empowering
 framework has enabled, for example, a former technician to advance to research fellow, then a
 lecturer during the assessment period. Technicians are encouraged to participate in, and lead,
 research and engagement projects such as industry contracts and outreach. For example, one
 of our technicians has received a top STEM ambassador award by STEMNET and another is
 studying part-time for a PhD in nanomaterials.

 Research students
 Over the REF period, 25 PhD students have graduated, 3 jointly with Computer Science,
 Mathematics, and Biological Sciences. This is a 20% increase on PhD awards per year
 compared with the REF 2014 cycle. We currently have 23 active PhD students (20 full time, 3
 part time), evenly distributed across our research areas. Postgraduate students are funded from
 STFC quota studentships, an EPSRC-funded Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) in Diamond
 Science and Technology, and internal and international scholarships including the Iraqi Cultural
 Attache, Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol, the European Union, and industrial collaborations that
 include Foremost Advanced Materials Ltd. (China), Element Six Ltd. and three Knowledge
 Economy Skills Scholarships (KESS) funded in collaboration with small and medium-sized
 enterprises (SMEs).

 A key strategy in the assessment period has been an effort to improve the quality and diversity
 of our PhD intake. Our improvement in staff diversity will provide additional positive role models
 for future research students; of the 15 current year 1-3 students, five are female (33%) in
 comparison with the seven females among the 25 graduates over the assessment period (28%).
 The University's AberDoc scholarship application system ensures a fair and transparent,
 university-wide mechanism that we use as a vehicle for all funded PhD position applications.
 This approach has led to an increase in the number of external PhD students: 6 of our 15 current
 year 1-3 students have joined us from external institutions, including 4 overseas students. Our
 strategy for improving quality is further reflected by four of our current students who were
 authors on refereed journal publications prior to starting their PhD.

 Our students are successful in finding postgraduate-level employment. Of the 25 PhD students
 graduating during the REF period, four have become lecturers in UK or overseas institutions,
 nine are RAs at UK and overseas institutions including NASA, ESA, and the National Physics
 Laboratory, and seven work in scientific or corporate computing including leading roles in these
 fields. Others are outside Physics and IT, for example a senior fund manager in an international
 corporation.

 The Department and University are committed to the provision of an appropriate level of training
 for all its postgraduate students. Within the Department, all PhD students are expected to attend
 monthly research seminars from internal or external speakers and to attend weekly research
 talks or a journal club. Many of our PhD students attend a weekly 'Hacky hour' run by
 SuperComputing Wales (SCW) and participate in other SCW workshops.



                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Within the University Graduate School, Physics staff coordinate research-focused modules, and
 are proactive in schemes such as the UKCGE good supervisory practice framework. The
 University Researcher Development Programme provides modules, workshops, and training
 courses. The Department provides Welsh-medium postgraduate training and events through the
 Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol. All postgraduate students can gain teaching experience,
 formalised through teaching contracts and the Teaching for Postgraduates at Aberystwyth
 University training framework.

 The Department monitors student diversity in staff meetings and has equality, diversity and
 inclusion as a standing item for discussion at its regular staff meetings. Our Equality, Diversity &
 Inclusion Committee (with members from the academic, administrative and technical staff, the
 student body and the University Diversity and Inclusion Manager) provides a forum for raising
 ED&I issues of concern to students following a regularly revised plan defined by the Juno
 principles.

 Our postgraduate training and research environment is accredited by STFC and reviewed
 biannually. It covers training, ED&I, research environment, and annual monitoring. On
 admission, students attend an induction meeting with the postgraduate co-ordinator, and
 participate in University induction events and training.

 EPSRC CDT students undertake an MSc in Warwick prior to commencing their PhDs that
 includes two 10-week mini projects that ensures cohort cohesion. During their PhD training,
 students from all of the eight partner universities attend a residential training and research
 course and participate in the annual Diamond Conference that attracts leading international
 attendees from academia and industry. Aberystwyth students have won prizes for their
 contributions and have led the cohort’s outreach activities, for example at the Royal Society
 Summer Exhibition. In 2018 our students were awarded a Royal Society of Chemistry outreach
 grant for an exhibition at the Science and Industry museum in Manchester which had 879
 visitors in 5 hours. They were also awarded an Institute of Physics Wales public engagement
 grant for a Diamonds in Space event at the Green Man festival, attracting 900 visitors.

 We have several internal financial awards for outstanding research work, including the annual
 R.M. Davies prize, with a cash reward of £1,200. Postgraduate students are provided with
 training to present their research work that includes an annual Faculty Conference for second
 and third year students with awards for best written, oral and poster presentations. Students also
 participate in the University postgraduate research conference, which includes a 3-minute talk
 competition with winners entered to a national competition. Students are supported to attend and
 present at national and international meetings and this has led to the award of prizes for
 presentations such as the Diamond Conference, the Interdisciplinary Surface Science
 Conference and the Materials Research Society (MRS) Fall meeting.

 Equality, diversity and inclusion
 The Department is improving the diversity and gender balance of its research community. Three
 of six new staff members appointed during the assessment period are female and two of the
 seven current RAs are female, as were eight of the 21 RAs working in the Department over the
 assessment period. The Department conforms to University policy regarding equality in
 recruitment and follows a code of practice that removes discrimination from the process. The
 Department has formalised equal opportunity through the Institute of Physics Juno program. We
 train staff on policies and procedures for recruitment, including a training session on equality and
 diversity. Unconscious bias training is mandatory for all staff. Staff are trained in ethics
 requirements for research and comply with University ethics policy and procedures (REF5a).

 The commitment of the Department and Aberystwyth University to Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion (ED&I) is recognised by a Disability Confident Employer accreditation, and participation
 in Stonewall’s Top 100 UK Employers for a LGBT+ friendly workplace. All staff are required to
 have completed ED&I Training and several networks promote equality issues and provide
 support for researchers, including the Women in Research Network, BAME Network, LGBT

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Network and Disability and Wellbeing Network. Staff, RAs and students are represented on our
 Departmental ED&I committee, which reports directly to the Departmental Executive Group and
 whose Chair is a member of the University ED&I Committee. Arrangements for flexible working
 include researchers returning from maternity leave, and those with medical conditions and caring
 responsibilities. We ensure that researchers who take family leave are not disadvantaged in their
 career progress and staff are consulted on meeting schedules, for example. Senior staff
 members participate in the University female researcher mentoring scheme. Pryse was one of
 the Royal Astronomical Society’s (RAS) 21 Women in 2016, a project that profiled leading
 females in astronomy with the aim of improving gender balance. We funded early career
 researcher Cross to take part in the Aurora leadership course, an external course for female
 leaders in HE, in 2015.

 ED&I principles have been incorporated into the REF 2021 selection process, as outlined in the
 University’s Code of Practice, with all members of the REF Reading Committee and
 supplementary reviewers required to have completed unconscious bias training. The
 Departmental REF Reading Committee included independent members from a cognate
 Department in the Faculty to monitor fair practice. Applications for output reductions for
 Individual Staff Circumstances are assessed through an anonymous process, with decisions
 made outside the Department.

 The Department supports a bilingual research environment in which English and Welsh
 languages have equal status. All research in Wales follows the University’s Welsh Language
 Policy, with opportunities for research subjects to participate in Welsh and bilingual
 communication with research participants and the public. Research through the medium of
 Welsh is further supported by the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol, and the Department currently
 has two PhD students partly funded by the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol who are active in
 Welsh-medium workshops, conferences and public engagement, and who will present their
 theses in both Welsh and English. Staff members, many of whom have learnt Welsh during the
 last REF period, are leading in developing a Welsh research forum. Staff-driven research
 activities such as these have played a major part in growing our provision of Welsh-medium
 undergraduate modules, and several of these undergraduates have become PhD students in the
 Department.

 Section 3: Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research funding
 Figure 1 shows the total research income per year through the REF period (including research
 income in-kind). The total research income is £4.5m, and the average income is approximately
 £640k per annum, with a general upward trend through the assessment period. Figure 2 (left)
 shows an increase in the number of active grants each year. The larger number of grants in
 recent years includes increased applications from early and mid-career researchers, and a
 broader diversity of funding sources. As shown in Figure 2, our grant income is dominated by
 UKRI (£2.3m) and European funds (£930k). There is £2.7m in current active grants that provide
 a platform for research over the next three years.




                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




    Figure 1. Total research income per year, including income in-kind. This is calculated
        from 1st August to 31st July annually (so '13' corresponds to 2013 to 2014).

 Our faculty-based Research Development Officer assists in identifying funding streams and the
 application process. The University's Department of Research Business & Innovation provides
 training workshops for all aspects of research funding and grant management. All proposals are
 peer-reviewed prior to submission; this is usually done by a senior researcher within the relevant
 research group.




      Figure 2. Left: Number of grants active within each year. Right: Funding distribution for
                            different sources during the REF period.

 In-house Facilities & Investment
 Key to our research is a common infrastructure incorporating laboratories, computing, electronic
 and mechanical workshops and support staff, all located in the same building. Workshop
 capabilities include electronic and mechanical design and manufacture, enabling in-house
 development and production of bespoke research equipment and instrumentation. During this
 REF period the workshops have produced systems including flight hardware and ground support
 equipment for the ExoMars rover mission, hyperspectral camera systems for remote sensing
 and solar observations, a high-temperature levitating furnace and a combined optical and
 electron spectrometer for surface analysis.



                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This infrastructure investment of £1.4m during the assessment period has included new
 laboratories and workshops for optics, robotics and soft matter, for new equipment such as
 ellipsometry and reflectometry, and for upgrading facilities such as Computer Numerical
 Controlled (CNC) manufacturing, microscopy and spectroscopy. The most recent investment is a
 new Space Exploration Centre which will include testing capabilities for UKSA and STFC
 projects supporting current and future space missions.

 We have a team of dedicated, Faculty-shared mechanical, electronic and computer technicians
 that facilitate our research. A Research Software Engineer for the European Regional
 Development Fund (ERDF) funded Super Computing Wales (SCW) network is based in the
 Faculty who has supported our increased use of this major facility in recent years. Researchers
 and PhD students are supported to engage in SCW activities including workshops, conferences,
 and training courses. Institutional investment in High Performance Computing hardware has
 complemented our research activities (see REF5a).

 The research facilities were rapidly utilised in April 2020 to produce Personal Protective
 Equipment for local health services in the COVID-19 pandemic response, in a collaboration with
 a consortium of local companies, developed from a Centre for Photonics Expertise contract, with
 a production rate 20 times higher than that achieved by their previous manufacturing method.

 Use of non-UKRI facilities
 In addition to UKRI facilities, staff have been successful in gaining access to major non-UKRI
 facilities such as synchrotron radiation sources, ground- and space-based telescopes as
 summarised in Table 1 (below), totalling 245 days of allocated time plus over a million SCW core
 hours. Researchers also benefit from access to facilities awarded through our international
 collaborations, not listed here.

   Facility                       Years             Location         Total time allocated
   Swedish Solar Telescope        2017, 2018,       La Palma         62 days
                                  2019, 2020
   Gregor Solar Telescope         2016, 2019        Tenerife         20 days
   DESY                           2015              Hamburg          7 days
   SWAP/PROBA 2                   2015              Brussels         31 days
   ASTRID2                        2019, 2020        Denmark          39 days
   Advanced Photon Source         2014              Chicago          7 days
   Photon Science Institute       2017, 2018,       Manchester       17 days
                                  2020
   BESSY                          2017, 2018,       Berlin           56 days
                                  2019, 2020
   SOLEIL                         2020              Paris            6 days
   SuperComputing Wales           2017-2020         Wales            1,029,826 core hours
   Table 1: In-kind research benefit from time awarded on major non-UKRI external facilities.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaboration
 Collaboration with external institutions is crucial to our research: 82% of papers are in
 collaboration with external institutions (SciVal data), and 72% of papers are published within
 international collaborations (increased from 62% in 2016) - the latter gain 86% of our citations.

 Our research collaborations are enabled by funded consortia and programmes across space,
 materials and quantum physics and by collaboration with international partners funded in their
 home countries. Our researchers are attached to the following key funded partnerships:



                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       ExoMars (Gunn, Langstaff, Cross). As part of the PanCam team for the ExoMars (launch
        2022) mission funded by UKSA and ESA, we have manufactured the calibration targets
        and fiducial markers for the visible and infrared cameras. This work is key to several
        interdisciplinary publications, encompassing applications in astronomy, geophysics, and
        archaeology.

       JUICE and BepiColombo (Grande, Knight, Pinter). We optimised the radiation shielding
        for the six instruments comprising the Particle Environment Package (PEP) on JUICE
        (launch 2023), following our role in the Solar Intensity X-Ray and Particles Spectrometer
        (SIXS) instrument on BepiColombo.

       Space Weather (Morgan, Grande, Kuridze). A new solar tomography method was
        developed during a Leverhulme fellowship in 2015-2016 and is key to our recent
        expansion in space weather research. We lead further projects that will deliver
        operational space weather forecasting tools for the Meteorological Office. We led the ten-
        year Committee on Space Research (COSPAR) space weather roadmap and collaborate
        internationally on alerting future manned space missions from damaging radiation.

       Polarimeter to Unify the Corona and Heliosphere (PUNCH) (Morgan). On the NASA
        PUNCH mission (launch 2023), we will apply our software analysis tools for interpreting
        and planning mission observations.

       Advanced computational analysis and modelling for solar physics (Kuridze, Taroyan,
        Morgan, Pinter, Gorman). Enabled by a Sêr Cymru Fellowship (2017-2020) and SCW
        facilities, our data analysis methods and advanced numerical models are used to study
        dynamic phenomena in the Sun's atmosphere. The new analysis methods have led to
        opportunities for cross-disciplinary applications including a collaboration with cancer
        researchers, funded by the Welsh Crucible.

       Ground-based solar observations (Kuridze, Morgan, Cook, Gunn). We are collaborating
        on observing, analysis, and modelling of ground-based solar observations with major
        international facilities - a timely field given the imminent observations of the Daniel K.
        Inouye Solar Telescope (DKIST) in 2021. Our work as members of the world-leading
        group of eclipse scientists has led to a new design and build of a high-resolution
        spectrometer for visible emission lines of the solar corona.

       Development of Perfect Glasses by solid state synthesis project (2012-2105) (Zhou,
        Greaves, Wilding, Langstaff). This industry-funded international collaboration has
        enabled the realisation and application of novel materials such as perfect glasses and
        bio-cements and has driven the development of new instrumentation, leading to further
        international funding for Aerodynamic Levitation for materials at high temperatures.

       CDT in Diamond Science and Technology (2014-2023) (Evans, Cross). This network is
        training our next generation of scientists and engineers who are finding new ways to
        exploit the unique optical and surface properties of diamond, and who are
        communicating their enthusiasm by leading major outreach events such as the Royal
        Society Summer Exhibition in 2016.

       Solar Photovoltaic Academic Research Consortium (SPARC II) (2016-2023) (Evans,
        Finlayson, Langstaff, Gunn, Cross, Winter). This is a £9.7m ERDF partnership of four
        universities to build research capacity in solar photovoltaic research in Wales. It is
        enabling us to extend research on new materials and the development of our bespoke
        cluster tools incorporating real-time X-ray and optical methods to give new insights to the
        physics of photovoltaic devices.



                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Centre for Photonics Expertise (CPE) (2019-2022) (Cross, Gunn, Langstaff, Morgan,
        Evans). This is a recent £3.8m ERDF partnership of four universities that draws on
        leading academic capabilities offering light-based technological solutions to enable
        businesses across Wales to accelerate business growth.

       Radio spectrum (Pryse, Jilani, Langstaff, Gunn, Evans). Radio physics and technology is
        an area of investment that brings together new expertise in antenna design
        with established materials, instrumentation and ionospheric expertise and links to other
        disciplines and industry. This growth is part of a collaboration between the University,
        industry and Government to establish a National Spectrum Centre in Aberystwyth.

 Beyond these partnerships, our UK and international collaborations, including corporate
 collaborations, extend across the Research Groups. We have very productive collaborations
 with Chinese institutions including Shanghai University, Wuhan University of Technology, and
 Hong Kong Polytechnic University. Across Europe, we have collaborated with institutions
 including the Austrian Academy of Sciences, Sorbonne Universite, Norwegian University of
 Science and Technology, KU Leuven (Belgium), and Observatoire de Paris. We have
 collaborated on multiple papers with several of the most prestigious US institutions including
 Harvard, Princeton, University of California at Berkeley, California Institute of Technology,
 Carnegie Institution of Washington, George Mason University, Johns Hopkins Applied Physics
 Laboratory, Southwest Research Institute, Rice University, University of Hawaii, Stanford
 University and Massachusetts Institute of Technology. We have multiple collaborations with
 other international institutions such as the University of New South Wales (Australia), the
 University of Canterbury (NZ), Czech Academy of Sciences, Swiss Federal Institute of
 Technology at Lausanne, and the University of Graz (Austria).

 Within the UK, we have productive collaborations with institutions including the University of
 Cambridge, University College London, Queen Mary University of London, University of St
 Andrews, Warwick University, University of Oxford, Imperial College London, University of
 Bristol, University of Glasgow, University of Edinburgh, Cardiff University, Queen's University
 Belfast, and Newcastle University.

 We collaborate with international government research institutes including CNRS (France),
 Chinese Academy of Sciences, German Aerospace Center, NASA Goddard & Ames, ESTEC
 (Netherlands), Joanneum Research (Austria), Max Planck Institute for Solar System Research
 (Germany), MacDiarmid Institute for Advanced Materials and Nanotechnology (NZ), International
 Atomic Energy Agency (Austria), and the Naval Research Laboratory (US). Our publications with
 corporate collaborators include Anglo American (UK), Schlumberger (US), Adnet Systems (US),
 Predictive Science (US), QinetiQ (UK), Aerospace Corportation (US), Materials Development
 Inc. (US), Lockheed Martin (US), and Element Six Ltd (UK).

 Contribution to the research base
 Researchers have held key or leading roles that contribute to the vitality and sustainability of
 scientific research, for example: Grande was on the COSPAR executive bureau and is the UK
 representative and Vice Chair of the COSPAR Space Weather Panel. He was President of
 Planetary Science for the European Geophysical Union, has served on the Royal Astronomical
 Society council, and on the Executive Committee of the French national Centre for Plasma
 Physics Data. Zhou is Deputy Director of the EU-China Urban Research & Innovation
 Laboratory, and Secretary General of the New Material Industry Promotion Committee (China-
 Europe Association for Technological and Economic Cooperation). Morgan was Chair of the
 Solar System Advisory Panel for STFC. Gunn is a member of the UKSA's Remote Exploration
 Oversite Committee. Evans chaired the working group for the B07 soft X-ray beamline at the
 Diamond Light Source and is a member of the advisory board for the EPSRC National X-ray
 Photoelectron Spectroscopy (XPS) facility at Harwell. Morgan was a member of the UK DKIST
 consortium. Cook is on the International Astronomical Union committee for the naming of
 features on Mercury. Jilani is on the Executive Committee of the Institute of Engineering and
 Technology's Antennas and Propagation Technical Network. Morgan was a member of a panel

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reviewing solar facilities for STFC. Pryse is on the UK panel of Union Radio-Scientifique
 Internationale that co-ordinates radio science research. Grande is a member of the Welsh
 Horizon 2020 Experts and Evaluators Group.

 Grant panel, journal editorial, and review roles
 Researchers contribute to the UKRI research community through reviewing and membership
 and chairing of panels. This includes EPSRC panel membership for Physical Sciences, Platform
 Grants, Programme Grants, Supergen Solar, Mid-range Facilities and Chair of Fellowships
 Interview Panel (Evans). Morgan chaired the Priority Project panel for STFC in 2018. Grande
 has been a member of the European Research Council's Astronomy Consolidator grant panel
 and H2020 panels. Gunn is on the UKSA Aurora panel and Kuridze was a panel member for
 NASA's Research Opportunities in Space and Earth Science Heliophysics program. Staff
 members are regular reviewers for Horizon 2020, EPSRC, STFC, NASA Low-Cost Access to
 Space, NASA PDRA fellowships, Ernest Rutherford fellowships, Royal Astronomical Society
 fellowships, UKRI Future Leadership scheme, National Agency for Scientific and Technological
 Promotion (Argentina), National Science Foundation (USA), the National Geographic Society,
 and observing time proposals for major facilities. Staff members have given talks at UKRI and
 elsewhere on successful application techniques.

 Journal editorial board membership include The Astronomy and Astrophysics Review, Frontiers
 in Physics, Scientific Reports, Rare Metals, Frontiers in Astronomy and Space Science,
 Diamond and Related Materials, Molecules, and the Russian Journal of Mathematical Physics.
 Pryse was Chair of the Editorial Board of the Welsh academic journal Gwerddon. Staff frequently
 review papers for high-impact journals.

 Conference and workshop participation.
 Early career researchers and PhD students are supported by the Department to attend national
 and international conferences and to present their work with students gaining prizes for best
 presentation at meetings such as the Diamond Conference and Interdisciplinary Surface
 Science Conference in the UK and the Materials Research Society (MRS) meetings in the US.

 Researchers are active in conference and workshop organisation; for example, the European
 Planetary Science Congress (Grande was Chair of the Executive Committee and Organising
 Committee), Europlanet (Grande, Cook, Cross), Society of Photo-optical Instrumentation
 Engineers (SPIE) Photonex (Gunn), International Conference on UK-CHINA Emerging
 Technologies (Zhou) and the Isaac Newton Institute program (Gough). We are key in
 establishing, organising, and hosting the annual Welsh Scientific Conference. The Department
 hosted the 2019 STFC Summer School in solar system physics, an event for approximately 30
 PhD students from UK and overseas. We help organise the UK Solar Online Seminar Series and
 have delivered invited seminars to the European Solar Physics Online Seminar series, to an
 international audience of over 100.

 We have convened and chaired sessions for UK and international conferences including the
 National Astronomy Meeting (UK), MRS (USA), e-MRS (Europe), International Conference on
 Solid Films and Surfaces (Germany and Japan), Annual World Congress of Advanced Materials
 (China), International Symposium on Graphene Advanced Nanomaterials & Defects Engineering
 (China), and Solar Image Processing meetings (USA).

 We frequently participate as lecturers in workshops including Solar Orbiter workshops, Quantum
 and Nano-Control workshops (Institute for Mathematics and Its Applications), STFC Summer
 Schools, Original Research by Young Twinkle Students Summer Schools, and several
 international workshops related to space missions, for example ExoMars instrumentation.

 Staff members regularly give invited talks at specialist conferences in their respective fields,
 including several plenary talks including Graphene and Carbon Nanotechnology (Japan, 2019),
 Hinode 13/15th symposium of Interrelationship between Plasma Experiments in the Laboratory
 and in Space (Japan, 2019), Physics of Non-Crystalline Solids (France, 2018), High-resolution

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Solar Physics: Past, Present, Future (USA, 2017), International Commission on Glass (Thailand,
 2015), and Beijing Institute of Technology’s 1st Emerging Industry Forum (China, 2014). Staff,
 RAs, and PhD students regularly present in conferences including UK National Astronomy
 Meetings, the European Geophysical Union meeting, American Astronomical Society meetings,
 American Geophysical Union meetings, and the Materials Research Society meetings.

 Invited seminars and public lectures
 We have given numerous invited seminars at other UK and overseas institutions including
 Catania Astrophysical Observatory, Czech Academy of Sciences, Max Planck Institute
 Gottingen, and Princeton University. Staff are also invited to present in specialist international
 workshops related to space missions, quantum control, materials science, and Solar Orbiter
 workshops for example.

 Awards and recognition
 The contribution of members of the Department to the research community has been recognised
 in awards and prizes, including the election of Pryse as a Fellow of the Learned Society of
 Wales in 2018, and the award of the Eilir Hedd Morgan prize for Contribution to Welsh Science
 to Morgan in 2014. Greaves received the Cooper Distinguished Lecturer Award from the
 American Ceramic Society in 2016 and held visiting academic positions at Cambridge
 University, University College London, and Wuhan University of Technology.

 Contribution to economy & society
 Engagement with the public, policy makers, schools and businesses is encouraged through
 financial support and workload allocation that values these activities alongside research and
 teaching.

 To enhance interaction between academia, government and industry, our researchers have, for
 example, presented and led discussion at events such as the Science in the Senedd series
 (Morgan, Grande), and have engaged with policy makers, for example providing evidence to the
 Welsh Assembly’s Enterprise and Business Committee (Evans) and advising media on science
 content (Morgan). Evans has chaired the Welsh Optoelectronics Forum steering committee and
 is a member of the Advanced Sustainable Manufacturing Technologies (ASTUTE) external
 advisory panel. Grande and Evans have chaired the Institute of Physics in Wales committee;
 Evans is Chair and Pryse member of the National Eisteddfod's Central Science and Technology
 Committee, Pryse has led on the RAS200 engagement project on which one of our impact case
 studies is based. Pryse's and Grande's links to the Royal Astronomical Society led to
 Aberystwyth being chosen for their strategy consultation meeting with the Welsh community in
 2018.

 Our collaborations with organisations, SMEs and anchor companies such as Airbus, Qinetiq and
 Qioptiq have been enabled by KESS PhD scholarships, Expertise Wales SMART partnerships,
 large consortia and consultancies. In recent years, three new initiatives in particular are
 establishing interactions that will lead to societal and economic impact in the next decade:

       A new STFC project that unites expertise at four UK universities delivering operational
        space weather forecasting tools for the Meteorological Office.

       Government and industry funding, including a SMART partnership, in radio science and
        technology that forms the basis of a National Spectrum Centre at Aberystwyth.

       The collaborative Centre for Photonics Expertise has established a framework for
        engagement of four universities with businesses to provide photonics solutions derived
        from our combined research expertise that enables a rapid process from initial contact,
        facilitated by shared business development officers, to project commencement. In its first
        year, the Centre has processed 20 contracts with companies based on Aberystwyth
        expertise in optical instrumentation, sensors, diamond science and solar energy.

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We are contributing to the sustainability of the physics research base through initiatives to
 connect our research with school science teaching, inspiring the next generation of physicists.
 These include the £8.2m TrioSciCymru project, a collaboration between the Welsh Government
 and four universities that will reach 5,600 pupils in 30 schools with aims to encourage students
 from under-represented backgrounds to study science. We are leading the science activities in
 the University's Old College project, with support from the Wolfson Foundation (£250k, 2019), as
 part of a major transformation of this building as a centre for learning, culture, and enterprise.

 More broadly, contributions to the public understanding of science include the RAS200 science-
 arts collaborative project ‘Astronomy and Geophysics through the Traditional Culture of Wales’
 (2015-2022), led by the Department with other universities, the National Eisteddfod and the Urdd
 (Welsh youth organisation), and involving several artists, musicians, dancers, writers and
 composers. This project has enabled many cultural activities based on scientific themes to reach
 a wide audience, impacting on Welsh cultural life, and forms one of our impact case studies. We
 have organised public activities to coincide with major astronomical events (for example, the
 Mercury transits, the 2015 eclipse), as well as numerous smaller-scale stargazing or sungazing
 events at various venues throughout Wales. The 2015 eclipse event was attended by at least a
 thousand people. Other events include the launch of the ExoMars Rover full-size model (built in
 the Department for outreach purposes), which was attended by the UKSA Exploration
 Programme Manager, and televised live on a national Welsh TV broadcast. Our engagement
 with amateur astronomers has led to an asteroid being named after Tony Cook in 2016, in
 recognition of his outreach and planetary topographic mapping work.

 The National Eisteddfod of Wales is a major annual cultural festival that has a wide reach with
 over 20,000 visitors per day to the science events over the week-long festival. Our research has
 featured prominently each year, and in particular in 2016 and 2017 when Aberystwyth led the
 exhibition with support from the Institute of Physics and the STFC through a grant in partnership
 with the Diamond Light Source.

 In response to the cancelled Eisteddfod of 2020, Evans recorded a series of accessible home-
 based experiments in lieu of the usual science exhibits that linked our research to the school
 science curriculum, and Morgan recorded an astronomy-based presentation aimed at children
 as part of a Christmas 'Advent' series, as well as interviewing a popular author on her new novel
 which is based on astronomy themes.

 Co-ordinating with the University's Communications team we promote science and our research
 through appearances on media outlets including TV and radio items on topics such as our
 participation in eclipse observations, the discovery of the strong magnetic field of coronal loops,
 our work on ExoMars instrumentation, and disproving moon landing conspiracy theories. Our
 researchers communicate across a range of media, with examples including Radio 4’s Inside
 Science, the Guardian, New York Times, The Mirror, the “i”, Discovery Channel and Channel 5.
 A high-resolution image of the solar corona processed using our methods, was chosen to adorn
 a wall in the new Oculus Rex (Facebook) headquarters in Oregon.




                                                                                             Page 15
