Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: London South Bank University

 Unit of Assessment: 12 - Engineering

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

                            1.a. Unit Context and Structure
 Our UoA 12 submission embraces research streams across the 4 divisions within the School of
 Engineering: Chemical Engineering; Electrical and Electronic Engineering; Computer Systems
 and Informatics; and, Mechanical Engineering, with 48.79 FTE staff. The range of expertise has
 enabled a viable delivery of applied, impactful, excellent quality and internationally recognised
 research across our areas of strength with a promotion of interdisciplinary collaboration across
 these core research areas. Over the last 5 years we have focused to optimise resource use and
 allocation to guarantee a thriving and sustainable research environment.

 Research in the school is carried out through 3 research centres:

    1. The BioE, (Centre for BioEngineering) – Specialising in imaging, nonintrusive and non-
       contact sensing, radar, applied artificial intelligence, applied anthropology and
       biomechanics, signal and image processing related to health and energy monitoring
       applications;
    2. The LCEE, (London Centre for Energy Engineering) – The largest centre in the school
       performs research on energy generation, i.e. photovoltaics, energy storage, precision and
       additive manufacturing, materials for energy applications including nanomaterials, energy
       technologies and project implementation, i.e. heating and cooling and energy modelling;
       and
    3. The CSRC, (Cognitive Systems Research Centre) – concentrates on areas covering
       smart internet technologies, cyber physical systems, robotics and automation, data
       science and machine learning.

 To facilitate internal collaborative and interdisciplinary work, Research Centre (RC) members are
 also encouraged to hold appropriate affiliate membership roles with another RC with circa 65% of
 staff actively participating in more than one RC.


                        1.b (i). Research and Impact Strategy
 Since the last REF we have strived to create a viable and thriving research environment. Our
 present and future trajectory follows three main themes:

    1. To be internationally recognised for high-quality research in our chosen areas of
       strength (i.e., renewable energy, biomedical applications, materials engineering and
       robotics) as well as increasing quality in the closely related areas of applied
       bioengineering; material for energy and manufacturing; and distributed and cognitive
       systems;
    2. Presence and impact: Creating meaningful national and international research
       partnerships for translational outcomes; and
    3. Continuity: Research continuity by attracting high quality PhD students and securing
       research funding.

 The main pillars of our REF2014-2020 strategy aimed to:

 1. Improve our global presence for research quality in our chosen areas. In support of this aim,
    considerable capacity building took place, employing and retaining high quality staff ranging
    from experienced Professorial to early career appointments, evidenced below by a major
    growth (over 60%) in numbers of top-quality academic staff, a focused facility and estates

                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      spend (building on previous REF strategy) to ensure staff and students have access to state-
      of-the-art facilities to execute their research and collaborate effectively with academic and
      industrial networks. This is evidenced by the enhanced research environment, facilities,
      organisational structure and management support (highlighted below and evidenced in section
      3);
 2.   Focus on high quality research outputs evidenced by a 300% growth in outputs and 21%
      increase of publications in the top 10% of Journals in our UoA (evidenced by REF 2);
 3.   Create a supportive environment for staff and research students to flourish in, with a
      particular strategy to recruit future leaders and support with considerable startup;
 4.   Create and attract excellent PhD opportunities for high quality candidates via dedicated
      school scholarships and industrially match-funded positions. This is evidenced by a 9-fold
      increase in PhDs awarded in 2019/20 compared to 2013/14 as shown below and in section 2;
      and
 5.   Increase the quality and the quantity of internationally recognised applied and impactful
      research. This has been primarily achieved through research and grant collaboration,
      grant leads and visiting fellowships in selected areas of energy, applied materials for
      energy, manufacturing, bioengineering and cognitive systems. Testimony to the above is the
      fact that over this REF period, the UoA attracted a total of £32.7m in grants/contracts as lead
      and collaborating institution (a 128% increase since the last REF), £16.3m of these were
      directly allocated to LSBU over the review period (a 69% increase since the last REF -
      evidence REF3 and sections 3 and 4).

                      1.b (ii). Strategic Aims and Achievements

 Progress since REF2014 included focusing on three main research themes of strength to target
 excellence for 2021 and beyond. We continue to exploit our strong relationships with industrial
 and academic partners and professional institutions, influencing research agendas (e.g.
 Dagiuklas and team cognitive system work has been noted for Britain’s digital future: Capability
 Framework and Research Agenda for a Digital Built Britain document; and Maidment: A report
 on Refrigerant Leakage to the Refrigeration Technical Options Committee; as well as Advisor to
 the UK Government’s Chief Scientific Advisor – November 2018 – present), engaging in
 fundamental and applied research to meet specific needs related to our research strengths.

 The following achievements expand on the five aims listed Section 1.b (i), above:

 (1) To improve our global presence for research quality in our chosen areas:
 a) Focused capacity building with appointments of 4 experienced researchers at Professorial
 level, (Barber, Dunn, Philbin and Upadhyaya), 18 colleagues at Lecturer and Senior Lecturer
 levels from a wide range of institutions (in parentheses), including 14 ECRs with high research
 leadership potential that aligns with research priorities Battersby (LSBU), Benson (LSBU),
 Berthaume (Imperial), Buckeridge (UCL), Chaouki (LSBU), Constantinou (UCL), Duan
 (LSBU), Durand (TWI-partnership), Harput (Imperial), Iqbal (Aalto, Finland),
 Khamsehnezhad (TWI-Partnership) Memon (Loughborough), Sajjad (St. Andrews), Zhu
 (Loughborough), along with 4 mid-career staff appointments, Cadenas (Kent), Grisan,
 (KCL/Padova), Vilches (Brunel) and Bleay, who joined LSBU with over 15 years industrial
 experience for government bodies in material engineering research that suited our materials
 engineering drive. Three Associate Professorial colleagues, Goel (Cranfield), Dagiuklas
 (Patras) and Tokhi (Sheffield) joined the school, further adding to the school’s international
 research reputation in our chosen fields.

  Professorial appointments:
  Barber joined from Portsmouth University bringing expertise and international network partners
  (e.g. GSK) in biomechanics.
  Dunn joined from Deregallera Ltd, Caerphilly, where he was Head of Materials research, having
  previously held a Professorial position at Queen Mary University of London. This distinctive
  academic/industrial experience has assisted with research focus and partnership finding for the
  Energy and Materials teams (IUK Battery Management System).

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Philbin joined from Imperial College London and leads our Nathu-Puri Institute, a £1.5m centre
  established through donation, which has allowed Philbin to a) enrich our teaching of engineering
  management in the school providing students with real-world expertise and b) initiate new
  partnerships with international institutions, including Chang'an University (China), University of
  Johannesburg (South Africa) and the Pontifical Catholic University of Paraná (Brazil).
  Upadhyaya joined from Brunel University bringing additional expertise and international
  recognition in advanced materials for applied energy, driving forward the Schools interests in
  zero carbon opportunities. Upadhyaya holds the first Newton Prize for research in renewable
  energy impacting high areas of depravation notably in India.

  Associate Professorial (AP) appointments:
  Dagiuklas joined from Patras University, Greece incorporating Future Internet Technologies with
  one of the few internationally recognised 5G research centres in the UK (H2020 SONNET),
  promoting LSBU with key players, such as Nokia, Thales, Motorola, Telefonica and Technicolor.
  Goel joined from Cranfield University via a dedicated appointment to revitalise our manufacturing
  research towards future smart manufacturing and material development (Co-I EP/T024607/1
  and EP/T001100/1 for sustainable coatings & adhesions).
  Tokhi joined from the University of Sheffield augmenting our established research in Robotics
  research with control intelligence and automation. Tokhi is a key member of the organising
  committee of the renowned CLAWAR (International Conference Series on Climbing and Walking
  Robots) Association promoting international network and reputational opportunities.

 (b) A focused facility and estates spend Supporting investment in people with parallel selected
 augmentation in research facilities has been a prime consideration of the School. A total sum of
 £4.5m has been invested to enhance facilities and opportunities. This with the aim to develop
 future higher TRL level research outcomes as well as more grant leadership and collaboration
 with academic and industrial partners. Highlights included the refurbishment of the materials
 engineering LCEE space to cater for higher TRL level outputs and to accommodate £2m of
 machine donations along with specialist equipment requests for BioE and CSRC (detailed in
 section 3).

 (2) To focus on high quality research outputs:

 SciVal reports that during the REF2021 period, this UoA published (in the General Engineering
 area) 268 journal articles compared to 80 articles in the previous, REF2014 period (i.e., an
 increment of over 300%). According to the Source Normalised Impact per Paper (SNIP) metric,
 72.8% of these articles were published in the top quartile journals and 48.3% in the top decile,
 compared to the baselines (previous REF period) of 61.3% and 40% – showing a percentage
 relative increment, compared to the baseline, of 18.8% and 20.8% for top quartile and decile,
 respectively. The percentage of articles with international collaborators grew from 40% to 52.6%
 (giving a percentage relative increment compared to the baseline of 31.5%) and an increment in
 the number of countries citing our articles from 78 to 96 (giving a percentage relative increment of
 23.1%). These achievements have been brought about through a team effort (academic and
 management), dedicated to making the School of Engineering at LSBU an attractive and
 productive place to work with an excellent research environment and supportive atmosphere.

 (3) To create a supportive environment for staff and research students to flourish:

 School research organisation is a combination of bottom-up and top-down activities. The School
 Research Committee (SRC) comprises members from the three research centres, staff at
 different seniority levels (SL, AP, Professor) and is gender and age balanced (6 female, 7 male
 staff; 5 staff ≥ 50 years, 7 staff ≤ 45 years). It meets formally once per term, is chaired by the
 School’s Director of Research and Enterprise (DoRE), and members include the School Dean,
 Postgraduate Research Student Coordinator (PGRC), a nominated research centre head and the
 Technical Development Manager (TDM). The Director of Operations and Head Technician attend
 relevant parts of the meeting.


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The SRC discusses research governance, facility maintenance, mentoring, soft-and hardware
 expansion, seed funding, general research and impact support activities and postgraduate funding
 and training/support. It promotes vitality and sustainability, ensuring staff at all levels of seniority
 benefit from being part of an intellectually stimulating community with state-of-the-art facilities.
 Heads of Research Centres (HoRCs) act as advocates for their research domain on the SRC and
 ensure that investments are strategically implemented. DoRE and the PGRC attend termly
 University Research Committee meetings, where school level issues are presented as well as
 university wide research issues are discussed.

 School research communication is disseminated by the DoRE, HoRCs and the PGRC via email
 or meetings (depending on need), and through dedicated staff/PGR Moodle and Haplo sites. The
 school web developer works with the University marketing and web team promoting research
 centre news, assisting with open access and to that social media updates are timely and
 accessible.

 The School has fortnightly local activities (seminars, workshops) to highlight and encourage
 best practices and disseminate research/impact outcome exchanges. The School uses MS Teams
 research discussion channels to enhance rapid communication and support, especially important
 during COVID-19 times.

 A Research Open repository has been in place since 2016, where all outputs are stored for
 public view. The University also runs an open-access publication fee scheme open to staff and
 students providing financial support for OA publication fees. Locally the School provides further
 funds to support colleagues with open access if the university funding has expired.

 Locally, open access to research data is managed by each Research Centre. We employ the
 open-source GitHub service to securely store raw data for each Centre, promoting their availability
 online (once the related research has been published). Providing data access to researchers
 worldwide is done via email consent, sharing of data in this regulated way provides the school with
 appropriate control.

 Since 2015, yearly dedicated funding (£1.5-5k) to assist with self-promotion, international
 travel and conference attendance for staff and PhD students was provisioned by the School’s
 management team. It’s remit to support staff and students with regular opportunities to promote
 their work, network and travel to overseas research teams, providing a sustainable development
 pathway for colleagues.

 This resourcing, along with university wide competitive sabbatical scheme and additional
 networking assistance provided by the University’s Clarence Centre for Enterprise and Innovation,
 have led to network creation, international recognition and success. This is highlighted by the
 lead and collaboration of our staff (notable for female staff – F and Early Career Researchers
 (ECR)) on international grants.

 Exemplars are as follows:
  CryoHub (Evans F) an EU-funded project to develop and investigate the potential of large
    scale cryogenic energy storage at refrigerated warehouses and food factories with partners
    such as Dohmeyer, Germany;
  i-STUTE (Maidment and Revesz ECR) an interdisciplinary centre for Storage, Transformation
    and Upgrading of Thermal Energy;
  ROVER (Dudley F) an EU ITN with international research and industrial partners from Finland,
    Italy, Australia and the USA to create market ready imaging and non-ionising wireless medical
    devices;
  ISOPREP (Durand ECR F). This large European collaboration has 10 partners in 6 countries
    focussed on recycling technology to facilitate the transition towards a circular economy;
  RiserSure (Sattar) collaborated with international teams such as Mistras Group Hellas
    Anonymos Biomichaniki Kai Emporiki Etaireia (Greece) to create a non-invasive product to
    inspect pipes for offshore farms;

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    ENABLEH2 (Ingram and Benson ECR F) is a H2020 project with 7 partners across 5
     countries revitalising the enthusiasm in liquid hydrogen research for civil aviation, with LSBU
     working on the safety aspects; and
    ERDF CEDaCI project academic lead (Andrews F) investigating sustainable deployment,
     upcycling of Data centre waste driving companies towards more sustainable approaches.

 Other significant examples are the Royal Society and EU Research fellowship successes such as
 Goel (Newton Fellowship from Ben-Gurion University of the Negev) and Ghavami and Dudley
 (F) (EU Fellowship from University of Perugia, Italy).

 (4) To create and attract excellent PhD opportunities:

 To improve the opportunity, quality and continuity of PhD research and supervision, the School
 management team commenced a programme of full and match-funded scholarships. These
 scholarships have been regularly offered in the fulfilment of our strategy and received a total
 £2.47m spend between industry and the School over the past 5 years, resulting in a 9-fold increase
 (to 31 July 2020 and expected 13-fold at 31 December 2020) in the number of graduates at the
 end of their prescribed PhD enrolment period since 2015. Companies participating in the match
 funding partnerships are diverse, from multinationals to SMEs and demonstrate our impact in
 translational research including projects with, for example, Shell, Biox, Brandmovers, The British
 Blind and Shutter Association (BBSA), Orxa-Grid, Demand Logic, TWI (Cambridge) and UBT
 (Italy).

 Such fruitful endeavours have resulted in SMEs benefitting from access to university resources
 (staff and labs) culminating in economic and cultural impact at an industrial level. It has also
 provided fantastic opportunities with Government Departments (BEIS) and large international
 companies, GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) and Chinasoft, positioning the School as an authentic and
 impactful research partner for high quality PhD research.

 Successful PhD pursuits have led to unique post-doctoral positions with the same SMEs who now
 benefit from this mutual investment (time and financial) in highly skilled researchers uniquely
 aware of their business hopes and needs e.g., Riaz (PragmatIC Semiconductor), Rana (post-
 doctoral position in medical imaging match-funded by LSBU and UBT) and Dey (Neuville Data
 through ERDF Low Carbon London network funding shared between Neuville and LSBU).

 (5) To increase the quality and the quantity of internationally recognised applied and
 impactful research via research collaboration and grant’s capture:

 The respective membership, focus, research impact and achievements of the three Research
 Centres are summarised below:

 (a) The BioEngineering Research Centre (BioE) (Leads: Ghavami/Xiao)
 Core Members: Professors Ghavami, Xiao, Barber, Dudley; Associate Professors Goss; Senior
 lecturers: Vilches, Lishman, Berthaume, Harput, Grisan; Lecturer: Chaouki
 Associate members: Zhu, Chen, Kellici; Sajjad, Iqbal, Jahanzad, Memon, Kumar and Duan.

 The original focus of the BioEng Centre was to be a globally acknowledged, high quality
 interdisciplinary research centre in wireless sensing systems, signal processing and
 modelling for health and energy (cross-LCEE) applications (Ghavami, Dudley), material
 strength, mechanics, and prototyping (Lishman-ECR, Goss) as well as in skin bioengineering
 (Xiao). The centre has been strengthened by additional expertise in applied biomechanics (Barber,
 Berthaume-ECR), Image and signal processing (Grisan), embedded systems and digital design
 for biomedical applications (Vilches) and complimenting research in Ultrasound imaging and
 signal processing (Harput-ECR). Developed research in house by Goss has focused on
 nanomaterial mechanics.



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Successful exemplars are:
  Ghavami: WEBOING: EU Marie Curie Fellowship grant. Dr Gianni Tiberi, a researcher from
    the University of Perugia applied to spend 2 years working with Ghavami and Dudley to
    develop his expertise on bone fractures using RADAR. This work has led to a number of
    proposal submissions and papers as evidenced in REF 4b;
  Dudley: ROVER an ITN Marie Curie RISE grant with10 partners across 7 countries: Dudley
    and Ghavami lead two work packages for beyond state-of-the-art development of Radar and
    wireless interconnected platforms. These platforms will support new health paradigms
    employing channel modelling, hardware development and demonstration of wireless imaging,
    wireless-only gait analysis and their commercialisation strategies, demonstrating the growth in
    international recognition of the team;
  Goss PI: EPSRC EP/P030203/1 MMEAW: Modelling the MEchanics of Animal Whiskers, led
    by LSBU is a multidisciplinary project, lying at the interface between structural engineering,
    robotics and comparative animal physiology. The project aimed to increase knowledge of how
    whiskers are adapted to their function and apply that understanding to applications in
    engineering; and
  Harput (ECR) won a new research grant from the Royal Society to develop new ultrasound
    transducer technology: ‘Human Ear-inspired Ultrasonic Transducer (HEUT) with a Spiral-
    shaped Acoustic Lens for 3D Localization of Sparse Scatterers’.

 (b) London Centre for Energy Engineering (LCEE) (Leads Maidment/Upadhyaya)
 Core Members: Professors: Maidment, Upadhyaya, Dunn, Evans, Saha, Philbin; Associate
 Professors: Kellici, Axelsson, Goel and Durand; Senior Lecturers: Constantinou, Aristodemou,
 Memon, Jahanzad, Holborn, Zhao, Ingram, Benson, Buckeridge and Sajjad: Lecturers: Battersby.
 Research Fellow: Salimian, Davies.
 Associate members: Barber, Dudley, Ghavami, Berthaume, Tokhi, Sattar, Vilches.

 The centre originally focused on materials (Kellici, Axelsson, Saha, Jahanzad and Zhao),
 pollution modelling (Aristodemou), heating and cooling (Maidment, Evans and Davies) and
 fire and explosions (Holborn, Ingram). Our advanced materials strategy investment culminated
 in the ARTIC and POLYMERIC Innovation Centres in partnership with TWI. This has brought
 together academic and industrial expertise to further improve international recognition and broader
 networks access. In particular, Durand was recruited due to her industrial expertise in materials
 for energy and sustainability. Fundamental and translation material research expertise brought
 Upadhyaya, Dunn, Sajjad, Khamsehnezhad and Buckeridge; manufacturing (Goel, Kumar,
 Memon) and technique development (Bleay), affirms the centre’s commitment to international and
 excellent quality research. Within the fire and explosions area two ECR colleagues Benson and
 Battersby added expertise on hydrogen and fire safety directives with Ingram and Benson
 succeeding as leading academics for LSBU on a prestigious H2020 grant ENABLEH2.

 LCEE researches several aspects of the Energy sector providing the centre with broad
 impact:
  Clean & Sustainable Energy Technologies: photovoltaics (PV) and their scale-up; energy
    storage and integration with biomass and PV systems; lighting/display devices; clean air and
    water quality; precision manufacturing, additive and subtractive coatings of functional
    advanced materials;
  Energy Materials and Systems: materials synthesis (2D related, metal/metal oxides and
    quantum dots) applying to a range of energy harvesting devices e.g., electrochemical batteries
    and supercapacitors. Collaborations and capacity building structured around these clusters
    supporting the government target of net zero greenhouse emissions by 2050;
  Nanomaterials and Modelling: materials testing and performance evaluation at nanoscale;
    materials modelling to drive forward the advanced energy/manufacturing materials research
    for scale up manufacturing;


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Fire and Explosions: supports activities on explosion, fire safety and hydrogen hazards for
     sustainable applications; and
    Heating and Cooling: state of the art systems and technologies to minimise demand including
     advanced heat pumps, 5th generation energy systems, cryogenic energy storage, secondary
     heat sources and sinks, development of benchmarks and road maps and minimising
     refrigerant emissions.

 Successful exemplars are:
  Evans: PI CryoHub, €8m total funding: International leading work coordinated by LSBU on
    energy storage using liquid air. Funded by the EU (H2020 - IA) and involving 14 partners
    across Europe;
  Ingram and Benson (ECR) LSBU PI: ENABLEH2: EU (H2020 - RIA) involves 7 partners, 3
    universities and 4 companies across 5 countries aiming to mature critical technologies for
    liquid hydrogen-based propulsion to achieve zero mission-level CO2 and ultra-low NOx
    emissions. LSBU leading the safety and system modelling;
  Upadhyaya: SUNRISE: An international multidisciplinary program funded by GCRF/ EPSRC
    has evolved from one bilateral (Indo-UK) program APEX. It involves 12 partners across UK,
    India, South Africa and Mexico and has won the Times International Collaboration of the Year
    2020, http://www.sunrisenetwork.org/;
  Andrews PI: (ERDF / Interreg North West Europe a €3m Interdisciplinary project: Circular
    Economy for data centres (CEDaCI) includes designers, engineers, economists, materials
    experts, recyclers, behavioural scientists with international team consisting of 4 European
    countries with 10 research and industrial partners; and
  Durand (ECR): ISOPREP H2020 and SOLARSHARC (H2020 Fast Track to Innovation-
    FTI). ISOPREP is based on different underpinning technologies and industrial sectors. This
    large European collaboration has 10 partners in 6 countries focusses on recycling technology
    to facilitate the transition towards a circular economy. SOLARSHARC, a European
    collaboration aims to develop an anti-reflective and anti-soiling coating. This FTI project was
    successful with performance improvements of 2% (10% enhancement) measured by the
    Commission for Atomic Energy and Alternative Energies (CEA), France.

 (c) Cognitive Systems Research Centre (CSRC): (Leads: Dagiuklas/Tokhi)
 Core Members: Professors: Dagiuklas, Tokhi, Sattar, Patel; Associate Professors: Selig; Senior
 Lecturers: Cadenas, Chen, Child, Duan, Iqbal, Zhang; Lecturer Zhu.
 Associate members: Grisan, Harput, Dudley, Philbin, Ghavami, Lishman, Aristodemou, Memon,
 Chaouki, Axelsson, Aristodemou, Bleay, Davies, Salimian, Vilches and Upadhyaya.

 Original CSRC themes pivoted on Applied Systems (Patel, Child, Selig, and Chen) and
 Robotics, in particular Non-Destructive Testing (NDT) where the School partnered with The
 Welding Institute (TWI) Cambridge to create the London South Bank Innovation Centre (LSBIC)
 for Non-Destructive Testing (Sattar, Tokhi). Additional investment to create a research-rich digital
 innovation hub with a global reputation for innovation included adding expertise in smart cities, 5G
 (and beyond) and distributed systems (Dagiuklas, Zhu, and Iqbal) and Robotic-NDT
 intelligence/control augmentation (Tokhi, Duan). Collaboration with elite research groups from
 both academia and the industry in the field via joint research grants at both national and
 international level has ensued. In the REF period, collaborative research with more than twenty
 industrial partners has been directed at developing inspection robots for safety critical
 infrastructure in extreme environments (onshore and offshore).

 Exemplars of international success are:
  Sattar: TANKROB (In-service NDT of petrochemical storage tank floors and walls)
    H2020 FTI 1/09/2015, Ref: 701007: 5 partners across 3 countries spanning the entire tank
    inspection value chain capitalising on previous LSBU demonstration of a mobile robot
    (RobTankInspec) for in-service NDT of tank floors using ultrasound technology without
    emptying the tank. TankRob prompted rapid product market take-up by maximising the range

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     of tanks it can inspect and by validating the new system in an operational environment with
     ATEX certification. LSBU developed the sonar navigation system for the new robot;
    Sattar: RISERSURE: Rapid Integrity Assessment of Flexible Risers for Offshore Oil and
     Gas Installations H2020 FTI 1/09/2015, Ref: 730753 E: 5 partners across 4 countries:
     RiserSure™, is a product that assesses flexible riser pipes used in offshore oil and gas
     production. RiserSure uses a novel subsea digital radiography detector to perform sub-sea
     field trials. LSBU developed the robot capsule, deployed by a ROV, which rotated a Gamma
     ray source and digital detector around a riser at speeds of 0.03 rpm. Partners are making
     commercial and manufacturing preparations for product launch; and
    Dagiuklas: H2020 MSCA-RISE SONNET involves 2 SMEs and 2 universities from 4 EU
     countries researching issues in wireless system design, 5G networks and softwarisation,
     indoor positioning and ray tracing exemplifying a high degree of interdisciplinary collaboration.

 (6) Evidence of Applied and Impactful Research:

    Adhering to our University strategy that our research is applied, and focused for real-world
     impact and societal benefits, our local objective generates measurable impact by: (i)
     engaging user-groups/stakeholders in research from the development stage; (ii) promoting
     existing research across the centres to key stakeholders (including policy groups such as
     BEIS) and (iii) ensuring staff and students are aware of the needs for planned and evidenced
     impact through in house training from our REI and Impact manager.
    Industrially matched sources such as: KTP’s (5 KTPs from the school receiving good to very
     good in the last 5 years), industrially match-funded post-doctoral research collaborations
     (Dudley and UBT Italy), PGR university studentships, and Industrially match-funded PhDs
     e.g., Bond group UK (Andrews).
    Engagement in European co-funded industrial collaborations through projects such as the
     European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) Access to Innovation (A2i) and Simulation for
     Digital Health (SimDH) enables the UoA to have direct impact on SME operations. Exemplars
     of this are Dudley and Neuville Grid data Limited applying machine learning for solar farm
     fault-detection through the ERDF Low Carbon London Network. SME/LSBU match funding:
     Ghavami/Dudley collaboration with UBT Italy on cancer imaging was deemed so successful
     that UBT have set up a London office to establish a focussed industrial/research partnership.


 (7) Exemplars of impactful research collaborations (which also form our Impact case study
 submissions) during this REF period are:

    The IUK GreenSCIES project investigating innovative approaches to deliver ultra-low carbon
     mobility, power and heat as part of the local energy system in Islington, the West Midlands
     and in Sheffield City region (Maidment). This project has £3m of private funding leading to the
     development of an international centre of excellence in smart local energy system and
     provided detailed recommendations to Government;
    Maidment – Committee Report to Climate Change on Refrigerant Leakage; Report on
     Refrigerant Leakage to the Refrigeration Technical Options Committee (Maidment); Advisor
     to UK Government Chief Scientific Advisor – November 2018 onwards;
    Holborn/Ingram - Collaborations with Sellafield Ltd have informed and directed a research
     strategy to meet the challenge of hydrogen hazard management on the Sellafield site making
     a significant contribution to improving the safety of nuclear decommissioning and drastically
     lowering the cost of these activities with estimated savings of £100m;
    Philbin has created a range of models, processes and analytical tools to measure the
     impact of infrastructure projects against the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals
     (SDGs). This allows SDGs to be measured at the project level and across economic,
     environmental and social requirements. Application of the results from the research study are
     being actively used by the Environment Agency to manage impact assessment across its
     £5.2bn portfolio of infrastructure projects and by the Thames Tideway Project (£4.9bn);


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Dudley Inefficient heating in large non-domestic buildings (e.g., high-rise office space and
     shopping centres) is a major contributor to carbon emissions and climate change. Her work
     has helped to improve the efficiency of Building Energy Management Systems (BEMS, i.e.,
     the main controlling systems of large building heating and cooling) by using artificial
     intelligence to improve detection of BEMS faults. Working with Demand Logic Ltd, a UK based
     SME that produces buildings’ BEMS platforms to optimise energy savings), has brought about
     an improvement in their products leading to:
         o Reduced energy costs spend for their UK and EU clients by 10%-30%
         o About £1.8 million savings in annual energy costs
         o Annual savings of 11,800 tonnes of CO2 per year since 2016


                                  1.b (iii). Strategic Vision

 Over the next 5 years we will continue to grow our translational partnerships and internationally
 recognised research in the areas described. The School of Engineering will foster and grow our
 current academic-driven international collaborations with strategic countries such as, IIIT Bombay,
 India, COMSATs, Pakistan, Al-Khaliffa, UAE, and University of Oulu, Finland.

 We will concentrate resources on our existing areas of impact distributed across our centres,
 aligned with key priority areas reflecting societal and industrial needs (e.g. energy storage, zero-
 carbon, smart manufacturing and IoT, AI applications related to our centres, advanced materials
 for energy and sustainability, and biomechanics).

 Our aims are therefore to:
  Promote Staff development, by providing Cat. A staff with guaranteed one term study leave
    cycles every 3 years. This support, along with current mentoring, conference/networking
    provision, PGR scholarship offers will attracted and maintain excellent staff at various career
    stages, ensuring a long term, agile and collaborative community of scholars. A 20% increase
    in Cat. A staff engaged in research is targeted over the REF period.
  Leverage investment for University/Industrial co-creation through the establishment of a
    School based Innovation Centre (IC) in partnership with Croydon Council. - The IC will initially
    focus on our advanced material modelling and smart manufacturing capabilities, allocated
    space for companies working alongside the School, and to host match funded research
    partnerships and consultancy. Initial match-funding of £1m has been provided and the IC is
    supported by the Clarence Centre of Enterprise and Innovation. An increase of 25% research
    income through Industrial partnerships will be targeted over the next REF period.
  Alignment of this strategy with the institutional corporate strategy that is step-changing by
    increasing (by a factor of 3) the volume and quality of research for 2022 and beyond.
  We will instill a culture of engagement where Research Centres permeate into the teaching
    framework through extra-Curricular engagement with schools, communities and within our UG
    and PG offering. The promotion of Energy Engineering related Degrees and Higher Degree
    level apprenticeships – aligning with the University’s outreach programmes.
  Improve our international presence through further collaborations with elite research groups
    in our field (improved exposure and citations). A 20% growth in community partnerships will
    be targeted over the REF period.
  Continue with focused but cross-centre infrastructural investment: High Performance
    Computing for all centre and external client access, Low carbon Battery systems facilities,
    smart manufacturing lab spaces for Energy Centre teams (LSBU and Croydon sites) and
    applied biomechanical engineering space expansion.

 2. People

 Our staffing strategy has 2 main objectives:



                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    1. A recruitment and promotions policy that considers research track record, research fit and
       research potential.
    2. Provide mentoring and support, particularly for those in the early stages of their research
       career, and development opportunities for all staff, promoting a culture of research in the
       school.

 To achieve the first objective, our staffing strategy focused on recruiting and supporting the highest
 calibre colleagues at different career stages who share our vision of cross collaboration between
 disciplines, working with industry and who have an appropriate “fit” to the existing centres,
 ensuring sustainability.

 In the REF period 25 new staff (including 4 Chairs), 3 Associate Professors and 18 Senior
 Lecturers and Lecturers joined the School of Engineering (SoE); The flexibility to create these
 permanent roles evolved through retirements, a Voluntary Severance Scheme and university
 funding to replace and appoint strategically important posts, focusing on research quality and fit
 to the school. These roles enabled the School’s research to be extended to biomedical
 applications in ultrasound and image processing, biomechanics, energy engineering, materials
 manufacturing and material modelling.

 To achieve our second objective, the School has applied several local staff and PGR student
 support actions:

 Information availability and academic assistance. The university REI team, via the School
 management team (provides relevant monthly 2-hour talks to all research centre staff with updates
 regarding (1) promoting research from other LSBU schools that may be of interest to the Research
 Centres, (2) providing information and support on relevant grant calls, (3) grant writing workshops
 to support new and existing staff and final year PGRs. The School engages the Clarence Centre
 team to work with the research centres to understand the Research Centre aims and subsequently
 provide networking opportunities with related industrial contacts prompting engagement and
 communication with relevant stakeholders.

 Career development support. The appraisal and Annual University Research Audit (AURA)
 schemes introduced by LSBU are used at the School level to support staff in several ways such
 as: i) to identify training needs, ii) to review and agree individual targets, support raising output
 quality using journal subject areas as an objective quality indicator and iii) to help shape the future
 plans of individual researchers as well as their centres.

 The School provides all new permanent academic staff (and those returning from leave) with
 dedicated PhD funding scholarship (a least 1 home/overseas fees and stipend), access to
 research centre equipment/lab and access to funding of unique equipment for their needs. New
 academic staff and those returning from leave have a reduced teaching and administrative load in
 their first year with no teaching in the first semester. The School’s Technical Development
 Manager (TDM) also provides dedicated support with horizon scanning, partner searching and
 reach. The TDM also engages with PGR students and supervisors at Research Centre level to
 ensure she is aware of ongoing research, highlighting synergies, to support colleagues with
 relevant calls/networking opportunities in a timely fashion.

 Mentoring. The School promotes mentoring across all career stages. It is mandatory for new staff
 and forms part of their development pathway. Mentoring takes place with experienced staff (who
 have gone through training) supporting newcomers and staff who return after leave, or staff who
 would like to take on more day-to-day management roles within their Centre or the School. This
 helps staff focus on their academic and research plans, helping to focus personal development,
 appraisals and AURA obligations.

 PGR supervisor training. All PGR students and supervisors are members of the London Doctoral
 Academy (LDA). Workshops for all staff at different supervisory levels are managed by the


                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University’s Organisational Staff Development and Training Department as explained in the
 University statement.

 At School level supervisory training is carried out through effective mentoring. A more experienced
 staff member supports the new supervisor to a) helps them develop a PhD idea, advertise and
 interview prospective students. Following this the mentor b) ensures that their mentee has all the
 appropriate paperwork, understands the university PhD processes and highlights any changes.
 The mentoring supervisor is also requested to assist the ECR in developing an independent
 research and publishing career feeding into the appraisal process. Acting as second supervisor
 enables the mentor to help the ECR through student progress meetings and work with the
 supervisor and student through any issues that may arise.

 Enterprise engagement and training is carried out through school's own engagement with
 industry and our TDM, establishing networking days to promote centre research themes. Here
 industrial stakeholders are invited to campus for a day of presentations; lab tours, networking and
 meetings. The Clarence Centre Staff Development Team provides dedicated university level
 training on pitching, focussed promotion presentations and making your work accessible to non-
 experts.

 Fellowships and International staff appointments. Several personal research fellowships have
 been won by staff; Dagiuklas (H2020 MSCA RISE, Project SONNET, 2018), Ghavami (German
 Academic Exchange Service Fellowship, 2018; JSPS and Keio University Research Fellowships,
 2015, H2020 Marie Curie), Dudley (H2020 MSCA RISE, Project ROVER, 2020) Maidment
 (Mission Innovation, GreenSCIES) and Selig (University of Bologna, Italy, 2015).

 Research leadership and independence development is fully encouraged at all career stages
 through collegiate and collaborative working across international borders. Saha (British University
 in Egypt, £181k funding), Dagiuklas (National Technical University of Athens), Lishman (The
 University Centre in Svalbard, Norway, grant application), Buckeridge ECR (Harbin Institute of
 Technology, University of Limpopo, University of Southern California, Yonsei University, Kyoto
 University, Trinity College Dublin, several journal publications), Xiao (Changshu Institute of
 Technology, Tongji University Zhejiang College, joint publication), Memon ECR (Hokkaido
 University, Nizhny Novgorod State Technical University, Tianjin University, University of Nairobi,
 University Kebangsaan, joint publications)

 International staff appointments. Exemplars of incoming international staff appointments
 include Marie Curie Fellows (2018 Tiberi), and EPSRC funded research officers from Algeria and
 China (2014). Four emeritus professors and 7 visiting Professors have been hosted e.g. Professor
 Mamdouh Gadalla (British University in Egypt), Prof. Juan Lui (Guangzhou University, China),
 Professor Eduardo Motta Alves Peixoto (Nobel prize winner, Brazil), Mr. Robert Tozer
 (international Data Centre lead) and Jolyon Thompson (International ventilation expert).

 Sabbaticals. LSBU runs a central sabbatical application process where staff are encouraged to
 apply for ½ year sabbaticals. Examples of successful sabbatical experiences are Xiao (2018) and
 Andrews (2017), resulting in grant funding wins (Andrews), and new product spin offs for Biox
 (Xiao).

 Promotions. The University runs a yearly promotion round. Staff are supported via staff
 development team workshops and locally by their mentors to understand the requirements and
 processes to identify strengths and help master any difficulties. ECRs Iqbal, Harput, Lishman,
 Buckeridge and Berthaume, Sajjad were promoted to Senior Lecturer. Kellici, Goss, Durand
 (ECR) and Andrews were promoted to Associate Professor. Dudley and Xiao were promoted
 internally to Professor.



                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Equality and Diversity Indicators. This UoA is committed to equality, openness and inclusivity,
 with everyone treated with dignity and respect. In the UoA, women make up 30% of the Cat. A
 academic staff, 21% of our professorial staff declare themselves as women, and this is 60% at
 Associate Professor level. Staff who declare themselves Black, Asian Minority Ethnic (BAME)
 make up to 32% of the returned cohort. The school has a dedicated time at staff meetings to
 propose or highlight any general EDI issues and the school management team (Dean, DESE and
 DoRE) has an open-door policy for staff and PGR students (as well as via the student forum) to
 raise any concerns or to highlight good practice (an email is sent regularly to staff and PGR
 students about this). Women and BAME colleagues have held managerial roles in the school in
 the past decade. Director of Education and Student Experience (DESE) (1 BAME woman, 1 man);
 DoRE (1 BAME man, 1 woman), PGRC (1 man, 1 woman).

 The UoA ensures that its Research Committee is well represented and the university places a
 standard base time for Cat. A staff to do research in its code of practice and the school promotes
 LSBU’s shared parental leave and flexible working policy. Although academic appointments are
 devolved to Schools, LSBU’s central HR helps schools appropriately word their adverts to ensure
 there are explicit equality statements and that wording does not discourage but encourages
 potential applicants with protected characteristics, disabilities, BAME, women and those returning
 from leave to apply.

                                        Research Students:
 The 2015 implementation of our full and match-funded scholarships along with promoting our
 international presence has improved PhD recruitment and graduations as shown in the table
 below.

             2013/                                                         2019/July
                      2014/15    2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19                         Total
              14                                                            end 20
   Male        1         5          5          9          4         7         11           42
  Female       1         1          2          1          2         1          7           15
   Total       2         6          7         10          6         8         18           57

 The 2019/20 graduation cohort saw a 9-fold increase on 13/14 and comprised over 60% female
 graduates.

 School PGR recruitment is managed quarterly, pooling students with larger adverts. Applicants
 are distributed by the DoRE and interviews take place online or in person. Qualification checklists
 and project understandings also identify any training needs. All PGR students are provided with
 individual desk space, a dedicated PC, networked IT facilities, access to appropriate laboratory
 spaces and are required to register on the online monitoring system Haplo. The supervisory team
 comprises two supervisors with the main supervisor (Director of Studies) providing the technical
 input and the 2nd providing complementary technical and general guidance. If the scholarship is
 match-funded then an additional industrial supervisor may be added.

 All PGR students are supported by the London Doctoral Academy (LDA) offering a distinct PhD
 training program on professional and personal development running throughout the year which
 students must attend (research management, research skills and techniques, and transferable
 skills (communication and time management, personal effectiveness entrepreneurship and
 enterprise engagement).

 Locally students are supported through their centre in several ways: financially supporting student
 “get-togethers” to create a community spirit – this has continued online throughout the COVID
 pandemic; within Centre presentations to build confidence; group journal reviewing and critiquing
 with experienced academic staff members. Instrument and Facility training along with health and
 Safety checks are performed locally with appropriate academic staff and technicians. To ensure
 PGR students see beyond their own research, bimonthly seminars take place and are compulsory
 for Engineering PGR students. PhD students must present at the seminar in their 3rd year.

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 PGR Research Integrity is embedded through internal training and robust internal peer review of
 papers, plagiarism checking, research data description, collection and storage processes, ethical
 approval and data storage training. This is also promoted at UG and PG levels with PhD student’s
 speaking at UG and PG project lectures on the importance of what “Honest Research” means to
 them.

 PGR Ethical Approval (EA) training and execution: PGR students are provided with ethics
 training; EA: understanding the need, requirements and approval workshops; and how to engage
 with people effectively. At School level EA monitoring is performed on a one-to-one basis with our
 School Ethics Adviser (SEA) (Grisan). Following this students and supervisors must declare if
 their work will require or not require EA (or if circumstances change renew their EA application to
 reflect changes). All forms are sent to the SEA for approval with complex cases sent to the
 University Ethics panel for approval.

 Entrepreneurship and training engender strong interest among staff and PGRs. Match-funded
 PhDs, ERDF projects (students take on part-time research roles) along with staff/student
 engagement with the REI and Clarence Centre developing ideas with their supervisor. Exchange
 programmes such as our Newton-Mosharafa Fund Institutional Links programme in collaboration
 with the British University in Egypt (BUE) – “Sustainable production of biodiesel from waste
 cooking oil in Egypt,” Saha have brought success. Examples are a) Omar Aboelazayem, a joint
 PhD student between BUE and Saha was shortlisted in the top 45 from 800 applicants in the SET
 for Britain for his research “Biodiesel production from very low-quality waste cooking oil by a single
 step technology” and has moved towards private investment focus to develop their idea further b)
 Salimian won an Innovate UK ICURE (route to market) award with his PhD student on their
 research of plasmonic silver based thin films applied to silicon solar cells, resulting in ~10%
 enhancement in solar cell output.

 Student progress monitoring is centrally managed through the Haplo system. This comprises 2
 submissions per annum (an automated reminder and alert system is in place). Students present
 their progress and are interviewed by a panel (comprising the supervision team, panel chair and
 reviewer). In years 2 and 3 more emphasis by the panel is based on the research outcomes such
 as publications from results.

 The PGR coordinator (Kellici) monitors student progress via Haplo and reports to the School
 Research Committee. The Schools PGR student voice is led by the PGR student forum held termly
 within the school and student reps meet the PGR coordinator monthly, promoting a culture of
 communication between school management, staff and students.

 Additional support for PGR students includes:
     School funding to present work at least 1 major international conference
     The support and expectation to submit at least 1 high quality, thesis-based journal paper
        with open-access financial support.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research funding portfolio, including future plans
 Over this REF period the UoA attracted a total of £32.7m in grants/contracts as lead and
 collaborating institution (a 128% increase since the last REF), £16.3m of these were directly
 allocated to LSBU over the review period (a 69% increase since the last REF). Engineering income
 came from a healthy mix: EU (16%); Research Council and Royal Academy/Society grants (17%);
 Government including IUK (43%); and private matched and fully funded research collaborations
 with Industry (24%). Exemplars for each centre are provided below.




                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Biome: grants and contracts total £2.4m (2.56m as Lead Institution (LI) and collaborator (Co))
 with successes both at international and national levels comprising EU Fellowships, non-
 responsive RCUK, enterprise and industrial funding. Highlights include:
  EPSRC: DANCER EP/K002473/1 (Ghavami/Dudley, £911k to LSBU)
  EPSRC MMEAW EP/P030203/1 total £460k (Goss, £346k)
  H2020 WEBOING: UWB for bone fracture imaging (Ghavami/Dudley, £180k)
  EPSRC Piezoelectric Nano-Fibre Acoustic Sensors (EP/M026884/1) (Vilches, £230k)
  IUK/TSB: Energy Management and analysis (EP/M506734/1) LSBU academic lead total grant
    £760k partner with VERCO, Demand Logic and EDSL (Dudley, £210k to LSBU). IUK Intelligent
    ear protection Innovate UK with (Dudley, £200k)
  IUK Sub-Surface Produce Imager with partners NPL and M&SK (Dudley, £140k).

 LCEE has secured £9.7m income to LSBU (£25.6m as LI and Co) in international and national
 research contracts, enterprise and industrial collaborations since 2014.
  EU H2020 project: CryoHub: Evans grant Coordinator. Total funded value ~€8m, (LSBU
    £1.173m).
  EPSRC interdisciplinary centre: i-STUTE, EP/K011847/1 2012-2018 Total value £5.3m (LSBU
    £1.17m)
  Centre of Flammable Gas management with Sellafield (Holborn) (LSBU £730k)
  EU H2020 ENABLEH2 Project - €3.5m (Ingram/Benson) (LSBU €619k)
  EU H2020 EVERCLEAN (Durand) LSBU £595k
  EPSRC SUNRISE Platform Grant (Upadhyaya) LSBU £470k
  InUK GreenSCIES (I and II) - Green Smart Community Integrated Energy Systems, total
    amount £4m, academic PI Maidment (LSBU £400k).
  InTeReg: CEDaCI- The Circular Economy and Data Centres (Andrews Grant PI), Total
    amount €2.9 million, allocation to LSBU £230k
  EU H2020 Clean Sky 2 EFFICIENT Project 2016-2020 (Holborn/Ingram) (LSBU €150k)

 The CSRC has secured over £4.2m (4.58m as LI and Co) in international, national grants,
 enterprise and private funders since 2014, with exemplars below:
  H2020 FTI: RISERSURE Sattar (Total to LSBU £650k)
  H2020 FTI: TANKROB Sattar (LSBU £474k)
  H2020: FTI WLNPECTOR Sattar (LSBU £457k)
  H2020: BATHYSCAPHIC (Robotic Floor Thickness Monitoring of Hazardous Liquid Storage
    Tanks), Sattar, LSBU £255k)
  H2020 SONNET: Self-Organisation towards Reduced Cost and Energy per Bit for Future
    Emerging Radio Technologies. Dagiuklas, (LSBU £230k)
  IUK ROBO-PACK Sattar (LSBU £205k)
  IUK FSWBOT Sattar (LSBU £205k)
  IUK RADBLAD Sattar (LSBU £180k)
  KTP ITECH supplied Ltd., Patel (LSBU 178k)
  IUK Autonomous Phased Array Ultrasound Robotic NDT, Sattar, (LSBU £117k)
  H2020 SocialTruth Dagiuklas, (LSBU £112k)
  IUK Smart Surveillance of a Service Using Fog Computing, Dagiuklas, (LSBU £85k)
  Machine-based Learning Consultancy with Lambeth Council (Chen, £75k)

 Our future plans are to lead more grant consortia, further invest in materials and smart
 manufacturing, in particular the schools “Nature-inspired Precision Responsive Manufacturing”
 lab. BioE and CSRC has planned unique anthro-engineering laboratories combining biomedical,
 material science and AI. These will focus on biomechanics research, materials development with
 LCEE and affordable measurement solutions for prosthetics and gait analysis tools. We will also
 focus on our Green energy innovation centre with spending here is approximately £1m over 5
 years with another £1m expected from Industrial partnerships.



                                                                                        Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Investment on selected areas to enhance facilities and opportunities to develop higher TRL level
 research outcomes for future aspirations to lead on more grants and work with more industrial
 partners with a total of £4.5m spent on facilities and infrastructure.

 LCEE received investment of £2.9m comprising lab refurbishment, and industrially leading higher
 TRL equipment donations. The creation of a “Scaling up and Sustainable Innovation
 Laboratory” with equipment donations of a Quantum 2010 In-line pilot system to create of state-
 of-the-art efficient cells on glass, flexible foils including tandem cell development for over 30%
 efficiency valued £1.5m [SVS Ltd (UK)] and a Gas analyser System for the teams work on a
 patented diesel Particulate filter trial for global scale-up (£500k) [BP, UK]. Refurbishment of the
 “Thin Film PV Devices,” “Materials Characterisation” and “Optoelectronic Measurement
 laboratories with £280k worth of equipment including an XRD (Advanced8-Bruker, £70k) And an
 Edinburgh Photonic Instrument "FLS1000 Photoluminescence Spectrometer" for steady-state and
 time-resolved photoluminescence spectroscopy (£160k). Investment in a Nanoindentation
 instrument (£180k) is a commitment by the school to a unique UK based “Nature-inspired
 Precision Responsive Manufacturing” lab.

 The ARTIC and POLYMERIC teams have leveraged equipment through grant income and from
 the shared use of the LSBU facilities above. Pointed investments include an Elcometer taber
 [Ecometer Ltd] and a Thermal analysis system [Mettler Toledo UK] at £50k; two Fourier-transform
 infrared spectroscopy/ cooling System mini chiller [Fisher Scientific] totalling £60k, key enablers
 in higher TRL level projects ISOPREP and Solarsharc.

 BioE research facilities have been upgraded along with a fully instrumented anechoic chamber
 for antenna, phantom and prototype development with associated characterisation/test equipment
 (£50k). Dedicated PCB facilities and high-performance computing equipment for applied medical
 imaging, AI augmentation and non-camera based, non-wearable gait analysis algorithm
 development (Ghavami/Dudley/Grisan). Ultrasound (US) imaging (High-frame rate US scanner
 and amplifier (E&I, A150), £50k) along with a dedicated biomechanical lab set for installation in
 2021. Investment to July 2020 was £200k from LSBU funding.

 CSRC investment of £630k from LSBU including £350k for the London South Bank University
 Innovation Centre (LSBIC) on Non-Destructive Testing with TWI Cambridge, used to establish a
 workshop/laboratory and the Directors and research team’s office in TWI. Robotic NDT research
 gained infrastructure for wireless communications and intelligent control as well as a 3D spatial
 positioning Faro arm (value £90k) donated by TWI Ltd. Additional investment led to 5G centre
 research facility valued at £230k.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The research strategy has been to improve international presence, support staff to develop
 networks and to work effectively with Industry. Success highlights of leadership collaborations and
 contribution across the School are highlighted below:

 Leadership of consortia and industrial projects
  Evans (LCEE), coordinates the EU H2020 CryoHub project, aiming investigate and develop
    large scale cryogenic energy storage at refrigerated warehouses and food factories. ~€8.2m
    shared across 14 international partners EUREC and Dohmeyer (Belgium), CENER (Spain).
    CryoHub has recently published an assessment of policy and regulatory matters related to the
    deployment of energy storage technology at EU and national level. The report is the result of
    research and interviews with industry and policymakers. It also considers how this technology,
    if deployed at scale, could impact other energy and food industry stakeholder decisions with
    the possibility of reducing costs and emissions for the user and the wider system. It also
    evaluates the potential business cases.
  Andrews (LCEE) coordinates a EU InteReg NWE collaboration worth €3m for a EU Circular
    Economy Action Plan – CEDaCI providing leadership, advice and technical assistance on the
    Circular Economy and Critical Raw Materials (CRM) to 50 SMEs across North West Europe;

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     this includes training on use of the bespoke Circular Data Centre Compass (CDCC) on line
     tool developed at LSBU to support businesses (SMEs, non-profit and public bodies and
     manufacturers) to increase operational and business sustainability.
              o CEDaCI was selected as a good practice by the European Circular Economy
                  Stakeholder Platform in April 2021.
    Maidment (LCEE) is PI of the InUK grant GREENSCIES, a waste heat recycling and transfer
     consortium investigating affordable and meaningful ways to reduce and reuse wastage heat
     in urban environment using Smart Energy Grids (SEG). Partners include Islington Council and
     Transport for London (TfL). Concealed underground, the SEGwill provide power inner cities of
     the future, transforming homes and businesses into sustainable energy districts. GreenSCIES
     will deliver low carbon and low-cost transport, power and heat to a total of 12,500 homes in
     the London Borough of Islington and Sandwell in the West Midlands.
              o The new smart energy grid - has now reached design stage
    Holborn and Ingram (LCEE) research and leadership have had a significant impact on the
     safe management of hydrogen hazards, through its collaboration with Sellafield Ltd. This
     research work has helped Sellafield Ltd to:
              o Support a revolutionary breakthrough saving approximately £100,000,000 for
                  cleaning up the Sellafield site.
              o Designed a process to safely stack and store nuclear waste filled containers which
                  generate hydrogen as a by-product (~10,000 boxes each costing £60,000).

 International Research Collaborations with academia, industry and end users
  Goel (LCEE) is collaborating with the University of Manchester, Queens University Belfast,
     Cranfield and University of Sheffield on an EPSRC Digitalised Surface Manufacturing (DSM)
     NetworkPlus award to create networks and collaborations establishing already over 200
     academic members registered worldwide including International Centres of Excellence such
     as SEAM (Australia), GreenSEAM (Canada), NCFlexe (India), NPL (UK) and CIDETEC
     (Spain).
  Xiao (BioE) skin bioengineering work with UCL has been transferred into commercial products
     through the spin-out company Biox Systems Ltd. The University of Surrey also won an
     Innovate UK Industrial Secondment grant to work with Biox Systems Ltd to conduct
     mathematical modelling and data analysis for the AquaFlux and Epsilon instruments.
     Increased sales revenues (~£2.4m since 2014); ~240 machines, over 200 number customer
     organisations worldwide and a new patent application;
  Kellici (LCEE) is researching on 2D materials with the Flinders University (Australia), Max
     Planck Institute (Germany), VITO (Belgium) and the UK Universities of Cambridge, Cardiff,
     Imperial, Liverpool are informing innovative solutions to global challenges in water treatment,
     antibacterial resistance and catalyst development for CO2 utilisation.
  Salimian (LCEE) work on plasmonic solar cells and field emitting flat panels as a light source
     for indoor crop growth is being carried out with partners Kelenn Technology, France (Dye-
     sensitised solar cells and perovskite solar cells), Technische Universität Dresden, Germany,
     University of Melbourne, Australia, CEA Grenoble, France.
  Evans/Maidment/Revesz (LCEE) The REAL Zero project with the Institute of Refrigeration,
     Carbon Trust and 2 industrial partners has been cited in the revised EU FGAS2 proposals on
     HFC refrigerant use and has provided evidence for the Committee for Climate Change and
     UNEP’s Refrigeration Technical Options Committee feeding the Montreal Protocol.
  Dudley (BioE) is collaborating with 35 other countries on an EU Cost Action NEWFOCUS to
     establish optical wireless communications (OWC) as an efficient technology that can satisfy
     the demanding requirements of backhaul and access network levels in beyond 5G networks.
     This also includes the use of hybrid links that associate OWC with radiofrequency
     or wired/fibre-based technologies.
  Holborn/Benson ECR/Ingram/Maidment (LCEE) with London Fire Brigade have examined
     the causes and consequences of refrigeration fires in residential dwelling fires in UK and
     results have influenced policy and the development of safety standards.
  Holborn/Benson ECR (LCEE) along with Cranfield University, RISE (Sweden) and Airbus via
     the H2020 EFFICIENT project has resulted in the design, development, and testing of an


                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     environmentally friendly, halon-free, fire suppression system for aircraft cargo holds directly
     influencing EU plans to safeguard the environment, by completely phasing out the use of
     chemicals with Ozone Depleting Potential (ODP) in civil aviation cargo holds by 2040.
    Goel/Upadhyaya (LCEE) Through the Royal Academy of Engineering’s Transforming
     Systems through Partnership program have developed joint courses with the University of
     Johannesburg in South Africa as well as addressing gender balance in Engineering education
     in Rural India working with Krishna Institute of Engineering and Technology and India’s biggest
     construction conglomerate Larsen and Toubro Limited.
    Berthaume (ECR) (BioE) recently formed a collaboration with Mitt Wearables winning an
     Innovate UK bid (CRN 11026507) to bring upper limb prosthetics to Sri-Lanka.

 Consultancies and professional services
 The total value of consultancy contracts has typically been £300k pa over the review period.
 Examples include work for Sellafield Ltd advising on specific plant-related issues (LCEE). Heat
 recovery from waste with New Heat Development Ltd and environmental impact assessments for
 TT&E Environmental Consultants, Athens (LCEE); rooftop wind turbine performance with
 Southwark Council (LCEE), skin hydration imaging with Glomax Aesthetics (Singapore), Johnson
 & Johnson (Paris) and DSM Nutritional Products (Switzerland) (BioE); low temperature Si epitaxy
 for solar cells with Echerkon Ltd (LCEE); Eurofighter wing tip pod cooling and sustainable low
 carbon and renewable electrical and mechanical technologies for use in the retail sector for Tesco
 Ltd (LCEE). London Underground testing of PAHU’s and development of thermal storage systems
 for underground carriages (LCEE). Consultancy on Innovate UK grants for a company working on
 heating products (Vestemi) 2020 (BioE).

 Highlights of Esteem Factors, Editorships and participation in editorial boards
 Assoc. Ed: Multiferroic Materials 2010-; Ed Board: J Ceramics 2010-, Indian J Mat Sci 2012-
 (Axelsson); Ed Board: Materials Research Society (MRS Advances) 2012-2019; Ed Board: J
 Composite Science 2019 – ; Guest Ed (Special Issue): Frontiers in Mechanical Engineering and
 Frontiers in Materials 2017; Guest Ed (Special Issue) and Assoc. Ed: Journal of the Mechanical
 Behaviour of Biomedical Materials (Elsevier): Collagen Mechanics 2016 (Barber); Assoc. Tech
 Ed: IEEE Communications Magazine; Ed Board: IEEE MMTC Communications – Frontiers;
 EURASIP on Image and Video processing; Signal Processing: Image Communications 2016-
 (Dagiuklas); Ed: J Food Engineering 2005- (Evans); Assoc. Ed: IEEE Transactions on
 Ultrasonics, Ferroelectrics and Frequency Control (Harput ECR); Guest Ed (Special Issue):
 Mobile Networks & Applications, 2018; Guest Ed: EAI Endorsed Transactions on Collaborative
 Computing, 2019 (Iqbal); Ed Board: Euro-Mediterranean J Environmental Integration 2017-
 (Kellici); Ed Board: Green Processing and Synthesis J, 2012-; Ed Board: Reactions J, 2018 – ;
 Int Advisory Board: Canadian J Chem Eng 2013- 2017; Guest Ed (Special Issue): Energies J,
 2019 – 2020; Member: IChemE Research Publications (Journals) Medals Committee, 2010 -
 (Saha); Assoc. Ed: ASME J Mechanisms and Robotics 2012-; Assoc. Ed: (Selig); Ed-in-Chief: J
 Low Frequency Noise, Vibration and Active Control, 2013- ; Ed Board: International Journal of
 Modelling, Identification and Control, 2020 - ; Intelligent sound measurement sensor and system
 (Tokhi); Ed Board: J Cosmetics 2013- (Xiao); Ed Board: Petroleum & Petrochemical Engineering
 Journal; Assoc. Ed: Fluid Mechanics Research International Journal (Zhao); Ed-in-Chief: Intl. J of
 Solar Thermal Vacuum Engineering, 2020; (Saim); Ed Board: Materials 2020 - Guest Editor:
 Materials     2020      - (Buckeridge    ECR);       Guest     Editor, Special Issue   in     the
 journal Sustainability, 2020 –, Assoc. Ed, Engineering Management Journal, 2015 -, Editorial
 Board Member, Journal of Research Administration, 2013 – (Philbin); Editorial Board, Science &
 Justice, 2010 - (Bleay); Assoc. Ed: Journal of Solar Energy; Managing Guest Editor: Progress in
 Solar Energy (PSE) Special Issue for Perovskite Solar Cells (Upadhyaya); Assoc. Ed: Journal of
 Advanced Manufacturing Systems (Goel). Membership of national and international advisory
 boards and panels includes Mission Innovation Advisor to BEIS; EC expert group member;
 Australian Government Review; INSPIRE programme, British Council, DelPHE programme
 (Tokhi); Ranking proposals for future funding with Samsung under the Samsung Global Research
 Outreach (GRO) Programme (2015-2018) Tokhi); External reviewer in 2020 on faculty tenure
 panels for the University of Kentucky and Missouri University of Science and Technology and


                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 external examiner in 2020 for the University of Johannesburg (Philbin); Co-chair of the EPSRC
 funded Computational Collaborative Project in Quantum Computing 2020 – (Buckeridge ECR)

 Conference organisation and Invited talks
 International conference on efficient solar power generation and energy harvesting 2019, Solar
 Energy PV from 2019 at KIIT, Bhubaneshwar (Upadhyaya); Conference Chair for Tomography
 for Scientific Advancement 2017 (Barber); Conference General Chair, CollaborateCom 2019 and
 2020 EAI International Conference on Collaborative Computing: Networking, Applications and
 Worksharing, (Iqbal); International Conference on Climbing and Walking Robots and Support
 Technologies for Mobile Machines, Portugal 2017 (Sattar); International Conference on Standards
 of Assistive Technology and Robots for Health Care 2019, International Conference on
 Nanomaterials and Nanocomposites 2018, (Tokhi); Invited Talks in the International Conference
 on Photoacoustic and Photothermal Phenomena 2017 and 2019 (Xiao); 3 Invited/keynote talks at
 international conferences including Msnano-20, Conference on Advances in Theoretical and
 Applied Physics 2020, and International Conference on Material Science and Nanotechnology
 (Sajjad); Invited Presentations at the American Society for Engineering Virtual International
 Annual Conference, 2020, International Forum on Engineering Management (IFEM), Chinese
 Academy of Engineering, Jinan, 2019(Philbin);Keynote at both ICCC (International Cold chain
 Conferences) in Auckland 2016 and Beijing 2018, IIR Rankine 2020 Conference - Advances in
 Cooling, Heating and Power Generation, 2020; (Evans); Invited presentation at Chartered Society
 of Forensic Sciences conference, 2020 (Bleay); Invited presentations at LSE Bankside House
 2019, Thomas Young Centre, Imperial College London 2018, Workshop on Thermoelectric
 Materials for Waste-Heat Harvesting, India 2018 (Buckeridge); Organiser and Chair
 of International Conference on Renewable Energy and Vacuum Insulations for NZEB’s 2019, and
 invited speaker in the World Sustainable Energy Days, Austria, 2019, Workshop on How Resilient
 Manufacturing can solve the unemployment problem in Kenya, 2018 (Memon); EC Glass Forum
 / Tough coatings for a fragile substrate, 2019, Berlin- oral presentation – invited Keynote speaker
 - Novel nano-additives to enhance the durability of functional surfaces for Glass. MacroGroup UK
 Young Researchers Meeting, 2019 - oral presentation – Invited Keynote speaker - Opportunities
 in novel Nano-additives to enhance the durability of functional surfaces for industrial application
 (Durand); Organiser of Symposium ES03: Earth Abundant Metal Oxides, Sulfides and Selenides
 for Energy Systems and Devices, MRS Fall (2017) (Dunn).

 Prizes and awards
 Highly Commended Award in the “Energy” category for IChemE Global Awards 2014 (Saha); 1st
 prize in the "Materials Innovation for the 21st Century" and the “Increased Manufacturing Value”
 categories at the ChemEngDayUK 2014 (Kellici); Highly Commended award in the Process
 Safety category of the IChemE Global Awards (2015) (Holborn, Ingram); H&V News
 Collaboration of the year 2015, CIBSE best paper, 2015, (Maidment); 2015 Emerald Literati
 Network Highly Commended Paper of 2014 selected by the Editorial team of the Industrial Robot
 Journal, Emerald publications (Sattar); Highly Commended Award for practical innovation by
 Emeral Publishing at CLAWAR2020 (Tokhi); best paper at Sustainable Innovation 2017
 conference (Andrews); Dstl ‘Innovator of the Year’ award, 2017, and Chartered Society of
 Forensic Sciences PW Allen Award (Bleay). Highly commended for the 2020 ICHEM E Global
 award for the ICEMART project (Durand). Goel was highlighted in ARCHER’s 2018 Video
 Competition Gallery of 2018 revealing new insights into the wear of diamond while rubbing iron.
 Sajjad (ECR) has been recognised as one of 2020 emerging investigators in the field of energy
 and materials chemistry by the Royal Society of Chemistry.

 National/international advisory board membership, peer review process participation
 Exemplars include EPSRC Peer Review College (Evans, Maidment, Saha, Goel, Upadhyaya);
 Cyprus University of Technology awards (Evans); Dutch Technology Foundation STW; FP7
 SUNGREEN consortium 2011-15 (Axelsson); Member: Hydrogen London Group 2012-
 (Holborn); Advisor to Committee to Climate Change on Refrigerant Leakage, Report on
 Refrigerant Leakage to the Refrigeration Technical Options Committee, Advisor to International
 Initiative - Mission Innovation - Affordable Heating and Cooling of Buildings as co-lead with 24


                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 countries worldwide, and Advisor to UK Government Chief Scientific Advisor – November 2018 -
 (Maidment).

 Leadership roles in industry, learned societies or professional bodies
 Examples include Materials Research Society (elected) 2012-2019, Royal Microscopical Society
 Electron Microscopy Section Chair (elected) (Barber); Member of ISO UK Steering Committee
 for the development of an ISO on Transport Refrigeration, 2018- (Davies); Chair of BSI AMT10-
 1-Ethics of Robots and Autonomous Systems Committee 2012-; Convenor of ISO/TC299/WG2 –
 Service Robot Safety 2017-;Chair of CLAWAR Association 2015- (Tokhi); Chair, Inst
 Refrigeration (IOR) Int Refrigeration Committee 2008-, UK IOR international representative to the
 IIR, 2007–, President of IIR C2 committee (Food Science and Engineering), Vice president IIR
 CaRe sub commission, and Vice president cold chain in warmer climates sub commission
 (Evans); Director, Air Conditioning and Refrigeration Industry Board, 2013-, Chair IOR research
 network, 2008-, Vice-Chair Int Working Group on Refrigerant Containment, 2009-, President Inst
 Refrigeration, 2013-16, Vice President - Commission E2 Heat Recovery and heat Pumps – Intl
 Inst Refrigeration 2014-, Vice Chair – International Working Group on mitigation of leakage of
 refrigerants – Intl Inst of Refrigeration, Chair of the IOR Research committee SIRACH 2008- ,
 Advisor to BEIS and co-lead of Mission Innovation Affordable Heating and cooling of buildings
 2018 - (Maidment); Vice-Chair, IChemE Fluid Separation Special Interest Group (FSSIG) 2011-
 (Saha); Co-founder & Director, Biox Systems Ltd 2000-(Xiao); Board of Directors and President
 of the ASEM (Philbin) 2014-; Vice-chairman The IET East Midlands YP 2014 (Saim); Forensic
 Advisor to Dstl , UKAS ISO17025 Technical Assessor for Fingerprint Enhancement Laboratories,
 and member of the Defence, Safety and Security Subcommittee, IOM3 2010 – (Bleay); Member
 of IEEE 1932.1 Standard 2020- (Iqbal).




                                                                                          Page 19
