Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Lancaster University

 Unit of Assessment: 17 Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
1.1 Context

In September 1964, 296 undergraduates, 36 postgraduates and 10 academics came to Lancaster
from across the UK to be ‘part of something new’ – a ground-breaking management school with
two departments, Operational Research and Economics. Now quadruple-accredited and world-
ranked, Lancaster University Management School (LUMS) is a vibrant international, diverse and
enterprising community.

Sustaining our proud history of management learning and impactful SME collaboration, we push
boundaries and defy conventions to deliver excellence (Table 1) through inclusive interdisciplinary
research that engages with society’s Grand Challenges, such as organisational performance &
good work, productivity, and sustainability.

Today, 187 FTE researchers work across six Departments generating innovative insights and
outputs that are cited the world over (Table 2). We collaborate with SMEs, family businesses,
multinationals, NGOs and policymakers, to create local, regional, national and international impact.

Table 1: Evidence of Sustained Performance
  Indicators                       RAE       RAE            RAE         REF        REF
                                   1996      2001           2008        2014       2021
  Publications in world-leading    n/a       n/a            n/a         53         221
  journals
  Peer-reviewed publications       598       755            1139        2934       3093
  Peer-reviewed publications per   8.6       10.6           10          15.77      14.8
  capita
  Citations per capita             8.3       28.6           39.9        66.6       82†
  (Incites/SciVal)
  Research income (£m)             1.97      1.53           9.25        13.54      14.46
  Engagement income (£m)                                                18         15.5
  Engagement return (per £1)                                            18         28
  PhDs awarded                     56        95             154         169        225
† Includes 43 Early Career Researchers (ECRs)




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Table 2: Evidence of LUMS Research Impact: SciVal Citation Benchmarks 2014-2019 (updated
20/11/20)
  SciVal Citation     Scholarly Citation Citation per Field-            Outputs in Outputs in
  Count (Business     Outputs    Count     publication Weighted         top 10      top 10
  Management &                                          (FW) Cite-
                                                             †          percentile percentile
  Accounting)                                           Impact          (FW)        (no FW)
  LUMS                1544       17999 11.1             2.06            24.7        381
  City                1134       13692 12.1             1.98            22.7        257
  Imperial            899        15024 16.7             2.64            29.0        261
  LBS                 704        9237      13.1         1.73            19.2        135
  LSE                 1469       14128 9.6              1.77            21.3        313
  UCL                 1572       12043 7.7              1.62            19.5        307
  Bath                954        11651 12.2             2.05            24.7        236
  Cambridge           1757       21011 12               2.07            22.8        401
  Oxford              1859       16965 9.1              1.95            22.4        416
  Warwick             1679       20844 12.4             2.25            25.1        422
  Totals/Averages 1357           15259 11.6             2.01            23.14       313
 † Field-Weighted Citation Impact. 1.00 indicates publications are cited at world average for similar

publications.

As signatories to the Civic Universities Charter, LUMS continues to invest in extending the impact
and reach of our research, using the AREA framework to guide Responsible Research and
Innovation (RRI):
    Anticipating change by understanding opportunities for impact via Impact Accelerator
       Account funding activities (£92k);
    Reflecting on the purposes and implications of research in interdisciplinary collaborations
       through School and University Research Centres and Institutes.
    Engaging with diverse stakeholder communities via our Engagement Team (£276k pa);
    Acting to connect non-academic communities with the research process, via new Media
       and Communications support and central Lancaster University Press Office (£95k pa).

Our investments supported researchers to secure £14.46m research income and £15.5m
engagement funding during REF2021.

1.2 Strategy 2014 – 2020

In REF2014, we outlined our strategic vision and culture, prioritising four key objectives to 2020:

      Aim Higher. We set an ambitious target of 80% of staff consistently producing research at
       level 3 and above; according to our internal peer review process, we achieved 94%. Table
       1 and Section 1.3.2 provide further evidence.
      Support ECR Development. We expanded support by introducing three-year mentoring,
       reformed probation and review processes, and discipline-specific, career-level performance
       profiles. Fifty-five lecturers were promoted to Senior Lecturer, and 24 Senior Lecturers to
       Professor (see Section 2)
      Double EU Funding. EU funding trebled from £755k to £2.318m (see Section 3).
      Develop International Research Networks. We pursued collaborations with top-100
       universities e.g. MIT REAP and OPTIFRAME, with MIT; and Responsible AI for Labour
       Market Equality, with McGill and Toronto on Advisory Board (see Section 4).


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our strategy and achievements position LUMS as a leading internationally oriented Management
School, built upon long-established bodies of expertise and an open and inclusive research
environment that prioritises equality, diversity and respect (Table 3).

Table 3. Evidence of Vibrant Research Community
 Indicators                                                      REF 2014        REF 2021
 Editorial roles, including editorial board membership, with     111             338
 leading journals                                                (57)            (115)
 (Editor or Associate Editor positions)
 Keynote presentations at leading conferences/research           120             117
 workshop
 Research seminars hosted in LUMS                                625             647
 (with Visiting International Scholars)                          (200)           (362)
 Sabbaticals taken in REF2021 (in person months)                 562.5           782

Our equality ambitions and staffing strategy (Section 2), enabled us to almost double international
research staff numbers (from 72 to 125, Figure 1). We continue to grow diversity; in 2020, the
LUMS Leadership Team is gender balanced.

Figure 1. Faculty International Diversity by Region and Gender
(Snapshot 4th January 2021)




Our Open Access practices (Section 2) and the University’s Code of Practice underpins good
governance, ensuring all our research respects the dignity, rights, and welfare of participants,
researchers and third parties.




                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.3 Structure

LUMS researchers work across eight interdisciplinary Research Centres and six Departments. We
also work closely with the Work Foundation (WF), the new Health Innovation Campus (HIC) and
the four University-wide Research Institutes (Figure 2).

Situated in the heart of London and an integral part of LUMS, the WF transforms people’s
experience of work and the labour market. In REF2021 the WF was awarded more than £4.36m in
funding and delivered 177 commissioned projects, working with 28 researchers engaged
with employers, policymakers and practitioners.

The HIC is a new, £41m, cross-University platform engaging our economic, organisation and
marketing scholars in research and outreach projects that transform the provision and mobilisation
of care, develop supporting technologies and inform health economies.

Figure 2. LUMS Research Structure




                                                                                           Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.3.1 Interdisciplinary Research Centres

LUMS’ interdisciplinary Research Centres represent a substantial body of knowledge, synthesising
disciplinary expertise. Centres are instrumental in developing a focused, vibrant research
ecosystem, supporting virtuous circles of external relationships, funded research and engagement
activities. Centres engage with practice and policy-driven Grand Challenges: Economic Growth
(Financial Econometrics, Asset Markets and Macroeconomic Policy [FEAMMP]); Productivity and
Innovation (Productivity; Family Business); Climate Change and Sustainability (Pentland), Data
and Digital Transformations (Technological Futures); Mobility (Transport and Logistics); and
Market Behaviour and Demand (Consumption Insights; Market Analytics and Forecasting).

Research Centres capitalise on departmental expertise, expanding our twenty-year management
learning legacy in SME and supply chain transformation. Working across the Departments,
Centres generate in-depth understanding of development needs, enabling us to respond quickly to
three types of opportunity.

First, Centres connect research expertise to funders’ priority areas, acting as vehicles for
interdisciplinary funding bids and high-impact research (Table 4).

Table 4. Examples of Funding
 Funding Body and Project                                                              £s
 Productivity
 EU Horizon 2020 ‘I AM RRI’ Additive Manufacturing (15 international partners);        £172k
 Spring, Sutanto D.
 Norwegian Research Council Measures for improved availability of Medicines            £150k
 and Vaccines’; Selviaridis
 Transport & Logistics (CENTRAL)
 EPSRC ‘RESPOND-OR’; Zografos, Sutanto J.                                              £510k
 EPSRC ‘OR-MASTER’; Zografos                                                           £2.3m
 Technological Futures
 EU Horizon 2020 ‘Mobile-Age’; Hayes, Introna                                          £710k
 DCSM: 5G Rural Integrated Testbed; Mason                                              £249k

Second, Centres deliver civic engagement, working through the challenges faced by business,
policymakers and wider society to co-produce solutions through collaborative management
learning (Table 5). For example, CENTRAL is managing a six-year £2.3m EPSRC Programme
Grant on Airport Capacity Management. The Pentland Centre for Sustainable Business was
launched with an initial £500k five-year grant from The Rubin Family Foundation, with a £625k
five-year renewal in 2020. It organises open and company-based events bringing non-academic
audiences into dialogue with LUMS academics. The Work Foundation hosts many Centre events
across the UK, drawing on extensive business and policymaking networks to extend reach.

Third, Centres originate, nurture and sustain long-term and impactful relationships with strategic
partners. For example, the Centre for Productivity promotes and matures links with government
departments including the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS)
(Garner, Spring). FEAMMP supports links with HM Treasury (Walker) and works with Invesco
Quantitative Strategy, Timberlake Consultants, ECB, the Bank of Greece, the Bank of England, the
Association of EU Fiscal Councils, and the Federal Reserve Bank. CENTRAL works with the
International Air Transport Association, London Heathrow and Gatwick Airport, the National Air

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Traffic Service, Athens International Airport, Eurocontrol, and others; Research Centre activities
contributed to our REF2021 Impact Cases Studies.

Table 5. Examples of Engagement Events
 Events                                           Partners & Organisations Engaged
 Productivity
 Productivity Connections Workshop Series         Northwest Business Leadership Team,
 (May/June/July 2018)                             Work Foundation, 23 SMEs. Cisco UK,
                                                  BEIS, OECD, TUC, CBI. 20-50
                                                  organisations attended each event.
 The Outside View: Innovation Networks            Cabinet Office Open Innovation Team and
 (February 2018)                                  HM Treasury: 20 policymakers and officials
 Industrial Strategy and the Future of            Work Foundation: 54 organisations and
 Manufacturing in the UK (September 2018)         policymakers represented.
 CMAF
 Improving Forecasting in Your                    Bespoke events with Beiersdorf; 300
 Organisations (on-going)                         participants to date.
 Improving forecast quality in practice           Open Event, 40 organisations
 (Dec. 2014)
 Forecast Performance Measurement &               Open Event, 147 organisations
 Value Added (March 2017)
 Technological Futures
 Mobile-Age public demonstration of digital       Campus in the City event designed to
 apps developed to connect elderly people to      engage public in Lancaster City Centre
 valued services and communities
 (March 2017; April 2018)
 Artificial Intelligence and the Future of Work   Work Foundation, Cisco, OECD, British
 (September 2018)                                 Telecom, Cabinet Office, TUC, c.50
                                                  participants from Industry, Government,
                                                  Unions, EU, Academics
 Making Policy Impacts                            IBM, OECD, Brookings
 Pentland
 Sustainability: Why it Matters & How We          Nestlé
 Think about It (March 2017)
 Climate risks disclosure consultancy –           Nestlé
 helped Nestlé develop novel TCFD
 reporting (Dec 2018; July 2020)
 Arctic Basecamp Davos, raising business          World Economic Forum; World Business
 climate change awareness (Annually               Council for Sustainable Development; World
 January 2017- 2020)                              Resources Institute




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.3.2 Disciplinary Excellence in Departments

Interdisciplinary excellence is grounded in discipline-based Departments with long-standing
reputations for producing significant research. Departments facilitate lone scholarship and peer
community collaboration, mentoring and supporting individual researchers throughout their careers
to help them become leaders in their fields. Departments use Quality Research funding to
strengthen research in new and emerging disciplinary areas, maintain interdisciplinary national and
international priority programmes, and grow research talent and strategic partnerships.




                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Accounting & Finance (ACF)




ACF influences academic communities, industry and governmental policy across four research
themes: Bank Accounting & Regulation; Banking & Corporate Finance; Corporate Governance &
Auditing; Asset Pricing & Financial Econometrics. A vibrant PhD programme supports visits to
leading US departments (Duke, Michigan, Columbia) and places graduates in faculty roles at high-
ranked schools (Bocconi, Cass, Monash). Researchers lead FEAMMP (Nolte) and the European
Banking Center (Ioannidou).

Table 6: Academic excellence in ACF
 FTE staff          40.09     Peer-reviewed articles                240
 World-leading      66        Including: Accounting, Organizations and Society, Journal
 publications†      (28%)     of Accounting Research, Review of Financial Studies,
                              Review of Accounting Studies, Journal of Financial
                              Economics, and Management Science, The Accounting
                              Review, Journal of Accounting and Economics
 Research funding £1.09m Including: ESRC, Leverhulme Trust, ICAEW
 Events Organised     Conferences/workshops: 24           Seminars: 140
 Distinguished        Hribar (Iowa); Myers (Tennessee); Shakespeare (Michigan);
 visitors             Andersen (Northwestern); Cornelli (London Business School);
                      Masulis (UNSW); Zechner (WU, Vienna)
  International       British Accounting and Finance Association Distinguished Academic
  standing            Award winners (Peasnell 1995; Unerman 2016); prestigious
                      fellowships (Ioannidou, CEPR; Unerman, Academy of Social
                      Sciences), and advisory positions (Ioannidou, Financial Stability
                      Board Academic Advisor; Unerman and Young, ICAEW Research
                      Advisory Board; Peasnell, Financial Reporting Council Academic
                      Panel; Unerman, Prince of Wales’s Accounting for Sustainability
                      Project Expert Panel)
  Engagement          Close links and advisory positions to: CEPR, Bank of England, Bank
                      of International Settlements, European Central Bank, Financial
                      Stability Board, International Monetary Fund, World Bank.
† Judged by peer review (Tables 6-11).




                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Examples of expertise:

      The Financial Conduct Authority uses Young’s research on textual analysis of companies’
       annual reports to improve detection of financial reporting irregularities in its market
       monitoring. Young’s team’s methods enabled one of the world’s largest asset managers,
       handling more than £300bn from 2.4m clients, to develop investment tools.

      Ioannidou was appointed as Academic Advisor for the international Financial Stability
       Board’s (FSB) evaluation of too-big-to-fail (TBTF) reforms for systemically important banks.
       These reforms have been implemented in FSB jurisdictions over the past decade.
       Novotny-Farkas, O’Hanlon and Hashim’s insights contributed to two commissioned
       reports to the European Parliament’s endorsement process for IFRS 9 Financial
       Instruments.

      Hong, Martin-Utrera, Nolte I&S, Shackleton, Vikas and Wang G’s insights into portfolio
       optimisation, asset pricing dynamics, volatility modelling, high-frequency financial
       econometrics, individual trading behaviour, mutual funds and real estate resulted in the
       ESRC-FWF “Order Book Foundations of Price Risks and Liquidity”. The work has impacted
       the Financial Conduct Authority, the Bank of England and the US Securities and Exchange
       Commission.




                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Economics




Economics nurtures a widening international network across five research themes: Behavioural
and Experimental Economics; Education, Labour and Health Economics; Industrial Organisation
and Economic Theory; Macroeconomics and Financial Markets; and Political Economy,
Development, and International Trade. Economics launched the Andrews and Brunner Lectures,
with two Nobel Prize winners, and organise the annual International Workshop on Applied
Economics of Education and the annual Lancaster Game Theory Conference. They hosted two
North West Social Science Doctoral Training Partnership (NWSSDTP) PhD Conferences, created
the NWSSDTP Summer School, and achieved 24 ESRC scholarships and CASE Awards with
industrial partners (e.g., The Bank of England).

Table 7: Academic Excellence in Economics
 FTE staff        37.9         Peer-reviewed articles                  538
 World-leading    100(19%) Including: American Economic Review, Econometrica,
 publications                  Review of Economic Studies, American Journal of Political
                               Science, Journal of Politics, and Nature.
 Research         £890k        Including: ESRC, Leverhulme Trust, Nuffield Foundation,
 funding                       UK Govt Depts of Education & DFID, UN
 Events           Workshops: 24               Seminars: 236 (111 international speakers)
 Distinguished    McComb (Texas Tech Office of Economic Development), Hansen
 visitors         (Wisconsin-Madison), Bingley (SFI), Morley (Sydney), Porter
                  (Northwestern), Tong Li (Vanderbilt), Kastl (Princeton) and Nobel Prize
                  winners Roth (Stanford) & Smith (Chapman).
 International    Johnes (founding editor, 1993) and Bradley (succeeding editor) made
 standing         Education Economics the leading journal in its field. Zanardi, Co-
                  Director of the European Trade Study Group (ETSG) and European
                  Parliament advisor for the Trade Remedies Investigations Directorate.
                  Walker, Director of Education Economics Research at IZA, Bonn.
                  Tsionas, Board of the Greek Fiscal Policy Council. Peel, in top 2%
                  most-cited economists (RePEc), Winter, International Game Theory
                  Society, council member, and Fellow, Economic Theory Society
 Engagement         Researchers work with policymakers, including: DfE, BEIS, Cabinet
                    Office, DFID, the United Nations’ University (UNU-WIDER), Bank of
                    England, Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas and the World Bank. Annual
                    Lancaster Workshop on Macroeconomic and Financial Time Series
                    Analysis involves European and US central bank officials.




                                                                                        Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Examples of expertise:

      The UK and Israeli governments called on Winter’s Game Theory insights (Mental
       equilibrium and strategic emotions and Rule Rationality [Management Science]), when
       considering Covid-19 exit strategies.

      Walker led research for the UK Department of Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS, now
       BEIS) and Department for Education on Higher Education, earnings and the cap on student
       numbers. His was the only work cited by HM Treasury to support the removal of the UK
       undergraduate numbers cap.

      The LUMS Housing Observatory provide publicly available housing market indicators, and
       analysis that monitors real-time risks and stability (Paya, Pavlidis, Peel). They collaborate
       with the Bank of England and the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas.




                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Entrepreneurship & Strategy (ENST)




ENST formed in 2019, bringing together scholars from Entrepreneurship, Strategy, Leadership,
Management Learning and Innovation. Research themes in responsible management include:
Individual and Organisational Transformation; Collaborative Development; and Managing Across
Boundaries. Researchers engage with SMEs and large organisations, developing research and
management learning programmes that deliver research-led impact and address real-world
challenges.

Table 8: Academic Excellence in ENST
 FTE staff         23.37       Peer-reviewed articles                  514
 World-leading     102         Including: Academy of Management Journal, Strategic
 publications      (20%)       Management Journal, and Entrepreneurship Theory &
                               Practice.
 Research          £1.89m Including: ESRC, Leverhulme Trust, BA, GCRF, Horizon
 funding                       2020
 Events            Writing Retreats: 18                  Seminars: 82
 Distinguished     59 visiting international scholars.
 visitors
 International     24 invited international conference Key Notes; Chair, Academy of
 standing          Management Entrepreneurship Division (Jack); Chair, British
                   Academy of Management (Mason); distinguished member, Latin
                   American Research task group for IFERA (Discua-Cruz).
 Engagement          Collaborations include: UK Cabinet Office, Ernst & Young, Sellafield,
                     Siemens, Stevenage BioScience Catalyst and more than 200 SMEs.
                     61 Entrepreneurs in Residence (EiR) facilitate engaged teaching and
                     research; leading Global Business Schools Network initiative to build
                     global EiR network.

Examples of expertise:

      Campopiano’s insights into innovation in family firms through the Centre for Family
       Business (with Dada, Discua Cruz, De Massis) and Iszatt-White & Kempster’s research
       on Authentic Leadership inform management learning programmes (ERDF Cumbria Forum,
       Productivity through People, Made Smarter), helping SMEs improve management practice
       and increase productivity.




                                                                                         Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Stead’s research through the Academy for Gender, Work and Leadership into women’s
       leadership representations led to a £509k H2020 grant to establish an EDI Observatory, in
       collaboration with Athens University of Economics and Business (with Alkhaled, Leitch),
       focusing on business school gender issues.

      Bauer’s M&A research (Strategic Management Journal, c.400 citations), forms part of
       ongoing M&A and strategy research programmes supported by collaborations with EY, AL-
       KO and Siemens (with Demir, Friesl, Raswant, Strobl).




                                                                                         Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Management Science (ManSci)




ManSci research activities focus on five themes: Optimisation; Transport & Logistics; Marketing
Analytics and Forecasting; Supply Chain Management; and Information Systems. ManSci is an
international centre of excellence in ECR development, nurturing talent through the NATCOR
Taught Course Centre; the STOR-i Doctoral Training Centre (Section 2) and CENTRAL’s
involvement with CREST-OR to train South-East Asia ECRs. ManSci leads three LUMS research
centres: CENTRAL (Zografos), CMAF (Fildes) and Productivity (Spring). The Rothkopf Rankings
rate Lancaster 6th in the world (outside the US) for contributions to Operational Research practice
during the past 50 years.

Table 9: Academic Excellence in ManSci
 FTE staff       34.37          Peer-reviewed articles                   898
 World-leading   169 (19%) Including: Journal of Operations Management, MIS
 publications                   Quarterly and Operations Research
 Research        £4.08m         Including: EPSRC, ESRC, H2020, Leverhulme Trust, BA
 funding
 Events          Workshops: 43                   Seminars: 92, (58 international speakers)
 Distinguished   53 international visiting scholars, including Odoni (MIT),
 visitors
 International   48 editorial roles at highly-regarded journals, including Information
 standing        Systems Research, Journal of the AIS, Journal of Operations
                 Management, Management Science and Operations Research.
                 Boylan, NATCOR Director, International Society for Inventory
                 Research past president; Eglese, European Association of OR
                 Societies past president; Ehrgott, International Society on Multicriteria
                 Decision Making past president; Glazebrook, EPSRC Mathematical
                 Sciences Strategic Advisory Team member; Hendry and Spring, Board
                 of EUROMA; Zografos, EPSRC Mathematical Sciences Strategic
                 Advisory Team, Transportation Research Board (USA).
 Engagement      Doctoral projects part-funded by industry (19), industry-led masters’
                 projects (322), CMAF-run executive training programme and
                 practitioner workshops. R, Python and Julia packages made open
                 access. Hosted 60th OR Society Conference; International Forecasting
                 Symposium.




                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Examples of expertise:

      Logistics, energy, telecommunications, healthcare organisations use insights into discrete,
       stochastic dynamic and multi-objective optimisation (Letchford, Dokka, Glazebrook,
       Ehrgott, Jacko) produced in collaboration with STOR-i, CENTRAL and the Data Science
       Institute. For example, Ehrgott’s work is being used to optimise radiography treatments.

      Supply chain management research revealed how Service Triads, institutional complexity
       and sustainability, shape cooperation and competition between firms (Spring, Hendry,
       Stevenson, Hughes, Selviaridis). This informed NHS and public procurement policy, and
       organisational practice at engineering firms and SMEs.

      Insights into social sharing technologies and information-rich environments (Sutanto J)
       informed the ‘Connected Communities’ and London’s Smart Parks initiative as part of
       London’s designation as the world’s first National Park City; it has also been applied in the
       Lake District National Park.




                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Marketing




Grounded in critical scholarship, Marketing promotes three research themes: Health, Wellbeing &
Vulnerabilities; Sustainability & Social Justice; Globalisation & Innovation. Marketing’s research
featured in Harvard Business Review, The Times, and Wall Street Journal (Puntoni); The Times,
New Scientist, and Sky News (Gilchrist). Hopkinson and Malone have discussed research on
BBC Radio 4 and Five Live. Downs’ research reached 16m-plus in print and online; departmental
interviews across TV and radio reached 150m-plus. ECRs and 26 PhDs are integral to developing
world-leading publications, and benefit from all-staff writing retreats. Marketing leads the Centre for
Consumer Insights (Piacentini).

Table 10: Academic Excellence in Marketing
 FTE staff          26.45        Peer-reviewed articles                   304
 World-leading      47(15.4%) Including: Journal of Consumer Research, Journal of
 publications                     Consumer Psychology, Marketing Science and
                                  Journal of Marketing Research, Journal of
                                  International Business Studies, Organization Studies,
                                  Human Relations, Sociology, and Sociology of Health
                                  and Illness
 Research funding £338k           Including: Big Lottery Fund, European Commission,
                                  British Academy, Marketing Trust
 Events             Workshops/Conferences: 14               Seminars: 25
 Distinguished      4 - Fischer (York University, Canada), Lowry (HEC, Paris),
 visitors           Askegaard (Southern Denmark), Schledelmilch (WU, Vienna).
 International      20 editorial positions at highly-regarded journals, including Journal
 standing           of Consumer Research, European Journal of Marketing, and
                    Industrial Marketing Management. Piacentini - Transformative
                    Research Group and Academy of Marketing Consumer Research
                    with Societal Impact SIG co-chair; Puntoni - Marketing Science
                    Institute; and Cronin - British Academy of Management Doctoral
                    Symposium.
 Engagement              87 international, national and regional TV and radio interviews,
                         reaching 150m.

Examples of expertise:

      Building on insights into the treatment of people with a disability in the marketplace (Journal
       of Consumer Research), Higgins promoted social change through art exhibitions to
       increase awareness of their inclusion and to transform consumer lives.


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

      Downs’ insights into the gambling industry and problem gamblers have seen her serve on
       the Gambling Commission advisory body on the structure of the UK Prevalence study, and
       provide invited evidence to the Lords Select Committee on the Social and Economic Impact
       of the Gambling Industry.

      The American Marketing Association recognised Patterson’s research into service
       ecosystems and innovative food waste reduction with their inaugural AMA-EBSCO Annual
       Award for Responsible Research. The awards recognise “outstanding research that
       produces credible and useful knowledge that can be applied to benefit society”.




                                                                                       Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Organisation, Work & Technology (OWT)




OWT is organised around five key research themes: Human Resource Management and
Employment Relations; Ethics, Sustainability and Management; Management, Organisations &
Society; Critical Leadership; Gender & Diversity; and Technology & Society. OWT is world-leading
for critical interdisciplinary research; with interdisciplinary appointments (Hemming, Philosophy;
Deville, Sociology) and publications (40% of outputs in interdisciplinary journals). OWT leads the
Centre for Technological Futures (Vurdubakis).

Table 11: Academic Excellence in OWT
 FTE staff         24.11       Peer-reviewed articles                    294
 World-leading     54          Including: Organisation Studies, Human Relations, Journal
 publications      (18%)       of Economic Geography, Journal of Management Studies
                               and Marketing Theory, MIS Quarterly, Equality, Diversity
                               and Inclusion.
 Research          £2.11m Including: ESRC, EU H2020, Research England
 funding
 Events            Writing Retreats: 13                    Seminars: 73
 Distinguished     24 visiting international scholars, including: Australia (Riach) and the
 visitors          USA (Cort, Rasch)
 International     29 editorial positions at highly-regarded journals, 22 roles on editorial
 standing          boards. Four founding editors: Knights, Gender, Work and
                   Organisation; Collinson, Leadership; Sparrow, Journal of
                   Organizational Effectiveness; Introna, Ethics and Information
                   Technology.
 Engagement        Mobile Age (Hayes & Introna; with Social Futures Institute) work
                   with MEPs, local government, national charities and care
                   homeowners. Work on electrical waste and circular economy
                   (Stowell; with Materials Science Institute).

Examples of expertise:

      Faulconbridge working with legal and accounting services SMEs across the UK (and
       Spring, ManSci) co-develops insights into the implementation effects of AI on Next
       Generation Professional Services, as part of a £91k funded project.




                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Dale and Bloomfield’s findings on the consequences of the growing use of performance
       enhancing drugs in the workplace resulted in two commissioned reports for the EU Agency
       for Safety and Health at Work (EU-OSHA). They held discussions with EU-OSHA and the
       EU Drugs Monitoring Agency on incorporating specific questions on the use of
       enhancement drugs into the large-scale, Europe-wide drugs surveys which the European
       Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA) administers.

      Stowell’s interdisciplinary explorations of e-waste and the circular economy provide
       practical applications through the REPIC Ltd-funded ‘UK Electrical and Electronic
       Equipment and Waste of Electrical and Electronic Equipment Study’ presented to Defra.
       Stowell contributed to UK ‘Recycle Your Electricals Campaign’ and the UK Environmental
       Audit Committee ‘Electronic Waste and the Circular Economy’. Stowell, Whiteman and
       Liu’s active Pentland Centre roles contributed to £1.73m in research grants.




                                                                                       Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.4 LUMS 2027 Research and Impact Strategy

Through our disciplinary strengths and interdisciplinary centre communities, we continue to pursuit
of our strategic ambitions to be world-leading in generating outstanding research insights that
transform lives, communities, organisations, practices and thinking globally. To achieve this we
prioritise the following objectives:

  i)    Position LUMS as a leading Civic Management School. We will embed RRI principles
        and EDI best practice in research engagements with collaborators, stakeholders and
        publics, generating an inclusive approach to research agenda development and delivery.
        Our ambition is to deliver research projects with significant civic impact.

 ii)    Push the boundaries of Research Excellence. We will shape and deliver world-leading
        programmes of research by targeting investments in the emerging disciplinary and
        interdisciplinary strengths of our Departments and Centres. To deliver this we will provide
        active career development support, mentoring, individual goals, seedcorn funding and
        incentives to promote long-term career progression. Our ambitious target is to have 60% of
        ECRs delivering research at Level 4.

 iii)   Put Impact & Engagement at the heart of research. We will support senior researchers
        in leading big, bold research bids with impact at their core. We will develop agile teams
        comprising interdisciplinary researchers, research and engagement professionals and
        external stakeholders to collaborate on our impactful, future-critical research agenda. Our
        ambition is to grow engagement-focused activity income by 20%.

 iv)    Invest in Impact Evaluation & Development Practices. We will work across REF, TEF,
        KEF and HEBCIS requirements to identify and adopt evaluation best practice and use this
        to generate opportunities that extend the reach and significance of our most impactful
        research. We will bring together experienced researchers and ECRs, research and
        engagement professionals, and key external stakeholders to increase external engagement
        by 20%.

 v)     Diversify & Grow Research Funding sources. We will invest in professional and
        academic expertise and work closely with LU Research Institutes to develop Grand
        Challenge bids that take advantage of interdisciplinary research funding opportunities.
        ‘Strategic buyouts’ will enable key faculty to lead such bids. Our ambition is to diversify our
        research funding base by 20%.

This strategy underpins Lancaster University’s strategic goal: to be a ‘go to’ university for research
and teaching that transforms lives, communities, practices and thinking in countries across the
globe.

In spite of the Covid-19 pandemic, our community has remained active and resilient, and we are
confident that our long-term future strategic plans are achievable.




                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2. People




2.1 Staffing strategy and development
LUMS is an exceptional place to work. Our collegiate and vital research-led environment provides
staff development support and reward to all 187 (FTE) Category A Teaching & Research faculty
members. To push the boundaries of research excellence with impact and engagement at its heart,
we have put in place the ACE staffing strategy: Attracting top talent; Creating communities of
excellence; and Establishing supportive structures. This strategy attracts and retains diverse,
world-class international talent at all levels of seniority, and actively supports researchers
throughout their careers as individuals and as members of agile teams working to address Grand
Challenges.

Attracting top talent
LUMS employs innovative recruitment practices which promote equal opportunities while
increasing success rates in the fiercely competitive international research labour market. We do
this through:

▪   Seeking out and recruiting individuals who complement established research teams, helping
    LUMS extend its critical mass in strategically important areas, and contributing to our
    collegiate culture, e.g.: Goncharov (Prof), Hwan Ahn and Kroechert (ECRs) (Financial
    Reporting group, ACF); Bauer (Prof) and Strobl (ERC) (Mergers & Acquisitions group,
    ENST); Higgins and Skandalis (Consumer Behaviour group, Marketing).

▪   Grand Challenge recruitment in priority areas, where governments and international
    agencies recognise problems as complex, persistent, and requiring interdisciplinary
    approaches. E.g., Nolte, Winter (Profs), Bia and Soccorsi (ECRs) for Macroeconomy &
    Clean Growth; Hughes, Tsionas (Profs), Fan, Elraz and Ford (ECRs) for Productivity;
    Ehrgott, Sutanto, Lulli (Profs), Boyaci, Dokka, Morgan and Shone (ECRs) for Mobility; and
    Unerman (Prof), with Bebbington (Prof) (from February 2021), Liu, Stowell and Wang D
    (ECRs) for Sustainability fostering links with the Pentland Centre.

▪   The Anniversary Lecturer (AL) scheme is a University-wide scheme to recruit high-flying
    ECRs. We appoint ALs on five-year contracts comprising 100% research in the first two years,
    tapering to a minimum of 40% research by year five. LUMS appointed 8 ALs, including joint
    appointments between OWT and Sociology (Deville), Marketing and Psychology (Tarim), and
    Economics and Health Research (Bertelli). Together they have published 24 papers in highly-
    regarded journals.




                                                                                           Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
▪   Grade 6 (Development Lecturer) posts serve as a bridge between PhD completion and full
    faculty roles (Boyallian, Danisewicz, Hashim, Kagkadis, Liang, Moreno, Morgan, Stowell)
    and comprise 50% research, 50% light teaching-related duties (tutorials and grading). Clear,
    objective performance conditions support progression to Grade 7.
▪   Grade 5, 5-year fixed-term (Early Career Academic) posts support PhD recruitment in
    areas where the supply of top talent is scarce. These innovative posts pay a competitive
    graduate salary, attracting promising doctoral candidates (e.g., Vasilas, Kanlis) as full-time
    staff members with part-time PhD registration. PhD training is 100% in year 1, tapering to 50%
    in year 5. Individuals receive Post Graduate Certificate of Academic Practice training.
    Teaching-related duties are limited to marking, tutorials, and guest lectures.
▪   Premium pay arrangements operate for disciplines facing acute market scarcity, such as
    Accounting and Finance. The premium enables LUMS to compete in the international labour
    market where pay levels at top European, Asian and US Business Schools typically exceed
    UK norms.
▪   Diversity is central to our recruitment and succession planning. Our retention success means
    that 14% of faculty are aged 60+. We are growing community diversity and ECR development
    to ensure a rich pipeline of new talent. EDI and unconscious bias training, vacancy
    advertisement & specification vetting, relocation and visa help have aided recruitment. Our
    recruitment is now 50% female (35% in REF2014), and our international staff recruitment has
    increased to 61%.



Creating communities of excellence
LUMS creates collegiate, inclusive and EDI-sensitive Communities of Excellence. Through these,
we ensure the provision of research development opportunities that champion research integrity,
quality and support, within and across research disciplines. We achieve this through:
▪   Dedicated research time. Facilitated through our workload model, academic staff devote at
    least 40% of time to research. Protected research time helps our researchers develop their
    research portfolios and publish work in highly-regarded journals. After seven terms, academics
    can apply for a sabbatical (Academic Research and Education Leave [AREL]) (Table 3), with
    outcomes monitored against centrally approved research proposals. In REF2021, our
    researchers took 782 person-months sabbatical (AREL) (£5.84m). 74% of LUMS faculty follow
    a research-led career path (Figure 3), but LUMS’ staffing strategy also promotes engagement
    and teaching-led careers. Engagement and teaching staff can use AREL to join research
    teams and extend the reach and significance of research impact. During REF2021, we
    invested £76m in research time.




                                                                                          Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Figure 3. LUMS Category A Staff in relation to the Sector - Based on HESA Business &
    Management Cost Centres Data




▪   Supporting faculty to take (appropriate) research risks to deliver world-leading insights. A
    long-term focus on high-quality research outputs guides LUMS activities and review
    processes. Our Established Supportive Structures (see below) reinforce the importance of
    appropriate research and publication profiles: e.g. probation agreements for ECRs to prioritise
    impactful research and ‘revise and resubmit’ invitations from journals that are widely regarded
    as significant within a particular field or discipline; senior professors mentor and encourage
    ECRs.

▪   Discipline profiles translate generic promotions criteria into benchmarked discipline-specific
    norms to support quality and help researchers plan their research activities. Our profiles
    comply with the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) and recognise
    the need to eliminate the use of journal-based metrics, such as Journal Impact Factors, in
    funding, appointment, and promotion considerations; and the need to assess research on its
    own merits.

▪   Supporting research and skills development communities through mechanisms such as
    research seminars, distinguished researcher visits, research-funding workshops, and our
    annual faculty research conference. We develop skills through co-authoring with senior
    colleagues; there has been a 417% increase in publications in world-leading journals since
    REF 2014. LUMS researchers work with University Research Institutes for support with more
    complex funding applications. These wider networks foster peer-led learning opportunities.

    We hosted 28 intensive writing retreats where staff develop a paper with a writing coach
    during REF2021. In 2018/19, LUMS secured SAMS/NARTI (Society for the Advancement of
    Management Studies/Northern Advanced Rewarding Training Initiative) financial support for
    retreats welcoming ECRs from 19 NARTI institutions. Each retreat included ‘add-ons’ to
    promote ECR development and establishing a community of practice: ‘Developing your
    intellectual identity’ and ‘Hosting your own online writing retreat’.

▪   Research ethics underpin LUMS’ RRI approach and are integral to our research integrity
    framework. All proposed research goes through the Ethics Committee’s approval process. All
    new starters and PhD students undergo ethics training to ensure an understanding of the
    LUMS ethics approval mechanisms and standards.

   Research Resources: LUMS invests £220k annually in research activities, including: Visiting
    Scholars Scheme; pump-priming scheme (incentivising RRI funding applications); and our
    publication incentive scheme. Staff receive an annual personal allowance for scholarship
    activities, such as attending conferences and participating in training. We offer flexibility in how
    this is used to support the research development of those with caring responsibilities,
    disability, or other EDI considerations. Journal submission fees are paid by Departments.



                                                                                               Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Library Support Services underpin the research environment across three distinct areas:
    Open Access, Research Data Management services, and Research Intelligence services
    (see the University Institutional Environment Statement). Of particular value to our open
    research environment are: Open Research Cafés, that host and continuously develop LUMS
    researchers’ use and understanding of trusted research data repositories; bespoke
    consultation on data management plans providing advice on data management and sharing,
    championing FAIR principles (findable, accessible, interoperable, reusable); research
    intelligence analysis, promoting interdisciplinary research collaboration; and embedding
    DORA’s responsible use of metrics culture within our LUMS community.
▪   Responsible Research & Innovation (RRI) Support and Governance: The central Research
    Support Office (RSO) bring interdisciplinary connections from across the University and other
    research & engagement networks into LUMS. They provide academics with research
    development, contract and post-award support. The RSO and LUMS Research Support Office
    staff (LUMS-RSO) support research activities in the School; administer the faculty Visiting
    International Scholar and Pump-Prime funds; organise events, such as writing retreats; identify
    and disseminate funded research opportunities; connect researchers with external partners;
    and provide targeted support for interdisciplinary Research Centres and Institutes. Research
    support is also embedded in departmental structures, providing tailored resources.
▪   Our LUMS Research Enhancement programme helps researchers access engagement and
    knowledge exchange support structures. In 2016, we introduced AD Engagement and Impact
    Development Manager roles to extend research impact through: individual and departmental
    impact training; a Sharing Best Practice programme; a LUMS Impact Seminar series; and
    supporting applications to the University’s £91.6k ESRC/ EPSRC Impact Acceleration funds,
    £315k annual HEIF fund and the LUMS £60k impact fund.

    LUMS is fully compliant with the University’s REF2021 Code of Practice and was involved in
    its development. HoDs and the REF team attended targeted Code of Practice training and
    REF-specific unconscious bias training. LUMS fully adheres to all aspects of the Code,
    including the voluntary and confidential declarations of personal circumstances and the
    selection of outputs.


Establishing supportive structures
LUMS ensures all staff have an equal opportunity to thrive and progress by making support
structures a central part of the vitality and sustainability of our School. To address market
shortages and reinforce our collegiate culture, we invest heavily in growing and retaining talent,
from ECR (constituting 20% (43) of our 210 strong research community) to Professor.
To help all our researchers navigate the challenges of multiple performance dimensions and the
increasing need for interdisciplinary work, we have put in place:
▪   Our Associate Dean (AD) Staffing, supporting our People Strategy. This role is designed to
    ensure fair allocation of work and equal opportunities, enhance our inclusive, sustainable and
    transparent academic culture, and enable all colleagues to achieve their career ambitions. AD
    Staffing oversees the LUMS workload allocations, the annual reviews of staff (Performance
    Development Reviews), and probation agreements, and supports LU’s membership and
    LUMS input to and adoption of Athena SWAN, Stonewall Global Diversity Championing, the
    Disability Confidence scheme, our Gender Pay Gap work, and champions wellbeing
    programmes and resources, including the Employee Assistance Programme (part of the ‘Five
    Ways of Wellbeing’ framework). LUMS’ Resources Manager, HR Partner and HR Advisor
    support AD Staffing.

                                                                                            Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
▪   Annual Performance Development Reviews (PDRs) are central to LUMS’ staff success and
    support. We proactively use PDRs to create opportunities for colleagues to acquire skills,
    capabilities and experiences aligned to our culture of progression. They provide information
    and advice on multiple career pathways that celebrate excellence in research, academic
    leadership, engagement, and teaching. They explore wellbeing, training and development
    needs required to achieve each individual’s PDR objectives and inform the development of
    workload, roles and responsibilities. Compulsory training for senior colleagues conducting
    PDRs ensures consideration of EDI issues. Our AD Staffing works with Heads of Department
    (HoDs) to actively review performance and identify high-performing, promotion-ready
    candidates irrespective of self-nomination, recognising known gender biases in advancement
    and supporting rapid and appropriate progression with targeted advice.

    PDRs help the School sustain succession planning, build in handover periods, ensure
    development is supported, and identify people for promotion without reliance on self-
    nomination. In the 2018 Staff Survey, 92% of LUMS staff confirmed they had participated in a
    PDR during the previous year.
▪   Probationary agreements support all newly appointed staff and vary in length depending on
    the nature of appointment (typically three years for ECRs). They provide clear performance
    criteria for progression and guide colleagues to achieve their full potential. Stretch performance
    targets are derived from discipline profiles. The probationary process is outlined in Lancaster’s
    Institutional Environment Statement.
   Promotions support takes the form of workshops and advice from AD Staffing, HoDs and
    mentors. The Dean, AD Staffing and University Promotions Committee members provide
    feedback on all applications before submission to the University Promotions Committee.
    Promotion applications are assessed by a diverse panel against defined, clear and transparent
    criteria to ensure consistent, fair applications and outcomes.

    Developing and recognising excellence in our community is critical to enabling individuals to
    thrive throughout their career. We have a notable track record in developing ECRs into world-
    leading researchers and academic leaders: we promoted 55 ECRs to Senior Lecturer, and 24
    mid-career academics to Reader or Professor, 15 of whom started at LU as ECRs (Table 12).
    Faulconbridge, Piacentini, Mason, Stevenson and Young started as ECRs at Lancaster and
    are now among senior School and University leadership. LUMS’ investment in staff
    development and retention translates into high average institutional tenure (9 years for L/SL;
    24 years for Chairs), underpinning our collegiate culture, and ensuring sustainability and
    continuity.
Table 12. Internal promotions during REF2021
     Period       Promotions from       Promotions from               Promotions from
                  Lecturer to Senior    Senior Lecturer to            SL/Reader to
                  Lecturer              Reader                        Professor
     REF 2014 14 (8 male; 6 female)     5 (3 male; 2 female)          10 (8 male; 2 female)
     REF 2021 55 (34 male; 21 female) 5 (3 male; 2 female)            24 (19 male; 5 female)

   Mentor support schemes: All ECRs benefit from our mentor support schemes. Senior faculty
    mentors offer advice, access to support services, and help with career path development
    through research plans (integrated into annual PDRs), identifying needs in terms of resources,
    skills and opportunities.




                                                                                             Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    LUMS provides external mentoring support via Distinguished Visiting Scholar (DVSs)
    appointments and the Visiting Scholars Scheme. Our DVSs, appointed on fractional contracts,
    guide, support and advise faculty on producing field-leading research targeted at highly-
    regarded journals; 14 faculty co-authored papers. For example, Morgan (ECR) and Nelson’s
    paper on ‘detecting bias due to input modelling in computer simulation’ in the European
    Journal of Operations Research; Knight (DVS) and Latham’s (ECR) paper on ‘disabled people
    and digitalization’ in Organisation Studies. LUMS made 18 DVS appointments during
    REF2021, strengthening the intellectual leadership of the School, particularly in Economics,
    Entrepreneurship & Strategy and Management Science.

    The Visiting Scholars Scheme supports extended visits by international research leaders with
    the aim of developing joint projects, and strengthening research networks; De Silva hosted
    McComb (TTU) to co-author “Do Localities Benefit from Extraction of Local Natural
    Resources?” which won The Energy Journal’s Campbell Watkins Best Paper Award 2020.
    During REF2021, 13 researchers and 14 journal editors visited, including Andersen
    (Northwestern), Hribar (Iowa), Myers (Tennessee), Riach (Monash), Shakespeare (Michigan).
   Rewarding success: We provide financial rewards for grants and leading publications, while
    the Dean’s Awards celebrate valued work practices, including excellence in research,
    teaching, leadership, engagement and mentoring.
   LUMS is committed to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers,
    guiding Research Associate (RA) support and development. This includes giving RAs
    dedicated time to develop their publication and research profile, ensuring they have an
    appropriate mentor, and providing extensive training and development support relating to their
    future career plans from the University’s Organisation and Educational Development team.
    Bridging funds can be requested to support those on fixed-term contracts to ensure continuity
    of appointment between projects.
   Leadership and training programmes include the Bonington Programme (developing the
    next generation of senior academic leaders); grant-writing workshops; and PhD supervision
    training. External training is accessible: CABS’ ‘Deans & Directors Development Programme’;
    BAM’s ‘Development Programme for Directors of Research’ and ELEMENTA’s ‘Leading the
    Global University’.
▪   Equality, Diversity & Inclusion is a priority area, supported by ongoing review and action.
    Respect for diversity is actively promoted, and difference is viewed as contributing positively to
    the democratic and intellectual life of LUMS. We work to transform structural inequalities within
    the School, University and wider academic community, taking learning from our EDI research
    to lead the way on university groups and external bodies. For example, Stead, Leitch,
    Alkhaled; Academy of Gender, Work and Leadership. Leitch is PI on a Horizon 2020 EDI in
    academe project; Piacentini and Leitch, sit on the University Gender Pay Gap Task Force;
    Izzeldin and Talib, are on the University Strategic Race Advisory Group; Piacentini and
    Boylan, played key roles in the University Athena SWAN Self-Assessment Team; Remke, is
    on the University Diversity Committee, Chartered ABS; and Mason, is a British Academy of
    Management Chair and EDI project lead.

    We have established working groups to ingrain EDI principles and make them more visible
    within our community. The LUMS HR Committee oversees EDI issues and drove our Athena
    SWAN Bronze submission (November 2020), which adopted an inclusive approach in its
    creation. Current EDI practices include mandatory training, periodic staff surveys and regular



                                                                                             Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   Head of Department/LUMS meetings, where concerns are raised and addressed, with support
   from the senior LUMS Team and HR Partner.
   We recognise the needs of staff with caring responsibilities and offer flexible working where
   possible, without detriment. 110 months of parental leave was taken during REF2021.
   Parental leave arrangements among men nationally is low (approx. 1%). We are collecting
   data on dual career families and raising awareness of shared parental leave policy within
   LUMS. We also support academics taking adoption, maternity and those returning from long-
   term sick leave. We are committed to supporting staff and PGRs with family commitments;
   where possible, meetings, seminars and colloquia are scheduled between 10am and 4pm to
   accommodate carer responsibilities. During COVID, we have operated within a caring
   responsibility framework to be more flexible in our support of colleagues. In line with University
   practice, lecture scheduling seeks to consider individual family and carer responsibilities.
   To enhance our ability to promote gender equality and address institutional imbalance, LUMS
   has recognised the need to monitor trends more thoroughly and to establish the routine
   collection of disaggregated data in all areas: recruitment, workload, administrative
   responsibility, leadership and career progression. This will increase transparent reporting of
   our EDI status and achievements at annual academic away-days, in workforce planning
   discussions, and will heighten awareness of EDI, enabling us to develop clear action plans for
   priority areas.
   We are making progress. A third of academic staff are female, up from 26% in REF2014,
   (Figures 4a, 4b); 70% of females attending interview are successful; and the LUMS
   Leadership Team is gender-balanced. In promotions to Senior Lecturer, 79% of female
   applicants succeed; 72% of males; and for promotion to Professor, 82% of female applicants
   succeed; 78% of males.

Figure 4(a) REF2014 and 4(b) REF2021. Gender Diversity by Grade: Snapshots: 31st July
2013 and 2020




                                                                                            Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




   There is more work to do. The gender pay gap remains an issue, and our first step in
   addressing this has been to make the problem visible. Figure 4b shows gender imbalance
   increases after Grade 9 (a structural problem amplified by the long tenure of our professors;
   24 years). As part of our Athena SWAN ambitions, we are working closely with the University,
   developing actions to rectify this complex problem. Changes include putting forward non-self-
   nominating females for promotion, providing those returning from parental leave with additional
   research support, and providing unconscious bias training for HoDs.
   Similarly, our ethnic diversity has risen to 36.2% since REF2014: Asian researchers now
   constitute 20% of our community; white researchers constitute 63.8%, representing a 14%
   increase in diversity (Figures 5a, 5b). But more needs to be done here too. Work to clearly
   identify institutional and cultural barriers to inclusion in progress.

Figure 5(a) REF2014 and 5(b) REF2021. Ethnic Diversity
Snapshot: 31st July 2013 and 2020




   We provide disabilities support for long-term physical and mental health conditions through
   occupational health services and adaptations to workload. Where needed, we provide a
   supported return to work in a suitable role to enable individuals to thrive, working with a staff
   member’s health support team if requested by them. We provide technology, training and
   coaching support, alongside reductions in teaching-related reading and marking tasks for
   those with dyslexia and related disabilities.
   Collectively, these structures promote our equality and diversity profile.


                                                                                             Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
▪   LUMS works intensively to support staff and develop a wellbeing culture. Our Departments
    provide peer and line-management support, and the Chair of the LUMS Safety, Health and
    Wellbeing (SHaW) committee oversees wellbeing awareness-raising initiatives. The committee
    organises informative sessions, mental health first aid courses, and conduct focus groups to
    understand work-related issues. If LUMS staff need further help, they are encouraged to
    access the University’s wellbeing support services and Staff Wellbeing website. Such
    measures help sustain LUMS’ core values of a healthy and vibrant community.




                                                                                       Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.2 Post Graduate Research (PGR) Structures, Training and Support




LUMS had 280 doctoral programme registrations and 225 PhD graduations during REF2021
(Figures 6 and 7). We have high expectations of our PhD researchers and work with this vibrant
international community to shape ambitions, open opportunities and help them to become the next
generation of academic research leaders, practitioners and policymakers.
Figure 6. EDI Gender Analysis of PhD registrations during REF2021




Figure 7. EDI BAME Analysis of PhD registrations during REF2021




                                                                                       Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We foster disciplinary excellence while familiarising PGRs with interdisciplinary approaches to
research. Our programmes are founded on LUMS’ RRI and EDI principles and practices, to
produce the research skills required for our future knowledge-based economy. The employability of
our PhD researchers is vital; we place great emphasis on setting expectations for their research
and working lives, so they acquire skills in teaching, researching, publishing and engaging with
practitioners. Tailored careers services help PGRs present themselves and their work to best
advantage. To ensure PGRs are aware of a wide range of options, we offer workshops on job
hunting, career planning, and securing both academic and non-academic jobs, supporting
applications and interviews. We work with PGRs to help them understand the value and practice of
network building for career enhancement. All our PGRs have access to a comprehensive online
careers portal and fully qualified careers professionals. Of the 48% of PhD graduates responding
to our destination survey, 33% secured jobs in industry or the public sector; 67% secured
academic positions in the UK and internationally, some achieving placements at Top-50 institutions
(e.g. Australian National University, LSE, Manchester University in 2018).

PGR achievements include: 127 co-authored papers, 480 conference presentations and 6 doctoral
researcher excellence awards (Table 13).
Table 13: Examples of Doctoral Candidate Excellence Awards
 Doctoral          Excellence Award
 Researcher
 Alshallaqi        Best Paper Award (2019) European Group for Public Administration
                   Conference, Belfast,
 Benstead          Best Thesis: Emerald/EFMD Outstanding Doctoral Research Award
                   (2018)
 Jalili Tanha      Best Paper Award: British Academy of Management (2017)
 Morgan            OR Society PhD prize (2020)
 Sanchez           Best PhD Thesis (2020 INFORMS Aviation Application Prize)
 Santos            Emerald/EFMD Outstanding Doctoral Research (2016)
Our investment in PGR training and support was £12.8m in REF2021, with LUMS scholarships
covering full costs (fees & living allowance) awarded to 46% of PGRs.
PGR Structures and Funding
LUMS programmes attract high-quality students from leading international universities, as well as
from our specialist Masters programmes and industry. Entry standards are demanding, with PGRs
holding an excellent undergraduate degree and 65% or more at Masters level.
We offer four UKRI-approved Research Training Pathways: Accounting and Finance;
Economics; Management and Operational Research. Additionally, the pioneering STOR-i EPSRC
Doctoral Training Centre, chaired by Glazebrook (ManSci), is a collaboration with the Department
of Mathematics and Statistics. STOR-I partners with Naval Postgraduate School, Northwestern
University and MIT in co-supervision.
23% (57) of PGRs are admitted to four-year programmes that integrate 12 months of assessed
modules with three years of supervised research. Three-year programmes in Economics,
Management, Management Science, and Marketing are offered to students with appropriate
backgrounds. These are either the traditional book-style output or the three-paper model,
depending on the nature of the research project. PGRs often publish before graduation, best
positioning them for successful academic roles with leading HEIs and impactful industry positions.



                                                                                           Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
STOR-i's ground-breaking approach to statistics and operational research is developing a new
generation of researchers capable of contributing to academia and industry. STOR-i's strategic
multinational research cooperation objective enables PGRs in each institution to spend extended
visits with one another. All students have substantial industrial engagement, with 80% of PGRs co-
funded and co-supervised by partners such as BT, Shell, Unilever, Rolls-Royce and the Met Office.
In 2019, STOR-i was awarded third generation funding (the only centre of its kind to be funded for
a third time) and will benefit from more than £10m of investment from the EPSRC, Lancaster
University and industrial partners. This will fund 70 PhD researchers across five cohorts; the first
started in October 2019. Total PGR support provided via STOR-i exceeds £1.1m (Table 14).
Table 14: Examples of STOR-i's Industry Funded PGR Projects
 FY         Award Funder                           Project Full Title
 awarded
 2013/14    £30k    National Nuclear Laboratory Multi-Faceted Scheduling for the
                    Ltd                            National Nuclear Laboratory
 2013/14    £31.5k  North West Ambulance           Planning Paramedic Emergency
                    Service NHS Trust (NWAS) Services in NWAS
 2015/16    £30k    ATASS Ltd                      Forensic sports analytics
 2015/16    £30k    Aimia Coalition Loyalty UK     Customer Analytics for supply chain
                    Ltd                            forecasting
 2017/18    £30k    Morgan Stanley                 Optimisation in finance
 2017/18    £30k    Rolls-Royce                    Symbiotic Simulation in Airline
                                                   Operations Environment
 2017/18    £30k    Network Rail Infrastructure    Optimising service recovery after
                    Ltd                            perturbation
 2018/19    £30k    Rolls-Royce                    Mathematical Models and Algorithms
                                                   for Optimising Aircraft Engine
                                                   Maintenance Scheduling Decisions
 2018/19    £30k    Sellafield Ltd                 Optimal Scheduling for
                                                   Decommissioning of Nuclear Sites
 2018/19    £30k    Office for National Statistics Efficient clustering for high-
                                                   dimensional data sets


Competitive LUMS funding schemes reinforce the quality of our PGR offering and ensure
sustainability. Our annual scholarship budget was £382k in 2008, rising to £537k in 2012, and £1m
in 2019. We recruit the best, awarding funding based on a candidate’s academic track record and
proposal quality.
Our standard two-person supervision model combines senior faculty and ECRs, the former
providing mentoring and guidance to the latter, creating a collaborative, more diverse supervision
experience. Several LUMS PGRs benefit from cross-institutional supervision with the Universities
of Manchester and Liverpool. The STOR-i supervision model involves industrial and/or
international academic partners.




                                                                                           Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
PGR Training and Support
LUMS offers PGRs two broad high-quality training approaches reflecting international discipline
norms. The Management pathway combines 30 credits of ESRC-approved core training in theory
and methods in LUMS, with supplementary development opportunities ranging from research
seminars to specialist training courses both internally (Faculties of Arts and Social Sciences; and
Science and Technology) and externally (DTP partners). This structure enables doctoral
researchers and supervisors to develop tailored training solutions that meet individuals’ project-
specific needs.
Training on four-year ACF, Economics, ManSci and STOR-i pathways follows US doctoral training
norms, with a fully-assessed programme of modules (180 credits) in year one, providing the
discipline-specific tools required for world-class research. Training focuses on theory, research
design, statistical methods and coding, with progression to year two conditional on meeting
challenging performance targets. Each LUMS Department provides additional discipline-related
training. ACF and Economics pathways include modules offered by the University of Manchester
(LUMS pays travel costs), with reciprocal arrangements. This suite of shared specialist PGR
modules generates a dynamic classroom environment and a vibrant doctoral network.
Collaborative training arrangements, including NARTI and Methods North West (Manchester,
Liverpool and Lancaster), benefit PGRs. Boylan is Director of the EPSRC-approved National
Taught Course Centre in Operational Research initiative (NATCOR), which provides training to
c.100 PhD researchers annually and is closely associated with STOR-i and the Operational
Research doctoral programme. This LUMS-hosted collaboration between 12 universities develops
and delivers taught courses in operational research to PhD students. CENTRAL and CMAF
support doctoral training activities.
Embedding PGRs in the LUMS research community is central to creating a vital, sustainable
research environment. Training takes place across departments and faculties; and PGRs can co-
locate in LUMS Research Centres, in direct contact with faculty members and external partners.
Our doctoral researchers are integrated into: Departmental and Research Centre seminar series;
doctoral research events; annual cross-faculty workshops; DTC/DTP conferences; the LUMS
research conference; and co-authorship with faculty. Chaired by the Doctoral Programme Director,
Department PGR representatives attend termly meetings with module leaders and collectively
devise ongoing improvements for our PGR community. We provide funding to support attendance
and presentations at international conferences and PhD colloquia. During REF2021, PGR students
presented papers at 240 prestigious international conferences and co-authored 127 high-quality
journal articles with faculty.
LUMS co-organises Lancaster University’s annual social science ‘Intellectual Party’ for PhD
researchers, in collaboration with FASS and the North West Social Science Doctoral Training
Partnerships. The event exposes researchers to an international network of their peers and senior
academics, providing the opportunity to spark collaborations across institutions and disciplines. We
welcome c.90 ECRs and PhD researchers each year.




                                                                                            Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

LUMS’ investments build researcher capabilities and provide professional research and
engagement support services, acting as a platform to increase research income and create a fertile
environment for extending the significance and reach of our research impact.

3.1 Research Income
We guide, encourage and support staff in research funding applications appropriate to their career
experience, providing the environment to produce world-leading impactful research. Through
investment in Research and Engagement support, we have: increased funding applications by
133% since REF2014; grown our European Funding income stream to £3.4m; and increased our
application success rate from 28% in 2016 to 62% in 2020 (Figure 8). In 2019, we successfully
renewed our Small Business Charter award, which recognises LUMS’ extensive research and
engagement with SMEs. These achievements will sustain our vibrant research environment and
ensure we continue to flourish.
Figure 8. Increasing % of Successful Grant Applications from LUMS Researchers




Research funding is not treated as a performance outcome, rather it powers our RRI approach.
Between 2014 and 2020, LUMS staff were awarded 361 engaged, externally funded research
projects from 579 submissions, generating £14.68m in funding from, among others: 53 UK
Research Councils, (26 ESRC, 11 EPSRC), 20 European Commission (19 Horizon 2020), 14
governmental agencies, 31 UK charities (including 7 Leverhulme Trust), and 36 private company
grants. This significant funding underlines the importance and relevance of our research for the
economy and society (Table 15).




                                                                                          Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Table 15. Grant Awards by Funding Bodies
                                   Academic year ending (£k)
    Awarding Bodies
                                   2014 2015 2016     2017      2018 2019 2020    Total
   EU Others                       58    14                     295       117     484
   EU CEC                          96    732   1,167            328       634     2,957
   NHS & Health Bodies             43    31                     8                 82
   Non-EU Non-Industry             82                 8         2         119     211
   Other                           586   976   796    676       18   25   26      3,103
   Lancaster University (Internal) 10    24    22     15                          71
   Research Council                52    1,255 365    335       586   1,061 1,295 4,949
   Royal Society                                      2                           2
   UK Central Govt.                584                5         68    112         769
   UK Charities                    16    81    177    298       44    67    153   836
   UK Charities Other                          20     7         42    8     83    160
   UK Industry                     38    4     106    8         543   310   124   1,133
   UK Local Govt.                        3                                        3
   Total                           1,555 3,096 2,631 1,339      1,934 1,583 2,551 14,760

Research income contributes significantly to the enhancement of LUMS’ RRI environment. It has:

      Opened opportunities to devote significant time to world-class research activities.
       For example, Young’s ESRC-funded (£424k) interdisciplinary work with the University’s
       School of Computing and Communications and Centre for Corpus Approaches to Social
       Science, ‘Analysing Narrative Aspects of UK Preliminary Earnings Announcements and
       Annual Reports’. The team worked with one of the world’s largest asset managers to
       develop investment tools; the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to evaluate its market
       monitoring strategy; the Financial Reporting Council and the Pensions and Lifetime Savings
       Association to promote superior corporate reporting and governance.


      Attracted and developed new research talent by funding Post-Doctoral Research
       Associate (PDRA) positions and doctoral fellowships. For example, CENTRAL
       attracted external funding from Horizon 2020 (OptiFrame; £315k) and EPSRC (OR-
       MASTER; £2.3m. RESPOND-OR; £510k), leading to the recruitment of seven PDRAs on
       cutting-edge, high-impact projects. The experience and knowhow acquired enhanced their
       capabilities and helped develop career paths: Yu (OR-MASTER) is now Assistant Professor
       at the Technical University of Denmark, Fomeni (OptiFrame) is Assistant Professor the
       University of Montreal at Quebec, and Fairbrother and Shone (OR-MASTER) are
       Lecturers in LUMS’ Department of Management Science.


      Increased the international visibility and reputation of LUMS through participation in
       international research networks. For example, Downs is PI on Horizon 2020-funded
       Eliemental (£372k) and Elie 2.0 (£94k), Europe-wide projects working with education and
       business partners in Romania, Greece, Bulgaria and Poland to improve the chances for
       socially excluded groups and communities to establish and develop SME businesses.
       Section 4, Figure 12 illustrates the breadth and depth of our international collaborations
       enabled through funded research.


                                                                                         Page 35
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


      Facilitated engagement with key stakeholders. For example, Mason works on the
       Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS)-funded Mobile Access North
       Yorkshire (MANY) project (£425k), with the Faculty of Science and Technology, Quickline,
       DCMS, North Yorkshire County Council, public services, and tourism and technology SMEs
       to tackle the socio-economic digital divide between urban and rural communities.


      Leveraged the significance and acceleration of research impact. For example, Spring
       (ManSci) and Faulconbridge (OWT) work across the Centres for Productivity and
       Technological Futures with Innovate UK and other UK universities on Artificial Intelligence
       in Professional Services Firms. This is funded by the Industrial Challenge Strategy Fund
       and ESRC as part of the £20m ‘Next Generation Services’ government investment. They
       work directly with accounting and legal SMEs as they implement technologies, helping
       them overcome issues through design sprint programmes.


Figure 9. Number and Distribution of Funded-Research Projects




Key priorities for research strategy include wide participation of researchers in funded-research
activities, and the increased success rate of research bids. During REF2021, 101 (48%) LUMS
researchers participated as Principal Investigators (PIs) and Co-Investigators (Co-Is) in funded-
research bids, with some achieving multiple awards (Downs, Mason, Spring, Walker, Zografos).
Participation in funded research activity is distributed across LUMS departments (Figures 9, 10)
and Research Centres, the latter reported here under the PI’s departmental affiliation. In line with
this effort, we have shifted the emphasis of the Work Foundation’s activities to work more closely
with our researchers in leveraging the significance and reach of our research for policy and
practice impact, rather than generating their own research funding.
                                                                                            Page 36
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Figure 10. Value (£s) and Distribution of Funded-Research by Department




3.2 Research Infrastructure and Facilities
We are investing in high-quality infrastructure through the LUMS Space Programme. The five-
storey new-build West Pavilion opened in 2021, featuring: two 200-seat lecture theatres, a 125-
seat lecture theatre, executive education collaboration spaces, and offices, representing a capital
investment of £28.5m. Our second redevelopment phase will refurbish existing buildings to create
a modern and collaborative working environment with flexible working space at its heart and
innovative teaching and research facilities throughout. Work, due to start in Spring 2020, is
postponed due to Covid-19.

We have invested in computer hardware to support big data analysis in ACF (market
microstructure projects in the Centre for Financial Econometrics, Asset Markets and
Macroeconomic Policy). Software to support advanced programming analysis (e.g. Stata, SAS,
Eviews, Matlab); and database subscriptions (£2.75m), including WRDS, Compustat, CRSP,
Datastream, Execucomp, Bloomberg, Thomson Research, Thomson Reuters EIKON, Extel,
Worldscope, InvesText, I/B/E/S, JCF, Perfect Information (plus Perfect Information API), Factiva,
and NYSE Trade and Quotes (TAQ). These resources provide LUMS staff with one of the
strongest financial database infrastructures in UK academia.

The Experimental Economics Laboratory (LExEL), constructed during REF2021, is a dedicated
space for the development of experimental research, such as economic decision-making by
individuals or groups in carefully controlled environments. It represents a £40k investment and
enhances the applied research output of the Behavioural and Experimental Economics group,
including Winter’s work that informs collaborations with the UK & Israeli governments.

Research ethics are an important element of our sustainable research infrastructure. All LUMS
researchers (staff and students), obtain ethics approval before data collection begins. The joint

                                                                                            Page 37
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
FASS-LUMS Research Ethics Committee (REC) shares best practice, helping ECRs develop
ethical research practices and support innovation from all researchers through the development of
suitable protocols for work with stakeholders and communities. For example, with the development
of the 5G Rural Integrated Testbed (5GRIT) project, Mason, Palo and Jalili-Tanha (PhD) worked
with the REC to ensure local communities in Cumbria were given a real voice in the process,
capturing their opinions and thoughts in the design and implementation of their research.

Impact and Engagement is built into every stage of the research cycle, with pathways to impact
fully incorporated into our projects, and academics connected with appropriate impactful
collaborators. The University-wide Research Enterprise Services (RES) work closely with the
LUMS Engagement Support Office (ESO), providing academic (through AD Engagement) and
professional expertise for our business and management researchers. Highly collaborative projects
include Wave 2 Growth Hubs (W2GH), Lancashire Forum, Cumbria Forum, EnginE, Made Smarter
and Productivity through People. Central teams support major cross-faculty bids, fostering
important connections and knowledge exchange opportunities that cut across the University,
extending academic and research networks. LUMS has been involved with Science Innovation
Audits (SIA) for Sheffield advanced manufacturing; and a clean growth North West Coastal Arc,
which included Eden Project North and spanned from Cumbria to North Wales. These SIAs looked
at RRI challenges and set agendas for researchers to work with industry, highlighting LUMS’ work
on industrial productivity and the transformational effects of leadership. LUMS has worked with
RES to be part of the UK branch of MIT’s Regional Entrepreneurial Action Programme (REAP),
funded through BEIS. Working with Loughborough University, Lancaster engaged with Local
Enterprise Partnerships (LEPs) from Cumbria, Lancashire and Cheshire to enhance productivity
and business growth, working with corporations, entrepreneurs and public bodies.

Engagement supports pump-priming of impactful research bids and leverages our research
excellence. LUMS’ ESO enables connections between researchers, professionals, Entrepreneurs-
in-Residence, and business partners, including SMEs, NGOs, blue-chip organisations (such as
BAE Systems, Siemens and Ernst & Young), local, regional, national and international
policymakers, local authorities, LEPs, government departments, the OECD and World Bank.

The Work Foundation (WF) is a key element of the LUMS engagement support infrastructure.
The WF is a leading provider of analysis, evaluation, and policy advice in the UK, connecting our
researchers with employers, policymakers, practitioners and other experts to develop and
communicate high-quality solutions through applied research. The WF shapes public policies and
organisational practices while empowering individuals, with its focus on ‘good work’. WF’s research
programmes include: Gender Matters (with Leitch, Stead and the Academy for Gender, Work &
Leadership); the role of Artificial Intelligence in Business (with Tarafdar and the Centre for
Technological Futures); UK productivity (with Spring, Faulconbridge and the Centre for
Productivity); and Health and Wellbeing, building on work on the effect of migraine on productivity
levels and the economy in the UK and EU, mental health in the film and TV industries and public
health issues (Table 16).

The WF serves as a global strategic advisor for the University, working with the OECD on their Job
Strategy Policy Forum, Skills Strategy Advisory Group and Local Employment and Economic
Development Programme. It operated as Chair of the Fit for Work UK Coalition until 2018,
influencing the UK Government’s Work and Health Unit.




                                                                                          Page 38
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Table 16. Illustrative Impactful WF Projects
 Projects                WF Activities
 Policy and Evidence     Significant role in establishing Policy and Evidence Centre for the
 Centre for the          Creative Industries, a 5-year Arts and Humanities Council and
 Creative Industries     Industrial Strategy funded project, worth £550k to LUMS.
 Skills Forecasting for Working with the creative industries sector skills council. Two-year
 the British Film        project is worth c.£200k.
 Institute (BFI)
 The ‘Looking Glass’     Conducting a survey and interviews on behalf of the Film & TV
 Project                 Charity into mental health issues among industry workers.
                         ‘Looking Glass’ report published in February 2020, leading to the
                         establishment of the Film and TV Taskforce on Mental Health, and
                         setting up of ‘Whole Picture Programme’ by the charity, involving
                         Channel Four and Sky TV.
 Women in Banking        Developing a thought leadership function for the professional
 and Finance             association, cementing LUMS initiatives such as the Academy for
                         Gender, Work and Leadership. Four-year project worth at least
                         £400k.
 Productivity through    Working with Be the Business, the national productivity council,
 People                  and conducting the first research commissioned by them on the
                         performance of businesses across the UK economy.
 Made Healthier          Working with North West businesses to increase awareness of
                         mental health issues in the labour market.


Communicating Research Insights: We’ve made strategic investments in a LUMS Media and
Communications Officer, working in the University’s Press Office, and a Research Engagement
Content Manager. They underpin engagement through the promotion of research, major
conference presentations and events to the mainstream, regional and specialist media. Broadcast
training is provided to academics interested in promoting research and expertise. Campus TV and
radio studios provide easy access when opportunities arise. Since 2016, we have tracked the
significant role broadcast media plays in disseminating LUMS research (Table 17), engaging more
than 87m people in 2019 alone. LUMS’ Fifty-Four Degrees magazine (print and online) promotes
research activities to academics, alumni, students, businesses and research partners, among
others.

Table 17: LUMS Researcher Media Reach within the REF2021
 Media      2016        2017        2018           2019                    2020 (to July
                                                                           31)
 TV           3,596,116     24,884,093     68,880,682      47,588,346      21,467,019
 Radio        27,707,000    33,038,000     42,078,000      42,386,000      13,870,813

An illustration of the cumulative value of media coverage: Johnes (Economics, Centre for
Productivity) was interviewed on the wage premium for people moving jobs (BBC Breakfast,
December 3rd, 2018), leading to research and consultancy work with RED Consultancy and
Totaljobs on the cost-of-living differences across UK regions. Johnes generated research income
and played a major part in designing a survey of workers across the regions, which resulted in
further media engagement, again on BBC Breakfast as well as the BBC News Channel and Sky

                                                                                           Page 39
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
News Radio, and in business engagement events. The survey data provided Johnes with further
research opportunities on the willingness to migrate, and a published paper. Other examples
include Downs (Marketing), whose work has been published in The Conversation, Biz Ed, The
Guardian, and various specialist magazines, leading to new contacts around the world, as well as
increasing impact; and Hayes (OWT), who benefitted from new research collaborations and new
contacts in organisations, including South Lakeland District Council, who saw Hayes’s Horizon
2020 Mobile-Age work through press coverage.

42% of our researchers appeared in the media in REF2021: 68 researchers writing 135
Conversation articles which have been read two million times; 22 researchers contributing to 246
TV interviews and features, reaching a total audience of 172.7m; and 29 researchers contributing
to 152 radio interviews and features, with a total audience of 167.7m. Interdisciplinary research
means our outputs and grant awards are also reported in the media via other faculties.

Executive education is an important mechanism for impact and engagement. The Centre for
Executive Training and Development (CeTAD) leverages research for impact in the design and
delivery of executive education programmes for local, regional, national and international
managers and professionals. Innovative open and customised courses align academic strengths
with the changing needs of practitioner communities. Involvement in executive education opens up
impact pathways for LUMS researchers and exposes them to problems that executive managers
face. CeTAD acts as a mechanism to connect practitioner groups with the latest research and
expertise. Activities are supported by the LUMS ESO Partnership Development Managers,
Recruitment Officer and Executive Education Development team. Examples of executive
programmes include leadership development programmes for doctors and clinical staff in the NHS,
incorporating West’s (OWT) work on collective leadership; and Productivity through People (PtP)
and Made Smarter, which connect LUMS research on Productivity and Technological Futures
(Spring, Kempster, Kotlar) with application into SMEs.

Cross-faculty Collaborative Infrastructures: LUMS houses disciplinary expertise in its six
Departments (Section 1.3.2) and uses its Research Centres (Section 1.3.1) to create funding-
focused, policy-oriented interdisciplinary collaborations. In addition, University-wide Research
Institutes act as engagement catalysts, bringing together LUMS researchers with other academics
and external partners to address Grand Challenge problems, gain interdisciplinary understandings
in relation to those problems and to work on complex research bids. For example:

      Tarafdar’s engagement with the Data Science Institute (DSI) resulted in funding for the
       three-year (£987k) BIAS project ‘Responsible AI for Labour Market Equality’, tackling
       gender and ethnic bias in recruitment and human resource management alongside Essex
       University, the University of Alberta, and industrial partners including Reed Talent Solutions
       and Profusion. Tarafdar and Hu (Sociology) formulated the research proposal following a
       DSI event. Knowles (School of Computing & Communications) contacted Tarafdar through
       the Centre for Technological Futures.

      Deville (a joint LUMS-Sociology appointment) has pursued work on open-access
       publishing through externally funded projects with the Institute for Social Futures (ISF).
       His first project, Open Futures, was funded by a £1k ISF seed corn grant, leading to £38.5k
       from OpenAIRE (Open Access Infrastructure for Research in Europe) for the New
       Platforms for Open Access Book Distribution project. Deville is working with the Library,
       leading the Lancaster aspect of the Research England funded, three-year Community-led


                                                                                            Page 40
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Open Publication Infrastructures for Monographs (COPIM) partnership, involving Coventry
       University, the Centre for Mobilities Research, Birkbeck, University of London and Trinity
       College, Cambridge, the ScholarLed consortium of open access presses, the Directory of
       Open Access Books and The Digital Preservation Coalition. Research England awarded
       £2.2m of funding to COPIM from the Research England Development (RED) Fund, with
       further contributions from the Arcadia Fund ($1.05m).

      Researchers from CENTRAL and the Centre for Productivity worked with Energy
       Lancaster on the Hydrogen-to-Heysham (H2H) project, setting up a Hydrogen Hub to
       create a clean economy across the city region (Figure 11). It brings together clean-air,
       planning, regeneration and low-carbon public sector stakeholders (including councils and
       LEPs), local and global energy (EDF Energy R&D UK) and technology firms, transport
       companies, heat consumers, scientists, economists, management experts (Mason and
       Zografos) and engineers. To date, the Hydrogen Hub has raised £400k investment from
       BEIS, and organised 12 workshops attended by 300 stakeholders.

Figure 11: Hydrogen-to-Heysham: Local Collaborators working with LUMS Researchers &
Energy Lancaster to develop a Clean Economy for Green Hydrogen.




PGR infrastructures foster long-term multi-institutional collaborative research opportunities. The
NARTI network connects leading business and management schools in the North of England.
North West Methods links with Centres for Doctoral Training, and includes the Universities of
Manchester and Liverpool, providing a common forum for training and development of research
methods. The STOR-i Centre for Doctoral Training has distinctive international visibility and reach
with globally leading institutions (Section 2.2).

Increased Consultancy Support: Researchers in LUMS have benefited from new central policies
to revitalise academic consultancy; these enable and encourage academics to run consultancy
work through the University’s system, deriving positive impact for all parties. Earnings from LUMS
consultancy going through the finance system increased from c.£41k per year to £366k in
contracts across 24 projects in less than 12 months.




                                                                                            Page 41
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Collaboration, community and engagement are central RRI pillars, helping LUMS promote a
virtuous circle of practice informing theory, and theory improving practice. Our research and
engagement activities position us as a regional hub and global force for business learning:
innovating the disciplines; advancing knowledge and practice. We focus on nurturing quality
collaborations with academia, business, policy and third sector leaders, addressing societal needs.
We work with diverse academic and non-academic stakeholders, achieving local, regional, national
and international reach. Significant investment in underpinning structures ensures LUMS has a
strong collaboration platform:

      New infrastructure increases collaboration space (£28.5m LUMS West Pavilion, £41m
       Health Innovation Campus [HIC]);
      Investment in expertise (LUMS researchers, engagement and partnership teams) support
       collaboration management and leverage new opportunities;
      Engagement with, and sustained contribution to, business initiatives catalyses
       transformation (Bay Business Angels, Eden North, the HIC);
      Management structures embed engagement (Research/Engagement ADs; Departmental
       Directors);
      Department discipline profiles translate generic collaboration objectives into specific norms;
      HR policies incentivise and reward collaboration and engagement;
      Research Centres/Institutes promote interdisciplinary Grand Challenge research;
      The Work Foundation facilitates access to a wider stakeholder base within business,
       government and other external organisations;
      Investment of £220k p.a. in collaboration schemes promotes researcher mobility
       (Distinguished Visitor Scheme and supporting international visits).




                                                                                             Page 42
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.1 Collaboration and contribution to the research base




Through University-wide and School-based structures, LUMS researchers respond to local,
national and international priorities through interdisciplinary and disciplinary contributions, with
collaborations across the region, the UK and the world.
Local and regional academic collaborations: LUMS collaborates with all research active HEIs in
the North of England. Programmes include shared parental leave (Manchester Metropolitan);
innovation ecosystems for the rural economy (Cumbria); and digital market infrastructures (York).
LUMS is active in N8 and NARTI. Regional collaborations are central to PGR training (Section 2.2).
National academic collaborations: LUMS researchers collaborated on externally funded projects
at 46 UK universities, including 9 of the top 20 UK institutions in the 2020 QS World University
Rankings (QSWUR). We co-delivered 18 conferences/workshops with partners including Bristol,
Exeter and LSE. Researchers contributed plenary addresses for national associations, including
British Academy of Management, British Accounting and Finance Association, British Sociological
Association and Royal Economic Society.
International collaborations: LUMS collaborated with 71 top-100 non-UK QSWUR universities
during REF2021. Researchers from 127 of the top 200 non-UK QSWUR universities visited LUMS
to present research or work with faculty, who in turn participated in 632 international networks and
research programmes (Table 18), including 9 Horizon 2020 collaborations (Table 25), delivering
long-term research and capacity building beyond grant award periods. We engaged in
collaborative doctoral arrangements with 5 international partners. 52% of REF2021 outputs include
non-UK co-authors (Figure 12). Our Open Access data repositories enable international
collaborations (Housing Observatory, Gulf One).
Winter’s appointment in Economics led to the launch of the Andrews and Brunner Lecture Series,
featuring two Nobel Prize for Economics winners in successive years, Roth (Stanford) and Smith
(Chapman), and engaging the research community across the UK in workshops.
For our PGRs, the Centre for Financial Econometrics, Asset Markets and Macroeconomic Policy
fosters international cooperation to develop econometricians. Formal partnership agreements with
Toulouse and WHU Otto Beisheim deliver workshops and support PhD mobility. Informal
arrangements support reciprocal PhD visits (e.g., Maastricht with Accounting). As a founding
member of the European Accounting Association’s Talent Workshop, LUMS helped establish their
PhD proposals feedback Peer Mentoring Initiative. STOR-i has formal collaboration agreements
with world-leading academic institutions, including MIT's Sloan School of Management,
Northwestern University, Naval Postgraduate School, University College Dublin, and Big Insight
Oslo.




                                                                                                Page 43
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Table 18: International networks of research excellence
 Network             Description:                           Outputs
 Strategy-as-        Founding member of network of          Teaching materials, books,
 Practice Network    3,000-plus academics and               journal special issues. 12
                     practitioners across 150 countries,    independent workshops and
                     spanning strategic management,         tracks at leading conferences
                     business administration, business      (Academy of Management,
                     history, entrepreneurship,             BAM, EURAM).
                     management and organisational
                     studies, marketing, leadership,
                     anthropology, sociology, economics,
                     economic sociology.
 Mergers &           Founding member (Bauer). Fosters       Webinar series hosted by
 Acquisitions        knowledge exchange among Europe,       M&A Review, German M&A
 Network             USA, Asia M&A                          Association, MADiscover.
                     practitioners/scholars. Practitioner
                     partners: Siemens AG, Aurelius, EY,
                     Deloitte, T-Systems.
 Transformative      Piacentini is Advisory Committee       Three conferences resulting
 Consumer            Member. Network focuses on             in journal special issues; 9
 Research            consumer research for societal well-   international ECR workshops.
 Network             being, predominantly in USA.
                     Higgins, Cocker, Skandalis, Cronin
                     shape UK/Europe direction.
 European            LUMS founded with Tilburg and          2 annual
 Banking Centre      Luxembourg (2014). c.50 top            conferences/workshops;
                     European researchers, policy bodies    newsletters promoting policy-
                     (European Bank for Reconstruction      relevant research, research
                     and Development, Bank of England),     dissemination, an knowledge
                     and international schools. Ioannidou   exchange with key policy
                     on senior management team.             bodies




                                                                                        Page 44
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Figure 12. Geographical Spread of Internationally Co-authored Papers




Journal editorial roles: Colleagues held 115 senior journal editorial roles at 52 international
journals (Table 19), and 83 editorial board positions at 54 international journals. Researchers
accepted 28 guest editor roles (including British Journal of Management, Human Relations,
Strategic Management Journal). 87% of faculty review for three or more international journals.
Table 19: Examples of LUMS Roles in Globally Celebrated Journals

Journal                                           Role
Academy of Management Journal                     Vaara (Associate Editor)
Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice              Jack (Editor)
Management Science                                Ehrgott (Associate Editor)
Operations Research                               Letchford (Associate Editor)
Journal of the European Economic Association      Durante (Editor)
Information Systems Research                      Tarafdar (Associate Editor)
International J of Operations and Production      Spring; Hendry (Associate Editors)
Management
International Journal of Research in Marketing    Puntoni (Associate Editor)
Journal of Operations Management                  Spring (Associate Editor)
MIS Quarterly                                     Introna; Sutanto (Associate Editors)


155 awards, prizes and honours: including best paper prizes (Journal of Management Studies;
De Massis) and outstanding reviewer awards (Entrepreneurship, Theory and Practice; Kotlar,
Journal of Economic Geography; Faulconbridge). High-profile awards include: Beale Medal,
Premier Award of the Operational Research Society (Glazebrook, Fildes); President’s Medal and
Companion of OR Award of Operational Research Society (Zografos, Eglese); INFORMS
Edelman Laureate Medal (Zografos); British Academy of Management Medal (Mason); Bank of


                                                                                           Page 45
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
England award for outstanding research on stabilisation policies (Tayler, Zilberman); and EGOS
Honorary Membership (Knights).
17 researchers became Fellows, including: CEPR (Dasgupta, Ioannidou); AcSS (Mason,
Unerman); Cabinet Office (Ford, Mason, Spring); Royal Society of Arts (Williams, Zografos);
Journal of Econometrics (Tsionas); Operational Research Society (Letchford, Zografos);
Chartered Institute of Transport and Logistics (Zografos); British Academy of Management
(Mason). Glazebrook became an INFORMS Fellow (2016), a prestigious honour afforded to only
385 scholars worldwide.
Table 20: Illustrative Keynotes
 Event                                               Date    Speaker        Place
 ICAEW Information for Better Markets                2017    Unerman        London
 International Symposium in Finance Conference       2019    Tsionas        Greece
 Economics of Education Conference                   2017    Johnes         Spain
 Office for National Statistics Human Capital        2019    Walker         London
 Measurement Conference
 Royal Meteorological Society                        2014    Fildes         London
 Royal College of Physicians                         2017    Piacentini     London
 Industry & Parliament Trust, House of Commons       2018    Stead          London
 British Veterinary Association Annual Congress      2019    Hopkinson      London
 Academy of Management                               2017    Whiteman       Atlanta, USA
 Academy of Management                               2019    Sparrow        Boston, USA
 NHS Board                                           2017    West           Edinburgh


We had 438 invited keynotes, plenaries and conference presentations (Table 20). Conference
Chairs include: Collinson (International Studying Leadership Conference, 2018); Campopiano
(IFERA, 2019); Glazebrook (OR Society Research Panel, 2016-18).

Research Council or similar national and international committees: 105 researchers sat on or
held reviewer roles, contributing to high-quality research training, disseminating knowledge,
enhancing UK research, and democratising the research process. Faculty held key grant
committee roles, including: ESRC peer review panel (Alexander, Anderson, Faulconbridge,
Hamilton, Hogg, Leitch, Mason, Nolte, Spring, Walker, Williamson), EPSRC (Eglese, Fildes,
Glazebrook, Kheiri, Leitch, Letchford, Lulli, Zografos), Australian Research Council (Fildes),
Irish Research Council (Dada), Swedish Research Council (Ahl), National Science Foundation
(Selviaridis).

Doctoral training programmes: LUMS delivered 27 ESRC DTP events and 41 NARTI workshops
and retreats. Training is a Research Centre priority. For example, FEAMMP delivered 17 PhD
workshops, 51 seminars and 2 summer schools. Researchers contribute regularly to high-profile
European doctoral research training events: European Institute for Advanced Studies in
Management EDEN seminar series (Hendry, Selviaridis), EAA Doctoral Colloquium (Young); and
Summer Programme in Accounting Research (Goncharov, Young). 32 PhD graduates took up
research positions outside academia.




                                                                                        Page 46
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.2 Research Collaboration with wider Economy and Society




The University Research Enterprise Services (RES), Research Institutes and LUMS Departments
and Research Centres work together to support research and engagement beyond the University.
LUMS works closely with businesses, representative bodies, policymakers and third sector
organisations to influence local, regional, national and international policy and practice, and to
design, deliver and manage business engagement programmes.

We follow a dual approach to developing sustainable and productive collaborations. 1) We focus
on our core strengths and enduring business networks, where we are recognised as leaders in
supporting SMEs, entrepreneurs, family businesses, and their supply chains. 2) We use our scale,
diversity and structure to respond to national and international priorities and user needs;
drawing on diverse disciplines, theoretical frameworks, methods and data. We prioritise
collaborations that improve good work, productivity, organisational performance and sustainability,
and encourage collaborations beyond traditional definitions.

Local and Regional collaborations: As a long-standing civic university, we focus significant effort
on developing programmes with local and regional organisations (including Lancaster City Council,
Cumbria and Lancashire Local Enterprise Partnerships, Manchester Growth Company, Cavendish
Enterprises, Table 21). LUMS was one of the first UK business schools to receive the Small
Business Charter Award, in 2014.

National collaborations: These involve policy forums, government departments (Cabinet Office,
Department for Communities & Local Government, BEIS) and national regulators (FCA).
Collaborative, research-led regional programmes are pioneers for UK-wide schemes (W2GH,
Made Smarter, Productivity through People). The policy-oriented Work Foundation stimulates
wider stakeholder involvement (Tables 21, 22).

International collaborations: We extend our reach by working with regulators (Securities and
Exchange Commission, European Parliament), multinational corporations (Unilever, Pfizer,
AstraZeneca), international business groups, NGOs and others. We have partnerships in 60
countries, including working to boost trade with China, build African water supply capacity, and
improve natural disaster response in SE Asia (Tables 21, 22).




                                                                                            Page 47
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Table 21: Collaborative networks and partnerships supporting SMEs
 Collaborative initiative  Period Role
 Knowledge Acceleration    2009-   Helping NW Europe SMEs access innovation
 & Responsible             14      support and technology. Improved regional
 Innovation Meta-network           competitiveness by creating technology transfer
                                   centre network.
 Innovation for Growth     2010-   Embedding innovation into business and
                           14      management of 300 NW England SMEs.
                                   Supported product/process development,
                                   diversification and growth.
 London Creative and       2012-   LUMS-led £5.8m project for Greater London
 Digital Fusion            14      Authority. Supported growth-focused creative and
                                   digital sector. Network comprises: Imagination
                                   Lancaster, Work Foundation, Queen Mary
                                   University, Centre for Creative Collaboration
                                   (University of London), Council for Industry and
                                   Higher Education, Royal College of Art.
 Lancashire Forum          2013-   Directors and managers leadership support.
                           20+     Partnership with UCLAN/BOOST Business
                                   Lancashire. Performing well against targets: 137
                                   businesses assisted; 39 jobs created; 17 new
                                   products/services developed.
 Cumbria Forum             2014-   Complements Lancashire Forum. Delivered with
                           20+     Cumbria Growth Hub. All targets exceeded: 75
                                   businesses supported; 38.6 jobs created; 20 new
                                   products/services developed.
 China Catalyst            2014-   Reinvigorated UK export performance, supporting
                           18      trade development between UK SMEs and Chinese
                                   companies. Partners included HEFCE, Lancashire
                                   County Council, Guangdong Provincial Office of
                                   Science & Technology, Chinese Academy of
                                   Science, UK Trade & Investment, China-Britain
                                   Business Council, Technology Strategy Board.
 Cumbria Innovations       2017-   Assists Cumbrian SMEs to develop innovation
 Platform                  20+     strategies and accelerate ideas to market.
                                   Partnering with LU Faculty of Science and
                                   Technology.
 Innovation in             2015-   Leadership and innovation programme with BAE
 Manufacturing &           16      Systems, Siemens, High Value Manufacturing
 Engineering                       Catapult, UK Commission for Employment & Skills.
 Low Carbon Innovation     2017-   Helps Lancashire SMEs embrace eco-innovation
 Forum                     20+     and reduce carbon footprint. Partnering with 43
                                   SMEs.
 Employer Engagement       2018-   Helps advanced engineering/manufacturing SMEs
 for Skills in             20+     with long-standing LUMS relationships access
 Manufacturing &                   higher-level work-based skills training.
 Engineering


                                                                                      Page 48
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Table 22: Collaborative networks and partnerships addressing vital challenges
 Collaborative           Period Role
 initiative
 Berkeley Innovation     2012-   Provides insights on innovation challenges
 Forum                   2020    confronting global companies and responsive
                                 strategies. Network comprises selected Fortune 100
                                 company directors with experience of managing
                                 innovation. LUMS is one of two university members.
 Wave 2 Growth Hub       2014-   Oversight and management of projects across 16
 (W2GH)                  2017    English city regions, supported by Regional Growth
                                 Fund resources. Underpinned by LUMS Integrated
                                 Learning Model for SME managers.
 Productivity through    2017-   Collaborative training with Be the Business, BAE
 People                  2021    Systems, Siemens, and Rolls-Royce. Supports and
                                 invests in manufacturers of tomorrow and supply
                                 chains, creating high-performance workplaces.
 RECIRCULATE             2017-   Builds capacity in Africa to translate high-quality
                         2022    research into products, processes and services to
                                 solve water crisis through safe, sustainable water.
                                 Network includes LU Environmental Science
                                 researchers, African researchers/businesses/
                                 policymakers.
 Made Smarter            2019-   Part of £20m government sponsored industrial
                         20+     digitalisation initiative for aerospace related
                                 manufacturing sectors following Made Smarter
                                 Review. LUMS leads NW pilot with Manchester
                                 Growth Company, 5 NW Growth Hubs, BEIS, Digital
                                 and Manufacturing Catapults, NW Business
                                 Leadership Team.
 Emergency Response 2019-        Working with natural disaster management
 Management              2022    organisations in Sudan and Indonesia to improve
 (RESPOND-OR)                    emergency response. Includes Indonesia’s National
                                 Disaster Management Authority, Disaster
                                 Management Agency of the Yogyakarta Special
                                 Region, Humanitarian Forum Indonesia; RedR
                                 Indonesia; Nile Basin Institute; Universities of
                                 Indonesia, Gadjah Mada, Khartoum.
 5G Rural Integrated     2018-   Identify institutional voids inhibiting sustainable rural
 Testbed (5GRIT;         2022    digital economy in Cumbria/North Yorkshire. Partners
 MANY)                           include SMEs, AI/Communications experts, DCMS,
                                 Ofcom, NGO.
 Arctic Basecamp at      2017-   Annual outreach event at World Economic Forum.
 Davos                   2020    Partners include World Business Council for
                                 Sustainable Development, Arctic Focus, Future Earth,
                                 Every Breath Matters, Krim Group, Global CCS
                                 Institute, alongside high-profile activists (Greta
                                 Thunberg) and figures from business (James



                                                                                             Page 49
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Collaborative             Period    Role
 initiative
                                     Balsillie), politics (Al Gore) and the arts (Rainn
                                     Wilson).
 Leaders in Residence      2018-     Provide strategic guidance on business engagement
                           2020      and research impact, support development of
                                     executive education and practical SME support.
                                     Comprises senior executives with experience of
                                     organisations including Siemens, GSK, Bentley
                                     Motors, Sellafield.

Our collaborations enrich the research base. Trusted relationships lead to business development
opportunities which: stimulate research ideas; give access for data collection to research staff and
PhD students; and support recruitment of new business clients and students. Our 61
Entrepreneurs-in-Residence (SME owners and managers) are illustrative of this enrichment. They
contribute significant resources to collaborations with researchers, students and businesses and
ensure our RRI approach is embedded across LUMS.




                                                                                            Page 50
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.3 Contribution to economy & society




Research Engagement Support led by business partnership managers, the development of
engagement activity, and an inclusive staff development and Research Enhancement programme
aid researchers in generating significant economic and societal impact.

High quality SME collaborations: Locally, regionally and nationally, these have significant socio-
economic impact. LUMS has worked with c.6,000 SMEs across the North West of England. Our
expertise in entrepreneurial and integrated learning (Cope, Hamilton, Kempster, Gordon,
Zozimo) shaped our innovative SME development programmes. We continue to evolve these
learning models (Jack, Spring) to ensure continuous impact. We understand SMEs’ significance
and diversity, enabling us to develop research-led solutions. We work directly with and through
critical networks and partners to address systemic issues, such as innovation and productivity,
facing this critical section of the UK economy. We provide solutions to idiosyncratic challenges at
individual business level, and shape local and national policy agendas through distinctive
collaborative structures involving key stakeholders.

Table 23. Examples of outcomes of LUMS Impact Programmes
Where specific data were not collected, we estimated impact based on previous track record.
 Programme               SMEs          People      New         New       New Business
                         Engaged       with New Products/ Jobs           Collaborations
                                       Skills      Services
 Creative & Digital      526           358         63          n/a       300
 Fusion
 Lancashire Forum        137           93          17          39        93
 Cumbria Forum           75            51          20          38.6      51
 Made Smarter            22            22          n/a         n/a       18
 Productivity through    200           136         n/a         n/a       24
 People
 Growth Hub              5,000         3,400       600         4,108     3,400
 China Catalyst          363           78          11          n/a       33
 Total                   6,301         4,147       711         4,185.6 3,901

Our internationally acknowledged strengths in family business (Campopiano, Kotlar, De Massis),
leadership, management learning (Hamilton, Kempster, Leitch; Faulconbridge, Introna), and
operations management (Spring) underpins interventions to support SME growth and
development (Table 23) and our European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) programmes
(Tables 21, 22), developed in partnership with business leaders, policymakers and NGOs (Table
23). An independent economic evaluation showed LUMS ERDF-funded programmes put £28 of


                                                                                           Page 51
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
value into the economy for every £1 of public funding (Ekosgen, June 2019, Impact Evaluation and
Summative Assessment of ESIRF-funded Projects).

LUMS research impacts diverse societal groups through innovative channels (Table 24). Specific
examples include:

Public exhibitions: 300 people attended the 2019 art exhibition The Marketplace and I in
Lancaster, which built on research (Higgins) promoting social change for consumers living with
disability. Information systems research London City Parks Connected (Sutanto) was exhibited at
the Chartered Association of Business Schools Research Conference in 2018, welcoming 50-plus
policymakers, practitioners and members of the public.

Targeted engagement events organised by LUMS Research Centres provide a base to shape
agendas outside the academy. CMAF organised Using Open-Source Software, Developments in
Retailing Demand Forecasting and Machine Learning and AI. The Productivity Centre’s
Productivity Connections series featured as speakers Phil Smith (Cisco); Mark Keese (OECD); and
Sarah Hodgetts (BEIS).
Public Engagement: During the 2019 LU Campus in the City, Hayes led Apps in the City,
engaging the public with Mobile-Age, an app providing older adults with information on services,
volunteering opportunities, events, transport, facilities, and weather, thus reducing barriers to social
participation. Campus in the City attracted 5,593 visitors, 96 on the day of Apps in the City. Online
forums (increased due to Covid-19 restrictions) opened engagements such as Economics’
Andrews and Brunner Lecture Series to a wider, more geographically spread audience of more
than 350 participants. The 2018 Community Voice forum enabled c.50 members of Cumbria
communities to shape local 5G development in a 5G Rural Integrated Testbed project.

Evidence to Parliamentary Committees: Stead contributed to the 2018 Government Equalities
Office guidance for employers by providing evidence to its Workplace and Gender Equality
Research Programme on women’s progression in the workplace. In July 2018, LUMS responded to
the BEIS Call for Evidence on firm-level factors affecting productivity, drawing on extensive
academic research, evidence our business engagement programmes’ impact, and the findings of
Productivity Connections workshops (Spring, Hughes). In 2020, Stowell presented to DEFRA on
e-waste and the circular economy providing practical applications through the UK Electrical and
Electronic Equipment and Waste of Electrical and Electronic Equipment Study. In total, seven
LUMS researchers engaged with various committees.




                                                                                               Page 52
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Table 24. Diversity and Reach of LUMS Impact Activities
 Research Programme        Communities Engaged              Reach & Impacts
 ELIEMENTAL (H2020)        56 trainers engaged 1,000-       53% achieved quality
 (Downs)                   plus participants from           employment (12-28% norm for
                           vulnerable groups to co-create   such interventions) after 6
                           soft-skills-based approach to    months. MIND to roll out
                           learning. 800 downloads/         nationwide project, adopted by
                           month of free-to-download        Eden Education. Follow-on
                           resources.                       award £400k in 2019.
 Fatherhood & Shared       Fatherhood Institute, National   Kerrane advised BEIS SPL
 Parental Leave            Childbirth Trust, Working        policy review. Created free
 (Kerrane)                 Families, BEIS.                  parental resources via Working
                                                            Families website. Elements fed
                                                            nationwide government
                                                            campaign on SPL.
 Mobile-Age (H2020)         300-plus older adult            Reached Town, District and
 (Hayes, Introna; ISF)      volunteers, South Lakeland      County Councils, MEPs, NHS.
                            District Council, Age UK, Red   Six policy briefings accessed
                            Cross and Age Platform,         5,000-plus times. Alertacall
                            Alertacall, European            piloting app in South Lakes
                            Parliament, UK MP.              Housing, plan to expand across
                                                            UK. Featured on regional
                                                            national & international radio,
                                                            TV, press.
 Improving Radiotherapy     Rosemere Cancer Centre,         Algorithm and software adopted
 Treatment Planning         Leeds St James Hospital,        by Lancashire Teaching
 (Ehrgott).                 doctors, radiotherapists        Hospitals.
 Role of central banks in   Bank for International          Shaped German Council of
 monetary and financial     Settlements (BIS), European     Economic Experts policy;
 stability (Ioannidou,      Commission, International       European Parliament DG for
 Goncharov, Schmaiz)        Monetary Fund, World Bank       Internal Policies, Governor of
                                                            Reserve Bank of India, BIS,
                                                            European Central Bank, IMF,
                                                            World Bank Group.
 Stress and Info. Tech at   Tarafdar on DCMS Digital        Organisational policy change
 Work (Tarafdar)            Skills Research Working         (Nestlé). Shapes Google’s
                            Group, Nestlé UK – c.2000       wellbeing app design.
                            managers. 30 companies via
                            Unplug, including Google.
 Open Strategizing:         120 Swedish expats in Hong      Working with Swedish
 Expats developing          Kong                            companies to support
 business in China                                          collaboration, exchange and
 (Demir)                                                    market penetration in China
 Decision Analytic          UN Sustainable Development      Transforming water usage, and
 Framework to Explore       Solutions Network; local        food and energy production in
 the Water-Energy-Food      African stakeholders;           Omo-Turkana and Zambezi
 nexus (Tsionas)            Government Institutions         River Basins


                                                                                       Page 53
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Programme          Communities Engaged                Reach & Impacts
 Surveillance                Federal University of Minas        Led to “Operation Panopticon”,
 technologies and            Gerais, Brazilian Government,      preventative deforestation
 fostering innovative        Brazilian NGOs                     reduction initiative, a showcase
 deforestation control                                          of innovation within Brazilian
 policies in Brazilian                                          Ministry of the Environment.
 Amazon (Vurdubakis)
 National Parks (Truch,      National Park City Foundation,     Establish National Park City
 Sutanto)                    Greater London Authority           Foundation, contributing to:
                                                                Designation of London as
                                                                world’s first National Park City,
                                                                £12m Greener City Fund and
                                                                promotion of NPC principles in
                                                                London Environment Strategy.
 Sustainable development     Local stakeholders in              180 Entrepreneurs in County
 in Marginalised Rural       marginalised areas of UK,          Donegal, and c.100 Honduras
 Communities                 Ireland, Honduras and Finland;     families; supporting
 (McKeever, Discua           British Crafts Council, Heritage   entrepreneurship policy
 Cruz, Jack, Anderson;       Crafts Association, Crafts         initiatives internationally
 Pentland)                   Council Netherlands, Dutch
                             Centre for Intangible Cultural
                             Heritage


LUMS research makes significant impact locally, regionally, nationally and internationally.

Local Enterprise Partnerships (LEPs): When the UK Government tasked LEPs to develop Local
Industrial Strategies reflecting place-based economic opportunities/priorities, Lancaster worked
with Cumbria and Lancashire LEPs, the Centre for Nuclear Excellence and LUMS Engagement
Office: all with interest and expertise in innovation ecosystems. Lancaster’s directed ESRC Impact
Acceleration Account (IAA) matches funding to support innovation strategy co-development across
LEPs, aimed at revitalising the region, strengthening and extending business links, and generating
a deeper understanding of LEP needs. LUMS researchers (Ford, Mason, McKeever, Larty)
engage with the NP11 group of LEPs across the Northern Powerhouse and external research
partners to develop ground-breaking ecosystem value management approaches for rural towns
across the UK. This connects Town, City and District Councils in collective innovation and
regeneration.

National Government engagement: LUMS researchers shape evidenced-based, expert-informed
implementable policies for the social good (Table 25).




                                                                                              Page 54
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Table 25. Illustrative Research for UK Government
 Research               Lead           Gov. Dept.        Impact
                        Researcher
 Social and             Downs          Lords Select      Informed House of Lords Select
 Economic Impact of                    Committee         Committee report
 Gambling Industry
 Valuing Your Talent Hesketh           Cabinet Office    Global multinational
                                                         corporations and asset
                                                         managers. US SEC and
                                                         Congress policy adoption
 Global Islamic         Izzledin        HM Treasury/     Informed debate on
 Finance and                            House of         macroeconomic conditions in
 Investment Group                       Lords            Islamic finance market after oil
 annual meeting                                          price drop, and Islamic banking
                                                         and finance in 21st century
 Open Innovation        Mason &         Cabinet Office   Developed processes across
 Practice               Ford                             Whitehall to inform policy-
                                                         making with academic insight
 Business Models for    Mason           Dept of DCMS     Developed use case business
 5G                                                      models to support the case for
                                                         investment in 5G market
                                                         infrastructure in North West rural
                                                         communities
 5G Market              Mason           Dept of DCMS     Developed an inclusive citizens
 Infrastructures                                         project for 5G rural market
                                                         infrastructures to identify needs
                                                         and shape technology
                                                         placement for socio-economic
                                                         flourishing
 Manufacturing          Spring          BEIS, Cabinet    Informed BEIS report on
 Productivity                           Office           Business Productivity Review,
                                                         2019
 Relationship           Walker          DfE; HM          HM Treasury lifted home student
 between HE and UK                      Treasury;        HE numbers cap
 undergraduate                          Cabinet Office
 earnings

This diverse and inclusive engagement enriches our research environment, drives activities within
the faculty, University and with external partners, and delivers impact from research excellence.




                                                                                              Page 55
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.4. Looking ahead
The challenges of rebooting the post-Covid economy and society, Brexit, the Northern Powerhouse
and the “levelling-up” agenda, stimulate new opportunities with which we are well-placed to
engage. LUMS is ready to embrace its role as a leading Civic Management School, continuing to
successfully engage with SMEs and other key stakeholders to responsibly tackle the Grand
Challenges of organisational performance & good work, productivity, and sustainability. We are
directing additional resources to address these global concerns by:
     Securing corporate and applied research investment;
     Generating executive and professional development income, student internships, and
        career placements;
     Prioritising opportunities such as UKRI’s Strength in Places Fund, the UK Shared
        Prosperity Fund, and the UK Government’s successor to ESIF following the UK’s departure
        from the EU.

Growing our research significance in these areas will sustain and widen our collaborations and
contributions to the research base, continuing to build our management research legacy and
delivering impact and engagement regionally, nationally and internationally.




                                                                                          Page 56
