Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Edge Hill University

 Unit of Assessment: 24. Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Unit context
 With a strong emphasis on collaborative working and interdisciplinarity, Edge Hill University’s
 (EHU) sport and physical activity research is focused on three areas: youth physical activity and
 health; sport-related mental health and wellbeing; and nutrition supplementation to enhance
 sports performance. Our award-winning community-based research has informed policy and
 practice in diverse settings including schools, charities, sports and other cultural organisations,
 with various beneficiaries including children, young people, sports professionals, and those with
 serious health conditions. This work addresses problems that are defined and co-developed in
 collaboration with longstanding research partners including Sport England, Rugby League
 Cares, Everton in the Community (EitC), as well as new partnerships including the West
 Lancashire Sport Partnership (WLSP) and Blackburn Rovers FC (see section 4). With the
 support of significant external funding, our research has had life-enhancing impacts on both
 physical and mental health for people locally, nationally, and internationally.
 EHU first submitted to UOA26 in REF2014 and reflects the research of the Department of Sport
 and Physical Activity (SPA). We focused on two thematic areas, Sports Performance and Social
 Science of Sport. That submission included 14 staff (32% of Department’s FTE) and 52 outputs.
 Research impact was a key strength, with 40% at 4* and 20% at 3*. We reported £74,415 in
 research income and one PhD award.

 Our research strategy for this REF period has built on this inaugural submission to enhance
 sustainability and vitality, through focusing on staff development; quality research outputs; and
 partnership building. To do so, we:
    1. Invested in staff to support researchers at all career stages to reach their potential and to
       facilitate the transition of all academic staff to become independent researchers. We
       have also ensured that there is researcher leadership through both appointments and
       promotions. We are submitting 83% of the Department’s staff which is a 143% increase
       on REF2014. The staff without SRR are being supported to become independent
       researchers (see section 2).
    2. Enhanced the quality of research outputs through the development of our research
       processes and environment, including peer review and support of research groups, to
       help make strong contributions to the knowledge base (see REF2). Our outputs have
       grown by 68% in the period.
    3. Extended our collaborations and interdisciplinary approach both internally and externally
       with existing partners, and developed new external partners to co-create research
       projects and outputs, to ensure significant and continuing research impact. Partnership
       development is actively encouraged in research design phases and all researchers are
       encouraged to identify potential partners and collaborators from design stage. Our
       partnerships have grown as evidenced in section 4.
    4. Built sustainable research capacity through a substantial increase in bids and resulting in
       external grant capture and income. We are seeing a steady increase in the number of
       bids made to a range of funders and our income has increased significantly by 773%
       (see section 3).
    5. Extended our record of PhD awards significantly, and increased the number of externally
       funded PhD students: 22 PhDs were awarded and we recruited eight externally-funded
       PhD students (see section 2).
 Unit structure
 Our research is organised within the five research groups identified below. These reflect staff
 interests and expertise, as well as a strong commitment to undertaking applied and co-created

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research with beneficiaries from a diverse range of organisations and settings. Staff and PGR
 students undertake research that corresponds to one primary research group, but the multi- and
 inter-disciplinary nature of our research means staff frequently work across multiple groups to
 generate research outputs and impact. On the census date, the Department is home to 41FTE
 academic staff at different career stages and the research groups include staff at all stages to
 ensure sustainability. They are supported by four FTE administrative staff and three FTE
 technician staff. The Department is also home to eight GTAs, four self-funding PhD students,
 and fifteen full-time Master’s by Research (MRes) students.
 The Movement Behaviours, Health, and Wellbeing group (MBHWB) is led by Fairclough, with
 support from Midgley, who mentor colleagues with developing research profiles (Martin-Smith,
 MacDonald (ECR), and Tyler (ECR)). The group’s research aligns with the behavioural
 epidemiological framework to understand and promote movement behaviours. This focuses on
 physical activity and sedentary behaviours in relation to health and wellbeing. School-based
 physical-activity interventions, physical activity and sedentary behaviour measurement research
 using novel methodologies, and movement skill development, are also key strengths of the
 group.
 The Sport, Work, and Health (SWH) group is led by Smith with Haycock, Johnson (ECR),
 Lovett (ECR), Nelson, O’Gorman and Purdy as members. The group undertakes sociological
 research on the relationship between sport, work, and health (particularly focusing on mental
 health) in professional and community contexts. This research has a particularly strong applied
 focus and incorporates a wide range of research users from those living in socio-economically
 deprived local communities, to professional athletes.
 The Sports Performance, Exercise, and Nutrition (SPEN) group, led by McNaughton with
 support from Sparks and Marchant (readers), has members at different career stages: Bridge,
 Marrin, and Carnegie (HoD) are mid-career and Cronin, Doncaster, Ellison, Kosteli,
 Langley, and Page have developing profiles. This multi-disciplinary group’s exercise physiology
 and biomechanics work researches the use of nutritional aids to enhance sports performance,
 lower limb function, pacing in endurance sports, and the growth and maturation in youth
 footballers. The group’s psychology research explores the optimising of learning and
 performance in sport (e.g., attentional focus, visual information processing, motivation, feedback,
 competitive environments), the psychological benefits of sport and exercise participation (e.g.,
 youth life skill development, and cognition), and the use of imagery in sport.
 The Politics, Pedagogy, and Practice (PPP) group grew out of the Social Science of Sport
 Research strand identified in the REF2014 submission. Led by Nelson (reader) with support
 from Maher, the team includes staff with developing research profiles Hughes, King, Lovett
 (ECR), O’Gorman, Partington (ECR) Purdy, Sugden (ECR) plus two colleagues currently
 working on PhDs. The PPP group’s research focuses on governance, management, and (micro)
 politics of sports organisations and educational institutions. It also examines the development
 and impact of sport and physical activity policy and programmes, alongside pedagogical
 practices and professional development in sport and physical education.
 The Sports Injuries (SI) group’s research focuses primarily on the prevention and management
 of injury by measuring aetiological markers within sport, health, and exercise contexts via the
 novel use of technology to quantify markers of injury and rehabilitation. The group, led by Greig,
 was formed in 2015 to provide strategic focus for developing collaborations between colleagues
 with emerging research profiles in biomechanics (Langley, Marques and Page) and sports
 therapy (Brogden and Howe (ECR)). A further four group members with sports therapy
 practitioner backgrounds are actively working towards becoming independent researchers as
 part of our strategy to encourage all staff to be research-active and qualified to PhD level.
 Although staff are aligned to one primary research group, we encourage staff to work across
 multiple groups and with colleagues both inside, and outside the Department to enhance multi-
 and inter-disciplinarity. Collaborations among our own research groups include vision analysis
 and movement competence research from the SPEN and MBHW groups. We also collaborate
 with colleagues elsewhere across the University; including work with Computer Science (e.g.,
 Fairclough; investigating machine learning in physical activity and wellbeing surveillance),

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Psychology (e.g., Midgley; exercise rehabilitation through social identity theory in COPD
 patients, and Ellison; impact of sport concussion and wellbeing), Education (Smith, Haycock
 and Lovett; sport and child mental health), Health (Langley; Gait analysis of total hip
 replacement) and Nutrition Science (Sparks; nutrition and ultra-endurance exercise).
 This flexible approach promotes novel ways of thinking which enables us to build a stable and
 sustainable base of research activity which is responsive to the changing needs of research
 users, including public-health commissioners; commercial organisations; charities, and
 practitioners. Thus, our research addresses the social, cultural, and economic challenges
 experienced locally, nationally and globally. Developing multi- and inter-disciplinary research
 teams in established and growing research areas also informs continuation and succession
 planning for future staff recruitment, and strategic decision-making for existing staff research
 development activities.
 Our research ethos also places strong emphasis on impact and partnership building. As such,
 reciprocal modes of collaboration have been crucial for the co-production of knowledge, and for
 assisting the development of academic engagement with non-academic research users.
 Moreover, staff leading the impact agenda have previous experience of facilitating impact with
 external partners and this has driven a broader impact culture which has widened and
 developed research impact capability across our research discipline areas. For example,
 Fairclough developed and promoted impact staff-development training and disseminated the
 materials to colleagues to use as reference-guidance when planning new projects. Our three
 REF2021 impact case studies are indicative of such training and development, arising from
 established bodies of research and collaborative activities conducted with longstanding external
 partners Sport England, EitC, and Rugby League Cares and new partners in this period, West
 Lancashire Sport Partnership. The newly developed Sports Injuries research group was formed
 following the REF2014 impact case study in this area led by Greig. This line of ‘pracademic’
 research has continued during the current REF cycle with Blackburn Rovers FC and provides
 the foundations for a future REF impact case study aligned to sports injuries in professional
 football.
 Our research strategy and culture are compliant with the Concordat to Support Research
 Integrity. We are bound by the standards and processes of the University and our own particular
 professional bodies (such as BASES and CIMPSA). Most of the departmental projects are
 reviewed by the Science REC which is a multi-disciplinary committee chaired by McNaughton.
 Projects which require HRA ethical approval are reviewed by the University’s Health REC (of
 which Langley and Ross are members) before being submitted to the HRA. Alongside
 departmental structures (see section 3), significant contributions to the University’s research
 governance are made by McNaughton and Midgley, particularly in relation to laboratory
 protocols and operating procedures, and HTA research guidance, respectively. Staff understand
 that integrity is based on respecting all those who are involved in research to ensure their well-
 being and safety; and this has been particularly important as research re-emerges after COVID-
 19 restrictions.
 Published outputs are made available in open-access format through the EHU Pure repository
 and, where possible, colleagues maximise the ‘read-and-publish’ agreements that the University
 has with specific publishers, including PLOS-One, Taylor and Francis. Gold open access has
 been particularly valuable to increase exposure and awareness of specific outputs and more
 generally, the research conducted by our groups. For example, in 2020 Fairclough’s gold open
 access output in the field-leading International Journal of Behavioural Nutrition and Physical
 Activity, received the award for the journal’s most cited observational study, this is in the top 5%
 of Altmetric’s attention scores. We are also developing more rigorous approaches to open
 research through open data on open science and presentations on the open science framework.
 This is an area for development, but we are working to embed this within our research culture.

  Future research strategy
 Our sport, physical activity and health-related applied and community-based research is driven
 by questions that require co-developed collaborative work with partners who use our research to
 inform their practices and policies. This approach has been embraced as a central element of

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 our research culture and has been a key aspect of our ability to attract significant external grants
 (see section 3) which will sustain future work beyond REF2021. This work will be realised
 through the continuation and development of strong collaborative relationships with our
 community and industry partners, which will facilitate the development of new impact case
 studies, including those built upon our existing ones. We will review the multi- and inter-
 disciplinary expertise within existing research groups to evaluate the potential for creating
 research centres that generate novel research of demonstrable benefit to our research users
 and stakeholders in all areas. We will also continue to invest in our staff, and support staff to
 make their transition to research independence so that we can achieve our goal of 100% of
 current staff being independent researchers at the next REF census date. We will also continue
 to make appointments that align with our research strengths, whilst implementing policies and
 practices that will facilitate a diversification of our staffing base. We will continue to place
 emphasis on external funding from charities and affiliated bodies, but also orientate our goals to
 higher cost recovery sources. We will continue our interdisciplinary work with institutes and
 departments at EHU and beyond, and seek to further embed research excellence within our
 research culture, to improve the quality, as well as quantity, of outputs. We will also seek to
 double the number of PhD completions in the next period.

 2. People
 Overview
 Since REF2014 we have been in a period of development with two key priorities: the
 establishment of research leadership, and the mentoring and support of early- and mid-career
 researchers to expand research capacity and strengthen our research culture and environment.
 We are fortunate to have colleagues with extensive practice-based expertise which enables the
 Department to align to end users; this has also helped to enable colleagues with practitioner
 backgrounds to become independent researchers. All staff have contributed to peer-reviewed
 outputs as authors, which is evidence of this commitment, and reinforces our research culture of
 supportive research staff development. Our people strategy is also compliant with the Concordat
 to Support the Career Development of Researchers and staff are actively encouraged to engage
 with all staff development opportunities, including external training and conference attendance.
 Academic staff appointments have been made to senior, mid-career, and ECR positions, which
 have provided a strong mix of leadership and developmental potential. Since 2014 the
 leadership capacity of our research programmes has been strengthened through the recruitment
 (Fairclough) and promotion (Greig: August 2020) of two professors, and progression of four
 staff from senior lecturer to reader (Marchant, Nelson, and Sparks with Maher being promoted
 in August 2020). Professors and readers adopt research group leadership roles and consider the
 needs and development of their discipline areas within the context of the wider Department
 research strategy. Readers are supported in this role by line managers (all professors) who offer
 advice and guidance and share good practice. As a result, leadership is provided in each
 research group by experienced staff who guide and mentor peers. We develop lecturing staff to
 meet research goals – PGR student supervisory experience, assistance with grant applications,
 methods development, etc. – that align with progression criteria, so staff are able to advance
 within and between grades. ECRs are integrated into research teams; for example, Johnson is
 part of the team researching community sport and mental health, and Tyler is part of the team
 researching children’s 24-hour movement behaviours. As such ECRs benefit from the wider
 research environment and have access both to informal support and formal guidance by
 managers and/or mentors to map out their medium-term research plans, so that development
 needs can be identified and met.
 Strategic deployment of existing staff within research groups has improved research
 expectations and capabilities. For instance, during the REF2021 cycle, Greig moved from the
 Sports Performance, Exercise, and Nutrition group to lead the Sports Injuries group, an
 innovation in the period. Greig has provided substantial leadership and mentoring for the staff in
 this group who, reflecting the practitioner and clinical nature of sports therapy degrees, includes
 disproportionately fewer independent researchers than in other groups. This leadership
 intervention has increased research collaboration among Sports Injuries colleagues, all of whom
 are now research active, if not yet independent, with developing publication records. This has

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 been achieved through collaborative research projects with all staff having defined and
 supported roles during the project followed by a systematic process of manuscript construction
 and supportive review before submission. In the next REF cycle, they will continue to be
 supported to complete their transition to research independence. An interdisciplinary project led
 by the group explores health of dance performers (with colleagues in Nutrition and Performing
 Arts).

 Equality and diversity
 In this submission, 83% of SPA’s academic staff are identified as having SRR, up from 30% in
 REF2014, demonstrating the success of our investment in staff over the period. Our REF2021
 submission shows a significant improvement in female representation, with eight (24%) female
 and twenty-six (76%) male members of staff included, all based in SPA except for one male
 colleague. This compares with two females (14%) and twelve males (86%) in REF2014. In
 terms of outputs being submitted, articles attributed to female colleagues are under-represented,
 which is potentially explained by a larger proportion of female colleagues being ECRs (38% of
 women, 15% of men). To address this, we will support women to take on lead authorship roles
 as they move out of ECR status.
 We recognised that we still have work to do on both diversity and gender representation within
 the Department. Our SPA Athena Swan Bronze application (outcome pending April 2021)
 acknowledges the need for further improved female representation, particularly in senior
 positions, and the actions include developing supportive strategies for female staff to achieve
 promotion (e.g., to reader, professor). In response we have introduced mentoring from
 experienced female researchers external to the Department, to avoid overburdening our small
 number of female colleagues, and encourage participation in leadership training (e.g., Advance
 HE’s Aurora). In the next REF period, we will also focus on female representation amongst our
 PGR student community to create a ‘pipeline’ of future female researchers by reflecting on how
 we promote our recruitment opportunities so that we reach under-represented groups. With
 respect to gender, we will promote women’s success in sport through organising a ‘Women in
 Sport’ Conference: we hope this will also attract potential applicants, both for academic posts
 and PhDs, who will then have greater knowledge and understanding of sport at Edge Hill. We
 will also ensure that 50% of speakers in our seminar series are women as we appreciate that
 this not only gives women a greater voice, but provides role models for students who will be the
 next generation of researchers.
 The lack of ethnic diversity in the Department broadly reflects the sector and therefore our
 approach must be to engage with sector-wide initiatives. Nevertheless, we are committed to
 addressing this through encouraging the appointment of BAME visiting professors and
 researchers. We will also look to make the GTA scheme more attractive to BAME PhD students
 by engaging with undergraduate and master’s degree providers who have more diverse profiles
 to promote our opportunities. It will be crucial that our recruitment processes, particularly where
 we advertise opportunities (networks and disciplinary associations etc) and language used in job
 descriptions, encourages researchers who are underrepresented to consider our opportunities.
 We will also adopt additional measures to support part-time doctoral study, and ensuring
 maximum diversity in supervisory teams, where practical and possible. In addition, we will
 continue to actively encourage applicants from all backgrounds to apply to all research roles at
 all levels whilst actively promoting the nature of our research.
 The University is also a mindful employer, committed to supporting mental health and wellbeing
 and a Disability Confident employer committed to recruiting, supporting, developing and
 retaining disabled staff. Options such as flexible working patterns and remote working are
 available to all staff, which can be of particular benefit to those with caring responsibilities,
 disabilities and health conditions. For example, where COVID restrictions have made it
 necessary, staff in this unit have been supported to work remotely, restructure their working
 patterns, access counselling services, have regular ‘keep-in-touch’ meetings with their line
 managers, and those with parental responsibilities have had the opportunity to take periods of
 special leave. To support wellbeing, all staff are encouraged to take annual leave throughout the
 academic year, rather than as one large block during the summer.

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 With regard to returning to research from long-term absence, managers are cognisant of the
 significant shift in focus back into the work environment after long-term absence and treat each
 staff member’s circumstances sensitively. Establishing agreed objectives is a valuable
 motivational aid to support returners back into the routine of research activity but such objectives
 are flexible, adaptable, and are driven by the staff member’s progress as they re-immerse
 themselves in the job role and managed via PDRs. Colleagues returning to research after
 maternity leave discuss their aims and aspirations with line managers while on maternity leave
 as part of their allocated ‘keeping in touch’ days, where desired, which can be used for research-
 related activity. This activity is specific to each individual and in the recent past has included
 manuscript writing, data analysis, research-related meetings with colleagues and developing a
 new programme of research with external partners. We encourage staff returning from long-term
 leave to access the priority stream in RIF; those who had RIF and other internal awards before
 their absence, automatically have those grants extended to cover the period of leave. Two
 members of staff included in the submission are returners from long-term absence.

 Staff development
 Staff training and development are provided via the University’s Researcher Development
 Programme, through the institutes and, in a more bespoke manner, by the Department.
 Academic staff undertake a research needs analysis with line managers and are supported by
 research mentors. Staff are regularly directed to in-house research training activities that are
 focused on specific research skills (e.g., project management, grant writing), methods (e.g.,
 conducting interviews, constructing questionnaires), and software applications (e.g., GraphPad,
 SPSS, NVivo). We also place strong emphasis on improving staff awareness of research quality
 indicators through research group activities such as journal clubs, dedicated research and
 impact planning meetings, and informal peer review via colleagues who are editors or on
 editorial boards. This gives staff confidence to identify the most appropriate journals for their
 research, taking into account the audience, reach, international significance, and novelty of the
 research. This includes broadly influential journals with high rejection rates, as well as specialist
 outlets relevant to particular disciplines.
 With a specific strategic focus on increasing external research grant funding, all staff with SRR
 were required to build grant funding into research planning during the period. 5-year research
 plans, with goals that relate to grant capture, are discussed bi-annually through the personal
 performance development and review (PDR) process. To enable the ongoing success of this
 strategy beyond 2021, we will work to improve staff confidence, expertise, and understanding of
 the application process to increase the pool of colleagues making applications.
 Staff can apply for staff development funding to take external courses (e.g., staff enrolment on
 courses for multilevel modelling, compositional data analysis, and ultrasound diagnostics) where
 there is no internal provision. These plans are anticipated and planned for in PDR meetings
 where staff identify their development needs and discuss potential opportunities for training
 and/or staff development funding applications. Less experienced colleagues receive mentoring
 from more established researchers who provide guidance and support with specific
 developmental needs. For instance, Fairclough trained Tyler as a new member of staff and
 ECR to undertake raw accelerometer data processing, then following PDR discussions Tyler
 enrolled in an online Compositional Data Analysis training course; in turn, he will mentor others
 using such methods including PGRs. Although we have no sabbatical system, staff can also
 apply for University research support funds for periods of teaching relief to advance research
 activities. McNaughton received such funds to be visiting scholar at the University of Sao Paulo
 which has resulted in nine articles and the collaboration is on-going.
 All staff contribute to the broader research environment in addition to their discipline-specific
 activities. Our research seminar series provides a forum for SPA staff and PGR students to
 share their work and gain valuable presentation experience. External speakers delivering
 presentations have also been important for stimulating staff discussion and interest in new
 research areas: the Department has been significantly enhanced by visits and presentations
 from external speakers who are international field-leaders including Professor David
 Lubans (University of Newcastle, Australia), Professor Greg Welk (Iowa State University, USA),

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Professor Gareth Stratton (Swansea University), Professor Dominic Micklewright (University of
 Essex), and Professor Alan St Clair Gibson (University of Hull). Since these presentations
 Fairclough for example has collaborated with Welk (Youth Activity Profile YST funded project),
 Lubans (co-editors of Routledge Handbook of Youth Physical Activity), and Stratton (MRC and
 UKRPR grant applications). Our commitment to having 50% women presenters in the future will
 help to broaden the potential for new collaborations.
 The Department also works closely with the University’s research institutes, particularly the
 Health Research Institute (HRI) and Institute for Social Responsibility (ISR). This facilitates
 interdisciplinary working, but also offers opportunities for senior staff to act in a mentoring role,
 and for ECRs/MCRs to access further sources of training and development. Fairclough is a
 member of HRI Management Group (MacDonald as the alternate) and leads the Public Health
 research theme and contributes to HRI staff development activities. This included leading a
 successful RITA funding application with colleagues from the Department of Computer Science
 and Faculty of Health, Social Care, and Medicine. Several Department staff are members of the
 ISR (Haycock, King, O’Gorman, Smith), have contributed to roundtables (Haycock, Smith),
 led Institute-supported events at the University’s Festival of Ideas (Haycock, Johnson, Smith),
 and submitted external funding applications to organisations including the Wellcome Trust with
 support of the ISR grant writing series (Smith). Smith also served on the Internal Advisory
 Board.
 Our culture also views all students as nascent researchers and so we strive to engage them in
 the research process to both enrich their individual experience and to ensure a pipeline of
 researchers across the range of disciplines common to our research. Research seminars are
 therefore open to all students and where appropriate, undergraduate students are encouraged to
 integrate their dissertation projects within PGR student and staff research programmes. In the
 next REF period, we will introduce an internship scheme for UGs to participate formally in the
 Unit’s research activities, while two of our current RAs were former MSc students who engaged
 in research-related work with our partners EitC, while completing their studies.

 ECRs and those transitioning to research independence
 The research aspirations and development needs of ECRs are discussed through the probation
 and/or PDR processes. Line managers agree an appropriate balance of research and teaching
 goals to guide ECRs’ workloads while enabling development of research, organisational, and
 leadership capabilities. This can involve activities such as engaging with external collaborators
 and partners, giving research seminar and conference presentations, planning internal and ECR
 external grant applications, leading research group activities, co-authoring research outputs, and
 gaining PGR student supervisory experience. ECRs are mentored by more experienced
 researchers within their disciplines and are encouraged to seek out multi-disciplinary research
 opportunities through engagement with the University’s three research institutes. This has led to
 a number of successful outcomes and specific career enhancing developments for individual
 ECRs; specifically successful grant applications, The Waterloo Foundation grant (Tyler), and
 NIHR Clinical Research Network North West Coast (Langley) and staff taking up their first PGR
 supervisory roles (Brogden, Ellison, MacDonald), Moreover, the research group structure
 provides a supportive environment for ECRs to build confidence working collegially and with
 more experienced colleagues on peer-reviewed outputs, for example Johnson’s work with
 Marchant and other colleagues; and gain experience of leading research grant bids, for
 example MacDonald (through applications for internal funds).
 Formal research training is also available to staff who have entered academia from practitioner
 backgrounds. Such staff can undertake PhD study with support from the Department. In the
 REF2021 cycle, staff have also been supported with the cost of PhD fees and enhanced staff
 development allocation, equivalent to research time allocation for independent researchers, to
 help them progress their studies. Staff without PhDs who have a series of linked publications
 can apply for a PhD by published work under the guidance of an internal mentor: one member of
 staff completed his PhD by publication during the REF period. Six practitioner colleagues are
 being supported to become independent researchers: three are pursuing PhD by publication and
 three are studying for PhDs with other HEIs. Support is tailored to the needs to each individual

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and includes collaborative project working, research skills and methods development, allocated
 research time, group writing, and mentorship from more senior colleagues. As a result of our
 recruitment policy and staff development support, 85% of staff have PhDs. This approach is
 consistent with our strategic intention for all current staff to be independent researchers by the
 next REF census date.

 Postgraduate research students and supervisory capacity
 Our PGR student community has grown significantly since 2014 (one award) and this has
 resulted in a notable increase in awards, with 19 PhD students completing their studies (no
 professional doctorates). Our PhD student training and support is coordinated by Greig and is
 central to our excellent record of timely completions. Tools such as the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework (RDF) are available to monitor and record PGR students’ research
 skills, experiences, and competencies. Use of the RDF is a requirement for PGR students within
 their project registration process and informs ongoing student-supervisory team discussion
 through the duration of the programme of study. At the census date, there are 12 PhD and 15
 MRes students who are distributed among the research groups, with a further seven PhD and
 seven MRes students starting their studies in January 2021. Of the seven PhD students
 registering in 2021, three previously completed the MRes, one an MSc, and another completed
 BSc studies at EHU, highlighting a pull-through of PGR students from undergraduate and
 masters to PhD level study.
 Most PGR students produce peer-reviewed outputs during their period of registration. This is a
 deliberate strategy employed to enhance professional development of the students and
 improving their employability. The benefits of this approach are evidenced by the fact that, within
 the REF2021 cycle, upon completion of their doctorates 100% of our PGR students went on to
 post-doctoral research positions, lectureships, or research-related posts in industry; including
 postdoctoral research fellowships at University of Limerick (Taylor) and Leeds Beckett University
 (Sanders); and lecturers in Child and Adolescent Mental Health (EHU: Owen); Sport and
 Exercise Science (Birmingham City University: Gough); in Sport and Health (Staffordshire
 University: Duffell), and Sport, Physical Activity Health (EHU: Johnson).
 This increase in PhD registrations and completions has undoubtedly been enabled by the
 University’s highly effective GTA scheme. To complement this, our strong partnerships, both
 established and new, have helped staff to secure external funding for PhD studentships from a
 range of partners (see section 3). Around one-third of the PGR students in the Department have
 been supported by external funds. This increase in the number of PGR students and awards
 reflects the strategy of recruiting staff with research experience and expertise and facilitating
 their development during the REF2021 cycle. The volume of PGR students studying in the
 Department since REF2014 has allowed more staff to take on research student supervisory
 roles. Furthermore, staff also supervise PGR students in the Faculty of Health, Social Care, and
 Medicine, and Faculty of Education, and at other universities in the UK and overseas. This
 collective growth in the number of staff supervising PGR students has expanded the breadth of
 methodological and discipline expertise needed to support the growing diversity of multi- and
 inter-disciplinary PhD research projects undertaken in the Department.

 REF Management
 REF2021 preparations were a collective effort from all staff in the Department. The process
 involved each staff member using the REF criteria to complete self-ratings of their outputs, which
 were then independently reviewed by two staff with knowledge of the research discipline area.
 Wherever possible we aimed to pair up a more senior researcher (typically professors, readers,
 and senior lecturers) with a less experienced colleague (including ECRs), so development and
 support were embedded into the process. The peer-review comments were shared with
 submitting staff and included suggestions to enhance and develop their research. These steps
 led to each output being given an indicative rating. This process was introduced early in the
 REF2021 cycle and fed into a ‘mock REF’ exercise in 2017. Feedback on general areas for
 development of outputs noted through the mock REF were communicated to staff (immediately
 after the exercise and revisited, where appropriate, in performance development review
 meetings) to encourage them to act on this and aim to produce their best possible work in the

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 remaining years of the REF cycle. Once staff with SRR were identified, a longlist of outputs was
 considered by the professors and readers group which resulted in the preliminary outputs
 selection. All stages of the process were supported by the Department Administration team who
 managed communications for the self-rating and peer-review phases and ensured the timely
 uploading of ratings and comments to the Pure REF management system. At all stages,
 information was shared to ensure transparency and staff were reminded that the number of
 outputs included in the REF would have no bearing on career progression or promotion, or,
 indeed, access to any research support resources.

 Beyond REF2021
 We are committed to growing our research community at all levels in the post-REF2021 period.
 Academic staff appointments will be aligned to our research aspirations, but emphasis also
 placed on continuing to diversify our staffing base. Further, in the coming years we aim to grow
 our PGR community through increased marketing of MRes opportunities to our undergraduate
 students. In addition, we will continue to propose novel PhD projects to attract high quality
 applicants through the University GTA scheme which will complement a planned increase in
 collaborative funding applications to support externally funded PhD studentships and research
 assistant positions. We are also exploring new M-level taught provision with an applied research
 focus which can provide enhanced progression opportunities from our undergraduates.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
  Research income
 Our funding successes during the period have arisen from the development of strong
 collaborative partnerships with external organisations cultivated by staff during both this, and the
 previous, REF period (see below). This strategy has had significant success. External research
 income for REF 2014 was £74,415; for REF2021 we are reporting external grant income of
 £649,781 from 53 external funding applications representing a 773% improvement. Reflecting
 partnership working, 42% of applications in this period were successful. This significant growth
 in research income is a consequence of our commitment to this key research strategy objective.
 Our strategic efforts to develop strong applied research collaborations and generate income
 have resulted in funding from internationally recognised organisations. Alongside our very
 fruitful, long-standing partnerships with EitC, RFL and Sport England, we have established
 relationships with industry (Les Mills International, Asta Real); local authorities (Lancashire
 County Council, Sefton Borough Council); charities (Rugby League Cares, West Lancashire
 Sport Partnership, Youth Sport Trust); professional bodies (the Premier League, the English
 Football Association, Sports Coach UK, Everton Football Club). Collectively, these funding
 awards have helped to grow the national and international profile and reputation of our award-
 winning, impact-focused, research. Some have also funded PhD projects (Asta Real, Sport
 England, Sefton Council and WLSP). In turn, this has helped to win additional grants from
 national funding bodies (Research England, Sport England, Big Lottery, The Waterloo
 Foundation). Our external research funding sources thus reflect the diverse nature of the SPA
 research groups. Moreover, this increased level of external grant applications and awards is
 consistent with the upward trajectories of outputs from those research groups, with the majority
 of the funding applications and successful awards having been in the areas of physical activity,
 sport, and mental health with additional contributions in sports performance nutrition, and
 coaching.
 The University’s RIF awards are an additional resource that have supported SPA research since
 REF2014, particularly with respect to supporting projects that have resulted in securing external
 funds. In the current period Department staff made 28 successful RIF applications (six from
 ECRs) to support project work (total awarded £184,063) and 43 applications (nine from ECRs) to
 support conference attendance (total awarded £27,766). This funding has been used
 strategically to achieve our research aims by pump priming further research, developing external
 grant applications, and employing research staff to build our research capacity. Examples
 include Fairclough’s RIF-funded Youth Activity Profile project. This was key to securing external
 funding to extend the work from the Youth Sport Trust, which also involved international

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaborations with Iowa State University, and resulted in research outputs. Additionally, RIF
 funding awarded to Langley in partnership with Wrightington, Wigan, and Leigh (WWL) NHS
 Foundation Trust laid the groundwork for subsequent external funding from Symbios Orthopédie
 S.A., while the research resulting from Sparks’ RIF award contributed to the evidence base
 underpinning the research funded by Asta Real.
 As a relatively young Department in research terms, bid development is in a capacity-building
 phase which has largely been led by the professoriate. We will support less experienced staff to
 make external bids by following our existing, successful, strategy of partnership building with
 research-users who also fund research noted above. We will also, however, encourage staff to
 make bids to research councils and identify suitable programmes and funder priorities for their
 research interests and career stage. These plans will be identified early and ECRs and MCRs
 will work with experienced mentors, both internally to the Department and externally where
 required, to develop strong, competitive bids. We will also encourage them to seek
 collaborations to work with experienced PIs on larger projects.
 Our revised bidding strategy has a number of strands as we have moved beyond dependence
 on internal funds for our research projects. The RIF investment has begun to show outcomes as
 discussed and a culture of bidding is beginning to emerge. For ECRs and those immediately
 post-ECR, we encourage them to plan for external bidding by targeting smaller funds, such as
 the British Academy, and then gradually to look to other funders such as Nuffield, NIHR and
 ESRC – focusing particularly on thematic priorities within health and wellbeing. We recognised
 that these funds are extremely competitive, so we also encourage colleagues to work with more
 experienced staff both in EHU and beyond. To do this, networking is crucial so that partners can
 recognise that our researchers can fill gaps in expertise. In addition, we will work with younger
 colleagues to identify funding programmes specifically aimed at ECRs. More senior colleagues
 will continue to target more substantial amounts of funding from research councils, major
 charities, and organisations, including NIHR, to significantly impact on our research capacity and
 capability. This is resulting in a higher volume of bids; this includes, in the census period,
 submissions to MRC, ESRC, and Wellcome Trust. While these have yet to be successful, they
 are indicative of our goal to increase the balance of awards with higher overheads.
 Given our track record in developing partnerships by identifying charities and other organisations
 that require our expertise to address their challenges, we are able to support less experienced
 colleagues to engage with this approach. Langley’s work with WWL is an example of an ECR
 targeting appropriate partners, both internal (through the Health Research Institute and with
 University funding) and key external, that enhance research and help secure external funding.
 Our existing work with schools means we are well-positioned to engage with the post-COVID
 wellbeing agenda that is emerging which focuses on a holistic approach to children’s
 development. Our work also speaks to the current government’s ‘levelling up’ agenda through its
 work on holistic health and wellbeing, particularly in disadvantaged communities.

 Research infrastructure
 In 2015 the Department research infrastructure was more formally embedded through the
 establishment of a Research Committee, with a cross-section of research-active staff
 representing the five research groups, including professors, readers, lecturers, and PhD
 students. It provides a forum for research-related matters to be formally discussed and recorded,
 and subsequently disseminated to the wider staff body via the research group representatives
 on the Committee.
 The Department Research Ethics Committee (DREC), which gave ethical approval to staff and
 PGR student projects, also provided important support via proposal review. In mid-2020 the
 DREC was replaced by institutional subject-level research ethics committees (see REF5a).
 Seven Department staff contribute to these committees as chairs and members and thus still
 gain the development benefits afforded by DREC membership.
 Staff also benefit from activities organised by the three research institutes, such as
 interdisciplinary research seminars and developmental activities to support grant development
 and writing for publication. Interdisciplinary working is also promoted through internal competitive

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 grant calls, with each Institute having its own funding stream. Fairclough and Langley have
 successfully obtained such funds to enable collaborative projects with external partners involving
 colleagues in the Department of Computer Science and the Faculty of Health, Social Care, and
 Medicine, respectively.
 Technical Support
 A team of three technical staff support research through ensuring research activities are Human
 Tissue Act (HTA) compliant, managing equipment procurement, maintenance, and service, and
 assistance during data collection. Where the roles of technical staff overlap with their own
 academic aspirations and career development plans, the Department has supported enrolment
 in PGR programmes with supervision from the academic staff team (e.g., technician Mosher
 completed his MRes in the area of dietary nitrate and cycling time trial performance, which
 resulted in published outputs); this demonstrates our inclusive approach in recognising the
 potential for research at all levels.

 Research facilities
 We have invested in our physical environment and equipment which enable excellent research
 to be conducted and maximise the potential of our high-quality specialist accommodation. We
 have dedicated laboratories and clinical spaces for sport and exercise psychology, exercise
 physiology, biomechanics, biochemistry, strength and conditioning, (p)rehabilitation,
 performance analysis, and physical activity assessment. Since 2014 the University has invested
 circa £70 million in sports and exercise facilities on the campus. This has enhanced the
 opportunities for our applied research work with professional sports performers including Wigan
 Athletic FC, Blackburn Rovers FC, and elite endurance athletes, as well as clinical partners,
 Wigan, Wrightington and Leigh NHS Trust and Aintree University Hospital. Moreover, our
 facilities have assisted research engagement in our community sport and mental health work
 with EitC, Merseyside Sports Foundation and State of Mind Sport, alongside youth physical
 activity studies, for example schools peer-mentor training.
 Technical equipment is also used to generate cutting edge research data. We have over 200
 accelerometers (ActiGraph, GENEactiv, Axivity, Sensewear Armband) that enable innovative
 research into 24-hour movement behaviours, as well as the development of novel accelerometer
 metrics to define physical activity levels for health. Resulting data is processed through a bank of
 high specification PCs and laptops. These devices have enabled high-frequency assessment of
 movement behaviours in children (e.g., AS:Sk Project), adolescents (GPACT Project) and older
 adults (Sport England Get Healthy Get Active Project) resulting in several publications.
 Moreover, this track record of publications has underpinned two MRC Research Methodology
 Programme grant applications in the current REF cycle. These applications achieved
 competitive scores but ultimately were not funded; however, the return on investment of these
 devices has been high in terms of data generated, outputs produced, and staff development
 activity.
 The Sports Injuries group make frequent use of accelerometry-enabled GPS units and the
 isokinetic dynamometer which is the gold standard for clinical assessment of strength. The focus
 on objective markers of injury aetiology has supported MRes and PhD projects, numerous
 outputs, and applied work with professional sports teams (Wigan Athletic FC and Blackburn
 Rovers FC). This work has included clinical case study research; e.g. post-operative anterior
 cruciate ligament rehabilitation. These facilities have allowed practice-oriented staff to gain
 valuable research experience to support their developing profiles.
 The environmental chamber allows the manipulation of both temperature and altitude simulated
 hypoxia and has been used for a range of research projects and athlete acclimation for events
 such as the Marathon des Sables. It has also been used to investigate the use of buffering
 agents at high altitude and ongoing work is investigating whether these substances are effective
 in hot and humid, as well as cold, environments. Many of our physiology and nutrition projects
 have also used the clinical chemistry analyser and microplate reader which is used for enzyme-
 linked immunosorbent assays. Our two blood gas analysers have been extensively used in our
 distinctive work on exogenous buffering agents and exercise performance. This medical-grade
 equipment enables our mechanistic work to elucidate exactly how these buffering agents work to

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 help improve performance. For this reason, the design of all of our experimental protocols is
 heavily dependent on the use of this equipment.
 Our use of the Tobii Glasses 2™ mobile eye tracking system and Sports Vision Trainer™ has
 also allowed a number of projects exploring visual behaviour in skilled and endurance sport
 settings. Simulation and EPrime software have enabled exploration of various cognitive
 functions in relation to acute exercise, while a specialist iMac lab enables our performance
 analysis research.

 Beyond REF2021
 The research funding awarded has enabled a substantial growth in research capacity that has
 been reflected in increased research outputs, enhanced reach and awareness of our research
 among research beneficiaries and stakeholders, growth of the PGR student community, and
 better data collection capabilities through equipment purchases. We plan to build on these
 funding successes in the future by increasing the number of academic staff consistently making
 grant applications each year. We will mentor ECRs and less experienced colleagues in this
 process; for example, working with them on RIF awards or early-career funding streams as a
 precursor to seeking external funds. More experienced staff will apply for more significant
 external awards targeting research councils, major charities, and NIHR. Such applications will
 complement grant proposals to existing and future targeted research partners. We will use these
 financial resources to support activities (e.g., data collection, dissemination, public engagement)
 and expand our capacity to undertake research, particularly via PhD studentships and
 postdoctoral positions. Where we identify a need to purchase equipment to further specific
 research areas, we will make business cases to the University within our annual Department
 review and plan. We recognise that we have excellent technical spaces and equipment for
 research, and will strive to maximise these with community groups and sports organisations at
 all levels as we emerge from Covid-19 restrictions beyond 2021.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Collaborations
 During the REF2021 cycle our commitment to collaborative working in each group has
 contributed to achieving key objectives within our research strategy. Specifically, partnership
 collaborations have been reflected in our success relative to: (1) increasing the volume and
 quality of research outputs: (2) development, identification, and collation of the research impact
 evidence included in our submission; (3) applications for external grant income: and (4) PhD
 student recruitment and timely completions. We therefore consider collaborative working as
 central to our core research activity and continue to invest time and energy into maintaining
 existing partnerships as well as seeking and developing new ones.
 Alongside the collaborators and partners who have funded our research and helped to define
 our research agenda (identified in section 3), we work with many others, both UK and
 international, including: HEIs, Liverpool John Moores, Coventry, Sao Paulo (Brazil), University of
 South Australia, and Iowa State; industry, including Nutriprot GmbH; health bodies, including,
 Liverpool Heart and Chest Hospital and CHAMPS Public Health Collaborative; community and
 voluntary sector; local authorities, including West Lancashire Borough Council, Liverpool City
 Council, and Sefton Council; sports clubs, including Blackburn Rovers FC, Everton FC, and
 Warrington Wolves RLFC; national governing bodies including, The Football Association, and
 the British Canoeing Union; and charities including, State of Mind Sport, and Youth Sport Trust.
 Identification and development of innovative and new routes to impact are actively discussed by
 research groups and embedded strategically into the design of current and planned projects. For
 instance, our physical activity, health, and wellbeing work in West Lancashire schools includes
 regular teacher workshops to discuss the research findings and how curricula and teaching
 delivery can be informed and modified to enhance children’s health literacy and health-related
 behaviours. These impact-related discussions shape the agenda of meetings with external
 partners to gain their input into the most effective ways of translating our research to enhance its
 benefit for end-users and stakeholders. We have co-produced projects including Active Schools:
 Skelmersdale (WLSP), Tackling the Blues (EitC), and Offload (Rugby League Cares). This has

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 also provided opportunities for knowledge exchange and impact-focused dissemination,
 specifically workshops with school stakeholders, community sports workers, senior leaders of
 sports charities, professional sports organisations and arts and cultural organisations. Most
 recently, the benefits of this work in generating knowledge exchange activity was reflected in our
 being awarded of £527,000 by Research England and the Office for Students to extend our work
 with EitC on Tackling the Blues with new partners, including Tate Liverpool.
 Where established partnerships with collaborators are in place, other staff are brought into
 projects to ensure strong co-development, to enable staff development, and to facilitate
 mentoring of ECRs. Moreover, this serves to foster the sharing of new and innovative ideas to
 further the potential of the collaborations. For instance, the introduction of ECR Tyler to our
 collaboration with WLSP led to a novel dynamic motor competence assessment tool, The
 Dragon Challenge, being adopted in local schools to facilitate assessment for learning within
 physical education. The collaboration between Greig and medical staff at Blackburn Rovers FC
 has led to novel objective measures during player profiling and rehabilitation, which has
 produced research outputs and opportunities for PGR research. The inclusion of Haycock,
 Johnson (ECR), and Lovett (ECR), alongside colleagues who are pursuing doctoral study (e.g.,
 Greenough), in our partnership work with EitC has led to the expansion of new research
 programmes on mental health in families, military veterans and physically inactive men, as well
 as mental health support for sports coaches and other delivery staff. Such partnerships exist
 across each of the research groups and enable colleagues to share their expertise and inform
 programmes, initiatives, and policies enacted within the collaborators’ organisations. The applied
 nature of our research work with these partners is a strong and distinguishable feature of our
 submission.

 Contributions to the research base
 Staff undertake significant research service activity in their fields, e.g. research related roles
 including editorial responsibilities, which are identified through the PDR process, and are
 supported through dedicated time and resources. Fairclough is Associate Editor for the Journal
 of Sports Sciences (Physical Activity, Exercise, and Health section), and is on the Editorial
 Board of the International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health (Health
 Behaviour, Chronic Disease and Health Promotion section). He also makes a direct contribution
 to the REF2021 assessment as a Unit 24 sub-panel member. Smith is Managing Editor of
 Leisure Studies, former founding and co-editor of the International Journal of Sport Policy and
 Politics, is on the editorial boards of European Physical Education Review, International Journal
 of Sport Policy and Politics, Qualitative Research in Sport, Exercise and Health, and Guest
 Editor of Frontiers in Sociology, Sociology of Sport Journal, and European Physical Education
 Review. Nelson is an Associate Editor for the Sport Coaching Review journal and is on the
 Editorial Board of the International Sports Coaching Journal. McNaughton is Co-Editor in Chief
 of Research in Sports Medicine, and formerly an Associate Editor for Journal of Science and
 Medicine in Sports, Journal of Sports Medicine and Physical Fitness, and Journal of the
 International Society of Sports Nutrition. Marchant is section editor (Sport and Performance
 Psychology and Motor Learning) for the Journal of Sports Science and Medicine, and formerly
 Associate Editor of Movement Science and Sport Psychology. Greig is an editorial board
 member for Isokinetics and Exercise Science, has been approached by The Society of Sports
 Therapists to develop a Sports Therapy-specific journal, and has also been invited to sit on the
 British Association of Sport and Exercise Medicine’s Scientific Advisory Group. We are also
 represented on the editorial boards of Sports Coaching Review (Purdy), Soccer and Society,
 and Managing Sport and Leisure (O’Gorman), Journal of Science and Cycling, Frontiers in
 Nutrition (Sparks), and Quest (Maher).
 Furthermore, staff support external grant review processes by providing expert peer-reviews of
 applications to esteemed UK and international funders. Among others these include MRC,
 ESRC, NIHR, British Academy, Academy of Finland, Hong Kong Research Grants Council, and
 Exercise and Sports Science Australia (Fairclough, McNaughton, Smith, Maher, Nelson,
 Midgley). Moreover, all academic staff service and contribute to the research base by serving as
 peer-reviewers for journals.


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Invited and keynote conference presentations have been given by staff at events such as the
 Youth Sport Trust Conference, International Sport Business Congress, British Association of
 Sport and Exercise Sciences Conference, and International Sports Sciences Congress
 (Fairclough), government committees (Health Select Committee: Smith) and policy-oriented
 events (Westminster Media Forum: Smith), non-departmental government bodies (Sport
 England, Smith) as well as practitioner-researcher interface events (e.g., Catapult Forum,
 Society of Sports Therapists Annual Forum: Greig; Society of Sports Therapists, Football
 Medicine Performance Association, Healthy Stadia, Mind, Street Games: Smith; EitC Annual
 Health and Wellbeing Conferences: Smith, Haycock, Lovett), and public engagement activities
 (e.g., British Psychological Society endurance psychology: Marchant; European Congress of
 Sports Science and Division of Sport and Exercise Psychology: Smith). Staff have also been
 part of conference scientific organising committees (e.g., British Psychological Society Sport and
 Exercise Psychology conference: Marchant; European Sports Development Network: Smith,
 Haycock and Lovett). In the emerging discipline of sports therapy, Greig presented a session
 on "Facilitating a research culture and platform in sports therapy" at the last annual forum (2019)
 which is helping to shape the discipline.
 Additionally, staff have written or edited textbooks to inform and synthesise the research
 landscape in various fields. These have included the Routledge Handbooks of Youth Physical
 Activity (Fairclough) and of Youth Sport (Smith), as well as books in the areas of sports
 coaching (Nelson), sport governance (King), and teaching physical education in special
 educational needs contexts (Maher).

  Contributions to economy and society
 Smith’s and Haycock’s research contributed to the UK Health Select Committee’s work on
 suicide prevention and All Parliamentary Group on Sport and underpinned the development of
 our school-based sport, education and mental health programme, Tackling the Blues (TtB). In
 late 2016, TtB received the Outstanding Contribution to the Local Community award at the
 Times Higher Education Awards, the 2017 Cross-Sector Award by the Charity Times, and the
 Silver medal at the 2020 National Sports Business Awards for fan engagement. This important
 applied work is detailed in the accompanying impact case study and which led to the award in
 2020 of £527,000 by Research England and the Office for Students to expand the programme
 for a further two years. This has enabled the further development of partnership working with the
 Faculty of Education and creation of a new collaboration with Tate Liverpool to incorporate an art
 for mental health strand into the programme. This will enable more staff at various stages of their
 research careers (e.g., Lovett, Greenough) and new research assistants to benefit from the
 expanded programme of research and knowledge exchange, and contribute to the production of
 research outputs and new impact activity in the next REF cycle.
 Through their work with the national mental health charity ‘Chasing the Stigma’, Smith and
 Haycock’s research informed: (i) the development of the mental health and wellbeing strand of
 the English Premier League’s Life skills and Personal Development programme; (ii) the provision
 of mental health training to 4,000 people from over 20 diverse organisations; (iii) and the
 creation of its free-to-access ‘Hub of Hope’ app which has enabled over 120,000 unique users to
 search for local mental health services and which is now used by NHS England, Mind, Rethink
 Mental Illness, MHFA England, Public Health England and the Samaritans to signpost the public
 to local mental health services. Smith was also invited to contribute to the 2017 independent
 Duty of Care in Sport Review for government, and his work with Haycock has underpinned the
 delivery of mental health work with Rugby League Cares and several rugby league clubs, as well
 as ongoing work with DOCIA Sport and national sports organisations including UK Coaching
 which includes other colleagues with emerging research profiles (e.g. Greenough) who will
 therefore be eligible for inclusion in the next REF.
 Fairclough is a core member of the UK Chief Medical Officers’ Physical Activity Surveillance
 Expert Committee and was an Expert Working Group member for the UK Chief Medical Officers’
 Physical Activity Guidelines for Children and Young People Review (2018-2019). Prior to this he
 was a member of the Department of Health Expert Group for the Children and Young People’s


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Physical Activity Guidelines Infographic and is currently an expert contributor for the Covid-19
 UK Physical Activity and Exercise Expert Rapid Review Service.
 Finally, to ensure broader impact and awareness of our activity and contribution, staff also
 contribute to grey literature, including media outlets (e.g., BBC, Sky Sports, national and
 international newspapers and radio), policy reports and select committee meetings (e.g., UK
 Health Select Committee, Chief Medical Officers’ Physical Activity Guidelines Expert Group),
 independent government reviews and other enquiries (e.g., on duty of care, safeguarding,
 sexual exploitation), podcasts (e.g. on sport and mental health, sports nutrition), professional
 body publications and expert statements (e.g., BASES The Sport and Exercise Scientist, afPE
 Physical Education Matters), voluntary organisations (e.g., National Children’s Bureau), and
 online blogs (e.g., on sport and mental health, physical activity assessment).

 Beyond REF2021
 During the next REF period, departmental processes to support research such as PDR will
 encourage staff to engage in external research activities which are regarded as ‘service’ to our
 research disciplines and communities. Moreover, we want to expand the number of staff
 undertaking external roles contributing to the research base (e.g., journal editorial positions) and
 will proactively encourage colleagues to apply when such positions arise, with associated
 research time allocation to support staff in such roles. Furthermore, as more staff engage in
 future impact and public engagement activities that inform regional and national agendas, we
 aim to increase the proportion of colleagues who make wider contributions to society through
 engagement with research beneficiaries outside of academia, reflecting the culture we have
 established.




                                                                                              Page 15
