Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Nottingham
 Unit of Assessment: C19, Politics and International Studies
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1. Overview
The School of Politics and International Relations (SPIR) has created an excellent, ambitious,
collaborative, and inclusive research environment. SPIR has expanded significantly since 2014
when it returned 33.3 staff. For REF 2021, the School returned 42.1 staff with 105 outputs and four
impact case studies. Since 2014, SPIR has significantly revised its research and impact strategy,
focusing on the adoption of new mechanisms and specific targets that were successfully coordinated
across the School with the support of staff. SPIR subsequently instituted the revised strategy,
comprising Peer Review Committees, Personal Research Planning and related feedback processes,
Internal Output Reviews, research and impact appraisals, impact workload allowances, and grant
review policies for all research staff. SPIR has used these collective and coordinated mechanisms
to:

   •   Provide all research staff with feedback and support throughout the lifecycle of their research,
       impact work, and funding applications.
   •   Deliver 20% workload allowance for 9 members of staff to support impact work.
   •   Grow research income to c.£4.7 million (c.£7.2 million by award), compared to c.£1.3 million
       in the previous cycle.
   •   Commit to open access, making 281 outputs available to anyone with internet access.

1.2 Review of strategy and mechanisms to establish, deliver, and review research
From late 2013, SPIR began the process of preparing a new strategic vision based around
supporting and motivating staff to achieve their full research and impact potential. The School’s
efforts to revise its research and impact strategy complemented the existing ‘five strategies’ goals
advanced in the previous REF cycle (2008-2014)—namely, 1) building and diversifying research
income/awards; 2) developing the research culture and environment; 3) maximising research impact;
4) recruiting high quality postgraduate and postdoctoral students; and 5) cultivating inter-
disciplinarity and internationalisation. As described in REF 2014, significant progress had been made
in achieving each of these goals, which provided a solid foundation for SPIR’s future strategic aims.

In 2014, a Research Working Party focused on creating clear and achievable goals, measurable
targets, and targeted incentives to support staff throughout the lifecycle of their research. SPIR
concentrated on improvements in two areas (research outputs and income strategy, and impact
strategy), which are examined below. The Research Working Party developed a list of
recommendations that were informed by the University Research Strategy and widely discussed by
staff and students to ensure ‘buy in’. These recommendations were ultimately adopted by the School
in 2016. SPIR has subsequently refined its strategy, benefiting from feedback from staff and
guidance from the wider university strategy [Institutional Statement, (hereafter IS),2.1-2.5].

The School has worked hard to nurture a research culture that embodies openness, collegiality, and
inclusion. The Research Committee—which comprises experienced staff who oversee research and
impact work, led by the Director of Research, and supported by a Review and Output Coordinator,
Impact Coordinator, and Grants Coordinator, alongside representatives for postgraduate
researchers (PGRs) and the Ethics Officer—has created or strengthened channels to openly discuss
all new mechanisms. Examples range from monthly newsletters and online training to presentations
and discussion at school meetings. Ongoing consultation has ensured strong support for significant
reforms to SPIR’s research environment and helped to embed a dialogue around research strategy
as well as equality, diversity, and inclusion (EDI) into the School’s culture.

Research outputs and income strategy
SPIR appointed a senior member of staff as a Review and Output Coordinator to help more staff
secure external funding and produce open-access and high-quality research (based on originality,
rigour, and significance). The central mechanisms that the School has used to achieve these
ambitions have been the creation of:

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


   •   Personal Research Plans (PRPs). Every two years (and when applying for study leave), staff
       submit forms to the Research Committee detailing their research, funding, and impact work
       and longer-term ambitions. The Research Committee appoints a Peer Review Committee—
       comprising the Head of School, Director of Research, Review and Output Coordinator,
       Grants Coordinator, and one or two co-opted members of staff to ensure EDI and coverage
       of major areas of expertise—to review these forms and then organise one-to-one meetings
       to offer feedback, guidance, and support. Feedback ranges from highlighting funding
       opportunities to refining book proposals. Staff then revise their plans accordingly, which feeds
       into the preparation of future research plans. As detailed in Figure 1.1, these meetings
       operate as a feedback and learning mechanism for research staff and the Research
       Committee, which works with the Faculty and University to collate data to better support staff,
       especially underrepresented groups, disseminating key insights to the School via
       centres/institutes or meetings/away days.


                    Figure 1.1 Overview of Personal Research Plan process




   •   Internal output reviews (IORs). On a regular basis, staff submit any outputs recently accepted
       for publication to be reviewed by at least one and usually two senior members of staff. The
       resultant feedback helps authors to understand and gauge their performance and to highlight
       routes to improvement. The process allows SPIR to better understand its research strengths
       and staff needs, which complements the Personal Research Plan process. It also helps to
       disseminate the School’s research strategy, socialising staff into reviewing along specific
       criteria and helping them to understand what world-leading research requires.

Members of research staff undergo a Personal Research Plan review on a regular basis and receive
at least one Internal Output Review. The Research Committee gather these data and compile results
for annual interim assessments and comparative analysis. These processes have allowed SPIR to
better support the ambitions of its researchers. One clear metric of success has been a significant
growth in income, which totalled c.£4.7 million in the current cycle in comparison to c.£1.3 million for
REF 2014 (further details in subsection 3.2).

The School’s efforts have facilitated closer monitoring of its research strategy, including EDI, as
detailed by an analysis of SPIR’s REF submission (see Table 1.1). The percentage of outputs
returned by women, for example, reflects the percentage of women research staff. SPIR has already
begun using Personal Research Plans to identify and support future research, especially by
underrepresented groups and early career researchers, and plans to maintain a high quality of
feedback over the coming decade.

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



                               Table 1.1 REF submission analysis

                                                                     %
                             Outputs authored by women               29
                             Research staff returned                100

Impact strategy
SPIR appointed a senior member of staff as Impact Coordinator, assisted by a dedicated faculty-
based Impact Support Officer, to prioritize meaningful policy and public engagement. After screening
the School to identify all research staff engaged in impact, the Impact Coordinator supported them
by:

   •   Offering a 10% workload allowance to 13 members of staff conducting impact work from
       2015/16. This allowance doubled in the following year for 9 members of staff reflecting a
       more targeted approach to support based on the work’s reach and significance.

   •   Hiring the equivalent of a teaching fellow for 23 months in 2017/2018, to free up time for staff
       conducting impact activities.

   •   Providing regular feedback (complemented by Faculty and University-level feedback)
       alongside Personal Research Plans, to discuss progress, offer advice, and determine what
       support was required.

   •   Promoting openness and collegiality by providing guidance on impact support in the context
       of School events, research away days, and regular research appraisals.

   •   Encouraging staff from underrepresented groups to come forward as potential impact case
       study authors (Kettle, Spary, Renz), resulting in a wider and more diverse range of
       applications in this cycle.

The School has worked hard to support the 13 case studies identified since 2014. As detailed in
Table 1.2, SPIR focused its support on 9 cases in 2017 and 5 cases in the following year to maximise
the impact of these efforts.

                                Table 1.2 Impact support process

                                Identification (2015)   Longlisting (2017)   Shortlisting (2019)
        Cases                   13                      9                    5
        Workload allowance      10%                     20%                  20%
        Access to funding       Yes                     Yes                  Yes
        Feedback (SPIR/UoN)     Yes/No                  Yes/Yes              Yes/Yes

The longlist of cases and direct beneficiaries appears in Table 1.3. These examples, most of which
will not be submitted for REF 2021, underline the School’s wide-ranging commitment to impact work
and its many targeted beneficiaries.

SPIR’s commitment to impact is further evidenced by its award-winning efforts, including the ESRC
International Impact Prize (Bales) and a Public Engagement Award and the Vice Chancellor's Medal
(Cormac, Casal Bértoa) from UoN.

The School has already begun using the Personal Research Plan process to identify and support
future impact case studies. Women will make up an even larger share in the coming decade, with
four potential cases by women (Kettle, McCabe, Spary, Renz) already identified.




                                                                                                   Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                            Table 1.3 Longlisted impact case studies

   Author       Contribution                                       Beneficiaries
   Bales,       Using measurement to change global action          Home Office; House of Lords;
   Landman      against modern slavery                             United      Nations;    Freedom
                                                                   Collaborative;     Walk     Free
                                                                   Foundation;     Government    of
                                                                   Norway

   Casal        Shaping Constitutional reform in Georgia           Georgian government; Council of
   Bértoa                                                          Europe;              Transparency
                                                                   International; OSCE Office for
                                                                   Democratic Institutions and Human
                                                                   Rights

   Cormac       Shaping public and practitioner debate about       Cabinet Office; Home       Office;
                secret intelligence                                Ministry of Defence

   Fielding     Informing perceptions of the past and present of   People’s History Museum
                the British Labour party

   Gill         Managing British Sovereign Debt                    Her Majesty’s     Treasury;   US
                                                                   Treasury

   Heywood      Shaping the way we combat corruption               DFID; World Bank; Home Office;
                                                                   Transparency        International;
                                                                   European Commission; Global
                                                                   Integrity; Government of The
                                                                   Netherlands and Peru

   Meyer-       Shaping civil service reform and management        DFID; World Bank; Home Office;
   Sahling                                                         Transparency       International;
                                                                   European Commission; Global
                                                                   Integrity; Government of The
                                                                   Netherlands

   Mumford      Shaping defence and security policymakers and      House of Commons; Ministry of
                practitioners understanding of ‘hybrid’ warfare    Defence; NATO

   Renz         Stimulating more informed debates about Russian    UK Defence Academy; NATO
                defence-decision making


1.3 Research centres and institutes
SPIR recognises and promotes areas of excellence amongst its staff by organising research activity
around nine research centres and institutes. These strategic groupings accommodate all research
staff and PGRs. Since 2014, the School has established three new centres or institutes—namely,
the Asia Research Institute (ARI, which merged the Institute of Asia and Pacific Studies and China
Policy Institute), the Nottingham Interdisciplinary Centre for Economic and Political Research
(NICEP, which replaced the former Centre for Comparative Political Research), and the Research
Centre for the Study of Parties and Democracy (REPRESENT)—as a response to staff interests and
new appointments. These centres have joined the Centre for British Politics (CBP), Centre for the
Study of Normative Political Theory (CONCEPT), Centre for the Study of Political Ideologies (CSPI),
Centre for the Study of Social and Global Justice (CSSGJ), Centre for the Study of Security and
Terrorism (CST), and the Methods and Data Institute (MDi).

The School has used these centres and institutes to structure, organise, and plan research—
encouraging members to develop collaborative projects, exchange feedback, and build scholarly
networks. Each centre has at least one director and is supported by a member of administrative staff.
Research centres/institutes develop and implement their activities autonomously but, to ensure
synergy and consistency, submit annual reports of activities and plans for discussion and approval

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
by the Research Committee. Centres receive equal funding of £1,000 p.a., which covers the costs
of internal and external talks. The Research Committee has also provided up to £3,000 of additional
biddable funding, which has supported PGRs by funding fieldwork and conference participation, the
hosting of visiting PhD students and post-doctoral scholars, and conference organization—
especially those that build networks and foster collaboration.

Three members of staff (Bales, Landman, Cockayne) are based within the Rights Lab, a world-
leading Research Beacon of Excellence hosting the world’s largest group of transdisciplinary modern
slavery researchers committed to ending modern slavery [IS, 2.1a], which exists separately from the
School. Other staff (McCabe, Kettle, Mumford, Janz) are also involved in projects based within this
Beacon—including geospatial monitoring, forced marriage, and enslavement and machine
learning—which has resulted in outputs, impact work, and funding bids for SPIR.

Research activity
The wide range of institutes and centres provides an intellectual home for all members of staff and
early career researchers, PGRs, and postdocs, promoting a sense of belonging and integrating
scholars into the School’s research culture. Centre activity—ranging from the presentation of work
through to impact planning—has helped or supported successful funding bids (McCabe, Burke) and
impact work (Casal Bértoa, Mumford). Centres also host visiting speakers and conferences, creating
opportunities for new research, and support knowledge exchange through the creation of podcasts,
blogs, and policy papers. The Asia Research Institute, for example, provided weekly briefings to
High Commissions/Embassies during the Indian election.

The centres/institutes generate high levels of activity. As detailed in Table 1.4, they have organised
approximately 441 events or talks—namely, seminars, colloquia, workshops, talks, and
conferences—since 2014. The data evidences the School’s role as a centre of political research
nationally and internationally, attracting leading scholars and practitioners from more than 36
countries (details available at centre/institute websites). All research staff and students, and
members of the public in many cases, are welcome to attend.

                                       Table 1.4 Centre data
           Centre/         Research      Events and             Interdisciplinary connections
           Institute        outputs         talks
                           submitted
             ARI               9            110         History; Geography; Economics; Development,
                                                                        Area Studies

             CBP               8             47                           History

          CONCEPT             12             38                    Economics; Philosophy

             CSPI             10             36         History; Media Studies; Psychology; American
                                                       Studies; Classics; Computer Science; Resource
                                                                   Policy and Management

            CSSGJ              9            113                         Economics

             CST              14             18                           History

             MDi               5            N/A                    Economics; Geography

            NICEP             24             72          Business; Economics; Organization Science

         REPRESENT             8             7                Development; and Area Studies
          Rights Lab           6            N/A          Sociology and Social Policy; Geography;
                                                       Business; Development; Economics; Computer
                                                           Science; Health Sciences; Law; Maths
             Total            105           441


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
These centres/institutes also encourage interdisciplinarity within the School. Table 1.4 highlights the
wide range of connections facilitated by these centres, reflecting invited speakers and centre
members from other disciplines. Three centres—ARI, NICEP, and REPRESENT—explicitly focus
on interdisciplinary work with economists, development studies, and area studies experts.

The value of these efforts is evident in SPIR’s submission, which includes co-authored outputs
involving scholars from other fields, including computer science (Stevens), law (Bales) resource
management (Humphrey), and organization science (Gill). More than 10% of the School’s
submission includes work based on Research England’s definition of interdisciplinarity, namely
outcomes that could not be achieved within the framework of a single discipline. SPIR has also
produced many other outputs that engage in interdisciplinarity more broadly, in terms of ideas,
methods, or data from other fields, much of which was facilitated by collaboration within
centres/institutes.

1.4 Sharing and transparency
Every member of research staff has a stake in SPIR’s research strategy; its processes are
democratic, accountable, and transparent. Consultation and two-way feedback concerning research
and impact is encouraged via research newsletters, one-to-one PRP meetings, talks within
centres/institutes, and during School events such as Away Days.

SPIR has strong buy-in from staff for its commitment to external sharing and transparency. Submitted
outputs are deposited within three months to a central Repository known as the Research
Information System. SPIR began uploading outputs from 2014, committing to open access well
before 1 April 2016. It has embraced the importance of open access for all types of research and
has uploaded more than 281 outputs (see Figures 1.2 and 1.3), which far exceeds its REF return.

Data held in the Research Information System is fully discoverable and accessible—eventually being
downloadable and searchable by anyone with an internet connection. The Review and Output
Coordinator promotes UoN’s Publication Checklist and commitment to open access requirements
[IS, 2.3] via regular internal reminders and compliance monitoring. SPIR has also exceeded these
requirements on open access in eight ways:

   •   Trialling discretionary funding for gold open access and encouraging authors to promote
       ungated articles or free open access.
   •   Refining internal initiatives to offer guidance to staff members, including email reminders and
       training sessions.
   •   Inviting the Senior Research Librarian to present on open access (benefits, compliance) at
       Away Days (2015, 2018).
   •   Making data sets associated with some publications open access and encouraging staff to
       use UoN internal systems to deposit data.
   •   Ensuring staff attended OA training courses, focusing on research, management, and data
       sharing, as well as hosting open science/reproducibility /transparent research workshops.
   •   Encouraging staff supervising PGRs to talk about deposit options (embargo/restrictions) and
       open access more broadly.
   •   Ensuring PGRs upload a final version of their thesis to the University eTheses service,
       allowing time-limited restrictions and respecting confidentiality issues.
   •   Recording download statistics for open access theses: 15,497 downloads of PhD/Mres
       theses with SPIR as school for first supervisor since 2014.

SPIR has also developed a longer-term plan to improve ‘data sharing’ by encouraging staff and
students to focus on sharing research rather than targeting specific outlets. The School will focus on
further training, where staff learn how to share different data effectively and meet international
standards on openness [on FAIR, DORA, Plan-S, see IS, 2.3]. Training will consequently inform
publication strategies in future Personal Research Plan reviews.




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The School has also encouraged staff to create ORCID and Google scholar accounts to help share
and measure their work. SPIR has also made good progress on citations (2015-2019), improving its
field weighted impact citation in comparison to the last cycle (2010-2014), as per SciVal.


                        Figure 1.2 Deposited outputs in annual intervals
                      (281 items between 1 January 2014 and 31 July 2020)

             70

             60

             50

             40

             30

             20

             10

              0
                    2014       2015    2016     2017     2018      2019     2020



                           Figure 1.3 Deposited outputs by type (n=281)




1.5 Research ethics and integrity
SPIR remains committed to ethical working practices and professional standards in line with UoN
policies, including compliance with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and the new Code
of Research Conduct and Research Ethics [IS, 2.4], as well as submitting an annual report on
research ethics to the UoN Research Integrity and Ethics Committee.

The 2019 Concordat serves as the basis for Research Ethics and Integrity within the School, which
its Research Ethics Committee has translated into local level polices and practice, as detailed in
Table 1.5.

                                                                                          Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



                             Table 1.5 Embedding ethics and integrity

     Objective                           Implementation and evidence
     Developing       a     supportive   Designated staff oversee research integrity via ethical review
     research culture and creating       form appraisals (and, indirectly, via Personal Research Plans);
     spaces to discuss issues related    ensure information remains up to date and available on
     to research ethics and integrity    relevant websites; and are available to address concerns as
                                         first point of contact. Escalated issues are discussed by
                                         Research Committee/Head of School.

                                         SPIR provide clear and accessible policies and guidelines in a
                                         handbook available to all researchers. It also encourages
                                         consultation and discussion at School Meetings and Away
                                         Days or between researchers and the Research Ethics
                                         Committee via email or meetings.

     Embedding        high    ethical    Thorough vetting and support process provided via relevant
     standards in research including     review and approval by Research Ethics Committee.
     experimental      design    and
     research practice                   Reminders to staff/students for ethical reviews and periodic
                                         refreshers on good practice at away days and staff meetings.

     Handling allegations of research    Regular meetings between Research Officer and Head of
     misconduct      via transparent,    School provide opportunities to prevent, mitigate, or manage
     robust and fair processes           issues, including research misconduct.

                                         Staff meetings provide forums to raise awareness at a local
                                         level, build trust in misconduct processes, and disseminate
                                         escalation procedures.

                                         Anonymity is protected when raising concerns to HoS or HR.
                                         Where allegations are upheld, SPIR would consider imposing
                                         sanctions or corrections, and would take steps to safeguard
                                         the reputation of individuals who are exonerated.

     Training provided to help achieve   Induction programmes introduce researchers and PGRs to
     and maintain good research          ethics and integrity procedures and relevant training materials.
     practice
                                         SPIR/UoN provide short courses, such as ‘Research Integrity’
                                         online, while new members of the Research Ethics Committee
                                         attend ‘Introduction to the ethics review process’.

                                         All first year PGR students must complete an ethical review in
                                         consultation with their supervisor, submitted for annual review.
                                         Subsequent and significant changes require reapproval.

     Supporting transparent and open     SPIR organised faculty-wide reproducibility conference and
     science and reproducibility         workshop with hands-on training about data sharing and
                                         research integrity for qualitative and quantitative researchers
                                         on all career levels.


1.6 SPIR and COVID-19
The School revised and implemented its new research and impact strategy well before the COVID-
19 crisis and quarantine/lockdown period. Consequently, only recent research activity has been
disrupted. In response to these challenges, SPIR has successfully adopted flexible working
practices, including a transition to online meetings and data sharing. It has consequently been able
to maintain everything from peer review committees and Personal Research Planning to research
appraisals and grant application reviews. Since lockdown, for example, a further internal output

                                                                                                      Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
review has been completed, eight new funding bids have been received, and work on COVID-19
has been published (Meyer-Sahling, Landman). Research centres/institutes have also adopted
webinars and online presentations to ensure the continuation of research activity and used them to
attract more speakers and attendees from outside the UK.

1.7 Future development
In 2021, the Research Committee will finish revising the School’s research and impact plans for the
next decade and then seek feedback from the School on two new priorities:

   •   Advancing open research. Shifting attitudes and working practices towards world-leading
       research openness by providing more training and adopting new procedures to support and
       audit compliance of Open Access/Data requirements to align with international standards.

   •   Strengthening research priorities and groups. Working with staff to review the number of
       research centres/institutes in line with the demands of the next decade, seeking to ensure
       that SPIR operates an efficient and well-coordinated approach to supporting research
       outputs, impact work, and external bids.

These efforts, in addition to the longer-term research and impact aims outlined above, should
complement the new mechanisms and targets outlined above, which themselves built on the ‘five
strategies’ devised in the previous cycle. SPIR will consolidate its research and management
infrastructure and continue to support research with impact.

 2. People

2.1 Overview
The School comprises 14.3 (FTE) Professors, 14 Associate Professors/Readers, and 13.8 Assistant
Professors. SPIR has committed itself to a culture that embodies research excellence and openness,
by focusing on inclusion, diversity, and respect. SPIR has supported its people and students via
staffing, training, and development strategies, drawing on the resources provided by UoN [IS, 3.1-
3.3]. Driven by UoN’s codes of conduct and practice [IS, 2.4], the School ensures all research staff
receive the same opportunities in terms of research leave, training, impact support, and personal
research       allowances.    Special    efforts    have    been     made     to    address    EDI
imbalances/underrepresentation. Examples include encouraging job applications from
underrepresented groups, removing gendered language in advertisements, providing training on
unconscious bias in hiring policies. SPIR’s efforts and improvements are evidenced by:

   •   An Athena Swan Bronze Award in 2019.
   •   Promotions offered to, or the hiring of, five women for professorships since 2014.
   •   More women in senior management roles, including Head of School (Milazzo).

SPIR also remains committed to developing the next generation of political scientists by attracting
and supporting a large and diverse group of talented scholars. These efforts include:

   •   Securing funding for 31 PhD students and ensuring c.85 PhD completions since 2014.
   •   Encouraging diversity amongst PhDs: 38.7% ethnic minorities and 55.2% women in 2019.
   •   Supporting new staff via mentorship, eligibility for study leave one semester earlier, and 100
       hours of workload relief per year for those within 3 years of their PhD.

2.2 Staffing strategy
The School’s staff profile largely reflects the legacy of appointments prior to 2014. Nevertheless, it
has made 13 appointments over the last seven years. SPIR created a new working party on
appointments—in addition to regularly soliciting opinions from research staff—to consider the
School’s size, shape, and expertise. Its recruitment strategy continues to focus on the appointment
of high-quality staff by advertising largely open positions, which typically generate large recruitment
pools that are international in nature, allowing the shortlisting of talented candidates for interviews


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and presentations. Hiring decisions are informed by collective feedback based on candidate
performance and fit with the School.

SPIR continues to support the recruitment of early-career researchers via direct hires (Janz, Kettle)
or through Nottingham Research Fellowships, which have led to two new members of staff (Casal
Bértoa, Walter). In addition, and with university support, the School has also benefited from targeted
hires at professorial level (Cockayne, Landman) and as part of the School’s strategic development
of impact work for the Rights Lab (Bales).

The School is also committed to promoting the talent it has recruited. Since 2014, 26 members of
staff (12 women and 14 men) have been promoted to associate or full professor (NB. promotions in
2020 officially occurred one day after census date).

Six colleagues (Cormac, Gill, Milazzo, Mumford, Neundorf, Renz)—three men and three women—
have been offered promotions twice in the current REF period, evidencing a deliberate strategy of
supporting, developing, and retaining scholarly talent. These efforts help to promote a vibrant and
dynamic environment whereby relatively junior staff have undertaken key leadership roles.

The School has proactively identified and actively encouraged staff from underrepresented groups
to apply for promotion—whether via informal discussions or Personal Research Plan meetings—and
supported their preparations. The Head of School also mentors all candidates. SPIR has clearly
communicated the university’s shift towards a more holistic approach to research in promotions—
which includes knowledge exchange, teaching and learning, and academic service [IS, 3.1]—and
clarified that success will not change working conditions, such as flexible working. These efforts have
encouraged more staff from underrepresented groups to consider promotion or to apply earlier.

2.3 Staff development
The use of the Personal Research Plans has allowed staff to highlight their expectations and needs,
which allows SPIR to provide tailored research and impact guidance, complementing existing
mentoring, probation, appraisal, and training processes. These processes also allow the School to
raise ethical, EDI, open access, or risk management issues with staff as required.

Training also plays an important role in staff development. The Methods and Data Institute organizes
a programme of ‘methods clinics’ alongside more traditional training formats and focused workshops
on specific aspects of research methods. PGRs and staff also have access to a wide range of short-
courses and training programmes provided by UoN in person and online. SPIR (Janz) has also
trialled a staff writing group to provide a dedicated space to boost research outputs and develop
writing skills.

Recognizing and rewarding staff
A regular research newsletter helps to highlight the important work produced by staff. In addition to
the use of promotions—as well as the workload allowances and additional funding opportunities
detailed above—the School rewards staff for research and impact work with study leave. SPIR allows
research staff to apply for one semester of study leave in every seven semesters of service, which
includes periods of maternity/paternity leave.

Study leave is not an entitlement. There are rigorous reviews in place, and agreement of objectives
and deliverables beforehand, to ensure applications are justified considering research and impact
performance. A peer review committee may recommend approval, revision and re-submission, or
rejection. Colleagues are also required to submit a report detailing their achievements after each
period of leave for discussion with Research Committee.

Of returned staff eligible for leave, there has been a 100% take-up of this scheme, albeit with several
major revisions and resubmissions prior to acceptance. Staff’s research and impact have benefited
significantly from research leave, which have allowed staff to complete major projects, including
significant monographs (Gill, Spary), and begin new projects, including successful funding bids
(Eadie, Khan, Neundorf).

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Research leaders
UoN provides a Research Leaders’ Programme [IS, 3.1] as part of its Leadership and Management
Academy to develop mid-career staff. Five members of staff have completed this competitive
university-wide programme before assuming leadership positions in the School, including
Deputy/Director of Research (Meyer-Sahling, Cormac, Casal Bértoa) and Deputy Head and Head of
School (Mumford, Rees).

SPIR has also advertised leadership opportunities widely and encouraged applications from
underrepresented groups, leading to more women in key research positions (Milazzo). Heads and
chairs of major committees receive research support, typically via workload allowances, to protect
their own research and impact.

Exchanges and secondments
The School has stimulated and facilitated exchanges between academia and public bodies via
secondments. Relevant opportunities were shared widely by the Research Committee and
supported with internal funding and workload allowances, allowing staff time away from normal
duties. Examples include secondments to Her Majesty’s Treasury (Gill), the Ministry of Defence
(Kettle), and the BBC (Sullivan), in which staff secured first-hand access to data/people with which
to improve their own research and simultaneously use their own insights to inform the work of
policymakers.

2.4 Equality, diversity, and inclusion
UoN remains committed to improving EDI, as detailed in its Code of Practice [IS, 2.4, 3.6]. In support
of these efforts, SPIR has adopted a proactive approach to deliver change, seeking to: 1)
demonstrate equality in experience for all; 2) strengthen diversity and improve inclusion; and 3)
promote excellence and ambition in the delivery of EDI. The School has concentred on realising
these objectives in four areas—gender, ethnicity, disability, and age—and details them below.

Gender
The School employs by FTE 12.8 women (30.4%) and 29.3 men (69.5%) and strives for a balanced
workforce as evidenced by the creation of an Athena Swan Committee in 2016-17. The gender
breakdown by level is detailed in Table 2.1-2.2.

                       Table 2.1 Gender at Assistant and Associate level

                            Assistant professor     Associate professor
                            F           M           F          M
                            5.8         8           6          8
                            42 %        58%         43%        57%

The data show nearing levels of parity at the assistant and associate levels. Given the size of staff
numbers at each level, any promotions/departures/appointments could significantly alter the current
balance in either direction. SPIR continues to monitor this balance closely.

                               Table 2.2 Gender at Professor level

                               Census date          1 August 2020
                               F       M            F        M
                               1       13.3         3        12.5
                               7%      93%          19%      81%

The data at professor level is given at the census date and one day afterwards. The former could
give a misleading impression of the School’s efforts to support women over the last seven years.
One female colleague (Sargisson) was promoted, and another (Neundorf) was offered a promotion
in the last cycle. In addition, SPIR also made an external hire at professor level (Testa). The School
nevertheless lost four talented professors, one via retirement (Sargisson) and three whose success

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
in SPIR made them highly sought after elsewhere (Lowndes, Neundorf, Testa). Moreover, the School
promoted two new women professors in early 2020 (Milazzo, Renz), which became official after the
REF 2021 census deadline.

Ethnicity
Of the 42 staff who responded, four (9.3%) identify as ethnic minorities and one as unknown (2.3%).
Of these four members of staff, two are women and two are men, with two describing themselves as
Asian and two as Chinese. Three of these staff members are associate professors and one is an
assistant professor.

The School continues to work hard to improve its ethnic representation by encouraging applications
from underrepresented groups and ensuring hiring committees undergo relevant training. There is
evidence of progress. Three of the four minority-ethnic members of staff presently working in the
School joined in the last six years.

Disability
Of 42 staff, 41 (97.7%) said they did not have a disability and one preferred not to say (2.4%). A
recent internal review by UoN in the ‘Support for Disabled Staff Review’ highlighted a lack of
understanding and insufficient training concerning disabilities (visible and invisible). SPIR has
consequently provided all research staff with training on making reasonable adjustments and
disability disclosure. The School treats disabilities on a case-by-case basis and has made the
following four provisions:

   •   Provided timetable adjustments to accommodate staff needs.
   •   Used occupational health to make recommendations and followed them.
   •   Purchased specialist equipment when requested, including voice-to-text software.
   •   Organized talks by Disability Support Services to promote awareness and highlight
       reasonable adjustments for PGR and staff.

Age
The School employs staff from a wide range of age groups as detailed in Table 2.3. SPIR welcomes
applications for jobs, and for promotions, irrespective of ages and will continue to do so. In the last
six years, it has promoted candidates to all levels under the age of 35 and over the age of 56.

                           Table 2.3 Staff overview by age (headcount)

                           26-35     36-45      46-55     56-65      66-75
                           5         19         11        6          2
                           11.6%     44.2%      25.6%     14%        4.7%

SPIR is aware of the significant proportion of staff who may seek retirement or changes to working
conditions in the next decade. These insights inform current and future management of research
activity, including succession planning, both in terms of responsibilities within the School and the
need for ongoing recruitment and flexible working conditions.

Overall improvements
SPIR has sought to investigate, identify, and address, other areas of EDI—with protected
characteristics including age, disability, ethnicity, gender-intersectionality, level, marriage and civil
partnership, pregnancy and maternity, race, religion or belief, sex or sexual orientation—where it can
improve best practices for staff and students. These efforts are detailed Table 2.4.

The School has paid due regard to EDI in the construction of its REF submission. SPIR has analysed
data concerning the distribution of outputs by staff and their relevant characteristics. Attention to
these concerns, and a strong range of work on which to draw, has led to an increase in research
outputs produced by women, which respects the processes set out in the University Code of
Practice.


                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


                              Table 2.4 EDI-focused improvements

      Challenge                       Response
      Lack of discussion, strategy,   Created or enhanced channels (e.g. PRP process) to openly
      accountability                  discuss/support EDI, developed a dialogue around EDI and
                                      research culture (e.g. Away Days/Training).

                                      Ensured school representative and chair on Faculty of Social
                                      Sciences EDI Group.

      Low numbers of women,           Signalled interest in applications from underrepresented
      minority academics within the   groups and highlighted flexible working arrangements in job
      profession                      adverts.

                                      Committed to applying for reconfirmation of Athena Swan
                                      Bronze and planning application for silver award.

      Too few members from            Re-constituted Athena Swan Committee as Equality, Diversity
      underrepresented groups in      and Inclusion Committee to enhance gender equality and
      leadership roles                added work related to other protected characteristics.

                                      Appointed the School’s second woman HoS and increased
                                      leadership by women in major committees.

      Funding                         Prioritized conference attendance or necessary travel for staff
                                      and PGRs with ill-health, disabilities, or caring responsibilities.

                                      Incorporated EDI considerations into funding decisions,
                                      access to internal funds, promotion and reward procedures,
                                      and conference attendance.

      Policies                        Improved/tailored study leave arrangements, allowing staff to
                                      split time across two rather than one semester to help family
                                      commitments.

                                      Supported flexible and/or remote working and regularly
                                      publicised options; adopted by three members of staff (two
                                      women and one man).

                                      Flexibility on timetables for staff and PGRs returning from
                                      periods of leave or ill-health, managing long-term illness, or
                                      with caring responsibilities.

                                      Provision for maternity and paternity leave for all research
                                      staff. Of returned staff, 3 women and 4 men have taken
                                      parental leave since 2014.



2.5 Research students
SPIR has successfully attracted and supported a diverse post-graduate research community. The
School has overseen 84.81 PhD students since 2014, all of whom have been based in at least one
research centre/institute. Only five have withdrawn since joining (6%).

As detailed in Table 2.5, the PhD community (based on awarded degrees per year) reflects
significant levels of diversity in terms of gender and ethnicity. In 2018/19, for example, 55.2% of
research students were women and 38.7% were ethnic minorities, which reflects the School’s
commitment to EDI in the application process.



                                                                                                       Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


                                      Table 2.5. PGR community

                      2013/14      2014/15   2015/16   2016/17   2017/18   2018/19   2019/20
                      Gender
          Female         6           6.5      3.16       7.5       4.5        9        3.6
          Male          4.5           7        8        10.45      3.3       6.8        4
          Other                                                              0.5
                      Ethnicity
          Asian                      3                   1.5       1.3       3.3       1
          Black                                1          2                   1
          Chinese       0.5          0.5       1          1        1         1.5        1
          Mixed         1.5                               1                  0.5        1
          Not Known     0.5                              2.5       1          2         1
          Other          1                     1                              1         2
          White          7           10       8.16      9.95       4.5        7        1.6
                      Disability
          Yes                        1          1       1.45       5.8      15.3       7.6
          No            10.5        12.5      10.16     16.5        2        1


Supervision, training, and support
SPIR seeks to appoint promising PhD students via its admissions procedure, working with the
Admissions Office and PGR admissions tutor to assess the strength and fit of each candidate. The
School provides PGRs with at least two supervisors who monitor performance and regularly report
to the Director of Postgraduate Research. Students meet with their supervisors at least ten times per
year and undergo independent annual reviews until completion.

All PGRs produce training needs assessments, in consultation with their supervisors, and complete
a Professional Development Module in their first year, which concentrates on core skills and
introduces standards and practices in the profession. PGRs are also part of the University’s
Researcher Academy (formerly Graduate School), which runs a range of activities (including the
annual research staff conference and Postgraduate Research Showcase) that encourage
networking and cross-disciplinarity [IS, 3.2,3.3].

All PGRs attend regular colloquium, co-organised by PGRs and the PGR Director, providing a forum
to present/review work and receive/provide feedback. Regular workshops focus on fieldwork and
research ethics. The School also supports a popular PGR annual conference, run by students for
students with staff in attendance, which provides leadership experience and helps to foster a sense
of community, especially within research centres.

SPIR provides an £8k annual budget to support attendance at summer schools, fieldwork, and
conference organisation. A ‘Best Thesis Prize’ is presented at the end of each academic year. In
addition, the Michael Cowan Scholarships, based on a bequest of £50,000, and supplemented by
university funds, fund five £1,000 special achievement awards for current PGR students each year
plus one full and one fees-only PhD scholarship.

Doctoral Training Centre
The School is part of the Midlands Graduate School Doctoral Training Partnership and provides the
core of the ESRC-supported and faculty-based Doctoral Training Centre (DTC), an investment of
£10m over eight years, offering a world-class multidisciplinary environment [IS, 2.1a].

School staff (van der Eijk, Moser) play an important role in the delivery of DTC modules and clinics,
including training in Quantitative and Qualitative Methods and Research Design, Practice and Ethics.
Staff also provide sessions on advanced techniques for the collaborating Doctoral Training Centres
at Warwick and Birmingham. The School’s efforts help to contribute to the education of the next
generation of social scientists.

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



Scholarships, studentships, and bursaries
Many PGRs hold full or partial funding via competitive national and internal schemes. The School
has also benefited from its inclusion in the ‘Midlands Three Cities/Midlands Four Cities' AHRC BGP2
Consortium to fund PhD studentships, accompanied by both a student and cohort development fund,
which all consortium partners match on a one-to-one basis. Since 2014, SPIR has secured funding
for 31 PhD students:

Full funding
    • Six ESRC DTP Midlands Graduate School Studentships (1+3/+3).
    • Three Sir Francis Hill Scholarships.

Fees only
   • One ESRC DTP Midlands Graduate School Studentships (+3).
   • Nine Vice Chancellor Awards (Research Excellence, EU/International).
   • One Francis Hill Scholarship (and stipend).
   • Eleven PGR fee waivers.

These successes reflect a determined effort by the School to attract and develop the next generation
of political scientists.

PhDs awarded
SPIR’s commitment to monitoring and supporting PhD students is evidenced by its growth in
applications and successful completions. The School has achieved 84.81 PhD completions
(headcount based on the supervisor share) since 2014. As detailed in Table 2.6, this represents a
significant increase in comparison to the last REF cycle.

                               Table 2.6 Number of PhDs awarded
                                        Supervision Weight

      REF year 1            2         3        4         5         6         7        Total
      REF      2008-        2009-     2010-    2011-     2012-     N/A       N/A
      2014     09           10        11       12        13
               3            5         7        9.2       14.83                        39.03
      REF      2013-        2014-     2015-    2016-     2017-     2018-     2019-
      2021     14           15        16       17        18        19        20
               10.5         13.5      11.16    17.95     7.8       16.3      7.6      84.81

                  +7.5      +8.5      +4.16    +8.75     -7.03     +16.3     +7.6     +45.78

2.6 People and COVID-19
SPIR’s core policies and procedures regarding people remain in place as their operation shifted
largely online. Doctoral students received zero-fee extensions of up to 6 months and PhD
examinations moved online, supported by the creation of a new online viva chair role, revised
examination guidelines, and technical support [IS, Annex]. In addition, a wide range of EDI training
courses for staff were also available online (from ‘Being Fair’ to ‘Working Inclusively’). This online
shift has helped to mitigate the difficulties posed by the risk of illness, temporary restrictions to
facilities, and the challenges of caring responsibilities. SPIR also implemented contingency plans,
whereby deputies have been instituted for critical research staff and key administrative staff. These
preparations have ensured that all necessary data is protected but accessible to others (or part of
effective cascade policies) in the event of sickness, self-isolation, or unforeseen changes.

2.7 Future development




                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Research Committee will work with the School to build on the considerable efforts already made
to attract and support talented staff and students, especially early career researchers and scholars
from underrepresented groups. Future discussions will focus on:

   •   Improving and supporting research diversity. Giving more attention to EDI and the support of
       unrepresented groups in the process of admitting students, hiring staff, and making funding
       decisions (including anonymization, further training for all panel members, and encouraging
       research/work with an EDI focus). In addition, helping (via extended leave, adjustment
       policies, staffing strategies) staff to achieve their full potential to promote a vibrant and
       diverse academic community.

   •   Encouraging diverse research expertise. Building support for the role of impact work, open
       access/research/data, and inter/trans-disciplinarity in appointment criteria to expand existing
       conceptions of good scholarly work. In addition, providing more training in these areas to
       support inexperienced staff.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Overview
SPIR has improved the coordination and communication of its external income strategy, identifying
more relevant opportunities for staff and supporting their applications, drawing on the wider
infrastructure and facilities of the university—including the Rights Lab, Centre for Advanced Studies,
and Doctoral Training Programmes. Although the School has grown by 8.8 FTE in research staff
numbers, strategic improvements have led to an almost tripling of research income over the last REF
cycle. SPIR has:

   •   Generated c.£4.7 million in income (c.£7.2 million in award value).
   •   Helped over 70% of returned staff to generate research income.
   •   Secured significant funding from UK Research Councils and EU government bodies.

Additional funds have helped to grow SPIR’s budgets, resulting in more support for Centres/Institutes
and the expansion of administrative support, comprising one-full time and two part-time members of
support staff. These funds have also allowed the School to focus more attention on EDI and ethical
issues and the external communication of the School’s research profile.

3.2 Funding and endowments
Since 2014, SPIR has taken significant steps to improve support for staff seeking funding by:

   •   Appointing a Grants Coordinator, who supports acquisition and management processes, and
       oversees the embedding of grant targets into Personal Research Plans.
   •   Identifying and communicating grant opportunities more frequently, targeting specific staff.
   •   Providing peer review of all grant applications and additional resources to assist applications.
   •   Instituting workload relief to allow for the completion of some large grant applications.

To support unrepresented groups and early career researchers, the Research Committee has used
Personal Research Plans to identify, encourage, and support staff with limited experience of the
grant submission process. Support typically came in the form of tailored guidance or access to
internal funding—namely, seed corn/pilot study funding to help prepare for larger bids. Support for
conference attendance and roundtables (McCabe), archival research (Burke), and foreign travel
(Renz) all facilitated later grant successes.

SPIR’s revised research strategy has involved much closer cooperation with the University’s Centre
for Advanced Studies, which provided expertise in developing grant applications, mentoring
academics in project planning, and a peer-review mentoring scheme for funding applications. The
Grant Coordinator and the Centre for Advanced Studies have worked hard to enhance awareness



                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
of funding opportunities and improve the timeliness and quality of feedback on bids prior to
submission.

These new procedures have been positively received by staff and have been effective. As detailed
in Table 3.1, the School generated c.£4.7 million in income, which contrasts with c.£1.3 million for
REF 2014 (research income & research income-in-kind), which exceeds any differences based on
staff increases.

                                             Table 3.1 Research Income (£000s)
                                            Research Income for UoA by Sponsor

                                                                                Income in Year to:                          Total      %

  Sponsor                                                  31/07/14 31/07/15 31/07/16 31/07/17 31/07/18 31/07/19 31/07/20      201401 to
                                                                                                                             current period
                                                            2013     2014     2015     2016     2017     2018     2019
                                                                                                                                202013
                                                            Year     Year     Year     Year     Year     Year     Year
REF4b - External Research Income

BIS Research Councils, The Royal Society, British Academy & RSE
                                                             115.4   133.2    307.0    652.0    556.0    285.9    202.3     2,251.8   48.3%
UK-based charities (0pen competitive process)                 95.5   115.1     57.9     29.4     58.9    22.2      56.4      435.4     9.3%
UK-based charities (other)                                      -      -         -        -        -       -        -           -      0.0%
UK cent govtbodies/local auth, health & hosp authorities      15.6    15.8      7.3      1.5      0.1     9.4      9.0        58.8     1.3%
UK cent govtbodies/local auth, health & hosp authorities        -    116.1      0.0     14.2     19.2     0.0       -        149.5     3.2%
UK industry, commerce & public corporations                     -      -         -        -       4.7     3.3     (0.0)        8.0     0.2%
Other sources                                                   -      -        2.7      0.0       -       -        -          2.7     0.1%
EU govt bodies                                               240.1   122.1    151.8    107.2     13.1    220.1    129.6      984.0    21.1%
EU-based charities (open competitive process)                   -      -         -        -        -       -        -           -      0.0%
EU industry, commerce & public corporations                     -      -         -        -        -       -        -           -      0.0%
EU other                                                        -      -         -        -        -       -        -           -      0.0%
Non-EU-based charities (open competitive process)              8.5    15.9     20.0     14.8     25.0    31.8       -        116.0     2.5%
Non-EU industry, commerce & public corporations                 -      -         -        -        -       -       33.1       33.1     0.7%
Non-EU other                                                  95.4    68.8     48.5     69.7    117.5    96.8     122.3      619.0    13.3%

Total per Sponsor Group                                     570.7    587.0    595.1    888.7    794.6    669.6    552.7     4,658.4 100.0%




Research Councils and the British Academy represent the largest funders for SPIR’s research. SPIR
has nevertheless worked hard to support staff seeking funding from other sources. Research awards
exceeding £100,000, for example, have come from the European Commission (Heywood) and from
the Templeton Religion Trust (Bales).

Success has been spread across SPIR. Most returned staff, and c.90% of women staff, have helped
to generate research income. In addition, three projects with an award value over £100,000 were
won by women (Eadie, Neundorf, McCabe), exceeding expectations based on career stage and
gender ratios within the School.

SPIR’s significant increase in grant capture has allowed staff the time and resources to produce
word-leading research and impact work that would otherwise have been impossible. Large research
projects included work on: reducing slavery (Bales); secret intelligence (Cormac); poverty alleviation
(Eadie); China’s overseas NGO Law (Fulda); sovereign default (Gill); combating corruption
(Heywood); grassroots activism (Humphrey); forced marriage (McCabe); civil service reform (Meyer-
Sahling); and authoritarian regimes (Neundorf). Five of the above cases have been used to support
long-listed impact cases (Bales, Cormac, Gill, Heywood, Meyer-Sahling).

Postdoctoral awards
SPIR, aided by the Centre for Advanced Studies, supports PhD students and external candidates
applying for post-doctoral grants/fellowships by offering guidance on the process, feedback on
applications, and help with finances. Since 2014, SPIR has secured external and internal funding
[IS, 4.1b] for 8 post-doctoral researchers:

     •    Two Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships.
     •    Two Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowships.
     •    One British Academy Post-Doctoral Fellowship.

                                                                                                                                      Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Three Nottingham Research Fellowships.

Success in these competitive schemes reflects SPIR’s ability to attract and support talented
researchers’ efforts to secure funding.

Internal funding
Staff receive a personal research budget of £600 per annum but can also bid to the Research
Committee, which has an annual budget of ~£30,000. The Research Committee prioritises
applications from early career researchers and underrepresented groups, especially for the
organisation of workshops/conferences in Nottingham. Fixed term staff, postdoctoral fellows and
research associates are also eligible for funding from Research Committee.

The Research Committee and the Impact Coordinator also used the Personal Research Plan
process to notify and update more staff of relevant internal support from the university to pump prime
research activity and impact work. These efforts were evidenced by the School’s many successes
in securing ESRC Impact Acceleration Awards (Fielding, Heywood, Kettle, Meyer-Sahling) and
Research Priority Areas awards (Lee, Janz, Toubeau, Mumford, Eadie) UoN [IS, 4.1a].

Internal funding for impact work has enabled ad-hoc data gathering, testimonial collection, national
and international travel, and time for case study revisions. Funding also supported crucial training,
networking, and knowledge exchange opportunities to enhance wider impact. In addition, the
creation of an Impact Officer in conjunction with the Centre for Advanced Studies has helped staff in
the drafting of their work and in data collection.

SPIR has also benefited from its work with the Rights Lab. From 1 October 2017 to 31 July 2020,
the Rights Lab invested approximately £810,872 in SPIR—comprising teaching cover and salary
contributions, alongside costs associated with its research development team that support grant
applications. It has also provided support for members of staff (Bales, Landman, McCabe, Mumford,
and Janz) to submit grant applications. These have led to major awards from the AHRC, ESRC, and
Templeton Fund, which have bolstered the School’s impact and research efforts. This Beacon also
works closely with PGRs, funding two PhDs for three-years that include international fees and
stipend payments and hiring 10 additional Research Associate/Fellows.

Bequests
The Asia Research Institute benefits from a generous bequest from the late Sir Stanley and Lady
Nancy Tomlinson. This bequest facilitates: research support; organising of events; funding field trips
for PGRs and post-doctoral fellows; and funding for PhD studentships. It also awards £4,000 every
year to postgraduate researchers to assist with their research and learning.

3.3 Investment in infrastructure and facilities
Since 2014, UoN has invested £188,000 in research infrastructure, equipment, and environment
(including repairs and maintenance) for SPIR. Staff and PGRs are all provided with up-to-date
computers and associated hardware and software, such as Stata and Qualtrics. All research staff
have their own office, and every PGR/postdoc is provided with a study space, computer, unlimited
photocopying, and inter-library loan allowance. There is also a common room available to staff and
PGRs to foster collegiality and community.

Staff and PGRs benefit from a wider physical and online research infrastructure alongside access to
specialist digital research expertise [IS, 4.1d]. Staff and PGR can access books, journals, and
datasets, as well as archives and special collections, from five libraries on campus in person or
online. Online services, typically via Moodle, provide training and materials for staff and early career
researchers, ranging from EDI short courses to Data Management. The Research Information
System gives the ability to manage research grants, costings and contracts in an efficient and timely
manner, and to ensure ‘Open’ access/data requirements.

SPIR enjoys access to a Press/TV room, which allows staff to work with local, national, and
international news services (see below, 4.3). The School has invested in a Social Media officer

                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(0.5FTE), who supports the School’s strong news, social media and blog presence, and actively
seeks to promote its research to the widest audience. Blogs such as Asia Dialogue and Taiwan
Insight achieved thousands of views and helped to provide relevant training to PGRs.

The research pages, specifically the projects and impact pages, and the ‘research news’ feed was
completely revised in 2019/2020 in collaboration with members of the Faculty’s marketing team.
Many people follow the School’s accounts on Twitter (7,581), Facebook (2,199), and Instagram
(958). The ARI also has four separate Twitter accounts with a large, combined Twitter following
(18,363). This social media presence helps to disseminate and amplify the important work and
impact produced in the School.

3.4 Income, infrastructure, facilities and COVID-19
SPIR has reacted to the temporary closure of buildings by efficiently shifting to online working
practices enabled by UoN’s impressive online infrastructure. SPIR has continued to work with the
Centre for Advanced Studies to return feedback and submit bids for external funding throughout
lockdown. Nine new bids were submitted by research staff following the introduction of COVID-19
restrictions. In the longer-term, the School plans to replace all research staff desktops with laptops
to help conduct research outside of the office and to ensure that work can continue online in adverse
conditions.

3.5 Future development
Working with the School, the Research Committee will continue to pursue increases in external
income and will also pursue two new proposals:

   •   Increasing and diversifying future income: Refining existing review/feedback processes to
       improve the size and quality of grant applications, growing applications from
       underrepresented groups, and seeking income from more diverse sources, including
       international organisations.

   •   Expanding digital research: Drawing on the expertise of the university digital research team,
       benefiting from a designated contact for Social Sciences, to support research, impact, and
       funding work. Recent examples of cooperation include the use of virtual reality, text analysis,
       and machine learning to study political phenomenon.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4. 1 Overview
The Research Committee has used its collective and coordinated research mechanisms to
encourage and support staff to build collaborations and networks with diverse communities across
the United Kingdom and around the world, including the Asia-Pacific, Europe, North and South
America. These networks range from staff taking visiting positions in other institutions to the
appointment of Honorary Professors in SPIR. These efforts helped SPIR to increase the number of
publications co-authored with institutions in other countries/regions by 50% since 2014 (SciVal).
Furthermore, SPIR has built rewarding relationships with key research beneficiaries and
audiences—ranging from European governments to antislavery groups–chiefly via its impact work
and the creation of a Visiting Fellows Scheme.

SPIR has also enthusiastically contributed to the development of the discipline and to wider society
by:

   •   Editing/co-editing six journals and seven book series.
   •   Serving on 28 editorial boards.
   •   Appointing Honorary Professors, including two women and ethnic minorities.
   •   Creating television and radio programmes and providing General Election coverage.
   •   Publishing in leading newspapers and periodicals.



                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The quality of the School’s contributions to the discipline are evidenced by awards and prizes for its
research and impact. These include: the Gordon Smith and Vincent Wright Memorial Prize and
AECPA Best Article Award (Casal Bértoa); Organizational Research Methods Best Paper Award
(Gill); Anniversary Prize for Research Applied to Modern Slavery and Companion of the Most Loyal
Order of St Michael and St George New Year’s Honours List 2017 (Bales).

4.2 Collaborations, networks, and partnerships
Staff in SPIR have secured honours, fellowships, and visiting professorships around the world and
across the country to disseminate their research and to establish world-class research agendas, as
detailed in Table 4.1. These connections have enriched the quality of outputs and impact, as well as
the research environment more broadly, by disseminating insights from other scholars and experts.

                        Table 4.1 Global and national academic networks

       Region           Examples
       Asia-Pacific     University of Auckland; Australian National University; Dhaka University
                        East Asia Institute, National Singapore University; Jawaharlal Nehru
                        University; National Taiwan University; University of the Philippines;
                        University of Pune; Waseda University; Tribhuvan University.

       Europe           APELLA Institute for Policy Analysis and Dialogue (Yerevan, Armenia);
                        University of Bremen; CESPRA, EHESS, Paris; European University
                        institute; Hanse-Wissenschaftskolleg, University of Gothenburg; Centre for
                        Advanced Study, Oslo; Pompeu Fabra University, Spain; Sciences Po;
                        University of Vienna; Berlin Social Science Centre.

       North America    Belfer Center for Science and International, Harvard University; University of
                        California, Berkeley; University of Chicago; Johns Hopkins University;
                        MacMillan Center, Yale University; Simon Fraser University; Stanford and the
                        World Bank.

       South America    Federal University of Recife; Getúlio Vargas Foundation, Brazil.

       United Kingdom   University of Warwick; Bennett Institute for Public Policy, University of
                        Cambridge; Churchill College, University of Cambridge; Institute of Economic
                        and Social Research, University of Essex; University College London.

                        Partnership with the British Library and Inclusion in M3C/M4C, AHRC BGP2
                        Consortium.


Internationalisation
SPIR has drawn on UoN’s commitment to internationalisation for staff and students [IS, 2.1d, 3.3,
4.1c. 4.2] to ensure regular exchanges and secondments to campuses on Malaysia and China.
There has also been joint-PhD supervision between the campuses. SPIR has further promoted
internationalisation by providing funding or workload relief for:

   •    Membership of international associations, boards, or committees.
   •    Co- or multi-authored international projects.
   •    Keynote speeches, invited talks, and funded collaborations based abroad.
   •    PhD examinations outside the UK.
   •    Organization of local conferences/workshops involving non-UK participants.

As part of its commitment to EDI, SPIR has prioritised support for early career researchers and
unrepresented groups to attend international events.

Honorary and visiting positions
SPIR appoints Honorary Professors to share their expertise with the School. It encourages
applications from ethnic minorities and women, recently awarding an Honorary Professorship to

                                                                                                   Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Patel (Royal Institute of International Affairs) and Hoti (Higher Education Commission of Pakistan).
Other examples include:

   •   Politics: Browne (Minister of State); Cantle (Chief Executive of Nottingham City Council);
       Carmichael (MP); Housden (Permanent Secretary of the Scottish Government); Wainwright
       (Europol); Young (Baroness and UoN Chancellor).

   •   Media: Cockerell (Broadcaster and journalist); D'Arcy (BBC News) Hess (BBC); Whitehead
       (BBC World Service).

   •   Military: Cross (British army); Harwood (Royal Air Force).

   •   NGOs: Bonwitt (OECD), Hilary (War on Want); Hutchings (Oxford Analytica and Daily
       Telegraph); Stears (New Economics Foundation).

Honorary Professors contribute to SPIR’s research culture by presenting research, attending
presentations, offering first-hand expertise on relevant subjects, providing links to the outside world,
and stimulating collaborations with external stakeholders.

4.3 Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries, or audiences
External audiences have validated the significance of SPIR’s wide-ranging impact work as evidenced
by the four submitted Impact Case Studies and their supporting testimonials, which includes former
UK Prime Minister Theresa May (Bales and Landman). The School’s research has been used to
improve the lives of many different audiences, principally through its impact work, as detailed above
in section 1, Table 1.3.

Centres/institutes and Beacons have supported staff in developing relationships with research
users/beneficiaries directly by creating networks and indirectly via feedback on research. These
collaborations have also informed research, often via previously unavailable data/insights, bringing
fresh insights and ways of thinking that can be maintained by centres/institutes.

4.4 Media presence
SPIR benefits from a strong media presence. Staff have been directly involved in creating and
presenting television programmes (Cormac: Spying on the Royals, The King who Fooled Hitler, and
The Queen and the Coup, all Channel 4) and radio shows (Fielding: Period Drama Politics, Archive
on 4; and Cormac: MI6's Secret Slush Fund, BBC Radio 4). Staff have also provided coverage of
the Indian (Adeney, Spary), UK (Milazzo), and US (Landman) General/National elections for ABC
(Australia), BBC radio, France 24, and WION news.

Staff have written articles for leading periodicals, including Foreign Affairs (Gill), Foreign Policy
(Fulda), The Guardian (Milazzo), The Nation (Drochon), New Statesmen (Drochon), The Spectator
(Fielding), and the Washington Post (Janz). PGRs have also written for smaller outlets, including
Open Democracy, Lancashire Evening Post and Nottingham Post. These examples show staff
shaping the content of popular outlets to inform a national and global audience.

SPIR has also made many contributions to national and international outlets. Quotes or interviews
have appeared in the following:

   •   Television and radio: BBC Breakfast; BBC World Service, BBC Radio 5Live; BBC East
       Midlands; Channel 4; British Forces Broadcasting Service; Bloomberg; CNN; CNBC; BBC
       News 24, BBC World TV, BBC Two; France24; KPFA Radio in California, BBC Radio 4; ABC
       (NewsRadio) [Australia]; The Press Association; Sky News Arabia; Voice of America.

   •   Print and online media: Avvenire (Italy); BBC History Magazine; Buzzfeed; Christian Science
       Monitor; The Conversation; El Tiempo (Colombia); Lâ Opinion (France); La Libre (Belgium);
       the I; Independent on Sunday; Nottingham Post; The Majalla; Newsweek Europe; South
       China Morning Post; VG (Norway); Wired.

                                                                                               Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


SPIR has showcased its research to millions of viewers, listeners, and readers, increasing
awareness of its research and impact, helping to shape public debate.

4.5 Influencing and supporting the discipline
SPIR has influenced and supported the discipline in four main areas: journal and book editorships;
contributions to professional associations and learned societies; vivas; and membership of grant and
fellowship awarding bodies.

Journal and book editorships
SPIR makes a major contribution to the review and publication of research across the discipline.
Staff oversaw the editorship of the flagship journal of the Political Studies Association, Political
Studies, and the Political Studies Review, between 2011-2018. More than twenty members of staff
were involved in running these journals. Since arriving in Nottingham in 2011, the journal saw a
substantial increase in submissions (close to 400 per annum) and established itself as an
international journal, with a minority of submissions from UK authors. By 2017, Political Studies was
the fifth most-widely cited journal in the field in Europe (Google metrics).

Members of SPIR have also served as Editors or Associate Editors at: Government and Opposition,
Journal of Political Ideologies, Global Labour Journal, and Political Science Research and Methods.
In addition, colleagues have served on 28 editorial boards. These include: British Journal of Political
Science; China Quarterly; Chinese Affaires; CIVIS (Montenegrin Journal of Political Science);
Journal of Commonwealth and Comparative Politics: Comparative Politics; Contemporary Acta
Politica; East European Politics; East European Quarterly; Electoral Politics; Electoral Studies;
Ethnopolitics; European Journal of Government and Economics; Global Labour Journal; Intelligence
and National Security; Pacific Affairs; Parameters, Political Studies; Politics and Governance;
Political Science Research and Methods; Politologia; Regional and Federal Studies; Pakistan
Perspectives; Regional and Federal Studies; Swiss Political Science Review; Political Studies; and
US Army War College Quarterly.

Staff have taken responsibility of Book Series Editorship at: Edinburgh University Press (Cormac); I.
B. Tauris (Mumford); Manchester University Press (Pierson); Palgrave Macmillan (Adeney,
Heywood); Routledge (Casal Bértoa); Rowman & Littlefield (Burns, Holland); and Springer (van der
Eijk). Two of these series’ editors (Cormac, Mumford) are actively exploring open access options
and have approved the publication of one book in this format.

Contributions to professional associations and learned societies
Members of SPIR have taken governance positions in: Britain and Ireland Association for Political
Thought; CES Research Network; European Consortium of Political Research; European
Association of Taiwan Studies; European Political Science Association; Interdisciplinary Corruption
Research Network; International Sociological Association; Irish Studies Committee; Government
and Opposition Programme of Research Committee 44; Political Studies Association; and Research
Centre for the Study of Parties and Democracy. In addition, staff have been active in open science
initiatives. These examples highlight how members of the School play a wide-ranging role in the
management of the discipline and help shape its future.

Vivas
The School has also encouraged staff to perform as external examiners for PhD students at the
following universities: Amsterdam; Birmingham; Bratislava; Central Lancashire; Edinburgh;
European University Institute; Florence; Glasgow; King’s College London; Leeds; Leicester; London
School of Economics; Maastricht; Milano; Oriel College, Oxford; Salford; Warwick; University
College, Cork; and York. In this way, SPIR supports and shapes the future of the discipline.

Membership of grant and fellowship awarding bodies
SPIR has members of staff that have served on the ESRC council (Silverman) and peer review
college (Heywood) as well as the EU commission as an ERC reviewer (Heywood). Staff have also
served as grant referees for major funding bodies in the UK alongside Austria, Belgium, Czech

                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Republic, Estonia, Germany, Hong Kong, Luxembourg, Norway, Poland, Slovakia, Spain,
Switzerland, and the US. Staff involvement has helped to shape the policies framing and driving the
future of the discipline.

4.6 Collaboration, contribution, and COVID-19
The School’s shift to online working has allowed it to maintain and establish rewarding collaborations
and valuable networks. Coaker (former MP, now Lord) and Atha (RAF), for example, joined SPIR as
Honorary Professors and the School has committed to hosting people as ‘virtual visitors’ whenever
feasible. SPIR has also continued to make major contributions to international media, journal and
book editorships, professional associations and learned societies, vivas, as well as grant and
fellowship awarding bodies since lockdown. Staff have edited new releases in ongoing book series
(Cormac) and become referees for the European Research Council Consolidator Grant 2020 (Burns)
and Marie Curie Fellowships (Landman).

4.7 Future development
The Research Committee will work with the School to enhance its collaborations and contributions
to the research base, economy, and society by focusing on two new objectives:

   •   Disseminating underrepresented research: Encouraging and supporting more members of
       staff, especially from underrepresented groups, to participate in print, digital and online media
       to share their insights and data with a wider global audience, particularly in terms of impact
       work.

   •   Diversifying expertise: Continuing to attract honorary visitors and professors from
       underrepresented groups and improving support for staff from these same groups seeking
       positions on grant and fellowship awarding bodies.

SPIR’s efforts in these areas reflect a strategic vision focused on making global and diverse
contributions to the discipline of politics and international relations and to wider society.




                                                                                               Page 23
