Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Glasgow (UofG)

 Unit of Assessment: 18 Law

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview

 Law has been studied at Glasgow since the University’s foundation in 1451. Past scholars,
 including Viscount Stair, Adam Smith and Madge Easton Anderson (the first female solicitor in the
 UK), contribute to our inspirational history. Today, the Law School is a vibrant international
 community that prides itself in championing equality and diversity (section 2.4). Meeting our
 strategic aim to be a leading international Law School, we have grown considerably since
 REF2014, from 38.0 to 58.5 Category A FTE (62 individuals). We have category A staff of 20
 different nationalities; 49% are from outside the UK, compared to 40% submitted to REF2014. We
 have recruited outstanding Early Career Researchers (ECRs), who account for 32% of our
 category A staff, compared to 14% in REF2014.

 Our mission is to produce innovative world leading research with significant impact locally,
 nationally and internationally. We achieve this by attracting outstanding researchers and providing
 a supportive environment where they can flourish. Retention is as important to us as recruitment.
 We want our growth to be sustainable and our outstanding early career colleagues to develop into
 our future research leaders. Our supportive environment is evidenced by our high retention rate:
 our output pool includes only three outputs from authors who were not in post on the census date
 (one who moved abroad for family reasons and one on secondment, who will return in 2024).

 Our achievements over the REF period are detailed in the following sections. In brief, we have:

 •   Published 1,146 outputs, including 24 research-based monographs with academic publishers
 •   Achieved total research income (measured by spend reported to HESA) of £4,705,394
     and new awards worth £6,035,790, which has supported cutting-edge research and important
     impact (section 3.1)
 •   More than tripled the number of doctoral degrees awarded (79.97 measured by supervisor
     load, compared to 24 in REF2014) (section 2.3)
 •   Attracted excellent post-doctoral scholars, supported by prestigious external fellowships
     (section 2.2.1)

 1.2 Research scope and structure

 Our research addresses local, national and global challenges, evidenced by the diversity of our
 impact case studies and outputs. It covers a wide range of disciplinary/inter-disciplinary areas and
 traditions (quantitative and qualitative socio-legal work, alongside doctrinal, theoretical and
 historical approaches); all are supported and valued. The Unit has five research groups, bringing
 together researchers where there is critical mass of research strength (section 1.3.1), but also
 supports smaller areas of activity and individual scholarly work.

 Research activity is overseen by the Research Committee, comprising the Head of School,
 Research Director, REF Champions, research group leads, Unit Impact Officer and two other
 members (one an ECR, one not affiliated with a research group, to ensure diverse input into
 research policy).

 1.3 Strategic aims for research and impact

 Following REF2014, we recognised that the Unit would benefit from a fresh strategic review (‘the
 Review’). This occurred in 2015, with input from a REF2014 panel member and impact assessor.
 It made 61 recommendations, grouped around:


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •      Supporting research excellence by creating research groups
 •      Developing a research culture that attracts and retains excellent researchers
 •      Building and strengthening collaborative relationships and networks
 •      Establishing a more strategic approach to impact
 •      Developing the PGR community
 •      Diversifying research income

 All have been implemented; each is discussed below.

 1.3.1 Creating research groups

 Until the Review, research was organised around six clusters. They have been replaced by
 research groups: cohesive areas of research strength. Rather than simply identifying individuals
 working in similar subject areas, we created groupings with the scale to make them sustainable.

 Alongside the existing CREATe Centre for Copyright and the Creative Economy, three new groups
 were established in 2015 (Legal Theory; International Law, Conflict and Security; Law Reform and
 Public Policy). It was not envisaged the list would be closed and the Corporate and Financial Law
 group launched in 2019. While the Unit now has only one fewer research group than it did research
 clusters before the Review, the increase in Unit size means these groups have a critical mass and
 shared identity which some clusters lacked. Each group is led by a senior colleague and supported
 by a Research and Teaching Associate (RTA), a role combining a 50% employment contract with
 a fees-paid PhD (up to five years).

 The groups are flexible (colleagues can participate in as many as they want) and inter-connected
 (research projects may involve members of multiple groups). Group affiliation is entirely optional.
 Some colleagues prefer to work as lone scholars and have made valuable contributions by e.g.,
 publishing monographs. All staff, whether affiliated with a group or not, benefit from a wide range
 of research support (section 2.2) and are welcome to participate in group events. There is no set
 model for groups, but all meet to explore research ideas, organise collaborative events and offer
 peer-review feedback. They have been particularly successful in facilitating collaboration between
 colleagues who had not previously worked together (e.g., Geiss/Jokubauskaite/Olcay AHRC
 award; Chadwick/Tams/Rasulov ESRC IAA award; Chadwick/Solana UKRI GCRF award).

 The achievements of each group are detailed later. Here, we give a brief synopsis of their focus
 and accomplishments.

 (a) Legal Theory (9 category A staff)
 The University of Glasgow has been a world leading centre for legal theory since the Scottish
 Enlightenment and the work of Adam Smith and John Millar. The Glasgow Legal Theory group
 continues this tradition. It is one of the largest academic units in Europe dedicated to research in
 legal theory and has made ground-breaking contributions to understanding contemporary law and
 government. It hosts the annual Adam Smith Lecture in Jurisprudence, which has been delivered
 by world leading philosophers such as Desan (Harvard) and Streek (Cologne). The group has
 secured new awards with value to the University of Glasgow of £1,537,679, including major ERC
 and Leverhulme awards. It has made a significant contribution to our output portfolio – six
 monographs with world-leading publishers.

 (b) Law Reform and Public Policy (18 category A staff)
 This group’s defining feature is its contribution to policy and law reform – it has become a go-to
 research evidence hub for policy makers. It focuses on civic responsibility (local to Glasgow and
 more widely) and social justice, and has partnered with a range of research users including
 Amnesty International, Citizens Advice Scotland, Human Rights Commission Scotland, Humanist
 Society and Scottish Land Commission. A mark of its success is that three of our five impact case
 studies stem from the group (Chalmers/Leverick, Gill, Murdoch). The group has secured new
 awards with value to the University of Glasgow of £1,859,754, including major AHRC, ESRC and
 Scottish Government awards.

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (c) CREATe (the UK Copyright and Creative Economy Centre) (7 category A staff within the Unit,
 as well as staff from the College of Arts)
 CREATe was established in 2012 as the inter-disciplinary Centre for Copyright and the Creative
 Economy. From 2012-2018, CREATe was funded with £5m from the AHRC/EPSRC/ESRC. A key
 achievement is to have sustained its viability as a world-leading research centre after 2018. It has
 secured new awards with a value to the University of Glasgow of £1,870,427, including AHRC,
 EPSRC and European Commission awards. It has supplied one of our impact case studies and
 will form part of the University of Glasgow’s £112 million Advanced Research Centre (section 3.3).

 (d) Glasgow Centre for International Law and Security (GCILS) (11 category A staff)
 The GCILS is a world-leading hub that addresses major international security challenges,
 including drone warfare, counterterrorism, cyber-security and UN peacekeeping. It has supplied
 one of the Unit’s impact case studies (Geiss) and secured new awards with a value to the
 University of Glasgow of £495,060, including from the AHRC and European Commission. It leads
 a €4.32 million collaborative Erasmus Mundus programme on global security, peace and
 development, informed by the Centre’s research. Group members advise international
 organisations, governments and NGOs (e.g., UN, NATO, International Committee of the Red
 Cross); Melzer is United Nations Special Rapporteur on Torture/Inhuman or Degrading Treatment.

 (e) Corporate and Financial Law (8 category A staff)
 This is the newest research group, launched in 2019 to reflect increasing research strength in
 corporate governance, corporate social responsibility and financial regulation. Its work is at an
 early stage, but it has ambitious plans and has formed inter-disciplinary collaborations within and
 outside the University of Glasgow with a view to making large-scale funding applications. The
 group’s main research income success to date has come from the UKRI Global Challenges
 Research Fund (Solana/Chadwick, with Universidad de los Andes, Colombia).

 1.3.2 Developing a supportive research culture

 We aim to make our Unit a fantastic place to work, attracting and retaining outstanding
 researchers. Our approach to supporting staff is outlined in section 2.2; measures introduced
 following the Review include:

 •   Research mentoring (section 2.2.3)
 •   A Work in Progress series where Unit members present early-stage work for feedback (section
     2.2.1)
 •   Peer review of outputs that offers specialist and generalist feedback on work in progress
     (section 2.2.1)
 •   Improved peer review of funding applications (section 3.2.3)
 •   Investment in academic and research support posts (section 2.1)

 1.3.3 Building collaborative relationships and networks

 We have supported colleagues in building collaborative relationships outside the University of
 Glasgow – using internal, institutional and external resources. Section 4.1 outlines the support
 provided, evidences the number and diversity of these relationships and highlights key outcomes.

 1.3.4 Establishing a more strategic approach to impact

 Following the Review, the Unit implemented a new impact strategy with two components:

 (a) Embedding an impact culture

 We had a positive impact profile in REF2014 (60% 4*; 40% 3*), but wanted to build on this,
 embedding impact as a central part of our mission, valued equally to outputs. Aside from the
 measures detailed below, some of the steps we took included:

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   Encouraging and supporting all staff to build and develop an impact profile where appropriate
     for their research
 •   Valuing impact equally to outputs in performance and development review/promotion
 •   Using the Unit’s research budget for buyout to engage in impact activity and taking advantage
     of institutional resources (section 2.2.7)
 •   Facilitating pathways to impact through secondments/partnerships (section 2.2.7)

 (b) Improving support measures

 We introduced support to help colleagues (i) identify the impact potential of their research
 (especially where not immediately obvious) and (ii) develop that potential in full, to the benefit of
 society. No-one is forced to develop an impact profile, but we encourage colleagues to think
 creatively about impact. We make visible many diverse examples, including historical and
 theoretical (e.g., public engagement work stemming from historical research into the UK’s first
 female lawyer) (section 4.3) and support impact of many different types and scales (section 2.2.7).
 For evidence of success, see sections 4.2-4.4.

 1.3.5 Developing the PGR community

 Several PGR initiatives resulted from the Review, including targeted investments in GTA-type
 posts, securing external studentships and embedding research students in the research groups
 (section 2.3). This helped us increase the number of PGR degrees awarded since REF2014 from
 24 to 79.97 (measured by supervisor load).

 1.3.6 Diversifying research income

 At the start of the REF period, research income was healthy, but reliant on the RCUK-funded
 CREATe centre. As well as sustainability for CREATe, a priority was funding base diversification.
 Both aims have been achieved: CREATe secured substantial new awards and other Unit
 members obtained funding from a wide range of bodies (sections 3.1-3.2).

 1.4 Research integrity and open access

 1.4.1 Research integrity

 The University of Glasgow is committed to providing an environment that ensures research is
 conducted to the highest quality standards. Its policies for supporting research integrity have been
 recognised externally, by e.g., the Royal Society and Universities UK, and have featured as a UK
 Research Integrity Office case study.

 In the Unit, we have a Research Integrity Advisor and mandatory integrity training for all incoming
 PGR students/staff, including online modules and webinars (to accommodate part-time students).
 Allegations of research misconduct are taken seriously and dealt with under the University’s Code
 of Policy and Procedures for Investigating Allegations of Misconduct in Research. The Research
 Integrity Advisor provides informal advice to anyone unsure about a research conduct issue who
 is considering making an allegation.

 All research by staff/doctoral students involving human participants, material or data must be
 approved by the College Ethics Committee. Support is available from a School Ethics Officer, who
 provides briefings and advice for staff/students, chairs the School’s Ethics Committee and sits on
 the College Committee. Ethics applications are scrutinised by two reviewers – one within the Unit
 and one from outside.




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.4.2 Open research environment

 It is extremely straightforward for staff to comply with open access (OA) expectations: our library
 is resourced to manage OA requirements based on a simple email from authors. The overall
 proportion of our outputs that are OA has increased since 2014 from 17.9% to 54.2%; for journal
 articles it has increased from 27.7% to 93%.

 1.5 Strategic priorities for 2021-2027

 1.5.1 Review the research group structure

 Our strategic re-organisation around research groups has proved successful but will be reviewed
 to ensure it still provides the optimal way of organising research and whether the current groups
 best represent our strengths.

 1.5.2 Exploit opportunities for inter-disciplinary/challenge-led funding

 In a funding landscape that is increasingly challenge-led, we know that maintaining success will
 require capacity to respond quickly to opportunities and contribute to inter-disciplinary projects.
 We will do this by developing research Spearheads – inter-disciplinary groups led by Unit
 members, encompassing expertise from throughout the University. Four areas have been
 identified: Constitutions and Markets; Water as a Resource; Global Security; Culture and Creative
 Economies. Scoping work has begun in bringing these together, supported by seedcorn funding.

 1.5.3 Develop the post-doctoral/visiting researcher community

 We have attracted world-leading post-doctoral researchers, as independent researchers and as
 researchers attached to funded projects. We will build on this by exploiting funding opportunities
 to grow the community further. We will continue to utilise the Glasgow Law Fellowship (section
 3.4) to attract excellent Visiting Fellows to the Unit, especially those with an inter-disciplinary
 research agenda.

 1.5.4 Explore opportunities for commercialisation

 The Unit has achieved impact at local, national and international level. It will continue to support
 researchers in maximising impact, but will also explore opportunities for research
 commercialisation, supported by funding from the £1.15 million ESRC Impact Acceleration
 Account, £1.05 million University of Glasgow Knowledge Exchange Fund and College of Social
 Science’s participation in the £5M HEFCE supported ASPECT programme, which is creating new,
 bespoke commercialisation processes for social science.

 2. People

 At the end of REF2014, our category A FTE was 38.0; this has increased to 58.5 (headcount 62).
 Of these, 48% are grade 7/8 (lecturer), 11% grade 9 (senior lecturer) and 40% grade 10
 (professor); 39% are female; 5% have declared as BAME; and 2% have declared a disability. We
 have become more international: 49% of our category A staff are from outside the UK (19 EU, 11
 from the rest of the world), compared to 40% of those submitted to REF2014. We have category
 A staff of 20 nationalities, which has enriched our research environment and facilitated
 international collaborative relationships (section 4.1). We discuss equality issues further in section
 2.4.




                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.1 Staffing strategy

 2.2.1 Investment in future research leaders

 Our strategy has been to invest in outstanding colleagues in areas of research strength. We
 focused recruitment as far as possible on strengthening the research groups, with key R&T
 appointments in all. With sustainability and succession planning in mind, expansion has been
 primarily driven by recruiting early career colleagues. Given our excellent record of staff retention,
 we expect these will be our future research leaders.

 We have recruited exceptional post-doctoral researchers. Aside from those supported by external
 funding (section 3.2.5), we attracted talented post-docs via the University of Glasgow’s Lord Kelvin
 Adam Smith (LKAS) Research Fellowship Scheme, which provides five years of funding with a
 pathway to a permanent post. Two LKAS researchers joined over the REF period – both are now
 lecturers within the Unit.

 We aim to minimise the use of fixed-term contracts and transitioned four colleagues from fixed
 term to permanent posts over the REF cycle. Three included in the submission remain on fixed-
 term contracts – two on a five-year contract and one on a four-year contract.

 2.1.2 Investment in research support posts

 The Unit teaches a wide range of compulsory professional subjects to be recognised as an
 accredited LLB provider by the Law Society of Scotland. The Review observed that this led to
 teaching loads that were not conducive to research excellence. Aside from the expansion in R&T
 posts, we addressed this by:

 (a) Investing in five new Research and Teaching Associate (RTA) posts – one for each research
 group (section 1.3.1). The nature of the support varies, but includes teaching, research assistance,
 event organisation and social media support.

 (b) Recruiting to teaching and scholarship lectureships in high teaching need areas – we now
 have six such posts.

 (c) Creating three new research professional support posts: two administrators and a digital
 engagement officer. Among other things, our research administrators supported colleagues
 organising research-related events. These ranged from international conferences (e.g., 2015
 Annual Conference of the European Policy for Intellectual Property Association; 2019 Global
 Young Property Lawyers Forum) to smaller events. Our Digital Engagement Officer redesigned
 our research web pages, focusing in particular on the research groups, which now all have
 dedicated websites and Twitter accounts. She helped colleagues with digital engagement
 strategies to support grant applications, established the Unit’s podcast (UofG Law Podcast) and
 blog series and assisted colleagues in developing social media profiles to promote their research.

 2.2 Staff development and support

 2.2.1 Induction and events

 We aim to make the Unit a fantastic place to work, where colleagues feel welcome and valued
 from the outset. We have an induction process including a Head of School welcome, briefings on
 teaching and research, a gift bag of useful items (including, as this is Scotland, an umbrella) and
 information about physical orientation, health and safety and local facilities. Our Induction
 Committee (two academics, two professional services colleagues) answers questions and helps
 people settle in.

 We have a wide range of research events. The research groups each have their own seminar
 series (all are welcome to attend, regardless of group affiliation), but our programme is much

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 broader. Internal funding is available for anyone to invite a speaker to the Unit. Events range from
 small specialist reading groups (e.g., public law, socio-legal group) to large public lectures (e.g.,
 James Wood lecture, Adam Smith Lecture on Jurisprudence). We have adapted during the
 pandemic and moved events online (e.g., Competition Law in Isolation seminars, Virtual Criminal
 Law Forum).

 There are numerous opportunities for feedback on draft work. We have a regular Work in Progress
 series, as well as specialist forums, such as the Justice@Glasgow Forum and CREATe seminar
 series. We provide generalist and specialist feedback on draft outputs, via the Unit’s peer review
 group (who also reviewed published outputs for REF).

 We have regular social meetings where colleagues can interact informally (section 2.4 explains
 how we ensure these are inclusive). These continued during the pandemic (e.g., virtual coffee
 mornings, Zoom baby showers). In 2020, we established a Staff Forum – a consultative body
 including all colleagues that provides advice to the Head of School on staffing and working
 arrangements. During the pandemic this helped address remote working issues (section 3.3).

 2.2.2 Work allocation

 We are mindful that teaching/administrative burdens can fall disproportionately on certain groups
 (women, BAME staff, early career colleagues) if steps are not taken to avoid this. We have a
 strong culture of transparency and fairness in work allocation, with a work model ensuring
 equitable allocation. It is visible to all and helps to ensure R&T staff – regardless of grade, gender
 or other characteristics – benefit from protected research time, which accounts for one third of
 work model hours. Administrative roles are openly advertised and allocated work model hours
 commensurate to the workload required. Staff receive an additional 13% allocation for
 administration (beyond time allocated for specific roles) to cover general administrative duties
 required of academics, which would otherwise eat into research time and make the notion of
 protected research time meaningless. Colleagues who secure external research funding are given
 buyout from teaching and administration in addition to the normal protected research time of 33%.

 We are mindful to avoid role stereotyping, whereby women become overburdened with pastoral
 responsibilities and/or lack strategic influence. We have an all-female senior leadership team
 (Head of School and Deputy). Currently our directors of undergraduate and postgraduate studies
 (directors of learning and teaching) are both male; REF preparations were shared between a
 gender-balanced pair of staff members. Over the REF cycle, the Director of Research role was
 held first by a female colleague, then a gender-balanced job share, and now by a male colleague.
 A female colleague will assume the role from September 2021. Our advising leadership team is
 gender balanced and all colleagues are expected to be advisors of studies.

 2.2.3 Mentoring and collegiality

 All staff at grades 7-9 are supported by a mentor – a dedicated Early Career Development
 Programme mentor for those on this programme (section 2.2.6) – who advises on research plans
 and puts the mentee in contact with other sources of help. Work model hours are allocated to
 facilitate meaningful support.

 Our environment is one where colleagues support each other to succeed. Collegiality in research
 is encouraged: in 2019, the professorial promotion criteria were revised to include a requirement
 to demonstrate support for the career development of academic colleagues, particularly those at
 earlier career stages.

 2.2.4 Research allowance

 All R&T staff have a personal research allowance of £1,000. Recognising that colleagues with
 caring responsibilities might find it difficult to travel (and with gender equality in mind), the fund
 can be used for any legitimate type of support, including research assistants and organising events

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in Glasgow. An additional £2,000 per year is allocated to each research group for collective
 activities e.g., seminars and reading groups. There is a separate Strategic Research Goals budget
 of £4,000 per year available to any Unit member, regardless of research group affiliation, to
 support collaboration. This has enabled e.g., developing a human rights network bringing together
 academics from several Universities to collaborate in funding applications.

 2.2.5 Research leave

 R&T colleagues can apply for research leave after six consecutive semesters without leave.
 Following an equality impact assessment in 2016, entitlement continues to accrue during periods
 of leave due to e.g., medical absence, maternity leave. Research leave requires a research plan
 contributing to our strategic aims; outcomes are reported after its conclusion. Research leave
 provides full relief from teaching/administration for six months and carries a 50% work model
 reduction in the academic year within which leave is granted (ensuring the six months when leave
 is not taken are not over-loaded). Over the REF period, 15 of our 60 staff on R&T contracts had
 one period of research leave; 19 had two (the remainder are mostly colleagues who joined too
 recently to be eligible). Leave has enabled colleagues to finish major projects (e.g., Farmer, Finlay,
 Rahmatian monographs) and develop successful funding applications (e.g., Chalmers/Scottish
 Government, Dukes/ERC, Geiss/AHRC).

 A College Excellence Fund supports teaching replacement to facilitate output completion or impact
 activity. Applications from those who might be reluctant to apply (e.g., women, early career
 colleagues) are encouraged. 29 Unit members obtained funds (16 males, 13 females: 12 grades
 7-8, 6 grade 9, 11 grade 10). Excellence Fund money has supported colleagues to complete nine
 monographs and three impact case studies.

 2.2.6 Supporting early career researchers

 Early career researchers are supported via the Early Career Development Programme (ECDP).
 ECDP helps newly appointed academics to achieve career progression within a defined timescale,
 through setting annual objectives, mentoring, and networking. Tailored learning and development
 are provided in three areas (Learning/Teaching, Research/Knowledge Exchange and
 Leadership), aligned to promotion criteria. Colleagues on ECDP have a reduced
 teaching/administration load for two years (50% in year 1; 25% in year 2). Over the REF period,
 29 of our submitted staff started on ECDP at grades 7 or 8. Fourteen have already secured
 promotion (all within ECDP timescales of four years for grade 7 to 8, six years for grade 8 to 9).

 A dedicated post-doc mentor (separate to any specific project mentor) looks after our growing
 post-doc community, facilitating training opportunities and providing advice and support. The
 University of Glasgow has signed up to the 2019 Researcher Development Concordat and
 provides a range of development opportunities, as well as an annual research staff conference
 and informal support, such as post-doc careers lunches.

 2.2.7 Impact support

 Our Impact Officer is the “first port of call” for impact-related queries. The significance of the role
 is recognised through 150 work model hours annually. The Unit supported our Impact Officer from
 the previous REF cycle to continue (until her secondment to the Scottish Law Commission towards
 the end of the cycle), facilitating the development of expertise.

 The Impact Officer developed a new Unit-level training programme for this REF cycle. Initial
 sessions, compulsory for all researchers, focused on understanding impact and developing an
 impact practice. Subsequent sessions included social media training, engagement with
 Parliamentary officials, collaborative research project design with end users and development of
 public engagement materials. She worked with individual colleagues, identifying impact potential
 and advising on pathways and funding sources. Evidence of success is found in our impact case


                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 studies, the range of staff who have given evidence to Parliamentary Committees and other
 consultations and the activities detailed in sections 4.2-4.4.

 We encourage and support staff to undertake secondments with research users. Mair led the
 negotiation of a Memorandum of Understanding on academic secondments between the Scottish
 Law Schools and Scottish Law Commission. MacLeod (Unit member until 2018) was the first
 placement under this scheme, contributing to the Discussion Paper on Enforcement of Heritable
 Securities. Ó Floinn had a six-month secondment with the Law Commission of England and
 Wales, contributing to their Consultation Paper on Search Warrants and Scoping Report on
 Abusive and Offensive Online Communications. A series of secondments for Meletti (CREATe
 research associate) at the British Film Institute led to changes detailed in the CREATe impact
 case study. McCarthy was appointed as a Commissioner at the Scottish Law Commission in 2019
 on a five-year secondment.

 We have a portfolio of resources illustrating the range of potential impact activities and sources of
 institutional and external funding. This includes the University of Glasgow ESRC Impact
 Acceleration Account, which has supported 22 impact projects within the Unit (involving 17
 colleagues) to a total of £173,285. It has facilitated the development of three of our impact case
 studies and enabled impact outwith these. For example, Craig organised a symposium for lawyers
 and language experts, who subsequently collaborated in successful litigation challenging Home
 Office policy on language analysis in asylum claims; Fletcher employed a research assistant to
 develop training materials on Brexit immigration issues for Citizens Advice Bureau; Robbie held
 an engagement workshop with practitioners, supporting her in securing funding for a larger project
 from the Royal Society of Edinburgh/Carnegie Trust.

 2.3 Research students

 2.3.1 Strategy

 We recognise the importance of research students to our research culture. Our PGR strategy has
 three components: to (a) attract a diverse body of excellent students (b) create a welcoming and
 inclusive environment where they thrive and (c) help them develop skills that lead to positive career
 destinations.

 2.3.2 Attracting a diverse body of excellent students

 We target students in the final year of their LLB/LLM with a view to PhD study, providing a pipeline
 of excellent doctoral students. We recognise, however, that attracting the best students requires
 funding. We utilised external and internal funding sources, resulting in a large high-quality PGR
 student body – in REF2014 the Unit awarded 24 doctoral degrees by supervisor load; this
 increased in the current cycle to 79.97.

 Our student body is diverse – students awarded PhDs over the cycle were 33% UK, 15% EU and
 51% from the rest of the world. We supervised students of 38 different nationalities, from Africa,
 Asia, the EU, the Middle East and South, Central and North America. Female supervisees have
 outnumbered male for every year of the REF cycle bar 2013/14. We encouraged inter-disciplinary
 work, resulting in numerous joint supervision partnerships (section 4.6).

 No research-based professional doctorates were awarded in the assessment period.

 (a) Externally funded studentships

 The Unit has exploited opportunities for UKRI funding – obtaining one AHRC DTC doctoral
 scholarship and three ESRC DTP 1+3 studentships. We secured doctoral scholarships from the
 Leverhulme Trust, AHRC (1+3 award, Craig’s Researching Multilingually project), Carnegie and
 ERC (Dukes’ Starter Grant). Three doctoral candidates secured Modern Law Review


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 scholarships, two China Scholarship Council awards and one a scholarship from the Altona
 Foundation for Philosophical Research.

 We explored opportunities for collaborative studentships with non-academic institutions and
 secured PhD studentships funded by CMS Cameron McKenna and the National Library of
 Scotland.

 We helped students to secure funding for the LLM by Research, which provides a pathway to PhD
 study, securing four scholarships from the Clark Foundation and one collaborative studentship
 with Registers of Scotland. Three of these students have progressed to funded PhDs within the
 Unit.

 (b) Internal investment

 The Unit invested in five new PhD studentships over the REF cycle, via its RTA posts (section
 2.1.2). We also invested in a collaborative PhD studentship with the Yaoundé Ethics Lab
 (Université Catholique d’Afrique Centrale, Cameroon), recruiting the first student in April 2020 for
 a September 2020 start, with a supervisor from each institution. We supported PhD candidates to
 obtain College scholarships, with 21 awards over the REF period. We secured two PhD
 scholarships from the University’s inter-disciplinary Lord Kelvin Adam Smith (LKAS) scheme (with
 history and music) and one Eleanor Emery Scholarship (which supports students from Botswana,
 using a former High Commissioner’s legacy).

 (c) Innovative programmes

 We worked to make the PhD programme attractive to new audiences via partnerships and
 innovative programmes. The best example is the Collaborative PhD in Legal Theory, established
 during the previous REF period. This is now a collaborative venture between the Universities of
 Glasgow, Louvain and Tilburg, and was singled out as a strength in REF2014. In recognition of its
 strategic importance, the Unit took over its ownership in 2016. It is part of the European Graduate
 Network in Legal Theory (including the Universities of Vienna, Frankfurt, Lucerne, Stockholm,
 Brussels and Cracow). Each student is allocated to one participating university, which confers the
 PhD, and has a co-supervisor from another. The Goethe University Frankfurt is in the process of
 linking its LLM Legal Theory programme, which will create a pipeline of students moving onto the
 PhD.

 Our PhD and Research LLM programmes are available in distance learning mode, supported by
 an online research methods course (section 2.3.4). This has proved especially important during
 the pandemic, providing opportunity for doctoral study to those who cannot travel to Glasgow.

 2.3.3 An environment where PhD students thrive

 We have created an excellent PGR environment, reflected in our most recent PRES Survey
 (2019), where 86% of respondents reported overall satisfaction, compared to 80% across all
 participating Law Schools.

 (a) Research culture

 Students have a week-long induction including sessions on research integrity, training
 opportunities and sources of financial support, as well as inclusive and culturally sensitive social
 events. From the outset, they are integrated into our research culture. The research groups include
 staff and PGR researchers and there is a wealth of subject-specific groups that PhD candidates
 whose research is not aligned with one of the research groups can join. This means PhD
 candidates participate, alongside staff, in reading groups (e.g., legal theory, public law) and
 discussion groups (e.g., the Socio-Legal Group) and present work at the Unit’s regular events
 (e.g., Criminal Law Forum, Justice@Glasgow Forum). Elected PGR student representatives sit on
 the Postgraduate Committee and attend School meetings.

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The flagship event of the year is the Glasgow Law Postgraduate Conference, established in 2018,
 with its success making it an annual – and increasingly international – event. In 2019, only a third
 of the presenters were from the Unit, with others from a range of countries, including Austria,
 Canada, Italy, the Netherlands and the US. The Conference is student-led, but sessions are
 chaired by senior academics who provide written feedback. In 2020, the event ran in a limited form
 online; it will run fully again in 2021.

 The Unit runs monthly “Shut Up and Write” sessions, where PGRs and staff work in short silent
 bursts with a structured break schedule; this has continued virtually during the pandemic. We hold
 an annual PGR Poster competition and provide training on designing research posters.

 Visiting doctoral students are a welcome addition to the research environment – we hosted 14 this
 REF cycle. We offer scholarships to support this e.g., the Alan Rodger Postgraduate Visiting
 Researcher scheme (section 3.4) and Glasgow Legal Theory Bursary.

 (b) Facilities and support

 We have a PGR Director and Deputy Director who provide support, as well as an experienced
 PGR Administrator. All doctoral students have office space, a computer, free printing and, from
 2020-21, will be given a personal laptop. They are members of the College of Social Sciences
 Graduate School (‘Graduate School’) and attend events within the Unit and Graduate School,
 encouraging disciplinary and inter-disciplinary networking.

 PGR students can apply for funding to support research-related activities; 24 students did so in
 2018-19, primarily for conference attendance but also activities such as transcription services.
 PGR students can apply for Rankin Travel Scholarships, established in 2018 through legacy
 funding – the first successful applicant used the funding to participate in the International Bar
 Association Conference.

 We have taken care to reach out to our PGR community during the pandemic, hosting online Q&A
 sessions and taking a flexible approach towards requests for suspensions/extensions.
 Institutionally-funded students have had their awards extended. A virtual peer support group
 meets via Zoom, sharing lockdown survival tips and coping mechanisms. Recognising that PGR
 students may not be able to work effectively at home, we facilitated a safe return to their office
 space where possible for those who need it.

 (c) Quality assurance

 Supervision is conducted within the framework of the University’s PGR Code of Practice. All
 candidates have a supervisory team of at least two members. First supervisors must have prior
 supervision experience at least as a second supervisor to completion. All supervisors attend
 mandatory supervisor training workshops on a rolling five-year basis and in the interim have
 access to a comprehensive suite of support and training workshops, events and resources.
 Minutes are kept of all supervision meetings.

 An annual review provides independent progress monitoring. Its precise nature depends on the
 year of study, but it involves submission of work and a face-to-face meeting with two staff
 members. Students are asked (in confidence) for comments on their supervisory experience.

 2.3.4 Training and development

 PGR students and the supervisory team undertake an initial training needs assessment and
 establish a development plan, choosing from the portfolio of opportunities available. The plan is
 reviewed at the annual progress review, via a PGR Training & Professional Development Log
 covering subject specific, research methods/philosophy and researcher development skills
 (aligned to the Vitae Researcher Development Framework). All PGR candidates take the Law

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 School’s Research Methods course and mandatory training in equality and diversity, research
 data management, data protection and research integrity. The Research Methods course is
 available in-person and online and includes formal presentations to help prepare for the viva and
 future academic careers. We have contributed to doctoral training more widely, running a Scottish
 Graduate School for Arts and Humanities workshop “Critical traditions and approaches in legal
 research” for 29 doctoral students across Scotland.

 The Unit provides annual training on topics including publishing and academic job interviews and
 PGR candidates attend employability related training in the Graduate School. We offer teaching
 opportunities (through formal application to a GTA contract to ensure equality of opportunity) to
 help career development. We give all candidates who want one a mock viva to help prepare for
 the real thing. We provide internship opportunities internally for PGR students to work on academic
 projects (seven over the cycle). We also seek to provide access to exceptional training
 opportunities outside Glasgow e.g., offering internships at the United Nations and European Bank
 for Reconstruction and Development; becoming an institutional partner in the annual Intensive
 Doctoral Week training programme run at Sciences Po University (Paris).

 Our success is reflected in the 2019 PRES survey, where 93% of respondents agreed their PGR
 programme had developed their research skills, compared to 83% for all participating Law
 Schools. We produce outstanding PhD graduates, many of whom become colleagues – over the
 REF period, six of our PhD students were appointed as lecturers within the Unit. Others secured
 academic posts elsewhere in the UK (e.g. Bristol, Lancaster, Leeds, Oxford) and around the world
 (e.g. Leuven, Riyadh, Nankai, Chiang Mai, Vietnam National University, Tartu, Queensland); or
 secured prestigious positions in practice (e.g. as advocates, a magistrate at the International
 Criminal Court, senior roles in law firms).

 2.4 Equality and diversity

 A concern with equality and diversity runs through our research, which addresses issues including
 workplace gender equality (Busby), food insecurity (Chadwick), supporting asylum seekers (Craig,
 Fletcher), access to justice for vulnerable energy consumers (Gill), migrant domestic workers’
 rights (Pavlou), the conduct of rape trials (Chalmers, Leverick) and land rights of minorities
 (Jokubauskaite).

                                      We aim to make the Unit a welcoming environment where
                                      everyone feels valued. We hold an annual Family Day
                                      (including children and pets) and ensure that, unless there is
                                      a very compelling reason otherwise, research events are held
                                      in core hours (10am-4pm). We hold social events during core
                                      hours, and they are inclusive to those who do not drink
                                      alcohol e.g., our regular Cake Days, which have included a
                                      successful Bake Your Research event (pictured).


 We are aware that our international colleagues might feel disadvantaged by being away from
 home and in an unfamiliar cultural setting. We support colleagues recruited from outside the UK
 by putting them in touch with peers, who advise on e.g., finding accommodation, living in Glasgow
 and UK academic culture. We have reached out to support colleagues when disturbances or
 disasters have occurred in their home countries and offered support to our EU colleagues to
 ensure they feel welcome and valued after Brexit (reinforced by the University, with e.g.,
 supportive messages from the Principal and practical help with the EU Settlement Scheme).




                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



                          As a traditional university, our physical environment has not always
                          reflected diversity. Recognising this – and especially that representations
                          of white men dominated the Law School building – we commissioned
                          portraits of the first five female professors which hang in a prominent
                          stairway and renamed a key meeting room after a leading female judge
                          (Lady Cosgrove). Staff and students have described the portraits as
                          inspiring. The picture to the left is of Noreen Burrows CBE, appointed
                          Jean Monnet Professor of European Law in 1990.

                       Our project 100 Voices for 100 Years, marking the centenary of the Sex
 Disqualification (Removal) Act 1919 (section 4.3), features prominently in our physical
 environment and website. It focuses on female lawyers and celebrates diversity, showcasing role
 models from black and minority ethnic backgrounds, the trans community, those with disabilities
 and those from disadvantaged backgrounds. The visibility of their stories is an important part of
 making our research environment welcoming and inclusive to those from minority groups.

 We support part-time working – over the REF period two colleagues made successful flexible
 working applications and three were appointed part-time due to caring responsibilities. Our work
 model (section 2.2.2) ensures part-time staff are allocated teaching/administrative duties
 commensurate with their fractional appointment. We have supported staff with caring
 responsibilities during the pandemic by re-distributing work. We have welcomed children in Zoom
 meetings, often to great hilarity. Our Research Committee recently surveyed all colleagues to
 assess the impact of the pandemic (caring responsibilities in particular) on research activity. It will
 use these findings to identify additional support required to address inequalities (e.g., financial
 support, enhanced research leave).

 The Unit has helped three colleagues returning from maternity leave, using the University’s
 Academic Returners Research Fund , which provides up to £10,000 for e.g., teaching buyout. Two
 subsequently obtained significant funding awards (from the Royal Society of Edinburgh and ERC).
 The University offers two weeks fully-paid paternity leave (with no length of service eligibility
 requirement), utilised by five colleagues in the current cycle.

 The gender balance of our category A staff is 61% male/39% female. We have addressed gender
 equality in recruitment in various ways. Candidates for interview are selected using pre-
 determined essential and desirable criteria. Appointment panels always have at least 40% female
 representation – in order not to over-burden senior female staff, these can be from other
 disciplines. All panel members undergo equality and diversity and unconscious bias training. This
 has helped to achieve gender parity at grades 7-9, where most recent recruitment has occurred.

 We are conscious, however, that we have some way to go. Only seven of the Unit’s 25 professors
 are female (27%) (one is presently on secondment – section 2.2.7). Recognising that they are
 disproportionately likely to delay seeking promotion, we encourage women to apply by raising it in
 annual Performance and Development Reviews, with some success. Over the REF period, there
 have been 31 promotions (at all levels), 14 female and 17 male. Four women have been promoted
 to chairs, compared to three men. We will continue to mentor and support all colleagues to achieve
 promotion, in part via the ECDP (section 2.2.6). A University analysis demonstrated that the ECDP
 has significantly increased the number of women applying for promotion and this is also evidenced
 by our own figures.

 We are conscious that while we have made good progress regarding gender and nationality, we
 need to think more strategically about equality and diversity in relation to some of the other groups
 protected under the Equality Act. We have appointed an Equalities Officer, who has begun to
 broaden our focus. We have, for example, implemented a mandatory equality and diversity
 checklist for all research events – ensuring e.g., accessibility, appropriate dietary provision, ethnic
 diversity of speakers. We arranged bespoke unconscious bias sessions for all staff, led by

                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Challenge Consultancy, a London-based firm of consultants which provides training on equality,
 diversity and related issues. We have designed our website with content accessibility in mind e.g.,
 captioning videos/pictures and ensuring text is compatible with screen readers and can be
 enlarged without spilling off the page.

 2.6 Selecting the output and impact portfolio

 Our output portfolio was developed in line with the University’s REF Code of Practice. Outputs
 were scored on a REF 12-point scale by two reviewers (a third reviewer becoming involved where
 scores diverged) and were selected entirely on merit.

 Throughout the process, we were mindful of gender equality. In REF2014 we submitted 35 of 46
 eligible staff, but 81% of male staff were submitted, compared to 67% of female staff. For 2021,
 outputs were selected by a gender balanced Output Scoring Committee and all reviewers
 underwent unconscious bias training. We monitored output scores by gender throughout the
 process and our 2021 output portfolio is in line with the overall gender balance of the Unit. A
 University Equality Impact Assessment confirmed this, finding no significant difference in output
 scores by sex of author.

 The impact case study selection process was also rigorous and objective. All Unit members were
 encouraged to submit potential case studies, which were reviewed by an internal gender-balanced
 four-person panel. Seven were selected for development, with an eighth being added after a
 further invitation midway through the REF cycle. These went through two rounds of external review
 by former REF panel members (eight reviewers in round one, 11 in round two), whose scores
 determined the final selections.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income generation strategy

 In our REF2014 submission, we reported significant research income success, most notably a
 2012 RCUK award of £5.1m (value to Glasgow: £2.2m) to CREATe. The Unit recognised this
 award would end during the current REF cycle and we needed to (a) ensure CREATe’s
 sustainability and (b) diversify our income base. Both aims were achieved.

 Over the cycle our total research income was £4,705,394, with new awards worth £6,035,790.
 Breaking down these figures:

 (a) CREATe secured new awards worth £1,870,427 to the University of Glasgow from funders
 including the AHRC, European Commission and EPSRC, most notably the AHRC Centre of
 Excellence for Policy & Evidence in the Creative Industries (£6 million total, £610,189 to CREATe).

 (b) 49% of our research income and 69% of the value of new awards were contributed by
 colleagues outside CREATe. The percentage of staff holding grants rose from 17.5% in 2013-14
 to 35% in 2019-20 (and 61% over the REF cycle as a whole). Gender balance has improved: in
 2013-14, female colleagues contributed 19% of research income; in 2019/20 this rose to 60%.

 We achieved this as follows.

 3.2 Unit-level actions on income generation

 3.2.1 Embedding research funding into our culture

 Supported by the development of law-specific resources, the Unit endeavoured to establish
 funding applications as a mainstream activity expected of all. Funding is discussed with mentors


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (who offer support and/or direct colleagues elsewhere). The research groups have created a forum
 where collaborative funding applications can be developed, or individual applications supported.

 We recognise that research funding trajectories often build incrementally and encourage early
 career colleagues to apply for smaller awards as the first step in their research income profile.
 This has been successful – 12 Unit members secured their first award from funders including the
 British Academy, Carnegie Trust, Clark Foundation for Legal Education, Royal Society of
 Edinburgh and Society of Legal Scholars. Some have already progressed and secured larger
 awards (e.g., Iljadica/Horizon 2020).

 3.2.2 Developing law-specific resources

 We developed an extensive intranet site with a sources of funding guide tailored to legal research
 and database of successful applications. Researchers can also access databases of successful
 applications from the Colleges of Social Sciences and Arts.

 We have worked hard to change the perception that research grants are only available for certain
 types of activity, by showcasing successful applications from all areas. This has led to a diverse
 portfolio of major awards, covering historical (e.g., Farmer/Leverhulme Major Research
 Fellowship), theoretical (e.g., Dukes/ERC award), empirical (e.g., Gill/ESRC award) and doctrinal
 (e.g., Chalmers/Philip Leverhulme Prize) projects.

 3.2.3 Effective peer review

 We introduced comprehensive peer review for applications – within the Unit for all applications,
 with additional College-level review for larger ones (including all UKRI applications). A Unit-level
 review panel was established, comprising colleagues who have been awarded substantial funding
 and experienced external reviewers. College-level review has facilitated assessments by senior
 academics with high-level Research Council experience, who advise on how to frame projects to
 appeal to non-law reviewers. The most notable success is the Geiss/Jokubauskaite/Olcay AHRC
 award.

 3.2.4 Improved support for applications

 Our Impact Officer (who advises on pathways to impact, with input from two experienced College
 impact advisers) and Digital Engagement Officer (who advises on project websites/social media)
 provide support for applications. The Unit has benefitted greatly from the College Research
 Support Office, established in 2015. This has transformed the help available, with experienced
 project officers providing continuous support from the outset (e.g., identifying funding sources),
 through to managing financial/HR issues for successful applications.

 3.2.5 Targeting external post-doctoral fellowships

 We have grown our post-doctoral community, by publicising opportunities and directly targeting
 promising candidates. We have utilised the University’s Lord Kelvin Adam Smith Leadership
 Fellowship Scheme, which provides support/matched funding for those applying for externally
 funded fellowships. Over the REF period we secured two Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships,
 a British Academy Postdoctoral Fellowship, an ESRC Post-Doctoral Fellowship (awarded June
 2020, commenced September 2020) and a Marie Curie-Sklodowska Individual Fellowship
 (awarded February 2020, commencing in 2021).

 We created opportunities for post-doctoral researchers through funded research projects e.g.,
 Dukes’ ERC grant (three); CREATe’s AHRC (three) and Horizon 2020 (one) awards;
 Geiss/Jokubauskaite/Olcay AHRC award (one).




                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2.6 Outputs and impact

 We recognise that income is not an aim in its own right – what is important is that funded projects
 contribute to advancing knowledge and/or achieving meaningful social change. This, of course,
 can take time and many of our funded projects will not come to fruition until the next REF cycle,
 while some funded in the previous cycle are now delivering results. For example, outputs included
 in this submission include Dukes’ The Labour Constitution (OUP, 2014), Farmer’s Making the
 Modern Criminal Law (OUP, 2016) and Finlay’s Legal Practice in Eighteenth-Century Scotland
 (Brill, 2015), all of which were supported by AHRC awards reported in REF2014. Rahmatian’s
 Credit and Creed (Routledge, 2019) was supported by a more recent award from Nantes Institute
 for Advanced Study.

 Two impact case studies are based on funded research (Chalmers and Leverick, CREATe). Other
 awards have led to impact e.g., Craig’s AHRC funded project ‘Researching Multilingually’ has
 influenced Home Office decision-making policy about refugee status; Mair’s Nuffield funded-
 project has influenced divorce law reform in England and Wales; Fletcher/Busby’s Legal Education
 Foundation/Amnesty International funding enabled them to support Scottish civil society
 organisations dealing with Brexit.

 3.3 Infrastructure and facilities

 All staff and PhD students have offices in one of two buildings, a short walk apart. Both are close
 to the University Library, one of the UK’s leading research libraries. We also have a subject-
 specific library and a research meeting room that can only be booked by the Unit (a flexible space
 for e.g., meetings, seminars/workshops). The University is constructing an Advanced Research
 Centre (ARC), opening in 2021 and housing 600 researchers (including PhD students), to
 encourage inter-disciplinary collaboration. CREATe will be part of the leadership of the ARC’s
 Creative Economies theme, bringing together researchers in law, creative/cultural policy, digital
 humanities and immersive technologies. The ARC will have a strong public engagement mission;
 public areas will house research exhibitions.

 The global pandemic has, of course, restricted access to some of our facilities. We have supported
 staff to work at home by arranging transfer of office equipment (e.g., computers, chairs), supplying
 additional equipment (e.g., wi-fi dongles with pre-loaded data allowances, webcams, headsets)
 and providing safe office space for those whose circumstances make it difficult to work effectively
 at home.

 3.4 Major benefits in kind

 As a result of significant legacy funding (the James and Grace Sutherland Fund), in 2018 the Unit
 launched the Glasgow Law Fellowship, which enables distinguished scholars to spend time in
 Glasgow, interacting with staff and PhD students. The 2019 Fellows were Dyzenhaus (Toronto),
 Ng (Melbourne) and Ripstein (Toronto). In 2015 the family of the late Lord Rodger of Earlsferry
 established an endowment to support Roman law/legal history, which funds the annual
 appointment of an Alan Rodger Postgraduate Visiting Researcher (three awards to date). The
 John and Mary Buchanan Travel Scholarships have funded overseas travel for PhD students in
 Commercial Law/International Private Law.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 As a Unit, we feel a strong sense of civic responsibility. We undertake research driven by user
 needs, to the benefit of society, many examples of which are shown below. We do this at local
 and national level, but a priority in the current cycle was to strengthen our international focus,
 through collaborative projects and working for global social justice. This is very much a collective
 venture – we have helped ECRs to ‘make a difference’, as well as supporting experienced
 colleagues.

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.1 Research collaborations, networks, partnerships

 Over the review period, 52 colleagues were involved in collaborative research with academics
 from other institutions. We encourage collaboration, recognising that combining expertise enables
 complex societal problems to be addressed. We have supported collaborative work with our own
 funds and helped staff to access institutional support.

 This has led to key successes. CREATe researchers, collaborating with nine European
 institutions, secured funding from the European Commission to develop an integrated policy
 approach to copyright in the EU digital single market. Geiss/Jokubauskaite/Olcay, collaborating
 with researchers from Freie Universität Berlin/University of Rosario (Colombia), obtained funding
 from the AHRC/German Research Foundation for the “Endless Conflicts” project, investigating
 how international law might promote an integrated humanitarian and development response to
 protracted armed conflicts. Farmer and Ó Floinn collaborated with researchers from Queen Mary,
 University of London/Law Commission of England and Wales to obtain funding from the Institute
 of Advanced Legal Studies to hold the 2020 WG Hart Workshop (postponed until 2021 due to the
 pandemic), which will bring together academics, lawyers and judges to address challenges of
 jurisdiction in criminal investigations and prosecutions.

 Research collaborations have led to two impact case studies – Chalmers and Leverick (with Munro
 (Warwick) and social researchers from Ipsos MORI); CREATe (with multiple partner institutions).
 They have resulted in excellent outputs e.g., Sergakis’ collaboration with researchers from the
 University of Sapienza (Rome) was best paper at the 2019 European Academy of Management
 conference and his collaborative work with researchers from the Universities of Montreal/Trento
 informed the Ontario Securities Commission.

 We have invested in long-term partnerships, such as the Radboud-Glasgow Collaboration Fund
 (most recently enabling a collaborative project on the establishment of the Permanent Court of
 International Justice) and the newly-established European Centre for Advanced Studies (with the
 University of Leuphana), which has already secured external funding for a collaborative project on
 the role of courts in conflict litigation.

 We value the exchange of ideas with a diverse community of visiting scholars and offer financial
 support for this through the Glasgow Law Fellowship (section 3.4). Over the REF period, the Unit
 hosted 73 visiting academics from 25 countries (others were unable to visit due to the pandemic).
 Visitors are fully integrated into the research environment e.g., joining reading groups, giving
 public lectures, one-on-one meetings with doctoral students. We support our researchers to visit
 other institutions: 38 colleagues were visiting researchers at 64 different institutions outside
 Glasgow (four UK e.g., Oxford, LSE; 60 international e.g., Harvard, Sciences Po, Tokyo, Toronto,
 Yale). Most were funded by the host institution/external grants, but we have used institutional
 funding to support early career colleagues e.g., Devaney (Sydney); Lovat (McGill).

 4.2 Relationships with key research users

 Building relationships with research beneficiaries is a strength of the Unit and vitally important to
 fulfil our civic responsibility to respond to societal challenges. Creating the law reform and public
 policy (LRPP) research group has helped to bring together people working in this area to pool
 expertise and offer support/advice.

 We encourage colleagues to undertake research driven by user needs, whether local, national or
 global. Our policy of encouraging secondments – and their outcomes – was discussed in section
 2.2.7. At a local level, the LRPP group has successfully developed relationships with key
 beneficiaries. These include the Scottish Government, with funded projects addressing challenges
 such as hate crime, wrongful conviction (Chalmers/Leverick impact case study) and child contact
 following domestic abuse. Other examples include Gill’s impact case study on improving
 complaints processes (with the Scottish Public Services Ombudsman) and Busby/Fletcher’s

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Amnesty International/Legal Education Foundation project on Scottish civic society/Brexit (section
 4.7).

 Beyond Scotland, CREATe’s AHRC Creative Industries Policy and Evidence Centre provides
 independent research and recommendations to aid development of policies for the UK's creative
 industries, contributing to their continued success. CREATe curates three globally leading digital
 resources: (a) www.CopyrightHistory.org (with the University of Cambridge, awarded an
 Outstanding evaluation by the AHRC); (b) www.CopyrightEvidence.org (the most important
 reference point for accessing and disseminating copyright research findings); and (c)
 www.CopyrightUser.org (CREATe’s impact case study). Gill’s ESRC funded project Just Energy
 focussed on improving vulnerable energy consumers’ access to justice (in five European
 countries/regions). Murdoch worked with the Council of Europe to combat ill-treatment of
 detainees and Geiss worked with the German Government/United Nations to address the problem
 of autonomous weapons systems (both are impact case studies).

 We encourage colleagues to contribute to policy formation at local, national and international level
 and held training sessions for ECRs to help them build the skills and confidence to do this. 20
 colleagues (mostly from the LRPP group, including several ECRs) provided, by invitation, oral
 evidence to Parliamentary or similar committees on 64 occasions, including the Bank of England,
 Council of Europe, European Parliament, German Parliament, House of Commons, House of
 Lords, Scottish Parliament and United Nations. One Unit member (Tomkins) is an MSP and has
 advised on how to contribute effectively to policy debates.

 Unit members held key senior advisory roles over the REF period. Busby was a member of the
 Equality and Human Rights Commission Scotland, the Scottish Government’s Employment
 Tribunal Stakeholders Forum and Scotland’s Expert Advisory Group on the UN Convention on the
 Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination against Women. She was a member of the First
 Minister’s Advisory Group on Human Rights Leadership and will take forward its recommendations
 as Chair of the Academic Advisory Panel to the National Taskforce for Human Rights Leadership.
 Mullen was Constitutional Adviser to the Scottish Parliament Constitution and Finance Committee.
 Tomkins was adviser to the Strathclyde Commission, a member of the Smith Commission (whose
 recommendations for devolution of powers to the Scottish Parliament were implemented in the
 Scotland Act 2016), Constitutional Advisor to the Secretary of State for Scotland and Legal Adviser
 to the House of Lords Constitution Committee. Sergakis was a member of the Oversight
 Committee of the Best Practice Principles for Shareholder Voting Research Providers, the proxy
 advisors’ global industry group.

 4.3 Wider contributions to the economy and society

 26 Unit members served on advisory groups or as consultants to review bodies, using research
 expertise to assist with law/policy reforms. As well as the examples in the impact case studies,
 beneficiary organisations included the Commonwealth Secretariat, General Confederation of
 Italian Industry, Governments of Belize and Greece, Italian Ministry of Finance, King IV Committee
 on Corporate Governance in South Africa, Law Commission of England and Wales, Ministry of
 Justice, Scottish Law Commission, Swiss Federal Department of Defence, UK Intellectual
 Property Office and World Pensions Council.

 29 colleagues used research expertise to design and/or deliver training to non-academic bodies
 as diverse as the British Transport Police, Citizens Advice Bureau, Bulgarian/North Macedonian
 judges, Council of Europe, Employment Tribunal judges, Equality and Human Rights Commission,
 Faculty of Advocates, Italian pension funds, Judicial College, Judicial Institute for Scotland, military
 officers and the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe. Unit members regularly
 deliver CPD seminars to Scottish legal practitioners.

 In partnership with RebLaw, the Unit hosted the 2017 and 2019 RebLaw Conferences at Glasgow,
 bringing together lawyers and academics to explore how they might campaign, protest and
 advocate for rights in Scotland, using the law as a tool for social justice.

                                                                                                 Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



                          In 2019, to mark the centenary of the Sex Disqualification (Removal) Act
                          1919, Fletcher directed the project 100 Voices for 100 Years, creating a
                          digital exhibition featuring oral histories of 100 women past and present
                          with a connection to Glasgow Law School. An ongoing collaboration with
                          National Archives Scotland has researched the inspirational stories of
                          early pioneering women in law, holding a series of events and exhibitions,
                          and focusing in particular on Madge Easton Anderson, a graduate of the
                          University of Glasgow and first female lawyer in the UK.



 The team’s historical research resulted in the discovery of an
 image of Madge (above) and her picture – with an Andy
 Warhol style makeover – is displayed throughout the Law
 School and has featured in public engagement events in
 schools and more widely. The work has been described on
 Twitter as “inspirational”, “amazing”, “brilliant” and
 “wonderful”.


 Two global law firms – Dentons and Ashurst – have sponsored the research, stating that it is an
 important part of their work around equality and diversity, helping to change culture and practices
 in their firms. Madge’s story is being written up for the BBC – the scriptwriter testified that “[t]he
 current research has helped me write the treatment and will ultimately be a core element in my
 writing of the script”.

 4.4 Engagement with diverse communities and publics

 The unit supported staff to participate in important public engagement initiatives including the
 ESRC Festival of Social Sciences (members of the LRPP group showcased their research on
 cohabitation) and the 2016 and 2019 Explorathons at the Glasgow Science Centre (showcased
 projects included CREATe’s online copyright infringement tracker and 100 Voices for 100 Years).
 In 2015, Craig and Fletcher led the Immigration Bail Observation project, engaging with Detention
 Forum Scotland and the Campaign to Close Campsfield, to produce a Guide to Supporting
 Detainees in Immigration Bail Hearings. In 2019, Mair and McCarthy launched the prototype of a
 board game, Legally Wed, designed to help public understanding of the law relating to marriage,
 with support from the ESRC Impact Acceleration Account Business Booster Fund.

 35 Unit members hosted seminars/workshops with non-academic participants, including civil
 servants, legal practitioners and MSPs. Aside from those already noted, these include the annual
 Gerald Gordon Seminar in Criminal Law (co-funded by the Clark Foundation and Faculty of
 Advocates – attended by legal practitioners and academics); Chadwick’s 2017 workshop on the
 financialisation of the food system (attended by NGOs from the UK and Netherlands and winning
 the Socio-Legal Studies Association’s Annual Seminar competition prize); and Jokubauskaite’s
 2019 workshop on stakeholder engagement in development finance (involving participants from
 international financial institutions and UN agencies).

 4.5 Contribution to sustainability of the discipline

 The Unit’s expansion has enabled it to contribute to the sustainability of the discipline by appointing
 19 members of staff to their first lectureship over the REF period. Six were our own doctoral
 students (section 2.3.4), two previously held post-doctoral fellowships with us, and all remain in
 post at the end of the review period. Institutional funding for doctoral study has contributed to
 sustainability, with 29 students in the Unit in receipt of internal funding at UKRI levels over the
 review period (section 2.3.2).

                                                                                                Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.6 Support for and exemplars of interdisciplinary research

 Interdisciplinary research has been fostered in a variety of ways including:

 (a) Recruiting researchers from diverse disciplinary backgrounds – 14 members of the Unit hold
 an undergraduate degree in a subject other than law.

 (b) Cross-disciplinary PhD supervision: over the review period 18 of the Unit’s doctoral students
 were jointly supervised with other University departments (accounting and finance, classics, East
 European studies, education, history, information studies medicine, music, philosophy, sociology
 and urban studies). Support was provided for two of these via Lord Kelvin Adam Smith
 scholarships (section 2.3.2(b)). Unit members have also contributed expertise as second
 supervisors to doctoral students in other departments, including film studies and psychology.

 (c) Using the College Strategic Research Fund to develop funding applications drawing on other
 disciplines (e.g., Margoni/open science; Sergakis/economics and management).

 Over the review period, 38 colleagues undertook interdisciplinary research projects with
 disciplines as diverse as creative arts, ecology and linguistics. We have made particularly strong
 links with business (organising collaborative events, most recently on the potential of financial
 regulation technology for business and regulators) and philosophy (via the Glasgow Law and
 Philosophy Network, which runs a seminar series sponsored by Hart Publishing and has attracted
 RSE funding for a workshop series). A recent exemplar of inter-disciplinary collaborative research
 is the New Frontiers in International Development Finance network (involving Jokubauskaite). The
 combination of expertise from law, economics/finance, politics, sociology and geography informed
 the UN Special Rapporteur for the Right to Development on international development finance
 best practice, and the group’s work was repeatedly cited in his report to the United Nations General
 Assembly.

 The Unit’s key exemplar of externally funded interdisciplinary research is CREATe (section
 1.3.1(c)). Other significant examples include:

 •   Chadwick and Solana: with business/management, research network on constitutions and
     markets (GCRF, 2019)
 •   Craig: with education, linguistics, sociology and the creative arts, “Researching Multilingually
     at Borders” project led by University of Glasgow College of Arts (one of the largest ever
     projects funded by the AHRC, 2014-2017)
 •   McCarthy: with education, philosophy and sociology, interdisciplinary network on collective
     worship in schools (AHRC, 2014-2015)
 •   Mair: with social policy (ESRC, “All Settled” project, 2013) (Nuffield, “Built to Last” project,
     2016), on divorce law reform; with history, on religion in the law and constitution of Scotland
     (Humanist Society Scotland, 2016)
 •   Moncrieff: with an artist and architect, to develop new transdisciplinary research methods
     (Independent Social Research Foundation, 2020).

 4.7 Responsiveness to national and international priorities

 Significant examples of responsiveness to national and international priorities include
 Fletcher and Busby’s establishment of the Scottish Universities’ Legal Network on Europe
 (SULNE) as a response to the Brexit referendum. SULNE was initially supported by the ESRC
 Impact Acceleration Account, which helped it secure ongoing funding from the Royal Society of
 Edinburgh and Amnesty International/Legal Education Foundation. This enabled it to hold four
 knowledge exchange seminars on the consequences of Brexit (in collaboration with the Scottish
 Parliament and Equality and Human Rights Commission) and provide 12 position papers, with
 independent advice for civic groups. It has produced eight Brexit videos and nine open access


                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 briefings containing citizen-focused information for those affected by Brexit, helping them to
 navigate issues such as immigration status and employment rights.

 Dukes’ ERC funded Work on Demand project focuses on the rapidly growing ‘gig’ economy, in
 which traditional employment protections are notably absent. Part of the project involves fieldwork
 with participants and external stakeholders, aimed at identifying a new paradigm of employment
 protection for workers in this area.

 We have responded to the challenges of the global pandemic, e.g., members of the LRPP group
 provided advice to the Scottish Government about safely resuming criminal trials; members of the
 GCILS secured funding from the ESRC IAA to examine how litigation could shape post-COVID
 decisions; members of the corporate and financial law group held a webinar with academics and
 practitioners to address debt sustainability and the preservation of financial stability.

 4.8 Wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base

 Over the review period:

 •   Editorships: 14 colleagues were editors in chief of peer-reviewed journals, book series or
     yearbooks.

 •   Editorial boards: 28 colleagues were – in addition to those who were journal editors in chief
     – members of the editorial boards of 42 peer-reviewed journals.

 •   Peer review of outputs: 54 colleagues were peer reviewers for academic journals or
     monographs published by academic publishers.

 •   Peer review of grant applications: 33 colleagues peer reviewed grant applications for
     funding bodies including the AHRC, ESRC, ERC, European Commission, Leverhulme Trust
     and Nuffield Foundation.

 •   Prizes: ten colleagues authored outputs that won or were shortlisted for prestigious prizes
     including the Birks Prize for Outstanding Legal Scholarship (Cooper, Devaney, Iljadica), best
     article in the Journal of Contemporary Roman Dutch Law (Esser), the Mauro Cappelletti Prize
     for best doctoral thesis in comparative law (Pavlou), best paper prize at the 2019 EURAM
     Conference (Sergakis), SLSA Socio-Legal Theory and History Prize (Dukes, runner-up), World
     Competition Young Writers Award (Thepot); Gottlob prize for best doctoral thesis (Zysset).

 •   Peer review colleges: three colleagues were members of the AHRC Peer Review College
     (Farmer, Finlay, Godfrey); one was a member of the ESRC Peer Review College (Busby).
     Sergakis and Goldoni were members of the UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships Programme
     Peer Review College.

 •   Learned societies: Seven colleagues are fellows of learned societies (or similar): Chalmers
     (FRSE), Cooper (FRSA); Dukes (RSE Young Academy of Scotland); Farmer (FBA); Finlay
     (FRHistS; FSA Scot); Godfrey (FRHistS); Tomkins (FRSE). Tams and Chalmers were both
     members of the RSE Young Academy of Scotland.

 •   Research degree examination: 29 colleagues examined research degrees at 54 different
     universities (24 UK, 30 international).

 We value these individual recognitions but, even more importantly, they are testament to the
 collegial, collaborative community of engaged research that has been, and is continuing to be,
 forged by the Unit. In this way, we contribute to the research base for civic, national and
 international society.



                                                                                            Page 21
