Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of York

 Unit of Assessment: 26 - Modern Languages and Linguistics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit structure and context
 The Department of Language & Linguistic Science is a world-leading centre for research in
 linguistics, known for its innovative work in the study of language as a structured symbolic
 system in its social, cultural and cognitive context. Our strength is a broad and cross-disciplinary
 approach that privileges no one theoretical framework. Our research strengths include these
 thematic areas: (i) language systems: the traditional ‘core’ fields that focus on linguistic
 structure; (ii) language in the world: the external properties of language as a communicative
 system, from interaction to sociolinguistics to language change; and (iii) psycholinguistics:
 internal psychological aspects, including processing, production and learning. We are committed
 to the integration of theoretical advances with rigorous empirical investigation using a diversity of
 methods. This stance places us at the leading edge of current developments in linguistics, which
 favour multi-faceted, mixed-methods approaches. We strive to ensure that our research will
 make a difference outside of academia by pursuing opportunities for impact, particularly in the
 forensic, clinical and educational domains. We currently have 21 staff on academic, research
 and teaching (ART) contracts, 2 on externally-funded research-only contracts, and 46 registered
 PhD students. Within the three thematic clusters, our research is conducted through several
 research groups. This overall organisation underpins our strategies for staff recruitment,
 research student recruitment, and research activities. The cluster outlines below indicate core
 staff, but as Figure 1 shows, the intentional intersection between groups means that each has a
 larger critical mass. Our submitted outputs represent the activities of all groups. Further, two
 research centres are the focus of major activities across groups and across the institution (see
 1.2 and 1.5).

 Language systems (7 core staff)
 This cluster involves research groups in Phonetics & Phonology and Morphology, Syntax &
 Semantics, with connections to typology and language evolution. We have an increasing focus
 on comparative and historical cross-linguistic research, especially involving lesser-studied and
 typologically diverse languages, and the testing of formal theoretical predictions against new
 datasets or corpora. New datasets have been developed during the REF period through the
 ERC project LanGeLin (PI Longobardi, 2012-18) and the ESRC project IVAr (Intonational
 Variation in Arabic; PI Hellmuth, 2011-17).

 Language in the World (12 core staff)
 This cluster comprises the long-standing research groups in Forensic Speech Science (FSS; 3
 staff), Sociolinguistics (4 staff) and History of English (2 staff), and an Interaction group
 focussed around Conversation Analysis (3 staff). FSS draws on our strengths in Phonetics &
 Phonology and Sociolinguistics, while opening up new datasets for sociolinguistic studies into
 accent and identity in the ESRC project The Use and Utility of Localised Speech Forms (PI
 Llamas, Co-I Watt, 2016-19).

 Psycholinguistics (4 core staff)
 Our research groups in this cluster include Early Language Development and Second
 Language Acquisition, and a group in Language and Speech Processing and Production
 established during the REF period. Our goal to have a stronger basis in more advanced
 experimental methods has been achieved by new hires (see (P1) below). Almost all research in
 this cluster intersects by design with Language Systems (e.g. an ESRC project on the
 acquisition of morphology in Eegimaa, an endangered Atlantic language spoken in Senegal (PI
 Brown, Co-I Vihman, 2017-20)).



                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 1. Thematic clusters of research groups: Language systems (middle), Language in the
 world (top, right), Psycholinguistics (left), and their interconnections.

 1.2 Research objectives and developments since 2014

 Following REF2014 we foregrounded 4 research objectives which we have fulfilled as outlined:

 [1] to expand in specific areas (Interaction, Psycholinguistics)

 Interaction (Conversation Analysis) was identified as an emergent area in 2014. This group has
 grown through new staffing (Kendrick, 2016; Drew, 2018) and forms the lead on the cross-
 faculty Centre for Advanced Studies in Language and Communication (CASLC), administered
 through our department (see 1.5).

 Through recruiting Grillo (2016) we strengthened our research in language and speech
 processing and production, leading to more cross-group opportunities for experimental work. We
 restructured our lab space and invested in state-of-the-art equipment (2018). These
 infrastructure investments along with the strategic hire of an Experimental Officer (Sloggett,
 2019) have advanced our capabilities in high-calibre empirical design and analysis, and ensure
 a strong position for our empirical research over the medium term. Supported by this investment
 we are creating a new interdisciplinary PhD in Psycholinguistics, partnering the Departments of
 Psychology and Education.

 [2] to adapt in specific areas of rapid change (FSS)

 A renewed and technologically advanced commitment in 2015 to FSS to embrace rapidly-
 evolving new technologies for measuring or quantifying acoustic properties of speech and

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 speaker identification, through new staff hires (French, Hughes, Harrison), and the creation of
 constructive partnerships with technology companies Nuance, Aculab and Phonexia using
 advanced software for speaker identification. Research to assess the reliability of automatic
 methods was central to the design of the AHRC project Voice and Identity: Source, Filter,
 Biometric (PI Foulkes, 2015-19). These expansions and changes in staffing have been matched
 with investment in labs and infrastructure (see 3.3 and 3.4).

 [3] to expand comparative and typological research

 The establishment of the Centre for Linguistic History & Diversity (2013) enabled a flourishing of
 studies in typology, language diversity and language change, focussed on the Morphology-
 Syntax-Semantics group and its various intersections. Through this Centre, we have attracted
 funding on several major grants (AHRC, ESRC, Leverhulme Trust; see 3.1). A recent priming
 grant Events and Kinds: Theory and Acquisition addresses the formal typology of experiential
 constructions paired with experiments on their acquisition in different languages.

 [4] to engage with a wide range of research funders

 Our research income was on an upward trajectory towards the end of the last REF period and
 has remained strong; we secured major grant income within and across the 3 thematic clusters.
 In the REF period up to summer 2020 our research income totalled £4,089,510. Our strategy to
 engage with a wide range of funders has yielded funding from AHRC, British Council, ESRC,
 Australian Research Council, British Academy, ERC, Leverhulme Trust, NIHR, Newton Fund,
 Swiss National Science Foundation, a wider portfolio than in REF2014.

 We have recruited PhD students in every research group (see 2.4). The Department is part of
 the successful bid for the White Rose College of the Arts and Humanities DTP (WRoCAH;
 funded in 2013 by AHRC, renewed five further years in 2018). Additionally through WRoCAH we
 have a joint AHRC-industry PhD with Aculab, a speech software company.

 1.3 Current research strategy

 Based on the position just described, we renewed our Research Strategy in 2016, built around
 these three principles, which are presented briefly here, but which inform our approach to
 research, impact, and infrastructure.

 (P1) Theoretical innovation coupled with empirical rigour:
 (a) to continue to explore lines of research which develop interactions across our research
 clusters, and to prioritise interdisciplinary research which cuts across traditional boundaries, and
 (b) to build a stronger experimental basis of skills and practice in our research.

 (P2) Increase the impact and outreach of our research beyond academia:
 (a) through identifying and strengthening partnerships for impact activities based in our impact
 themes (see 1.4.2), and
 (b) and developing outreach through Continuing Professional Development and Knowledge
 Exchange (see section 4).

 (P3) Ensuring a sustainable future for linguistics research, in terms of:
 (a) robust paths for staff recruitment and development, mechanisms to provide opportunities for
 all staff, post-graduate research (PGR) support and training, developing a culture in which
 equality, diversity and inclusion are embedded (see section 2);
 (b) appropriate lab spaces or study spaces for all (see 3.3); and
 (c) continuing to engage with a wide range of funders to support the first two principles.




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.4 Aims for impact

 The overarching aim for impact in our Research Strategy has been to establish a culture in
 which every member of academic staff is aware of ways of achieving impact through their
 academic endeavours, which we have achieved through the structures described immediately
 below. Applications for research leave (see 2.2) include a section on impact generation, so that
 impact is a routine part of all planned research activity. Our strategy for the impact itself is to
 align our research outcomes into three impact themes (1.4.2), developing and consolidating
 relationships with partners.

 1.4.1 Support for impact

 We have 3 layers of support for impact: our Impact Officer, the Department Research
 Committee (DRC), and the Humanities Research Centre (HRC), which support staff in
 developing pathways to impact as part of grant proposals, or in developing new lines of impact
 from existing research. Impact is firstly coordinated and supported by a dedicated Impact
 Officer, who is a member of the DRC. The Impact Officer role is credited with 165 hours per
 annum (10% of working time) in our workload model. The role involves providing guidance and
 support for the development of impact, embedding impact into funding applications, the delivery
 of impact activities such as workshops, and the consolidation of impact activities into Impact
 Case Studies.

 Significant support for impact from initial conception to capturing and measuring outcomes and
 engagement is provided through the HRC, which promotes a broad culture of impact across the
 Faculty of Arts & Humanities. We work closely with two Research Impact Managers, who
 provide overarching and individualised support for impact, including planning for, identifying,
 tracking and evidencing impact in research projects, and the development of impact case
 studies. Since 2017 the team has been augmented by a Faculty Impact Administrator who
 supports individual impact projects especially around evaluation, impact tracking and collecting
 evidence of impact. The HRC brings a significant body of expertise in evaluating public
 engagement and knowledge exchange activities, and administers a faculty-level internal impact
 accelerator fund aligned to the AHRC’s disciplinary remit.

 Our Impact Case Studies (ICSs) have been developed through the support above, during the
 REF period. Each ICS lead member of staff is also allotted 165 hours of workload, to reflect the
 leadership work required to develop the impact. Financial support for impact is partly from
 funded research projects, and partly from internal impact acceleration funds, through which we
 have committed £46,011 to our impact activities.

 1.4.2 Impact themes
 Our 2016 Research Strategy identifies three primary impact themes, through which we have
 advanced several lines of impact. These areas for our impact activities are designed to align well
 with the institution’s interdisciplinary research themes of Culture and Communication, Health
 and Well-being and Justice and Equality.

 Language and Education: Our approach has two strands. First, we partner teachers of A-Level
 English language, developing a portfolio of research-led materials to aid them, and developing
 ongoing relationships with them to provide better access to linguistic data, research values and
 research practice. The development of this theme has taken us beyond our current set of
 relationships, to students and a wider audience, through the development of a MOOC (Accents,
 Attitudes and Identity), reaching 3800 active learners so far.

 Second, we have worked with Cambridge International to update and refine the curriculum of
 their A-Level English Language. As a diagnostic of the reach of this work, the revised exam was
 taken in 2018-19 and 2019-20 by a total of over 55,000 students in over 100 countries.
 Outcomes of this work form our ICS on “English Language”.


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Language and Communication: in 2014 we outlined this theme as influencing practices of
 health care professionals in their interactions with patients. We developed this work to contribute
 to the Research Theme Health and Well-being, taking advantage of institutional funding and
 support. A team involving Ogden developed an assessment questionnaire for emotional
 difficulties available to children and adolescents in British Sign Language (BSL), the first in any
 sign language. It transforms access to diagnostic tools in mental health for users of BSL,
 partnering with the National Deaf Child and Adolescent Mental Health Service and the Child
 Oriented Mental Health Intervention Centre. The BSL translation has served as a model for the
 adoption of the same process of translation into American Sign Language and Norwegian Sign
 Language.

 Language and Justice: our work in Forensic Speech Science is world-leading and has been an
 area of adaptation and growth (see 1.2). Our strategy is to extend our impact with our ever-
 expanding links and growing reputation in this field; our other ICS is drawn from parts of our FSS
 research. First, at the (inter-)national regulatory level, working with the Forensic Science
 Regulator, the Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology, and the Home Office, we have
 communicated our research findings to inform and influence regulatory practices in forensic
 science. Second, we have mounted CPD courses for training of law enforcement professionals
 to incorporate audio evidence through both traditional linguistic analysis and by automated
 systems (see further, 4.2).

 Under this theme, we have developed two new areas. One involves the practice of Language
 Analysis in the Asylum Process’ (LAAP), using linguistic evidence for cases of disputed or
 unknown nationality. The other generalises from speech to multimodal perception, investigating
 connections between facial and vocal characteristics with regard to individual identity and others’
 perception. The further goal is to evaluate the capability of machine-learning algorithms inside
 recognition systems (e.g. at airports) to achieve equal or superior performance relative to that of
 human analysts.

 1.5 Interdisciplinary research

 Following strategic principle (P1) we have expanded our interdisciplinary work, evident in key
 publications such as Llamas et al. 2016, “Estimating the Relative Sociolinguistic Salience of
 Segmental Variables in a Dialect Boundary Zone”, Watt et al. 2018, “Audiovisual Integration in
 Social Evaluation”, and Longobardi et al. 2020, “Formal Syntax and Deep History”.

 Interdisciplinary research activities are supported through the HRC (see 1.4.1, 2.4, 3.2.2), the
 cross-faculty Centre for Advanced Studies in Language and Communication (CASLC), and the
 Centre for Research in Language Learning and Use in the Department of Education, which
 forms part of our psycholinguistics network. We also have joint projects on multimodal
 perception and early language development with colleagues in Psychology, Electronic
 Engineering, and Computer Science, and participate in 2 consortia applying for EPSRC funding.

 CASLC is an interdisciplinary centre involving staff from Education, Health Sciences, Language
 & Linguistic Science, Psychology, Social Policy & Social Work and Sociology. It is the locus of
 our research in Interaction and Conversation Analysis. We administer the associated degree
 programme PhD in Language & Communication, which has led to a larger and more active PhD
 community. CASLC attracts visiting scholars and PhD students from around the world (Algeria,
 Brazil, China in 2019-20). Drew participates in the project Enhancing the quality of psychological
 interventions (EQUITy, 2018-2022, NIHR); see section 4.2.

 1.6 Open research and research integrity

 We are committed to participating in the open research environment, following the institution’s
 Statement on Open Research which places emphasis on making all stages of research activity
 inclusive and open [IES:15-16]. Our departmental open access strategy was established in 2018
 and includes:

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    ●   Encouraging staff to publish in dedicated open-access journals (e.g. Glossa) or with
        open-access publishers (e.g. Language Sciences Press, White Rose University Press).
    ●   If gold access for articles is not available, promoting routes to green access (e.g. using
        the White Rose Research Online open repository).
    ●   Making corpora and datasets publicly accessible where possible (e.g. our submitted
        database Intonational Variation in Arabic).

 The Department Research Committee (DRC) acts as a guiding and enabling mechanism to
 ensure research excellence and quality, and has oversight for research integrity. In 2012 we
 founded our own Ethics committee to serve the particular needs and challenges of linguistic
 research. The committee comprises staff, postgraduates, and lay members. It reviews and
 monitors all research proposals and plans for data management for both staff- and student-led
 research, holding to the highest standards of data collection, storage, and management
 [IES:17]. The committee is autonomous within the department, and reports to DRC, then
 upwards at faculty-level and centrally within the university. The Department is compliant with the
 UUK Concordat (see 2.3) to support Research Integrity, and participates in the institutional
 Research Integrity Forum [IES:14].

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy

 Staffing policy is informed by our strategic aim to maintain or strengthen our research clusters and
 promote high level interaction for research and impact between them (see 1.3). We place
 particular emphasis on constant improvement to the research base in empirical and experimental
 methods, with these hires in the REF period: Language Systems: Phonetics & Phonology
 (Bailey, Chodroff); Language in the world: Forensic Speech Science (French, Hughes,
 Harrison); History of English (Zehentner (2017-2020)); Interaction (Kendrick); Sociolinguistics
 (Childs); Psycholinguistics: Language processing & production (Grillo, Sloggett). The strategy-
 led hires of 7.2 FTE new ART staff over the REF period have resulted in a head-count increase
 of 3 women and 5 men since 2014.

 All category A staff are on open contracts (except one, whose position covers a secondment,
 2018-2022). All category A appointments since 2012 have been at Lecturer level, apart from
 French, a fractional strategic professorial appointment (0.2 FTE in 2015). As part of our
 emphasis on empirical and experimental methods we have hired new staff who are not category
 A (Sloggett, Harrison, see section 3) to advance our research and impact agendas, and we have
 significantly developed our infrastructure during the REF period to support their work (see 3.3).

 2.2 Staff recruitment and development

 Staff recruitment has been driven by the targeted expansions in research groups as just
 described. Historically in our department male staff have outnumbered females in the ART
 ranks. We reviewed our internal procedures in 2016 and set up mechanisms to address
 inequalities in all aspects of department activity, to promote a more inclusive culture. We made
 changes in our mechanisms for Recruitment, Career Development and Research Leave (see
 below), and we have been actively involved with the institution’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 strategy [IES:35-36], both in terms of ensuring best-practice in our internal procedures, and in
 preparing an application for a Bronze-level Athena SWAN accreditation. All staff participate in
 online Equality, Diversity & Inclusion (EDI) training; staff with major management or decision-
 making responsibilities receive training in unconscious bias before taking up their roles.

 The process of recruitment is guided by principles of EDI. Job announcements are specifically
 worded to encourage female applicants and applicants from traditionally underrepresented
 groups, and make specific reference to possibilities for flexible working. We aim for gender parity



                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on all recruitment panels. All staff are required to take unconscious bias training before joining a
 panel, and from 2019 each panel has an external observer/commentator on implicit bias.

 We have a long-standing “family-friendly” culture in the department with regard to flexibility in
 working hours or overall FTE, via open-channel communication with the Head of Department.
 Our departmental scheduling of meetings, research groups, and colloquia is designed to allow
 for maximal participation – no formal meetings running after 4pm, except for our weekly
 colloquia (4-5:30pm). It is part of standard institutional procedure to support staff in flexible or
 remote working, according to their various circumstances. Staff may submit a “constraints” form
 annually to flex their timetabled hours (primarily teaching) around family or other
 commitments/needs, and many exercise this option. Staff may also flex their FTE to better suit
 their needs outside of the workplace.

 Career development is supported by (i) an institutional framework of Performance Expectations
 for each academic grade, (ii) annual Performance and Development Review (PDR), and (iii) our
 internal Promotions Panel (see below). The Performance Expectations are aligned with the
 criteria for promotion, and the PDR has a specific component for the expression and discussion
 of career aspirations and pathways to support them. Career development for fixed-term staff is
 treated identically to that for open contract staff, relative to the time frame of appointment. Senior
 staff take a guiding role in advising the HoD when opportunities arise for staff secondments both
 within the university and externally.

 The department set up a formal internal Promotions Panel in 2018, balanced for gender and
 academic area, to provide a more visible focus for the process and encourage staff, and to
 provide parity and fairness across the department. The panel provides support, guidance and
 calibration relative to career stage for all staff. Since its establishment, annual applications for
 promotion more than doubled across the department, essentially balanced for gender. Of ART
 staff, four Lecturers (two men, two women) have advanced to Senior Lecturer, and four Senior
 Lecturers (two men, two women) have advanced to Professor during the REF period.

 Our departmental Workload Model factors in a proportion of research time for all ART staff. In
 addition to protected time during regular terms, research-active staff are eligible for 6 months’
 research leave after 3 years of regular contractual work. Staff who have had major
 administrative roles in the unit or the institution may be eligible for a longer period of research
 leave at the end of their administrative term.

 Through these mechanisms, and through EDI training and guidance specifically for staff involved
 in REF planning and decision-making, in line with the Institution’s Code of Practice, REF-related
 decision-making has been sensitive to different demographic dimensions across the staff. We
 have made decisions regarding outputs based entirely on assessed quality, and further analysis
 suggests that we are achieving good balance with regard to gender in our research
 environment: at the census date, 41% of our staff (FTE) are female, who account for 46% of the
 submitted outputs.

 2.3 ECRs and PDRAs

 All category A staff (including fixed-term) participate in the institution’s training programme Post-
 Graduate Certificate of Academic Practice, which provides skills to support professional
 development and help staff find different ways to contribute to their academic unit. In our
 department, new staff are associated with the activities of the relevant research groups and are
 assigned an Academic Mentor, who provides an independent point of contact during the
 probation period, with termly meetings. In conjunction with DRC, the Mentor guides new staff to
 and through research training opportunities, such as the Grant Writing Bootcamp run by the
 institution’s Research Theme Champions [IES:4]. Up to mid-2020, three of our early career staff




                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 have participated, leading to two UKRI grant proposals so far. The effectiveness of our
 mentoring of junior staff is supported by their profile of grant applications and scholarly outputs.

 The University received the European Commission’s HR Excellence in Research award in 2010
 and retained this award in 2018, in recognition of a commitment to the implementation of the
 principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers [IES:27-28]. Our
 department’s action plan, developed in 2015, follows institution-level practice and further
 supports career development through two departmental initiatives. All PDRAs have an annual
 Performance and Development Review (see 2.2), with a designated member of senior academic
 staff who is not on their project. The designated senior staff member has an overview of all of
 the PDRAs’ experiences, and feeds relevant information to the Department Management Team
 at the annual overview of PDRs.

 We have had an average of 5 PDRAs each year of the REF period. We have a strong and
 continuing culture of helping PDRAs on to new posts, or exploring further research support at
 York by guiding them to submit grant applications as their project work comes to completion. 17
 PDRAs have started employment with us since 2013. Of the leavers, several have secured
 permanent ART posts or posts in government offices, two have remained at York in other roles,
 and one (Gully) has her own BA Postdoctoral Fellowship (2019-22).

 2.4 PGR training and supervision

 We run three PhD programmes: Linguistics, Language & Communication, and Applied
 Linguistics (opened in 2016; shared with Education). We also offer an MA by Research in
 Linguistics. Our incoming cohort of PhD students averages 8-10 per year, having risen to this
 level towards the end of the last REF period; in this REF period our graduates have gone on to
 permanent jobs in academia, industry and government offices in the UK, Ireland, Europe, Asia,
 and North and South America.

 We have faced challenges from shrinking funding sources, but have maintained our target
 intake, gaining studentship support during the REF period from: AHRC/WRoCAH,
 AHRC/Collaborative Doctoral Award with Aculab, ESRC/White Rose DTP, ESRC/White Rose
 DTP Advanced Quantitative Methods, Wolfson Foundation, Sasakawa Foundation, University
 China Scholarship, and the University Overseas Scholarship. We have also offered 3 full PhD
 scholarships supported by department-internal funds, and will offer 3 more through a specific
 bequest, which will be focussed on research involving Africa.

 PGR students meet with their supervisor regularly, at a minimum of 8 times per year. Each
 student also has a larger Thesis Advisory Panel which meets twice a year to monitor progress
 and quality of the supervision. Since 2016, PhD students follow a system of progression with
 formal reviews of progress at 12 and 24 months for full time students. The progression panel is
 independent of the supervisory panel, and assesses whether the student has met the university
 criteria, making formal recommendations as necessary regarding student progression.

 In the department we provide core skills training for all our PGR students. To bring together all
 incoming students and establish a sense of community, we run a weekly First Year Doctoral
 Seminar. This covers our activities across our three thematic clusters, as well as imparting
 research and study skills. All students access our Research Training Seminar, a methods-based
 year-long module for all postgraduates. In line with our aim to raise the level of experimental
 design, methods and statistical analysis to the highest level (Principle P1), we have enhanced
 the training provision so that each doctoral student has a dedicated advisor for statistical
 analysis. Our high-level skills training is complemented by the central Research Excellence
 Training Team which provides support for all PGRs in developing key transferable skills.

 PGR students are aligned into our research groups and participate in research group meetings,
 and the departmental colloquium. These provide key training opportunities and the chance to

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 discuss the work of leading researchers face-to-face, as well as giving the opportunity for some
 to co-present at conferences and co-publish with staff. Over the REF period we have 17 joint
 publications in refereed outlets that we would grade 2* or better (9 staff publishing with 15
 students). Our postgraduate students run the in-house publication York Papers in Linguistics
 and host their own annual conference PARLAY which has run since 2013. We hold two PG
 Presentation Days per year, at which our PG community gathers, along with academic staff, to
 view students’ posters or listen to students’ research presentations. Students receive oral
 feedback on the poster and written feedback on the presentations.

 Through the different research groups, more subject-specific training is provided. For example,
 the CASLC group hold weekly data sessions for staff and students and offer training workshops
 in Conversation Analysis; Ogden offers weekly phonetics training sessions for PG students.
 Other groups, such as FSS, Syntax, Second Language Acquisition, and Early Language
 Development, hold regular training or discussion sessions for groups of students in those areas.

 Our students are part of a broader PGR community which is vigorously supported by the HRC
 (see 3.2.2). The HRC administers the WRoCAH DTP, through which some PhD students
 receive support, and all students may benefit from the various WRoCAH-based training
 programmes. The HRC offers a full programme of training sessions, on writing and publishing,
 grant applications, careers, and research ethics. From its faculty-wide remit, the HRC offers
 interdisciplinary project grants encourage students to take initiatives, design and deliver
 activities (reading groups, symposia, exhibitions, schools workshops, engagement projects,
 research showcases, conferences) and to see themselves as contributing to the wider
 community of researchers.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 We have maintained a high level of research income over the REF period. We aim to support
 research activities though protected research time, guided research support, and investment in
 physical and technical infrastructure commensurate with our research aims.

 3.1 Research income

 Our research income was on an upward trajectory towards the end of the last REF period and
 has remained strong. In the REF period up to the end of FY19-20 our research income totalled
 £4,089,510, averaging £584,216 per annum which equates to £30,037 per submitted FTE.

 Research has flourished under the umbrella of the Centre for Linguistic History & Diversity
 (funded initially by a seed grant of £60,000 from the University 2013-16) including the major
 grants Languages Genes Lineages (PI Longobardi, 2012-18, ERC), Combining Gender and
 Classifiers (Co-I Brown, 2013-15, AHRC), Matches and mismatches in Nominal Morphology and
 Agreement: Learning from the Acquisition of Eegimaa (PI Brown, 2017-20, ESRC), VP
 Topicalisation in Languages of Eurasia (PI Sells, 2018-19, Leverhulme Trust), and Feast or
 Famine: Confronting overabundance and defectivity in language, (Co-I Brown, 2020-23, AHRC).
 Other major projects in the period are Pluralised Mass Nouns as a Window to Linguistic
 Variation (PI Tsoulas, 2016-19, Leverhulme Trust), Voice and Identity: Source, Filter, Biometric
 (PI Foulkes, 2015-19, AHRC), The Use and Utility of Localised Speech Forms (TUULS) (PI
 Llamas, 2016-19, ESRC), Accent Bias in Britain (ABB) (Co-I Watt, 2017-21, ESRC) and
 Intonational Variation in Arabic (PI Hellmuth, ESRC, 2011-17).

 Funded projects drive the research which feeds into our lines of impact (see 1.4.2), and provide
 financial support for impact generation. Our ICS on “English Language” is based on the research
 of several staff, including some supported by AHRC and Swiss National Science Foundation.
 Our ICS on FSS has drawn on funding to 3 major AHRC and ESRC grants.



                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2 Support for research

 3.2.1 Unit Level

 Our Departmental Research Committee (DRC) provides support for all aspects of research. It is
 composed of staff representing different research groups and career stages, balanced for
 gender, and one post-doctoral researcher, and meets at least once per term. DRC leads on
 monitoring research quality and integrity, reviewing and revising strategy, awarding research
 leave, and supporting staff in the development of outputs and grant applications. It reviews each
 research leave application, and typically endorses and focusses on a small number of
 achievable outcomes and outputs with the highest research effectiveness. Major research
 outputs and all grant proposals go through internal peer review, directed by DRC.

 The practice of our research is supported first by departmental mechanisms. Research groups
 have three hours of dedicated meeting time (never used for teaching) one day a week, with
 several research spaces available (see 3.3). Some staff use this slot for quiet-time writing. All
 staff have an annual research allowance of £500; other institutional funds are available
 competitively. Staff increase their allowances with “bankable” funds generated through grant
 applications and awards, via a dedicated research support line in the annual department budget.
 These funds are typically used for networking, hiring research support staff, or for extra
 experimental participants.

 3.2.2 Humanities Research Centre

 In addition to our research groups and DRC, research support for our staff is provided at faculty
 level through the HRC [IES:46], to which we contribute as one of eight departments in the
 Faculty of Arts & Humanities. As part of our department’s commitment to the HRC, Ogden is
 currently serving as Director of the Humanities Research Centre, and Associate Dean for
 Research (2018-22). He plays a guiding role in bringing forward cross-departmental and
 interdisciplinary research opportunities, and gives linguistics a prominent position in the faculty’s
 research agendas.

 The HRC has expanded its staffing to include a senior research coordinator, a research
 coordinator and a research development manager. These staff provide key input and information
 from inception to completion of a research project, identify key funding opportunities, work on all
 aspects of proposal development, including lines of impact, work on all budgetary matters, and
 organise mock interviews.

 For the postgraduate community, the HRC provides a suite of training and networking events,
 and has workspaces for 126 postgraduate students across the Faculty. There is support for third
 year PhD students through the HRC Doctoral Fellowships Competition, and HRC offers
 Postdoctoral Fellowships to recent York graduates, providing personal workspace, access to
 research support and a modest research grant.

 3.3 Research infrastructure and facilities

 Moving forward the agendas in our Research Strategy, we appointed Sloggett in 2019 to the
 newly-created academic support role of Experimental Officer, promoting experimentally-oriented
 interaction between the clusters of Language Systems and Psycholinguistics. Harrison (0.3FTE)
 brings additional technical expertise to our teaching, training and research in FSS.

 Over the REF period we have invested considerably in our infrastructure, from external and
 internal funds. An investment of £80,000 created a new, larger and near-professional quality
 recording studio/soundproof room to replace the old recording studio, and a further £5,000
 funded a new video analysis lab (supporting our developing research in Interaction), as well as a
 portable interaction lab. Much of our equipment expansion has come through University priming

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funds supporting applications from early-career staff to advance their research agendas: a total
 of £73,000 supported the acquisition and installation of 2 eyetrackers (award to Grillo), and
 ultrasound tongue imaging equipment and an electromagnetic articulograph (award to Bailey,
 Chodroff). The expanded and improved facilities are part of the implementation of our group-
 level and cluster-level objectives (see 1.2, 1.3), aligned with planned changes in personnel and
 research focus.

 Our research in FSS has benefitted from a significant donation of Automatic Speech Recognition
 equipment by Nuance Communications as part of a cooperative agreement (see 3.4). The
 Psycholinguistics lab has been totally refurbished with new computers and the latest Eyelink
 eyetracker technology, with 2 eyetrackers (see above) which are used by staff in the
 Psycholinguistics cluster and the groups the cluster intersects with (see Figure 1). An eyetracker
 adapted for use with infants in the Babylab is now replaced with the latest Eyelink eyetracker
 through a successful bid for £30,000 from UKRI's World Class Labs initiative. The new critical
 mass centred around the study of Interaction has been supported by investment of internal
 resources, with a new academic meeting space and a high-specification video analysis lab.

 These particular investments are part of our research strategy (P3), facilitated in part by
 increased space made available by the University in 2016, to have appropriate lab spaces for all
 key research activities, beyond the specialist facilities described above. We created a new
 sociolinguistics lab, initially to support two ESRC-funded projects, TUULS and ABB, and a new
 syntax-semantics lab, initially to support a PDRA and 2 PhD students contributing to the
 Leverhulme Trust-funded project on mass nouns, now supporting the internally-funded project
 Events and Kinds: Theory and Acquisition.

 For broader research activities across the department, for both staff and students, we created
 our Interactive WorkSpace in 2016, which has configurable space for informal and semi-formal
 brainstorming, as well as small-medium research group meetings. All PGR students have
 access to study spaces. Within the department our PGR project room provides dedicated study
 space for up to 15 students. Other students have their workspaces in the nearby HRC.

 3.4 External partners and contributions in kind

 In 2016 we began a formal collaborative relationship with Nuance Communications, the
 international leader in speech technology for forensic and security applications. Nuance donated
 their cutting-edge automatic speaker identification and verification systems and issued 17 site
 licenses, the total having a value of at least £700,000. This technology is used in postgraduate
 and staff-led research, such as Watt et al. 2020, “Assessing the effects of accent-mismatched
 reference population databases on the performance of an automatic speaker recognition
 system”, which is part of our submission and also one ICS. It is now axiomatic that the best
 forensic speaker comparison evidence produced by Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR)
 systems involves not only measuring the degree of similarity between criminal and suspect
 recordings, but also calibrating the recorded data against a ‘relevant background population’.
 The Nuance technology has enabled us to address this question empirically and feed the results
 back directly to the forensic speech science community and security services. In return, through
 our research, Nuance receives significant user feedback, enhanced practical applicability of its
 ASR technology and its application in accent detection, access to a pool of research students,
 as well as larger potential outreach for its products through their use in our FSS CPD course
 (see 4.2).

 The department has also been gifted a set of databases originally collected by the Ministry of
 Defence, now cleared and repurposed for the benefit of the academic community. These are
 large sets of telephone-transmitted speech collected as representative samples of British
 English for evaluating speech technologies under the Home Office CONTEST programme.




                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our strategy here (P2) is to build up our national and international scholarly networks, in order to
 extend the reach and visibility of our research, to increase opportunities for funded collaborative
 research, to make societal contributions through our research, and to contribute to knowledge
 exchange.

 4.1 Networks, collaborations and partnerships

 Our key national network is the White Rose Network (Leeds, Sheffield, York), through
 which we participate in research projects with colleagues in Leeds and Sheffield. The AHRC-
 funded grant Feast or Famine: Confronting overabundance and defectivity in language
 involves Sheffield and York staff; the priming grant Events and Kinds: Theory and Acquisition
 is a recent collaboration funded primarily from York, with support from Sheffield. Through
 funding from WRoCAH, the network created the training programme Extended Learning in
 Linguistics for Postgraduates (ELLiPs), offering advanced training in phonology and syntax for
 2 years.

 International collaborations

 Much of our research is necessarily inter-institutional, based on its subject matter. We have
 long-term relationships with research institutions and groups of researchers around the world.
 Through the Centre for Linguistic History & Diversity (CLHD) we have signed Memoranda of
 Understanding with the University of Pennsylvania and the National Institute for Japanese
 Language and Linguistics (NINJAL, Tokyo). NINJAL now hosts the Old Japanese corpus
 created originally at Oxford with York input (Verb Semantics and Argument Realization in Pre-
 modern Japanese 2009-15, AHRC, Sells Co-I). Research exchanges in 2015 and (early) 2020
 have set the basis for planned collaborations to resume in 2021.

 Our research in speech, social meaning and change has produced high-quality research outputs
 through links with the MARCS Institute for Brain, Behaviour and Development (Western Sydney)
 and with the New Zealand Institute of Language, Brain and Behaviour (Canterbury), the former
 supported through an ARC grant and the latter through internal funding and a Leverhulme Trust
 visiting professorship for Jen Hay (NZILBB).

 Staff from our department contributed to the formation in 2017 of the York Interdisciplinary
 Global Development Centre (IDGC) [IES:10]. Through the AHRC Global Challenges Research
 Fund, Kerswill partners York colleagues in History, Environment and Geography, and colleagues
 in Ghana on an interdisciplinary project to investigate “Galamsey” – illegal artisanal and small-
 scale gold mining with massive environmental and human costs, involving 1m people. The
 project aims to investigate how this problem emerged and has been sustained and why it is
 progressing along an environmentally destructive and unhealthy path. The idea was initiated by
 the University of Ghana at the request of the Government of Ghana, and then developed at York
 through Kerswill’s long-standing connections to that university.

 External partners: Forensic Speech Science

 Our long-standing partnership with J.P. French Associates, which involves the mutually
 beneficial exchange of research and training, is symbiotic and unique in the country. Members of
 the Department have consulted through J.P. French Associates on various forensic cases
 involving evidence in varieties of English, French and Arabic. Our research in this area also
 informs the science and the legal practice of using speech evidence. Since 2012 French has
 been Chair of the UK Home Office Regulator’s group on Forensic Speech and Audio Analysis.
 We continue to make our expertise available to inform both regulatory and parliamentary matters
 of the quality of audio evidence.


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 External partners: The Education sector

 Our strong relationships with key stakeholders in the education sector have developed over a
 number of years. In addition to the work reported in our ICS on “English Language”, Marsden’s
 AHRC-funded Meaning in Language Learning network (MiLL) network is the basis of our
 partnerships with modern foreign language teachers. The MiLL network has 18 members around
 the UK and 4 in Europe and the US. Two key goals are to develop collaborative research
 projects that differ from existing research by incorporating insights from both theoretical
 linguistics and classroom practice and to communicate linguistic findings about language
 learning to a wider audience.

 4.2 Contribution to society and wider engagement

 We aim for our research to directly address societal issues through leveraging existing work or
 building on it in new directions.

 Facing societal challenges

 The research project Accent Bias in Britain (ABB; ESRC 2017-20) involving Watt is an explicit
 response to the 2015 call from the Social Mobility and Child Poverty Commission. The aim of the
 project is to investigate attitudes to regional accents, and the effects that accent bias may or
 may not have on access to the professions among speakers of different varieties of UK English.
 The results show that accent bias can exist, but can be overcome through the raising of
 awareness of potential unconscious bias. The project team created two interactive tutorials, one
 for professionals, such as recruiters or HR staff in law firms, and the other for students aiming
 for a career in an elite profession.

 Hellmuth responded to the British Academy Sustainable Development call, proposing a project
 on Language and Identity in Southern Sa’idi Arabic. Her research network also participated in
 Refugee Council collaboration briefings, a response to a government call via the Refugee
 Council in North Yorkshire. An outreach webpage was created in September 2018 to support
 briefings on home language maintenance in Arabic for staff, volunteers and clients of the
 Refugee Council in North Yorkshire.

 Drew participates in the NIHR-funded project EQUITy, which investigates how to improve the
 way psychological therapies are delivered by telephone. Using Conversation Analysis, the team
 will develop materials to raise awareness for both practitioners and patients as to how to make
 conversational choices which will focus on the patient’s issues, and provide patients with the
 means to describe both their conditions and clear and appropriate goals for their ongoing
 treatment.

 Keren-Portnoy’s grant Overcoming social disadvantages through reinforcement of babble in
 infants from low socioeconomic homes (BA, 2019-21) investigates whether low SES children
 can be encouraged to babble more, which will promote earlier lexical advance. The research
 involves an integral partnership with York Children’s Centres.

 Knowledge exchange (Continuing Professional Development)

 Members of the Forensic Speech Science group and staff from J.P. French Associates
 collaborate in the design and delivery of the Continuing Professional Development (CPD)
 course, which provides an introduction to forensic speech and audio analysis. It directly informs
 the professional practice of police and security services. The course has run six times, with a
 total of 61 participants (lab requirements limit the number to a maximum of 12), the majority of
 whom (c.70%) were from national and international law enforcement and security services,
 including the National Crime Agency, Ministry of Defence, and Royal Canadian Mounted Police.


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Hellmuth developed a set of CPD workshops and now the York English Language Toolkit project
 which have been central to the development of contacts and collaborations among English
 Language teachers (see our ICS on “English Language”).

 Our staff also participate in two CPD courses in Conversation Analysis, organised with
 colleagues in Sociology through CASLC. The first, “Core topics in CA”, focuses on practical,
 hands-on skills in data analysis to be applied directly to the study of naturally occurring social
 interaction and language use across a wide range of settings. Participants include postgraduate
 students and staff from departments in the UK and several other countries. The second course,
 “Communication in Medical and Healthcare Interactions”, is aimed at medical researchers,
 especially medical communication, or clinicians, and provides direct training in the application of
 Conversation Analysis to medical diagnosis.

 Broader outreach to local communities

 Locally, three of our staff have led research-based sessions for the general public at the York
 Café Scientifique (Keren-Portnoy, Ogden, Tsoulas). Keren-Portnoy has also given sessions on
 language acquisition in the Shine residential programme, supporting pupils from 21 schools
 across Yorkshire, the Humber and North East to reach their full potential. Several academic staff
 participate in school visits, talking and teaching about our field and our research. We strongly
 engage with the mission of Widening Participation around North and East Yorkshire in particular.

 In Senegal, as part of the ESRC-funded Eegimaa project, PDRA Sagna has made 16
 broadcasts on Zig FM (projected audience: 2000-5000). These broadcasts are made in
 Eegimaa, a local and endangered language; they cover a variety of topics on culture, heritage,
 and practical life knowledge. The project also develops literacy materials to promote the
 education and use of Eegimaa.

 4.3 Contribution to discipline

 As a major department we aim to contribute to the discipline through direct involvement
 nationally with the Linguistics Association of Great Britain (LAGB), and hosting major
 international conferences across a range of subject areas. At the individual level, our staff
 contribute through major editorial and review roles.

 We hosted the LAGB annual conference in 2016; also, Hellmuth served as LAGB Treasurer,
 2013-18. We have been directly involved with the UK Linguistics Olympiad for several years. We
 have further hosted a range of (bi-)annual international conferences: Workshop on Altaic Formal
 Linguistics (WAFL) 2015; UK Language Variation and Change (UKLVC) 2015; International
 Association for Forensic Phonetics and Acoustics 2016; Germanic Society for Forensic
 Linguistics 2018; Diachronic Generative Syntax (DiGS) 2018; British Association of Academic
 Phoneticians (2020; postponed to 2021). We co-organised the 28th Japanese-Korean Linguistics
 conference (2020; hosted by UCLan).

 For several years we have participated in the Advanced Core Training in Linguistics graduate
 school (ACTL). This is a discipline-specific training program for PhD students in Linguistics,
 founded in 2004 with a two-year start-up grant from the AHRC, now jointly funded by several
 institutions. Building on our commitment to this participation and our success with ELLiPS (see
 4.1), we will organise and host future meetings of the annual ACTL Summer School.

 Our staff serve on many editorial boards, of which some are: Canadian Journal of Linguistics
 (Taylor), Journal of Child Language (Vihman), Journal of East Asian Linguistics (Sells), Journal
 of Japanese Linguistics (Sells), Journal of Linguistics (Sells), Journal of Second Language
 Pronunciation (Hellmuth), Language in Society (Kerswill), Natural Language and Linguistic
 Theory (Sells), Nordic Journal of Linguistics (Sells), Oxford Linguistic Bibliographies
 (Longobardi), Pedagogical Linguistics (Marsden), Phonetica (Ogden), Research on Language

                                                                                                 Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Social Interaction (Kendrick), Semantics & Pragmatics (Zweig), Speech Communication
 (Foulkes). French is an editor of the International Journal of Speech, Language & the Law.

 In addition, several staff are members of grants and funding review bodies, including: AHRC
 Peer Review College (Brown, Sells), British Academy/Leverhulme Small Grants (Kerswill),
 ESRC Peer Review College (Hellmuth, Keren-Portnoy, Marsden, Vihman), Carnegie Trust
 (Foulkes, Vihman), Fulbright Grant Committee (Longobardi), Royal Society APEX Awards
 Review College (Longobardi). In terms of broader aspects of academic and operational
 evaluation, several staff have been part of national or international review committees,
 including: Department/Programme review: EQA Reviewer for outputs in the Faculty of
 Humanities and Social Sciences, University of Newcastle (Kerswill, 2018-19); Evaluation of
 Research in the Humanities in Norway (Kerswill, 2016-17); External Assessor, University of
 Edinburgh, English Language and Linguistics (Sells, 2017); External reviewer for proposals for
 new BA in English Language and BA in Linguistics, Queen Mary, University of London (Kerswill,
 2017); Revalidation/Review Panel (Linguistics and Communication) Ulster University (Tsoulas);
 Steering Committee International (Founding) Member, National Graduate Researcher School in
 Linguistics and Philology, Norway (Sells, 2014-17).

 Recognition of the esteem accorded to our staff is indicated by our invited keynote lectures,
 including: Biannual International Conference on the Linguistics of Contemporary English,
 University of Madison-Wisconsin (Llamas, 2015); Cambridge Comparative Syntax
 Conference (Tsoulas, 2017); Child Language Symposium (Vihman, 2015); European Society
 for Philosophy & Psychology (Estonia, Vihman, 2015); Finnish Conference of Linguistics
 (Kendrick, 2016); French Association for Cognitive Linguistics (Foulkes, 2015); International
 Association of Urban Language Studies. Japan (Kerswill, 2018); International Circle of Korean
 Linguists, Helsinki (Sells, 2017); International Seminar on Speech Production, China (Vihman
 2017); Intersubjectivity in Action Conference, Helsinki (Kendrick, 2017); Language and
 Borders: Rethinking Mobility, Migration and Space, Bristol (Llamas, 2018); Linguistic Society
 of America, Special session on Data Archiving (Ogden, 2016); Linguistic Symposium on
 Romance Languages, Toronto (Longobardi, 2018); Manchester Forum in Linguistics (Hughes,
 2019); Methods in Dialectology XVI conference, Tokyo (Kerswill, 2017); Workshop on
 Sociophonetic Variability in the English Varieties of Australia, Brisbane (Foulkes, 2018);
 Workshop on Speech Perception and Production across the Lifespan, UCL (Foulkes, 2017).




                                                                                         Page 15
