Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Sheffield


 Unit of Assessment: C-18 Law


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


1.1 Overview

Located in the Faculty of Social Sciences, the School of Law comprises a thriving, diverse and
inclusive community of legal and criminological researchers. The School’s vision is to advance the
interdisciplinary understanding of law, socio-legal studies, and criminology globally, combining
outstanding academic research with research-led teaching and pursuing societal impact to the
greatest possible extent. We encourage and support a wide range of research activity, from
individual theoretical and doctrinal scholarship to large-scale collaborative empirical studies. Our
research is fostered through three research centres: the Centre for International and European
Law (SCIEL); the Centre for Corporate and Commercial Law (SICCL) and the Centre for
Criminological Research (CCR), and through the collective activities of our research leadership
and support teams.

Interdisciplinarity is a central pillar of our identity. Researchers employed within the School since
2014 have come from a wide variety of disciplinary backgrounds, including law, psychology,
politics, philosophy, history, journalism, geography, and sociology. Each of our research centres
supports and encourages interdisciplinarity, and they serve as a focus for both staff and
postgraduate researchers (PGRs) in and beyond the School who research in these areas, thereby
cutting across the silos created by departmental structures. The School enjoys a particularly close
relationship with the Faculty interdisciplinary research institute SPERI (Sheffield Political Economy
Research Institute): 25% of our researchers are associate fellows of SPERI, one of the largest
representations from any department in the University.

1.2 Achievement of REF2014 strategy

Building on the progress evidenced in our improved performance between RAE2008 and
REF2014, we have delivered measurable results in relation to the strategic aims we set out in
2014. We have enhanced our competitiveness in grant capture: in this assessment period our
research income stands at £2.51m, a 125% increase on the previous total. Our ability to attract
funding has helped to drive a significant increase in the proportion of staff at all career stages who
are publishing excellent outputs in respected journals (e.g. Modern Law Review; Regulation &
Governance; Oxford Journal of Legal Studies; Social and Legal Studies; European Journal of
International Law; British Journal of Criminology; Theoretical Criminology). It has also facilitated
greater breadth, diversity and novelty in our impact, engagement and dissemination activities:
for example, our research has influenced legislation, policy and practice both in England & Wales
and internationally (including in Scotland, Germany and Australia); and we have produced award-
winning documentaries, live plays and curated websites based on our research. We have
recruited excellent staff at all levels from research associates on funded projects to professorial
staff, and all of our current teaching and research (T&R) staff are now on open-ended contracts,
enhancing the sustainability of excellence in our research community. We have also maintained
high standards in PGR admissions, confirmation reviews and completions, evidenced in an
average submission rate of 83% (exceeding the average for our Faculty) and in our continuing
emphasis on quality and diversity rather than quantity in admissions.

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
In 2017-18 the School reviewed its research strategy and set out to (a) clarify the specific
mechanisms underpinning the implementation and delivery of our strategic aims; and (b) introduce
a new annual action plan to focus our resources and efforts in priority areas and enable short-term
performance improvements. Thus, a high degree of continuity in our strategy is now complemented
by a more dynamic framework for ensuring ongoing performance improvement, accountability, and
swift action to address new challenges. For example, in response to changes in an increasingly
competitive external funding environment, renewing our grant capture strategy was among four
priority programmes for 2018-19, and in that year we instigated a number of actions (including
establishing the role of Deputy Research Director to lead on grant capture, written briefings on
sources of external funding for ECRs and strengthening our internal peer review process for draft
grant applications). These actions enabled us to maintain our overall trajectory of increasing
income capture.

1.3 Impact and engagement strategy

Engagement with practitioners, government bodies and user groups lies at the heart of our strategy
to promote the interdisciplinary understanding of law, socio-legal studies and criminology globally.
The School is thus committed to sharing expertise and developing the societal benefits of its high-
quality research through collaborative mechanisms including co-design and delivery of projects,
secondments and consultancy. Our strategy is based on the following pillars:

   (a) excellent foundational research in law and criminology;

   (b) targeting a range of beneficiaries across public, private and third sectors at local, national
       and international levels;

   (c) achieving different forms of impact (e.g. legislative, policy, practice); and

   (d) enhancing knowledge and confidence of staff at different career stages to enable
       engagement in impact and knowledge exchange (KE) activities.

To implement our impact and engagement strategy, we introduced the role of impact champion in
2008 and in 2014 this became a workloaded Impact Coordinator role. The importance of this role
was underlined in 2017 when we appointed to it a professor with a background in law reform at the
Law Commission for England and Wales, and in 2020 when we appointed a deputy to ensure the
sustainability of our approach to embedding impact in our research culture. This role has been
taken on by an ECR with considerable experience of working with policy partners across Europe
and beyond (e.g. OECD, Council of Europe, UN), thereby building capacity in this area. The Impact
Coordinator and Deputy are part of a research leadership team whose members work together to
deliver our strategy. The team also includes a Research Director and Deputy (the deputy leads on
grant capture); Research Staff Development Director; PGR Director and Deputy; and Ethics &
Integrity Lead. Each of these roles carries a specified workload which recognises the key
contribution they make to the School’s research environment.

The Impact Coordinator plays a vital role working with new and existing staff, at all career stages,
to enhance impact literacy and help researchers identify the impact potential of their ongoing and
planned activities. They adopt a tailored ‘consultant’ approach to achieving impact with staff at all
levels and supporting impact projects at all stages from initial inception through to monitoring and
evidencing outcomes. We emphasise impact as an integral part of our research culture by
including in our induction programme for new staff a meeting with the Impact Coordinator, the aim
of which is to identify and support potential impact activity from the outset. Existing members of



                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
staff are also routinely referred to the Impact Coordinator when that is identified as useful in the
annual appraisal process.

The aim of this approach is to equip researchers with the tools they need to put their research to
work in the world outside academia. Recent examples range from a corporate social responsibility
researcher (Rühmkorf) who used his research to collaborate with the premier German business
magazine to create a corporate social responsibility compliance ranking for the top 30 German
companies; an ECR (Kebbell) whose research was featured heavily in a recent Law Commission
consultation paper on the law relating to money laundering, and who has been co-opted onto a
high level Law Society working group in the same area; a criminological researcher (Farrall) who
has produced a film on the impact of Thatcherism for sixth-form students; a Spanish speaking
constitutional lawyer (Castillo Ortiz) who has worked with the most prestigious Spanish think tank
on Brexit; and Brexit-related health care law engagement with select committees of Parliament
(Hervey).

Our selection of impact case studies reflects the range of beneficiaries of our research. They
demonstrate high-level impact on national legislation (Scotland – Shapland; England & Wales –
Skinns), with a range of coal face practitioners (police – Skinns; restorative justice professionals
and criminal justice social workers – Shapland; health researchers and practitioners – Chico) and
NGOs (Skinns, Shapland, Chico). Going beyond high-level policymaking, the case studies exhibit a
particular, close-grained engagement with integrating research with ongoing implementation of
policy on the ground in close collaboration with professionals (Skinns, Chico, Shapland).

1.4 Research integrity and open research

The School is committed to supporting a culture that respects the importance of the ethical
dimension of social science research and in which all colleagues and PGRs have an appropriate
awareness of their obligations under relevant legal and professional frameworks. Our
criminological research in particular raises thorny ethical issues around research with vulnerable
people (recent examples include those in custody and family members bereaved by homicide) and
the potential disclosure of criminal activities by research subjects, which require ethics reviewers to
consider the extent of any duty of disclosure by the researcher. All empirical research projects led
by the School are subject to rigorous peer review by our dedicated Research Ethics Committee
(REC). The Committee includes 7-8 members with expertise in socio-legal and/or criminological
research. Members undergo University ethics reviewer training and typically spend three years on
the Committee. The REC meets annually to share experiences and discuss emerging issues, such
that members (who include ECRs) are able to develop and deepen their knowledge and
experience of conducting ethics reviews. In January 2019 this practice of reflective annual
meetings was celebrated by the University REC as an example of departmental good practice. The
School was one of the early adopters of the University online ethics system and engaged in the
pilot scheme in 2013-14, such that our REC contributed to the design of the system in terms of
functionality and content.

In 2017-18 the School secured funding from the University to facilitate externally delivered lone
worker training, which had been identified by the REC chair as a need across a number of ethics
applications from both staff and PGRs in the School. To promote awareness of good practice for
researcher safety, the Social Research Association Code of Practice for the Safety of Social
Researchers is available to staff and PGRs via online Staff and PGR Handbooks.

All PGRs in the School undertake a compulsory research ethics and integrity module, in
accordance with University policy (see also REF5a) and all staff are notified of opportunities for


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
ethics reviewer training via a weekly School e-bulletin. All research active staff have completed two
online information security training courses: Protecting Data and Protecting Personal Information.
Under the University’s research data management policy, all PGRs registered since 2019/20 have
been required to produce a data management plan as part of the confirmation review process (see
section 2) and to maintain it throughout their project. In the 2019 Postgraduate Research
Experience Survey (PRES), 91% of our PGRs agreed that their understanding of research integrity
had developed during their programme of study: an increase from 81% in 2013.

The School has also made progress toward developing an open research environment and is
committed to further developing this. Our 2014-20 research strategy established a process to
ensure routine compliance with the University’s open access (OA) requirements, and we have
subsequently moved to a system whereby all research active staff take responsibility for this
process as it relates to their own outputs. This process is outlined as part of the induction of new
staff, in our online Staff Handbook, and is reinforced via regular audits. We also provide an annual
training session on open access to our PGRs.

To ensure maximum discoverability of our research, we aim to put all outputs in White Rose
Research Online, our shared repository with Leeds and York (green route). The 384 outputs
deposited over this assessment period were downloaded over 66,000 times. This is our preferred
route, ensuring equity in publishing opportunities regardless of available funding; we also publish
outputs in fully OA journals and are supported by a faculty fund to do so, or hybrid where required
for funder compliance. Other examples of our commitment to open research can be found in
SCIEL’s recently established online working papers series, which is aimed at ensuring public
access to our research. We are actively contributing to key debates in our discipline about the
challenging interface between commitment to open research and the necessity of working with
confidential and sensitive data, for example highly classified police records.

1.5 Future strategic priorities

   •   To maintain a recruitment strategy informed by principles of equality, diversity and inclusion
       (EDI) to further diversify our staff base, and to maintain a reflexive approach to staff
       development, including by continuing our distributed leadership model that provides
       research leadership roles at all career stages.

   •   To consolidate and expand our research strengths aligned to existing research centres, in
       particular by continuing to recruit excellent researchers at all career stages who work on
       cutting edge questions that straddle two or more of our centres (e.g. illicit flows; law, justice
       and digital societies).

   •   To deepen our emphasis on interdisciplinarity by further developing collaborative projects
       with the Sheffield Political Economy Research Institute and other Faculty and University
       research centres, and by continuing to emphasise interdisciplinarity when recruiting staff.

   •   To sustain our success in research income capture and continue to support research
       excellence at all career stages by targeting an expanded portfolio of funding schemes.

   •   To enhance our public-facing approach to law and criminology by prioritising collaborative
       and open research, and by building on our existing activities with a diverse range of end
       users at local, regional, national and global levels. To support this, we will refresh our
       Impact and KE Strategy by the end of 2021.




                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   To contribute to the sustainability of the discipline by supporting non-professorial
       colleagues in their contributions to their academic communities (e.g. editing journals,
       hosting workshops and giving keynotes).

   •   To maintain a diverse, vibrant community of postgraduate students by continuing to offer
       excellent supervision and training in skills that will equip them for careers in and beyond
       academia.

   •   To sustain research excellence and wellbeing in our School by continuing to offer high
       quality support to staff and PGRs through and beyond the COVID-19 pandemic. To support
       this, we will review the pandemic’s uneven impact on staff and prioritise support (e.g.
       internal funding; study leave) to those whose research suffered the greatest disruption.


 2. People


2.1 Staffing strategy

The principal aims of our staffing strategy in this assessment period have been to (a) attract
excellent scholars to our School; (b) support and invest in all our staff with a view to enhancing the
collective overall strength and impact of our research; (c) increase the proportion of staff on open-
ended contracts, with a view to reducing this form of precarity within the sector, encouraging a
more competitive pool of applicants for vacant posts and enhancing the sustainability of excellence
in the School; and (d) enhance the diversity of our staff group.

We have made significant progress in respect of all of the above. In the assessment period the
School has attracted excellent scholars to open-ended posts at all grades, including eight
outstanding ECRs, two of whom have been recruited from our own PGR programme. Since
undertaking a review of our research centres in 2017, which reduced the number from five to three
(see section 3), we have prioritised the recruitment of researchers in corporate and commercial law
(e.g. Keren-Paz, Atkinson, Cousins) and international and European law (e.g. Bugaric, Franchini,
Pereira) and those whose research straddles two or more of our centres (e.g. Kebbell, Craven).
We have appointed 14 lecturers, 4 senior lecturers (SL) and 4 professors. Additionally, four T&R
staff have been moved from fixed-term to open-ended contracts (Lee, Rice, Sorsby, Thompson)
and a further three on fixed-term teaching contracts have been appointed to permanent T&R posts
through open competition (Benbow, Franchini, Kebbell). We have also employed six excellent
research associates on externally funded projects (Banwell-Moore, Gray, Jones, Sprawson, Smith,
Wooff) and five independent postdoctoral research fellows funded by Marie Sklodowska-Curie
(Claes, Van Camp, Wang), the Leverhulme Trust (Tomczak) and GCRF (Hsaio). Of our 36 current
T&R staff (34.5 FTE), 8 are professors, 2 are readers, 8 are SL and 18 are lecturers (of whom 8
are ECRs). All but one are on open-ended contracts.

2.2 Supporting excellent research and impact

The School uses a range of mechanisms to maximise the capacity for staff to undertake excellent
research. These include a workload model which provides a 50% time allocation for research for all
T&R staff. In addition, all researchers have access to financial support for individual research and
impact activities (see section 3), and can apply for a semester’s research leave for seven served to
allow a concentrated period of time for a major project or grant application. In the assessment
period, 40 semesters of research leave have been granted to 35 staff. This has been allocated to
lecturers (42%), SLs/readers (28%) and professors (30%); and to similar numbers of female (43%)

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and male (57%) staff. Examples of accomplishments during study leave include the completion of
monographs (e.g. Buchan; Gonzalez-Salzberg; Hayes); writing successful grant applications (e.g.
Bacon; Brown; Skinns; Kirkham; Xu); and impact development activities (e.g. Burrell; Farrall;
Shapland; Skinns). Both our workload model and our research strategy are consistent with the
encouragement of KE and impact and many of our researchers actively engage with non-academic
bodies on a routine basis within their research time (see section 4 for examples). School-level
support for researchers engaged in impact activities has included workloading dedicated time and
granting research leave, where the major component of the leave was to allow engagement with
stakeholders and ensure research achieved maximum impact in the relevant sphere (e.g.
Shapland; Taylor; Chico). The School has also facilitated the secondment of two staff to senior
data policy advisory roles at the Health Research Authority (Taylor: Chair of Confidentiality
Advisory Group, 3-days per week 2015-2018; Chico: Data Policy Advisor, 3-days per week, 2018-
present). These secondments have been instrumental in facilitating the development of one of our
impact case studies.

2.3 Staff development

Our ability to attract excellent young researchers has been complemented by dedicated support for
ECRs. In line with University policy, ECRs are initially subject to a three-year probationary period,
with the School providing individualised support from a probationary advisor and additional
protected time for research and scholarship activities throughout their probation. In 2019 a forum
for probationary advisors was established by the Research Director to support and share good
practice between colleagues in probation advisor roles in the context of the University’s
introduction of a new Academic Careers Pathway framework (see REF5a). ECRs also meet with
the Research Director as part of their induction and are prioritised for a slot in our School research
seminar series, to encourage their integration into the research community and enable them to
consider potential collaborations. As part of induction, ECRs also meet with the Impact Coordinator
and Research Deputy Director for advice and to access support in developing their impact and
securing grant funding.

The School has invested new resources in the development of all its researchers. Recognising a
need to coordinate our approach to staff development and support T&R staff to prepare cases for
promotion, the role of Research Staff Development Director was created in 2018. They have
already introduced a new mentoring scheme, supplementing the annual appraisal process and
individual research planning meetings, available to staff at all levels beyond probation. They take
an individualised approach to matching mentees with mentors that considers their specific
development needs. In the first year, 12 researchers applied (including lecturers, SLs, readers and
teaching-specialists looking to move into research) and were matched with a mentor. The role also
includes the provision of individualised support for staff planning/applying for promotion, and since
the role was created our promotion success rate stands at 100%. They have also initiated a series
of developmental workshops for ECRs, supported by our research centres. For example, in 2019
SICCL funded the inaugural half-day workshop at which three of its ECRs presented working
papers to senior academic and stakeholder discussants from outside Sheffield. In October 2020
the Director organised a panel session for all the School’s researchers on ‘Prioritising Research in
the time of Covid’ to share advice and experience.

In addition to the above, the School has, throughout the assessment period, offered individualised
support to all its research staff, including all postdoctoral fellows and research associates, via a
programme of annual meetings with senior colleagues to review their medium/long-term research
plans. Whilst the precise format of these meetings has evolved, there has been a consistent
emphasis on encouraging ambitious research and enhancing the quality of individuals’ research

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
outputs, with a view to driving up the internal strength of our research culture and substantially
increasing the proportion of staff producing internationally excellent and world-leading outputs.
These meetings have also enabled us to plan and coordinate tailored research support across the
School. Researchers at all career stages are also eligible for and encouraged to gain experience of
PGR supervision, initially by working alongside a more experienced colleague as co-supervisor.
Currently 24 staff are involved in the supervision of 45 PGRs (7 lecturers; 10 SL/readers; 7
professors).

2.4 Our PGR community

Our PGR strategy prioritises the recruitment of high-quality students pursuing diverse, original
research projects in law, socio-legal studies and criminology which accord with our areas of
substantive and methodological expertise. We welcome home and international students with
support from a range of funding sources and we aim to sustain a world-class environment for our
PGRs via the provision of high-quality supervision, excellent training and personal support, and
opportunities to become fully embedded in our research environment.

The quality of our applicants is evidenced in the securing of 12 ESRC scholarships (1+3 or +3) on
a competitive basis from the ESRC-funded White Rose Doctoral Training Partnership (WRDTP).
Prioritising the recruitment of high-quality candidates, the School has deliberately sought to
maintain a diverse community of up to 50 PGRs, which is the optimum cohort size for ensuring
intensive and bespoke training and support. We have thus maintained a vibrant and diverse
community of between 40-50 PGRs during the assessment period, around one third of whom are
non-UK nationals. In order to ensure recruitment to a range of subject areas and a diverse PGR
community, 17 School scholarships have been awarded during the assessment period and we
have contributed £724k towards PGR fees, stipends and research training support grants for 28
PGR students.

The School hosts an annual half day induction event in early October which is followed by a social
event to which staff and more established PGRs are invited. The induction introduces PGRs to the
excellent facilities available to all via the WRDTP, and to the Faculty’s Doctoral Development
Programme (DDP). Engagement with the DDP begins with a mandatory training needs analysis
which acts as a gateway to a wide range of training opportunities made available via online training
portals of the WRDTP, University and Faculty. As part of a tailored programme of training, all
PGRs must undertake a compulsory module in research ethics and integrity, as well as a
discipline-specific module which is delivered across three years. Those undertaking legal research
must also complete a module in legal research methods in their first year.

All the School’s PGRs are supervised by at least two academic staff, with whom they meet on
average every 4-6 weeks (pro rata for part-time). In addition to electronic records of supervision
meetings and annual supervisor-led reviews, PGRs complete biannual student-led progress
reports. These are reviewed by the PGR Director, who acts on any progress or wellbeing
concerns. PGRs complete a confirmation review process in accordance with University policy (see
REF5a). In the 2019 PRES survey, 95% of our PGRs agreed that they had regular/appropriate
contact with their supervisors, and that their supervisors had the skills and subject knowledge to
support their research effectively (up from 81% and 86% respectively in 2013).

All our PGRs are encouraged to join at least one of our research centres, to which they can apply
for funding to support research activities: for example the centres jointly funded a writing retreat for
15 PGRs in 2019 (5 per centre) following a successful initial event for 10 PGRs funded by CCR in
2018. The School’s Higher Degrees Committee includes PGR representatives in its membership,


                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
such that PGRs are involved in discussions and decisions that affect them, and PGRs are included
in our research away days. The School also supports an annual PGR-led conference in May,
where students present papers and invite staff (in and beyond the School) and peers to act as
respondents and/or keynote speakers. Criminology PGRs also have the opportunity to engage in a
European doctoral school, including producing a peer-reviewed chapter in a commercially
published edited collection (nine in this assessment period). Our PGRs have been involved in the
organisation of several regional and national conferences (e.g. Banwell-Moore initiated a WRDTP
socio-legal PGR conference hosted in Leeds in 2016 and at Sheffield in 2017; Davies and Yau
organised an online conference on law and technology in 2020). Through these means PGR
students not only gain excellent experience of presenting their research and of conference
organisation, but also access opportunities to build networks and develop collaborations.

Recognising the need to maximise the employability and skills development of our PGR students,
they are supported to undertake up to 180 hours of paid employment per year where they wish to
do so (pro rata for part-time), and 15-25 students per academic year take up opportunities to
deliver seminar teaching to gain skills and experience. They are encouraged and funded by us to
attend the University’s teaching assistant programme and are also supported by module convenors
whose workloaded responsibilities include proper preparation of PGRs for teaching, marking and
feedback. Students who teach are offered annual opportunities for appraisal/review/objective
setting, as well as support for applications to the HEA fellowship scheme. Several PGRs who
gained HEA Fellow/Associate Fellow accreditation whilst studying/teaching in the School during
the assessment period have gone on to secure a lectureship or teaching associate position (e.g.
Bradford, Kotzamani, Anastasiou, Stark, Udofa).

The success of our strategy is demonstrated in our sustained timely submission rates: for full-time
students registered between 2009/10 and 2015/16, an average of 83% submitted within their time
limit, which is higher than the Faculty average. It is also evident in the prestige and variation of
careers that our PGR students go on to. Some have remained in academia taking up lectureships
or research fellowships at universities including Essex, Nottingham, Surrey, Portsmouth, the Open
University and Sukhothai Thammathirat University in Bangkok. Others have pursued diverse
careers outside the sector, including in NHS management; the armed forces; the police; the civil
service (both UK and overseas); legal services; and the voluntary sector. We also achieve
excellence in student satisfaction: in the 2019 PRES survey, 86% of our PGRs reported that they
were satisfied with their overall PGR experience: up from 76% in 2013 and exceeding 81% for the
University as a whole.

2.5 Commitment to equality, diversity, and inclusion

The School is committed to values of equality, diversity, and inclusion (EDI). In order to expand our
focus on these issues, we established an EDI Committee in 2019 to monitor our performance
against the University’s EDI Strategy and embed best practices. The Committee’s membership has
a balance of gender, race, and career stage. The chair sits on the Faculty EDI Committee and the
School’s Management Board, enabling two-way communication, and has a workload allocation for
this role.

We have made good progress towards the diversification of our staff group: 47% of promoted staff
are female (three professors, two readers, three SLs) and 44% overall. Women in leadership roles
include the current Research Director, PGR Director, Deputy Impact Coordinator and Ethics
Committee Chair. Four women have also been directors of our research centres and all our
submitted impact case studies are led by women in lecturer (Chico), reader (Skinns) and
professorial (Shapland) posts. Membership of our Research Committee includes all career stages,

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
comprising two professors, two readers, five SLs and two lecturers. We have also maintained a
good gender balance in our PGR community: of PGRs admitted in the assessment period, 58%
were female and 42% male. Diversity is also evident in that at the point of admission, 35% were
aged 30 or over and a third (32%) non-UK nationals. We have also made progress with ethnic
diversity and 17% of staff are self-declared minority ethnic.

As noted above, all eligible staff are encouraged to apply for research leave, and periods of leave
(e.g. maternity, shared parental leave, buyouts from grant income) qualify toward semesters
accrued, so no-one is disadvantaged in terms of access. The School has also encouraged and
supported female staff to apply to the University’s Women Academic Returners Programme for
funding to enable continued career development following a period of parental leave. For example,
in 2020 support from this programme enabled Strumia to invest otherwise unavailable time in the
development of an application to the ERC Consolidator grant scheme.

In selecting outputs for our REF submission, we have complied with the University’s Code of
Practice, ensuring equality of opportunity for the inclusion of individuals’ outputs according to our
internal quality assessments, regardless of seniority, gender or other characteristics. Furthermore,
all members of our staff group who are involved in assessing and/or selecting outputs for
submission have completed the University’s EDI training course, going beyond what is required by
our Code of Practice.

2.6 Supporting wellbeing of staff and students

Supporting the wellbeing of our staff and PGR students is a key element of our strategy for
creating an inclusive and sustainable research community. For example, in line with the
University’s Guiding Principles on Flexible Working, the School recognises the positive impact of
flexible and/or remote working to support an inclusive research environment, to create a happy and
healthy workforce and to improve productivity. Staff at all career stages can apply for flexible
and/or remote working. As at submission, four staff had flexible working arrangements, of whom
two were women (one lecturer, two SL, one reader).

We recognise the key role of the supervisory team in supporting the individual wellbeing of PGRs,
but additional support is offered by the PGR Director, their deputy and a dedicated Student
Wellbeing Officer (appointed by the Faculty in 2020), who offer regular opportunities for PGRs to
raise wellbeing issues. They also liaise with the University’s central support services where
students have disabilities and/or mental health/other complex needs. We actively encourage the
use of leaves of absence and (where relevant) changes of candidature (e.g. from full-time to part-
time) where individual circumstances suggest that these will enhance wellbeing and/or enable a
student to successfully complete their programme of study.

In Autumn 2019, the School introduced an informal ‘buddy’ system, allowing new PGR students to
be paired with a more experienced mentor as a point of contact for informal advice on PhD
process, wellbeing, and achieving academic progress. Informal feedback from our PGR reps
suggests that those who have opted into the scheme have found it very helpful and a good way to
learn about our research culture. From 2020, we have run a series of informal drop-in coffee
mornings to strengthen and deepen relationships between PGRs, the PGR Directors and support
staff. During the COVID-19 pandemic, these were replaced by even more frequent online coffee
breaks, sometimes with a particular theme, including teaching matters and wellbeing. This gave
regular opportunities to check-in with PGRs and to assess how the pandemic was impacting on
them and their studies. PGRs have also been able to access office and IT equipment for use at
home and we have funded the purchase of equipment for those based outside Sheffield.


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our experience of supporting staff and PGRs in the pandemic motivated a reconfiguration of the
School’s leadership structures (introduced from September 2020) to now include a bespoke team
devoted to staff wellbeing and development, with two new co-directors of staff wellbeing working
alongside directors of staff development and EDI, all of whom sit on and report to the School
Management Board. The work of this team will take forward and develop, through and post-
pandemic, the support mechanisms we initiated to help colleagues manage a new and varied
range of anxieties and disruptions to normal working practices.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


3.1 Research income

Capturing research income is a core objective in the School. In the previous REF period, total
income stood at £1.11m and the School won £1.94m in new awards. In this period, the School has
overseen an increase in both figures, with total income growing by 125% to £2.51m and new
awards by 16% to £2.25m. The increase in new awards reflects two significant trends. The first is
the larger number of colleagues at all career stages applying for and winning awards. In the
previous cycle, 37 colleagues submitted 92 research funding applications, whereas in this cycle 52
colleagues submitted 164 applications. This showcases an important cultural change surrounding
research income capture, with virtually all of our research-active colleagues applying for and
winning awards. It also highlights the favourable conditions for sustaining our research income
capture success in the years ahead.

The other significant trend is the simultaneous consolidation and widening of funders we have
targeted. First, colleagues have been able to consolidate past success with UKRI funders. In this
assessment period, for instance, colleagues submitted 24 applications to the ESRC culminating in
11 awards – a 46% success rate, well-above the overall 29% success rate reported by the ESRC
from the years 2011-18. At the same time, colleagues have targeted a greater diversity of non-
UKRI funders and submitted applications to 32 different non-UKRI funders, compared to 25 in the
previous period. As such, we have enjoyed success not just with UKRI, but also with public
organisations and charities at the international, national and local levels, winning awards from the
European Commission (FP7 and Horizon 2020), British Academy, Leverhulme Trust, Nuffield
Trust, Health Research Authority, College of Policing, Police Transformation Fund, South
Yorkshire Police, University Association for Contemporary European Studies, Society of Legal
Scholars, Socio-Legal Studies Association and Legal Education Research Network. This trend
again underscores our increasingly vibrant and sustainable culture surrounding research income
capture.

3.2 Research infrastructure

Underpinning this success is our responsive and dynamic research infrastructure, which drives not
just research income capture but other areas of our research activity too, from the formulation of
ideas and production of outputs to the transfer of knowledge outside academia and the cultivation
of impact. During the opening two years of this cycle we continued to use the research
infrastructure in place at the end of the previous REF period. While this functioned to good effect,
as we approached the midpoint in this assessment period, we set in motion three notable
infrastructural reforms. First, we established a new Deputy Research Director role whose primary
tasks are to ensure our research income capture strategy remains in step with internal and external
funding environments and to guide colleagues throughout the research funding application process


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(previously these tasks were among the many duties performed by the Research Director). The
deputy reports to the Research Director, Research Committee and, by extension, the School at
large to ensure accountability and consultation in these processes.

Second, we undertook a department-wide review of our research centres, leading to a renewed
focus on the three strongest and most ambitious – SCIEL, SICCL and CCR. To foster vitality and
sustainability in these centres, the review recommended: the rotation of directorships every 2-3
years; the appointment of an ECR as deputy director on a similar rotation; the inclusion of at least
one PGR representative on each centre’s steering group; and annual planning meetings to ensure
each centre consults with its wider membership regarding future activities. These reforms have not
only facilitated better alignment between the centres and our changing research profile, but have
also empowered them to play a more responsive role in nurturing research ideas, projects, outputs
and funding applications.

Third, in collaboration with the Faculty and University, we restructured our departmental research
support services (see REF5a). Up to 2017, these services were provided through a departmental
team made up of one Research Manager and one Research Support Officer. Though functioning
perfectly well, there was concern that this arrangement – replicated in every department across the
University – limited the sharing of best practice and caused unnecessary duplication. Following a
University-wide consultation, these departmental silos were replaced by a smaller number of better
resourced Research Support Hubs serving multiple departments. Thus, in 2018 a new Hub was
established to support the Law, Politics and Sociological Studies departments. The rationale
behind this configuration is that colleagues share a broad research knowledge base, often
collaborate with one another in interdisciplinary research projects (see section 4) and target many
of the same research funders, so combining the research support services allows for a more
coordinated approach to the development and management of research activities. The Hub is run
by two Research Managers and four Research Support Officers who are available to colleagues in
the School throughout the working week and who are physically present in the School’s building
three days a week, enabling regular face-to-face discussions. As such, our present research
support services have greater capacity and are better able to access resources outside the School
compared to our services in 2014.

The coordinated activities of the Research Director and Deputy, Research Committee, Research
Centres and Research Hub – linked in with additional Faculty and University research support
services – constitute the primary research infrastructure through which our research policies are
formulated and administered. These policies can be divided into five interrelated areas.

   a) Feedback: This infrastructure provides colleagues with a number of informal settings in
      which to present and receive feedback on research ideas at various stages of development.
      These include: lunchtime seminars for draft outputs with advance circulation of materials
      and discussants (three per semester); pitch-to-peers sessions for draft funding applications,
      which are often tailored to specific schemes and/or career stages (at least one per
      semester); ‘Tea and Jeopardy’ ECR sessions (one per semester); and our subject specific
      reading groups on Foucault, Jurisprudence, Public Law and Legal Theory (ad hoc). These
      informal settings are complemented by three slightly more formal review processes. The
      first is the works-in-progress reading process, through which colleagues can request
      comments from staff with a track-record of writing high quality publications. The second is
      the REF-reading process in which each output under consideration for REF is reviewed by
      two colleagues both to assess its quality in REF terms and to provide constructive feedback
      for future work. The third is the research funding application review process in which all
      applications are also reviewed by at least two colleagues prior to submission (for UKRI

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      applications, the University runs an additional round of pre-submission reviews to share
      best practice and manage demand).

   b) Networking: Our research centres provide an excellent site for interdisciplinary networking
      opportunities. CCR, for example, has members from 17 departments across four faculties
      and routinely brings them together for coffee mornings and one-day conferences in either
      the Interdisciplinary Centre for the Social Sciences or the Humanities Research Institute
      (both of which house state-of-the-art IT infrastructure, meeting rooms, exhibition space, and
      specialised support for social science and humanities research). Further, the School enjoys
      a close relationship with the Faculty interdisciplinary research institute SPERI (Sheffield
      Political Economy Research Institute) – indeed, 25% of our research-active colleagues are
      associate fellows of SPERI, one of the largest representations from any department in the
      University. Rühmkorf’s EU-funded work with LeBaron (then director of SPERI) on modern
      slavery and global supply chains is an example of collaborative scholarship between the
      School and the Institute in this assessment period.

   c) Mentoring: All colleagues participate in Sheffield’s Staff Review and Development Scheme
      (see REF5a) which involves an annual one-to-one meeting with a senior colleague to
      discuss, among other things, research priorities for the coming academic year, research
      training and support needs, and balancing research, teaching and leadership
      responsibilities. In addition, the Research Staff Development Director runs an opt-in
      mentoring scheme for less formal (but complementary) advice and support tailored to the
      individual’s specific needs. Mentoring from senior staff in other parts of the Faculty and
      wider University is also available and such arrangements are currently in place for three
      colleagues. Furthermore, our research centre reforms have better positioned senior
      colleagues to play a guiding role in the development of research projects and funding
      applications. A measure of our success in this particular respect is that 41% of research
      awards in this cycle have come from non-professorial colleagues (an increase from 26% in
      the previous cycle).

   d) Communication: Our online staff handbook includes up-to-date information and policies
      on: the research funding application process (including flow charts of timelines, a repository
      of successful applications for each scheme and a list of key contacts); KE and impact
      (including examples and available resources); OA publishing; research ethics approval; and
      REF guidelines. This information is kept under review by the Research Committee, with
      updates communicated in all-School meetings. In addition, the Deputy Research Director
      and Hub work closely with central University Research Services to ensure all relevant
      research funding opportunities and corresponding University-run application writing
      workshops are communicated to colleagues via a weekly electronic bulletin. Lastly, the
      School also celebrates recently published outputs, successful research funding awards,
      notable conference addresses and far-reaching impact work through the bulletin, website,
      social media updates, regular updates from the Head of School and Deputy Research
      Director, and framed posters located throughout Bartolome House (the School’s building).

   e) Monetary Support. The School offers monetary support to colleagues for their research
      activities by allocating £55k per year to a ‘rapid response’ research fund administered by
      the Deputy Research Director and Research Committee (in this assessment period 473
      awards from this fund have been made to 76 colleagues totalling £303k); £7k per year to
      each research centre; and £250 per annum to each research-active colleague. These
      resources enable colleagues to engage in a variety of research activities including



                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       attending and presenting research at conferences; engaging in networking activities;
       accessing research assistance; and maintaining membership of Learned Societies.

In terms of KE and impact, our School research infrastructure has been supplemented by
significant additional support from the Faculty External Engagement Team, which provides impact
training for departments and manages the ESRC Impact Acceleration Account, as well as other
University resources for impact and KE. Under these arrangements, the School has benefited
from: the provision of impact associates to facilitate and maximise engagement with users (e.g.
evidence collection for Rühmkorf’s work on German company compliance with corporate social
responsibility principles; support for Gee’s 2016 workshop on Judicial Leadership in an Age of
Austerity involving senior judges and civil servants); funding for travel to meet public body and
NGO representatives (e.g. Johnston’s work with NGOs and EU trades union in Brussels;
Rühmkorf’s work with German companies; Shapland’s chairing of a restorative justice policy forum
in Edinburgh; Burrell’s participation in an International Trade Mark Association meeting in New
York); access to the Impact Acceleration Account funding (e.g. Skinns, to support development of
good police custody benchmarks); the provision of advice to our Impact Coordinator; and
intermittent updates on external engagement and impact to all staff (e.g. at our February 2020
research away day).

The final component of our research infrastructure is the physical space in which the School is
located. All our academic and professional services colleagues (including PGRs and visiting
scholars) are accommodated in Bartolome House – a listed red-brick Victorian building which
benefited from an extensive £466k refurbishment in 2008 and a further £189k investment in this
assessment period. This means our whole research community – professional services, PGRs and
academics alike – enjoy comfortable and welcoming offices, seminar rooms, communal spaces
and a Moot Court, all equipped with state-of-the-art audio-visual technologies supported by our
own IT team (2 FTE). These surroundings not only form a central part of our collective identity, but
also make for a highly conducive environment in which to undertake our research activities and
welcome external partners and users.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


4.1 Collaboration

Collaborative research is central to the School’s identity. Every one of our colleagues enjoys
membership of research networks which not only connect together academics across a range of
universities and disciplines but also engage users from charities, social enterprises, government
departments, judiciaries, professional bodies, media companies, international organisations,
supranational institutions and global corporations, to name just a few. These networks operate at
the regional level, such as the Northern Public Law Forum (Gee and Tomlinson, founders) and the
N8 Policing Research Partnership (Bacon, Shapland, Skinns and White); the national level, such
as the SLS and SLSA-funded Women’s Legal Landmarks project (Russell) and the Howard
League for Penal Reform (Farrall, Sharpe, Skinns); the European level, such as the EU-funded
COST network on community sanctions and measures (Robinson) and the European Citizen
Action Service and the Law Centres Network (Strumia, founder); and the international level, such
as the EC Jean Monnet-funded transatlantic EU Health Law and Policy network (Hervey) and the
NATO Cooperative Cyber Defence Centre of Excellence (Buchan).

The success of these memberships is evidenced in the collaborative nature of our research income
and outputs. Our 37 research awards in this cycle included co-applicants from 23 overseas

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
institutions in locations including Australia, Belgium, Bhutan, China, Denmark, Germany, Ghana,
Hong Kong, India, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Spain and Sweden. Of the 86 submitted
outputs, 37 were co-authored with 44 academics across Europe, North America and Australasia.
Furthermore, colleagues have (co)edited a range of international volumes including: Hervey’s
Oxford Handbook on Comparative Health Law (OUP), which includes contributions from 49
academics and users from 13 countries; Buchan and Tsagourias’ Research Handbook on
International Law and Cyberspace (Edward Elgar), which includes contributions from 26
academics and users from 9 countries; Kirkham’s Research Handbook on the Ombudsman
(Edward Elgar) which includes contributions from 35 academics and users from 12 countries; and
Robinson’s Community Punishment: European Perspectives (Routledge) which includes 11
contributors from 11 countries.

While these activities have been driven by the ambitions of our colleagues, they have at the same
time taken shape in a School environment designed to initiate and sustain academic and user
collaborations in a number of ways. For instance, colleagues access School funds to pay for their
memberships and participate in the events of learned societies across the globe, including the
American Society of Criminology, American Society of International Law, Asian Law and Society
Association, British Society of Criminology, Constitutional Law Society, European Society of
Criminology, European Society of International Law, European Union Studies Association,
Industrial Law Society, Institute for Employment Rights International Society of Public Law, Latin
American Society of International Law, Law and Society Association, Society of Legal Scholars
and Socio-Legal Studies Association.

Furthermore, research centres fund and organise seminar series and visiting scholar programmes
to bring selected academics and users into the School to share ideas and develop collaborations.
SCIEL, for example, has hosted: judges from the International Criminal Court and International
Court of Justice; a Former Legal Advisor to the US Department of State; a member of the UN
International Law Commission; a Senior Fellow at the NATO Cyber Defence Centre of Excellence;
and professors from Yale, Harvard, and the US Naval War College.

Research centres also support initiatives designed to launch collaborative research. Some are
more oriented towards academic collaboration. For example, SICCL – supported by the SLS –
hosted 4 ‘Law and Money’ conferences between 2014 and 2018 which brought together 45
academics from 31 Universities and 10 countries to explore financial market reform in the wake of
the 2008 financial crisis. Others are more oriented towards non-academic collaboration. For
instance, in 2014 CCR launched the Sheffield University Policing Research Group (SUPRG) to
develop collaborative relations with South Yorkshire Police (SYP). SUPRG has since organised
five workshops on salient topics such as austerity policing, restorative justice, probation reform,
neighbourhood policing and violence reduction and diversion, with a total of 103 participants from
both institutions. SUPRG has also played a key role in delivering funded projects, most notably two
N8-funded workshops on police-academic collaboration (one of which, ‘Working with the Police on
Policing’, was turned into a special issue of the European Journal of Policing edited by Bacon,
Shapland and Skinns) and an SYP-funded evaluation of the force’s multi-agency data sharing hub
(Bacon, Quinlan, Thompson). The School’s policies and infrastructure therefore play a key role in
cultivating and sustaining our collaborative approach to research.

4.2 Impact and engagement

Our collaborative approach to research extends to non-academic audiences too. Colleagues have
created numerous pathways to impact through the dissemination of research findings to public and
third sector bodies at the local, national, and international levels. In this assessment period, for

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
instance, colleagues have provided invited written submissions and/or consultancy to: i) UK
Parliament, including the House of Commons Justice, Constitutional Affairs and Public
Administration Select Committees (Farrall, Gee), the House of Lords Constitution Committee (Gee)
and a range of Ombudsmen (Kirkham); ii) UK Central Government, including Special Advisors in
10 Downing Street (Gee), the Cabinet Office (Robinson), the Ministry of Justice for England and
Wales (Shapland, Sharpe, Tomlinson) and the Ministry of Defence (Krajewska); iii) UK justice
bodies, including the Supreme Court (Gee), Administrative Justice Council (Kirkham), College of
Policing (Bacon, Shapland, Skinns, White), Her Majesty’s Inspectorates of Prisons and
Constabulary (Skinns), and National Police Custody Forum and Police Custody Standards Board
(Skinns); iv) EU agencies, including the Biobanking and Molecular Resources Research
Infrastructure (Chico), European Commission (Johnston) and European Parliament (Roger); v)
International organisations, including NATO (Buchan), the OECD (Johnston), and the United
Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (Brown); and vi) NGOs and charities, including Amnesty
International (Rühmkorf), Brexit Health Alliance (Hervey), British Medical Association (Hervey),
Cancer Research UK (Hervey), Howard League for Penal Reform (Farrall), Friends of the Earth
(Cullen, Xu), Global Initiative Against Transnational Organised Crime (Brown), Global Witness
(Cullen, Xu) and Greenpeace (Ni Ghrianne).

Furthermore, these pathways have led to demonstrable impact over and above our impact case
studies. For instance: Hervey used her research on EU health law and policy to co-draft an
amendment to the EU (Withdrawal) Bill through the auspices of the Faculty of Public Health which
was tabled in February 2018; Kebbell’s research on money laundering was cited numerous times
in a recent Law Commission consultation paper and she has participated in high-level working
groups in the Law Society, Home Office and Treasury; Johnston used his research on corporate
governance to inform the policy positions of the European Trade Union Institute, revise parts of the
EU Shareholder Rights Directive and update the OECD Principles of Corporate Governance;
Rühmkorf used his research on corporate social responsibility to create a CSR compliance ranking
for the top 30 German companies which has been published in and monitored by the premier
German business magazine Fuchsbriefe; and Burrell’s research on trademarks was instrumental in
changing legislation in Australia, influencing the development of Australian intellectual property
case law, and reforming the international model laws produced by the International Trademark
Association.

While using our research to effect change across state, economy and society is central to the
identity of the School, we also place a high priority on public engagement more broadly,
disseminating research to more general audiences through a variety of media. Farrall, for example,
turned his ESRC-funded research on criminal justice under Thatcherism into a documentary called
‘Generation Right’ which has been screened at 17 festivals around the world and has won awards
at the London Classic Film Festival, Oregon Film Awards, Mexico International Film Festival,
Impact Doc Awards, Spotlight Documentary Film Awards and the Honolulu International Film
Festival. Hervey similarly turned her ESRC-funded research into a documentary called ‘Brexit,
Health and Me’. Both Sharpe and Skinns developed their ESRC-funded projects on the
criminalisation of young women and police custody, respectively, into live plays performed at
ESRC Festival of Social Science events. Lastly, Gee was editor and curator of the Policy
Exchange's Judicial Power Project website, organising and participating in public seminars and
events, advising stakeholders and politicians.

4.3 Sustainability of the Discipline

The ambition, focus on excellence and supportive culture which run through our School also
encourage our colleagues to make broader contributions towards the sustainability not only of law

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and criminology but a range of other disciplines too. For instance, colleagues at all career stages
have performed steering roles in learned societies in the UK and abroad, including the British
Society of Criminology (Bacon, Quinlan, Skinns, White), International Society of Criminology
(Shapland), South Asian Society of Criminology and Victimology (Shapland), Society of Legal
Scholars (E Jones), Socio-Legal Studies Association (Blandy, Kirkham), Academic Association for
Contemporary European Studies (Cardwell), International Association of Legal and Social
Philosophy (Xu), Health Research Authority (Taylor) and International Bar Association (E Jones).
Colleagues are also active members of research grants committees in the UK and abroad,
including the ESRC (Brown, Farrall, Keren-Paz, Shapland and Skinns), AHRC (Craven, Keren-
Paz, Tsagourias), MRC (Taylor), European Research Council (Taylor), Belgian Research Council
(Keren-Paz, Shapland), Danish Research Grants Scheme (Hervey), Estonian Research Council
(Rühmkorf), Irish Research Council (Hervey), Israel Science Foundation (Keren-Paz) and
Research Grants Council of Hong Kong (Xu).

Alongside these steering roles, colleagues perform a wide variety of editorial roles on a similarly
wide geographical scale. For example, 28 colleagues currently or have in this assessment period
resided on the editorial board of no fewer than 46 journals. On the law side, this includes the
Journal of the Use of Force in International Law (Buchan, Tsagourias), Journal of Conflict and
Security Law (Tsagourias), International Community Law Review (Buchan), Law, Innovation and
Technology (Taylor), Oriental Law Review (Xu), Indian Law Review (Garg) and Health Economics,
Policy and Law (Hervey). On the criminology side, this includes the Australian and New Zealand
Journal of Criminology (Brown, Farrall), British Journal of Criminology (Farrall, Robinson, Skinns
and White), Howard Journal of Crime and Justice (Robinson) and Probation Journal (Robinson).
Buchan is Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of International Humanitarian Legal Studies, Knepper was
editor of the European Journal of Criminology and Shapland is Executive Editor of the International
Review of Victimology. Colleagues have also reviewed manuscripts for top academic publishers
including Oxford University Press, Cambridge University Press, Palgrave, Routledge, Policy Press,
Polity Press, Hart, Ashgate and Sage. Lastly, colleagues have examined over 70 PhDs both in the
UK (including at Birkbeck, Bristol, Cambridge, Durham, Edinburgh, KCL, LSE, Manchester and
Warwick) and overseas (including ANU, Griffiths and New South Wales in Australia; Ghent in
Belgium; Simon Fraser in Canada; Shanghai Jiaotong in China; Mines ParisTech in France;
Amsterdam and Maastricht in the Netherlands; Barcelona and Pompeu Fabra in Spain and
Uppsala in Sweden); they have coordinated international PhD training networks (such as
Shapland’s role as organiser of the pan-European GERN doctoral school and Tsagourias’s role as
organiser of PGR workshops for the Interest Group on Peace and Security within the European
Society of International Law); and they have steered interdisciplinary PhD training networks (such
as Hervey’s role coordinating the ‘Construction of Human Perfection’ PhD network which includes
collaborators in Dentistry, Engineering, Psychology and English).

As a consequence of this academic standing, our colleagues have been awarded 38 visiting
fellowships at UK universities (including Oxford, Cambridge, Kings College London and Warwick),
international universities (including Sciences Po, Columbia, Yale and Melbourne) and a range of
non-academic organisations such as US Naval War College (Tsagourias), NATO Cyber Defence
Centre of Excellence (Buchan), European Court of Justice (Hervey) and the European Trade Union
Institute (Johnston). They have also given over 100 keynotes at events in 18 different countries
across Europe, North America, Africa and Asia. These include annual conference plenaries (such
as Shapland at the European Society of Criminology) as well as flagship events in other disciplines
such as the Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accounting (Hervey) and the Clinical Ethics
Network (Chico, Keren-Paz) annual conferences.



                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The excellence of our research has been formally recognised in the disciplines of law and
criminology, with colleagues at all career levels being awarded prestigious prizes for their various
intellectual contributions. For example, at ECR level, Tomczak’s book The Penal Voluntary Sector
won the 2017 British Society of Criminology Annual Book Prize; at the senior lecturer level,
Brown’s article ‘Postcolonial Penality’ won the 2017 Theoretical Criminology best article prize and
Strumia was given a Young Talented Italians Award in 2017; and at the professorial level,
Shapland received the BSC Outstanding Achievement Award 2013 and Blandy was elected Fellow
of the Academy of Social Sciences in 2019.




                                                                                            Page 17
