Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Cardiff Metropolitan University
 Unit of Assessment:
 UOA03 – Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Through sustained and focussed strategic action during the current REF census period, Health
 Sciences1 has achieved significant growth across a number of key performance indicators.
 These include: over 50% increase in research income; a near three-fold increase in the number
 of staff being returned; and a doubling of both Professors / Readers and externally funded PhD
 students. The growth in volume and quality of our research was integral to the University being
 listed in the Times Higher Education (THE) World University rankings for the first time in 2019
 and again in 2020, as well as the THE World University Young rankings in 2020. Table 1
 provides further details of key metrics in the period.

 Table 1: Growth in Research Metrics REF2014 to REF2021
                                              REF 2014                           REF 2021  Growth
                                                 n=                                   n=      n=
  Total research income                      £5,030,725                           £7,566,561
                                                                                         £2,535,836
                                                                                            (50%)
   Number of staff submitted to REF                         12               34*              22
                                                                                           (183%)
   Female staff submitted to REF                            5                 20              15
                                                                                           (300%)
   Number of Professors                                     7                 15              12
                                                                                           (110%)
   Number of Readers                                        5                 9                4
                                                                                            (80%)
   Number of peer-reviewed manuscripts                     229               410             181
                                                                                            (79%)
   Externally funded PhDs                                   10                19               9
                                                                                            (90%)
   Postgraduate Research (PGR) Student                      36                48              12
   completions                                                                              (33%)
   Number of Honorary / Visiting Professorial               4                 11               7
   appointments                                                                            (175%)
 * Equivalent to 31 FTE staff with significant responsibility for research, representing 32% of eligible
 Health Sciences staff.

 Context and structure
 The 2014 Cardiff School of Health Sciences REF environment submission was rated as 87.5%
 (12.5% 4-star; 75% 3-star) world-leading and internationally excellent based on our established
 track record in applied science and allied health professions (AHPs). It drew on the success of
 two internationally recognised research centres: The Food Industry Centre (FIC)2 and The
 Centre for Health, Safety and Environment. Our strategic priorities for the current census period
 centred on continued growth in volume and high-quality research, specifically to increase:

      a)   critical mass in concentrated specialist areas of research;
      b)   the diversity of research and innovation (R&I) income;
      c)   research impact;
      d)   interdisciplinary research and international collaboration.


1Cardiff School of Sport and Health Sciences formed in 2017 as a result of a University led merger between Cardiff

School of Health Sciences and Cardiff School of Sport. The term Health Sciences refers to this submitting unit and is
used throughout the document.
2 Known externally as The ZERO2FIVE Food Industry Centre (FIC).


                                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
a) Critical Mass
In 2017, we revised our research structure into two R&I themes, overarching eleven R&I groups
containing cross-cutting expertise and greater critical mass to capitalise on synergies and
strengths of the newly merged School. These form the basis of our return (Table 2). The new
structure was a conduit for the development of a third Centre of Excellence in 2019 - The Centre
for Health, Activity and Wellbeing Research - which draws on expertise from across the School
to address priorities around health and wellbeing, economic growth, and sustainable
communities.

 Table 2: Research Groups Aligned to R&I Themes within Health Sciences
                        Theme 1: Cardiovascular Health & Ageing
    Cardiovascular
                            Cardiovascular         Cellular Senescence        Nutrition, Food      Stroke Hub
    Metabolism &
                             Physiology             & Pathophysiology           & Health             Wales
     Inflammation
                                 Theme 2: Population Risk & Healthcare
     Applied
                                                        Occupational &         Public           Speech,
   Psychology &        Food         Microbiology
                                                        Environmental         Health &         Hearing &
    Behaviour          Safety        & Infection
                                                         Public Health        Wellbeing      Communication
     Change

 Throughout the REF period our strategy has been to target the recruitment of staff with a
 demonstrable research track record aligned to our R&I themes (Aicheler, Butcher, Connolly,
 Crone, Green, Hallingberg, Hodgetts, James D, James P, Livingstone, Phillips, and Zhao),
 or early career researchers with strong potential for high-quality research (Blaxland, DeClaire,
 Rhys, Stubbings, and Taylor). This has enabled us to build greater critical mass around key
 research foci and safeguard the allocation of protected research time, both of which were
 catalysts for our increased research quality, productivity, and income. We have also established
 Honorary contracts / Visiting Professorships for NHS Consultants (Anderson, Coulson, Geen,
 Rees), esteemed academic colleagues at other institutions (Akerman, Davies, Evered,
 Jackson, Sakkas), and other public health bodies (Holah, Thomas) to foster links with
 healthcare systems and other key stakeholder groups where they align with our specialist
 research areas.

b) Diversification of Income
A second strategic priority was to expand and diversify our income sources and the number and
nature of partners we engaged with. We have achieved major success in this regard by
capitalising on European Union (EU) funding streams such as the Knowledge Economy Skills
Scholarships (KESS 2)3. We secured 19 KESS 2 projects during the period, nine of which were
partnered with NHS or healthcare providers, yielding circa £1.5 million in external income. To
ensure R&I projects were patient-centred, service focussed, and a driver for clinical impact we
also strengthened our close ties with the NHS through membership of University Health Board
Partnership Committees (Mathieson, James P, Sykes). For example, we established the
Stroke Hub Wales (James P) through Welsh Government (WG) funding (£240k) in partnership
with Aneurin Bevan University Health Board.

 We expanded the number of international research partnerships 32-fold which led to the further
 diversification of our funding sources. For example, we secured circa £700k through the
 following European funding streams:

     -   the pan-European ‘FRAILOMIC’ programme (£400k; Butcher, Erusalimsky), a
         consortium of six European Universities, the World Health Organisation (WHO), two
         world-leading research centres, seven small and medium-sized enterprises and four
         hospital-based research groups;

3 Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarships (KESS 2) are a pan-Wales knowledge exchange initiative supported by

European Social Funds (ESF) through the Welsh Government (WG).

                                                                                                         Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    -   the Horizon 2020, Marie Sklodowska-Curie Actions project ‘HIT-LVAD’ in collaboration
        with Columbia University and Industrial Development Medical-Technology Ltd (Germany)
        (€252k; McDonnell, Stöhr);
    -   the Rights, Equality and Citizenship (REC) Programme, Lights4Violence project (£50k;
        Bowes, DeClaire, Watt) with schools and young people across Europe.

 We also achieved a greater than 3-fold increase in competitive funding from charitable bodies
 totalling circa £700k. This included funding from the British Heart Foundation (£210k; James P);
 the Jane Hodge Foundation (£156k; Jenkins); the Waterloo Foundation (£130k; Jenkins);
 Tenovus (£50k; Evans); and the Sir Halley Stewart Trust (£50k; Beeton).

c) Research Impact
In line with the University’s R&I strategy, research impact is a cornerstone of our activity.
Industrial and NHS partners have been integral to knowledge exchange activities and have
provided a critical interface for our translational and impactful research. Our approach is
predicated on:

    -   Centres of Excellence and R&I themes providing a catalyst for the strategic focus of our
        research activities, collaborations, and stakeholder and end-user engagement.
    -   supporting programmes of research with potential for immediate, medium, and longer-
        term impact.
    -   scoping potential impact case studies so that emerging cases can be identified at an
        early stage of development and supported to optimise their potential.
    -   cultivating programmes of applied interdisciplinary research to meet end-user needs.

 The research-impact interface has been cultivated widely across Health Sciences, an example
 of which is the FIC’s HELIX project (Lloyd). Through its support to Welsh small to medium
 enterprises, HELIX has yielded an economic impact of £96 million and resulted in the
 development of 305 new food products, provided support to 64 new companies and safeguarded
 1120 jobs. Additional research funding and knowledge exchange activities provided a catalyst
 for improved food processing and product design to minimise contamination in food preparation
 (Evans, Lloyd, Redmond, Tatham).

 We have supported research with the potential for impact at an early stage by providing initial
 pump-priming. For example, a pilot project that led to the WG funded GP Ability study, aligned
 with diabetic screening across Wales, resulted in the development of an international peripheral
 arterial disease diagnostic service (Lewis JE) - the basis of one of our three impact case
 studies. Further University funding supported a feasibility study applying a new reflexology
 technique to reduce breast cancer-related lymphatic fluid in 36 patients, which led to 2400
 reflexologists being trained in this technique world-wide (Whatley). In each of these instances,
 early identification of potential research impact enabled strategic deployment of internal funds
 and support - an integral approach to the development of our current and ongoing impact case
 studies and programmes of impactful research.

 Impact is further fostered through one-to-one support meetings with the REF Coordinator,
 impact case development meetings to share good practice, and funding to attend specific
 courses or conferences to maximise global reach and impact potential. Our researchers also
 have direct access to Public and Patient Involvement (PPI) Group members to ensure that all
 our research programmes are informed by lay members and end-users at an early stage.

d) Approach to Interdisciplinary Research
Several different approaches have been adopted to foster interdisciplinarity in our research. Our
staff have been supported to engage with scientific, industrial, and patient / clinical partners by
early investment of School funds, the Santander University Mobility fund, and our Patent
Development Group. Examples of research, led by our investigators include:



                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          -                European Commission, Horizon 2020, Marie Sklodowska-Curie Actions programme -
                           enabled collaboration with Industrial Development Medical-technology Ltd. based in
                           Germany and Columbia University Medical Centre, New York, USA (McDonnell, Stöhr).
                           The Haemodynamics Informing Treatment in patients with Left Ventricular Assist Device
                           (HIT-LVAD) trial meant that heart failure patients fitted with an LVAD can have their
                           blood pressure measured for the first time.
          -                a programme of work on anagrelide (Erusalimsky) for the treatment of cancer was
                           undertaken with Sheffield University and the Estonian Biocentre, Estonia. This gave rise
                           to a patent in collaboration with two industrial partners - Aluztra Bio Ltd, UK and SUDA
                           Pharmaceuticals Ltd, Australia.

 Further approaches to nurturing interdisciplinary research include staff attendance at a series of
 cross-University 2-day intensive workshops / sandpits bringing academics together to identify
 areas of synergy. Examples of active research programmes arising directly from these include
 research with:

          -                Cardiff School of Art and Design on the use of eye-tracking technology for understanding
                           consumer and food manufacturer behaviours (Evans) and production of 3-D simulated
                           feet for use by podiatry educators (Curran);
          -                Cardiff School of Technologies to design an animation platform to help patients
                           understand / visualise the consequences of hypertension (i.e., stroke) to improve
                           medication-adherence (James D, McDonnell).

 Open Access
 Since 2017, 98% or more of our publications have been Open Access (Figure 1), evidencing our
 compliance to the University’s Open Access policy, introduced in 2014. Training is provided by
 the University’s Library Services to ensure research outputs are uploaded to the institution’s
 Open Access repository (DSpace) in line with the REF Open Access policy. As a result of
 investment in training and technology, our increase in Open Access publications has been
 mirrored by the number of output downloads which increased from circa 48k in 2018 to 126k in
 2019 (Figure 1). As a consequence, our research has reached larger audiences year-on-year
 during the current REF cycle.

 In 2018, the University invested in Figshare, a repository for staff to store, share and manage
 their research. This supports our drive towards an ever more Open Research environment,
 exceeding current REF requirements. An example of where this software has been particularly
 useful is the sharing of material for specialist training on breast cancer-related lymphatic
 drainage provided to circa 2400 reflexologists worldwide (Whatley).

 Figure 1 - Health Sciences Open Access Metrics 2014-20
                          200000                                                                      100%
                          180000                                                                      90%
                          160000                                                                      80%
    Number of downloads




                          140000                                                                      70%
                          120000                                                                      60%
                          100000                                                                      50%
                          80000                                                                       40%
                          60000                                                                       30%
                          40000                                                                       20%
                          20000                                                                       10%
                              0                                                                       0%
                                    2014     2015     2016     2017       2018     2019      2020

                                   Total downloads                    Estimated downloads
                                   Downloads after July 2020          % of publications that are OA


                                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research Integrity
 All staff and students engaged in research are required to meet exemplary standards of
 academic practice and integrity. Mandatory training ensures that practices set out in the
 University Research Governance Framework are incorporated into their everyday work. Health
 Sciences has four dedicated Ethics sub-panels (Healthcare and Food, Biomedical Sciences,
 Applied Psychology and Applied Healthcare) that meet weekly, and sit under the umbrella of the
 School Research Ethics Committee (REC), chaired by the ADR. REC meets quarterly and
 reports to the University Ethics Committee (UEC). In 2017, we developed and implemented a
 SharePoint-based online ethics submission process that ensures efficient processing of over
 1200 ethics applications per year and records data securely in full compliance with General Data
 Protection Regulation (GDPR). All staff are required to undertake mandatory GDPR online
 training and staff and students working on clinical- based projects are also required to undertake
 the Good Clinical Practice and Medical Research Council online training. Our Ethics Framework
 incorporates the professional codes of conduct of external agencies relevant to our research
 specialties, for example the British Psychological Society and accrediting bodies for AHPs. Links
 to the relevant ethics guidance for these bodies are provided in the research sections of virtual
 learning platforms such as Moodle and introduced formally at undergraduate level to ensure full
 appreciation of ethical aspects and research integrity at an early stage.

 A quality management system ensures that any research involving human participants, or where
 samples of human origin are taken, conforms to the highest ethical standards. In 2017, the
 University underwent a successful Human Tissue Act (HTA) audit resulting in license renewal
 (License number: 12408). This is overseen by the HTA Designated Individual (Kelly) who sits
 within Health Sciences and is a core member of School and University level Ethics Committees.

 Future Strategic Aims
 Our future strategy is based on capitalising on our distinct areas of expertise to address major
 and global challenges for health and wellbeing, economic growth, and sustainability. This is
 predicated on our capacity and ability to deliver research with worldwide impact that aligns to the
 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. To help achieve this, the University launched
 three new Global Academies in November 2020, which bring together expertise from across our
 five Schools to further facilitate interdisciplinary and creative thinking. Two of the Global
 Academies are driven from within Health Sciences (Food Science Safety & Security, and Health
 & Human Performance – see Institutional Environment Statement). Crone’s appointment to lead
 the Centre for Health, Activity and Wellbeing Research will enable the School to capitalise on
 our breadth of expertise for employing multidisciplinary approaches to address major societal
 issues. Building on these and other developments within the merged School, our objectives over
 the next REF cycle are aligned to the University’s 5-year strategic plan (2018-23)4, and include:

      1. continuing sustainable growth of 5% per annum in research funding, with particular
         emphasis on applying to cherished sources, such as the Medical Research Council
         (MRC), National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) and charitable funding bodies;
      2. enhancing the quality of our research papers and research impact through ongoing
         School and institutional strategic initiatives such as coaching and pump-priming;
      3. increasing the number of staff with significant responsibility for research from 31 FTE to
         45 FTE by the next REF through formal mentoring schemes including the University’s
         ‘Women to Professors’ and ‘Early Career Researcher (ERC)’ programmes;
      4. enhancing international partnerships through our existing Centres and the new Centre for
         Health, Activity and Wellbeing Research as well as the Global Academies;
      5. optimising the use of emerging practices and platforms for Open Research to promote
         reproducibility of our research, for example through Figshare;
      6. developing new areas of interdisciplinary R&I such as digital health technologies in
         collaboration with the newly formed Cardiff School of Technologies.


4 Underlying all these objectives are specific University and School targets, key performance indicators and workstreams.


                                                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Our strategic priorities for this census period are exemplified by our commitment to research
 excellence through the appointment, support, and development of high-quality researchers.
 Targeted recruitment of 18 academic staff (two at Professorial level) with a proven R&I track
 record has built critical mass and enhanced succession planning in the following areas:
 Healthcare: James D, Zhao; Biomedical Research: Aicheler, Butcher, James, P, Connolly,
 Green, Livingstone, Whelton; Food Safety and Nutrition: Blaxland; Applied Psychology:
 DeClaire, Hallingberg, Hodgetts, Phillips, Rhys, Stubbings, Taylor; and Public Health and
 Wellbeing: Crone. Research leadership has been strengthened through our support for internal
 promotions to Professor (Curran, James D, James P, Morris) and Reader (Bowes, Limbert,
 McDonnell, Mercer, Zhao). Our engagement of eminent scholars to Honorary Professor
 (Anderson, Coulson, Geen, Rees) has further enhanced the research leadership of our R&I
 groups. We have also supported academic staff in their development to become postgraduate
 research supervisors, with 24 staff having become either Director of Studies (n=10) or new PhD
 supervisors (n=14) during this census period.

 Staff Support and Development
 Staff development for research engagement and career progression is supported at all levels
 and considered key to achieving the School’s strategic aims. Staff have protected time for
 research on their workload which is applied consistently and in proportion to research activity
 and outcomes. Quarterly staff performance review meetings provide the conduit for the ADR in
 conjunction with the designated line manager to adjust the allocation of research hours. These
 reviews focus on establishing the individual’s knowledge / experience gaps to signpost training
 and development opportunities, in tandem with their progress towards agreed outcomes.

 The School has a long-established commitment to staff development, typically allocating circa
 10% of non-salary budget per year towards staff training and continuing professional
 development, totalling £600k in this REF period. A total of 312 staff attendances have been
 supported at national (n=269) or international (n=43) conferences. Financial support is also
 strategically targeted at early- and mid-career individuals. For example, two early career
 researchers benefitted from funding to attend the WG Crucible developmental programme which
 has a 20% acceptance rate (Jenkins, Welton). The University also funded Hallingberg, Kelly
 and Fairchild to attend the Missenden Centre writing / funding Masterclass in April 2020.

 All our academic staff align to one of the eleven R&I groups (each with a lead) that provide
 strategic direction and informal mentorship of early and mid-career researchers. Our two R&I
 themes also provide a supportive, creative environment for cross-disciplinary advice and internal
 peer-review for activities such as grant development. This mentorship is complemented by an
 institutional mentoring scheme for pairing early and mid-career researchers with senior
 academics from other Schools. Staff are also encouraged to think about the potential enablers
 for their plans, such as internal and external Advisory Board membership, networking and linking
 to industry. For example, Health Sciences invested circa £350k in seed funding, and staff
 secured a further £356k from University R&I pump- priming initiatives. Staff also accessed other
 small awards such as the Santander University Mobility Awards (Bowes, DeClaire,
 Erusalimsky, McDonnell) to support national and international exchange activities.

 A Health Sciences REF Panel provides a mechanism for ongoing, independent quality review of
 research outputs, which provides timely feedback to authors. The ADR and REF Coordinator
 also deliver annual training workshops to all academic staff on rating their research output
 quality and fostering impact. We also draw on external expertise, for example, in 2017 we
 delivered a workshop to over 50 research staff and PGR students in collaboration with Editors
 from Elsevier. University level training complements that delivered by Health Sciences, and
 includes academic writing workshops, interdisciplinary funding workshops and doctoral
 supervisory training. Our staff also avail themselves of the University’s Organisational
 Development Unit’s range of skills training associated with R&I. These include project


                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 management, networking, chairing examination boards, technical skills for designing electronic
 surveys (Qualtrics™) and analysing qualitative (nVivo™) and quantitative data (SPSS™).

 In a strategic drive to increase the number of staff with Doctoral degrees, we have supported our
 staff to undertake part-time Doctoral qualifications aligned to their professional practice area.
 Currently, 18 members of staff are enrolled on Doctoral programmes, each benefitting from an
 additional workload allocation of a minimum of 271 hours dedicated time for research (equating
 to a total investment of £138k per annum) and fees paid by the School on their behalf (£99k
 during the period).

 Several initiatives are in place to cultivate interactions between students, staff, and external
 partners, including the following:

    -   Research Capacity Building Collaboration (RCBC) Wales scheme where our staff can
        work with students from healthcare settings who benefit from a national Community of
        Scholars for research skills training. Funding was obtained for a total of 9 research
        projects - 5 PhD scholarships, 1 MPhil and 3 First into Research Scholarship awards
        during this period (value of £141k).
    -   Doctorate in Forensic Psychology programme for qualified practitioners which is
        approved by the Health and Care Professions Council. Graduates are eligible to apply to
        the British Psychological Society register to practice as Forensic Psychologists in the UK
        (n=5 enrolled during this period).
    -   Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarships (KESS 2) programme which provides the
        opportunity for academic staff to link with industry employees to co-supervise a PhD
        student to address an unmet research need in their organisation that will lead to a new
        body of professional knowledge (19 in this period).
    -   Health Sciences Professional Doctorate programme which is specifically structured to
        support change, informed by research, within professional practice or an organisation (17
        enrolments in this period).

 Postgraduate Research Students
 We have invested £349k in PGR student support during this REF period, targeted at personal
 development, such as presenting research at conferences and attending training events. PGR
 students also benefit from a dedicated state-of-the-art study room, which received an additional
 £26k investment for refurbishment, where all students are provided with an individual study
 space and a desktop computer. This physical environment is augmented by the new online
 Doctoral Academy Portal (launched in April 2020), which is the ‘one-stop-shop’ for all PGR-
 related information, resources and online training / event promotion. Each student has a
 dedicated supervisory team, comprising a Director of Studies and supervisors, who hold formal
 progress reviews at 3-monthly intervals for full-time and 6-monthly for part-time students.
 Progress is reviewed annually, approved by School and Institutional Research Degrees
 Committees, and recorded on PhD Manager, an online database that enables students to track
 their Professional Development Portfolio, skills training, supervisory meetings, and changes to
 enrolment.

 We have a vibrant PGR student community, with a buddying system for new students, social
 events and an effective system of student representation on all committees (e.g., Cardiff Met
 Research Student Committee, School Research Degrees Sub-Committee, and Health Sciences
 Ethics Panel). We host an annual PGR student symposium at which all PhD students are
 encouraged to present, alongside keynote presentations by external speakers, which provides
 additional student training opportunities (£24k investment during the period). Monthly, ‘Scoff with
 Prof’ meetings provide an informal environment for two-way interaction between PGR students
 and the Research Degrees Management Team. This was augmented during the first COVID-19
 lockdown, where daily online student drop-in sessions were available to discuss any issues.

 We are actively engaged in supporting, training and supervising PGR students, offering both
 traditional PhD (full- and part-time) and Professional Doctorate (part-time) programmes. During

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the census period, there were 48 completions, a 33% increase on REF2014. Indeed, we have
 achieved considerable growth in successive REF cycles in the number of full-time equivalent
 research degree candidates with a 40% increase on REF2014 (67 enrolments, including 14
 international students). The quality of supervision and our support of PGR students across the
 School is demonstrated in part by the University’s recent success in the Advance-HE
 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES), where we ranked first for supervision and
 second for overall satisfaction. In Health Sciences, 92% of students felt that their supervisors
 had the skills and subject knowledge to support their research and expressed an 88% overall
 satisfaction.

 These PGR student successes reflect a portfolio of initiatives undertaken during the period. For
 example, all research students are active members of the R&I groups which are brought
 together in our two R&I themes. This ensures breadth and quality of interactions, mentorship,
 and exposure to large-scale research programmes. Although the character of each research
 group is unique, the theme structure promotes a wider sense of community and provides
 additional access to a variety of subject expertise to foster interdisciplinarity.

 Further support is available for PGR students to nurture their development as academics and
 researchers. All students participate in research ethics training within the University-wide
 Research Student Induction programme. Students can enrol on the Post-Graduate Certificate in
 Teaching in Higher Education and are encouraged to dedicate 20 hours per year on developing
 their transferable skills, based on Vitae, the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers. We delivered a total of 131 Vitae-based training workshops in the period. To
 further supplement the annual University-wide Research Skills week, a fluid offering supports the
 training and professional development of PGR students, which includes evening sessions to
 cater for flexible study. Colleagues from all Schools, including Health Sciences contribute to its
 delivery with 40 sessions held during the first COVID-19 wave (April to July 2020). Building on
 this, Health Sciences PGR students are also invited to participate in workshops delivered as part
 of the MRes module, ‘Developing Skills for a Career in Research’.

 Support and Promotion of Equality and Diversity (E&D)
 Consistent with our University’s mission statement, we are committed to all aspects of equality,
 diversity, and social inclusion. Health Sciences was awarded an Athena SWAN Charter Bronze
 Award (April 2017), recognising advancement of gender equality, representation, progression,
 and success for all. We currently have a working group targeting Silver Award status by 2023.
 Early progress is encouraging, with a recent independently commissioned Staff Survey (2019)
 reporting 89% positive School responses for questions relating to E&D.

 The University’s Recruitment and Selection Guidelines mandate a systematic approach to
 ensure all staff are selected solely on merit, with discrimination on the grounds of any protected
 characteristics explicitly forbidden. Notable achievements of the University’s Strategic Equality
 Plan (2016-20) include the establishment of Women’s, Disabled and BAME Networks, revised
 Equality in the Workplace Training, and implementation of Unconscious Bias Training. A review
 of the Health Sciences REF2014 submitted staff revealed a gender imbalance, particularly at
 senior level. Several initiatives were introduced to address this imbalance and other issues
 raised, including:

    -   legitimising time spent on research by ensuring research objectives are included in all
        academic staff performance reviews;
    -   supporting conversations with line managers for arranging research time to fit around
        caring responsibilities;
    -   identifying potential research leaders at an early stage and encouraging attendance at
        the University’s ‘Women to Professor’ workshops;
    -   introducing ‘committee-free periods’ at the end of the spring and summer terms, and
        before school holidays start, to ensure diary space is available for staff to spend time on
        research;
    -   restructuring Teaching and Learning roles to free up time for R&I activities;

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    -   applying for a 1-week period for writing, to remove certain student-facing responsibilities
        and create protected time;
    -   establishing a University-wide Women’s Network, led by a Health Sciences academic
        staff member (Freeman).

 These initiatives contributed to 20 of the 34 researchers returned in this submission being
 female (59%, an improvement on the 41% submitted to REF2014). This closely reflects the
 current gender balance within Health Sciences (62.5% female). Furthermore, our staff
 represented 37% (n=16) of all participants attending the University ‘Women to Professors’
 workshop during 2018-2020. As a result, 11 of our female staff members have been awarded 3
 Professorships and 6 Readerships during the period, with 2 having passed the prima facia case
 stage for Readership. Alongside peer support and mentoring, the workshop makes routes and
 requirements for promotion explicit and encourages attendees to align objectives within
 performance reviews. Five of our female staff are in key leadership positions: School of Sport
 and Health Sciences, Dean (Thirlaway), Centre for Health, Activity and Wellbeing Research,
 Lead (Crone), Graduate Studies Coordinator (Mercer), REF Coordinator (James D), and HTA,
 University Designated Individual (Kelly).

 In line with University policies (Flexitime and Flexiplace), all essential meetings for staff and
 students take place within core working hours (10am-3pm) with dates communicated at the
 beginning of the academic year to ensure attendance can be planned. Work is also ongoing to
 ensure family-friendly policies, such as making flexible working and parental leave more
 accessible. Guidance is provided for implementing policies, for example, advice on putting in
 place arrangements to support parental or planned sickness leave and return to work after an
 extended period of leave. With 20% of our REF returned staff working part-time, we have
 embraced the University’s flexible working policy to fit around caring responsibilities and remote
 working options, with many local level agreements put in place to meet the needs of the
 individual. We have a flexible approach to PGR study and students have the option to suspend
 or change their enrolment from full to part-time (or vice versa) if their personal circumstances
 change. This enabled four students to take a combined total of seven periods of parental leave
 during this REF cycle.

 Last year, the University launched a new Strategic Equality Plan (2020-24), setting out an
 approach to exceed legislative requirements, to advance and support equality, diversity and
 inclusion. Health Sciences is dedicated to following this plan and is committed to implementing
 and influencing positive change through the promotion of equality of opportunity within the sector
 and wider community, during the next REF period.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 As a result of our strategy to increase and diversify R&I income we secured circa £7.6 million in
 research funding during this REF period. This included a 50% increase in ‘cherished’ funding
 from sources such as Horizon 2020 and UKRI. This growth was supported by a capital
 investment of circa £2.8 million in the infrastructure and R&I facilities, with a further £349k in
 PGR student provision.

 Income
 Competitive External Funding
 The FIC secured £5.5 million in research income during the period, including £1.1 million from
 the European Regional Development Fund for the HELIX project (Lloyd). International research
 collaborations yielded a further circa £750k, including: the European-funded FRAILOMIC project
 (£400k from a total funding of £11.9 million; Erusalimsky) to identify biomarkers for diagnosis
 and prognosis of aging-related frailty; a Horizon 2020 / Marie Sklodowska-Curie Actions project
 (€252k; McDonnell) in collaboration with Columbia University, New York, USA, to support the
 transformation of methods to assess blood pressure and haemodynamic monitoring in patients
 fitted with a left ventricular assist device (LVAD); and, the Rights, Equality and Citizenship (REC)


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funded Light4Violence project (£100k; Bowes) to support work with schools and young people
 across Europe to reduce domestic violence and help build healthy relationships.

 We were also successful in attracting over £1.5 million through 19 knowledge transfer projects
 (KESS 2). This included a £380k contribution from external partners that enabled employees to
 undertake innovative research projects that address organisational need, underpinned by
 original research. For example, projects with the Welsh Blood Service to increase the shelf-life of
 blood components for transfusion (James P) and to improve blood donation in young people
 (James D, Seage), and with Micro Pharm Ltd to develop an anti-TNF antibody (Morris).

 Government funding of £307k through Health & Care Research Wales, established: The Stroke
 Hub Wales (£240k; James P), a coordinated network and central resource that facilitates stroke-
 related R&I across Wales; and the GP Ability study (£50k; Lewis JE) to pilot peripheral arterial
 disease screening in diabetic patients attending GP surgeries across all seven Health Boards.
 Research funding for the development of healthcare professionals totalling £141k included: five
 Research Capacity Building Collaboration (RCBC) PhD (podiatry, pharmacy, dietetics, and
 occupational therapy); one MPhil (podiatry); and three ‘First into Research’ (pharmacy, dietetics,
 and podiatry) Fellowships.

 Further funding, totalling circa £700k, was secured through charitable bodies. This included: a
 British Heart Foundation project (£210k; James P) that first identified the presence of adipocyte-
 derived vesicles in the human circulation; Jane Hodge Foundation (£156k; Jenkins) and
 Waterloo Foundation (£130k Jenkins) funding to investigate the role of Manuka honey in the
 management of respiratory infections in cystic fibrosis; two Tenovus funded projects (£50k;
 Evans) to evaluate the acceptability of food-safety and nutrition interventions for carers of
 chemotherapy patients; and, the Sir Halley Stewart Trust (£50k; Beeton) for the development of
 a rapid, cost-effective point of care diagnostic test for the detection of Ureaplasma infection
 among preterm neonates.

 Funding was also secured through contract research and knowledge transfer activities with
 industry. For example, The Centre for Health, Safety and Environment secured circa £315k to
 monitor and mitigate potential risks to the health of workers following exposure to bioaerosols at
 waste treatment facilities (i.e., Energy from Waste, Mechanical Biological Treatment, In-Vessel
 Composting and Waste Transfer Station).

 Competitive Internal Funding
 We also secured £356k in the REF period through several internal University competitive
 funding streams and pump-priming initiatives:

    -   Get Started (£31k) seed corn funding aimed at early career researchers, which Beeton
        (£1.6k, 2015) used to develop his research to secure Halley Stewart Trust funding
        (£50k);
    -   Accelerate (£21k) funding to aid early career researchers with grant submission that
        McDonnell (£2.8k, 2015) utilised to nurture his ‘HIT LVAD’ research, which in turn
        resulted in securing Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions funding (€252k);
    -   Research and Enterprise Investment Fund (£77k) to support promising research ideas to
        bring them to fruition enabled Lewis JE (£14k, 2015) to develop a diabetic foot screening
        trial that led to WG Health & Care Research Wales funding (£50k) for the national
        diabetic screening intervention (which expanded internationally, to form an impact case
        study for the current submission).

 We have also invested circa £100k per annum from our R&I budget to help achieve specific
 School strategic priorities. Approximately £50k was used for matched funding to support
 competitively awarded pilot projects. An innovation small grant scheme (circa £20k per year) and
 research pilot scheme (circa £30k per year) supported intellectual property protection; teaching
 replacement; equipment purchases; and external engagement activities. Projects benefitting
 from these early start-up monies (Erusalimsky, Evans, Kelly, Lewis JE, Maddocks,

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 McDonnell, Zhao) have all developed into full, impactful research programmes. In addition, we
 provided match-funding for external part-funded PhD Studentships. For example, up to 50%
 funding was awarded to two successful Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol (CCC) PhD Scholarships
 (£30k).

 Infrastructure
 The infrastructure in place at University and School level has been integral to us realising our
 strategic priorities. Responsibility for leading and fostering research within Health Sciences lies
 with the ADR (James, P) who, in conjunction with the School’s Executive Management and
 Planning Team, is responsible for operationalising the School’s strategic priorities for research,
 driven by the University strategy (2018-2023). Health Sciences also has an Associate Dean
 Innovation (ADI; Sykes) who, works closely with the ADR to coordinate R&I strategy and
 governance. Advised by a strong team of senior staff, including a Graduate Studies Coordinator
 (Mercer), a HTA Designated Individual (Kelly) and a REF Coordinator (James, D), research is
 integral to our strategic planning processes. This is operationalised through research group
 leads, individual staff performance reviews and annual monitoring through the setting and
 reviewing of key R&I targets (i.e., Measures of Success). A School R&I Committee is
 responsible for overseeing all R&I related activities including policy, strategy, facilities,
 operations, and performance. The Research Degrees and Ethics Committees feed into the R&I
 Committee. A pan-University R&I Committee, chaired by the PVC R&I is responsible for
 overseeing all University R&I activities and is supported by a centralised Research and
 Innovation Services (RIS) Unit.

 R&I and Technical Support Staff
 We have a well-established infrastructure for supporting R&I. A dedicated R&I Manager
 coordinates administrative and governance support, providing advice and assistance to staff and
 PGR students on ethics approval, research funding and research governance processes. The
 R&I Manager is supported by two additional administrative staff who have principal
 responsibilities for finance / budgets, and ethics / REF, respectively, and who provide a range of
 services to staff in support of their R&I activities.

 We also have a Technical Support Unit consisting of eleven FTE staff, four of whom are
 dedicated to R&I projects. Technical staff also provide support to the HTA Licence Designated
 Individual (Kelly) and Person Designate (Duggan) to operationalise a robust human samples
 quality management system.

 Capital Investment
 The strategic allocation of capital funding (circa £400k per annum) is central to us achieving our
 research priorities. This includes purchase of new equipment, for example £70k on a new
 Cytoflex Flow cytometer, a £32k Nanoparticle Tracking Analyser (Malvern NanoSight Ltd) and a
 £35k Microplate Reader (BMG Labtech Ltd). We dedicated £60k per year for maintenance of
 existing IT resources, £50k for the maintenance of scientific equipment and £25k to matched
 funding for laboratory costs during the period.

 Our commitment to the next generation of researchers is illustrated in the increased investment
 of School funds into our PGR cohorts. Between the beginning and end of the REF period, we
 increased our annual investment in PGR students 2.5-fold (Table 3), with an overall investment
 of £349k since REF2014. Importantly, £500 per year is ring-fenced for every PGR student for
 personal development activities such as attendance at training events or presenting their
 research at academic conferences.

 Table 3: Health Sciences Investment for PGR Students
  Financial Year                                                                         Total
                                                                                         REF-
  2013-14     2014-15      2015-16     2016-17      2017-18     2018-19      2019-20
                                                                                         period
  £22,394     £32,275      £56,417     £59,022      £56,454     £68,201      £54,710     £349,473


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Facilities
 Since 2014, our research environment and facilities have been strategically enhanced through
 capital investment, for example, the refurbishment of bespoke Biomedical Sciences (£350k) and
 Dental Technology laboratories (£70k). This builds on considerable investment during the latter
 part of the last REF period where purpose-built specialised R&I units were co-housed in
 adjoining units. The benefits of co-localisation have gained considerable traction during the
 current REF period. For example, the FIC has a Sensory Analysis Suite, a fully equipped
 Simulated Food Production Plant, and an Observation Kitchen to facilitate video recording of
 food hygiene / preparation which acts as a catalyst to bring together expertise across food
 manufacture, product design and food science technology.

 The Health Assessment Suite, a purpose-built facility comprising a reception area, a clinical
 laboratory, and consulting rooms, are in close proximity to the Biomedical Sciences research
 laboratories. With patient safety in mind, the facility is located with easy access for the elderly,
 those in wheelchairs or those requiring ambulance transport. Since 2014, the facility has
 supported the successful completion of 10 clinical trials, including a COVID-19 antibody
 screening trial (740 staff) initiated in March 2020 in response to the global pandemic. Overall,
 the Health Assessment Suite has facilitated the participation of circa 5,700 individuals (both
 patients and public) in R&I projects. This is in addition to hosting specialist podiatry, speech and
 language therapy, and complementary healthcare clinics. The facility comprises:

    -   the Wales Centre for Podiatric Studies, delivering eight NHS podiatric clinics per week, a
        Gait Laboratory, Orthotics Laboratory and the Anatomy and Physiology Skills Laboratory
        to support podiatric research (Curran, Gwynne, Lewis JE).
    -   a Clinical Cardiovascular Facility, with state-of-the-art equipment to assess the complex
        interactions between cardiac, large artery, small artery, microvascular structural and
        functional measures of circulatory health. Clinical trials completed within this cycle
        include ARCADE (150 chronic obstructive pulmonary disease patients), ACCT (250
        hypertensive patients), AMUS (250 healthy ageing individuals), and Health MOTs (circa
        500 staff and members of the public) (McDonnell).
    -   a Clinical Simulation Suite provides researchers with a small-scale representation of a
        hospital ward. It houses clinical consultation / observation rooms, a mock ward area,
        clinical laboratory and computer monitored simulation manikins. The area is fitted with
        cameras and recording equipment which facilitate the observation and study of
        communication / counselling skills, infection control, hand hygiene, and training in Good
        Clinical Practice (Evans, Fairchild).
    -   the Complementary Healthcare Suite includes two bodyworks treatment rooms that
        supported over 800 appointments per year, with around 50% at the reflexology clinic.
        Three funded feasibility studies into breast-cancer-related lymphoedema, recruited 36
        women with post-mastectomy lymphoedema (Whatley).
    -   the Speech and Language Therapy and Hearing Science Laboratory contains a full
        range of speech recording equipment and audiological facilities, with recent WG funding
        for an advanced computer with Artificial Intelligence technology. Currently, more than
        600 clinical data points have been collected from 300 children with otitis media with
        effusion (OME) which is being used for developing machine learning tools that will enable
        automated diagnosis of childhood OME. The laboratory is also regularly used for speech
        perception and production experiments, such as a recent accent perception study
        involving 75 participants (Mayr, Zhao).

 R&I Biomedical Research Laboratories are purposely distinct from the Teaching and Learning
 Laboratories and house specialist laboratory space for nine principal investigators (Adams,
 Aicheler, Beeton, Erusalimsky, James P, Livingstone, Maddocks, Morris, Webb). They
 include a purpose-built tissue culture facility, licenced human tissue freezer bank, chemical
 analysis suit, and laboratory space for R&I projects. These provide support for core techniques,
 with most analyses undertaken in-house. The Psychology Postgraduate and Research Centre
 (PARC), a purpose-built suite of dedicated research cubicles, and an observation / focus group
 room are utilised by a wide range of qualitative researchers across the University (Clayton,

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Etheridge, James D, Mercer, Phillips, Rhys). Designed to carry out cognitive and psycho-
    physiological investigations, the PARC also facilitates quantitative research that employs
    techniques such as eye-tracking and contains hardware / software for physiological
    experimentation for example, BIOPAC, Open Sesame and E-Prime (Hodgetts, Perham, Watt).

    Researchers in Health Sciences also benefit from the use of other specialist facilities, both within
    the School and across the University. Examples include:

        -    a purpose-built School Biomechanics Research Facility, an enhanced physiology
             laboratory for software analysis of cardiac and vascular mechanics, respiratory analysis
             equipment for cardiopulmonary exercise tests and equipment for a new cardiac
             rehabilitation centre. These facilities enhance our cardiovascular physiology research
             capability.
        -    in collaboration with the University’s International Centre for Design and Research, our
             Dental Technologists have made use of 3D design and manufacturing technology to
             design bespoke maxillofacial implants.
        -    the £147k Perceptual Experience Laboratory, a mixed reality laboratory that can simulate
             real world environments using immersive sound, smell, temperature, and vision, and
             which enables FIC researchers to investigate consumer behaviours.

    External strategic alliances have also facilitated access to a wide range of world leading
    facilities, for example: Columbia University Medical Centre, New York, USA (McDonnell);
    Washington University, Washington, USA (Maddocks); Zhejiang Chinese Medicine and Sichuan
    Universities, China (Zhao); Cardiff University’s Brain Research Imaging Centre (McDonnell),
    Centre for Neuropsychiatric, Genetics and Genomics (Kelly); and Rheology Centre, Morriston
    Hospital, Swansea (James P, Morris). Additional alliances enabled us to benefit from the loan
    of thermal imaging equipment from London Fire Service for tracking lymphatic fluid movement
    for reflexology research (Whatley). We also benefitted from a collaborative research agreement
    with Baker Technologies to beta-test and house hypoxia chambers within our R&I facility.
    Moreover, we loaned two state-of-the-art Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) instruments to the
    Government to run COVID-19 PCR-tests at its Centre in Milton Keynes.

    4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

    Health Sciences has collaboration at its core and fosters a thriving network of national and
    international partnerships to engage in world-leading research. Our global reach across 172
    different projects extends to 56 different countries (73 Europe, 35 Asia, 28 Americas, 19
    Oceania, 17 Africa) during the census period. Our research makes a substantial contribution to
    the economy and society through our high-quality impactful research and agile infrastructure,
    which is responsive to our partners’ priorities and public health challenges. For example, in
    response to the COVID-19 pandemic in March 2020 we secured two Sêr Cymru5 research
    projects: COPE-Cymru exploring public perceptions of the pandemic and impact on health-
    related behaviours (Phillips, Crone, Hallingberg, James D, Perham, Seage, £102k); and the
    impact of COVID-19 on the effectiveness of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition in
    patients with hypertension (McDonnell, £98k).

    Collaboration / Partnership
    Underpinned by our strong commitment to and established track record in applied science and
    allied health disciplines, we are strongly integrated within a large network of external
    stakeholders, enabling our research groups to nurture high-quality, outward facing, impactful,
    collaborative, and interdisciplinary research. These partnerships broadly encompass a) industry,
    b) healthcare, and c) academic institutions, all of which have direct influence on society, public
    health, policy, and government.


5
    Ser Cymru is part funded by the European Investment Structural Funds (ERDF- European Regional Development Fund)




                                                                                                                      Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a) Industry
 FIC’s membership of the prestigious European Institute of Innovation and Technology (EIT
 Food), Europe’s leading food innovation initiative, enables access to some of Europe’s leading
 food industries and Universities for collaborative research. The Centre has collaborated with
 numerous partners including the International Association of Food Protection, 3M, Food
 Standards Agency, and Institute of Grocery Distribution. As an example of one of FIC’s funded
 projects, HELIX delivered circa 150 interventions per annum within food companies (Evans,
 Lloyd, Redmond, Tatham). Further contributions of this programme are summarised in Table 4.

 Table 4: HELIX Project Outputs
                 Indicator                                          Number
                 Jobs safeguarded                                   1120
                 Jobs created                                       214
                 Participants in training                           234
                 New products                                       305
                 New markets accessed                               129
                 New companies supported                            64

 Wider examples of our R&I collaboration with industry partners are evidenced by the global ‘May
 Measurement Month’, a blood pressure screening initiative (McDonnell is the British and Irish
 Hypertension Societies UK and Ireland lead) funded by Servier Pharmaceuticals™, Omron
 Healthcare™ and the International Society of Hypertension and supported by the British Heart
 Foundation. Recognised globally for fostering understanding of hypertension prevalence and
 management worldwide, between 2017 and 2019, 22,000 members of the public from the UK
 and Ireland were screened as part of this study. More recently and in response to urgent societal
 need, a collaboration with Confirm BioSciences (USA) and the Specialist Virology Centre
 (University Hospital of Wales), initiated a COVID-19 antibody testing programme of research
 across the University to identify thrombotic risk in 740 asymptomatic staff (James P).

b) Healthcare
Our primary collaborating partner and key stakeholder is the NHS, where we serve as an
enabling academic partner for conducting robust research. This has yielded six Honorary
Appointments / Visiting Professors for NHS employees to undertake research at our University.
Two of our clinical research staff have also been awarded honorary clinical contracts (Lewis JE
podiatry, Stubbings psychology).

 Our staff (James P, Matthieson) are members of Partnership Boards (Cwm Taf Morgannwg,
 Aneurin Bevan, and Velindre University Health Boards), integral to developing successful,
 translational research. Crucially, this supports the award of WG’s ‘University’ status for these
 organisations. Furthermore, membership of the Welsh Wound Innovation Centre (James P,
 Board Director) and Welsh Blood Service have yielded partnership agreements, strengthening
 existing research collaborations. Successful outcomes of our range of partnerships include nine
 PhD / MRes studentships. We have also contributed to Health Board activities across
 community dentistry (Lewis J), dietetics (Squire), applied psychology (Heggs, James D,
 Seage) and podiatry in relation to wound healing in the diabetic foot (Lewis JE). Lewis’ work is
 integral to the Wales Centre for Podiatric Studies, based in Health Sciences, where other
 research activities include assessment of foot-type, foot-function, and their relationship with
 proximal musculoskeletal pathology (Curran, Gwynne).

 Stroke Hub Wales, funded by the WG, is a coordinated network and central resource led by and
 based in Health Sciences (James P). This Hub facilitates support for stroke research and
 communication between Wales’ seven Health Boards, Wales Ambulance Services Trust, and all
 Welsh Higher Education Institutions. The Hub has set up a stroke-specific Public & Patient
 Involvement (PPI) Group that links research to patient and public understanding for co-
 production, attended by 65 individuals and runs monthly.



                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Public health and wellbeing policies and practice are central tenets of our research activity,
 nationally and internationally. Examples include:

    -   Research focussed on social prescribing (art, physical activity) for health and wellbeing
        (Crone) has had direct impact on practice and policy, resulting in commissioning of
        bespoke interventions. This has resulted in representation on expert advisory panels for
        Public Health England’s ‘Every Mind Matters’ campaign and a Canada-wide initiative for
        the development of national guidelines for the use of physical activity for people with
        depression.
    -   Research within forensic settings (Bowes, De Claire, Watts) has informed the
        management of alcohol-related violent behaviour in prisoners and attachment styles of
        adults in secure mental health care settings. The Rights, Equality and Citizenship (REC)
        funded Lights4Violence project worked with schools and young people across Europe to
        reduce domestic violence and help build healthy relationships.

c) Academic Institutions
Our staff have collaborated with 105 Universities outside of the UK, across all continents, during
the census period, often in partnership with other agencies. For example, our world-leading
FRAILOMIC research partnered a consortium of six European Universities, the WHO, two world-
leading research centres, seven small and medium-sized enterprises and four hospital-based
research groups and resulted in the discovery of a frailty prognostic indicator [patent
WO2020/01235152A1] (Butcher, Erusalimsky). In addition to this is the European Cooperation
in Science and Technology (COST) funded Vascular Ageing Network including academic
institutions from across 35 countries globally, to refine, harmonise and promote the use of
vascular ageing measures in clinical practice (McDonnell). We also collaborated with:

    -   University of Washington, Seattle, USA, on a programme of research to develop novel
        topical antimicrobial treatments for chronic wound infection (Maddocks);
    -   Bond University, Australia, to develop High Intensity Interval Training protocols to reduce
        cardiovascular risk (Adams);
    -   University of Western Australia, Perth, on using an ovine model to understand the impact
        of Ureaplasma infection in utero and examining possible novel treatments (Beeton).
    -   Middle Eastern and African Universities to develop sanitation and hygiene practices to
        reduce diarrhoea occurrence among schoolchildren (Karani);
    -   Zhejiang Chinese Medicine University and Sichuan University, China to test the
        application of machine learning to predict noise induced hearing loss (Zhao).

 We also engaged widely in research with Wales and UK-based Universities, including:

    -   Cardiff and Swansea Universities, a collaborative Cardiovascular Research Network
        Wales programme in vascular disease, arrhythmia, and large patient databases
        (McDonnell, James P).
    -   Cambridge University, three large-scale hypertension clinical trials; The Anglo Cardiff
        Collaborative (ACCT), The Assurance Medical and Underwriting Society (AMUS), and
        The Ancestry and Biological Informative Markers for Stratification of Hypertension (AIM-
        HY) (McDonnell).
    -   Bournemouth University, on the use of a virtual reality app for simulation of dementia to
        help podiatry students understand its impact on gait (Curran).

 Contributions to Research Base and Society
 Our staff contribute to the wider research base through board memberships and advisory roles
 with policy makers, research governing bodies and beneficiaries. Examples during the census
 period include:

    -   Sykes played a key role within the WHO-Collaborating Centre for Chemical Incident
        Management, undertaking research and development into the public health implications
        of maritime chemical incidents. Sykes was also Chair of Waste Industry Safety and

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Health (WISH), the Bioaerosol Sub-group of WISH and the National Resource Wales
        Universities Wales Research Group.
    -   McDonnell is Vice-Lead and the Ambassador for Wales for the Global Vascular Ageing
        Network.
    -   Lloyd is Vice-Chair of the Welsh Food and Drink Industry Board which advises the
        Minister for Environment, Energy and Rural Affairs (MEERA). Lloyd also provided
        strategic direction for the Welsh Food and Drink Industry Strategy and headed a review
        of the sector’s ‘operational health’ during the initial COVID-19 outbreak. Lloyd was also
        commissioned by WG on behalf of MEERA to lead a COVID-19 Food Clusters taskforce
        resulting in several industry-driven interventions to support the recovery of the food
        sector as a result of the pandemic.
    -   Adams is Vice-Chair of both the Engineering Subject Panel and Food Sustainability
        Panel of the European Commission Research Executive Agency.
    -   Seage provided expert review for the NICE pre-referral briefing for the treatment of
        Pernicious Anaemia.
    -   Crone is a Non-Executive Director for Public Health Wales.
    -   James D is an Expert Member of NHS Wales Research Ethics Committee.

 Over 40 members of staff contribute to professional bodies and learned societies and are
 recognised for substantive contributions through Fellowships and elected Memberships. For
 example:

    -   Fellows: Erusalimsky, Adams, Webb (Royal Society of Biology), James D (Royal
        Pharmaceutical Society), Maddocks (Institute of Biomedical Sciences), Mercer (British
        Psychological Society), Sykes (Chartered Institute of Environmental Health)
    -   Honorary Fellows: McDonnell (Australian School of Advanced Medicine, Sydney,
        Australia and Columbia University, New York, USA – one of eight Ivy League Schools in
        the USA and a Global Top 15 University).
    -   Honorary Academic Positions: Lewis JE (Senior Lecturer, School of Medicine, Cardiff
        University; Clinical Academic, Cardiff & Vale University Health Board), James P
        (Professor, Dartmouth Medical School, USA; Professor Adelaide Medical School,
        Australia), McDonnell (Adjunct Professor, Columbia University, New York, USA) and
        Morris (Professor, Swansea University).
    -   Reference Group Membership: Adams (WEFO European Expert Group; International
        and Cross-Border sub-group; Welsh Assembly Cross-Party Group for Medical Research)
        and Lewis JE (International Working Group for Diabetic Foot).
    -   International Network Memberships: Karani (Qatar Ministry of Defence and Ministry of
        Interior), Thirlaway (Banco Santander W30 Program, University of California) and Kelly
        (Network for European CNS Transplantation and Restoration).
    -   National Research Network Membership: Bowes (Offender Health Research Network
        Cymru), Phillips (Health Psychology Exchange National COVID-19 Group; Public Health
        Wales Physical Activity and Nutrition Network), Thirlaway (Wales Public Health
        Improvement Research Network) and Watt (Offender Health Research Network Cymru).

 Further evidence of contributions made by staff and their research standing is evidenced by the
 following indicators of esteem (Table 5):




                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Table 5 – Staff Contributions to Wider Research Base
       Indicators of Esteem                                                      Count
       Journal Editor / Associate Editor                                           9
       Journal Editorial / Advisory Board Memberships                             26
       Journal Reviewer                                                           169
       PhD External Examiner                                                      96
       The Conversation UK Authorship                                             66
       Referee for Research Grants / Funding Bodies                               44
       Membership of Boards of External Advisory Bodies                           29
       External Research Committee / Society Membership                           44
       Invited Keynote Lectures / Symposia                                        74
       Books / Book Chapter Authorship / Editorial                                19

 Our staff are sought to provide expert review of grant applications for prestigious funding bodies
 such as: Medical Research Council (Adams, Erusalimsky, Green, Kelly, Zhao); Wellcome
 Trust (Adams, Erusalimsky); British Council (Adams); National Institute for Health Research
 (Morris, Zhao); Economic and Social Research Council (Thirlaway) and British Heart
 Foundation (Erusalimsky, James P). Further evidence of our staff’s international standing and
 contribution to the research base is reflected in the number of invited keynote addresses and
 presentations. Staff have delivered over 70 keynote lectures during the census period, most at
 international conferences, including: Beeton (European Mycoplasma Conference, 2019),
 Maddocks (International Meeting of Antimicrobial Peptides, 2015) and Zhao (Pacific & Asia
 Speech, Language and Hearing Conference, 2015). A further nine staff have hosted or served
 on the organising or scientific committees of a wide range of international and national
 conferences, including: James P (Chair, International Nitric Oxide Society Conference, 2018);
 Crone (EU International Congress Physical Activity and Public Health, 2018); Mayr
 (International Congress of Phonetic Sciences, 2019); and McDonnell (Asian Pacific High Blood
 Pressure Congress, 2019). Furthermore, Lloyd hosted a visit from Hu Chunhua, Vice-Premier of
 the People's Republic of China (2019).

 Our wider influence is evidenced by contributions to outreach and research communication
 activities, which include:

    -   our seven STEM Ambassadors (e.g., Blaxland, Kelly) engaged with schools regularly to
        promote STEM subjects, while as part of Soap Box Science, Maddocks contributed to
        public outreach events promoting women in science.
    -   our staff (e.g., Aicheler, James, D, James P, Kelly, McDonnell, Seckam) hosted
        quarterly public engagement events, with over 100 attendees, including: clinicians,
        researchers, patients, carers, and members of the public.

 Awards
 Staff have been the recipients of a number of prestigious awards, including: Phillips (winner of
 the paper of the year award, Royal College of General Practitioners, 2019); and Lewis JE
 (winner of the Excellence in Patient Care International Category, Royal College of Physicians,
 2018). Examples of our Doctoral student awards are: Samuel (Rising Star Award, Chartered
 Institute of Environmental Health Excellence, 2018); and Burnley-Hall (The Ian Williams Prize,
 Welsh Cardiovascular Society Annual Meeting, 2017).

 Media Influence
 Our staff use a variety of traditional and non-traditional platforms to disseminate their research.
 Underpinned by their subject-area expertise, 35 staff published 66 papers for The Conversation
 UK which together have been read over 2.5 million times. Five articles resulted in subsequent
 international and national media attention (e.g., Seage – Radio Sydney, Evans – BBC Radio).
 Other staff have provided invited expert opinion for television news and current affairs
 programmes. For example, Evans and Lloyd on food safety (BBC; ITV), Green on manic
 depression (BBC’s Newsnight), Karani on land reclamation and marine environment (Qatar TV,

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reported in Arabic and English newspapers), and Perham on the effect of listening to music on
 reading and comprehension (BBC Radio Scotland; BBC Radio Wales). Our staff have also
 contributed to national and international print media, for example Adams on the impact of
 microplastics found in the food and water system (The National, UAE).

 Our supportive and enabling environment provides a sustainable and vibrant platform for
 achieving high-quality impactful research that has global reach. Over the period, this has
 ensured that Health Sciences has a culture in which research and researchers thrive, and make
 a significant contribution to the research base, economy, and society.




                                                                                         Page 18
