Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Exeter

 Unit of Assessment: 19: Politics and International Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research, and impact strategy

 (a) Overview

 We have grown to be one of the largest and most thematically diverse political science and
 international relations departments in the UK (one of the top six based on 2019 HESA data)
 covering all major subfields in the disciplines. Our mission is to lead in defining and shaping the
 key intellectual agenda in Politics and International Studies through a research environment that
 values collaboration, inclusivity, diversity, and co-production of knowledge with users and
 stakeholders. To achieve this, we have transformed our investment in staff and infrastructure
 into a world-leading research environment to the benefit of all researchers, regardless of
 background or career stage.

 The Department’s strong performance in REF2014 (ranked 5th for world-leading and
 internationally excellent research), built on our RAE 2008 success (ranked 6th for world-leading
 research), has provided a firm foundation for delivering on our research strategy. The past seven
 years have seen a period of unprecedented growth in staff and research success that spans the
 local, the regional to the global and international.

 Key achievements in REF2021 include:

         Vibrant research centres, collaborative practices and robust support that has led to a
          significant and sustained increase in total research grant funding from £5.2 million in
          REF2014 period to £11.9 million in the REF2021 period from major national (UKRI,
          British Academy (BA)), international funders (H2020, ERC, NORFACE) and
          foundations (Leverhulme and Volkswagen Foundation). The boost in research
          income includes three ERC grants awarded for scientific excellence.
         Our inclusive research environment has led to success among early career
          researchers with c.70% winning grant funding including three prestigious early career
          fellowships (Thomson – ESRC Future Leaders; Owen – British Academy
          Postdoctoral Fellowship, Bulmer – Volkswagen Foundation Fellowship).
         Our agility in applying for research funding has led to successful bids for GCRF
          funding (£150k) and the UKRI Rapid COVID-19 Response fund (£420k).
         Our researchers have published 586 peer-reviewed journal articles, 171 book
          chapters, 39 edited volumes and 16 research monographs.
         Our structures and processes that prioritise equality, diversity and inclusivity in
          recruitment and promotion mentoring activities have led to an increase in female
          professors from one to seven.
         We have worked to promote an inclusive and diverse culture through workshops
          aimed at decolonising our curriculum and we have attracted a diverse PhD research
          community (c.50% identify as ethnic minority).

 Research integrity and transparency, adopted from the UK Universities concordant on Research
 Integrity (see 2.10 Institutional Level Environment Statement, hereafter ILES), are
 embedded in our internal monitoring and career mentoring (see Section 2 - People). This
 ensures we meet the highest professional standards of our research communities (see Section


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4 – Collaboration) and nurture continued awareness and practices of open research (see
 Section 3 – Research Infrastructure).

 (b) Context and Structure

 Politics is situated in the College of Social Science and International Studies (ILES 1.3, and
 hereafter College) and our research activity takes place across two campuses – Exeter and
 Penryn (ILES 1.2). Across the two locations, our research centres play a major role in delivering
 the research strategy of the department, with membership in centres coming from both locations,
 to ensure the diversity of experiences are represented in our shared vision for a collaborative,
 dynamic and respectful research culture. The two locations allow us to broaden our research
 themes (e.g., critical security and military studies, gender, and queer politics), promote more
 dynamic impact and engagement networks with local communities in Devon and Cornwall (see
 Section 4c) and engage with interdisciplinary centres at both campuses, leading to sustainable
 practices of collaboration.

 Academic staff, post-doctoral researchers, teaching associates and PGR students are organised
 into four research centres: Centre for Elections, Media and Parties, Centre for Political Thought,
 Centre for Advanced International Studies, and the Exeter Public Policy Group [see Figure 1].
 The boundaries of these centres are porous, and membership is fluid with most staff finding
 secondary intellectual homes in a centre outside their primary unit. This fluidity has encouraged
 the development of two cross-cutting themes that are core areas of research excellence for the
 department [see Figure 1]:

        1) Environment Politics and Policy with key research contributions by members of
        Public Policy (Benson, Russel, and Scott), Political Thought (McKinnon) and Elections,
        Media and Participation (Coan, Saunders, and Willett);

        2) Critical Global Security and Military Studies with members of Advanced
        International Studies (Bulmer, Owen, Powel, Tedesco), Security and Strategy
        (Blagden, Catignani, Thomson) and Political Thought (Prichard).

 Uniting academics from both of our campuses, our research centres have been vital to
 integrating our new staff, allowing opportunities for informal networking, and mentoring of ECRs.
 There are three additional college centres where Politics is the leading discipline, Centre for
 European Governance, the Security and Strategy Institute and the Exeter Q-Step Centre, that
 attract members from across the University.

 These centres provide fora for fostering new research ideas and collaborations through
 seminars workshops and feedback sessions. We are committed to ensuring research
 opportunities for staff on fixed-term teaching-only contracts and they are full and active members
 of research centres. The size of each research centre ensures cover for research leave and
 succession planning for sustainability of thematic research areas, as well as providing research
 development opportunities for postdoctoral researchers and specialist supervision for our PhD
 researchers. Our centres featured prominently in our REF2014 statement and continue to
 provide the key structure, anchoring our research activity across both of our locations.




                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




          Figure 1. Politics Research Centres and Themes, College Centres & University Institutes

 Politics academics work closely as members of leadership at University Institutes – these
 institutes represent a major investment in cross-disciplinary and interdisciplinary research by the
 university (ILES 1.5). Banducci is deputy director at the Institute for Data Science and Artificial
 Intelligence – a hub for data-intensive science and artificial intelligence (AI) activity and lead
 Institute for Exeter’s membership in the UK’s Turing Institute. Lamb was the inaugural director
 [2019-2020] of the International Institute Cultural Enquiry bringing together arts, humanities, and
 social science researchers to address global challenges. Additional interdisciplinary leadership
 includes Willett as co-director of the Cornish Studies Institute and Durie as deputy director at
 the Wellcome Centre for Cultures and Environments of Health. Coan, Jasny, McKinnon, and
 Prichard are members of the Global Systems Institute that tackles environmental problems from
 an Earth systems approach. Benson, Saunders, Scott, and Willett are researchers in the
 Environment & Sustainability Institute leading on research on the social implications of climate
 change. Researchers aligned with these Institutes benefit from access to pump-priming funds,
 substantive cross-disciplinary expertise, networks of external partners for knowledge exchange
 and impact and collaborations for large interdisciplinary bids. Our commitment to an
 interdisciplinary research culture also is evident in the interdisciplinary journals that our outputs
 appear in (e.g., Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, Nature Climate Change and
 Nature Human Behavior).

 In 2017, we established a departmental Equality, Diversity, and Inclusivity [EDI] committee, with
 membership from all ranks, including teaching-only staff. This committee meets quarterly to
 foster EDI across the research life cycle, and ensures departmental strategy and activities are in
 line with and championing EDI principles.

 (c) Research & Impact Strategy
 The strategy set out in our REF2014 environment statement built on our RAE2008
 achievements and had four key objectives:



                                                                                                    Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Objective 1: Strategic staff growth Our REF2014 strategy anticipated increasing staff size
     by, on average, two per year in the five-year period to 2020, ten in total. We have exceeded
     this, hiring an additional 19 staff, bringing our staff numbers to 59 (58.25FTE). This scale of
     investment has allowed us to sustain growth in the priority areas of quantitative methods and
     political psychology as envisioned in our strategy and widen expertise through recruiting staff
     in additional priority areas of politics of the Global South, regional and development studies,
     gender and queer politics, and global security and critical military studies.


    Objective 2: Sustaining existing strengths in research centres Investing in these centres
     as the main drivers for research collaboration, outreach and impact has delivered key
     successes in funded research projects, research outputs and integrating PhD and
     postdoctoral researchers into the department that are detailed below:

         The Centre for Elections, Media and Participation [CEMaP] Stevens leads a
          group working on media and elections that has been awarded ESRC funding to study
          the election media coverage in the British National Elections in 2015, 2017 and 2019
          with Banducci, Coan and Katz. Stevens has also contributed a research
          monograph based on an ESRC grant on security threats, in addition to a monograph
          on political advertising. These projects supported career development for ECRs,
          Kolpinskaya (2019) began as a postdoctoral researcher on the ESRC funded Media
          in Context project and is now a lecturer in British Politics. Bolleyer’s ERC grant
          (2013 – 2018) on civil society and voluntary associations has resulted in an Oxford
          University Press (OUP) book, and research from Reifler’s ERC DEBUNKER project
          has been published in a leading interdisciplinary journal (PNAS). Saunders has
          contributed work on social movements (funded by ERC and ESRC) and Willett on
          the impact of Brexit on Cornwall (ESRC funded).

            Six new hires have increased thematic and regional diversity, with five being women,
            and have further strengthened expertise in party politics (Herman 2018), European
            and EU political behaviour (Stoeckel 2017) and added regional expertise in African
            (Gadjanova 2018), British (Kolpinskaya 2019, Willett 2017) and Greek politics
            (Rori 2017).


         The Exeter Public Policy Group [EPPG] produced work on regulatory burdens,
          internet governance and representation in the EU with the publication of monographs
          by Harcourt, Kröger and Thomann. Harcourt’s OUP monograph was the result of
          ESRC-funded research examining the representation of public interests in Internet
          standard developing organisations. The work on policy learning and expertise in the
          ERC project PROTEGO (2016-2021, Dunlop with Radaelli – Cat B) has led to an
          impact case study (“Shaping Policy Learning on Regulatory Reforms”). ESRC-funded
          work on public services (James and Moseley) has developed behavioural analysis of
          citizens’ responses to performance information and the BA-funded Greasley’s work
          on policy termination. EU-funded research on environmental policy (Russel) has led
          to a rethinking decentralised environmental governance and policy implementation of
          environmental strategies in the academic and policy communities.

            The Exeter Public Policy Group strategically recruited Engeli (2019) at professorial
            level in comparative public policy to join Thomann (2016) and Gouglas (2018) who

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
            work on regulation and governance from a European and comparative perspective.
            Moseley (2015) brings her expertise in behavioural public policy and Cooper (2016)
            brings expertise on women, public policy, and healthcare.

         Centre for Advanced International Studies [CAIS] engages in research at the
          intersection of the domestic and international politics has been supported by diverse
          funders including the ESRC (Baele, Heathershaw, Lewis, Thomson), DFID
          (Heathershaw), British Academy (Owen) and NORFACE (Baele). Thomson’s
          ESRC Future Leaders project which was the first study to to conduct large-scale
          survey of security and defense experts in the UK. Other early career grant success
          includes Owen’s British Academy Postdoctoral Fellowship on participatory
          authoritarianism (2017-2020), Bulmer’s Volkswagen fellowships (2014-2019) and
          Catignani’s ESRC-funded project on the armed forces.

            There is a strong focus on regional politics with Heathershaw’ s work on Central Asia
            and Lewis’s work on Russia leading to manuscript and Dumper’s work on Palestinian
            refugees (Leverhulme Trust Fellowship) published by Columbia University Press. With
            the addition of Allouche (2019) who works on issues of gender and sexuality in the
            Middle East, Mehran (2019) on warlordism in Afghanistan, Fernandez-Molina (2017)
            who works on conflict and international security in North Africa and Loke (2017) who
            works on China as a great power – the regional expertise of Advanced International
            Studies has expanded considerably.

            Bettiza (2017) adds further expertise in the role of religion in foreign policy to existing
            expertise in international security (Stokes) and political violence (Mulaj). Bulmer
            (2017) and Thomas (2018) add to existing expertise in critical security studies.

         Centre for Political Thought (CPT) is one of the UK’s largest, and most ecumenical,
          clusters of political theorists. Prichard, working with Professor Ruth Kinna
          (Loughborough) on an ESRC ‘Transformative Social Science’ award, examined
          anarchy as a constitutional principle and shaped how specific organisations have
          incorporated anarchistic principles into their practices (see ICS – “Anarchist
          Constitutions”). Discrete projects of centre staff have continued to yield significant
          research monographs (Lamb on Thomas Paine with Cambridge University Press
          (CUP) and Muldoon on the German Council movement with OUP).

            We have recruited three outstanding early-career researchers: the work of Lucas
            (2017) and Muldoon (2017) cuts across established sub-field boundaries, bringing
            new interests in feminism and democratic theory (complementing the work of
            Schaap), and that of Carroll (2015) consolidates existing expertise in eighteenth-
            century political thought (Castiglione, Hampsher-Monk, Lamb). McKinnon (2019)
            brings new senior leadership as well as expertise in the increasingly important sphere
            of climate ethics and environmental justice.



    Objective 3: Invest in quantitative research methods expertise Key to addressing this
     objective has been our leadership of the Exeter Q-Step Centre that has grown in scope,
     capacity, and expertise to become a centre of expertise in computational social science
     methods with strong links to the Institute for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence. The
     Centre includes Katz’s work on using machine learning methods to correct for survey

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     misreports (supported by a BA Skills Innovator award) and an ESRC award on new forms of
     data (Banducci).

    Objective 4: Expand range of specialist PhD researcher supervision and training Our
     aim of expanding the range of specialist supervision and training available to our PGRs has
     been achieved through growth in the range of staff research specialisms in our research
     centres (see above) and our inclusion in the Southwest Doctoral Training Partnership’s
     [SWDTP] interdisciplinary pathways in Security, Conflict and Human Rights and Advanced
     Quantitative Methods with additional opportunities including a summer school in Qualitative
     Comparative Methods (2019) and a two-day training session for discourse analysis.



 (d) Future Strategy

 We are committed to creating a research environment that is inclusive and diverse, reflecting the
 world we study. Given our growth over the last REF period, both in terms of staff and research
 income, we will work to sustain the new shape and size of our unit (see Section 2 - People). We
 have four guiding aims to consolidate our growth in research staff and research income:
      1) Ensure our staff growth is sustainable and dynamic by sustaining a research
         environment that allows all researchers to develop to their full potential. We will achieve
         this through the continued monitoring of processes, structures and outcomes by our EDI
         committee including developing and understanding of how to increase researchers of
         colour in our department and applying for Athena Swan accreditation. We will widen our
         successful track record on promoting of early career researchers by working to ensure
         mid-career researchers have access to mentoring and career development
         opportunities to achieve promotion.
      2) Further embed PhD advanced training, including research integrity training, in
         research centres and increase the pool of, and funding for, high quality PhD
         students in the department. Building on our grant success, we will increase the number
         of project-funded studentships and actively seek out opportunities to lead and
         collaborate on bids for centres for doctoral training. To embed training, we will broaden
         Exeter Q-Step training and our partnership in the second stage of the National Centre
         for Research Methods which covers the diversity of methodological approaches
         including training in the principles of reproducibility, research transparency and data
         stewardship to develop a culture of research integrity. Politics is the lead for Exeter’s
         partnership in the centre which was awarded £2.8m from the ESRC to extend its
         operation over another five years (2020-2024).
      3) Develop and extend the reach of our impact and engagement, especially linking the
         international to the local, and deepening existing collaborations with impact partners
         and applying to our ESRC Impact Accelerator Account (IAA) to support these activities
         (Dunlop PI). Dunlop will take forward the activity of Policy@Exeter, which grew out of
         an initial investment from Research England (£335,000 of QR Strategic Priorities Fund,
         2019-2020), to become a focal point for engagement with policymakers at all levels as a
         University-supported Research Network (ILES 2.3).

      4) Thematically, we will invest in targeted growth in key research areas to reflect
         emerging areas of expertise in research centres. We will also draw on the strength of
         our research centres and invest in further developing our cross-disciplinary research
         themes by collaborating with university institutes.




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          Centre for Advanced International Studies will invest in critical military and
           security studies to build on grants to Bulmer (AHRC) on Arts, Culture and Sport
           Supporting Returning Veterans (building on a Volkswagen grant in last REF period)
           and a Leverhulme Trust grant to Thomas on British Interventions in the Middle East.
           This work, across our two campuses, will add strength to the research on critical
           military studies begun by Basham (Cat B) and Catignani. The centre will continue
           its success in the co-production of knowledge with regional scholars that has
           already seen with scholars based in Central Asia (Heathershaw) and South Africa
           (Bulmer). Stokes will lead a project on project exploring how the West perceives
           China funded by a LimeTree Capital Fellowship and Thomson (with Reifler) will
           continue to study elite and public opinion on European common defence and shared
           security (Volkswagen Foundation).

          Centre for Elections Media and Participation will expand its expertise in
           comparative political communication research by building on the ESRC investment
           in elections and media funded grants (Stevens, Katz and Kolpinskaya) and the
           ERC DEBUNKER grant to Reifler. Coan will lead on connecting the centre’s
           computational social science research to the Institute for Data Science and Artificial
           Intelligence.

          Centre for Political Thought will further expand on contemporary social and global
           issues, while engaging in interdisciplinary collaborations. New areas of research
           include rhetoric and ridicule (Carroll) in political thinking; feminist agency and
           politics (Lucas); intergenerational and environmental ethics (McKinnon);
           democratising the digital economy (Muldoon); precarity and democratic politics
           (Schaap); and of healthcare in communities (Durie). Durie will lead on connecting
           work on health to the Wellcome Centre for Cultures and Environments of Health.
           McKinnon (2019) will lead on connecting climate ethics and environmental justice
           to research in the Global Systems Institute and the Environment and Sustainability
           Institute.

          Exeter Public Policy Group will develop its strengths in both environmental policy
           and behavioural public policy and administration research and will build emerging
           expertise on the interplay between citizens, the state and technology. The group will
           develop work on elite policymaking processes including the work of McKay on
           interest groups, Gouglas and Greasley on executives. James will take forward new
           ESRC-funded research on fiscal citizenship and taxation. Regulation and
           governance in a post-Brexit UK and EU will be the central focus for Dunlop and
           Harcourt will focus on Internet and global governance. Further work will engage
           more broadly with environment and sustainability issues as Russel’s on the bottom-
           up climate change adaptation will lead our departmental strength on these issues,
           including the work of Moseley, Benson, Saunders, Scott, and McKinnon.

 We will invest in gender and queer studies, an emerging cross-centre thematic area of expertise.
 Appointments over the last REF period bring expertise in feminist theory (Lucas), gender and
 public policy (Cooper, Engeli), queer politics (Allouche) to existing expertise in feminist
 activism (Maiguashca) and comparative gender and political behaviour (Banducci) to form a
 critical mass for taking forward a research agenda addressing contemporary challenges on
 gender and sexuality. This thematic area will also draw on expertise in comparative gender and


                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 political behaviour and a new module on gender attitudes and sexism (Banducci) selected
 through an international competition, to be included in Round 11 of the European Social Survey.


 2. People

 (a) Overview
 We have focused on increasing gender diversity across all ranks and put EDI considerations at
 the centre of our staff recruitment and development processes and structures. We have worked
 to embed equality and diversity at each stage of our staffing strategy. One significant payoff has
 been a dramatic improvement in the number of women to 30 (compared to 12 in REF2014) and
 their representation at all levels of seniority [see Table below]. The establishment since the last
 REF period of a departmental equality, diversity and inclusivity committee has helped to ensure
 these values are mainstreamed in our recruitment and mentoring processes. The EDI committee
 has also been fundamental in reviewing our overall discipline strategy and our research output
 monitoring processes. Our strong research centres have given us effective informal, research-
 focussed means of welcoming, inducting, and supporting new colleagues.

 We have the support of a college EDI officer and initiatives include “speak out champions” to
 counteract harassment and discriminatory practices, and colleagues have been funded to qualify
 as Stonewall LGBTQ+ role models (Dunlop) and allies (Lamb). Mishra (teaching-only lecturer)
 has been leading departmental training events on building curriculum that is anti-racist through
 decolonising our syllabi and introducing new content that explores power asymmetries and
 discrimination. We are committed to further diversity in the department (see Future Strategy 1.d).

 (b) Staffing Strategy and Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity
 Our ambitious plans to increase staffing numbers by 10 were exceeded allowing us to expand in
 the areas of political theory, regional studies and public policy. Our staffing strategy to embed
 equality and diversity in our recruitment has yielded positive results. We have made 27 hires
 over the last REF cycle of those 19 have been women and, of the three hires at professorial
 level, two have been women (McKinnon 2019, Engeli 2019). Of the new appointments, nine
 have been entirely new posts created through investment by the University including a
 Humanities and Social Science Fellowship (Bormann 2015 – Cat B) with an additional post
 created through Q-Step funding from Nuffield, ESRC and HEFCE (Jasny 2014).


              Grade                  Headcount 2019-2020                Gender (M/F)

             Lecturer                          16                          M:4; F:12
    (including research only)
         Senior Lecturer                       19                          M:10; F:9

       Associate Professor                      8                          M:6; F:2

             Professor                         16                          M:9; F:7

              Total                            59                         M:29; F:30




                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 (c) Workload, Promotion and Recognition
 Researchers are recruited and their careers supported and developed in ways that recognise
 and value the diversity of their contributions across the range of academic activities. Clear
 criteria for promotion at the lecturer level, including publication, grant activity and impact
 requirements, have been set by the college in consultation with HR and agreed by departments.
 The head of the college (Pro-Vice Chancellor) along with the college HR advisor meet with
 lecturers to ensure progress toward these promotion criteria. During the last REF period, all
 eligible lecturers, have been promoted to senior lecturer within five years of start dates. Of these,
 seven have been women.

 We ensure that mid-career staff are supported in similar ways to achieve progression through a
 process where role profiles are detailed and transparent. To redress the lack of women in senior
 positions, the HoD and College have actively encouraged and supported women to apply for
 promotion. In REF2021, seven AP were promoted to Professor, of these four were women;
 seven SL promoted to AP (two women) and another 17 members of staff progressed from L to
 SL (eight women). To build on the success of mentoring our early career staff through the
 promotion from L to SL and then to professorships, we are keen to embed this success at the
 next level and ensure our mid-career staff make the next step from Senior Lecturer to Associate
 Professor and beyond. Lecturers are allocated additional research workload hours to allow them
 to integrate into research community, maintain emerging research agendas alongside teaching
 commitments, and increase activities around research funding opportunities ensuring they meet
 the targets for promotion.

 University policies (ILES 3.4) ensure staff can undertake caring roles and manage work
 throughout the life-course – pregnancy and adoption, paternity, emergency leave to care for a
 dependant and bereavement. The university has designated breastfeeding rooms and offers
 mindfulness training to ease the symptoms of menopause. As a department we strive to
 implement these policies flexibly and with care. Over the last REF period we have supported five
 periods of maternity leave and six periods of paternity leave. Where requested, after periods of
 leave for caring or health, we have accommodated flexible return to work patterns through
 adjusted administrative and teaching loads in negotiation with the HoD with impact on the
 workload of other colleagues monitored. Staff have also been given equipment to set up working
 from home where it has been demonstrated to improve health.

 (d) Mentoring and Professional Development

 Professional and career development are integral to enabling researchers to develop their full
 potential, in line with the University’s commitment to the Concordant on Researcher Career
 Development (ILES 2.9). Our mentoring system is led by Academic Leads (ALs), senior
 members of staff who regularly meet with assigned staff, both formally and informally, including
 undertaking an annual Performance Development Review, which is shared more widely with the
 Head of Department (HoD) and the Directors of Research and Education. ALs support staff with
 career progression and development through a programme of activities in the Exeter Academic
 programme (ILES 3.3). This programme of development (aligned to UK Professional Standards
 Framework) focuses on the skills necessary for academic and research leadership including all
 aspects of research integrity, mentoring and EDI in professional practice.



                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have a large community of postdoctoral researchers linked to funded research projects.
 Over the REF period this has comprised 20 researchers who have had contracts of a year or
 longer. Our postdoctoral researchers can engage in professional development review meetings
 with an AL. They have access to all career development and training opportunities including
 accreditation for teaching in HE. This support allows them to develop their research identity as
 part of their career progression.

 We know it is important to give academic staff periods of uninterrupted research leave to
 develop large and complex research ideas into publications and grant proposals. Research
 leave also allows our researchers to undertake work outside of the UK (fieldwork or international
 visits with leading scholars) and develop skills in key methods. All academic staff, regardless of
 seniority, are eligible to apply for leave every three years. These proposals are evaluated at the
 departmental and college level. Over the last REF cycle, we awarded 43 periods of research
 leave to 32 different members of staff. We facilitated this generous leave policy by each
 research-led teaching cluster (comparative politics, public policy, international studies, and
 political theory) being large enough (>10) to cover the full range of teaching. During the REF
 period, colleagues have used leave to develop successful research proposals (Bulmer, James,
 Moseley), make international visits to broaden collaborative projects (Stevens to Australia
 National University and Loke Nanyang Technological University), finish major monographs
 (Stevens completed his monograph Truth in Political Advertising). An Outward Mobility
 Fellowship funded Betizza’s research leave that he spent at the School of Advanced
 International Studies (SAIS) Johns Hopkins University (2017) to undertake research for his OUP
 monograph.


 (e) PhD Researcher Community

 PhD researchers are vital to our research environment, bringing vitality to our thematic areas
 and pushing innovation in methods, and have been at the centre of our strategic objectives in
 terms enhancing our provision of specialist training. Since REF2014, we made the strategic
 decision to reduce our intake of PhD researchers and concentrate our efforts on improving our
 recruitment, mentoring and the quality of training we offer to our doctoral researchers which has
 meant smaller cohorts. The measures we have taken to improve the experience of our PhD
 researchers include tightening the admission process to ensure the best fit between supervisor
 and student (i.e. our departmental admissions officer assesses the applicant’s potential and then
 the supervisor and admissions officer agree to the fit of supervision), increase in team
 supervision (i.e. meaningful supervision is allocated to a first and second supervisor), all
 students are assigned a mentor to address any issues of their broader academic development,
 and the EDI committee regularly reviews admissions figures to ensure alignment with EDI
 principles. Other measures we have undertaken to improve PhD researcher progression include
 an assessment of written work by an independent review panel in the first year before
 progression to PhD from MPhil status.

 We have worked to increase access to funded studentships. We are successful in competing for
 PhD studentships as part of the ESRC Southwest Doctoral Training Partnership [SWDTP], a
 collaboration between the Universities of Bristol, Bath, University of the West of England,
 Plymouth, and Exeter (ILES 1.8). Politics is awarded, on a competitive basis, one to two SWDTP
 studentships each year in Politics and another two to three in the interdisciplinary pathways in

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 which we participate – Security, Conflict and Development and Advanced Quantitative Methods.
 Because our College match funds each SWDTP studentships, we can double the number of
 students who are funded. We also have studentships awarded through the Global Excellence
 Fund (currently 1), the EPSRC-funded Environmental Intelligence Centre for Doctoral Training
 (currently two) coordinated by Computer Science and Maths, the Wellcome Trust Centre
 Cultures of Health (currently two) and the AHRC South West and Wales Doctoral Training
 Partnership (currently one). These latter studentships, along with co-supervision of students with
 the Environment and Sustainability Institute, open-up interdisciplinary training opportunities for
 our PhD researchers. Three PhD researchers were funded through a European Marie
 Skłodowska-Curie Innovative Training Network (2014-2018) all with a year of industrial
 placement.

 We are now seeing the payoff of increased funding and a more robust recruitment and
 mentoring programme – completion rates have improved (80% completing in 4 years for
 REF2021, up from 60% in REF2014). We are also able to expand the numbers of PhD
 researcher numbers in line with our growth in staff – 57 in 2020 up from 35 in 2016. The
 increased funding opportunities translates into increased diversity in the research environment
 through opening PhD training to students who would not be able to self-fund. We link this as well
 to an increase in diversity among our PhD researchers with c.40% of our current cohort
 identifying as ethnic minority. The increased representation of women among staff is also
 reflected among female PhD researchers making up nearly half (c.45%) of the current cohort.

 PhD researchers participate in both specialist research centre seminars and the
 departmental research seminars. These include the Centre for Elections Media and
 Participation’s ‘Cake for Comments” an innovative bi-monthly meeting where participants can
 pitch research ideas, gain feedback on grant proposals and papers, and eat cake. Similarly, the
 Centre for Political Thought has an active monthly reading group attended by academic staff and
 PhD researchers. This type of open exchange between PhD researchers, supervisors and other
 academic staff has led to co-authored publications with PhD researchers (Demirbilek with
 Benson on water legislation in Turkey and Kamkhaji with Dunlop on training regulatory
 inspectors).

 A postgraduate research conference organised through the SWDTP is held annually, run by the
 graduate students with support from their supervisors. Our PGRs are active in national and
 international conferences as well as participating in and leading our main professional
 associations. Dickinson (PhD 2019) was secretary of the Political Studies Association (PSA)
 Early Career Network (ECN) of over 500 politics PGRs and Kirsop-Taylor (PhD 2018) has now
 succeeded him.

 To support PhD researcher development, a yearly Training Needs Analysis is conducted to
 identify necessary additional training. PhD researchers also access the Exeter Effective
 Researcher Development Programme, with a wide range of skills training in the practice and
 principles of research integrity, transferable skills, and practical issues of thesis completion. Our
 Doctoral College (ILES 3.9) provides additional opportunities for transferable skills training (e.g.,
 academic writing, research integrity) with special online community building and training during
 COVID-19 (e.g., “writing together sessions”).




                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In the REF2021 period, we increased the advanced training opportunities for our PhD students.
 As part of the Research England funded Policy@Exeter, research methods training grants were
 offered to assist with policy-relevant research. Research centres have also invested their
 discretionary budgets in additional advanced training through supporting attendance at summer
 schools (ECPR) and Q-Step bursaries have also supported attendance for three PhD
 researchers at the Essex Summer School. The quality of training has been boosted through the
 Department’s participation as a member of the ESRC SWDTP.

 We have been fortunate to promote some of our excellent PhD researchers to Lecturers,
 sustaining our reputation for excellence in regional studies (Owen) and critical theory (Thomas,
 Bulmer), public policy (Cooper, Moseley) and British politics (Willett). After completing her
 British Academy Postdoctoral Fellowship, Owen, will become a lecturer in the department
 adding to expertise in Central Asia.

 Our PhD researchers have been successful in securing several prestigious awards, internships
 and fellowship while conducting their research. Popp (PhD 2018) was awarded a prestigious
 Turing summer internship to work with Dr Omar Guerero (Turing Fellow) on voting models in the
 Supreme Court in 2017; Zucca (PhD 2019) was selected as a UK Data Service Fellow; Wavre
 (PhD 2017) was awarded a three-year post-doctoral fellowship at the University of St.Gallen;
 Lemon (PhD 2016) was DMGS-Kennan Institute Fellow at the Daniel Morgan Graduate School
 of National Security, Washington DC.

 Notable placements of PhD researchers in academic posts outside Exeter include: Popp (Kent),
 Wang (Chinese Foreign Affairs University), Millican (Durham), Dickinson (Bingham Early
 Career Fellow in Constitutional Studies, Oxford), Anghelescu (Sydney University), Zucca
 (Tillburg), Violakis (South Wales University/IST College), Soremi (Seneca College, Canada),
 Lemon (Texas A&M), Mnatsakanyan (Loughborough), Doolotkeldieva (American University of
 Central Asia), Toktomushev (University of Central Asia), Biao Zhang (China University of
 Political Science and Law), Mnastakanyan (Loughborough University, London), Kerimov
 (University of Central Asia), Kamkhaji (Politecnico Milan). Exeter PhD researchers have also
 secured posts as governmental advisors: Sharan (Deputy Minister in Afghan government) and
 Mavin (HM Inspector of Prisons).


 3. Income, infrastructure, and facilities

 (a) Overview
 Our research income doubled from £5.2million in REF2014 to £11.9million in REF2021. This
 unprecedented growth in research income has outstripped staff growth and has been driven by
 greater income per FTE, increasing from £134k per FTE in REF2014 to £205k per FTE in
 REF021. These increases in funding place us in the top two for external funding in the UK
 Politics departments. We have also increased the diversity of funders to include grants from
 national funders outside the UK (US National Science Foundation, Swiss, Norwegian, Danish,
 and Finnish national research councils) and international (e.g., European Research Council
 (ERC) & H2020) research councils. Our phenomenal growth in research income coincides with
 University and College investments in research infrastructure, including a restructuring of
 professional research support, and investment in new facilities, including a new build and a
 dedicated computing server for use by researchers. The success also reflects our robust internal


                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 processes of mentoring, internal peer review and successful collaborations within and across our
 research centres.

 (b) Research Income
 The research strategy is reflected in the approach to grants with the research centres as the
 main foci for large grant applications, enabling teams of researchers to work together and
 facilitating inter-disciplinary bids. Collaboration within and across research centres on funding
 applications and across has contributed to our increase in grant income with c.50% of grants
 awarded in 2020 including at least two members of staff.

 We also have in place formal processes for encouraging and improving the quality of grant
 applications. First, grant activity is recognised in the progression process with all research
 members of staff expected to engage actively in turning research ideas into proposals. Second,
 academics, with their mentors, outline grant activities as part of professional development
 reviews. Third, in terms of our internal processes, a dedicated seminar series for presenting
 grant proposals in progress, a mandatory internal peer review feedback process and Director of
 Research sign-off for all grant applications, combine to ensure bids are the highest quality
 possible prior to submission. There is significant grant activity with 443 applications submitted in
 REF2021 and c.90% of staff applying for funding with 50 out of 59 staff contributing to our
 overall award success.

 Our investments in supporting early career researchers in applying for research resulted in an
 ESRC Future Leaders award (Thomson), Volkswagen Foundation Senior European Fellowship
 (Bulmer) and a British Academy Postdoctoral Fellowship (Owen). There are formal and informal
 processes in place to support early career researchers. Our Director of Research, with support
 of our research services, identifies and disseminates opportunities for early career researchers
 and there are internal selection and review processes for major early career grants and
 fellowships (ESRC New Investigator, ERC Starter and BA/Leverhulme Postdoctoral Fellowship).
 These structures and processes have been particularly successful in supporting early career
 researchers with nine out of 15 staff at lecturer level being PIs or Co-Is on grants.

 Our emphasis on impactful research combined with research excellence has led to two
 successful knowledge exchange fellowships. Harcourt was an ESRC-funded UK in a Changing
 Europe (UKICE) Fellow (working on post-Brexit communications policy and the digital single
 market and contributed to key findings to White Papers and Cabinet reports (see Section 4c).
 Lewis has been on secondment (2019-2021) as an ESRC-AHRC UK Fellow at the Foreign,
 Commonwealth and Development Office [FCDO] advising on post-Soviet politics with specialist
 knowledge in the following regions: Russia, Central Asia, and the Caucasus (see Section 4c).

 New staff have been integrated into the department and research centres through collaboration
 on funding applications. This model of collaboration sustains our thematic areas by allowing
 ECRs to develop grant writing and project management skills and brings the vitality of ECRs to
 large projects. Gadjanova (ECR) and Reifler received an award from Exeter’s Global
 Challenges Research Fund to examine the role of social media in the recent elections in Ghana;
 Coan (ECR) and Kolpinskaya (ECR) have been co-investigators on ESRC election media
 grants (PI Stevens) and Jasny (ECR) and Coan were co-investigators on an ESRC/NCRM
 Methodological Innovation grant (PI Banducci). These collaborations have also meant ECRs
 have had award success contributing to their case for promotion.

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 (c) Research and Impact Support Infrastructure
 The Department has a comprehensive research support system. Peer review is applied to all
 research applications and is provided for grants to other bodies for less experienced faculty (and
 any other colleagues who request it). This is supplemented by external peer review for major
 bids (in excess of £500k), and external review for amounts below this level where researchers or
 the Director of Research identify that such review would provide necessary expertise or
 independent perspective. This system improves the quality of bids. The University’s Funder
 Advisory Networks (FAN) (ILES 4.5) includes networks facing each major source of social
 science funding that oversee the development of large collaborative bids, provide internal review
 and selection process for competitive schemes such as large research centre bids. The FAN for
 ESRC also provides an initial step and bid development support, including feedback, for planned
 submission to the ESRC’s New Investigator award. Bid development for other ECR research
 schemes, e.g., UKRI Future Leaders Fellows, are supported by the Major Funders’ Strategy
 Group with an internal selection process and preparation for interviews. Politics staff have been
 embedded in these networks and have shaped university strategy (Banducci, Dunlop, James).

 In addition to our advisory networks, which operate at a strategic level, we have an extensive
 network of research support at the University, college and departmental level for research bid
 development and project management support. This includes identifying funding opportunities
 and providing funder-focused expertise, co-ordinating bid development, and bringing people
 together around opportunities. In 2017, our research support underwent a transformation which
 has meant we have more specialised support and access to a specialised Research Toolkit
 (ILES 4.7) to manage our funding applications from bid preparation to post-award.

 In Politics, we are supported by three teams: 1) a team supporting social science bids to UKRI
 and other UK based funder; 2) the International team supporting bids to international funding
 schemes including H2020; and 3) staff based in Penryn are supported in bid development by a
 dedicated team based at our Penryn campus. These teams of research development officers
 manage the bid submission process including budget development, letters of support and
 ensure that all elements of a bid are completed to the highest standard prior to submission.

 The departmental Director of Research has discretionary funds (c. £4,000) to support faculty
 members in several ways, including the organisation of events and travel that have enabled
 international collaboration on both outputs and grant bids. The college-level funding presided
 over by the College’s Associate Dean of Research supports departmental activities that are
 potentially generative of impact case studies. Added to this, during the REF2021 period research
 centres have been given sizable budgets and researchers have access to additional
 discretionary funds (c.£7,500) each year to promote international travel, workshops, and data
 collection.

 (d) Research Monitoring and REF selection
 Our departmental research committee, responsible for research monitoring, disbanded in 2018
 and reformed as our REF committee responsible for output and ICS selection. All members of
 staff, regardless of seniority, are involved in reviewing our research outputs for REF2021
 selection. Scoring processes and criteria are discussed in departmental meetings with all staff
 receiving feedback on submitted outputs. The internal scoring is monitored, including by our EDI

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 committee, for any potential bias and adjusted accordingly. Of our selected outputs, close to half
 are attributed to women. Of our five ICS, one is led by a woman. We are working to identify the
 barriers to diversity in our ICS leadership and how to support women with emerging impact (e.g.,
 Owen, Rori, Thomson, see Section 4c) to develop them into ICS in the next REF period.


 (e) Research Integrity and Open Access
 Our commitment to UKRI’s Concordant on Research Integrity is embedded in the grant
 development and submission process. To ensure integration of open research principles in our
 research and grant development, Open Research at Exeter provides support on open access of
 publications, data management plans and raising awareness of open research issues. Each
 member of staff undertakes a compulsory training module on research integrity including
 processes for ethics approval, open access and information management. Research ethics
 approval is managed by a college committee and supported by a departmental ethics officer and
 research integrity is included in the assessment of all ESRC IAA applications. Beyond
 implementing policies, Politics faculty are shaping University policy on research integrity;
 notably, Heathershaw contributed to a university-wide review of ethics procedures for defence,
 security, and conflict research in 2018 that highlighted researcher safety as a key element.

 Heathershaw is a founding member of the Academic Freedom and Internationalisation Working
 Group (AFIWG) – a new initiative that brings together academics from UK Higher Education
 institutions, relevant civil society representatives and the All-Party Parliamentary Human Rights
 Group (PHRG), to strengthen protection for academic freedom and the academic community
 within the context of the internationalisation of UK Higher Education. They have issued a model
 Code of Conduct to protect academic freedom and increase transparency and accountability
 across the UK Higher Education sector. To advance the code of conduct, the AFIWG has
 formed a network of initiators across UK campuses and maintains a dialogue with UUK and the
 Department for Education.

 This awareness and training ensure staff members adopt openness throughout the research
 cycle, through collaborative working practices and sharing and making research methodology,
 software, code, and data freely available online, along with instructions for using it. Where
 appropriate, members of staff register pre-analysis plans; Exeter Q-Step maintains a GitHub
 repository for code sharing; and 18 data sets were deposited with the UK Data Service in the
 REF2021 period. Open Research Exeter (ORE) supports open access and open research. All
 members of staff are required to submit accepted publications in ORE as a first step in Open
 Access (OA) compliance. Of our submitted research outputs to ORE, there has been over
 10,000 downloads demonstrating the reach of our research achieved through OA. We have
 used University funds to make 45 (c.10%) of our published articles Gold Open Access. To
 promote sharing of our research globally, all Cat A staff are ORCID registered. We integrate the
 principles of open research into our staff development training (new staff induction and
 mandatory training on information governance), online resources through our ORE repository,
 and researcher training through our doctoral training partnership with regional universities
 (SWDTP) and our doctoral college.




                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (f) Research Impact and Innovation
 We have developed a ‘whole of department’ approach to impact which nurtures a wide range of
 impact and engagement activities and colleagues over the long-term enabling us to adapt to
 changing circumstances and maximise flexibility. This “whole of department” vision is
 underpinned by three endeavours: ensuring impact (broadly construed) is generated across all
 Politics’ research themes; supporting colleagues at all career stages; and, filling the pipeline for
 impact beyond audit cycles. To deliver this vision, we have developed a systematic approach
 that includes impact planners for each member of staff, a departmental Director of Impact (a role
 established in 2015) who acts as a point of advice and information for planning impact, and a
 professional development review that includes discussion of impact in the mentoring process.
 We use our workload allocation system strategically to allocate time to staff for developing
 impact case studies or to explore potential partners for impact. In total, 12 members of staff have
 been given a workload allocation over the last REF cycle to support impact work.

 Advice and training on impact for staff has supplemented our informal sharing of experience.
 Each year the department runs an impact and engagement event - e.g., in 2017 we hosted a
 panel discussion on the impact possibilities across our research centres motivated by keynote
 speaker Professor Philippe Van Parijs who spoke on the role and possibilities of action of
 intellectuals in politics. In formal terms, our research outputs records systems also allow for
 capturing impact in planners available. We also have supported staff with research leave, pump
 priming funds and peer workshops to support the development of impact.

 Politics receive targeted support from the University Innovation, Impact and Business [IIB]
 directorate supports collaborations with external organisations to foster impact and generate
 income (ILES 4.8). Impact and partnership development managers with specialist expertise in
 security and conflict; government policy; environment sector, and data science have supported
 the development of partnerships that have contributed to successful projects with the Institute of
 Coding, IBM Centre for Advanced Studies Benelux; DSTL and the Development, Concepts and
 Doctrine Centre (MoD).

 Major support for our impact work comes from IAAs (ILES 4.10). The first ESRC IAA award
 (2014-2018) was extended in 2019 with a block grant of £1.15M to 2023 (PI Dunlop).
 Researchers can apply to fund impact work under four schemes: rapid response, impact
 cultivation, social policy network, knowledge exchange fellowship, plus the larger project co-
 creation and business collaboration grants. Politics has completed 15 IAA projects over the last
 REF period. Funds to support impact work have also come from Research England’s Strategic
 Priority Fund for Policy@Exeter. With this funding Dunlop has led the development of a
 research and training partnership with Sense about Science (SaS).


 (g) Facilities
 There has been major capital investment to provide bespoke facilities for academic staff in
 Politics. The University and College invested £870,000 to completely refurbish and extend a
 campus building to include a new Computational Social Science Lab [CSSL] with 30 new
 high-performance computers for the Q-Step Centre. We use the CCSL for advance training
 workshops, the centre speaker series and additional space for PhD researchers who are linked
 to the Q-Step centre. Q-Step make use of their own powerful Linux server, which is managed by
 Research IT. An additional investment of £11,000 was made to install the server, providing
 QStep staff with dedicated resources to meet their high-performance computing and remote
 processing needs. The server supports a range of funded projects at the Centre and hosts


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 everything from real-time election forecasting models to bespoke software for harvesting and
 analysing media data.




 Figure 2. New Facilities – SafePod and Computational Social Science Lab (Exeter Q-Step Centre)



 To facilitate access to and the use of administrative and sensitive data, the College and the
 Exeter Q-Step Centre were successful in competitively bidding for an ESRC SafePod (worth
 £25,000), a secure way to access sensitive and confidential research datasets. The College
 invested an additional c.£100,000 to create additional desk and storage space.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy, and society

 (a) Overview
 Collaboration is fundamental to the research we undertake in Politics. Our “whole of department”
 approach to collaboration is characterised by co-production of knowledge with international and
 non-academic partners as well as a departmental ethos of partnership with and contributions to
 the wider academic community. We serve as editors on eight journals and hold leadership
 positions within the discipline’s main professional associations. Our “whole of department”
 approach ensures all staff can widen alliances across diverse geographies and stakeholders and
 this was supported through 16 outward mobility grants to four continents. Our collaboration
 partners include the public sector (e.g. NHS), industry (e.g. IBM), and NGOs (e.g. Humans
 Rights Watch).

 (b) Research Networks and Collaboration
 Key regional and national networks. Our co-location in Exeter and Cornwall has allowed us to
 expand our regional collaborations. IAA funding has supported regional collaboration in Devon
 and Cornwall. Willett’s project “Brexit and the Regions: The Case of Cornwall” supported
 collaborations with Cornwall Council, the National Association for Local Councils, the Ministry for
 Housing, Communities and Local Government, and the European Association for Local
 Democracy. This work explored the impact of Brexit in the region. Moseley, collaborating with
 colleagues in Geography, led a large-scale citizen’s assembly in Devon as a response to the
 climate, drawing on her research on citizen engagement in local politics.

 Durie’s collaboration with the C2 National Network of Connected Communities, supported by
 grants from the NHS Modernisation Agency, the Neighbourhood Renewal Unit and Government
 Office South West, has contributed to a better understanding of complex health interventions.



                                                                                                  Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The work has been recognised as a framework for addressing health inequalities, and for
 improving health and well-being, by the NHS Alliance/Clinical Commissioning Groups.

 International collaborations: Our international collaborations extend to formal arrangements
 with universities in China (Fudan), France (Sciences Po) and the QUEX collaboration with
 University of Queensland (McKinnon leads on global environmental futures) to individual
 collaborations that are research centre and project based. The MoU with Fudan led to Owen’s
 invitation to serve as “Ambassador in Europe” at the Fudan Development Institute to support her
 work on Central Asia. McKinnon leads on global environmental futures pathway for the QUEX
 partnership that will strengthen the co-production of research on ‘Global Sustainability and
 Wellbeing’.

 Colleagues are active partners in international collaborative research projects. Kröger’s work on
 European democracy and differentiated European integration and Russel’s work on the
 environment have been supported through large European consortium funded by the EU.
 McKay’s collaboration with scholars from Rutgers University (USA), Stuttgart University and the
 University of Amsterdam to work on agendas and interest groups was funded by an Open
 Research Area grant. Research on misinformation and corrections funded by ERC (Reifler with
 Brendan Nyhan, Dartmouth, and Andy Guess at Princeton), political advertising (Stevens with
 Barbara Allen at Carlton College) and on computational social science (David Lazer,
 Northeastern University) funded by an NCRM Methodological Innovation grant. Collaboration
 with Prof. Stephen Gardiner at Washington University, Seattle, is central to McKinnon’s new
 work on geoengineering. In the last two years, Schaap and Muldoon have established an
 international network on Precarity and Democratic Politics with scholars from the Universities of
 Copenhagen, Lund, and McMaster. The Centre for Political Thought has established a research
 network comprising Chinese Universities (Fudan, Tsinghua, Peking) and universities in France
 (Paris 1, Paris 8) and Italy (Turin) for the study of political thought and ideas from a transcultural
 perspective.

                                       Bulmer’s collaboration with Godfrey Maringira at Sol Paatje
                                       University, Kimberly, South Africa on soldier’s perspectives
                                       of their geographies of deployment has developed over two
                                       Volkswagen fellowships and lead to a special issue of the
                                       Journal of War and Culture Studies. This successful
                                       collaboration was also the also the basis for Bulmer’s
                                       successful AHRC grant “Stories in Transition: Examining the
                                       role of arts, culture and sport in supporting veteran transition
                                       to civilian life”.

                                       Jasny’s collaboration with Dana Fisher (Maryland) on
                                       climate activism, protests, and policy networks has been
                                       supported with funding from the US National Science
                                       Foundation and the MacArthur Foundation. With colleagues
                                       at the US Forest Service, they examined how civic groups
                                       work together to steward their local communities (funded by
 Figure 3. Non-academic Research and   the National Science Foundation). A current project
 Impact Partners
                                       documents the ideological and policy networks operating at
                                       the state and federal levels on climate/clean energy issues.
 Results of this international collaboration have appeared in Nature Climate Change and
 Environmental Research Communication.

                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 International collaborations have also been supported through our internally managed GCRF
 funding. Exeter is one of 16 higher education hubs delivering GCRF, the aim of which is to
 conduct cutting-edge research that will assist strengthening global peace, security and
 governance, promoting global prosperity, and tackling extreme poverty. GCRF funds have
 supported collaboration with partners in India on effluent treatment solutions (Benson), on social
 media in Ghana (Gadjanova) and on civic technology in Turkey with Koç University (Banducci).
 To help build international partnerships, in the last REF period, the University’s Global
 Partnership Fund (ILES 4.11) has sponsored 14 Outward Mobility Academic Fellowship
 fellowships and supported five Visiting Academic International Fellowships.

 Industry Collaborations have addressed informed innovation, the politics of fashion, civic
 technology, and workplace democracy. Saunders, Tedesco, and Willett have worked with the
 fashion industry on sustainable clothing and the decolonial politics of fashion. Saunders,
 through industry stakeholder workshops, contributed to the House of Commons [HoC]
 Environmental Audit Committee's (2019) report 'Fixing Fashion’. Banducci has collaborated with
 the IBM Centre for Advanced Research to develop a first version of a web browser extension
 used to evaluate the ideological content of stories read online and recommend alternate news
 stories to counter-act potential bias. Muldoon, supported by funding from Not-Equal (an
 EPSRC/UKRI NetworkPlus) and ESRC IAA, is collaborating with Autonomy Digital to examine
 digital work platforms. Since 2019, our graduate students’ engagement with industry has been
 nurtured through the ESRC National Productivity Investment Fund (Dunlop as PI).

 Fellowships: Members of staff have bolstered collaborative research through fellowships
 associated with leading policy institute and international programmes: Senior Associate Fellow,
 Royal United Services Institute (Stokes from 2013), Jean Monnet Fellow, European University
 Institute and Early Career Fellow of the British School at Athens 2019 (Rori 2019), Jean Monnet
 Fellowship at EUI (Rori 2020-2021); Marie Curie Knowledge Exchange and Expertise Europe
 Lincoln & Canterbury Universities, New Zealand (Scott 2014-2015). Loke held a visiting
 fellowship at Nanyang Technology University (2019); Stevens was a funded visiting fellow at
 Australia National University (2014) and GESIS in Cologne (postponed due to COVID-19).
 Harcourt held a visiting fellowship at the LSE’s Centre for Risk and Regulation (2019-2020);
 Dunlop held a visiting Professorship at Universite Catholique de Louvain (2020). Banducci is a
 Turing Fellow at the Turing Institute (from 2018) – the UK’s national institute for data science
 and Artificial Intelligence (ILES 1.6).



 (c) Wider contributions to economy and society

 Over the last REF period, Politics secured 15 IAA grants (worth £123,596) to translate research
 into impact, exchange knowledge and build partnerships with 30 stakeholder organisations and
 has supported the impact work of 4 early career academic at a crucial stage of their
 development as impact leaders. For example, Muldoon’s KE fellowship with Autonomy was
 supported by IAA funds and Tedesco’s work on Curating Fashions in Decolonial Politics with the
 fashion industry on sustainable clothing was supported by a “Cultivating Impact Award” from the
 IAA.

 Advising international, national, and local governments: Researchers from Advanced
 International Studies have given oral and written evidence to the HoC Foreign Affairs Committee

                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on Autocracies and UK Foreign Policy (Heathershaw) and the HoC Select Committee on
 Natural Security (Blagden). Heathershaw was Principal Academic Advisor to Parliamentary
 Human Rights Group and the Academic Freedom Working Group (2019-2020). Gadjanova
 delivered briefing on the role of social media in politics in Africa at the FCDO, February 2020
 drawing on her GCRF funded project on social media use in elections in North Ghana.
 Heathershaw contributed to the Transnational Repression and Accountability Protection Act in
 the United States Congress. Banducci and Stevens have given written and oral evidence to
 HoC Select Committees on Fake News and Voter Engagement and oral evidence to the House
 of Lords [HoL] Committee on Polling. Thomson, based on research funded by an ESRC Future
 Leaders grant, has given evidence to the HoC Select Committee on Defence about public
 perceptions of foreign policy. Peter Ladegaard, Global Lead in Regulatory Policy and
 Management (RPM) in the World Bank Group, co-produced with Dunlop and Radaelli (cat C)
 the Global Regulatory Impact Assessment (RIA) Awards (see Dunlop ICS).

 Our success in supporting all staff has meant that early career researchers engage with advisory
 roles as well as contribute written and oral evidence to parliamentary committees. ECRs have
 been active in developing close collaboration with the UK and other national governments.
 Catignani has advised the All-Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on reserve forces. Mehran
 has been selected as a Specialist Advisor on an Inquiry of the International Relations and
 Security Committee on Afghanistan [HoL] and Fernandez-Molina has contributed to the FCDO
 internal papers on Western Sahara conflicts. Catignani’s work with the APG on reserve forces
 and cadets and his involvement with a formal working group on training has been referenced in
 policy documents. Baele and Coan are building an analytical and computational model on
 extremist discourse for the Home Office (based on ESRC/CREST-funded research). Rori has
 consulted with the Greek government on violence in politics and based on her research on
 political violence trained 820 Greek police officers to recognise extremist propaganda. She also
 contributed to the design of a new International Institute for the Research of Extremism and
 Terrorism embedded in the Greek Centre for Security Studies.

 The practice-based Security Strategy Institute is a member of a Global Strategic Partnership that
 provides academic and analytical support to Ministry of Defence’s Development, Concepts, and
 Doctrine Centre. Blagden, the academic lead for this partnership, has published three RAND
 papers that have advised this partnership.

 The department was also home to two major knowledge exchange fellowships through UK in a
 Changing Europe (Harcourt 2016-2018) and an ESRC Knowledge Exchange fellowship at the
 FCDO (Lewis 2019-2021). Harcourt informed policymakers on the impact of Brexit on
 communications sector and cybersecurity for the Cabinet policy briefing in March 2020, on
 Fintech and Brexit. Lewis’s two-year secondment with the FCDO will build a more robust and
 better-informed foreign policy with a specific focus on Russia.

 During the REF period, Dunlop worked with the Health and Safety Executive (HSE) on an
 ESRC IAA funded project on health and safety myths, and advised the World Bank, OECD, and
 European Commission’s Regulatory Scrutiny Board (RSB) on quality in international regulatory
 governance. James, a member of HM Inspectorate of Constabulary and Fire & Rescue Services
 Academic Reference Group, in 2018 produced a research note on the Inspectorate as a trusted
 source of information. Russel worked with Scottish Natural Heritage on helping to engage
 stakeholders on ways in which to implement the Scotland Natural Environment White Paper, and
 UK parliament on scrutinising the UK Government's cross-cutting environmental strategies.
 Kröger consulted on the European Social Pillar and the targets of EU 2020.

                                                                                          Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Advising NGOs: Heathershaw co-authored the Everyday Transnational Repression report with
 Freedom House (July 2020) and advised the National Endowment for Democracy (October
 2020), co-authoring a report on Central Asian government’s exploitation of natural resources.
 Prichard’s leading work on anarchism (see ICS “Constitutions for Anarchists”) has been
 translated into key organising principles for the Regional Administration of the Industrial Workers
 of the World and Radical Routes. Katz has provided statistical consulting to fhi360 (Washington,
 D.C.) and Justice & Care (London) to better understand human trafficking.

 Public engagement and education: Reifler worked with the New America Foundation and the
 Democracy Fund to examine the effectiveness of factchecking and assisted the International
 Fact-Checking Network (IFCN) with the rollout of the FactCheckEU which published 90 fact-
 checks in 13 countries during the 2019 European Parliament elections. Kolpinskaya shared
 research evidence that was used by the producers of BBC Points West “Have We Got News for
 You” programme on bots and the spread of misinformation. Saunders presented her work on
 sustainable clothing at a S4S StitchUp! event (AHRC funded) – S4S is a collaboration of
 community participants, academics, designers, filmmakers, consultants, and stakeholders who
 work together to encourage people to think, feel and act more sustainably. As part of the ESRC
 Festival of Social Science Cooper and Thomas hosted successive public engagements event
 (2018, 2019) to explore the construction of consent in the courtroom. The event incorporated two
 workshop sessions engaging Year 11, 12 and 13 students in cutting-edge social science
 problems on ‘Constructing Consent’ encouraging the teenagers to consider the role of the
 courtroom in society, and specifically how the institution tackles the contemporary observation of
 a pervading ‘rape culture’.


 (d) Contributions to the Discipline and Research Base
 Our impressive range and level of professional activity comes from an ethos of collegiality. We
 have made significant and sustained contributions to the discipline nationally and internationally
 through our leadership of professional associations, journal editorships and contributions to
 research networks.

 Contributions to professional associations: We add to the sustainability of our professional
 association through our service on executive boards of our professional associations. Dunlop
 was appointed Vice Chair of Political Studies Association (PSA) from April 2020-2023 and had
 earlier served as an elected PSA trustee (2018-2020). Willett also served as an elected trustee
 (2016-2019). Engeli was elected to board of International Public Policy Association (since
 2019). James is a member of the Evidence in Politics and Governance (international group
 coordinated from Institute of Governmental Studies, University of California, Berkeley). Prichard
 is Co-convenor of the PSA Anarchist Studies Specialist Group, Cooper (2015-2017) Moseley
 (2018-2019) and now Greasley (since 2020) co-convene the PSA’s Public Policy and
 Administration Specialist Group, Lamb is Chair of the Britain and Ireland Association for Political
 Thought and Cooper is Co-Chair Council for European Studies Gender and Sexuality Research
 Network. We also contribute to the major European association – European Consortium for
 Political Research (ECPR) with Kröger initiating and chairing the ECPR Research Network on
 Differentiated Integration in the EU; Russel co-convenes the ECPR Environmental Politics
 Standing Group. We also undertake original research that contributes to understanding the
 profession. Engeli co-authored “Patterns of Gender Inequality in European Political Science”;


                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Blagden has published on impact in international studies and Dunlop has published on the
 impact agenda and how public policy can address the challenges of COVID-19.

 UK research council and funding body roles: Our success and growth in research income is
 matched by our contributions to major national and international funding bodies. We serve as
 members of the ESRC’s Grant Assessment Panel (Banducci 2016-2020, James - present);
 UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship college (Banducci), as well as many programmes run through
 research councils including the ESRC’s UK in a Changing Europe (Harcourt) and
 Methodological Innovation panels (Coan). Eight members of staff have served or are serving on
 the ESRC’s peer review college. Eleven members of staff have served on review panels for
 national funding bodies outside the UK including the Research Council of Norway, Independent
 Research Fund Denmark, Dutch Research Council, National Science Foundation (USA), Finnish
 Research Council for Culture and Society, H2020 and the ERC.

 Journal and Book Series Editorships: Members of staff contribute to sustaining the
 disciplinary community nationally and internationally through editing high-profile journals in the
 discipline. The European Journal of Political Research has been edited in the department since
 2013 and Engeli has been a co-editor since 2018. Engeli was also one of the founding editors
 of the European Journal of Politics & Gender, and co-edited Political Studies Review (2016-
 2019). Our female early career academics have been engaged as associate and assistant
 editors (Bulmer, Critical Military Studies since 2015; Cooper Public Money and Management
 2015-2019; Gadjanova New Diversities since 2019). In total, 20 members of the department,
 including 10 early career academics, serve and have served as editors and co-editors: History of
 Political Thought (Hampsher-Monk founding editor since 1980); Journal of Elections, Public
 Opinion and Parties (Banducci, Stevens, since 2016 ); Regulation and Governance (Thomann
 since 2020); ECPR Book Series (Castiglione, until 2015); Environment and Planning C
 (Benson 2015-2016); Public Policy and Administration (Dunlop, 2014-2020); Contemporary
 Political Theory (Schaap, since 2019); Social Movement Studies (Saunders, since 2015). We
 have also edited 10 special journal issues. In total 23 members of staff serve currently or have
 served on the editorial boards of 34 journals.

 Keynotes: Our high-quality research has been recognised by invitations to give keynotes both
 national and internationally. As examples of the over 30 high-profile invited talks given: Prichard
 gave a series of three prize lectures on anarchism and IR theory at the Universities of Lund,
 Uppsala and a joint lecture at the University of Stockholm and the Swedish National Defence
 College; Carroll delivered an honorary address at The College of William & Mary (2014) and at
 the Institute for Historical Research (2017), Harcourt addressed Harvard Kennedy School’s
 workshop “Future Paths: Public interest advocacy in Internet governance and infrastructure
 design” (2019), and Banducci gave a keynote address to Institute for Public Policy Research
 (2018).


 (e) Awards and Recognition
 There has been international and national recognition of the quality of our research by our peers
 in professional organisations. Three of our REF2021 monographs won awards: International
 Public Policy Association best book award (Thomann 2019), the PSA American Politics Richard
 E. Neustadt Book Prize (Stevens 2019) and a Special Mention of Excellence, Alberigo Book
 Award, European Academy of Religion (Bettiza 2019). In addition to these awards for
 outstanding research monographs, 10 research articles have been awarded prizes in recognition


                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of their contributions to major debates in the discipline. For example, Best Article Prize of the
 Journal of European Public Policy (Stoeckel 2015), Haldane Prize for Best Published Article in
 Public Administration (James and Moseley 2014), Paul Lazarsfeld Best Paper Award, APSA
 Political Communication section (Reifler 2017); Best Paper, International Studies Association,
 International Political Sociology section, (Heathershaw 2014). Award for Outstanding Research
 (journal article) on Parliamentary Democracy in Europe from PADEMIA (Erasmus network on
 Parliamentary Democracy in Europe, Kröger 2016), "Innovative Approaches to the Study of
 Greek Society and Politics" Prize (PSA subgroup on Greek Politics, Coan 2015). Of these
 awards, four have gone to junior scholars (Coan, Moseley, Stoeckel, Thomann). Additional
 recognition has come for outstanding contributions to the profession: 2019 PSA Award Specialist
 Group of the Year to the Greek Political Studies Group (Rori).

 We had three female professors elected as Fellows to the Academy of Social Sciences [AcSS]
 (Banducci, Dunlop, and Harcourt) in recognition of their research and academic leadership
 bringing to four the number of AcSS Fellows in the Department.


 REF2021 SUMMARY: Our record of achievement demonstrates an upward trajectory for
 REF2021, building on our REF2014 success. The evidence for this upward trajectory is our
 success at funded research, the demand for our researchers as advisers to international and
 national organizations, our outstanding contributions to the discipline and a track-record of high-
 quality research outputs. We have built a culture of inclusivity of researchers regardless of rank,
 diversity of methods and impactful research, and our future is bright. We have had some of our
 strongest years of UK research council and EU grant capture which bodes well for the future.
 We have mentored a cohort of outstanding early career researchers; we play a leading role in
 the University’s investment in cross-disciplinary collaboration paving the way for future funding,
 and our agility to respond to opportunities is evidenced in our research activity around the major
 political challenges of Brexit and COVID-19 where our researchers have secured funding. We
 end REF2021 in a strong position to carry forward a vibrant, collaborative, and inclusive
 research culture.




                                                                                             Page 23
