Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: Queen Mary University of London
 Unit of Assessment: 17 Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 (i) Overview

 Queen Mary School of Business and Management (SBM) has a distinctive research mission
 centred on transformational social change. This reflects Queen Mary’s historical origins in
 one of the poorest areas of the United Kingdom and its contemporary dedication to the
 public good (see REF5a Section 1). We seek to fulfil our mission by providing a research
 environment that enables our academics to conduct world-leading, cutting-edge empirical
 and theoretical, contemporary and historical research on three intersecting themes, namely
 social justice, sustainability and good governance. Our aim is for our research to transcend
 disciplinary and methodological boundaries in order to address the most challenging and
 pressing issues at the nexus of business, organisations and society. Specific features of our
 research strategy described below aim to help us sustain and enhance our distinctive
 research profile reflecting our mission through ensuring a supportive and intellectually
 stimulating research culture. Beyond academia, our strategy is to enable our researchers
 to participate in and influence evidence-informed debates and policy-making conversations
 on social, economic, cultural and environmental challenges nationally, including in our local
 East London setting, as well as internationally. Thus, through our vibrant and enabling
 research environment, we seek to build research capacity and knowledge in the business
 and management academic community both within and beyond our School/Queen Mary.

 Consonant with our research mission, we put equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) at the
 heart of our research strategy. The centrality of EDI is underpinned by Queen Mary’s
 institutional commitment to EDI as a core value (see REF5a Section 1), which is exemplified
 by the appointment in January 2020 of a Vice Principal for People, Culture and Inclusion
 (Sheila Gupta MBE). Following the School’s successful Athena Swan Bronze Award
 application in 2018, we established an EDI Committee as an integral part of our overall
 governance structure. The School EDI Committee feeds into our Research Committee via
 co-opted members ensuring that EDI issues are at the forefront of our continually evolving
 research policies and practices.

 (ii) Post-REF 2014

 Since REF 2014, the success of our School and Queen Mary’s investment in it has meant
 that our academic staff (including teaching and scholarship staff) has grown considerably
 from 51 to 82. As at 31st July 2020, the number of academic staff with significant
 responsibility for research stood at 67 (62.9 FTE). Therefore, approximately 82% of our
 academic staff are in teaching and research (T&R) roles, which we believe demonstrates
 the commitment Queen Mary/SBM has to cultivating a strong research profile alongside
 growing a research-informed teaching portfolio. In the main, we have confined teaching and
 scholarship appointments to key administrative roles for managing teaching programmes
 and enhancing the student experience. During this period of high staff growth, we have built
 on the strategic research objectives outlined in the REF2014 Environment Template while
 sustaining the defining features of our research environment. In summary, (further details
 follow) during the current REF period we have:

    •   Through a deliberate strategy of accelerated investment, contributed to and shaped
        the academic agenda around our research mission.
    •   Continued to support established research strengths and invested in emergent
        areas in recognition of shifting staff interests as well as staff movements in and out



                                                                                       Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


        of the School. This has involved sustaining investment in our research units in terms
        of staff hiring strategy and allocation of financial support to provide Centres/Groups
        with an annual budget and therewith, accountable autonomy to pursue their
        respective agenda.
    •   Increased research income activity and value of awards (approximately £1.9 million
        compared with £929,000 in the REF 2014 period) including a number of small and
        larger grants/awards from a range of bodies including AHRC; British Academy;
        Commission of the European Community; Wellcome Trust; Cancer Research UK;
        Trades Union Congress; KPMG.
    •   Increased investment to enhance impact-related activity in terms of (teaching and
        administration) workload relief for selected colleagues and provision of funding.
    •   Sustained improvement in PhD completion rates and the academic quality of
        doctoral students at the same time as growing the size of the programme (from 42
        FTE students as at REF 2014 to 80), and building supervisory capacity across the
        breadth of research interests in the School. The number of doctoral awards has
        grown from 14.5 (REF2014) to 48.2 (REF2021).
    •   Enhanced research mentoring, infrastructure and resources to support expectation
        norms of high quality research activity and outputs from all T&R staff.

 (iii) Research and impact strategy

 Since 2014, implementation of our strategic objectives has involved continuing to work
 towards our distinctive research mission during a period of rapid growth by sustaining a
 supportive and intellectually stimulating research culture. We have added sustainability to
 the two themes articulated in 2014 of social justice and good governance, and we continue
 to stress the societal and historical context in much of our research. Our strategic objectives
 broadly remain as stated in REF 2014:

    1. To make an outstanding contribution to knowledge and to shape the intellectual
       agenda of the three interconnected themes
    2. To sustain existing and develop new collaborations within and beyond academia to
       support research strengths and interdisciplinary enquiry
    3. To increase research income from multiple sources
    4. To enhance research impact on practice and policy affecting business, management
       and organizational governance

 In order to achieve these objectives, our approach is to house the School’s research
 endeavours within three types of research unit – Centres, Groups and Clusters in which we
 make considerable annual investments. The three types of unit are differentiated by the
 scale and scope of their research activity. Centres are our flagship research units with a
 critical mass of affiliated internal academic colleagues and PhD students engaged in a wide
 range of research activity in a broad subject area with considerable reach, significance and
 contribution to the research base as well as to wider society. Groups may have a narrower
 focus and range of activity and/or be evolving; therefore, over time, as their reach,
 significance and contribution grow, they may become Centres. We have established a new
 type of research unit – clusters – since 2014. Clusters embody an important component of
 the School’s research strategy, which is to enable new/niche research themes to emerge
 organically from staff’s evolving research interests. Clusters may be nested in established
 research Centres and Groups or be independent crosscutting units; they may be temporary
 or they may evolve over time into Groups or Centres if their activities become significant
 enough or are ambitious enough to warrant greater investment.

 Our research units typically comprise several core members from among our researchers
 whose work falls squarely within the given unit’s central purpose. In addition, most also



                                                                                         Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 count PhD students among their membership as well as colleagues whose primary affiliation
 lies elsewhere but whose research has a degree of synergy with the focus of the given unit.
 This approach allows the crosscutting and interdisciplinary nature of many contemporary
 business and management issues to surface in novel and interesting ways that shape
 academic debate and knowledge production. Our aim via these research units is to provide
 a primary intellectual home to all T&R staff. However, academics have full autonomy to
 decide whether they wish to affiliate with more than one research unit or whether they wish
 to self-organise with colleagues to propose new units depending on the breadth, scope or
 changing direction of their own research portfolios. Since REF 2014, the School has
 approved the establishment of one new research Centre, the reconfiguration of three
 research Groups, and the establishment of one new Cluster (details below).

 A core element of our research strategy is to ensure that all our research units embody our
 central research mission of transformational social change. Presently, we have two
 longstanding Centres – Centre for Research in Equality and Diversity, and Centre for
 Globalisation Research (both established 2005) – and one more recently established
 interdisciplinary Centre joint with the School of Geography – the Centre on Labour and
 Global Production (established 2015). These three flagship Centres all pursue
 transformational social change and all have our three core themes – social justice,
 sustainability and good governance – at the heart of their aims and objectives. Combined,
 they produce our strongest and most impactful research. All our five submitted Impact Case
 Studies link with the themes/goals of one or more of these Centres. In addition, we have
 five research Groups some of which featured in REF 2014 and some of which have
 reformulated their research agenda along with staff changes and/or evolving staff research
 interests – Behavioural Finance Working Group, Business Ecosystems Research Group,
 Accounting and Accountability Research Group, Marketing Interactions and Consumer
 Behaviour Group, Organisational Practices and Processes Research Group. There are
 currently two Clusters: Public Management and Regulation; Borderlines: Action Research
 in Creative and Cultural Economies, which represent smaller (in terms of staff numbers
 affiliated) and/or narrower/emergent research themes. Research Groups and Clusters all
 pursue our central research mission of transformational social change and reflect at least
 one of our core themes.

 We believe that our dual-pronged strategy of continuous investment in successful research
 units alongside judicious investment in newer ones ensures continued dynamism and vitality
 within our research environment. We undertake a biennial review of our research units in
 order to ensure that existing units are meeting the needs of our collective research
 endeavour, justifying investment in them, and enabling our research to flourish and take
 new turns that have potential to contribute to the knowledge base within our research
 themes and to social change in wider society.

 Support for research

 In order to support our research strategy, since 2014, we have increased investment in our
 research and researchers by implementing a number of new policies, practices and
 initiatives. Noteworthy is the range of time-resourced academic and professional services
 research leadership roles that the School now has: Associate Dean for Research, PhD
 Director, Impact Co-ordinator; Centre/Group Directors; Research Manager. We also
 support staff’s research activity via equitable allocated research time in workloads, several
 internal funding schemes, an annual personal research allowance and funding for national
 and international conference attendance. We facilitate researcher development and
 collegial relationships among researchers via mentoring during probation period; Personal
 Research Plan mentoring by professorial staff; activities of, and peer support via, research
 units; provision of research training opportunities at School, Faculty and University levels;
 PhD co-supervision opportunities. In addition, we provide a stimulating research


                                                                                       Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 environment through regular research seminars with contributions from invited external
 academics and internal colleagues; regular research events and workshops under the
 auspices of our Centres/Groups/Clusters; working papers; visiting scholars; a vibrant PhD
 programme.

 By providing administrative assistance for research funding applications, we support our
 academics to pursue research income from multiple sources including research councils,
 charities, companies, government, non-profit organisations etc. We support impact and
 engagement activity through time-resourced academic leadership (Impact Co-ordinator);
 impact development awards; impact development fellowships; research environment
 awards; access to Faculty- and University-level initiatives (see REF5a Section 4).

 Supporting interdisciplinary research

 The School seeks to contribute to Queen Mary’s strategy of promoting interdisciplinary
 research (see REF5a Section 2) by resourcing various initiatives. These include our flagship
 inter-disciplinary Research Centre co-located in SBM and the School of Geography, Centre
 on Labour and Global Production, and our recently established Borderlines cluster,
 which collaborates on an ad-hoc basis with other disciplines in Queen Mary including the
 School of English and Drama. In addition, several members of SBM with an interest in
 migration are affiliated with Queen Mary’s interdisciplinary Centre for Migration Studies and
 there is an active collaboration between CRED and the School of Law’s Centre for Research
 on Law, Equality and Diversity involving for example joint PhD supervision as well as
 occasional joint events. Our support for interdisciplinary research is also seen in a number
 of cross-school PhD students (with Geography, Politics, Engineering, Maths, Life Sciences).
 Several of our academics participate in Queen Mary’s cross-school Institute for Humanities
 and Social Sciences (IHSS) (see REF5a Section 2) under the auspices of which for example
 in 2018-19, the School co-convened with the School of Geography and Department of
 Drama, an initiative to promote interdisciplinary research on the theme of ‘Work at the
 Margins’.

 Impact strategy

 Reflecting Queen Mary’s long tradition of and commitment to research impact (see REF5a
 Section 2), since the inception of our School we have sought to produce socially and
 economically impactful research. REF 2014 highlighted some world-leading cases of
 research impact within the School and we have since made huge efforts to build upon this
 strength by increasing resources and support for impact activities. Our aim is to enable as
 many of our researchers as possible to engage with multiple stakeholders in the public,
 private and third sectors. For most of the REF 2021 period, one of our senior professors
 served as Impact Co-ordinator (Martins) to support, guide and train colleagues pursuing a
 wide range of impact activities including but not confined to REF Impact Case Studies.
 Martins was eminently qualified for this role having himself submitted a highly commended
 Impact Case Study as part of our REF 2014 submission.

 We have enhanced our impact strategy with a number of targeted initiatives that we expect
 to remain in place beyond REF 2021. These include small awards (up to £1,000) introduced
 2016-17 to support impact activities (whether or not specifically for REF Impact Case
 Studies); Impact Fellowships over 2017-20 with a 10% reduction in teaching and
 administration workload for those carrying out significant impact activity as part of their
 research. Eight such Fellowships were awarded for 2018-19 and six for 2019-20. In addition,
 formal development opportunities for colleagues undertaking impact-seeking work are
 provided each year in training workshops run by the Impact Co-ordinator and in a major
 session at our annual Research Away-Day. In 2018-19, we also invested in impact training,
 advice and support by a well-known external provider that staff with potential REF Impact


                                                                                       Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Case Studies as well as any other interested colleagues were invited to attend. Combined,
 these activities have enhanced staff understanding of how to achieve impact from scholarly
 work and have proven particularly critical for early career researchers’ capacity to begin to
 develop an impact agenda beyond REF 2021. Our research web pages are used to
 publicise impact activity and therewith to increase its reach within and beyond the academic
 community. While the submitted Impact Case studies exemplify the School’s impact work,
 our broad impact strategy, which extends support and resources beyond REF Impact Case
 Studies, has enabled us to make progress in building and sustaining our overall mission of
 research for transformational social change.

 Open access strategy and wider strategy to encourage the effective sharing and
 management of research data

 Queen Mary is committed to the general principle of Open Access of research outputs (see
 REF5a Section 2) whereby individual researchers or research collaborations freely choose
 to disseminate their research via those routes that are internationally recognised for their
 high standards. The School generally implements Open Access by the Green route, with
 authors self-archiving their work in the Queen Mary repository. Since 1st April 2016, we have
 communicated and enforced UKRI’s open access policy. In a proactive effort to educate
 staff (particularly new staff and ECRs), we have held workshops, produced and distributed
 guidance (which is also contained in our School Research Handbook), generally promoted
 open access to staff via our monthly School Research Newsletter and regular all-staff
 emails. These initiatives are designed to ensure all staff understand OA requirements for
 REF 2021 and to encourage 100% compliance with the policy.

 In terms of procedures, all staff are required to deposit the accepted manuscript of all journal
 articles within three months of the date of acceptance for publication. Articles are accessible
 in the QMRO repository after any embargos have expired. Academic staff may choose to
 self-deposit or to request the assistance of the School’s Research Services Team. The
 Research Manager regularly liaises with the Queen Mary Repository and Research
 Information Team regarding open access queries, for guidance on journal and funder open
 access agreements, and to arrange workshops and drop-ins for academic staff.

 Our strategy is to build staff’s knowledge of how to effectively share and manage research
 data especially projects involving large datasets. The Queen Mary ITS Research group
 provides computing facilities as well as advice on the effective management of research
 data. Our data sharing strategy is most visible in the data management plans of grant
 applications where for example, applicants have outlined how they will: share digitized
 images of difficult-to-access archive material; enhance share-ability by use of codebooks
 detailing methods and use of curation techniques, such as anonymization, data segregation,
 redaction; publicise the availability of their data via impact and engagement activities and
 communication media such as project websites.

 Ensuring research integrity

 Queen Mary is committed to conducting research according to the highest standards of
 integrity underpinned by the UUK Concordat to Support Research Integrity (see REF5a
 Section 2). The School takes action to ensure that the Queen Mary commitment is upheld.
 Specifically, we make our researchers aware of the requirement to seek ethical approval
 from the Queen Mary Ethics of Research Committee for all research projects involving
 human subjects via T&R staff and PhD student induction sessions and via the School
 Research Handbook available to all SBM researchers. The School has an ethics adviser
 (Robertson) who sits on the Queen Mary Ethics of Research Committee and who gives
 advice to our researchers in cases of projects involving complex ethical issues. The



                                                                                          Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Associate Dean for Research screens all applications for ethics approval prior to submission
 to the Committee.

 REF preparation strategy and EDI

 Key staff involved in REF decision-making processes – including selection of outputs and
 impact case studies – all underwent mandatory Queen Mary EDI training. We included all
 our professors and readers in outputs assessment in order to ensure that as diverse a group
 as possible were involved in shaping the final submission. We also consciously nominated
 a diverse group of external academics as REF output/impact assessors (selected and
 appointed by the HSS Faculty). After the annual internal REF Review exercise in 2018, we
 conducted an equality analysis to ensure that there was no discrimination on basis of gender
 or race/ethnicity in regards to internal/external quality assessment of outputs. We
 benchmarked assessors’ scores against the CABS Journal Quality Guide and we found that
 men’s articles were slightly more likely than women’s to be ‘downgraded’ by assessors and
 that white staff’s articles were slightly more likely than BAME staff’s to be ‘downgraded’. We
 were therefore satisfied that there was no evidence of gender and race bias against women
 and BAME staff in the assessment exercise.

 Future research strategy

 The School regards its research strategy as dynamic and constantly evolving in ways that
 enhance the vitality of the research environment and ensure its sustainability beyond REF
 2021. Over the next five years, we intend to continue to pursue our three established core
 themes of social justice, good governance and sustainability, which we believe have
 assumed a heightened importance as a consequence of the Covid-19 pandemic. In
 summary, our future strategy comprises action to:

    •   Continue to embed the United Nations Principles for Responsible Management
        Education (PRME) and Athena Swan principles in our research structures, policies,
        procedures, and practices. For example, we undertake to regularly carry out EDI
        impact assessments of our policies and practices and to take action to sustain our
        diversity inclusive research management and leadership.
    •   Support all teaching and research staff in their research, but additionally invest on a
        selective basis in areas of research excellence that align with our subject strengths
        and strategic priorities as reflected in our mission and in the work of our research
        units.
    •   Increase efforts to obtain external research income from multiple sources including
        research councils, government departments, European Commission, companies
        and charities.
    •   Encourage and support impact and engagement work to ensure the reach of our
        research beyond academia.
    •   Maintain and seek opportunities to grow our multi-disciplinary PhD community
        thereby investing in the scholars of the future.

 We believe that the supportive and vibrant research environment we have created and
 committed to upholding, will help to secure continued academic staff buy-in to our research
 strategy and its broader purpose of sustaining a healthy mission- and curiosity-driven
 research culture. The wide range of strategic levers/initiatives we have developed to fulfil
 our strategic goals will act as a means of future proofing our inclusive research environment
 as we move forward in the challenging context and aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic.




                                                                                        Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 (iv) Achievements from research activity

 We have made considerable progress on our strategic objectives outlined earlier through
 the work of our research units, which also act as vehicles for engaging with partners beyond
 the university sector through research collaborations, workshops, public events and
 community engagement. Evidence of achievement of our strategic objectives and
 sustainability of our research contribution is illustrated below through selected examples of
 the work of our Centres/Groups/Clusters and how that work contributes to shaping the
 intellectual agenda as well as to impact and engagement beyond the academy.

 Established in 2005 the Centre for Globalisation Research (CGR) is internationally
 recognised within and beyond academia. As well as SBM academics and PhD students,
 membership includes many external internationally renowned visiting fellows. CGR
 research revolves around the political economy of governance and welfare in a globalised
 world. Members of CGR approach this central theme from different angles: (i) political
 economy and macroeconomics; (ii) development, inequality and environmental economics;
 (iii) business analytics, innovation and networks. For instance, Matousek’s work has
 examined policy uncertainty and the capital shortfall of global financial firms. Gutiérrez-
 Romero’s research has quantified the considerable economic impact that drug-cartel
 violence has had on poverty, economic growth and crime in Mexico. Gennaioli has
 contributed to the understanding of the link between environmental outcomes and political
 institutions in developing countries. Recent research by Kavetsos has revealed the impact
 of hosting the Olympics on subjective well-being and the relationship between subjective
 well-being and economic growth. Panzarasa’s and von Graevenitz’s interdisciplinary
 research on innovation and social networks has been published in the world’s top medical
 journals (Lancet, BMJ, Annals of Surgery). CGR’s collective contribution to theoretical and
 empirical research is evidenced by publications in high quality journals such as World
 Development, Journal of Economic Geography, Economic Development and Cultural
 Change, Economica, Review of Economics and Statistics, Journal of Corporate Finance,
 Journal of Industrial Economics, Journal of Economic Behaviour and Organization and
 Journal of Public Economics. CGR also disseminates its research through a blog, a working
 papers series, seminars and conferences. Its Annual Globalisation Seminar Series has
 attracted eminent scholars such as Esther Duflo (2019 Nobel Prize winner), Alberto Alesina
 and Paul Collier.

 CGR researchers engage with a range of policy-makers in emerging and advanced
 economies. For instance, Granville’s research on monetary unions is informing the political
 debate on the sustainability of the Eurozone. Von Graeventiz’s research on patents and
 innovation stimulated a collaboration with the World Intellectual Property Organisation and
 the European Patent Office. CGR members have engaged with the OECD, the World Bank,
 the International Migration Organisation and U4-Anti corruption research centre. CGR
 research has also involved collaborations with industrial parties including Thomson Reuters,
 Elsevier, GlaxoSmithKline, Nokia-Bell-Labs and Vodafone Group, and with leading
 research labs such as the United Nations Global Pulse Lab and the MIT Media Lab.

 Established in 2005, the Centre for Research in Equality and Diversity (CRED) is
 internationally recognised as an influential hub for theoretically informed and evidence-
 based research on workplace and organisational equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI).
 CRED attracts leading EDI scholars at all levels now comprising around 24 academic staff
 and 30 PhD students researching different dimensions of EDI across multiple disciplines,
 e.g. sociology, psychology, economics, employment relations, finance and accounting,
 post-colonial studies.

 CRED research features prominently in world-leading journals including the British Journal
 of Industrial Relations; British Journal of Management; Gender, Work and Organizations;


                                                                                       Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Harvard Business Review; Human Relations; Human Resource Management (US); Human
 Resource Management Journal; Leadership Quarterly; Organization; and Work,
 Employment and Society. Key intellectual contributions include: conceptual critiques of
 popular EDI initiatives such as unconscious bias training (Noon); investigations into the
 discourses, strategies and practices of various EDI actors (Kirton, Tatli); contributions to
 intersectional perspectives on EDI (Healy, Tatli, Wright); research into women’s career
 obstacles and leadership journeys (Doldor, Athanasoupoulu, Adamson); limitations of
 interventions to reduce the gender pay gap (Healy, Koumenta). CRED regularly hosts world-
 leading EDI scholars who contribute to the CRED annual lecture and visiting scholar
 schemes, such as George Yancey (Emory University); Belle Rose Ragins (University of
 Wisconsin); Myrtle P. Bell (University of Texas); Sarah Riley (Massey University); Sarosh
 Kuruvilla (Cornell University).

 A key feature of CRED is its commitment to impactful research in a wide range of
 employment and organisational settings, including companies, trade unions, public sector
 and non-profit organisations, policymakers and regulators. Key examples include Doldor’s
 influential research on gender and ethnicity on corporate boards and in leadership, which
 has contributed to government policy on increasing women on boards (and forms the basis
 of one of our submitted Impact Case Studies), and major research for the Chartered
 Management Institute on race and ethnicity in the management pipeline (Cornelius and
 Healy). CRED’s strong relationships with trade unions have resulted in widely publicised
 critiques of the equality impacts of privatisation of the probation service (Kirton),
 international collaborative research on the future of women in public transport in the face of
 technological change (Wright), and the casualisation of women’s work (Healy). CRED’s
 commitment to impact from research is also evidenced by its engagement with Queen Mary
 EDI objectives, for example Dar’s student-led project BreakThrough! The Bangladeshi
 Women's Careers Group; Cornelius’ leadership of SBM’s EDI agenda.

 The Centre on Labour and Global Production (CLGP) was established in September
 2016 as a joint centre between SBM and Queen Mary’s School of Geography. Its
 membership includes researchers across different disciplines within Queen Mary who study
 the changing positions of labour, regulation, and social conflict in the world economy and
 within the historical development of North-South relations. The Centre is a leading hub of
 critical global value chain (GVC) research, which has been published in leading journals
 across a variety of disciplines, e.g. Journal of Development Studies, Journal of Economic
 Geography, Review of International Political Economy, British Journal of Industrial Relations
 (Baglioni, Campling). Baglioni and Campling are at the forefront of studies on the ecological
 and environmental aspects of GVCs published in Environment and Planning A and D,
 Economic Geography, and in a forthcoming monograph on Capitalism and the Sea by
 Campling and Colás (Verso 2021). At the vanguard of interdisciplinary dialogue among
 critical management studies, economic geography and development studies, Baglioni and
 Campling are setting the international research agenda on ‘labour regimes’, reflected in
 distinctive and growing contributions to leading journals such as Journal of Economic
 Geography, Economic Geography, British Journal of Industrial Relations, Work
 Employment and Society. CLGP is also a world-leader in the empirically grounded analysis
 of labour standards in EU trade agreements, published in Journal of Common Market
 Studies (joint winner of that journal’s best article of 2019), World Trade Journal, and a
 monograph by Campling and colleagues, Free Trade Agreements and Global Labour
 Governance (Routledge 2021). This latter stream of work has had a significant impact on
 practitioner communities and Campling’s research on international trade, its regulation and
 social impacts forms the basis of two of our submitted Impact Case Studies. In another
 stream of work, Rai has led the ecological critique of piracy networks and informality in the
 Global South in leading journals such as Environment and Planning D, a monograph on
 Jugaad Time: Ecologies of Everyday Hacking in India (Duke University Press 2019), and a
 co-edited volume Diginaka: Subaltern Politics and Digital media in Post-Capitalist India


                                                                                        Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 (Orient Blackswan 2020). Finally, with a view to increasing interdisciplinary scholarship on
 gendered and racialised divisions of labour, in 2019 CLGP hosted an event on Social
 Reproduction Within and Beyond Production with internationally known scholars (e.g. Silvia
 Federici, Professor Emerita at HOFSTRA University).

 The work of members of the Accounting and Accountability Research Group (AARG)
 addresses important contemporary and historical topics in accounting research. The Group
 serves as a vehicle for the exchange of ideas among accounting researchers, facilitates
 collaborative work within the School, hosts international speakers and research visitors and
 has acquired a national profile through building networks with professional accountancy
 bodies and hosting national and international accounting conferences. The contribution of
 AARG to the theoretical and empirical development of the discipline is evidenced by
 publications in high-ranking accounting journals such as Accounting, Organisations and
 Society; Critical Perspectives in Accounting; Accounting, Auditing and Accountability
 Journal; British Accounting Review; European Accounting Review and Accounting Forum.

 Group members are involved in several areas of research. Haslam, Johal and Tsitsianis
 study business models and financialisation and are recipients of the Hans-Matthöfer
 prize award for their contributions to the ongoing academic and policy-informing work on
 the Foundational Economy. This work focuses on how to construct an understanding of the
 drivers of wellbeing and liveability. In the area of accounting history, McCartney focuses on
 aspects of British industrial performance since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution,
 and has explored railways both during the nineteenth century and since privatisation. Sian’s
 work on the accounting profession has investigated historical raced and class-based
 exclusion from the accounting profession and gender-based marginalisation in the
 contemporary era. Mitrou’s work focuses on governance and sustainability as they relate to
 pensions. Her work investigates pension de-risking strategies in the UK and the influence
 of environmental, social, and governance activity on corporate pension policies.

 The Behavioural Finance Working Group (BFWG) has been hosted by SBM since 2013.
 BFWG is an externally facing interdisciplinary research hub for empirical and theoretical
 researchers globally with more than 700 members worldwide from finance, psychology,
 sociology, economics and accounting, as well as finance practitioners. BFWG’s work is
 premised on the view that the need for understanding agents’ behaviour in finance is of
 paramount importance for research, policy and practice. BFWG’s flagship activity is an
 annual conference with approximately 100 international participants. The conference and
 other BFWG meetings have been and continue to be impactful in terms of generating
 contributions and debates that have transformed the finance field globally leading to
 inclusion of human behaviour in financial analysis and changing the traditional paradigms.
 For example, Muradoglu’s work has led the way in understanding financial crisis and the
 recovery processes from a behavioural perspective. Among the other SBM members, all
 have published the work they presented at BFWG meetings in top journals in development
 finance (Mallick), sentiment (Bathia) and mergers and acquisitions (Peng, Xia). BFWG is
 also spearheading developments in the field by providing a methods-hub that encourages
 qualitative and experimental methods besides the traditional quantitative ones that typically
 define the field.

 BFWG’s work involves regular collaborations with stakeholders beyond academia, for
 example, with the Society for the Study of Emerging Markets and the Institute of Chartered
 Accountants of England and Wales. BFWG is instrumental in creating opportunities within
 the field for impact and engagement by exposing researchers within and beyond the School
 to a large national and international network of practitioner groups, including the Financial
 Conduct Authority, Canadian Deposit Insurance Corporation, Barclays, Blackrock and
 several other financial institutions.



                                                                                       Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The Business Ecosystems Research Group (BERG) was established in 2011 and is
 recognised as a significant hub for research on business relationships and networks. As
 well as several SBM academics, it includes associate members from Europe and the USA.
 BERG focuses on theorising about the interactions among actors in complex business
 systems. It covers business marketing, strategy, supply chain management,
 entrepreneurship, and innovation. BERG contributes to the development of innovative
 research methods in management studies, for example, the rigorous application of fuzzy
 set Qualitative Comparative Analysis (fsQCA) in the case of social phenomena
 characterised by the complex interplay of different driver domains. Evidence for BERG’s
 achievements are more than 100 articles in high quality peer-reviewed journals since 2014,
 three books and 17 book chapters. BERG researchers contribute to business impact
 through collaborative projects with companies and public/governmental bodies (e.g.
 Mercedes-Benz/MBUSI, International Hotel Group, Hilti, McKinsey & Co, Hatteland, BMW,
 Fraunhofer IIS, GfK, MAN, Bosch, IBM, Telia, Diebold Nixdorf, Digital Green, DEFRA, BIS,
 FSA, Telefonica, State Council of China). A noteworthy example of these collaborations
 was the organisation of a one-day managerial best practice workshop on service infusion
 with 30 Mercedes-Benz/MBUSI suppliers in 2018, which resulted in ongoing research
 outputs achieved with MBUSI (e.g. articles by Henneberg in internationally leading journals).
 BERG currently researches digitalisation strategy development in manufacturing
 companies, as part of a UKRI grant, together with the Cambridge Service Alliance, Institute
 for Manufacturing, University of Cambridge, and the University of Sheffield.

 The Marketing Interactions and Consumer Behaviour (MICB) group focuses on
 research in consumer behaviour, with members utilizing both experimental and qualitative
 approaches. Group members study topics such as charitable giving, consumer moral
 identity, multiculturalism and inclusivity in marketing, political marketing, and consumers’
 emotional experiences. Since 2014, members have published in top journals in marketing
 and psychology, including Journal of Consumer Psychology and Journal of Personality and
 Social Psychology. Research excellence is further evidenced by several measures of
 esteem, e.g. best paper awards at AMA and AoM conferences, and the Women in Marketing
 (scientist category) award. Members have given talks at leading schools such as University
 of Cambridge (marketing and psychology groups), University College London (psychology),
 VU Amsterdam (marketing), Hong Kong University (marketing), Chinese University of Hong
 Kong (marketing), and Fudan University (marketing). Group members have received media
 coverage/ given interviews in national and international outlets such as the BBC, CNBC, the
 Wall Street Journal, MarketWatch, Financial Times, and the Telegraph.

 The Organizational Processes and Practices Research Group (OPPRG) was
 established in 2017 with a distinct approach to organisation studies involving analysis of
 organisational processes and practices as a unified field of enquiry. In so doing, it has
 developed an interdisciplinary orientation that brings together a range of subject areas
 relevant to organisation studies, including sociology, organisational behaviour, political
 theory, and science and technology studies. OPPRG members contribute significantly to
 the fields of: knowledge, learning and professional identities (Robertson, Fox); CEO
 careers, leadership, gender and executive coaching (Athanasopoulou); critique of
 organisation theory (Curtis); social and spatial divisions of labour and management, and
 labour process (Hanlon); path dependence/creation and hegemony (Maielli). Key outcomes
 include an award winning publication on knowledge, identity and power (Mosonyi), as well
 as published work resulting from a Wellcome Trust-funded study on professional
 legitimisation of medical treatments (Perrotta) and publication of books from leading
 University Presses (e.g. Oxford University Press - Athanasopoulou). OPPRG’s significant
 contribution to organisation studies is reflected in publications in world-leading academic
 journals including British Journal of Management, Business History, Business and Society,
 International Journal of Entrepreneurial Behaviour and Research, Gender Work and
 Organization, Harvard Business Review, Journal of Change Management, Human


                                                                                      Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Resource Management, Human Relations, International Journal of Management Reviews,
 Leadership Quarterly, Organization Studies, Physical Review, Social Science and
 Medicine.

 The Public Management and Regulation cluster (PMR) is an interdisciplinary cluster
 whose members use a range of methods and theoretical perspectives. 6 has developed a
 neo-Durkheimian institutional framework to explain how policymakers’ informal social
 organisation shapes their framing of decisions, often leading to unintended consequences.
 Laffin’s research, particularly in housing and planning, demonstrates the limitations and
 apolitical assumptions underlying existing public management frameworks. Laffin delivered
 a keynote presentation at the 2019 Annual Meeting of the Council of Europe’s Chamber of
 the Regions. Ladi has focussed on the European dimension and shown the particular role
 played by experts in globalising and Europeanisation processes. Panagiotopoulos has
 shown how digital research can be a powerful tool in researching how government
 regulation works and how digital methods can be used to evaluate regulatory change.
 Schwarz has developed and applied contrasting leadership approaches to understanding
 how public organisations grapple with questions of improving performance and innovation.
 Members publish in top journals in the field including editing two special issues of Public
 Administration (Perri 6, Ladi).

 Borderlines is a recently established (2016/17) research cluster with members from other
 Schools including Geography, English and Drama and Linguistics, Languages and Film.
 Borderlines brings together an inter/trans-disciplinary group of researchers, artists, thinkers,
 makers, practitioners who are interested in understanding the role of the creative and
 cultural sectors in reproducing and moving beyond neo-liberal logics of space, temporality
 and community. Members draw on a variety of critical methods from ethnography to
 participatory video methods to examine creative and cultural sectors across and between
 the Global North and South (with funding from AHRC, British Academy, ESRC-UKIER,
 ESRC, British Academy of Management). Members are involved in community
 engagement, third sector organizations and activism (The Decolonizing Alliance, Mind,
 Oxfam, Save the Children, the Naz Foundation and CARE International, European Council
 of Exiles and Refugees, Doctors without Borders).


 2. People

 (i) Staffing strategy and staff development

 Recruitment and retention strategy

 Our academic staffing strategy is to appoint and retain internationally excellent and world-
 leading researchers, and those early career researchers with the potential to reach such a
 level. We aim to recruit academics whose research connects strongly with at least one of
 the three themes within our core purpose, namely social justice, sustainability and good
 governance and with at least one of our research units. The profiles and renown nationally
 and internationally of our research units enhance our external reputation thereby helping us
 to attract the high calibre academics at all career stages that we seek.

 A core element of our staffing strategy is to embed Athena Swan principles of equality and
 diversity in recruitment, selection, promotion, and development practices. We actively seek
 to sustain the noteworthy diversity of our academic workforce: as a snapshot, latest
 benchmarking data from 2018-19 show that 38% of our T&R staff were of BAME
 background and 46% were women compared to Business and Management sector
 benchmarks of 29% and 42% respectively, and Russell Group benchmarks of 28% and 36%
 respectively. Additionally, at 31/07/2020, our professoriate was also diverse (31% female


                                                                                         Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 and 19% BAME). However, we acknowledge that this constitutes under-representations
 relative to the gender and ethnic composition of the overall T&R staff. We regularly monitor
 headline diversity indicators, for example, success rates by gender and ethnicity in
 recruitment exercises and promotion rounds, so that we can be confident that our diverse
 and inclusive research environment is sustainable. We aim to develop practices and
 initiatives to address any disparities identified. For example, we ensure that all staff involved
 in recruitment and selection, and promotion exercises have undergone Queen Mary equality
 and diversity training in order to increase awareness of unconscious bias and understanding
 of the principles of equality, diversity and inclusion. Further, interview and promotion panels
 for T&R staff are always mixed-gender. During 2020-21, the School’s EDI Committee is
 exploring further actions to support diversity and inclusion in hiring and promotion decisions.

 A tangible EDI outcome of our staffing strategy is our strong culture of internal promotion
 that has ensured that many women and BAME staff in particular (under-represented
 nationally in senior academic positions) have climbed the academic career ladder while at
 Queen Mary. Queen Mary’s robust promotion procedures upholding the principles of EDI
 underpin these outcomes (see REF5a Section 3). In the School, we have a Promotions
 Committee comprising the Dean, Associate Dean for Research, Associate Dean for
 Academic Development and Heads of Departments, which considers all applications across
 our five Departments. This Committee makes recommendations to an HSS Faculty panel
 and the Queen Mary Senior Executive makes final decisions. This deliberative approach
 enhances the quality and fairness of promotions decision-making by mitigating any potential
 for unconscious bias. In the current REF cycle, the School has promoted 38 teaching and
 research staff: six females and three males from Reader to Professor; five females and six
 males from Senior Lecturer to Reader; ten females and eight males from Lecturer to Senior
 Lecturer. In the 2018-19 promotions round, 56% of successful promotion applicants were
 women and in 2019-20, the figure was 63%.

 Besides seeking to recruit from a diverse pool of academics, we aim to sustain staff diversity
 by providing an environment where all individuals irrespective of legally protected and other
 identity characteristics may develop a rounded academic career profile within a visibly
 inclusive environment. We therefore consciously seek to ensure that BAME and female staff
 are well represented on School committees (including the Research Committee) and in
 senior academic administrative/management roles (including research-related). The
 School’s Steering Group, for example, comprises two women (out of four academic
 members), one of whom is of BAME background. The Research Committee comprises 64%
 women and 18% BAME academic members. Of our ten research units, six are led by
 women and two by BAME colleagues. While the indicators described demonstrate that we
 are attaining our broad inclusion aim, the School senior management team (Steering Group)
 recognises the need for continual vigilance and action where necessary in order to
 safeguard diversity and inclusion sustainability. Therefore, we seek to ensure that an
 internal leadership succession pipeline is developing by affording academic leadership
 opportunities to a wide diversity of staff and regularly taking stock of the demographic
 composition of leadership teams in the various functional areas.

 Finally, our staffing strategy necessarily takes account of the competitive business and
 management labour market and the need to take active steps to retain staff. The foundation
 of our strategy is an equal allocation of workload research time (40% of annual working
 hours) for all teaching and research staff irrespective of grade/status/position.

 Staff development strategy

 Staff development is underpinned by several processes and initiatives. First, mentoring
 during the 3-year probation period as well as ongoing annual Personal Research Plan
 (PRP) for all non-professorial staff. The aim of PRP mentoring (provided by professors) is


                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 to improve individual research profiles, thereby facilitating academic career development.
 Involving professorial staff in mentoring less senior academics is critical to the capacity-
 building component of our research strategy. Mentoring is also available beyond the
 School with dedicated Queen Mary schemes specifically for female and BAME staff
 seeking leadership positions (see REF5a Section 3). Second, appraisal and development
 processes overseen by the Associate Dean for Academic Staff Development (Cornelius)
 (since 2020-21 Associate Dean for People, Culture and Inclusion). This critical role
 ensures equitable treatment of staff, effective mentoring and support for early career
 researchers, and accessible advice and guidance to staff seeking promotion and
 sabbatical leave. Third, Queen Mary provides for eligibility for generous sabbatical leave
 (six months after three years’ service or one year within seven years) which the School is
 proactive in facilitating via a guidance document, annual information sessions and one-to-
 one coaching. In the current REF cycle, 67 SBM academics (36 women, 31 men) have
 been awarded sabbaticals.

 Queen Mary supports the ‘Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers’
 and is therefore committed to providing a plethora of developmental initiatives. Queen Mary-
 wide researcher training is available on many topics (see REF5a Section 3) and there is a
 dedicated ECR development programme. At School level we provide financial support for
 external research training according to individual interests and needs as well as regular
 internal developmental events, for example, annual Research Away-Day; ECR workshops;
 research funding workshops; Writing Retreats; Meet the Editors workshops; Fast track the
 Impact of your Research workshop; Publishing Strategies workshops. Informally, we take
 steps to foster collegial and developmental peer relationships via provision of financial
 resources to support the collective activities of research units.

 Further, we seek to facilitate continuous professional development by provision of an annual
 personal research allowance of £2000, which all T&R staff receive to be spent in pursuance
 of their research activity, and particularly on conference attendance. Staff returning from
 extended leave due to personal circumstances (e.g. maternity, paternity, eldercare, illness)
 receive up to an extra £1000 personal research allowance in the first year of return. In the
 current REF period, we also made 38 Research Excellence awards of £1000 to 27
 colleagues for articles published in ABS4/4* journals and/or for university press
 monographs. Other School-level financial support for research development comprises a
 number of funding schemes that combined amount to £60,000 of awards per annum.

 Funding schemes are: (i) Seed-Corn awards of up to £5,000 for innovative discrete research
 projects and pilot projects intended to lead to an external grant application; (ii) Research
 Environment awards of up to £5,000 to fund activities such as on-campus conferences and
 workshops, international research collaborations/networks, international academic visitors;
 (iii) Distinguished Visiting Scholar awards that enable staff to invite high profile academics
 to visit the School for a short period of residence. In the current REF period, we have made
 28 Seed Corn awards amounting to some £107,282 and 76 Environment awards amounting
 to some £157,957. The Research Committee receives and makes decisions on award
 applications biannually, an approach that provides for collective decision-making on the
 distribution of research funds, and which again serves the purpose of mitigating any
 potential for individual unconscious bias related to protected characteristics. We carry out
 an annual EDI impact assessment of applications and awards to check for any potential
 bias, which to date has not indicated any unfair discrimination on basis of gender or
 ethnicity.

 Various productive and impactful research projects have resulted from these awards. For
 example, Kirton’s £3,500 Seed-Corn award for a discrete qualitative project investigating
 the gender and union effects of the restructuring and partial privatisation of the probation
 service resulted in three articles in high reputation journals as well as a report for the main


                                                                                        Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 probation trade union and media coverage. Ozturk’s £1,000 Seed-Corn award for a
 qualitative project on transgender workplace policy development resulted in one article in a
 high reputation journal as well as a planned larger project and grant application.

 (ii) Research students

 Our School is a member of the Queen Mary/King’s/Imperial London Interdisciplinary Social
 Science (LISS) ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP), an internationally recognised
 centre of excellence. A lively and active community of doctoral students is central to our
 research culture and our commitment to contributing to the development of the profession.
 Former PhD students have been appointed to the School (Tatli, Wright) and to other
 universities including Edinburgh, Essex, Exeter, Oxford, Reading, SOAS, UCL.

 Over the last five years, we have built our PhD programme significantly with strong support
 through the Queen Mary PhD growth strategy (see REF5a Section 2). Since REF 2014, our
 PhD programme has increased in size from 42 to 80 FTEs in 2020-21 with annual intake of
 around 12-15 students. Our completion rate has improved from 50% for the cohort entry
 2010-11 to 75% for the cohort entry 2014-15. 48.2 students have been awarded PhDs
 (compared to 14.5 in the previous REF period). Our PhD community is both gender and
 ethnically diverse: 62% of students are female and 79% are BAME. We believe that our
 PhD programme owes its diversity to a combination of factors including the breadth and
 scope of our research themes, our success in attracting international students and our
 sensitivity to ensuring equal treatment of applicants.

 We advertise PhD opportunities across the breadth of our research units in order to build
 capacity in those areas central to our research mission and in addition, we encourage
 applicants to submit interdisciplinary proposals involving joint supervision with other Queen
 Mary Schools. Our PhD students affiliate with our research units and participate in their
 activities, which serves as an important means of integrating them within their subject-based
 academic communities as well as enhancing their general wellbeing. Since 2014, 12
 students have pursued interdisciplinary projects co-supervised with the schools of Law (3),
 Politics and International Relations (2), Electronic Engineering and Computer Science (1),
 Mathematical Sciences (2), Geography (2), Life Sciences Institute (1) and English and
 Drama (1). In the current REF period, reflecting the increased quality of applicants, 59 PhD
 students have been in receipt of internationally competitive, merit-based scholarships from
 the School/Queen Mary. The School has also recruited high calibre applicants with external
 funding support (typically through scholarships from governments internationally, including
 China Scholarship Council (11), Commonwealth Scholarship Commission (1), Higher
 Education Commission Pakistan (3), Higher Education Commission Punjab (1) and Saudi
 Arabian Government (3), Indonesian Government (1). There are currently five students
 funded by UK Research Councils (ESRC LISS DTP (4); ESRC Multidisciplinary Award (1)).
 In addition, since 2017, the School has awarded tuition fee waivers to self-funded students
 on a competitive basis.

 We have two large dedicated office spaces for PhD students. The School provides financial
 support (£1,000 per annum) for all PhD students for conferences and other research
 expenses. Students can also apply for additional support from Queen Mary’s Postgraduate
 Research Fund to cover costs such as international fieldwork. They may also participate in
 Erasmus arrangements. We ensure rigorous supervision, monitoring and training
 procedures managed by the PhD Director (Panzarasa, previously Muradoglu, Tatli). All PhD
 students have two supervisors, who undertake mandatory supervisory training. The PhD
 Director guides students through the Doctoral Record, a nine-month progression exercise,
 and 24-month progress review. Queen Mary’s Centre for Academic and Professional
 Development provides skills-based training and career development workshops for PhD
 students, while the School runs a compulsory bespoke doctoral training programme, taught


                                                                                      Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 by senior SBM academics. All PhD researchers are able to attend research workshops and
 training sessions run by LISS ESRC DTP whilst the PhD sessions run by the school are
 open to LISS DTP students allowing students to access interdisciplinary research
 approaches. In addition, the School offers a range of skills training courses including Stata
 and Nvivo, videography workshops, and organises an annual PhD Away Day and PhD
 Symposium. The school provides financial and administrative support for PhD-led activities
 including a film-screening Club and social/networking events.

 The PhD programme has an EDI Committee whose remit is to identify ways of advancing
 EDI in the PhD community, including measures to enhance integration of PhD researchers
 from diverse backgrounds. It also explores opportunities for and barriers to employability
 and career development from an EDI perspective. Actions have been taken in the following
 areas: (a) work-life balance (e.g. provision of recordings of PhD methodology sessions to
 ensure accessibility for those with caring responsibilities); inviting children of PhD
 researchers to key celebratory events such as the annual PhD festive dinner; (b) improving
 the School PhD webpage to reflect diversity and inclusion; (c) career progression and
 employability advice (e.g. seminars by BAME and women alumni on their career
 experiences); (d) EDI awareness raising (e.g. film screening and discussion sessions led
 by PhD researchers on key areas including (trans)gender identity, race and ethnicity, social
 class, among others).

 The considerable investment we have made in our PhD programme ensures that we are
 able to attract high calibre students who we can be confident will go on to contribute to
 academic research reflecting our mission.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 (i) Research income

 Our research income is on an upward trajectory: the total value of awards granted in the
 current REF period is approximately £1.9 million compared with £929,000 in the REF 2014
 period. These awards include a Wellcome Trust grant of £588,000 (Perrotta, PI) and a
 £241,000 Marie Sklodowska-Curie Fellowship (Kirton, PI), plus a number of smaller awards
 granted by prestigious organisations such as ESRC and British Academy. Our strategy is
 to build on this upward trend so that our research income better reflects the quality of our
 research. We will continue to support colleagues in the effort to gain research awards
 through grant applications training, pre- and post-award mentoring, and pre- and post-award
 administrative support. We operate internal peer review of all grant applications in order to
 improve quality and hence likelihood of success. We believe that the support we have in
 place has proved critical to the rise in research income since REF 2014. We appointed a
 School Research Manager in 2016 with a remit to provide greater administrative support to
 grant applicants and to proactively search for grant and other research funding
 opportunities. The School also works closely with the Queen Mary central research support
 services (such as the Faculty Research Manager, Business Development Unit and Joint
 Research Management Office).

 The School provides incentives for research grant applications through seed corn funding,
 encouraging colleagues to use sabbatical leave to develop applications and allocating
 successful applicants additional research funds. The School also encourages and supports
 bids for other external research awards such as those offered by companies, charitable
 sector, government departments etc. Equally, we are cognisant of the fact that a high
 proportion of our academics undertake research of the type that leads to high quality
 outputs, collaborations and impact/engagement activities, sometimes with the support of
 internal School awards, but without the necessity of external funding, particularly large


                                                                                      Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 grants. This means that rather than setting all individual staff a research income-generation
 objective, we take an individual approach encouraging and enabling high quality
 applications/bids from selected academics based on a careful appraisal of their career
 stage, personal research goals, research/outputs profile, intended collaborations, etc. Our
 expectation is that this more targeted and developmental approach will increase not just
 application/bid rates, but also success.

 (ii) Infrastructure and facilities

 The Research Committee is at the heart of our research infrastructure serving to promote
 collegial governance of research. The Committee, chaired by the Associate Dean for
 Research, consists of representatives from all Centres and Groups, PhD Director, plus an
 early career representative reflecting our diversity and inclusion commitment and
 exemplifying how our research mission influences our internal policies and practices. The
 Research Committee meets monthly and oversees the research budget for all discretionary
 School research awards covering visiting academics, research events, and seed corn
 funding. The Committee is also the principal conduit for consultation on major research
 policy matters, for example, early in 2020 we held a Research Committee Away Day as a
 space for members to discuss our research strategy beyond REF 2021.

 The research units described above are another core component of our research
 infrastructure providing intellectual meeting places for our researchers. In 2015-16, in
 consultation with the Research Committee, the School produced a formal document setting
 out the role, structure, and expectations of Centres/Groups/Clusters, and established a
 transparent process for gaining recognition as such. Centres and Groups operate on the
 principle of accountable autonomy. Reflecting this principle, they receive annual funding of
 £6,500 (Centres) and £3,250 (Groups) to spend on a wide range of activities including, but
 not limited to running a regular events programme; hosting visiting research fellows; hosting
 stakeholder impact and engagement events. In addition, Centre and Group leads receive
 an annual 5% reduction in their teaching/administration workload. Centres and Groups
 undertake activities including: applying for major funding; publishing a working paper series;
 contributing to the School research news website/newsletter; producing a wide range of
 high quality academic and technical/non-academic outputs. Clusters are evolving,
 emergent, organic and self-organising groups of researchers whose work has synergies
 cutting across Research Centres/Groups; they may be temporary or may evolve over time
 into Groups or Centres; they receive start-up financing of £1,500 and are eligible for Seed
 Corn and Environment Fund awards to support their ongoing activities.

 We proactively deploy our infrastructure to create a stimulating and inclusive research
 environment. For example, we hold weekly research seminars during term time with
 contributions from invited external academics as well as internal colleagues. Our research
 units are tasked with responsibility for nominating research seminar contributors, but equally
 any member of T&R staff may make direct nominations. With regard to EDI considerations,
 one action from the Athena Swan application was to monitor the gender of seminar
 contributors and to encourage roughly equal proportions of males/females. We also host a
 plethora of other regular research events and workshops that often involve academic
 visitors from around the world. Examples include, annual Behavioural Finance Working
 Group conference; annual Working Group on Inequality and Poverty Workshop and Annual
 Globalisation Seminar Series hosted by Centre for Globalisation Research; Centre for
 Research in Equality and Diversity Annual Public Lecture. During the current REF period,
 we have hosted academic visitors from universities around the globe including France,
 India, USA, Denmark, Turkey, Spain, Australia, China, Brazil, Korea, Italy. This includes
 three Distinguished Visiting Fellows (under the Queen Mary HSS scheme), Professor
 Sarosh Kuruvilla from School of Industrial and Labor Relations, Cornell University, USA;



                                                                                       Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Professor Belle Rose Ragins, Lubar School of Business, University of Wisconsin, USA;
 Professor Sugata Marjit, Centre for Studies in Social Sciences, Calcutta, India.

 With regard to practical research facilities, the School’s budget for research software and
 databases is around £280,000 (2019-20), which purchases recurring subscriptions to major
 business data streams as well as to software licences for both generic and specialist
 quantitative and qualitative data analytical tools.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our strategy since the School’s establishment in 2002 has been, and continues to be, to
 recruit academic staff who share a common commitment to contributing to their respective
 subject fields via a range of research leadership activities. Activities such as journal editorial
 board membership; organising workshops, conferences and conference streams;
 collaborating with other researchers nationally and internationally, engaging and
 collaborating with stakeholders beyond higher education. Our staff also share a common
 concern to build research capacity within and beyond Queen Mary by actively seeking high
 calibre PhD students and by including resource provision for post-doctoral researchers and
 research assistants in grant applications (e.g. Perrotta’s Wellcome Trust award). In addition,
 all our research staff contribute substantively and significantly to the research base of their
 respective subject fields through high quality, international publications.

 (i) Research collaborations and partnerships within academia

 The international reach of SBM research provides many opportunities for our staff to
 collaborate with academics in many countries. This is evidenced by international co-
 authorship of many of our research outputs as well as significant joint research grants and
 collaborations with non-UK universities, for example:

    •   Healy’s EU Commission grant for work on gender pay gaps with colleagues at the
        Universities of Verona and Silesia;
    •   von Graevenitz’s ESRC grants for work on Google Analytics with colleagues at
        Santa Clara California and the OECD, and also for work on patents with the Max
        Planck Institute for Innovation and Competition in Münich;
    •   Martins’ EU Commission grant with University of Edinburgh, Catholic University of
        Milan, University of Crete and Bank of Spain
    •   Laffin’s participation in an EU-funded seminar programme on international
        comparative analysis of reform of local government reform (COST Action IS1207);
    •   Ladi’s Portuguese government grant for work on democracy during crises with
        colleagues in Lisbon, and a Newton grant for work on the EU’s relationship with
        global governance with colleagues at Bilkent University.
    •   Haslam’s, Johal’s and Tsitsianis’s participation in the Foundational Economy, a
        collective of academics from a number of European universities collaborating to
        publish work challenging mainstream ideas about economic policy.

 Likewise, many colleagues collaborate with UK-based academics (again as evidenced by
 our outputs) and pursue funded collaborations with UK university partners and Queen Mary
 colleagues in other Schools, for example:

    •   Von Graevenitz’s ESRC grant with colleagues at City and Glasgow universities for
        work on intellectual property;
    •   Wright’s British Academy grant for work on equality bargaining in the rail sector with
        colleagues at the universities of West of England and Greenwich;



                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    •   Kirton’s British Academy grants with a colleague at De Montfort University on
        diversity practitioners, on equality, diversity and employment relations in midwifery
        and nursing, and on women returning to the workplace after a career break with a
        colleague at Roehampton University;
    •   Dar’s AHRC award with colleagues in Queen Mary’s School of English and Drama
        for research investigating the value of arts methodologies in service evaluation;
    •   Campling’s longstanding collaboration with colleagues in Queen Mary’s School of
        Geography and in law and politics at the University of Warwick on global labour
        regimes.

 (ii) Collaborations beyond academia

 Beyond academia, our staff use their research expertise to engage and collaborate with a
 range of external organisations reflecting our core ethos of contributing to pursuance of
 social justice, good governance and sustainability in wider society. These collaborations
 include government departments/agencies, trade unions, non-profit organisations, private
 companies, industry/occupational/professional bodies, international financial/economic
 institutions. Such collaboration is supported by School resources including Environment
 awards (available for example, for hosting collaborative stakeholder events;
 attending/hosting networking events). The following examples in the current REF period
 illustrate how our research units have helped to create pathways for our core research
 themes to influence policy and practice both locally and globally:

 CGR: Bandyopadhyay is a consultant and advisor for the World Bank, South Asia and Africa
 groups, and consultant and advisor, Department for International Development, UK
 Government. She has contributed to World Bank reports and UK government White
 Papers on poverty reduction and economic management in the South Asian region and
 on the provision of knowledge based infrastructures in Sub-Saharan Africa. Granville
 serves as trustee of Effective Intervention (EI), a UK-registered non-governmental
 organization that designs and implements aid projects to demonstrate effective, inexpensive
 means to reduce child mortality and to raise the level of education in developing countries.

 CLGP: Campling’s work on the reform of subsidies to the global fisheries sector via
 proposed new rules at the World Trade Organisation is in collaboration with several
 international organisations including the Commonwealth Secretariat, Pacific Islands Forum
 Secretariat, Pacific Islands Forum Fisheries Agency, and UNCTAD. Campling's research
 has significantly influenced the negotiation positions of the Pacific Island WTO
 members. His work on labour regimes is in collaboration with the International Labour
 Organisation, European Trade Union Institute, European Parliament, Korean Confederation
 of Trade Unions, among others. This work has fed directly into the policy positions of civil
 society organisations oriented to the reform of labour standards in EU Free Trade
 Agreements. Separate work on labour regimes in the global tuna industry contributed to
 shaping the International Transport Workers Federation’s ‘Catcher to Counter Campaign’,
 which seeks to unionise people working in the fishing industry. Campling’s work is
 elaborated in two of our Impact Case Studies.

 CRED: Dar co-established BreakThrough, an East London Bangladeshi Women's project
 that develops evidence-based interventions addressing discrimination in universities and
 the workplace. The project established the Queen Mary-based ‘Women's Café’ – a hybrid
 research-engagement forum for students and led to the involvement of BreakThrough
 representatives in SBM’s Employability Task Group. Kirton has collaborated with various
 female dominated professional trade unions including Napo (union for probation), RCM
 (Royal College of Midwives), and RCN (Royal College of Nursing) investigating gender and
 race inequalities in the workplace and unions strategies for tackling such. Her work with



                                                                                     Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Napo fed into various policies, campaigns and initiatives aimed at improving gender
 diversity in union decision-making structures and on sustaining workplace union
 organisation after partial privatisation. Martins’ research input to EPIS (Portugal), an NGO
 working on social inclusion themes, provided an important contribution in their expansion
 from supporting 10,000 to 30,000 children and youngsters at risk of poor performance in
 school.

 AARG: Haslam, Johal and Tsitsianis worked with the Labour Party on aspects of financial
 regulation and some of their key recommendations were included in the Labour Party 2019
 election manifesto. Specifically this included policy proposals on reforming company board
 structure and executive pay, and regulation of audit practice. In addition, they have also
 worked with the Welsh Assembly on procurement policies as regards local SME providers
 of elderly social care with a view to reducing the risk exposure associated with outsourcing
 to financialised companies.

 BFWG: Muradoglu was a consultant to the Canada Deposit Insurance Corporation and an
 undisclosed Asian country’s Deposit Insurance Corporation on a project designed to prevent
 bank runs. Annual BFWG conferences have had contributions from institutions such as
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York, European Central Bank, Bank of Italy and US Pension
 Policy Centre. In recognition of the group’s contribution to practitioner debates, the Institute
 of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales sponsors the attendance of 15 UK-based
 PhD students at the BFWG annual conference.

 MICB: Members collaborate with various charities and NGOs (e.g. UNHCR, Decision
 Research) on projects related to charitable giving, the goal of which is to help such
 organisations improve their outreach to potential benefactors thereby increasing donations.
 The outcomes of these collaborations include input to the development of communication
 instruments (e.g. websites) aiming to increase public awareness of and sensitivity to topics
 related to donations and charitable behaviour.

 OPPRG: Panzarasa has collaborated with HealthUnlocked, the largest provider of health-
 related online platforms in the UK, to investigate the role of social media in facilitating
 disease self-management aimed at improving people's illness experience and developing
 effective self-care interventions. Asthma UK is using the research results to provide better
 self-management support interventions through peer-to-peer interactions and is exploring
 new ways of providing better medical training and control mechanisms. Panzarasa is also
 discussing with AstraZeneca how this research can support their "Mission for Change"
 aimed at improving the use of asthma inhalers.

 Borderlines: Ibrahim works with European Council of Exiles and Refugees through which
 she disseminates her research on refugees by contributions to their monthly newsletter.
 Ibrahim also collaborates on refugee research projects with Doctors without Borders. In
 collaboration with Live Art Development Agency (LADA), Rai is working on a project, which
 considers what forms of management and methodologies of organisation might be more
 appropriate and effective for radical new forms of artistic practice for socially marginalised
 artists; the outputs of this project will be co-created gatherings at LADA, a public event, artist
 residencies and a film.

 PMR: Ladi is a member of a team of consultants for the Centre of Employers and
 Enterprises providing Public Services (CEEP), on the programme “Exchange of practices
 between leaders of public services”. A report titled Squaring the Circle: Innovations and
 Tools of Balancing Restructuring and Cost-Saving with longer Term Visions of Sustainable
 and High Quality Public Services published in 2015 was presented to policy-makers. She
 also collaborated with the Institute of Management on the production of training material for
 policy-makers and migration managers on evidence-based policy-making and with the


                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Greek National Centre for Public Administration and Local Government for the delivery of a
 study on the Europeanization of public administration training programmes. On a range of
 projects focused on regulatory innovation and new forms of data, Panagiotopoulos has
 collaborated with the Better Regulation Executive at the Department for Business, Energy
 & Industrial Strategy, the Food Standards Agency, the Environment Agency of Wales and
 England and the Better Regulation team at DEFRA.

 (iii) Staff’s wider research-related activities and contributions to the research base

 Demonstrating embeddedness in business and management academic networks, SBM
 staff contribute significantly to governance of three of the UK’s leading associations for
 business and management: Chartered Association of Business Schools (Matousek),
 Society for the Advancement of Management Studies (Robertson), British Academy of
 Management (Cornelius). In addition, SBM academics have formal roles in other major
 academic associations, including Divisions of the Academy of Management (Doldor, Tatli)
 and International Labour and Employment Relations Association (Kirton). 6 and Laffin are
 Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences.

 SBM academics hold, or have held during this REF period, senior editorial positions on a
 number of high reputation journals: Work, Employment and Society (Adamson); Journal of
 Agrarian Change (Campling); Personnel Review (Cornelius); Accounting Forum (Haslam);
 Human Resource Management Journal; Gender Work and Organization (Kirton);
 Economic Modelling (Mallick); Journal of Banking & Finance; International Journal of
 Monetary Economics and Finance (Matousek); European Journal of Finance; Journal of
 International Financial Markets Institutions and Money; Frontiers of Finance and
 Economics; Review of Behavioural Finance (Muradoglu); Journal of Political Marketing
 (O’Shaughnessy). Additionally, our academics also currently serve, or have served in this
 REF period, as members of some 50 journal editorial boards across a wide spectrum of
 business and management subject fields.




                                                                                    Page 20
