Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Cambridge

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 8 (Chemistry)


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 Context
 (Category A submitted staff in bold)


 The Department of Chemistry has a thriving research culture. We host a large number of
 internationally leading research groups and collaborate with many University departments and
 companies, locally and internationally. We have 56 permanent academic staff, and a continuously
 cycling population of about 20 independent research fellows, 200 postdoctoral researchers, and
 300 postgraduate students. Several retirements within the REF period have given us opportunities
 to refresh and diversify our research portfolio. We have appointed two established researchers to
 named Chairs (Hunter, Herchel Smith Professor of Organic Chemistry; Gaunt, Yusuf Hamied
 1702 Chair), and ten Early Career Researchers to lectureships (Archibald, Bernardes,
 Bronstein, Forse, Giorio, Jack, Lee, Reinhardt, Schmidt, Thom). Many of our distinguished
 Emeritus Professors (JClarke, Frenkel, WJones, Ley, Sanders) are still research active, publishing
 and making important Departmental contributions through mentoring and fund-raising.


 Our research embraces challenging new fields while maintaining a powerful presence in the
 traditional core areas of chemistry. We have strong collaborations with industry, international
 bodies, and other scientific disciplines, because we believe these are the best way to tackle vital
 global challenges, from climate change and renewable energy to ageing and disease. Examples
 of important discoveries made in the Department during the REF period include:
    •   Discovery of the role of secondary nucleation in the aggregation of misfolded proteins that
        lead to Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s diseases (Knowles, Vendruscolo, Dobson).
    •   The first directly observed fragmentation of a prion protein, which is a key process in the
        replication and spreading of prions in disease (Klenerman).
    •   Elucidation of the role of G-quadruplex structures in the progression of cancer
        (Balasubramanian).
    •   Identification of the molecular mechanism behind hardening of the arteries (Duer).
    •   Total synthesis of E. coli with a recoded genome, a defining milestone in synthetic
        genomics (Chin).
    •   Detailed characterisation of the relationship between chemical structure and dynamics and
        the functional behaviour of lithium-ion and sodium-ion batteries (Grey).




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Development of new hybrid photoelectrochemical cell architectures that efficiently convert
        solar energy into chemical fuels (Reisner).
    •   Discovery of a new high-strength, self-healing supramolecular polymer (Scherman,
        Abell).
    •   Creation of new and general processes for alkylamine synthesis (Gaunt).


 Review of plans described in 2014


 The major strategic objectives outlined in REF2014 have been achieved as follows:
    •   The £24M Chemistry of Health building, funded jointly by the UK Research Partnership
        Investment Fund, private investors and benefactors, opened in 2018. It houses the Centre
        for Misfolding Diseases and the Chemistry of Health Incubator, one of the first start-up
        incubators to be completely integrated into a UK department.
    •   The £63M interdisciplinary Maxwell Centre opened in 2016 in West Cambridge. It houses
        the Centre of Advanced Materials for Integrated Energy Systems, which provides state of
        the art facilities for Department researchers to work on projects involving solar cells,
        thermo-electrics, fuel cells and batteries.
    •   We have strengthened our international position in atmospheric chemistry research and
        our role in the National Centre for Atmospheric Science (NCAS) by appointing three new
        Lecturers (Archibald, Giorio, Schmidt) and securing NCAS funding for two Senior
        Research Associates (Abraham, Griffiths). We have also significantly expanded our
        instrumentation for characterisation of greenhouse gases, including a network of high
        precision field instruments deployed around London.
    •   We have strengthened research in organic chemistry through three appointments that
        span biological, polymer, and supramolecular chemistry (Bernardes, Bronstein, Hunter).
    •   We have enhanced our materials characterisation instrumentation by establishing a new
        facility for electron microscopy, which has both SEM and TEM with EELS and cryo-
        capability, and an integrated facility for powder and single-crystal X-ray diffraction. Three
        new posts (Bond and two technicians) have been created to ensure that we have
        appropriate expertise to fully exploit these facilities.


 Research structure


 Our research is organised around five research interest groups (RIG). We believe this structure
 promotes collaboration and exchange of ideas both within and between the RIGs, and enables
 effective planning of research strategy, infrastructure and staffing. The RIGs also provide an
 important conduit for interdisciplinary collaboration with other University departments and industry.


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In order to free academic time for research, we also have five full-time teaching-only staff. The
 major administrative leads are Keeler, who is Head of Department (HoD), and his Deputy,
 Bampos. We regularly consult an experienced international Scientific Advisory Panel, who
 provide external perspective.


 Biological RIG

 The major focus of research in the Biological RIG is the development of new tools for investigating
 and manipulating biological systems. Chemical and biochemical methods are being developed for
 introducing new functionalities into proteins in cells, either by re-engineering of cellular genetic
 codes or by chemoselective bio-orthogonal labelling strategies. New microdroplets platform
 technologies are being developed for single cell selection and sequencing. New approaches that
 are being developed for sequencing chemically modified DNA bases will have a major impact in
 biology. The appointment of Bernardes in the REF period expands the applications into antibody
 therapies. Drug development is at the heart of many research programmes, including improving
 the approaches to fragment-based drug discovery, identifying novel DNA structures as potential
 drug targets, designing synthetic molecules that interfere with the mechanisms essential for
 cancer cells, and developing methods to modify protein therapeutics.


 The Centre for Misfolding Diseases (CMD) provides a focus for research into the molecular
 processes underlying protein misfolding diseases, including Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s
 (Vendruscolo, Knowles). The CMD is located in the new Chemistry of Health building, which
 brings together researchers from a wide variety of scientific backgrounds, and includes the
 Chemistry of Health Incubator, creating a seamless interface between research and practical
 applications. The Incubator is currently host to Wren Therapeutics, a start-up company developing
 small molecule therapies for degenerative diseases.


 Materials RIG

 The Materials RIG is developing synthetic routes and applying state-of-the-art characterisation
 techniques to a range of new materials with applications from renewable energy to medicine.
 Highly interdisciplinary approaches are being used to monitor structural changes that occur during
 the long-term operation of batteries, and to study solid-state electrolytes for fuel cell membranes.
 Work on artificial photosynthesis and solar fuels aims to develop sustainable energy carriers and
 chemicals, and JZhang brings new expertise in implementation of the photosynthetic machinery
 of biological cells for renewable fuel synthesis and biosensors. The appointment of Bronstein
 (joint with Physics) and Forse in the REF period broadens the scope into conjugated polymers for
 organic solar cells, and new materials for CO2 capture. Research programmes at the interface


                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with medicine are focused on the development of novel materials for drug delivery, and
 understanding how disease changes the properties of tissue, important in both ageing and cancer.


 The Melville Laboratory for Polymer Synthesis provides a focus for research on polymeric
 materials (Scherman, Vignolini). Researchers here are developing new synthetic polymers for
 bespoke applications, from self-assembled nanoconstructs for the delivery of therapeutics to
 sustainable, recyclable biopolymers for pigments and sensors.


 Physical RIG

 Researchers in the Physical RIG have a shared emphasis on gaining insight into chemical
 systems through quantitative measurement. Research spans the range from nanoscale
 phenomena in catalysis and corrosion to global climate change; from single-molecule studies
 relevant in biomedical research to the development of innovative sensors for the monitoring of
 pollution or clinical diagnosis. Advanced surface science techniques are being used to study real-
 world problems in corrosion, catalysis, oil refining, and engine lubrication.


 The Centre for Experimental Biophysical Chemistry brings together physical chemists,
 biophysicists, optical engineers, and computer scientists with a shared interest in experimental
 biophysics (Klenerman, Knowles), who are combining tools from chemistry and physics to
 develop new approaches to probe the behaviour of biomolecules, including single-molecule
 fluorescence techniques that directly image biological processes with unparalleled resolution. The
 appointment of Lee in the REF period has expanded the scope of this work into multidimensional
 super-resolution imaging.


 The Centre for Atmospheric Science is a joint venture with the Departments of Applied
 Mathematics and Theoretical Physics and Geography (Pyle, RJones, Griffiths, Kalberer,
 Abraham). State-of-the-art modelling and data analysis are combined with laboratory and field
 measurements to probe the ways in which natural and anthropogenic chemistries influence the
 atmosphere at local and global scales. Networks of low-cost ultra-small sensors are being used to
 monitor urban air pollution and provide evidence regarding its effect on human health. The
 appointments of Archibald, Giorio and Schmidt (joint with Geography) in the REF period have
 expanded capabilities in global atmospheric and climate modelling, volcanology, and the effects of
 particles in the atmosphere on climate and public health.
 Synthesis RIG


 Research in the Synthesis RIG focuses on developing state-of-the-art methods for the assembly
 of functional molecules that are important in medicine, crop science and materials. The


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development of new catalytic processes for small molecule synthesis focusses on C-H bond
 activation, photoredox chemistry, and enantioselective catalysis. Diversity-oriented synthesis
 continues to be a major activity, providing small molecule libraries for biological collaborators to
 screen for drug leads or biological tools. The use of self-assembly for the construction of large
 porous containers promises to solve problems of chemical purification in new energy-efficient
 ways. In the REF period, Gaunt was appointed to the Yusef Hamied 1702 Chair, the recruitment
 of Hunter has opened new directions in physical organic chemistry and sequence polymers, and
 Phipps brings new expertise in supramolecular catalysis. Advances in the development of flow
 reactors, high throughput synthesis and analytical platforms underpin much of this research, while
 there is an increasing emphasis on computational chemistry to provide understanding and
 predictive tools.


 Theory RIG

 The Theory RIG aims to advance fundamental understanding and computational tools in all areas
 of molecular science in soft and condensed matter. Active research projects cover quantum
 dynamics and electronic structure, statistical mechanics, electrochemistry, drug discovery and
 energy landscapes. Researchers work on new algorithms for global optimisation, enhanced
 thermodynamic sampling, and rare event dynamics, with applications to structure prediction and
 analysis of emergent observable properties. Novel methods to compute fundamental quantities
 such as configurational entropy and tunnelling splittings will provide new insight into complex
 systems including granular materials and water in clusters, liquids and solids. The appointment of
 Thom in the REF period strengthens research on electronic structure and simulation, and the
 appointments of Reinhardt and Jack (joint with Applied Mathematics) bring expertise that will help
 tackle problems difficult for conventional methods to treat, such as glassy materials, self-
 assembly, and addressable complexity.


 The Centre for Chemical Informatics brings together a unique collection of expertise and
 provides a focus for research in the rapidly emerging area of artificial intelligence and data
 analysis as applied to chemistry (Colwell, Goodman, Glen, Bender). New computational tools
 are being developed and applied to drug design, chemical toxicology and medical diagnostic
 support, and there are strong interactions with the pharmaceutical industry.


 Interdisciplinary Research


 Our Departmental structure encourages cross-fertilisation of ideas and promotes interdisciplinary
 research across the Department, University, and other institutions. A number of our staff hold joint
 appointments and have a second research laboratory located in another department:

                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Balasubramanian (Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute), Bronstein (Physics), Chin (MRC
 Laboratory of Molecular Biology), Jack (Applied Mathematics), Klenerman (UK Dementia
 Research Institute), Schmidt (Geography), SClarke (BP Institute for Multi-Phase Flow). In
 addition, there are a large number of less formal collaborations between the Department and
 other research institutes across Cambridge. For example, the Cambridge Epigenetix spin-out,
 which forms Impact Case Study B_UoA8_CS-08-1555, is a direct result of one such interaction
 with the Babraham Institute.


 Many of our researchers belong to the Lennard-Jones Centre for the Development of
 Computational Methods for Materials Modelling, which connects researchers across the
 University who have an active interest in materials modelling and has a particular strength in
 method development (Alavi, Althorpe, Bender, Colwell, Elliott, Frenkel, Glen, Goodman,
 Jenkins, Sprik, Thom, Vendruscolo, Wales).


 In addition to the research council Centres for Doctoral Training (CDT) and Doctoral Training
 Programmes (DTP), which are described in section 3, our researchers connect to cross-school and
 interdisciplinary research in key thematic areas through the University’s Strategic Research
 Initiatives and Networks (SRI, SRN) and Interdisciplinary Research Centres (IRC). Multiple
 members of the Department play an active role in each of the following:
    •   CamBridgeSens SRN for sensor technology
    •   Cancer Research UK IRC
    •   Cardiovascular Disease IRC
    •   Centre for Data-Driven Discovery IRC
    •   Energy Transitions at Cambridge IRC
    •   Global Challenges SRI
    •   Immunology SRN
    •   Infectious Diseases IRC
    •   Neuroscience IRC
    •   Synthetic Biology IRC
 Further interdisciplinary collaborations are listed in section 4.


 Research strategy and goals for the next five years


 Our overall aim is to support fundamental science of the highest quality in a first-class physical
 environment, with a recognition that the global problems we face require collaborations across
 scientific areas as well as with the public and private sector. The two key objectives that shape
 our research strategy are:


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •    to recruit talented scientists and provide them with the research environment and
         infrastructure that they require to flourish,
    •    to maintain a diverse research portfolio by leading new developments in both fundamental
         chemistry and at the interface with other disciplines.


 Recognising the need to accommodate different ideas, methods and directions that will come with
 the future recruitment of world-class researchers, the three broad areas outlined below form the
 basis of our current research strategy:
    •    Chemistry of Health aims to advance the understanding of health and disease in a
         number of areas that are of global importance, including ageing, neurodegenerative
         disease, cancer and infection. This area combines chemistry, biology, biochemistry, bio-
         engineering and medicine and addresses the UK Industrial Strategy Grand Challenge of
         Ageing Society.
    •    Sustainable Energy, Environment and Climate aims to increase understanding of the
         impact of chemical processes on the environment and to develop sustainable energy
         systems. This area combines atmospheric chemistry, computer modelling, engineering
         and materials science, and addresses the UK Industrial Strategy Grand Challenge of
         Clean Growth. Cambridge Zero is a new umbrella organisation that will coordinate
         research across the University in this area, and our Department will make a major
         contribution.
    •    Innovative Molecular and Materials Design aims to transform the development and
         assembly of important functional chemicals to produce new high-value products that will
         lead to novel applications in healthcare, agriculture, energy and consumer products. This
         area combines synthetic chemistry, materials, physics and engineering, and addresses the
         UK Industrial Strategy Grand Challenges of Future of Mobility and Clean Growth.


 These three areas will continue to be underpinned by strong interactions with one of the UK’s
 largest theory, modelling and informatics groups. Research in the area of theory will address the
 UK Industrial Strategy Grand Challenge of Artificial Intelligence and Data.


 Several senior members of staff are due to retire in the next REF period, and succession planning
 is one of the major priorities in our action plan:
    •    With the sad loss of Dobson, and more recently Abell, we will make appointments in
         chemical biology to secure our leading position in this important area for the longer term.
     •   We will appoint a new 1968 Professor of Chemistry (Michaelides).
     •   To fill the upcoming vacancy in our 1920 Physical Chemistry Chair, we will recruit a world-
         class researcher to take a leadership role in tackling climate change.



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   We will appoint a new Professor of Molecular Sciences Informatics to bring a new vision to
        the Centre for Molecular informatics and exploit the new opportunities in chemistry that
        machine learning opens up.
    •   The development of close links with other departments will continue through joint
        appointments. For example, a new lectureship appointment joint with the Department of
        Genetics will be made (Collepardo).
    •   We will strengthen the Synthesis RIG with two new lectureship appointments.
 We have a strong track record of attracting and supporting young scientists to establish world-
 leading research groups (see Section 2), and we will continue to make opportunistic lectureship
 appointments of talented ECRs.


 We will continue with our programme of upgrading existing facilities and creating new ones as our
 research portfolio evolves, and ensuring we have expert technical support to maintain and use
 them efficiently. Clusters that share funding and resources are important for increasing the range
 and availability of equipment to researchers across disciplines, and we will continue to lead on
 cross-departmental initiatives. This strategy underlies our plan to refurbish several labs for
 synthetic chemistry as part of a £5M ERDF Innovation Centre in Digital Molecular Technology,
 and to seek UKRPIF funding to support research in chemical biology by further developing the
 instrumentation in our purpose-built facility, the Molecular Production and Characterisation Centre.


 To continue our provision of world-class training for research students, we aim to attract more
 graduate student funding by leading in the development of Research Council DTPs, long-term
 industry collaborations and endowed studentships sponsored by alumni.


 Impact strategy


 We support the development of innovative ideas from inception through commercialisation by
 creating opportunities for researchers at all levels in the Department. Our impact strategy has
 three main strands:


 Inception. Our RIG structure and interdisciplinary environment create a fertile atmosphere for the
 regular and robust interchange of ideas often crucial to generating new business concepts. We
 hold a biennial Chemistry Networks event to showcase our research and promote relations with
 industry. We have a full-time Departmental Knowledge Transfer Facilitator, as well as an
 Enterprise Champion (Knowles), who actively help researchers develop their ideas into products,
 apply for funding, and connect with entrepreneurs and the business sector for collaboration and
 support. As a result, the EPSRC Impact Acceleration Account awarded £1.5M in the REF period
 to researchers in the Department to support early-stage development of technology and industry

                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaborations. Our commitment to impact is embodied in the Chemistry of Health Incubator,
 which is deliberately located inside the Department to promote interactions between researchers
 and embryonic spin-outs. Its first occupant Wren Therapeutics (Knowles, Vendruscolo, Dobson)
 has raised an additional £18M since its creation.


 Training. The University offers entrepreneurship courses throughout the year to researchers at all
 levels, providing the knowledge and confidence to make the transition from initial concept to
 concrete business idea. For example, EnterpriseTECH offers a three-month course on
 commercialisation pathways and early-stage business development. Since 2018, 31 PhD students
 and postdocs from the Department have completed the programme, several members of staff
 have submitted projects, and two start-up companies have been created by students from
 Chemistry. Accelerate Cambridge is a 10-week intensive programme that combines
 entrepreneurship training, regular coaching, mentoring, and access to shared workspace. In the
 REF period, five Chemistry spin-out companies have come from this programme. We are now
 integrating these types of entrepreneurial training programmes into our PhD courses. For
 example, all of the SynTech CDT students will receive training from Accelerate.


 Commercialisation. Cambridge Enterprise (CE) supports researchers whose ideas are ready for
 commercialisation through regular webinars and training events; advice on writing business plans;
 help with obtaining patents, securing IP and licencing ideas; supplying board members; providing
 seed funding; and guiding through fundraising rounds. CE has played a key role in supporting
 numerous spin-out companies from the Department.


 The eleven spin-outs generated by the Department in the REF period testify to the success of this
 strategy. Some highlights are:
    •   Xampla (Knowles) is developing single-use biodegradable plastics made from plant
        protein and has raised £2M in investment.
    •   PharmEnable (Bender, Spring) uses artificial intelligence to design drug candidates and
        has raised £1.8M in investment.
    •   Kalium Health (co-founder postdoc Hutter) has developed a fast, accurate and low-cost
        home blood-testing kit for kidney patient potassium levels and has raised £950K in
        investment.
    •   ChemInventory (postgraduate Fitzpatrick) has developed database software licensed to
        2500 institutions in 90 countries. Fitzpatrick won the ACS Talented 12 Competition for
        developing this technology.
    •   Cambridge Oncology (Duer) is developing novel glioblastoma treatments and has raised
        £550K from private investors.



                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 How case studies are related to our approach to achieving impact


 Our REF impact case studies are a direct consequence of the entrepreneurial environment
 fostered by our impact strategy:
    •   Solexa (B_UoA8_CS-08-1551). The technology behind Solexa was developed through the
        regular opportunities within the Department for Klenerman and Balasubramanian to
        become familiar with each other’s work. CE (then known as Wolfson Industrial Unit)
        administered the spin-out, held a Board seat, and helped the University invest.
    •   Astex (B_UoA8_CS-08-1537). Abell benefited from close links with other departments,
        which led to a collaboration with Blundell in Biochemistry. CE invested to help through the
        early stages of the company.
    •   Aqdot (B_UoA8_CS-08-1540). This company resulted from a collaboration between
        Scherman and Abell within the Department. CE provided series A financing and held a
        seat on the board.
    •   Sphere Fluidics (B_UoA8_CS-08-1558). Regular interactions within the Department brought
        Abell and Huck together to form a collaborative microdroplets research group, which led to this
        technology. CE obtained IP filings, developed business propositions, and held a board seat.
    •   Cambridge Epigenetix (B_UoA8_CS-08-1555). Balasubramanian benefited from the
        wider collaborative Cambridge environment by working with Reik at the Babraham
        Institute. CE obtained IP filings, developed business propositions, and provided $30M in
        series C financing.


 In a different arena, the Department has achieved impact through the development of national and
 international collaborative networks, which play an important role in influencing policy. For
 example, Pyle’s work with the National Centre for Atmospheric Science and the Scientific
 Assessment Panel to the Montreal Protocol has directly influenced governmental policy on climate
 change (B_UoA8_CS-08-1561).


 Open research environment and research integrity


 We share the University culture of support for Open Research, and actively encourage all
 researchers to upload their publications into the University Open Access Repository, Apollo. Our
 five Chemistry Data Champions (who include our Librarian and Griffiths) are experts on research
 data management and sharing. They handle researcher queries and speak at Departmental
 meetings. Extensive support, training and advice on organising, sharing and looking after
 research data is provided by the University Research Data Management Team. Our Librarian



                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 provides regular training for Department researchers and facilitates access to the online courses
 and electronic resources provided by the University.


 We provide internal and external online research ethics training to all researchers and a twice-
 termly face-to-face course on Research Integrity. All first-year postgraduates take an Integrity and
 Ethics in Research course; further guidance is provided by RIGs and the University Research
 Integrity website. The University Research Strategy Office provides clear policies, procedures and
 training courses, and the Misconduct in Research Policy sets out a transparent, robust and fair
 process to deal with allegations of misconduct should they occur. The Department upholds the
 commitments in the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and requires all researchers,
 whether staff, students or visitors, to abide by national, European and international standards of
 research integrity.




                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2. People


 We view training, regular appraisals, open communication, and of course the opportunity to take
 part in high class research as the foundations of a healthy environment for our staff. This nurturing
 environment has not only resulted in world-leading researchers, but in highly motivated staff, who
 interact well at all levels.


 Staffing and research strategy


 Our strategy is to hire and support the best people, who can bring new research directions that
 strengthen or complement the three strategic areas described in Section 1. The Senior
 Management Team (SMT) which is composed of the RIG Chairs, Head and Deputy Head of
 Department and senior administrators, is responsible for implementing our research and staffing
 strategy through staff recruitment and infrastructure investment. With advice of the external
 international Scientific Advisory Panel, the SMT has developed a five-year plan to fill the key
 positions which underpin these research areas, as discussed in Section 1.


 Philanthropy is an increasingly important strand in our staffing strategy. Our Next Generation
 Fellowship (NGF) scheme provides up to £250K over five years to new appointments, for
 immediate funding for equipment and researchers. As a result, the first recipients of this scheme
 were rapidly promoted to professor (Jackson, Gaunt, Klenerman, Knowles, Nitschke, Spring,
 Scherman, Vignolini), and the NGF scheme has also led to longer-term relationships with the
 donors. For example, the Frances and Augustus Newman Foundation, which sponsored Knowles
 as an NGF, made a further donation in 2016 for a new microfabrication laboratory and a
 postdoctoral position. Endowments of £1M from the Walters-Kundert Trust and £2M from BP will
 fund three NGFs in perpetuity. Over the REF period, these donations together with the Isaac
 Newton Trust have provided NGF funding for Archibald, Forse, Giorio, Lee and Thom.


 Support for academic staff


 In 2016, we tailored the University Staff Review and Development Scheme to respond to the
 specific pressures and expectations unique to academics in our Department. The collaborative
 process is designed to address individual needs, aspirations and successes, and to facilitate
 career development. It runs on a two-year cycle (after probation) and the HoD reviews the
 outcomes and handles specific requests or issues. Its success is highlighted by the fact that it is
 now being adopted by other science-based departments across the University.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University Senior Academic Promotions Scheme sets out a clear and transparent procedure
 for applications for promotion to University Senior Lecturer, Reader and Professor. Over the REF
 period, Althorpe Archibald, Bender, Bernardes, Bronstein, SClarke, Duer, Goodman,
 Jackson, Jenkins, Knowles, Lee, Leeper, Nitschke, Reisner, Scherman, Spring, Wheatley
 and Vignolini have all received promotions through this scheme.


 We encourage academic staff to expand their networks and build external research collaborations
 through sabbatical leave, accrued at the rate of one term in seven and used exclusively for
 research activities. For example, Duer used her sabbatical in 2018 to found spin-out Cambridge
 Oncology. Scherman established ongoing collaborations in supramolecular hydrogels with
 Tsinghua University during his 2014 sabbatical in China. Althorpe shared his sabbatical in 2015
 between the Chinese Academy of Sciences in Beijing and Caltech in California. Knowles used
 his 2019 sabbatical to develop a new line of research in liquid-liquid phase separation of proteins.
 Grey used her sabbatical to establish the interdisciplinary Centre of Advanced Materials for
 Integrated Energy Systems in the Maxwell Centre, which opened in 2016.


 We also support secondments with industry and the government sector. For example, in a unique
 opportunity to access machine learning expertise and software engineering skills, Colwell has a
 secondment at Google. Archibald has a part-time secondment with the Met Office, where he is
 helping develop a long-term strategy for atmospheric chemistry. Bender combined sabbatical
 leave with a secondment at AstraZeneca, where he leads the Computational Toxicology group.


 During the REF period Abell, SClarke, Grey, Pyle, Spring and Wales have all participated in the
 University’s senior leadership programmes for academics at all career stages. The University’s
 Inclusive Leadership Programme launched in 2019, supports the University’s strategic priorities in
 reducing the risk of explicit or implicit sex, race or other discrimination when making management
 decisions. All those with responsibility for the performance, behaviour and development of others,
 including leaders of research groups have been encouraged to attend.


 Support for postdoctoral researchers


 We value our postdocs, who play an integral role in the research activities of the Department. We
 have put a number of mechanisms in place to ensure they get the most out of their research time
 here, and our Postdoc Affairs Committee keep the HoD and SMT informed of postdocs’ concerns.
 In consultation with them, we have implemented a mentoring scheme for new postdocs, which
 uses a pool of academic volunteers to offer support on work-related issues, career development,
 work-life balance, motivation, confidence and inspiration. The University has implemented the
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and retained its HR Excellence in

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research award in 2015, which recognised a commitment to improving the working conditions
 and career development of research staff. We provide an induction, so new postdocs can learn
 not only about Departmental and safety policies, but also about dignity at work, family-friendly
 hours, and the many University resources available for career and personal development. We
 give clear information to postdocs on how to prepare for their annual review under our Staff
 Review and Development Scheme, where they can discuss achievements, challenges, targets,
 training and personal development with academic staff members, who receive training on how to
 conduct reviews.


 We train postdocs in key skills they will need for their future careers. Postdocs take responsibility
 (with appropriate training) for day-to-day operational issues in research laboratories, such as
 safety, procurement and use of key equipment. With guidance from academic staff, postdocs can
 develop teaching skills by delivering small group undergraduate tutorials or acting as senior
 demonstrators in the undergraduate teaching laboratories. They supervise postgraduate students,
 and devise and supervise undergraduate research projects. Many are College Research
 Associates, which provides them with further opportunities to develop interdisciplinary research
 networks as well as skills such as interviewing for the admissions process. Postdocs are regularly
 invited to present lectures on their research to a wider audience as part of the RIG seminar
 programmes.


 Our impact strategy (see Section 1) provides a range of mechanisms to help postdocs develop
 entrepreneurial skills and an appreciation of the business world. Many of the Department’s spin-
 out companies are led by former postdocs, who were involved from inception to
 commercialisation. Visitors from industry to the Department range from representatives of major
 international companies to local start-ups, and we use these occasions to organise networking
 events that enable postdocs to develop contacts and explore future possibilities for a career in
 relevant industries.


 The Department offer careers training and workshops, and the University provides courses on
 transferable skills, leadership development, time management, career planning, staff review and
 professional development. Between 30 and 40 postdocs from Chemistry enrol annually on the
 University Researcher Development Programme. Most of our postdocs use the Postdoc Careers
 Service, which has specialised careers advisers who arrange one-to-one meetings to discuss
 career choices, to review applications, or to help prepare for interviews.


 In the wider University community, the Postdoc Academy offers programmes such as its
 Mentoring Scheme, which focuses on developmental mentoring and arranges formal matching
 with mentors from academia or industry. All members of staff, including postdocs, get shopping


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 discounts through the employee benefits scheme (CAMbens); and the CAMbens Cars and Cycle
 to Work salary sacrifice schemes help save money on transport costs. Many postdocs from the
 Department have benefited from subsidised housing at the Eddington development in North West
 Cambridge, where the University has recently built high-quality accommodation specifically for
 postdocs. The Postdocs of Cambridge Society also contributes actively to this rich environment of
 support through its many social events.


 The Department not only hosts many externally funded research fellows, but also supports our
 most talented postdocs to take the next steps to independence through internal fellowship
 schemes such as Herchel Smith, Oppenheimer, Borysiewicz or College Research Fellowships.
 The number of postdocs from the Department who have moved into important positions in other
 institutions is an indicator of the success of the training we provide. Since 2014, over 100 of our
 research fellows and postdoctoral researchers have moved on to academic positions at
 prestigious institutions across the world including the USA, the European Union, Australia,
 Canada, China, India, Israel, Japan, Korea, Mexico, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey and the UK.


 Support for research students


 We host around 300 postgraduate research students (PhD or MPhil candidates), as well as
 around 50 students who carry out a research project as part of the Masters programme, admitting
 14-25 MPhil and 65-75 PhD students each year. Almost all of our PhD students complete within
 four years. During the REF period, we awarded 484 PhD degrees. Funding for PhD studentships
 comes from a wide variety of sources, as detailed in Section 3.


 We see the wellbeing of students as key to their (and our) success. All postgraduates are
 assigned a supervisor and an academic mentor (in addition to their college tutor), as well as
 having access to our pool of postdoc mentors. The Departmental support team provides pastoral
 support, and our buddy scheme teams up the new intake with postgraduates who have just
 completed their first year. Supervisors review the progress of every student each term. Reports
 are submitted through the Postgraduate Feedback and Reporting System, which provides
 channels for review and evaluation by students and their tutors. At the end of their first year,
 students submit a thesis for probationary review, and undergo an oral examination by two
 academics. These processes provide multiple pathways for students to obtain independent
 feedback on progress, and mean we can identify and tackle any problems at an early stage.


 The postgraduate training programme consists of compulsory, elective, fundamental and
 specialist academic courses, resulting in many transferable and interdisciplinary skills. We plan
 training in consultation with students through feedback surveys and via student representatives on

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Postgraduate Education Committee. First years take the School of Physical Sciences Core
 Skills Training Programme, which identifies existing skills and gaps. All first years give a talk in
 cross-RIG peer-to-peer sessions, second years present posters, and third years give a lecture to
 a wider audience at the annual Chemistry Showcase Week. We follow the Cambridge Researcher
 Development Framework to help students develop into professional researchers, and the RIGs
 help students become confident members of the Department through weekly seminar
 programmes, internal conferences and workshops that integrate postgraduates, postdocs and
 academics.


 We also encourage students to enroll in University training programmes, which include personal
 development and computer skills courses. Students can take language courses at the University
 Language Centre, and non-native speakers can take the Academic Development and Training for
 International Students. Postgraduates interested in policy can participate in workshops at the
 Centre for Science and Policy. Many of our postgraduates also benefit from the unique training
 and interdisciplinary networking opportunities provided by the multiple CDTs, DTPs and Marie
 Curie ITNs that we are involved in (see Section 3).


 The Department’s careers programme for postgraduates includes talks, workshops and careers
 events hosted by the University Careers service. We also invite industry representatives to the
 Department to discuss careers. For example, postgraduates meet senior researchers from BP
 and present their research in talks and posters at our annual BP Day. Our annual Merck Sharp &
 Dohme (MSD) Lecture is always attended by representatives from the company, who run
 workshops and presentations for those interested in pharmaceutical careers. In 2017, three senior
 female scientists from MSD ran an event to highlight the opportunities and challenges for women
 in industry.


 We actively aim to recruit postgraduates from a wider base by encouraging members of all
 communities to apply. We run an annual Open Day to promote our PhD programme as widely as
 possible, explain the opportunities available, and clarify the application process. We make sure
 that students from underrepresented backgrounds are encouraged to apply for relevant
 scholarships offered by the Cambridge Trust. We can also access the £100M Harding donation to
 fund excellent students who otherwise could not afford to study here. The University is committed
 to raising the profile of researchers with protected characteristics in order to inspire others to
 apply, and the achievements of two of our postgraduates were highlighted as part of Black History
 Month in 2018.




                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Equality and Diversity


 Equality and diversity is of paramount importance at all levels in the Department and is integral in
 all decision-making processes. Training is mandatory for all staff, and equality and diversity are
 specifically considered in planning how the Department is organised and run, in recruitment of
 technical staff, graduate students, postdocs and academic staff, in career progression, in
 providing suitable access to facilities and training, support for securing research grants, access to
 internal funds, conference attendance and sabbaticals, and in the promotion of role models, for
 example through a balanced programme of diverse seminar speakers.


 The Department and the University both hold Athena SWAN Silver Awards. We have policies to
 allow flexible or part-time working, and both male and female staff access the Returning Carers
 Scheme. For example, Schmidt used this scheme to take her family with her while she worked at
 the National Center for Atmospheric Research in Colorado in 2019. We are by no means
 complacent, and continue to institute new ideas and methods gathered through meetings and staff
 surveys to improve equality and diversity. For example, all committee meetings, seminars and
 group meetings are now restricted to core office hours to make it easier for those with parental or
 caring responsibilities to attend. The University has a number of other major initiatives on gender
 including the Women in Science, Engineering and Technology Initiative, which supports women
 from undergraduate through to professorial level in Cambridge, and includes a CV-mentoring
 scheme, generous maternity/paternity/adoption leave, and a scheme called My Family Care,
 which gives employees access to a network of emergency childcare, school holiday cover, and
 backup adult and elderly care.


 All of our academic staff have completed the University Equality and Diversity training. We
 promote the Dignity@Work policy to all new staff, which sets out University procedures for dealing
 with harassment, bullying and other inappropriate behaviours. As a University Equality Champion,
 Bampos provided senior leadership in equality and diversity matters. We run regular Department-
 wide events to raise awareness of diversity issues. For example, we ran an all-day event called
 Celebrating Women in Chemistry in 2019 and a similar Diversity in Chemistry event in 2020.


 The University LGBT+ Staff Network supports all University staff who identify as LGBT+. The
 BAME Staff Network similarly gives voice and visibility to BAME staff. Both networks organise
 monthly social and other events throughout the year to raise awareness and celebrate diversity.
 The University’s three-year action plan on race and racism was acknowledged in 2019 with a
 Race Equality Charter Bronze award. The University also belongs to a number of diversity
 organisations such as the Stonewall Diversity Champions and Business Disability Forum.



                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To ensure accessibility to all, we have a wheelchair lift to the front door and accessible card
 readers to all doors. Our Departmental Disability Liaison Officer ensures that any staff or student
 can request assessment by the University’s Disability Resource Centre, so that they can be
 provided with specialist equipment. We also inform students and staff about the University's
 Occupational Health service, which promotes physical and mental wellbeing, and provides a free
 counselling service.


 The Department recognises the importance of mental health in the workplace and has
 enthusiastically adopted the University’s Wellbeing Initiative. We have created a calming
 wellbeing area in the library, for use by anyone who needs time out. Our Human Resources team
 organises weekly Pilates classes, workshops on mindfulness and tackling stress, quizzes, charity
 coffee mornings, and regular talks about aspects of wellbeing that have become a much-admired
 feature of Departmental life. Many of these activities moved online during the Covid-19 lockdown,
 and additional coffee mornings and webinars on relieving stress and anxiety were arranged.


 We are explicit in the criteria we use to reach hiring, tenure and promotion decisions, and are fully
 committed to the University’s implementation of the San Francisco Declaration on Research
 Assessment. We assess research on its merits and do not use journal-based metrics as a
 surrogate measure of the quality of research articles when assessing researchers. We seek to
 recruit the most diverse pool of applicants possible, and include the following wording in all
 academic recruitment advertisements:


        "We particularly encourage women and/or candidates from a Black, Asian and Minority
        Ethnic background to apply for this vacancy as they are currently under-represented at this
        level within our University. Applications are welcomed from researchers that are either
        internal or external to the University. The University actively supports equality, diversity
        and inclusion and encourages applications from all sections of society.”


 Our REF committee has followed the fair and transparent processes for output and staff selection,
 including appeal procedures and data protection, laid out in the University Code of Practice and
 our own Working Methods document. All our committee members have taken courses on Equality
 and Diversity and on Unconscious Bias to mitigate potential bias in decision-making. Our Equality
 lead (Hunter) ensures the application of equality principles in all decision making. We do not
 consider REF to be an appropriate mechanism for staff appraisal, and staff progression is not
 influenced by whether someone has met the REF criteria for research independence.




                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 Research income


 The total value of our research grant portfolio was £100-120M through the REF period, and
 currently stands at £109M with 276 active grants. Annual expenditure on research funded by
 grants from external sources is normally £20-22M but dipped slightly last year, due to the
 constraints on research activity imposed by the Covid-19 epidemic. In addition, external funding
 for the Chemistry of Health building augmented the expenditure in 2015/2016. Research in the
 Department is supported by a healthy range of different funding sources: Research Councils
 (30%), European Commission (24%), industry (17%), charities (19%), and other sources (10%).
 None of the figures on income or expenditure include trust funds and donations, which contributed
 an additional £1M per annum to research in the Department and increased our total research
 expenditure by 5%.


 We have increased multidisciplinary collaborative grant applications to take advantage of the
 trend toward fewer but larger grants to academic consortia, and we participate in many of the
 most significant UK-wide research clusters, which often provide opportunities to pool major
 instrument facilities and act as hubs for interactions with industry. Highlights include:
    •   UK Dementia Research Institute (£250M MRC, Alzheimer’s Society, Alzheimer’s
        Research UK): Klenerman is a Foundation Professor with a new laboratory on the
        Cambridge Biomedical Campus in this collaboration across six universities.
    •   BP-ICAM (£100M BP): A 15-year project across four universities to investigate novel
        material developments (SClarke, Wright, Frenkel).
    •   Faraday Institution (£65M Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund): Grey leads a £12M
        collaboration with nine other universities and ten industry partners to examine how
        environmental and internal battery stresses damage batteries over time.
    •   Interdisciplinary Research Collaboration on Hard to Treat Cancers (£10M EPSRC):
        This Cambridge-led collaboration brings together academics from five universities with
        clinicians and industry (Scherman).
    •   Sir Henry Royce Institute (£10M EPSRC): The Cambridge spoke of this Manchester-
        based Institute provides equipment-sharing for state-of-the-art experimental facilities for
        energy materials characterisation and deposition, developing strong modes of
        collaborative working between researchers and industry (Grey).
    •   Cambridge Graphene Centre (£7M EPSRC): A Synergy group with the Graphene
        National Institute in Manchester and the University of Lancaster, whose mission is to



                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        investigate the science and technology of graphene, carbon allotropes, layered crystals
        and hybrid nanomaterials, and to promote alignment with industry (Grey, Nitschke).
    •   Prosperity Partnership (£6M BP/EPSRC): A collaboration between four institutions to
        investigate and mitigate the processes that cause surface degradation (SClarke).
    •   Centre of Advanced Materials for Integrated Energy Systems (£4M EPSRC): Grey is
        director of this four-university partnership focusing on development of advanced materials
        for energy conversion and energy storage (Bronstein, Grey, Wright).
    •   UK Chemistry and Aerosol (£3M NCAS, Met Office): Archibald is Science Director of
        this Joint Climate and Weather Research Programme, whose partners include the Hadley
        Centre, and two other universities. Its objective is to develop, evaluate and make available
        an atmospheric chemistry-aerosol global model suitable for a range of topics in climate
        and environmental change research (Pyle, Archibald, Abraham, Griffiths).
    •   RaNT (£6M EPSRC): A collaboration between four institutions and partnering companies
        to identify diseases and treat them in a single, effective non-surgical procedure using light
        and nanoparticles (Scherman).


 Our staff have also been highly successful in attracting individual grants for projects and
 fellowships that allow them to focus full-time on research. ERC grants in the REF period include:
    •   eleven Starting Grants (Bender, Kalberer, Knowles, Nitschke, Vignolini, Bernardes,
        Bronstein, Gaunt, Phipps, Scherman, Spring)
    •   two Consolidator Grants (Reisner, Scherman)
    •   eleven Advanced Grants (Balasubramanian, Chin, Frenkel, Grey x 2, Hunter,
        Klenerman, Nitschke, Pyle, Wales, Wright)


 Individual five-ten year research fellowships in the REF period include:
    •   two Royal Society Research Professorships (Grey, Klenerman)
    •   two EPSRC Established Career Fellowships (Gaunt, Spring)
    •   two EPSRC Leadership Fellowships (Gaunt, Nitschke)
    •   four Royal Society University Research Fellowships (Bernardes, Lee, Phipps, Thom)
    •   an EPSRC Early Career Fellowship (Bronstein)
    •   two BBSRC David Philips Fellowships (Vignolini, JZhang)


 Other major grants in the REF period include:
    •   Abell, £1M Wellcome Trust “Fragment-Based Lead Discovery Against the Protein-Protein
        Interaction between Aurora A and TPX2 for the Treatment of Cancer”
    •   Balasubramanian, £2M Wellcome Trust “The Chemical Biology and Function of Natural
        Modified DNA Bases in Genomes”


                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Balasubramanian, £2M Wellcome Trust “The Chemical Biology of the Genome and the
        Epigenome”
    •   Balasubramanian, £1M CRUK “Structure, Function and Chemical Biology of Nucleic
        Acids”
    •   Grey, £1M EPSRC “Next Generation Solid-State Batteries”
    •   Hunter, £2M EPSRC “The Non-Covalent Chemistry of Complex Systems”
    •   Klenerman, Hunter, £1M EPSRC “PET markers of oligomeric misfolded proteins in
        neurodegenerative disorders”
    •   Nitschke, Hunter, £5M EPSRC with Manchester “Molecular Robotics”
    •   Scherman, £2M Leverhulme Large Grant “Natural Materials Innovation”
    •   Scherman, £5M EPSRC “Nano-Optics to controlled Nano-Chemistry”
    •   Wales, £1M EPSRC “Intrinsically Multifunctional Energy Landscapes”


 As detailed in Section 4, our strong links with the chemical industry and industry-funded
 collaborations are an important element of our research grant portfolio. For example, Apollo
 Therapeutics is a collaborative venture between Imperial, UCL and Cambridge and three global
 pharmaceutical companies (AZ, GSK, Johnson and Johnson Innovation), which provides
 translational funding and drug discovery expertise for novel therapeutics and has funded Spring,
 Abell and Klenerman (£4M). Other examples of industry funding held in the REF period include:
    •   OMV Group: £1M contribution to the £2M Christian Doppler Laboratory for Sustainable
        Syngas Chemistry led by Reisner.
    •   Shell: £1.2M for SClarke to investigate the properties of ions on surfaces that led to
        external paint failure.
    •   GlaxoSmithKline: £420K for Bender, Colwell and Goodman to develop predictive tools
        for the relationship between chemical structure and adverse side effects.
    •   Astex Therapeutics: £490K for Colwell to develop artificial intelligence technologies for
        fragment-based drug discovery.
    •   Novo Nordisk: £790K for Vendruscolo to develop in-silico screening algorithms for protein
        therapeutics.
    •   Dyson Technology: £810K for Grey to investigate magnesium ion batteries.
    •   Medimmune: £800K for Scherman to develop hydrogels for treatment of glioblastoma.


 Our successful increased focus on philanthropy resulted in these major research donations during
 the REF period:
    •   £18M for research in the Centre for Misfolding Diseases (Elan Pharmaceuticals).
    •   £2.5M to endow the Yusuf Hamied 1702 Chair (Dr Hamied).




                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   £6M to create the Una Finlay Laboratory for research on protein misfolding diseases, the
        Yusuf Hamied Laboratory for Chemical Synthesis & Catalysis, and the Sir Rodney
        Sweetnam Microfabrication Laboratory for microfluidics research.
 The re-endowment of the 1702 Chair by Dr Hamied has allowed us to redeploy the original BP
 endowment to support two Next Generation Fellows in perpetuity and to create a fund to improve
 diversity and inclusion.


 Postgraduate research student funding


 Approximately 65-75 PhD students are admitted to the Department every year, and although funding
 sources vary, they are generally as follows: 30% UKRI; 30% research grants from industry, Royal
 Society, Marie Curie, and ERC; 20% University (e.g. Gates, Harding, Cambridge Trust, Chinese
 Scholarship Council awards administered by Cambridge Trusts, and named philanthropic scholarships
 administered by the Colleges); 10% self-funded; and 10% other sources (e.g. home government).


 Many of our postgraduates are funded by interdisciplinary CDTs and DTPs:
    •   SynTech EPSRC CDT in Automated Chemical Synthesis Enabled by Digital Molecular
        Technologies (Bernardes, Gaunt, Glen, Goodman, Hunter, Lee, Ley, Nitschke,
        Phipps, Reisner, Scherman, Spring, Thom, Vendruscolo, Vignolini)
    •   NanoDTC EPSRC CDT in Nanoscience and Nanotechnology (Vignolini, Scherman,
        Nitschke, Reisner, Knowles, Bronstein, Forse, Grey, Jenkins, SClarke)
    •   Sensor CDT EPSRC CDT in Sensor Technologies for a Healthy and Sustainable Future
        (Jackson, Klenerman, Knowles, Lee, Scherman, Vignolini)
    •   EPSRC CDT in Graphene Technology (Grey, Reisner, Scherman, Vignolini, Wright)
    •   EPSRC CDT in Computational Methods for Materials Science (Thom, Althorpe,
        Reinhardt)
    •   C-CLEAR NERC DTP in Cambridge Climate Life and Earth (Giorio, Schmidt, Vignolini)
    •   AI4ER UKRI CDT in Artificial Intelligence for the Study of Environmental Risks (Archibald,
        RJones, Schmidt)
    •   Connected Electronic and Photonic Systems (Lee)


 Industry-sponsored PhD studentships over the REF period came from Alphasense, AstraZeneca,
 BP, DSTL, Cambridge Display Technology, Elan, Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline, Heptares,
 MedImmune, Mitsubishi, Novartis, Philips Electronics, Procter and Gamble, Schlumberger, Shell,
 Syngenta, and Unilever. In addition, the AstraZeneca Cambridge PhD Programme is a ten-year
 undertaking by AZ to provide funding for a minimum of nine annual four-year PhDs in Chemistry,
 Biochemistry and Pharmacology, worth about £2M to the Department during the REF period.



                                                                                            Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Organisational infrastructure


 Our new Chemistry of Health building and investment in our existing laboratories and facilities will
 ensure that we continue to provide world-class facilities for the foreseeable future. Support for
 infrastructure has come from a diverse range of funders: UKRPIF, the University, the Royal
 Society, charities, industry and private donors.


 The Chemistry of Health building and associated infrastructure was funded by £18M from
 UKRPIF, £18M from Elan Pharmaceuticals, and a £5M private donation. The 2018 opening
 significantly expanded our footprint and freed up lab space for refurbishment in the Department.
 The associated Incubator, which will nurture spin-out companies from inception through early
 growth, maximises opportunities for the Department to interact with the industrial and
 entrepreneurial expertise drawn to the health-related research institutes burgeoning in and around
 Cambridge, and also provides a favourable environment to develop skills in research translation
 and entrepreneurship with the aim to increase research impact.


 Our strategic plans for developing laboratory space continue to align with new academic
 appointments, because offering modern laboratory space as part of an attractive start-up package
 is a major element in drawing international talent to the Department. The University has invested a
 total of £7M in laboratory refurbishment and infrastructure to support new appointments in the
 REF period. The basement was transformed into the Dudley Williams Laboratory for the
 appointment of Hunter, the former Whiffen Laboratory was upgraded for the appointment of
 Gaunt, and an ongoing laboratory refurbishment programme aimed at attracting new ECRs
 currently provides state-of-the-art space for Forse and JZhang. We have also used £6M in
 philanthropic donations to create new laboratories for existing research groups working on
 chemical biology, catalysis, and microfluidics.


 Operational and scholarly infrastructure


 We have a well-organised and enthusiastic technical and administrative staff, who provide a range
 of support services across the Department, ensuring that researchers can focus on research.


 The eight Computer Officers manage computers, services, computer security, website and
 extensive wi-fi infrastructure. The Department is a major beneficiary of the £20M West Cambridge
 Data Centre, which provides an energy-efficient home for the High Performance Computing
 Service (HPCS) and research computer clusters. The Department has nine racks of dedicated
 computer equipment in the HPCS and four racks in a similar facility in the Department of

                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Engineering. The relocation of this equipment has freed up space for research and led to
 considerable savings in power usage.


 Our eight Research Laboratory Technicians and three Senior Technical Officers ensure every
 laboratory is run safely and maintained to a high standard. The nine technicians in our Technical
 Services Centre provide electronics, electromechanical, mechanical, and glass blowing services
 to all researchers. Capabilities include PCB assembly, wiring, repairs, bespoke electronic design,
 PIC programming, manufacture and repair of glassware, grinding, milling, vacuum sealing and
 quartz work, sheet-metal manufacture, 3D printing using Rapid Prototyping, repair of rotary
 vacuum pumps, and Computer Numerical Control milling and turning. Our five Stores Officers
 ensure an efficient flow of equipment and goods. Our three-member Photography and
 Reprographics team print posters, theses, teaching material, and provide many related services.


 Our comprehensive library has computer terminals providing access to extensive online materials,
 and quiet spaces for work. Two Department Librarians ensure smooth access to online chemistry
 databases such as Reaxys, provide training, and implement requests for new materials. We also
 benefit from the University Library, a legal deposit (copyright) library with over two million volumes
 and access to over 21,000 electronic journals, 400 databases and a growing collection of
 electronic books.


 Equipment


 As well as dedicated equipment based in research groups, we have a range of communal facilities
 run by experienced technicians, who also provide training to individual researchers wishing to
 become expert users. These Departmental services ensure that we always have access to the
 latest instrumentation and techniques, promote the efficient use of funds, and encourage
 collaborative research. Each of the core analytical facilities listed below is subject to a continuous
 review and investment programme. In addition to new equipment funded on grants, we invested a
 total of £8.6M in the REF period in upgrading the instrumentation in our Departmental services.


 Microscopy. We have two scanning electron microscopes, and in 2017 we secured a £2M
 EPSRC multi-user facility grant for a transmission electron microscope (TEM) equipped with EDX,
 tomography, EELS, and a cryo-holder. We appointed a new Technical Officer who runs the
 instrument and provides a service for researchers across the University. We also have access to a
 high-resolution Thermo Scientific Titan Krios cryo-TEM funded by a £3M Wellcome Trust grant in
 2016, joint with the Department of Biochemistry.




                                                                                               Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 NMR spectroscopy. We have a comprehensive suite of modern NMR spectrometers (up to 700
 MHz) with capacity for the full range of solid-state and solution-phase experiments and extensive
 automation of routine data acquisition. The instruments are run and maintained by two dedicated
 technicians. We have invested £740K in a rolling programme of upgrades to improve our seven
 solid-state and eleven solution-phase NMR spectrometers. In 2018, we acquired an AVANCE III
 NEO 400MHz spectrometer with a cryoprobe, and completely refurbished our solution phase
 700MHz spectrometer, so that it can now run with both solution phase and solid-state probes. In
 2020, we bought a new £1.7M DNP solid-state spectrometer.


 Mass spectrometry. We have invested £2M to upgrade our mass spectrometry facility, which
 now has ten instruments. The facility is run and maintained by three dedicated technicians, who
 also provide support for the 12 additional mass spectrometers that are located in the laboratories
 of individual research groups.


 X-ray crystallography. We have five single crystal and two powder X-ray diffractometers, along
 with access to powder-diffraction equipment in Earth Sciences and in Physics. Our service is run
 by Bond and a dedicated technician.


 The Melville Laboratory maintains a wide range of polymer and materials characterisation
 equipment including an automated peptide synthesizer, several rheometers, a DLS/zetasizer, a
 bank of five GPCs, two AFMs, contact angle apparatus, DSC, TGA, both analytical and semi-
 preparative HPLCs, and an ESI-MS. The Melville technician oversees the smooth running of this
 equipment.


 The Molecular Production and Characterisation Centre was established in the Chemistry of
 Health building in 2018 and houses an array of modern biological and biophysical facilities
 available to internal and external researchers. It vastly expands and improves the former Centre
 for Biological Chemistry, in addition to freeing up research space previously occupied in the
 Department. The user-membership scheme enables researchers to access fully equipped
 biological laboratories and state-of-the-art equipment including AKTA PURE systems, Octet, UV-
 vis, fluorescence and circular dichroism spectrometers, ITC, microscale thermophoresis, real-time
 PCR and an EVOS 5000 imaging machine. Nidus Laboratories is contributing £1M per year to the
 MPACC facility.


 Outside the Department. Many of our researchers regularly access external facilities. Through
 joint appointments or membership, staff have access to the infrastructure and facilities at the
 Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute (Balasubramanian), the UK Dementia Research
 Institute (Klenerman), the MRC Laboratory for Molecular Biology (Chin), the BP Institute


                                                                                             Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (SClarke), the Cambridge Advanced Imaging Centre (Klenerman, Lee), and the Faraday and
 Henry Royce Institutes in the Maxwell Centre, where Grey has coordinated the building of the first
 UK facility capable of fabricating lithium-containing solid-state batteries, and which includes the
 Royce Ambient Processing Cluster Tool, a custom-built tool that comprises ten glove box modules
 and includes thermal evaporation, sputtering, pulsed laser deposition, chemical vapour deposition
 and atomic layer deposition, and gives access to a wide range of functional materials.


 Research income in kind


 National facilities. We make regular use of the EPSRC UK National Mass Spectrometry Facility
 and the EPSRC UK National Crystallography Service. Grey and Duer use the UK high resolution
 solid-state NMR facility at Warwick (Duer is Co-I on the £2.6M award to provide this service).
 RJones and Pyle use the NERC Facility for Airborne Atmospheric Measurements, and Pyle,
 RJones and Schmidt use the NERC HPC and ARCHER computers. We have been particularly
 successful in gaining access to ISIS (SClarke, Grey, Scherman), where we have had over 60
 days estimated to be worth £2.3M, and time in Diamond Light Source (Bond, SClarke, Elliott,
 Grey, Knowles, Nitschke, Reisner, Sanders) worth £2.3M.


 International facilities. Grey, SClarke, Vignolini and Dobson have used international facilities
 over the REF period, including the ILL (France), ESRF (France), Swiss Light Source, and the
 Advanced Photon Source and Spallation Neutron Source (USA).


 Covid-19 Response


 During the national lockdown, the Department closed to protect staff and students. We were able
 to maintain essential infrastructure (instrumentation, computer connectivity, refrigeration) and
 prevent potential setbacks to research by preserving critical samples, so that the Department was
 well-placed to reopen efficiently in June. A variety of measures were implemented to ensure safe
 working conditions: shiftwork limited lab occupancy to 30% to ensure social distancing, masks
 were required in all communal areas, and those who could work from home did so. Special
 consideration was taken for the circumstances of at-risk minorities to allow flexible working
 arrangements. This approach minimised research downtime to a few months, and from June,
 researchers and students were able to continue their research with conditions as close to normal
 as could be achieved under the government guidelines.




                                                                                              Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 Collaboration with industry


 Our research is integrated with the international chemical and pharmaceutical industries through a
 range of different types of interaction as detailed below, and industry funding is a key element of
 our research income (see Section 3). We have a successful track record of major long-term
 partnerships with multinational companies, which fund academic posts and infrastructure. We are
 engaged in various Cambridge-based organisations that facilitate the formation of academic-
 industry research consortia. There are multiple one-to-one project-specific interactions between
 scientists in industry and Department researchers, and many of our staff are also engaged by
 industry as external consultants. In addition, we maintain close research links with the numerous
 spin-out companies generated by the Department.


 Our successful track record of major long-term industrial partnerships includes BP, Johnson
 Matthey, Shell, Sabic, Unilever and Pfizer. For example, SClarke is a faculty member of the BP
 Institute for Multiphase Flow, which was permanently endowed with £22M from BP and hosts an
 interdisciplinary team of almost 40 academics, postdoctoral researchers and students to focus on
 fluid mechanics and surface science. With our commitment to a zero-carbon future, we are
 transforming our relationship with BP into one of support for sustainable research. For example,
 the BP funding re-deployed from the Yusuf Hamied 1702 Chair now supports a Next Generation
 Fellowship for Forse to develop new materials that can reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We
 have also developed a strategic alliance with AstraZeneca as part of their move to Cambridge.
 AstraZeneca have funded a ten-year PhD studentship programme in order to develop closer
 research interactions, and Gaunt has been appointed to their External Advisory Board for
 Chemistry. In addition, AstraZeneca fund multiple one-to-one collaborations with our researchers
 (Bender, Colwell, Spring, Vendruscolo, Scherman, Jackson, Goodman, Gaunt, Hunter,
 Phipps, Bernardes).


 Over the REF period there have been other numerous industry-funded collaborations in the
 Department that cover all major application areas of chemistry: Apollo Therapeutics (Klenerman),
 Astex Therapeutics (Colwell), Ceylon (Wales), Jaguar Land Rover (Grey), Maxeler Technologies
 (Thom), AB AGri Ltd (Scherman), AXA (Kalberer), Cambridge Display Technology (Scherman),
 Cosma (SClarke), Eli Lilly (Bender), GlaxoSmithKline (Bender, Gaunt, Phipps, Spring), Huawei
 (Grey), Johnson Matthey (Grey), Lhasa (Bender), Lubricants UK (Casford), Medimmune
 (Jackson, Klenerman, Scherman, Vendruscolo), Mitsubishi (SClarke), Murata (Grey), Novo
 Nordisk (Vendruscolo), Otsuka Pharmaceuticals (Gaunt), Philips Electronics (Spring), Procter &


                                                                                             Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Gamble (Wright), Schlumberger (Grey), Shell (SClarke, Grey), Syngenta (Abell, Phipps), Talga
 (Grey), and Unilever (Bender, Casford, Goodman, Hunter). To support our new SynTech CDT,
 we have established industrial partnerships with a range of global and SME pharmaceutical and
 data-science companies, which each make an annual contribution of £40K-200K (AstraZeneca,
 Astex, Elsevier, BASF, Heptares, Arcinova, Cambridge Display Technology, Computational
 Modelling Cambridge, Sentinel, Vertex).


 Our entrepreneurial culture encourages the translation of research into practical applications, and
 eleven spin-out companies were founded by Department members during the REF period
 (highlights in Section 1). The founders often continue productive relationships with their spin-outs
 as consultants or as members of Scientific Advisory Boards. The first company to occupy our
 Chemistry of Health Incubator is Wren Therapeutics, and with the success of this interaction, we
 envisage using this facility to foster new relationships with industry in the future.


 Collaborative networks and partnerships


 The value, breadth and reach of our research is enhanced through collaborative ventures, which
 can accelerate results, broaden funding streams and widen access to facilities. In addition to the
 numerous individual external collaborations that all of our research groups are engaged in, there
 are more formal arrangements through secondments, virtual networks, or as part of multi-
 institution consortia.


 Secondments:
 •   Archibald has a secondment to the Met Office to develop a strategy for air quality science.
 •   Colwell has a secondment at Google to work with their experts on machine learning.
 •   Bender has a secondment at AstraZeneca to head the Computational Toxicology group.


 Cambridge-based networks for interdisciplinary collaboration between academia, industry and the
 wider policy and service community:
 •   The Cambridge Centre for Climate Science brings together research groups from Chemistry,
     Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics, Archaeology, Earth Sciences, Geography,
     Plant Sciences, the Scott Polar Research Institute and the British Antarctic Survey (Abraham,
     Archibald, Griffiths, Pyle, Giorio, Schmidt).
 •   The Lennard-Jones Centre connects groups from Chemistry, Physics, Materials Science,
     Engineering and Chemical Engineering who have an active interest in materials modelling
     (Alavi, Althorpe, Bender, Colwell, Glen, Goodman, Jenkins, Thom, Vendruscolo, Wales).




                                                                                             Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   The Cambridge Circular Plastics Centre includes Chemistry, Zoology, Engineering, Physics,
     Biochemistry, Materials Science and Metallurgy, Chemical Engineering and Biotechnology,
     and the Judge Business School, and engages a wide academic, industry, service provider and
     policy community (led by Reisner).
 •   The Innovation Centre in Digital Molecular Technology will be located in the Department and
     will bring together industry with the Departments of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering and
     Biotechnology to develop new molecular synthesis technology platforms.
 •   The Cambridge Academy of Therapeutic Sciences (CATS) works with industry to tackle
     research and policy challenges to improve delivery of therapeutic medicines. CATS is home to
     the Cambridge Alliance on Medicines Safety, an industry partnership for sharing research on
     toxicology, which led to an on-going collaboration between Bender, Colwell, Goodman with
     GlaxoSmithKline and AstraZeneca to predict the safety of current and future medicines.
 •   The Milner Therapeutics Institute facilitates collaborations with the pharmaceutical industry
     through its therapeutics consortium, which led to Colwell’s collaboration with Astex on the use
     of artificial intelligence in fragment-based drug discovery.


 See also our membership in the University’s Strategic Research Initiatives and Networks and
 Interdisciplinary Research Centres described in Section 1.


 Major research clusters:
 •   Grey is director of the Centre of Advanced Materials for Integrated Energy Systems, a
     partnership of four universities, which focuses on the development of advanced materials for
     energy conversion and energy storage.
 •   Grey leads the Faraday Institution’s project to examine how environmental and internal battery
     stresses damage batteries over time, a collaboration between ten universities and ten industry
     partners.
 •   Klenerman is a Foundation Professor of the UK Dementia Research Institute, a collaboration
     across six universities funded by MRC, the Alzheimer’s Society and Alzheimer’s Research UK.
 •   Scherman leads the Interdisciplinary Research Collaboration on Hard-to-Treat Cancers, a
     collaboration between five universities, clinicians and industry.
 •   Grey and Nitschke are part of a Synergy group involving three universities, which will
     investigate the science and technology of graphene and hybrid nanomaterials.
 •   Abraham, Archibald, Griffiths and Pyle are members of the National Centre for Atmospheric
     Science, a NERC collaborative research centre with over 200 members of staff in 12 UK
     research institutes and universities.
 •   Archibald is science director of the UK Chemistry & Aerosol NCAS-Met Office programme, a
     collaboration between the Hadley Centre and three universities to develop a new atmospheric



                                                                                              Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     chemistry-aerosol global model, which will form part of the UK’s flagship contribution to the
     next IPCC report.
 •   RJones is part of Breathe London, a multi-partner project involving King’s College London,
     Cambridge Environmental Research Consultants, National Physical Laboratory, Google,
     Mayor of London, C40 Cities, the Children’s Investment Fund Foundation and Clean Air Fund,
     which has a network of 100 air pollution sensors across London.
 •   Reisner directs the EPSRC-supported UK Solar Fuels Network (SFN), which coordinates
     national research activities in artificial photosynthesis.
 •   Ley led the EU Future and Emerging Technologies One Flow programme aimed at green
     process design, involving eight institutions in five countries.


 Outreach


 Engaging with diverse communities is fundamental to the sustainability of the discipline. We
 promote chemistry to the general public through open events held in the Department, external
 visits to schools, and national exhibitions. Staff and students at all career stages are encouraged
 to participate in Department and University programmes aimed at developing skills in public
 engagement. For example, the University Rising Stars public engagement course is part of
 transferable skills training for research students and ECRs.


 Postgrads, postdocs and academics all volunteer to create projects for our annual Chemistry
 Open Day, held as part of the Cambridge Science Festival and funded by a £400K endowment
 from the Walters-Kundert Charitable Trust. The day gives local, national and international visitors
 an opportunity to learn about science in an engaging way, and the number of children who attend
 has grown from 744 in 2014 to 1369 in 2019. We host the annual Salters’ Institute Festival of
 Chemistry, providing teams of school children from years 7, 8 and 9 with hands-on practical
 experience. For older students, our popular Cambridge Chemistry Challenge offers online
 resources for students and teachers worldwide. Informally, many of our staff, postgrads and
 postdocs visit local schools to talk about chemistry and provide hands-on science demonstrations.
 For example, in the REF period 17 postgrad ambassadors have taken a Fourier Transform
 infrared spectrometer to local sixth forms as part of the RSC Spectroscopy in a Suitcase
 programme. We have also developed our own exhibitions for the general public: the Vignolini
 group presented an exhibition on the Chemistry of Colour at the National Science Museum
 (estimated footfall 4000); our Centre for Atmospheric Science demonstrated the interior of an
 atmospheric research aircraft at the 2014 Royal Society Summer Exhibition; and the Scherman
 group demonstrated how chemistry will facilitate new timber-based construction methods at the
 2019 exhibition (estimated footfall 15,000).



                                                                                             Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 For over ten years, Wothers has set challenging papers for Year 13 students as part of the
 Chemistry Olympiad programme. He is heavily involved in promoting chemistry to young students
 and members of the public and has fronted our Cambridge Science Festival lectures at the
 Department and for local schools. His contributions were recognised by an MBE for services to
 Chemistry in 2014.


 Our outreach activities also have an international dimension. In 2019, one of our graduate
 students organised a Cambridge-Nigeria Outreach Programme involving three Nigerian
 universities, and won a Vice-Chancellor’s Social Impact Award for his Africa of our Dream
 Initiative, which aims to provide access to quality education and medical care in sub-Saharan
 Africa. The University’s Public Engagement Starter Fund provided support for a postdoc from the
 Department to partner with Biomakespace and TeamDeploy to engage young people in India with
 science. A PhD student from the Department runs the non-profit Simuka-Arise Initiative in
 Zimbabwe to enable the economic, social and academic empowerment of young women, and co-
 organised a Black Legacies in STEM exhibition for Black History month in 2020. Another PhD
 student from the Department set up a mentoring scheme called CariScholar in 2016 to help
 aspiring scholars from the Caribbean reach their potential.


 We run a diverse seminar programme that is advertised to the public and attracts globally
 renowned speakers. This programme ensures that our researchers are exposed to the latest
 developments across the discipline and showcases our research to leading scientists from across
 the world. Nobel prize winners who presented lectures in the Department during the REF period
 include Frances Arnold, Greg Winter, Richard Henderson, Tom Cech, Bob Grubbs and Ada
 Yonath. We make it a point to invite women scientists as role models for younger researchers: for
 example, Luisa De Cola, Charlotte Williams, Sally Price, Anne Bertolotti, Kimberly Bonger,
 Magdalena Titirici, Carmen Nussbaum-Krammer, Filippa Lo Cascio, Anna Krylov, Nadine Nassif,
 and Louise Serpell all lectured in the Department in 2019.


 Leadership in the academic community


 The Department hosts a number of researchers who are international leaders in their field, and
 who have been recognised with major awards and honours. We also make important contributions
 to the health of the discipline through a variety of community service and leadership roles.


 During the REF period, honours were awarded to Balasubramanian (knighthood for services to
 science and medicine), Dobson (knighthood for research into Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s),
 Klenerman (knighthood for his contribution to the development of high-speed DNA sequencing
 technology), Pyle (CBE for services to atmospheric chemistry and environmental science) and

                                                                                             Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sanders (CBE for services to scientific research). An alumnus of the Department, Sir Gregory
 Winter, was awarded the Nobel prize in Chemistry. We have 11 Fellows and one foreign member
 of the Royal Society, of whom Alavi, JClarke, Wales, and Abell were all elected during the REF
 period; four Fellows of the Academy of Medical Sciences of whom Chin and Klenerman were
 elected during the REF period; two foreign members of the American Academy of Arts & Sciences
 (Grey, Frenkel); a foreign associate of the US National Academy of Sciences (Frenkel); and an
 honorary member of the Royal Irish Academy (Hunter).


 The international standing of staff from the Department is evidenced by the numerous awards
 received for scientific achievement within the REF period. We highlight the following:
 •   two Royal Society Royal Medals (Balasubramanian, Klenerman)
 •   two Royal Society Davy Medals (Pyle, Grey)
 •   RSC Tilden Prize (Wales)
 •   three RSC Corday-Morgan Prizes (Knowles, Scherman, Reisner)
 •   two RSC Harrison-Meldola Memorial Prizes (Bernardes, Phipps)
 •   two Raymond and Beverly Sackler International Prizes (Chin, Knowles)
 •   two RSC John B Goodenough awards (Grey, Elliott)
 •   American Chemical Society Arthur C Cope Award (Ley)
 •   American Chemical Society Arthur C Cope Scholar Award (Gaunt)


 All members of the Department contribute to the wider academic community through refereeing of
 publications and research grants, acting as members of grant awarding panels (EPSRC, BBSRC,
 Wellcome, Royal Society, ERC and Marie Curie), editing journals, and organising and speaking at
 international conferences. In addition, several staff from the Department play important leadership
 roles in national and international organisations including:
 •   Abell: Scientific Advisory Board Astex, Aqdot and Sphere Fluidics.
 •   Balasubramanian: Scientific Advisory Board Cambridge Epigenetix, Illumina, Max Planck
     Institute for Molecular Physiology, Science Advisor Haren Innovation Capital.
 •   Pyle: International co-Chair of the Scientific Assessment Panel that advises Parties to the
     Montreal Protocol, Chief Scientist of the National Centre for Atmospheric Science, NERC
     Council.
 •   Sanders: Chair of the Athena Forum, the national body advocating for greater diversity in
     STEMM on behalf of all the UK science learned societies.
 •   SClarke: ISIS Science Advisory Committee and the European Spallation Source sample
     environment panel.
 •   Grey: Samsung advisory group, expert panel of the Faraday Institution.




                                                                                            Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Hunter: Deputy Chair REF2021 chemistry panel, REF2014 chemistry panel, Associate Editor
     Chemical Science, Series Editor Topics in Current Chemistry.
 •   Spring: Review Panel Diamond 104-1 beamline.
 •   Gaunt: AstraZeneca Chemistry External Advisory Panel, Associate Editor Chemical Science,
     Advisory Board of Netherlands Advanced Research Center Building Blocks Consortium.
 •   Reisner: Editorial Board Angewandte Chemie, Scientific Advisory Board Max Planck Institute
     of Colloids and Interfaces.
 •   Scherman: Scientific Advisory Board member SABIC, Editorial Board ChemComm and
     Chemical and Biological Technologies in Agriculture.




                                                                                       Page 33
