Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Sheffield


 Unit of Assessment: B-09 Physics


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


1.1 Overview

Our collective mission is to carry out world-class research at the forefront of knowledge in the
discipline, from the fundamental building blocks of matter to supernovae and massive stars, across
photonic nanostructures to the physics of living systems.

We aim to build strong partnerships at the interface between physics and other disciplines, locally,
nationally, and internationally, leading to new understanding of the universe and translation to help
address societal challenges and goals from sustainable energy to next-generation computing.

Our strategy has been to assemble a critical mass of excellent researchers, capable of working
across boundaries, forming international collaborations, and creating real-world impact.

Our aim in this assessment period has been to build upon existing strengths in condensed matter
physics, particle physics and astrophysics. Highlights include:

   •   A total research income in excess of £47M, with a 54% growth between 2013/14 and
       2019/20, with an income of £223k/FTE in 2019/20.

   •   Contributions to significant international, national, and local interdisciplinary partnerships
       including the EPSRC Hub in Quantum Communications, the £3.4M GOTO observatory, the
       £1.6M Wellcome Trust support for physics at the interface with biology and the £10M
       STFC-funded WATCHMAN project.

   •   A 25% increase in PhD enrolment.

   •   The appointment of Tovey, Costanzo, Vickey and Malek to significant international
       leadership roles in particle physics.

   •   Major awards recognising colleagues for their contribution to science (Skolnick), the
       scientific community (Hobbs), and, through their impact activities, for innovation and for
       international trade (Buckley and Lidzey).

   •   Significant and continued investment in impactful research most notably from National Grid
       and Big Solar.

Our research is structured around four research groups, each supported by substantial grant
income, providing a dynamic and supportive environment for our growing base of early career
researchers (ECRs). The groups are underpinned by our investment in supporting infrastructure
through access to international facilities, and our commitment to embracing diversity.

Our investment in people and our successful capture of research income have provided the unit
with an excellent foundation for sustainable growth and further improving our impact activities,
whilst continuing to enable high-quality outputs.




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.2 Unit structure, research strategy and progress towards REF2014 objectives

Our research spans the range of modern physics and astronomy from neutrinos and the Higgs
Boson through to active galaxies, via photonic nanostructures, 2D-materials, hybrid
organic/inorganic semiconductors, photovoltaics, and the physics of bacteria. We carried out a
strategic review of our research in 2017 allowing us to build on clear synergies between areas, and
subsequently structure our work in four groups: ‘Inorganic Semiconductors’, ‘Materials and
Biological Physics’, ‘Particle Physics and Particle Astrophysics’, and ‘Astronomy and Astrophysics’
(see Figure 1).

                              Particle Physics and Particle Astrophysics
                              Anastopoulos, Booth, Cartwright, Costanzo, Daw, Dawson,
                             Kudryavtsev, Lohwasser, Malek, Spooner, Thompson, Tovey,
                                                       Vickey


                                        Inorganic Semiconductors
                             Chekhovich, Fox, Kok, Krizhanovskii, Skolnick, Tartakovskii,
                                                Whittaker, Wilson



                                    Materials and Biological Physics
                                       Buckley, Cadby, Clark, Hobbs, Lidzey



                                      Astronomy and Astrophysics
                               Crowther, Dhillon, Goodwin, Littlefair, Maund, Mullaney,
                                            Parker, Parsons, Tadhunter

                                       Figure 1. Group membership
1.2.1 Unit structure

Specific achievements in this assessment period and aims for the next five years are described
below for each research group:

Inorganic Semiconductors (IS): This group, comprising seven professors and one research
fellow, is active in both experimental and theoretical research into nanophotonic semiconductor
systems, 2D materials and quantum information theory. Our leading facilities in semiconductor
physics have been supported by £3.5M of University and EPSRC investment in equipment and
laboratory space. In January 2020 we opened the University’s new Quantum Centre, consolidating
research in this area. The group has benefited from awards in excess of £20M over the
assessment period, including two EPSRC Programme Grants. These investments have been key
in enabling notable discoveries including very high coherence on-chip single photons (Fox, Nature
Nanotechnology 2018) which has led to the formation of a spinout company, elucidation of the
nature of exciton states in moiré superlattices of 2D materials (Tartakovskii, Nature 2019), and
discovery of a system that opens the way to a high-speed, low-power, integrated platform based
on strong interactions between photons (Krizhanovskii, Nature Communications 2017).

Over the next five years the group will build on recent achievements in quantum science and
technology in both III-V systems and in atomically thin 2D materials. Particular areas of focus will
include on-chip entanglement of arrays of quantum dot spins, creation of new lattice potentials in
2D heterostructures enabling new many-body phenomena, Rydberg exciton polaritons as highly


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
non-linear mesoscopic systems, and topological photonics as a new route to on-chip chirality and
single-photon non-linearities.

Materials and Biological Physics (MBP): This group, comprising three professors, one senior
lecturer, and one research fellow, uses experimental approaches to investigate the physics and
technological applications of solution-processable semiconductors, living systems, polymers,
photonics and imaging instrumentation. The group is highly interdisciplinary and works closely with
chemists, biologists, medics, biochemists and electronic engineers. The University, supported by
UKRI and charitable funding, has invested substantially (£14.5M) in multiple cross-department and
cross-faculty facilities and initiatives co-led from the group. These investments have been
rewarded by a range of high-quality outputs, including new insights into the photophysical
properties of entangled triplet-pairs in organic semiconductors (Clark, Nature Comms, 2017) and
new atomic force microscopy approaches revealing the molecular architecture of the bacterial cell
wall, (Hobbs, Nature, 2020).

Looking forward we will build on recent investments to grow our activities in biological physics,
expanding existing strong cross-disciplinary interactions with Biological Sciences and Medicine,
particularly in bacterial biophysics and cancer and utilise the unique capabilities available through
new developments in atomic force and optical microscopies. We will also further develop our
activities in energy materials, drawing on recent successes in collaboration with Chemistry and
expand interactions with energy providers such as National Grid.

Particle Physics and Particle Astrophysics (PPPA): The group, comprising six professors, four
senior lecturers, and two research fellows, focuses on four core STFC areas: particle physics
(ATLAS), long-baseline neutrino physics (DUNE), dark matter searches including LZ and
gravitational waves. The appointment of Vickey and Lohwasser has greatly enhanced the strength
and depth of our ATLAS activity. The appointment of Malek has strengthened our neutrino physics
activity and allowed us to lead the UK part of a major translation drive developing approaches for
monitoring nuclear proliferation through WATCHMAN (£2M awarded to Sheffield since 2018).
Members of the group have contributed to notable breakthroughs, including ionization cooling in
muon beams, a critical step towards achieving the muon-beam quality required to search for
phenomena at energy scales beyond the reach of the LHC (Booth, Nature, 2020), and the
detection of merging compact objects with LIGO and VIRGO collaborations (Daw, PRL 2016).

Over the next five years, following a strong influx of new talent through recent years, we are well-
positioned to capitalise on upcoming discovery phases in our major collaborations. We will also
further engage with next-generation projects such as Hyper-Kamiokande and DUNE, and are
expanding our dark matter interests with the strategic addition of axion searches.

Astronomy and Astrophysics (AA): This group, comprising four professors, three senior
lecturers and two research fellows, focuses on the building blocks of galaxy evolution, and high
time-resolution astrophysics, underpinned by theoretical work on simulations of star formation and
star cluster evolution. The recruitment of Maund strengthens our astrophysical transients activities,
and adds synergy with Crowther on massive star and core-collapse supernovae research; Parker
strengthens our theoretical capability in star and planet formation, complementing Goodwin;
Parsons enhances high time-resolution activities of Dhillon and Littlefair. Our support for these
ECRs has been rewarded by several notable outputs, including the discovery of a pulsating white
dwarf in an eclipsing binary system, enabling empirical constraints on the core composition of low-
mass stellar remnants (Parsons, Nature Astronomy, 2020) and the detection of a tidal disruption
event associated with a Kerr black hole (Maund, Nature Astronomy, 2016).



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
A major focus of the group going forward will be scientifically exploiting its unrivalled access to
world-leading facilities for high time-resolution astrophysics through guaranteed time on the
Sheffield-led HiPERCAM (GTC, La Palma), ULTRACAM (ESO-NTT, Chile) and ULTRASPEC
(TNT, Thailand) instruments, and also the detection and follow-up of variable sources discovered
through its core involvement in the GOTO (£3.4M STFC 2020 investment) transient-hunting
telescopes. Through recent appointments, the group is also well positioned to exploit the new
generation of major telescope facilities.

1.2.2 Research strategy

Our overarching research strategy, consistent with our stated aims in REF2014, has been to build
upon existing strengths, enhance cross-disciplinary research activities and expand our
engagement with knowledge transfer and impact.

Our appointments since 2014 have cemented existing areas of excellence (e.g. Lohwasser,
ATLAS), and established connections between areas of strength (e.g. Maund, astrophysical
transients with evolution of massive stars). Our core research portfolio is underpinned by a healthy
balance between EPSRC and STFC funding, but we have worked to broaden our range of funders,
diversifying our income streams and adding to our resilience. Examples include the European
Research Council, The Wellcome Trust, BBSRC, Cancer Research UK, the Royal Society as well
as UKRI SPF.

Many of the techniques developed in the Department are widely used across science, medicine,
engineering and more broadly, providing the opportunity both for translational applications and for
developing new approaches to tackling unresolved questions in science, medicine and
engineering. We aim to exploit these opportunities, where we already have existing
interdisciplinary activity (through Imagine:Imaging Life) and where there are clear opportunities
through a large number of currently isolated activities (machine learning/big data), growing new
cross-cutting themes across the Department and more widely.

1.3 Approach to supporting interdisciplinary research

Since 2014 we have enhanced our interdisciplinary research activities, utilising a strong
University commitment to underpinning infrastructure, and competitively obtained external funding
in world-class instrumentation on campus to provide a unifying focus. We play a central role in a
variety of interdisciplinary projects, linking with Biological Sciences, Chemistry and Electronic and
Electrical Engineering.

New ventures established over the assessment period include the following:

   •   The Sheffield Quantum Centre joint with Electronic & Electrical Engineering and Computer
       Science. The Centre, which supports the activities of 70 academics across these three
       departments, including our inorganic semiconductor group, focuses on semiconductor
       nanotechnology covering both III-V semiconductors and atomically thin 2D materials.

   •   The Imagine:Imaging Life Initiative joint with Biological Sciences (£10M), co-lead by Cadby
       and Hobbs with Foster and Bullough (Biological Sciences), which included the
       establishment of the Biophysical Imaging Centre (£1.8M) in the Department and the
       formation of a cohort of cross-department and cross-faculty (Science, Medicine, Dentistry
       and Health) students focused on the development and use of imaging to understand living
       systems.



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   The Lord Porter Laser Laboratory, joint with Chemistry, for which Clark is one the three
       academic leads, has received investments of ~£2M, and houses many advanced laser
       methods, allowing the study of light-induced reactions from tens of femtoseconds to
       milliseconds.

University investment in state-of-the-art laboratory infrastructure enables the full performance of
equipment, while University investment in cross-department and cross-faculty PhD studentships
(e.g. six between Physics and Biological Sciences/Medicine associated with Imagine) provide
research and training opportunities. Support for interdisciplinary research has helped diversify our
research income streams (see above), for example through joint funding of a studentship with
Medicine that underpinned a CRUK/EPSRC Multidisciplinary Project Award. The strong
departmental research theme in solar energy has also been supported through the University’s
Grantham Centre for Sustainable Futures (e.g. PhD studentship with Buckley).

Our strategy for interdisciplinary activities over the next five years is to further support the
inherently interdisciplinary subject themed research (such as biological physics, energy materials,
quantum technologies) while also growing and developing our activities in technique oriented
interdisciplinary research (e.g. in imaging, data science/machine learning).

1.4 Impact strategy, support mechanisms and outcomes

In line with our REF2014 objectives, we have further enhanced our engagement with knowledge
transfer and impact activities. We have used a range of mechanisms to grow this activity, including
University Knowledge Exchange (KE) Funds, provision of dedicated laboratory space, staff
sabbaticals, allowance for impact-related activities in our Workload Allocation Model (WAM), and
support for collaborative grant writing. Although our current case studies come from the MBP
group, our pipeline (see below) includes strong potential across all our groups.

Provision of staff time to grow impact activities is critical for their fruition. For example, two
sabbaticals for Lidzey (one funded by the EPSRC SuperSolar Hub) enabled him to work on
translating concepts developed in his research group into further product development at Ossila (a
spinout in materials science of which he is a Director, Growth of Ossila case study). These
products have contributed to the further growth of the business, which is receiving recognition for
its strong export record (IoP Queen’s Award for Enterprise, 2018). Provision of financial support
through the University KE funds has helped Hobbs to further support the activities of Infinitesima
Ltd. in their development of tools for the inspection and quality control of silicon devices for next-
generation computing, building on the research that underpins the Direct Height Infinitesima case
study. In the previous REF period we made an appointment with an industrial background, with the
aim of seeding new and impactful activities in the Department. This has borne fruit in two of our
case studies, with Buckley being a co-founder of Ossila and also the lead on our Solar Photovoltaic
case study. Buckley’s work on solar energy has been supported through University KE funds, and
critically he has benefited from extensive mentoring in impact activities, leading to him taking a role
on the University’s KE committee as part of HEIF governance, and helping him to create the focus
required to carry this work through to fruition.

We have utilised significant investment from University KE funds, totalling nearly £3M in over 80
projects aimed at facilitating the transfer of fundamental science breakthroughs to economic
impact. This strategy of supporting colleagues with funds enabling a range of activities from proof
of concept through to collaborations with industry has provided us with an excellent foundation for
future impact.



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




         Figure 2: Impact pipeline, showing mechanisms to encourage and support impact

We will ensure that our impact pipeline is continually refreshed, identifying the most promising
internal investment opportunities, such as the University’s Impact Acceleration Account. Recent
PPPA group appointments permit an increase to our STFC-commended industrial engagement
and impact work. The appointment of an Ogden Outreach Officer has allowed us to build a hub for
outreach opportunities beyond our local community, enabling us to develop activities with greater
reach.

1.5 Open research

Open science approaches to research have a long history in physics, are deeply embedded in the
culture of most of our research areas and have seen strong growth into the areas where they have
been less prevalent. To ensure maximum discoverability of our research, we aim to put all outputs
in White Rose Research Online, our shared repository with Leeds and York (green route). The
1,657 outputs deposited over this assessment period were downloaded 51,000 times. This is our
preferred route, ensuring equity in publishing opportunities regardless of available funding; we also
publish outputs in fully OA journals, or hybrid where required for funder compliance. 95% of staff
have put some of their work on preprint servers such as arXiv (or bioRxiv where more appropriate),
while two thirds always put submitted work onto arXiv, providing a rapid and open route for
research dissemination, accessible to all.

All high energy particle physics data is stored in the STFC-funded Durham HEP data repository,
our AA group makes extensive use of publicly accessible data repositories, and in our condensed
matter research areas metadata is published as extensive supporting information files associated
with publications and shared through the University’s data repository (ORDA, hosted by figshare).
Our staff have contributed significantly to the growth of open data. For example, Dhillon is
responsible for the 20 TB ULTRACAM/HiPERCAM data archive, containing nearly 20-years of
high-speed optical images of the night sky. By far the most extensive such database in the world,
the data are available for use by anyone in the astronomical community following the one-year
proprietary period. Costanzo, while ATLAS Computing Co-ordinator (2017-2019) oversaw the

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
release of tabular data from the ATLAS experiment in CERN for use in educational activities, the
start of a shift towards more openly accessible data.

Often the code that is used to mine and manipulate experimental data is a critical aspect of both
open access and ensuring the integrity of the analysis. Over two-thirds of staff make the code they
develop and use OA or ensure that the analysis can similarly be performed with OA code. Littlefair
is a core team member of the open-source Astropy project, providing library packages for
astronomical software in Python, which is used around the world, including at NASA, LIGO and
IBM (for space-junk collision avoidance). In recognition of the importance of this work, the Astropy
team was awarded the Group Achievement Award by the Royal Astronomical Society (2020).

Over the next five years, we anticipate open data playing a critical role in the Department, while
recognising that such decisions are beyond the reach of researchers involved in large
collaborations. Costanzo has now taken on a leadership role within the Faculty as IT Champion,
helping to spread best practice developed in physics and ensuring that the resources are available
and appropriate for our data.

1.6 Research integrity

The University’s Good Research and Innovation Practices (GRIP) policy governs research in the
department, with adherence being overseen by the research committee and, at a local level, by
Group Heads and individual PIs.

Training in all aspects relating to research integrity starts at PGR level, with all our students
undertaking three mandatory research professionalism and integrity training modules, inducting
students in the principles of open research and research integrity. They review recent case studies
of professional malpractice and hear from senior academics, providing guidance on the different
aspects of the difficult decisions involved. The procedure of whistleblowing is outlined, and the
modules emphasise the importance of honesty and creating an environment where, if a mistake is
made, researchers can come forward without fear of reprisal.

Clear expectations are set for research staff through the induction process, with support given by
line managers and through the assignment of independent mentors. This is supported by online
resources covering our expectations and support for research integrity, best practice and
professional conduct. Our annual EDI away day provides a forum where all staff come together to
share best practice and receive additional training on aspects such as unconscious bias which can
unknowingly distort research integrity.

Following high profile international/UK bullying and harassment cases elsewhere in physics, we
have developed a new Code of Conduct for staff and students, which was co-created by
ECRs/students, and has involved consultation with academic staff/PGR students and our UG
student representatives. This has been widely publicised and is re-visited at staff meetings to
ensure it is deeply embedded into our departmental culture.


 2. People


We pride ourselves on our collegiate community, with a research environment that aims to
stimulate, support and nurture all our researchers. We uphold the principles and implement the
responsibilities of the 2019 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. As a
signatory (2019) to the Civic University Agreement, our strategic priorities align closely to those of
the City of Sheffield and the local region.

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.1 Staffing and recruitment policy

New appointments over this assessment period have followed our research strategy of building
upon excellence where we have an internationally recognized reputation. Specifically, we have
strengthened our activities in ATLAS physics (Vickey 2015, Lohwasser 2017), neutrino physics
(Malek 2015) and astrophysics (Maund 2014, Parker 2017, Parsons 2019), while an appointment
to MBP (2016) left to return to CNRS, Paris (2017).

Following the success of our recruitment of independent research fellows (IRFs) in REF20214
                                               (Anastopoulos, Chekhovich, Clark, Mullaney) we
                                               have continued to focus on attracting IRFs as future
                                               leaders to our research groups (Lohwasser, Maund,
                                               Parker, Parsons). We provide a fully-funded PhD
                                               studentship for each IRF to help develop their
                                               independent research programme. Also, since 2018,
                                               we have guaranteed progression to an open-ended
                                               contract for all IRFs with fellowships longer than
                                               three-years to ensure the stability they require to
                                               reach their full potential. Figure 3 summarises our
                                               IRF support strategy.

                                              The result is an energetic cohort of outward-facing
 Figure 3: Independent research fellow        future leaders whose influence across the
 support strategy                             Department, wider University and scientific
                                              community is already evident. For example, Clark
has developed strong links with biosciences on the photophysics of protein-organic semiconductor
complexes (JACS, 2020), while Anastopoulos is now at the forefront in the search at the ATLAS
experiment for new physics beyond the Higgs Boson, as well as having played a critical role in the
consolidation of that discovery (e.g. PRL, 2015).

Following our independent review of our research we have introduced a system of regular refresh
of group heads, enabled by a spread of senior staff across all research groups. This allows us to
plan for the future based on maximising the development of our research strength, without having
to immediately place large administrative loads on new staff.

2.2 Staff development, and support for ECRs

New staff receive a tailored induction and are mentored by a senior member of their research
group as well as having access to additional independent mentoring from a senior colleague in
another group. For new T&R staff a tapered approach is taken to introducing non-research load,
with 60% in year one, 80% in year two, 100% in year three, providing time to develop a firm
foundation for their research career. We provide a fully-funded PhD studentship on arrival and
tailored financial support to set up their research activity. Our three-year probationary process is
supportive, with regular mentor meetings to provide guidance and support. All our probationary
staff have subsequently been highly successful. For example Malek (recruited 2015) is the UK
academic lead for WATCHMAN, having been promoted to senior lecturer.

All staff receive formal support through an annual appraisal known as the Staff Review and
Development Scheme (SRDS) with their line manager. This is an opportunity to reflect on work
from the previous year and consider their career aspirations. Additionally, a mid-year review for all
non-professorial staff with the Head of Department ensures that issues are dealt with rapidly. Time
is set aside in the annual review to discuss training and career development needs. Where

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
appropriate, our mid-career and professorial level staff are put forward for the Sheffield Leader
staff training programme, jointly run by HR and Research Services, which provides training in all
aspects of leadership, including research.

We are committed to supporting and developing our ECRs. Development needs are considered
during annual appraisal discussions, or at mid-year reviews, with dedicated departmental sessions
offered to provide specific training (e.g. grant preparation, academic writing). Bespoke workshops
highlighting fellowship opportunities regularly take place in the Department, with mentoring and
peer review of applications for those deciding to follow this route. Think Ahead, a specific ECR staff
development programme coordinated by our professional services team, highlights employment
opportunities and a professional and career development programme, involving training workshops
and career mentoring. Opportunities include ECRs acting as primary supervisors to funded
summer student projects through the Sheffield University Research Experience scheme, supported
by a senior academic. Our TRAM (The Researcher As Manager) programme is aimed at
developing the skills needed to successfully manage a research team.

Other mechanisms within the Department run by ECRs for their benefit also contribute to their
development, such as regular coding sessions and informal research talks. ECRs are encouraged
to engage in wider activities, for example, the leadership of postdoctoral workers from the IS Group
was instrumental in developing and running public engagement activities including stands at the
Royal Society Summer Exhibition (2015) and the Cheltenham Science Festival (2017).

ECRs are vital to our research health, and in recognition of this during the present assessment
period we have appointed a fellow as a full member of the departmental executive committee,
providing critical feedback on the short-term impacts of decision making, for example playing a vital
role in our successful return to on-site working following the COVID-19 lockdown. A PDRA also
has an ex officio role on the departmental research committee, in addition to two early career
academic staff, ensuring our research strategy has input at all levels.

2.3 Support and reward for research and impact

Our appraisal process is integral to preparing staff for promotion, working with a designated
mentor. Staff are able to build a portfolio of achievements that align with organisational and
personal goals, enabling them to maximise opportunities for reward and recognition, including
promotion following the Academic Career Pathway (ACP) Framework. ACP aims to clearly define
expectations, importantly providing a clear route to recognising impact related activities. In
line with the principles of DORA, journal impact factors are not used in considering promotion
cases.

Our promotions panel includes research group heads, our Director for Learning & Teaching, our
EDI lead and has been expanded to include the EDI lead from a cognate department within the
Faculty for external input. In this assessment period, three academic staff have been promoted
twice and eight have been promoted to personal chairs, spanning all four of our research groups.
Promotion is available to staff at all levels regardless of the nature of their contracts, including
promotion across grade boundaries (e.g. Dawson was promoted as a PDRA, and has since
secured a Senior Research Fellow position at QMUL).

We operate a fully transparent WAM, in which recognition is given for external research funding,
PGR/PDRA supervision, major grant preparation plus a 20% allowance for scholarship for all
academics. Impact-related activities receive additional recognition in the model once at a level to
be part of the pathway on the ACP. Following our REF2014 aims, we have appointed six teaching
specialists, enabling us to continue to deliver a high-quality undergraduate experience whilst

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
ensuring that academics with both research and teaching responsibilities are able to develop
world-leading research programmes.

Individuals who step down from major administrative responsibilities are entitled to a period of
study leave. Flexibility is given to permit research secondments, such as senior ATLAS
management roles, and short-term sabbaticals, including Maund’s three-month Royal Society
policy secondment in the UK Department for International Development in 2019. Sabbaticals are
made available to support impactful collaborations with industry (section 1.4), for example for
Cadby to locate with Andor (Belfast) for six-months (2014) to work on new camera developments
for super-resolution microscopy, and for Daw to explore the application of his wave detection
algorithm for motor controllers and medical applications (with Creavo Medical Technologies, 2018).
Impact-specific mentoring (e.g. for Buckley from Jones, supporting our Solar Photovoltaic case
study, Sich from Skolnick) has helped staff balance and prioritise different aspects of their roles.

2.4 Research students

We have a vibrant research student community, with nearly 100 PGR students working across our
research portfolio, a 25% increase in enrolment since 2014. A notable success of an increased
focus on supporting our PGR students, both professionally and pastorally, has been an increase in
four-year submission rates from just under 80% at the start of the assessment period to 96%
towards the end of it.

The Graduate Student Committee, comprising academics representing the four research groups
and PGR student representatives, is responsible for managing recruitment, allocation of students
to academic staff, mentoring, pastoral care, training, oversight of the University Doctoral
Development Programme (DDP), and monitoring progress. The three students on the committee
are elected by their peers through an anonymised selection process to reduce unconscious bias.
Their presence on the committee, introduced in 2015, has led to the introduction of a number of
cross-department student-led activities, including coffee mornings and social events, financially
supported by the department.

The DDP commences with the student and supervisor carrying out an individually tailored training
needs analysis (TNA), from which a training programme is designed, tailored to individual needs.
The aim is to provide PGR students with a range of skills and competency-based training
opportunities focused on enhancing their study and equipping them with transferable skills that
extend their employability. Since 2018, every PGR student has been allocated a mentor from a
small pool of experienced academic colleagues who, in addition to monitoring progress against the
TNA, has a pastoral role, providing advice throughout the period of the PhD. Progress is formally
monitored every six-months. Initially, all students start with a probationary PhD status, with a
decision on progression to the full PhD made at the end of the first year of full-time study, on the
basis of an assessment of their report, literature review and a viva with two academic colleagues
not involved in direct supervision.

The Department also provides financial support to a PGR-led initiative, CREATE, involving creative
workshops open to PGR students and staff, to enhance social interactions between researchers
and improve their wellbeing. Other initiatives include the PRES student satisfaction survey, for
which we receive positive to very positive feedback, and PGR students who have taken up UKRI-
funded internships (e.g. policy internship at National Assembly for Wales).

Our PGRs have led impactful science across all groups, with ~60% of our outputs being co-
authored by PGR students. Examples of their contributions include:


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   The fabrication of back-contact perovskite solar micro-modules using a directional
       deposition technique leading to efficient back-contact perovskite photovoltaic devices.
       (Stringer, Routledge et al, Energy and Environmental Science, 2019).

   •   New insights into the evolution of Cataclysmic Variables from eclipse modelling (McAllister
       et al. MNRAS 2019).

Martin Dyer was awarded the 2019 Royal Astronomical Society Patricia Tomkins prize for the best
PhD thesis in astrophysics.

2.5 Equality, diversity and inclusion

The University is a sector leader in driving excellence through inclusion, and we seek to create an
environment in which all researchers can flourish. We are the only University listed in the Sunday
Times list of 100 ‘Best Not For Profit Organisations To Work For’ for the last three years. The
Faculty and Department EDI committees meet bi-monthly and monthly, respectively, ensuring
University EDI strategy is implemented. The Chair of our EDI committee is a member of our
Executive Committee and Promotions Committee.

The University holds an Athena SWAN Silver Award, and our Institute of Physics Juno Practitioner
status was renewed in 2018. Project Juno and Athena SWAN are reciprocal awards, so we are
able to focus more of our efforts on reviewing and refreshing our approach.

We are underrepresented in women (9%) and BAME (6%) in our staffing profile. To address this,
we have set ambitious targets in our EDI vision statement, namely:

“Our goal is that our department attracts an above average proportion of excellent applicants from
groups who are under-represented in physics, including women and BAME. This should lead to an
increase in the representation of such groups at all levels, including the most senior, with an
expectation of 25% women professors in 10 years, and a longer-term aspiration to fully reflect the
diversity of wider UK society.”

An associated action plan includes:

   1. A requirement that recruitment materials are screened for language and implicit
      assumptions which might deter applications from under-represented groups;

   2. A requirement for selection panels to involve a senior female academic from the
      Department or a cognate discipline;

   3. Unconscious bias training for all panel members and chairs;

   4. Independent scoring of candidates against the essential criteria of the job.

We continue to have a male bias in our applicant pool for academic and research positions,
although four of the 12 academic (including teaching specialist) appointments over the assessment
period were to women (33%). We have also been proactive in ensuring a greater representation of
women as invited seminar speakers, which is crucial to represent the diversity in physics and
provide inspirational role models. For 2016-2020 this was 26% (71 of 272) across all research
groups.

A number of academic staff are employed part-time to accommodate caring responsibilities or
reduce hours prior to retirement. For example, Parker has received a fellowship which explicitly
supports flexible working (Royal Society Dorothy Hodgkin). Research time of part-time staff is


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
protected in our WAM. A dedicated room for infant feeding has been recently refurbished in the
Faculty, within easy access to laboratories and offices.

Sheffield’s commitment to eliminating discrimination and promoting diversity includes strong and
active support for our LGBT+ staff and students, as evidenced by our ranking of 11th in the
Stonewall Top 100 Employers 2020 survey. One of our teaching-specialist academics who serves
as an LGBTQ+ role model and has been on the University EDI Committee since 2017 has played
a central role at an institutional-level, and is now further developing best practice within the
Department as chair of the EDI Committee. This includes an annual refresh of our Code of
Conduct for staff and students (see section 1.6).

The University has a Code of Practice that stipulates processes to ensure equality and diversity in
preparation of our REF submission. All members of REF Committees undertook REF-specific EDI
training including material on recognising and countering implicit bias. Peer review of outputs was
undertaken by staff with a breadth of expertise. Following our Code of Practice, outputs were
selected on the basis of ranked quality. When the cut-off was reached for the number to be
submitted, we considered the protected characteristics of the attributed authors for all outputs at
that particular star rating. The University has undertaken an equality impact assessment of our
output scoring and attribution, and on our independent researcher decision-making, and found no
evidence of bias. The institutional process for disclosing equality-related circumstances was
highlighted to staff to ensure awareness of the support available. The University has clear policies
that there will be no detriment to staff either in their classification as an independent researcher or
in the number of outputs submitted, and REF submission data is not used during recruitment,
review or promotion.




 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


3.1 Research funding

Our annual research income has steadily grown over the assessment period, increasing by 54%
from £5.1M in 2013/14 to £7.8M in 2019/20 (£225k/FTE). The £47.0M total income comprises
£34.0M from UKRI/Royal Society, £8.6M from the EU, £1.9M from industry, £1M from Innovate
UK, £0.7M from other UK charities, and £1M from other sources. Notable individual successes
include Tovey and Dhillon, who were both awarded ERC Advanced Investigator Grants, and
Hobbs, who was awarded a joint Investigator Award from the Wellcome Trust, one of only a small
number of physicists to receive such a grant.

All research groups have healthy research grant capture, as evidenced by selected large individual
grant successes as follows:

   •   The IS group (plus colleagues in Electronic and Electrical Engineering) is supported by a
       £5.6M EPSRC programme grant (2016-2022, PI Skolnick), a £1.4M EPSRC Centre to
       Centre award with TU Dortmund (2020-2024, PI Tartakovskii), a £2.2M quantum
       technology capital award, and a very recent £1.6M strategic equipment award (2020-2023,
       PI Tartakovskii). Skolnick also received an ERC Advanced Investigator award (€2.1M, 2013
       – 2018). Chekhovich is supported by a Royal Society URF (2015-2023).

   •   The MBP group has benefited from the UKRI Strategic Priority Fund “Physics of Life”
       programme grant, (PI Hobbs: £2.1M), and a joint Wellcome Investigator grant (PIs

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Hobbs/Foster, £1.6M). An EPSRC award supports research on perovskite solar cells (PI
       Lidzey, £0.9M, 2019-2022). Clark is supported by an institutional Advanced VC Fellowship
       and an EPSRC Programme Grant (PI Leggett, Chemistry, 2020-2025).

   •   The PPPA group is supported by a £2.4M STFC consolidated grant (2019-2022, PI
       Thompson), and a £1.3M STFC DUNE construction grant (2019-2023, PI Spooner). Tovey
       received an ERC Advanced Investigator award (€1.6M, 2016-2020) while Lohwasser has
       an ERC Starting grant (€1.5M, 2017-2022). Anastopoulos is supported by a Royal Society
       URF (2015-2023).

   •   The AA group is supported by a £1.1M STFC consolidated grant (2018-2021, PI
       Tadhunter). Dhillon received an ERC Advanced Investigator award (€3.5M, 2014-2019).
       Maund was supported by a Royal Society URF (2011-2019), Parker is supported by a
       Royal Society DHF (2017-2021) and Parsons is supported by a STFC Ernest Rutherford
       Fellowship (2018-2023).

These large awards facilitated significant contributions across all of our areas, including large
international collaborations (e.g. Lohwasser, PRL, 2019), developing new instrumentation for high
time-resolution astronomy (Dhillon, Littlefair, Nature, 2016), and producing new types of
nanostructured devices (Skolnick, Fox, Nature Nanotechnology, 2018). We have successfully
broadened our range of funders by targeting different streams (e.g. EU) and by growing our
strength in interdisciplinary areas, allowing access to a broader range of funders, with Wellcome,
CRUK, BBSRC being notable areas of success. This diversification in funders has allowed us to
broaden the reach of our outputs (Cadby, eLife, 2018). The strategy of pursuing large and flexible
funding streams, particularly programme grants and fellowships, has provided the time and
resource to move into exciting new fields. For example, Tartakovskii into 2D heterostructures
(Nature, 2019), and a new method developed in an EPSRC programme grant (Hobbs, ACS Nano
2016) which enabled a study in a BBSRC grant (Hobbs, Nature Comms, 2018) which led to a
Wellcome Investigator award (Hobbs, Nature, 2020).

Our strategy is to provide support for grant capture at all levels, delivered through our strong group
structure. Internal peer review on draft applications is carried out for all UKRI grants with at least
two independent reviewers providing feedback prior to submission. For fellowship and major grant
applications, support is provided by Research Services who coordinate mock interviews with
academics across the University who have served on relevant committees. This approach has
helped us to obtain several prestigious fellowships and programme grants, ensuring that we
present our case to its full potential.

Over this period we have further developed the impact of our research, targeting both direct
industrial funding and joint ventures with industry. We have received £1.4M research awards from
industry, most notably £837k from National Grid (PI: Buckley), feeding into the development of our
Solar Photovoltaic case study, £274k from Power Roll Ltd. (PI: Lidzey) and income contributing
towards PhD studentships (~£40k each) from AWE, Cytec-Solvay, Akzo Nobel, Ossila, Lonza,
Biologics, Cairn Research, Solvay and VBC IE. Extensive joint projects with industry have been
funded both by EPSRC (Prosperity Partnership with AkzoNobel/International Paint, joint with
Manchester) and Innovate (e.g. £1.2M with VBC IE), helping VBC IE to move into the Asian
aeroplane engine repair market.

Our future funding strategy is an enabler for our wider research strategy. We will expand our
biological physics activity, cementing strong interdisciplinary interactions with biosciences and
medicine, supported through access to the wide range of life sciences funders and through the
growing realisation amongst funders of the important role that physics can play in meeting societal

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
challenges in this area. We will expand our activity in energy materials, focusing on interactions
with industrial partners and feeding into our objective to expand our impact activity. Growing our IS
group will help ensure continued access to large flexible funding streams following mid-term
retirements.

3.2 Research infrastructure and dedicated research facilities

Our experimental research groups are housed in state-of-the-art laboratories which have
undergone extensive renovation and re-tooling in this assessment period (investment of £3.7M),
use and co-lead cross-faculty and cross-institutional facilities housed in other parts of the
University (investment of £20M), and help develop, utilise and lead large national and international
facilities.

The MBP group has benefited from significant investment in the Biophysical Imaging Centre
(BICEN) laboratories (£1M for state-of-the-art air-conditioned low noise laboratory space and
£800k of new microscopes co-funded by BBSRC and Wellcome, including a Bruker FastScan Bio
AFM and a Cairnfocal adaptable optical microscope) permitting high resolution imaging and force
measurement for category 2 biological pathogens. This investment has helped Cadby build new
relationships with a number of optical microscope camera manufacturers (Andor, Hamamatsu,
Photometrics) and with Cairn Research, an innovative UK microscope company, further developed
through CASE studentships and a sabbatical. It has also played a critical role in the MBP group’s
funding, and enabled new cross-disciplinary science.

To support our IS research the University has provided a new, temperature-controlled low noise
laboratory (£600k), giving dedicated space for the study of light-matter interactions in
semiconductor nanostructures, focused on polariton physics (e.g. Krizhanovskii, PRL, 2017), as
well as new fabrication facilities (£900k). This work is further supported by a recent successful bid
by Tartakovskii (with colleagues from the MBP group, and from across science and engineering)
for EPSRC funds to purchase and install a customised scanning near field optical microscope
(£1.6M). The equipment provides a unique suite of novel optical techniques capable of 10nm
spatial resolution, 50 to 1000 times below the optical diffraction limit.

We have also invested £200k in a laboratory containing welding facilities which supports ATLAS
upgrade engineering, plus collaborative industrial R&D projects which have benefited from
sustained Innovate UK investment linked to aerospace and robotics. A further £180k investment
from the University allowed us to upgrade clean room facilities for solution-processable
photovoltaic research and build on recent advances in spray-deposition of perovskite solar cells
(Lidzey, Energy & Environmental Science, 2014).

Our research capabilities are further enhanced by a dedicated team of workshop technicians
capable of carrying out entire instrument projects in-house, from mechanical design to final
manufacture. The team also has access to general-purpose clean-room facilities. The research of
the IS group is underpinned by a dedicated helium liquefier, staffed by two research technicians.
All of these facilities were crucial enablers for the development of particle physics detection
technologies across all our areas of interest (Spooner, Thompson, Vickey), while mechanical
workshop technicians led the design and engineering work for Dhillon’s ERC-funded HiPERCAM
camera.

As noted above, our interdisciplinary research benefits from shared access to world-class
instrumentation housed elsewhere on campus, including:



                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   National Epitaxy Facility in Electronic Engineering. Our IS research benefits from the close
       proximity to the National Epitaxy Centre which includes three molecular beam epitaxy and
       two metal-organic chemical vapour deposition reactors, with adjacent electron beam
       lithography and dry etching facilities all housed in 550m 2 clean rooms. This facility was
       enhanced by a £10M EPSRC contract awarded in 2016.

   •   The Soft Matter Analytical Laboratory and Lord Porter ultra-fast spectroscopy facilities in
       Chemistry (see section 1.3), £4.5M.

   •   Cryo-electron microscopy in Biological Sciences, which has benefited from ~£3.2M of
       University investment through the Imagine:Imagine Life initiative over this period, has been
       used for complementary cryo-EM AFM studies of the bacterial cell wall (Hobbs, Nature,
       2020) and bacterial spores.

   •   The Light Microscopy Facility (LMF) provides an array of fluorescence microscopy
       instruments which complement the in-house research instruments in BICEN and are
       extensively used by our MBP group (Cadby, eLife, 2018). Cadby sits on the management
       board of the LMF, providing invaluable insight into technological aspects of the
       instrumentation, and recent investment in light-sheet and Airyscan systems (£640k)
       complement the super-resolution STORM and SIM systems obtained in the previous
       period.

The University has invested over £2M over the assessment period in a shared high performance
computing facility (Bessemer), allowing access to high-speed parallel filestore and providing cloud
computing capabilities within the campus. The University is a partner in the N8 Tier 2 HPC facility,
a joint venture between the eight research-intensive universities in the north of England to provide
UK-leading computational capacity, leading to sharing of resource and expertise in this key
technology for a number of our activities in IS and MBP groups.

Dhillon led the team that designed, built, and commissioned HiPERCAM, a revolutionary high-
speed, five-colour CCD camera mounted on the 10.4m Gran Telescopio Canarias on La Palma.
Thanks to seed funding from the University, the AA group are one of the founding members of the
Gravitational-wave Optical Transient Observer (GOTO), an array of wide-field optical telescopes to
search for the electromagnetic counterparts to gravitational wave sources discovered by
LIGO/VIRGO/KAGRA. GOTO recently received £3.4M from STFC to complete the deployment of
the array in Australia and La Palma.

We make extensive use of general user international research infrastructure, including Diamond,
ILL, ISIS for X-ray and neutron scattering (Jones, Lidzey), plus the European Southern
Observatory and Hubble Space Telescope (AA group). By way of example, Parsons was recently
awarded 36 orbits with the Hubble Space Telescope (the second largest allocation to the UK for
Cycle 28) to unravel the origins of thermonuclear supernovae.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


Over this assessment period, individual staff members have continued to make substantial and
varied contributions to the broader research base at both national and international levels, helped
to drive growth and economic prosperity both locally and nationally, and played influential roles in
areas that are critical challenges for modern society.




                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.1 Research collaborations and partnerships

Research collaboration is at the heart of our success across all of our research groups and we
have a range of procedures to support and ensure that staff are able to benefit from, contribute to
and, where appropriate, lead, these activities.

International research leadership. During this assessment period three members of our PPPA
group have made significant contributions to the scientific leadership of the ATLAS collaboration:

   •   Tovey was elected ATLAS Physics Coordinator for 2015-17,
   •   Costanzo was elected ATLAS Computing Coordinator for 2017-19,
   •   Vickey has been elected as ATLAS Run Coordinator for 2020-22.

These leadership roles were enabled through substantial sabbaticals and are part of our strategy
to further strengthen our ATLAS activities, including the appointment of two new staff in this area
(Vickey and Lohwasser). Holding all three of these positions over just seven years mean we
have made a uniquely high contribution to the leadership of ATLAS over this period. Also
from our PPPA group, Malek is the UK academic lead and joint spokesperson for the joint US-UK
nuclear non-proliferation project WATCHMAN, led by Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory,
with key UK partners STFC’s Boulby Underground Laboratory, AWE and Sheffield. This activity is
part of our aim to diversify our STFC activities towards research with societal impact.

Skolnick in our IS group has collaborated with a group of Russian labs for nearly 20 years, which
has led to the recruitment of excellent academic staff and extended visits from two Russian
academic staff to the Department as well as much new science. He is Director of a Russian
Megagrant (2017-20, £1.5m) which supports a team of approximately 10 researchers in Russia
and has already produced significant outputs (Krizhanovskii, Nature Photonics, 2020).

International research collaborations

All of our staff are involved in active international research collaborations, and 87% of our
submitted outputs include co-authors from non-UK institutions. Here we discuss just the most
significant examples.

Our PPPA and AA groups carry out almost all their research with international partners because of
the multinational nature of particle physics, and because observational astronomy cannot
productively occur in the UK. Particle physics collaborations vary in scale, from more than 3,000
researchers for ATLAS, 1,200 for LIGO, to 500 for T2K, 300 for DUNE, 250 at LZ, and 350 at
Hyper-Kamiokande – these are truly international endeavours. The extended time commitments
that these activities require are enabled by a high-level of flexibility in teaching and administrative
roles, part of our overall strategy. In our AA group, Dhillon’s activities are particularly noteworthy,
with extensive international collaborations, including with the IAC in Spain where he is an affiliated
researcher, the European Southern Observatory and Thailand’s NARIT, at whose facilities the
HiPERCAM, ULTRACAM and ULTRASPEC instruments he developed are deployed.

As well as the above-mentioned collaboration with Russian institutes, our IS group has a strong
collaboration with TU Dortmund, supported by an EPSRC centre-to-centre grant to Tartakovskii.
He has also been co-ordinator for two EU ITNs during this period, bringing together ten member
consortia across Europe.

National research collaborations play a critical role in many of our research activities. As well as
the use of formal networks, such as the White Rose University Consortium (which funds cross-
institutional studentships), we encourage the development and widening of national collaborations

                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
through funding a seminar programme for each of our research groups, with weekly seminars that
are open to all during term-time. Highlights of our national collaborations include:

   •   Skolnick, Fox, Wilson and Kok are involved in Phase 2 of the Quantum Communication
       Hub led by York.

   •   Tartakovskii collaborates with Manchester on a range of projects related to 2D materials.

   •   Lidzey collaborates with Southampton on polaritronics (EPSRC Programme Grant £5.1m)
       and is a member of the CDT in New and Emerging Photovoltaics, a consortium of seven
       universities.

   •   Dhillon is Executive Board and Steering Committee Member of GOTO, the Gravitational-
       Wave Optical Transient Observatory, which has the aim of detecting electromagnetic
       radiation from gravitational wave compact mergers.

   •   Hobbs leads a cross-disciplinary £2.1m UKRI strategic priorities grant on “The Physics of
       AMR” with colleagues from Cambridge, Newcastle, and Edinburgh.

4.2 Contributions to the sustainability of the discipline

All research staff contribute widely to the discipline, through journal editorships, membership of
committees, invited talks at conferences or conference organisation, and refereeing for
publications and research proposals. We encourage these activities and our WAM provides time
so they can be given the necessary priority.

Awards

Skolnick’s continued contributions have been recognised by the Quantum Devices Award in 2015
and the IoP Optics and Photonics Prize in 2018 and he is a Foreign Member of the Russian
Academy of Sciences. Hobbs was awarded the 2019 IoP Phillips prize for his “significant
contributions to the IoP Biological Physics Group through organising major conferences and
inputting into policy” and he was amongst the recipients of the 2020 IoP Rosalind Franklin Prize
awarded to the Physics of Life UK Network (PoLNET) steering group for its support of the
community and influence on UKRI strategy. Buckley and Lidzey are co-directors of Ossila, our
Growth of Ossila case study, which was awarded the 2018 IoP Queen's Awards for Enterprise and
International Trade. Geoptic, a spinout company of which Thompson is Director, was awarded the
2020 IoP Business Start-Up award for the innovative contribution it has made to the rail industry
via the development of non-invasive imaging instrumentation and techniques.

Grant panel membership

All staff contribute to the grant process, through refereeing, panel membership etc. Where the
contribution is substantial, additional allowance is made in our WAM, in recognition of the
importance to the wider discipline. Examples include Fox, who was Chair of EPSRC Physical
Sciences Prioritization Panels in 2019 and 2020, Skolnick who was a member of the Royal Society
URF Appointment Panel A(i) (2011-2015, Deputy Chair 2014-15), and the 1951 Royal Exhibition
panel 2019/20, Crowther who was a Member of the URF Appointment Panel A(i) (2014-2019,
deputy chair for 2017-2019), and Tovey who is a Member of URF Appointment Panel A(i) from
2019-2021.




                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Committee membership

Again, staff are strongly encouraged to support their wider research community, and many have
made significant contributions to their activities. Here we highlight examples where leadership roles
were taken. Booth is Chair and Secretary of the Collaboration Board, and member of the Executive
Board of the international Muon Ionisation Cooling Experiment (MICE), Crowther was sub-panel
chair for the Hubble Space Telescope Time Allocation Committee in 2020. Dhillon is the UK
representative on the international WEAVE board, which is the new £25M fibre-fed spectrograph
for the William Herschel Telescope on La Palma, and Chair of the GOTO executive Board. Hobbs
was Co-I of the first Understanding the Physics of Life EPSRC NetworkPlus (PoLNet) and co-
authored the resultant “Roadmap” which was used by UKRI when it launched its Strategic Priority
Fund in this area in 2018. He also chaired the IoP Biological Physics group from 2014-2018.
Kudryavtsev was Chair of the Institute Board and a member of the Executive Board of the LZ
Collaboration in 2018-2019; Tovey was STFC Science Board Chair-elect 2015, Deputy Chair
2014-15, member 2013-14, and Chair of the STFC Oversight Committee for the LUX-ZEPLIN
experiment; Tadhunter was Chair of the STFC Liverpool Telescope Oversight Committee 2014-
2016.

Conference invitations and organisation

95% of our staff have given invited talks at international conferences over this period, with a total of
298 over the period, and many have been involved in conference organisation, with staff involved
in organising over 48 national and international meetings over the period. Here we highlight a few
particular examples. Clark (ECR) was a Committee member for the International Conference on
Optical Properties of Organic and Hybrid Optoelectronic Materials and Applications (every two
years), the International Conference on Ultrafast Phenomena (every two years) and the Physical
Chemistry of Semiconductor Materials and Interfaces Session at SPIE (yearly). Crowther and
Maund (ECR) co-organized the Royal Society Theo Murphy international workshop "Bridging the
Gap: from Massive Stars to Supernovae" (2016). Hobbs was an organiser of the EBSAIUPAB
2017 congress in Edinburgh (around 1300 participants), and he has also organised conferences
including “Quantitative approaches to AMR” (Edinburgh 2017), “Understanding the Physics of
Cancer” (Sheffield 2017), “Merging clinical, biological and physical sciences approaches to cancer
research” (London 2018), Krizhanovskii co-organised the 2017 Optics of Excitons in Confined
Structures meeting in Bath. Kudryatsev was co-organiser of the international conference
Identification of Dark Matter in Sheffield in 2016. Lidzey co-organised the European Optical Society
Annual Meeting and has been a session co-organiser for 'TOM 7' on organic and Hybrid
Semiconductors for the last 10 years. Tovey was co-chair of the Programme Committee for the 6th
Annual Conference on LHC Physics (Bologna 2018) and a member of the advisory committee for
the international workshop “Dark Matter at the LHC” (2016-2019).

4.3 Contributions to society

One of our overarching aims over this period has been to further expand the wider impact of our
research, providing strategic support, time and funding to do this. This has led to a wide range of
activities beyond those covered by our impact case studies, from partnerships with national and
international companies through spinouts to large public engagement events. Examples that show
promise to provide substantial impact over the next 5-10 years include:

   1. Sich and Dufferwiel, former researchers within the IS group, are now CEO and CTO of a
      spin-out company AegiQ, which received £207k from Sheffield’s IPDa|C fund to
      commercialise high-performance quantum photonic systems based on on-demand single
      photons, for applications in broadband quantum communication, imaging, microscopy and

                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       scalable quantum computing, building directly upon outputs of recent ESPRC programme
       grant support.

   2. Instrumentation that Thompson helped to develop whilst Sheffield PI on a DECC/Premier
      Oil funded project has resulted in him forming a spin-out company with colleagues from two
      other universities. They are working with Network Rail to provide the capability to find
      hidden voids in railway tunnels. The company recently completed delivery of its first
      external contract, are midway through their second, and have been commissioned for a
      third.

   3. Lidzey has worked extensively with Power Roll Ltd. over the past five years, with
      experimental activity at Sheffield enabling the company to validate their research concept of
      a back-contact perovskite solar cell (Energy and Environmental Science 2019). This
      engagement has allowed the company to raise further venture capital to expand its
      activities.

   4. Building further on the impact covered in our Solar Photovoltaic case study, Buckley has
      worked closely with National Grid and others to openly monitor GB photovoltaic energy
      generation and system deployment, including work with Open Climate Fix and the Alan
      Turing Institute in developing open data and machine learning for tracking PV deployment.

Wider outreach activities play an important role in widening participation in science and are
strongly encouraged. Outreach activities span all research groups:

   •   AA group: Crowther co-curated ‘Sounds of the Cosmos’ at Festival of the Mind 2014, which
       involved a live orchestral performance of Holst’s Planets Suite interweaved with astronomy
       presentations. This coincided with visits targeted at WP schools to engage with the STFC
       ‘Seeing the universe in all its light’ interactive roadshow. ‘Sounds of the Cosmos’ was
       subsequently performed at the Crucible Theatre as part of Doc/Fest 2015, and Latitude
       Festival 2015. Crowther and Dhillon have also contributed to the YouTube astronomy Deep
       Sky Videos channel, highlighting research results on the Westerlund 1 star cluster (45k
       views) and runaway stars (38k views).

   •   Our IS group have produced YouTube videos attracting >150k views and been involved in
       three National Science Festivals. This included being visited, at Cheltenham in 2017, by the
       Prime Minister who discussed the exhibit and the importance of Quantum Technologies.

   •   MBP group: KrebsFest, a celebration of the interdisciplinary biosciences work inspired by
       the Sheffield Nobel Prize winner Hans Krebs, was co-organized by Cadby in 2015, and had
       over 100k visitors, and won Highly Commended status in 2016 in the Public Engagement
       and Advocacy category at the Association of Research Managers and Administrators
       awards.

   •   PPPA group: Cartwright was a guest on Melvyn Bragg's Radio 4 In Our Time, in 2015, and
       a guest at Cheltenham Science Festival 2019, for a panel discussion on James Clerk
       Maxwell.

To further expand this aspect of our research we recruited an Ogden Outreach Officer in 2019,
who has facilitated staff and students to engage locally and more widely in outreach linked to their
research, and helps to coordinate the annual ‘Discovery Night’, involving members of the public
visiting the University to engage through demonstrations and talks with staff.




                                                                                                Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The analytical approaches that underpin physics can have significantly wider application and
hence impact. Jones, now in Manchester developing further innovation policy, has contributed
significantly to science policy over this period, including co-authorship of ‘The Metric Tide’, and of a
Nesta report ‘Bursting the biomedical bubble’ (2018) which has been influential in shifting the
funding policy of the Wellcome Trust. His blog post ‘Resurgence of the Regions’ (2019) was cited
by the PM’s Chief Policy Advisor at the time, leading to Jones’ involvement in science policy
discussions in Downing Street prior to the 2020 Spending Review.




                                                                                               Page 20
