Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Reading

 Unit of Assessment: UOA 32A Art

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview
 Research at Reading School of Art is underpinned by the close connection and interdependence
 of practice-based research and scholarship, encouraging proactive engagements with
 contemporary art and its audiences. Over the REF 2021 period we have strengthened our
 research by developing dynamic research partnerships, enabling exchanges of ideas and co-
 creation of research, and innovative collaborations with galleries, museums, publishers and
 the cultural sector. We have significantly grown our interactions with the general public and
 diverse communities to pursue inclusive access to art. This approach has led to a dramatic
 improvement in our record for research funding, more than doubling our research income from
 REF2014. This has enabled us to undertake ambitious research projects and firmly establish our
 growth trajectory for the future. Our success and reputation have also attracted increasing
 numbers of postgraduate research students who chose to study at Reading.

 Structure and context
 Reading School of Art sits within the School of Arts and Communication Design, which also
 includes the Department of Typography & Graphic Communication and the Department of Film,
 Theatre & Television. Institutionally, research is organised through research divisions that
 frequently correspond with departments. Each division belongs to one of the four Research
 Themes established in 2015. Reading School of Art sits within the Heritage & Creativity
 Research Theme, led by a Research Dean, who supports and fosters research across divisions
 and Themes. The introduction of Research Themes across the University has stimulated cross-
 disciplinary engagement in Art’s research, for example, with archaeology and computer science.

 Art’s research strategies are developed by a dedicated Research Division Leader (RDL;
 Rowlands) and facilitated by the framework and leadership provided by the Heritage & Creativity
 Research Theme. The RDL’s work is supported within the context of our unit by a dedicated Unit
 of Assessment Lead, an Impact Lead, and a Director of Postgraduate Study. Art’s research
 strategy is reviewed through annual research planning, led by our RDL in consultation with all
 members of the research division, the Research Dean and Head of School.

 Research strategy
 In REF2014 we stated our aim to develop research through the use of archives and collections;
 to develop and extend research collaborations and partnerships, while prioritising grant capture
 for distinctive areas of shared research; and to achieve a step-change in our research to ensure
 vitality and sustainability in the long term.

 To achieve these aims, our strategic objectives centred on:
      Developing innovative, practice-led, theoretical and art-historical modes of enquiry;
      Developing and sustaining national and international research partnerships;
      Recruiting high calibre research students internationally, around identified research
         strengths and capacity;
      Securing diverse project funding from UK Research Councils, charitable trusts and
         foundations including the Arts Council, and the EU.

 Achievement of the first three objectives is described below, whilst the fourth is described in
 section 3 of this statement.

 Innovative practice-led, theoretical and art-historical modes of enquiry
 Our ambition has been to develop innovative art research at the interfaces between the
 production, distribution and mediation of art, its histories and its present. In REF2014 we
 reported that the acquisition of the Stephen Dwoskin archive by the University of Reading

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Special Collections would reinvigorate our future collections-based research. This has been
 achieved through The Legacies of Stephen Dwoskin a three-year AHRC interdisciplinary project
 (Garfield PI, 2018-21). Through the archive, the scholarship intervenes in the histories of
 experimental film to challenge current orthodoxies both in the UK and US. The research project
 includes practice-based research commissions for artists to make original work in and through
 the archive, raising questions regarding embodiment, disability and film. The three strands of
 research are interdisciplinary, examining Dwoskin’s cultural and political influence. The digital
 forensic co-investigators are developing parameters for digital-born material to expand the reach
 of their cutting-edge research in digital forensics for the humanities and to support researchers
 through the collaborative research with artists, theorists and historians working on the project.
 The ongoing archival research will yield new interpretations, reassessment and awareness of
 Dwoskin as a ground-breaking filmmaker, alongside contributing innovations in digital
 methodologies.

 Our collections-based research seeks to create new audiences, users and interpretations.
 This is evidenced in ECR Roithmayr’s ‘The Humility of Plaster’ (2018), an Arts Council funded
 three-year collaboration with Wysing Arts Centre, Museum of Classical Archaeology and Kettle’s
 Yard at the University of Cambridge. The interdisciplinary research explored the collections of
 moulds and casts to source narratives and practices and reposition the significance of these
 techniques and collections towards the practice of contemporary sculpture.

 A concentration of research within Reading School of Art focuses on curating and the form of
 exhibitions, their histories and politics. Richter’s ‘Speculative Curating, Performative
 Interventions’ (Migros Museum, Zürich, 2016), and editorship of the discipline-shaping
 OnCurating journal sets out scholarly investigations and theories of curating in the public sphere.
 Curation is also foregrounded in Rowlands’ practice-based curatorial projects ‘In the Reading
 Room of Hell’ (2018) and ‘Exercises in Style’ (2019), a satellite event of the Venice Biennale;
 and Pil and Galia Kollectiv’s curated programme at ‘xero kline coma’, an artist-run space that is
 a vital testing ground for new and emergent practices. During the assessment period, we have
 significantly built on this expertise in curatorial research with a step-change in the innovative
 development of ‘Reading International’. Through an Ambition for Excellence, Arts Council
 Award, Reading International (PI Clausen) critically activated a three-year visual arts programme
 in Reading. The research project sought to develop and test curatorial models between a
 regional arts community and an international art network.

 We maintain an innovative research profile in publication projects and critical art writing.
 Our research practice has been transformed through modes of production and dissemination
 that address the performative or transversal potential of writing and publishing. Our work in this
 area has been enhanced with the appointment of Frearson. Her durational writing project
 ‘Wollstonochlincraft 1791-1971’, questions the relationship between language and ideological
 formation; and ‘Sic’ (Y-Press, London 2017) utilises a global group of micro-workers, contracted
 through online gig-economy platforms. Rowlands’ editorial and curatorial project ‘Novel Upstairs’
 (Kunsthall Bergen, 2016) figures the dispersed scenography of reading practices in
 contemporary art. Publishing as artistic practice cultivates research methods of sharing in and
 through digital and performative contexts. Ellison’s ‘Let’s Interface the Music and Dance’
 (2017), workshops performance through non-linear scoring methods; Russell’s ‘SQRRL’
 published with Rhizome (2015), explores the mutability of digital form, the way text, image and
 animation can operate simultaneously as web-based essay, film and large-scale print, in which
 the formal reconfigurations forge posthuman transformations. Russell’s ‘Doggo’ (Kunsthalle
 Zurich & NAME Publications, 2017) captures the mutation of digital imagery and the migration of
 research across scripting, film production and animation in reimagining alternative political
 futures. These pioneering works, through their innovative critical methods, also impact the
 forms and published outcomes of our postgraduate doctoral submissions.

 Building national and international partnerships and collaborations
 We have sought to co-produce outputs in collaboration with international museums and galleries
 for academic and non-academic audiences, as demonstrated in detail in Section 4. A key

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 element of this aim has been to lead and encourage new forms of engagement through our
 research. This is exemplified by ‘Sensory Objects’, an AHRC-funded project, led by Allen, aiming
 to make museums more inclusive by listening to and working with people with learning
 disabilities. Central to the research is engaging people with learning disabilities as co-
 researchers in partnership with, amongst others, Speke Hall National Trust, Liverpool, Museum
 of English Rural Life (MERL) and the British Museum.

 The social and civic role of art in the construction of publics is evident in much of our work,
 including Kontopoulou’s ‘Democracy’ project (2016), incorporating participatory workshops and
 exhibition at Tate Modern, published in ‘Democracy and Community’ (Tate Publishing, 2017);
 Roithmayr’s competitive award of permanent site-responsive sculpture commission, working with
 architects and London Port Authority; Pil and Galia Kollectiv’s ‘The Immigrants’ (2017);
 Clausen’s ‘The People in our Neighbourhood’ (2016); and O’Connell’s ‘Deep Freeze’ (2016).

 Recruitment of high calibre international research students
 We have achieved this through developing national and international collaborations, notably with
 the Doctoral Research Platform for Curatorial and Cross-disciplinary Cultural Studies with Zurich
 University for the Arts (ZhDK). Through this key partnership, we have consolidated a practice-
 based Doctoral Research Platform for Curatorial and Cross-disciplinary Cultural Studies. As a
 result of its early success, the platform won a major Federal Swiss funding award (2016) which
 was match-funded by our partner ZhDK (total £250,000) to resource a three-year related
 research programme (with the intention to submit for a further three years). This includes project
 funding and support for Reading PhD students and research staff and offers scholarships for
 PhD students. The research platform, led by Richter, attracts an international cohort of
 researchers from the US, Israel and Europe, who all add to the richness of our postgraduate
 research environment. The funding enhances the sustainability of the collaborative research
 platform in curating and has enabled Reading School of Art to maximize its already growing
 international reputation.

 Impact
 The unit’s impact builds on the public-facing nature of its research process, engaging with
 museum and gallery policy and practice, and projects in outreach and widening
 participation, while providing educational opportunities to diverse audiences. We build deep
 and meaningful relationships with stakeholders in ways that seek to change their practice.
 Collaborative engagement on projects such as Reading International and Sensory Objects
 impacts audiences through public accessibility; empowers audiences through involvement in
 participatory research practices and creative processes; and creates the contexts in which
 they are shown and used. Participation leading to impact is also evidenced in the production and
 reception of artworks, curatorial projects, performances and museum artefacts, as in the work of
 O’Connell, Roithmayr, Rowlands and Pil and Galia Kollectiv.

 Our Impact Lead (Hellings) works with academics in Art and the University’s professional Impact
 team to fully incorporate impact across research in the division. The Impact Lead, together with
 the Impact team, develop and deliver a structured programme of workshops and training that is
 tailored to colleagues’ needs, whilst ensuring good practice is identified and shared. Our
 activities in these areas have been enabled by the University’s Building Outstanding Impact
 Support Programme (BOISP) and external Follow-on Funding, as detailed in section 3.

 We are actively incorporating the principles of Open Research in our work, as relevant to our
 discipline. We are part of the Heritage & Creativity Digital Humanities project which is integrated
 into the broader programme developing Open Research at the University. Our staff engage with
 the Open Research conference and undertake training offered by the University. We ensure that
 our outputs are freely accessible wherever possible, including through green and gold open
 access. University funding has, for example, supported gold open access publication for
 Ellison’s ‘Workshop: making beyond the post-medium condition’ (Visual Culture in Britain, 2017).



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Strategy for the next five years
 We will provide an innovative environment for individuals to develop as researchers, embedding
 their practice and scholarship within meaningful collaboration. Our future priorities are aligned
 with the vision to evolve an ambitious and sustainable environment that supports excellence in
 research.

 Our future objectives are to:

        Strengthen our commitment to inclusive research and engagement: we will do this
         through continuing to support our purpleSTARS and ArtLab projects, which demonstrate
         a longstanding commitment and expertise in inclusive research and engagement (see
         section 4). Kontopoulou’s iCare pilot project will investigate new ways of engaging young
         people at risk of social isolation and mental health problems who would not otherwise
         participate in cultural opportunities. Supported by Reading Borough Council and the
         University, the project aims to test creative ideas in collaboration with teachers and
         young people, to deepen knowledge and impact understanding of social care through art.

        Grow and diversify our ECR community: We will seek to expand and diversify our
         ECR community through post-doctoral fellowships and funding. We are committed to
         attracting research fellowships allied to our research interests, with high-quality
         candidates emerging from our postgraduate research programme. We will build on our
         thriving postgraduate research environment, sustaining quality completions, and
         securing further funding for our Curatorial Research Platform with ZHdK, through the
         Swiss National Science Foundation (SNF), for scholarships, with a focus on curatorial
         knowledge and its digital dissemination.

        Deliver innovation through digital methods and practice: We will strengthen our
         distinctive digital approaches and creative engagement through integrating digital
         developments and practice-based methods to intensify the investigation of art and
         technology across disciplines, further embedding Open Research principles in our work.
         We will build on current research undertaken by Frearson, Kollective, Ellison and
         Garfield. This will enable us to leverage strong interdisciplinary research that engages
         Art with other disciplines, building on from Hellings’ recent appointment as co-director of
         the Centre for Film Aesthetics and Cultures (CFAC). In addition, three AHRC-funded
         Dwoskin film commissions (Staff, Salmon, Ifekoya; see section 4) will be supported and
         promoted through Reading International; and we are planning to develop an annual
         platform for commissions. We will build capacity and share knowledge of the digital
         potential of research in Art through the Heritage & Creativity Research Theme’s Digital
         Humanities Project.

        Develop Reading International’s legacy: Building on the success of Reading
         International and aligned to the University’s strategic plans, we aim to build a
         sustainable arts infrastructure through partnerships (arts organisations, borough council,
         businesses) that have potential to support artists and creative communities within the
         region.

        Grow and deepen collaboration with key partners: We will continue to prioritise and
         develop collaborative opportunities for engagement with partners across heritage and
         culture, including the British Museum institutional partnership described in the
         Institutional Environment Statement, which offers a framework for interdisciplinary
         collaboration.


 2. People

 The vitality of our research environment is founded on a combination of full-time and part-time
 staff (8 full-time and 4 part-time and one 50:50 job share). A third of our staff are professors,

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 20% are associate professors and 47% are lecturers. Our staff is diverse: we have a
 female/male ratio of 60/40, and 53% of our staff are non-British. Our staffing structure provides
 crucial stability for long-term planning, balanced with artist-researchers engaged with the
 demands of practice, public engagement and scholarship.

 The unit has a doctoral cohort of 36 and approximately 260 undergraduate and postgraduate
 taught students on teaching-intensive programmes. Our research critically informs our teaching
 and defines the success of our programmes, whereby the environment thrives from contact with
 artists, researchers and curators. One of our challenges as a small unit is to coherently plan
 teaching and research across the division, supporting individual research ambitions and
 developing strategic funding bids focused on our collective strengths and resources.

 During the REF period we have made four new strategic appointments to strengthen expertise
 across practice-based and scholarly research. Of the four new appointments, three are Early
 Career Researchers (ECRs). These appointments have expanded strengths in publishing as
 practice (Frearson), deepened our involvement with public engagement and widening
 participation (Kontopoulou) and expanded material collections-led research (Roithmayr).
 Hellings’ appointment in 2015 revitalised new approaches to art theory and visual cultures. The
 success of the AHRC Dwoskin research project led to the appointment of Chamarette (Co-I in
 the project) as a Senior Research Fellow (2020), together with two full-time PDRAs (Bartliff and
 Miller).

 Supporting Early Career Researchers (ECRs)
 All Art’s ECRs have a mentor to facilitate their development and access to dedicated support
 schemes, including training and career development advice. We support ECRs through peer
 review and sharing good practice with a specific focus on practice-based research, promoting
 opportunities for ECRs to enhance their research plans and take advantage of interdisciplinary
 research fostered by the Research Themes. The RDL and HoD ensure that workloads are
 managed so that they have sufficient time to develop their research portfolios and funding
 applications. All ECRs initially have reduced teaching loads to enable necessary training and
 development of their research profile. They are supported in their professional development and
 encouraged to lead research seminars, building research networks and developing research
 leadership skills. For instance, Kontopoulou led the Reading Assembly at Tate Exchange 2020;
 Frearson was funded by the Heritage & Creativity Research Theme to attend the Oxford Digital
 Humanities Summer School; and Roithmayr was supported to develop his research profile,
 enabling him to transition from a Teaching Intensive to a Teaching and Research appointment
 after completing a PhD in 2018.

 The effectiveness of these mechanisms is evidenced in the career progression and success of
 our ECRs. In addition to Kontopoulou’s role at Tate Exchange 2020; Roithmayr was promoted to
 Associate Professor in 2020 and was nominated for a University ECR prize.

 Supporting staff, rewarding excellence; celebrating diversity and inclusion
 All new staff are mentored by an established member of academic staff, including formal
 induction into procedures for research planning. Staff are supported through the promotion
 process with the guidance and advice of a School Personal Titles Mentor. The School of Arts
 and Communication Design Personal Titles Committee reviews all members of the School,
 irrespective of career stage, to encourage the widest-possible level of participation. The
 promotion process allows for and takes account of an individual’s personal circumstances,
 including maternity and adoption leave, ill-health and caring responsibilities. During this REF
 cycle, 2 members of staff were promoted to Associate Professor and Professor (Roithmayr;
 Garfield).

 Personal Research Plans (PRP) are undertaken annually by all staff and cover a 5-year rolling
 period. Through the PRP process, staff are encouraged to reflect on their individual research
 goals and the support they require to achieve them, with emphasis on plans for the production of
 outputs, impact activity, public engagement and funding applications. PRPs are discussed with

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Research Division Lead, who provides support in the development of short and long-term
 strategies to address individual aims The process helps staff identify training and development
 needs and the different ways in which these can be met, including opportunities provided by the
 University. PRPs also inform the Performance and Development Review (PDR) in consultation
 with the Head of Department (Garfield) to align teaching and workload models.

 Research leave is crucial to enable staff to devote focused time to research. Research leave is
 managed and funded by the unit through internal redistribution of workload amongst colleagues.
 It is based on an established pattern of one term in nine, focused in the Summer term due to
 teaching-intensive commitments. Art’s research leave policy is equitable in providing one term in
 nine, regardless of career stage or full-time or part-time status. Research leave supports up to
 four staff per year and prioritises those who are improving the quality of research outputs; those
 who require dedicated time to complete practice-based research; and those engaging with
 impact projects and developing research funding applications. Research leave is overseen by
 the Research Division Committee that meets in each of the three annual teaching terms.

 All staff have access to a wide range of training and development opportunities, including
 training provided by Heritage & Creativity in Social Media and Research, Collections-based
 Research and Open Access, for example. With support of Research Development Managers
 and Impact Development Managers, we provide training on development of grant applications,
 impact and engagement. Staff have benefitted from the funding made available by the Heritage
 & Creativity Theme to attend the Oxford Digital Humanities Summer School (Frearson, Garfield).

 Research leaders and mentors encourage and assist staff to apply to competitive external
 funding schemes that can include provision of research time. Through Heritage & Creativity’s
 Grant Development College (see section 3), staff receive feedback and specific support to
 develop grant applications. Funding for pump-priming and grant bid development from the
 University’s Research Endowment Trust Fund (RETF) is also available on a competitive basis,
 and we support our staff in their applications to these schemes. Six Art researchers received
 pump-priming funding over this REF period and three staff were also supported through
 internally funded, competitively awarded, University Research Fellowships.

 During the REF cycle, staff in Art had four periods of maternity/paternity leave supported through
 phased returns to work and flexible working arrangements. We accommodate activities and
 meetings to ensure that these colleagues, part-time staff, and staff with caring responsibilities
 are fully included in the unit’s activities and have access to all opportunities. We are able to do
 this through maintaining good organisation, sustained communication and offering a variety of
 opportunities. Collaboration is vital for Art, discovering new ways of working together and others
 across disciplinary boundaries. Notably, we have one 50:50 job share (Pil and Galia Kollectiv),
 who bring an important collaborative approach to research and their joint role as Directors of
 Postgraduate Research.

 Our commitment to equality and diversity is well represented and evidenced in the Sensory
 Objects / purpleStars work; in ArtLab’s work with primary and secondary schools; and in the
 Dwoskin project that seeks to establish Dwoskin’s significance as a pioneering artist with
 disabilities. All staff in Art have participated in School of Arts & Communication Design sessions
 addressing Equality and Diversity; key staff have all undertaken training in unconscious bias,
 diversity and inclusion to sustain our good practices, including those involved in the construction
 of our REF submission, who attended REF specific sessions. An Equality and Diversity Working
 Group in Art was established in 2020 to further develop our thinking and behaviours.

 Our output selection process has aimed at optimisation for quality whilst being mindful of
 inclusivity and fairness. All submitted outputs were selected on the basis of the quality
 assessments reached through internal peer review processes. These processes are consistent
 with the institutional peer review framework (ROSS) and require routine review by at least two
 staff members. In line with the requirements of our Code of Practice, the UOA Lead, in
 consultation with the RDL and HoD, ensured that all available outputs were treated equally at

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the outset, regardless of their form and type, or career stage of the author. This resulted in a
 balanced portfolio representing the range of research undertaken in the unit. An interim Equality
 Impact Assessment report carried out at University level in 2020 showed no statistically
 significant differences across career stage and protected characteristics for the institution and
 Main Panel D, providing us with confidence that our process is effective. Similarly, a bias
 analysis for the selected pool carried out in 2021 did not find statistically significant differences in
 our final selection.

 Postgraduate Research
 Reading School of Art has a thriving postgraduate research community, with 42 doctoral
 students engaged in doctoral research at the end of July 2020. Our students come from a variety
 of backgrounds: in 2019 we had students from 17 different nationalities. Almost two thirds had
 non-UK students, and of these, 61% were BAME students; 10% had declared disabilities.

 Recruitment of PGR students is through targeted networking and mentoring of candidates from
 our PGT programmes and local, national and international activities. We have also been
 successful in supporting 9 Reading students progressing from MA to PhD through the census
 period. In 2014 we launched a new taught MA in Creative Enterprise, working with Reading’s
 renowned Henley Business School to develop ECRs who want to link their academic
 specialisms to the creative industries. Our postgraduate research numbers have grown
 significantly since 2014. In the assessment period, we have awarded 27 PhDs, nearly doubling
 those awarded in the previous REF cycle.

 We have gained funding through the AHRC South West and Wales Doctoral Training
 Partnership (SWW) for our PhD students, and from University of Reading studentships and
 regional fee waivers. PhD students in Art have been awarded four ARHC studentships; a
 University of Reading Collections Based Research fee waiver competitive award
 (O’Donoghue, Tate archive curator); two strategic University studentships awarded through
 the University studentships competition (Lockhart, ArtLab, and Hoel, in partnership with the Lux,
 Dwoskin).

 The Doctoral Research Platform for Curatorial and Cross-disciplinary Cultural Studies with
 Zurich enhances our research and the experience of our doctoral students. It forges institutional
 connections between Art at Reading and the doctoral researcher’s affiliated institution, for
 example, with Staatsgalerie Stuttgart, Academies of Fine Art in Budapest and Vienna; and
 increases the strong professional profile of our postgraduate research environment. Our
 postgraduate researchers from the curatorial platform have taken up key posts across the fields
 of curating and academia, including Elke Krasny (Professor at the Academy of Fine Arts,
 Vienna); Omar Kholeif (formerly Senior Curator, Museum of Contemporary Art Chicago;
 currently Director of Collections, Sharjah Art Foundation); Avi Feldman (Goethe-Institut
 Curatorial Resident, New York).

 Progress of students is monitored in line with the University’s Code of Practice on Research
 Students. Doctoral students deliver an annual presentation attended by staff and regular formal
 evaluations of written work by supervisors and presentations of practice both inside the Art
 studios and outside within wider context of exhibition. Confirmation of PhD registration after a
 year of work (or part-time equivalent) is granted only after review by two colleagues of chapter-
 length submissions and presentation of practice, leading to more timely completions and
 excellent pass rates.

 Students benefit from support provided by the University’s Graduate School, which provides
 desk space, training rooms and social activities. The Graduate School delivers a researcher
 development programme which provides training in study skills, communication skills, Open
 Research and research integrity, funding and grant applications, as well as the Preparing to
 Teach programme, the PGR Leadership Programme and the PGR Women’s Development
 Programme (Sprint).


                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School of Art provides induction, regular colloquia and fora for PGR research, often focusing
 on negotiating practice-based research methods, led by dedicated Directors of Postgraduate
 Study (Kollectiv). Notable annual PhD symposia have included ‘Unnaturally Occurring
 Compliance’, hosted at Thames Tower, Reading (2017); ‘Criticality and the Politics of
 Representation’ (2016), with guest speakers including Chris Fite-Wassilak, Jennifer Thatcher;
 ‘Surface Values’ (2018), with respondents John Chilver and Maggie Roberts.

 Doctoral candidates are supported in developing critical interdisciplinary research projects and,
 where relevant, supervisory teams are drawn from across the University, including with History,
 Film and English. For example, Melanie Jackson, AHRC SWW DTP researcher, worked closely
 with University of Reading farms, MERL archive and was co-supervised with Archaeology.
 Jackson’s research investigated the political and social implications of milk, resulting in a co-
 authored book with Professor Esther Leslie (Birkbeck) and exhibitions including Para/Site, Hong
 Kong, and Limerick Biennial (2020). A further example is that of Dan Kidner, AHRC SWW DTP
 researcher, examined ideas of community in the work of political filmmakers from the 1970s. His
 research was published in a new edition of the ‘Nightcleaners’, co-edited with Alex Sainsbury;
 and a touring exhibition ‘The Inoperative Community’, Raven Row and Muzeum Sztuki, Poland
 (2016). Finally, Oreet Ashery’s PhD by publication examined dying and care in the digital age,
 winner of the Film London Jarman Award and recipient of the Turner Prize bursary (2020).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 During the REF period the unit has doubled its research income (spend) when compared to REF
 2014 as illustrated below:

 Table 1: Research Income

                           REF 2014         REF 2021        Increase

  Income                      401,389        806,071         100%

  Per year                  80,277.80        115,153         43%

  Per Year per FTE               7,042        10,236         45%

 We have also doubled our grant capture, being awarded grants for a total of £953,182 during
 this cycle. We have diversified our funding sources as a key strategic objective, which has
 injected vitality and sustainability into our research and enabled us to achieve our aspirational 5-
 year income target within an increasingly competitive environment.


                Research Grants £953,182




       Research Councils    UK Government    UK Charities     EU

 Figure 1: Sources of funding of grants awarded in this REF period


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The unit’s strategy through the assessment period has been to develop and maintain income,
 infrastructure and facilities to support its research objectives. To achieve this, we have
 implemented more rigorous internal peer-review procedures, ably supported by Research and
 Enterprise Services (RES) and the Heritage & Creativity Grant Development College. Comment
 on applications is routinely provided at the initial stage, followed by feedback on proposal drafts
 and impact plans supplied by the RDL and at least one senior member of the division. These
 procedures have supported staff through the application process ensuring a higher success rate
 (83% grant success rate). Through this process, we have secured a major AHRC award for The
 Legacies of Stephen Dwoskin (total award £954,797, with £443K to Reading, PI Garfield) and
 our Ambition of Excellence Award from Arts Council of England (£345,000, PI Clausen)
 which was also matched by £20,000 each from both Reading Borough Council and the
 University. Artistic projects from Roithmayr, Kollectiv and O’Connell have also been supported
 by ACE (£80,000 +). We have won our first major Horizon 2020 EU funded research project
 with EuroNoize £47,401 (Pil and Galia Kollectiv) and diversified funding through charitable trusts
 and organisations such as Elephant Trust, supporting Roithmayr and Ellison’s respective
 practice-based research projects.

 Since 2015 the University has invested over one million pounds in new research support posts,
 increasing the resource available to researchers from several central functions, including
 dedicated posts for the Heritage & Creativity Theme, comprising research development
 managers, impact support officers and a business relationship manager. This support is
 accessible to all staff. It has benefitted Art, for example, by suggesting funding routes,
 supporting costing for applications, and identifying opportunities for impact and knowledge
 transfer activities.

 Internal University funding, the Research Endowment Trust Fund (RETF), has supported Art’s
 endeavours to secure research income. Seedcorn funding from the Heritage & Creativity
 Research Theme facilitated Clausen in the development of a major Arts Council Award and
 Ellison’s AHRC funding bid with focus on Digital Humanities.

 The University established the Building Outstanding Impact Support Programme (BOISP) which
 provides professional support for collaborations, partnerships and communication of research
 leading to impact, and financial resource for impact activities and specialist support. Art received
 £44,000 to support the development of impact for Reading International (£20k) and Sensory
 Objects (£24k). This supplemented AHRC Follow on Funding Project – purpleStars, with two
 impact assistants and engagement activities with the British Museum. For Reading International,
 BOISP funded the time of an assistant curator to enhance impact of the visual arts programme,
 alongside social media research communications training.

 The University has invested in Art infrastructure via the Research Equipment and
 Infrastructure Fund. An investment of £100,000 in digital equipment revitalised our capacity to
 develop future research plans across ArtLab and digital research initiatives at the nexus of art
 and technology. We have also invested in building capacity through fully funded places at the
 Oxford Digital Humanities Summer School.

 Research studios are provided to assist with practice-based research across the division
 (Clausen, Russell, Roithmayr, Frearson, Ellison have all benefitted from this initiative). We
 ensure that all staff and PGRs have access to the School of Art’s exhibition and performance
 spaces. A technician (Stead) was appointed in 2018 to support research, alongside support
 provided for teaching practice. Editing suites, software, cameras and lighting are available and
 have been enhanced through our increased research income. Our support staff comprise two
 part-time executive support and one part-time research administrator (Dwoskin, EuroNoize).
 Support staff facilitate research events and public engagement, including Reading International
 events and PGR conferences.

 As a research-intensive institution, Reading’s distinctive research resources include the Library’s
 extensive holdings of artists’ books, periodicals and relevant journals. The University is also

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 home to a range of nationally and internationally significant museums and collections; including
 the distinctive Special Collections, which now house the Stephen Dwoskin Archive. Working
 closely with the Special Collections Service, we have sought to align research projects around
 the Dwoskin archive to aid development of the collections. In this manner, the Dwoskin project
 has acted as a driver for staff from the Special Collections Service to acquire new digital
 preservation skills, building capacity for digital archiving and curation. For example, the Head of
 Archive Services, Guy Baxter, was involved in the project from the outset and has gained
 funding from TNA to test new methods of research access for digital archives. Baxter is now
 organising a digital archive conference in partnership with National Library for Scotland and the
 Dwoskin academic partners. More generally, collections and archives including Dwoskin and
 Museum of English Rural Life (MERL) are key to several strands of research activity in the unit,
 as are the spaces and facilities offered by MERL and engagement with University’s Arts
 Strategy. These enhance Art’s distinctive research in forging new audiences, users and
 interpretations and engaging with national and international museums, galleries and collections
 to share research with both specialist and non-academic audiences.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research by Reading School of Art helps to shape our discipline and benefits wider society and
 communities through inclusion, access and building national and international networks and
 partnerships. Our approach to collaboration, co-creation and participatory research ensures that
 our work impacts and benefits all involved. By proactively developing and sustaining
 partnerships, we expand the societal benefits of our research and reach new audiences.

 Collaborations and contribution to the economy and society

 Building creative communities
 Our long-term vision in this area is to work with partners in arts organisations, local councils and
 business to develop a sustainable infrastructure that will support studio and exhibition spaces
 for emerging artists within the region. This complements the University’s Arts Strategy, which
 articulates the University’s ambition to be an activist institution in the visual arts and a regional
 leader in the field.

 Our Ambition for Excellence Arts Council Award for Reading International enabled us to develop
 a network of partnerships to offer cultural leadership and share good practice in developing
 cultural organisations. Reading International delivered over 60 events during the research
 project, promoting and commissioning major exhibitions and events including performances, film
 screenings, workshops and talks, as well as offsite projects and temporary public artworks.
 Hosted by a rich mixture of partners within the town, Reading International produced several
 major projects each year, in which artists and curators were given a platform to make new work
 in response to the unique social and historical contexts of Reading. Highlights included
 exhibitions from Turner Prize nominee Helen Cammock at the Museum of Reading; a campus-
 based performance from Tel Aviv’s Public Movement; and interdisciplinary workshops and
 exhibition negotiating the history of Greenham Common Women’s Peace Camp, with Nina
 Wakeford (curated by two of our PhD students). Additional project funding was secured,
 including Artis, Cultural Bridges at the EU, Canada Council for the Arts, and Goethe Institut,
 reflecting the international scope of the research. At Tate Exchange 2019, Reading International
 hosted a ‘Partner Summit’, and in recognition of the distinctive blend of research and public
 engagement, Reading International won the award for Best Cultural Organisation of the Year,
 Reading Cultural Awards.

 Inclusion, access and widening participation in Art
 Our curatorial and pedagogic research through widening participation activities builds wider
 audiences from non-traditional backgrounds and communities through focused activities of
 engagement. Our research seeks inclusive relationships with partners in ways that profoundly
 change their practices.


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Allen’s ‘Interactive sensory objects developed for and by people with learning disabilities’ has
 helped create new working practices for people with learning disabilities, making public
 heritage sites more inclusive and enhancing public awareness of learning disability. Work with
 the British Museum, the Museum of English Rural Life (MERL), Speke Hall National Trust in
 Liverpool, the Tower Group and the Rix Centre, at the University of East London, resulted in
 more than 60 sensory art and technology workshops and development of a toolkit for
 engagement. AHRC follow-on funding enabled the Sensory Objects project to expand and work
 with RIX Research & Media and The Tower Project's Job Enterprise and Training Service, an
 inclusive employment agency, to co-develop purpleSTARS (Sensory, Technology & Art
 Resource Specialists), providing sustainable employment opportunities for people with learning
 disabilities to work in museums. purpleSTARS was the focus of Tate Exchange 2018-19 and the
 approach has been adopted internationally by purpleSTARS Montreal, Canada.

 ArtLab, established in 2015 by O’Connell, is an ambitious widening participation programme
 that facilitates technology-led research, community participation and Art student research
 training activities. The initiative began with ‘Stellar Projects’ a collaboration now in its fifth year,
 between Maiden Erleigh School and Art at Reading and it currently works through Summer
 workshops with 10 local widening-participation primary schools in Berkshire. ArtLab’s work with
 schools is concerned with widening participation through Reading Scholars, whilst investing in
 new and emerging technology that supports researchers. Drawing on participatory research
 from Allen, Clausen and Roithmayr, ArtLab develops support for technology-led research,
 community participation and training through the School of Art. Underlying this idea is a set of
 core educational values concerning the deeper understanding of computing, digital media and
 new technologies, which will form part of a vibrant cultural and economically viable society both
 today and in the future. Utilising new technologies and methods of production – 3D scanning and
 printing, 360-degree filming, innovative light drawing – ArtLab shares interactive workshops for
 schools and museums. ArtLab’s values align with our research projects, underpinning art’s
 value to society and enhancing belonging, ownership, inclusivity, progression, life-long
 learning, whilst also addressing the role of technology in the creative industries more widely.
 Over the last 5 years, ArtLab has delivered workshop activities that have reached 8,516
 participants and external beneficiaries.

 Through the School of Arts and Communication Design’s Associate Partnership with Tate
 Exchange, we are able to showcase our research, impact and public engagement. The Tate
 Exchange programme for 2018 and 2019 was led by ArtLab, including purpleStars researchers
 and with a focus on educational partnerships.

 This blend of engagement, inclusion and technology can also be traced through recent doctoral
 research projects. For example, Heidi Aishman, Diffractive Curatorial Practice: Ripples, Gaps
 and the Space in-between (2020), explored how power can be shared through recognition of
 tacit knowledge and technology; and Gavin Larcombe, Learning through an autonomous
 experience of art as a social practice (2020), established a methodology for artists who work as
 teachers and provides an alternative approach to learning through socially engaged art practice.
 Among current doctoral researchers, Robyn Appleton considers Attention through participatory
 art; while Jon Lockhart’s Widening Participation Activities in the Arts Using Technology is
 embedded within ArtLab; and Bushra Alghamdi explores The social, political and cultural factors
 that condition the growth of interactive art and participation in Saudi Arabia.

 Contributions to the research base
 Our work has made a significant contribution to the research base in Art, through our role in
 leading national and international research networks and partnerships.

 We have shaped discourse within our discipline through exhibitions, conferences and symposia.
 We have staged major international conferences, as well as numerous colloquia and
 research seminars bringing together artists, curators and writers to focus on key research
 areas. The EuroNoize conference, Art, Music and Cultural Identity in an Age of Transnational
 Mobility at Reading (2018), organised by Pil and Galia Kollectiv, examined performance, music,

                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 cultural identity and nodes of independent production; On Reading, organised by Rowlands in
 collaboration with Bergen Kunsthall, Norway, focused on the act of reading in contemporary art;
 and Roithmayr’s Humility of Plaster at Museum of Classical Archaeology, Kettle’s Yard,
 Cambridge and Wysing Arts Centre, explored the materiality of collections.

 Our Research Platform in Curating with ZhDK Zurich has staged major international
 conferences with partner institutions including Curating and Feminist Thought, Migros Museum
 für Gegenwartskunst, Zurich (2016) published in OnCurating, issue 29, 2016; De-Colonizing Art
 Institutions, organised by Richter, supported by Kunstmuseum, Basel (2017); Curating on the
 move, conference and workshop examining ecology and world-making with the Taipei Biennale
 (2020), and in partnership with City University, Hong Kong; and Our Hegemonic Machines,
 Bucharest Biennial (2020). The research platform critically utilises the journal OnCurating, edited
 by Richter, as well as the public symposia and conferences that the platform supports with
 partners such as the prestigious Migros Museum für Gegenwartskunst.

 Our reputation for research leads to invitations to deliver lectures and key research
 presentations. Of particular note are Hellings’ contributions to After Post-Photography at
 European University of St. Petersburg (2016), and Adorno at Université Rennes (2017);
 Russell’s keynote lecture Doggo at the British School in Rome (2018); Garfield’s keynote Black
 Artists and Modernism Conference On Anwar Shemza, Tate Britain (2016); Renshaw’s
 Experiencing Architecture: Inviting Dialogue, Royal Academy of Arts (2018); and O’Connell’s
 Transpositions: From science to art (and back), Fargfabriken, Stockholm (2017).

 We have sustained and promoted new networks and collaborations through projects and
 research events. Reading International’s public programme of talks, lectures and partnerships
 provide an international forum for Reading and offer a visible platform for research within the
 division. The Curatorial Network Talks hosted weekly (through 2017) at South Street Arts,
 Reading, introduced international curators, sharing methods and models from Shwetal Patel,
 Kochi Muziris Biennale, India, and Lada Nakonechna, Method Fund, Kyiv to Lozana Rossenova,
 Rhizome, New York, and Robert Leckie, Gasworks, London. Through ‘EuroNoize’ (Horizon
 2020), Pil and Galia Kollectiv led a consortium including Are, Prague, and Kunsthall Oslo, to
 investigate the meaning (and sound) of cultural identity in an age of transnational mobility,
 through a series of conferences and performances.

 Our public-facing research outcomes, through exhibitions, screenings and performance, are
 developed in close collaboration with partner galleries and museums internationally and in the
 UK. The global reach of our research is fostered through collaborations such as: Roithmayr’s
 ‘With, and, or, without’ Camden Arts Centre, London (2015); Russell’s ‘Doggo’, Kunsthalle,
 Zürich (2017); Clausen’s ‘Liquid Trust’, Western Front, Vancouver (2015); Renshaw’s ‘Plan
 Unplan’, Stephen Lawrence Gallery, London (2017), curated by Outside Architecture (a
 collaborative research group founded by Renshaw).

 Garfield and Clausen have held prestigious Visiting Research Fellowships at the University of
 Newcastle and Musashino Art University, Tokyo, respectively. Strong and sustained
 partnerships with other UK and international universities underpin our research environment.
 ‘The Legacies of Stephen Dwoskin’ AHRC project has enabled us to build collaborations with
 researchers from the University of Glasgow and the University of Sheffield, in co-operation with
 the Lux and BFI, Arsenal Berlin and New York Film-Makers Co-op. The research project
 includes practice-based research commissions for artists to make original work (Patrick Staff,
 Margaret Salmon, Evan Ifekoya), in and through the archive, raising questions regarding
 embodiment, disability and film. A panel dedicated to Dwoskin research was hosted at the
 Screen Conference, Glasgow (2019) preceded by a dedicated Dwoksin Dossier published in
 Screen journal. The ongoing archival research will yield new interpretations and awareness of
 Dwoskin as a ground-breaking filmmaker, alongside innovations in digital methodologies.
 Findings will be shared at SMCS Society for Cinema and Media Studies and NECS European
 Network for Cinema and Media Studies.


                                                                                            Page 12
