Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Manchester

 Unit of Assessment: 2 - Public Health, Health Services and Primary Care

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Summary of the Unit of Assessment (89 persons; 85.6 FTE)

 Since REF2014, we have doubled the size of our UoA2 return to provide expertise aligned with
 our translational pathway from discovery to implementation. We have trebled our research
 income to £156.5m, built a vibrant PhD student cohort, and developed early-career researchers,
 representing 25% of our return. We have returned 214 outputs with a median of 55 citations per
 output and 28% having >100 citations (median field-weighted citation index 4.98 - Scopus).

 UoA2 research contributes to realising the World Health Organization (WHO) goal of narrowing
 health inequalities globally. Our research helps prevent and treat physical and mental disorders
 across the life-course. We improve understanding of these disorders, identify solutions and
 implement enhanced practice and policy to benefit our Greater Manchester communities and
 achieve national and international impact.

 We deliver research in three themes: Epidemiology and Public Health; Health Services and
 Policy; and Methodology and Data Analytics. We develop and apply advanced analytics to
 explore the causes of disease, its distribution in populations, and the effectiveness of treatments.
 Our impacts include improved cancer prevention and care, better targeted treatment for patients
 with respiratory diseases and enhanced safety of new medicines for inflammatory disorders
 (sections 1.2 and 1.3).

 Our cross-Faculty Research Domains in Applied Health and Digital Health have driven
 interdisciplinary working and wider collaborations (section 1.4). Our translational pipeline from
 discovery to implementation is supported by infrastructure, including: NIHR Biomedical
 Research Centre, School for Primary Care Research, Patient Safety Translational Research
 Centre, Applied Research Collaboration, and two Policy Research Units (section 3.2). We are
 fully integrated into the regional research and innovation ecosystem through one of only six
 Academic Health Science Centres and the unique Health Innovation Manchester, which hosts
 the regional Academic Health Science Network. We maximise impact through long-term
 engagement with policymakers, close collaboration with patients and the public, and evidence-
 based implementation science (section 1.6). The impact of our research has improved suicide
 risk management, ensured NHS resources are distributed according to need, and identified the
 best models of care for frail populations.

 1.2 Headline achievements

 Below we summarise how we delivered on our strategic aims from REF2014.

 1.2.1 Improved understanding of factors underpinning disease causation, progression,
 and treatment response

 Immune-mediated inflammatory diseases have a major impact. New targeted biologic therapies
 are effective but expensive, and their safety was unknown. We established biologics registers in
 arthritis, psoriasis and lupus. Our pharmacoepidemiological analyses of these registers has
 reassured clinicians and patients that these novel therapies will not elevate cancer risk following
 treatment for rheumatoid arthritis (Dixon, Hyrich, Lunt, Symmons Ann Rheum Dis 2015) or
 serious infection risk during treatment for psoriasis (Lunt J Invest Dermatol 2018).

 We examined regional differences in deprivation, disease, and mortality in England. We
 compared patterns of disease to primary care funding, showing how the North East and North
 West have the highest levels of morbidity but only average funding (Kontopantelis BMC

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Medicine 2018, Kontopantelis, Webb Lancet Public Health 2018). We showed that the health
 gap between the North and South costs the economy £31bn per year (Health for Wealth report),
 an inequality widened by COVID-19 (NHSA report). Our work with European and Global
 indicators is influencing how health data are captured and utilised (Verma Health 2020
 indicators), with all WHO Europe member states now reporting on these indicators.

 Inequality is a determinant of poor outcomes globally. In South Africa, one of the most unequal
 societies, we investigated the impact of cash transfers on mental health (Sutton Soc Sci Med
 2020). In Denmark, one of the least unequal nations, our analyses demonstrated how growing
 up in a relatively deprived family still increases incidence of self-harm (Kapur, Webb Lancet
 Public Health 2018) and mental illness (Webb JAMA Psychiatry 2019).

 We developed novel allocation formulae so policymakers could distribute resources according to
 need. We created formulae for the £100bn NHS England allocates annually for hospital, mental
 health, sexual health and drug misuse services. Our work will reduce the health gap between
 affluent and deprived areas, as independent research on our previous formulae has shown.

 1.2.2 Innovation in policy, organisation and delivery

 We host the National Confidential Inquiry into Suicide & Safety in Mental Health, collating data
 on all UK suicides since 1996. Our recommendations are cited in policy guidance, improving
 safety in mental health settings (Kapur Lancet Psychiatry 2016a, 2016b), and contributing to a
 reduction of 200-300 suicides annually.

 Government policy has prioritised 7-day hospital services because of concerns about increased
 risk of death amongst weekend admissions. We showed that this ‘weekend effect’ may be a
 statistical artefact (Anselmi, Meacock, Sutton J Health Serv Res Policy 2017), and questioned
 whether the required annual investment of £1-1.5bn is cost-effective (Meacock, Sutton, Health
 Econ 2015). Our work reduced Government focus on this policy, freeing resources for more
 effective investment.

 1.2.3 Better tailoring of health interventions to needs, including precision medicine

 COPD is a leading cause of death globally. We developed more effective inhaled therapies,
 targeting treatment using blood eosinophils to reduce exacerbations and pneumonia risk
 (Vestbo Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2015). We demonstrated effectiveness in ‘real world’
 populations that are socially deprived and have prevalent cardiovascular disease (Vestbo N
 Engl J Med 2016, Vestbo Lancet 2016 & 2017). Our findings changed clinical guidelines and
 transformed COPD care worldwide (ICS ‘Definitive multinational efficacy trials and pioneering
 ‘real-world’ evidence’).

 Depression is a health priority globally and collaborative care is one of the best evidence-based
 treatments. As well as demonstrating the effectiveness of collaborative care in depression and
 multimorbidity (Bower, Waheed BMJ 2015), our international collaborative analyses supported
 better targeting of treatment (Bower, Kontopantelis, Panagioti JAMA Psychiatry 2016).

 1.3 Strategic Framework

 We work to a new Faculty-wide strategic framework, with 3 Grand Challenges:

       Discovering novel biological, psychological, and social mechanisms

       Developing new approaches to prevention and early detection of disease

       Developing next generation person-centred therapies, interventions, and care pathways



                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our expertise in examining social determinants ensured that the Grand Challenges focussed on
 social mechanisms, and on care pathways through our expertise in health services research.
 Although our research has international impact, we work in the context of our region’s health
 problems. Deprived communities face barriers to accessing services along with poorer health
 outcomes. Our Salford Lung Study (Vestbo N Engl J Med 2016) received international
 recognition by conducting trials with these populations, generating investment and improving
 care in a deprived borough.

 Greater Manchester (GM) is leading new ways of improving population health, with a devolved
 budget of £6bn for 2.8 million citizens managed by the GM Health and Social Care Partnership
 (GMHSCP). We support GMHSCP by assessing patterns of disease and helping them to deploy
 effective ways of improving health (Peek, Sutton, Turner). We partner with the Chan School of
 Public Health (Harvard) to generate global lessons from this policy experiment.

 UoA2 is structured around three themes:

 (1) Epidemiology and Public Health (34.5 FTE)

 (2) Health Services and Policy (25.3 FTE)

 (3) Methodology and Data Analytics (25.8 FTE)

 Reflecting our multidisciplinary approach, our return comprises 89 (85.6 FTE) staff from 9 of the
 18 divisions within the Faculty of Biology, Medicine and Health (FBMH). FBMH was created in
 2016 through an ambitious merger of the Faculty of Life Sciences and the Faculty of Medical
 and Human Sciences. To facilitate effective working after the 2016 merger, we created cross-
 Faculty Research Domains to grow interdisciplinary research and build capacity (section 1.4).

 Interdisciplinary research is critical for our UoA, and staff are located to maximise their
 contribution. Some are located in methodological hubs (informatics, economics and biostatistics)
 to develop specialist expertise and provide career support. Others are located in clinical areas
 (e.g., musculoskeletal diseases) or in topic-driven centres (e.g., primary care, occupational
 health) to promote interdisciplinary work.

 To maximise impact, we have secured significant infrastructure funding to support a translational
 pathway from discovery through to large scale implementation (see Figure 1 and section 3).

 This includes:

       NIHR Biomedical Research Centre (BRC, £28.50m)

       Manchester Academic Health Science Centre (MAHSC)

       Centre for Epidemiology Versus Arthritis (£6.09m)

       NIHR Patient Safety Translational Research Centre (PSTRC, £12.58m)

       NIHR School for Primary Care Research (SPCR, £2.46m)

       NIHR Applied Research Collaborative (ARC-GM, £8.99m)

       NIHR Policy Research Units in Older People and Frailty (PRU-OPF, £2.49m) and
        Commissioning (PRUComm, £2.45m)




                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Figure 1: Relationships between our themes, domains, and the translational
 infrastructure




                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3.1 Theme 1 - Epidemiology and Public Health

 We discover the distribution and determinants of health and disease, to better target
 interventions to improve health and reduce inequalities. Core areas include:

       genomic and precision medicine (Lamb, Lophatananon, Muir, Ollier, Payne, Guo)
       musculoskeletal disease (Dixon, Felson, Hyrich, Lunt, McBeth, O’Neill, Symmons)
       cancer (Evans, McCabe, Renehan)
       addiction (Jones, Millar)
       respiratory diseases (Simpson, Vestbo)
       circulatory diseases (Kontopantelis, Rutter, Vail)
       diabetes (Kontopantelis, Rutter)
       dermatology (Lunt, Vail)
       mental health and suicide (Kapur, Webb)
       occupational, environmental and public health (van Tongeren, Verstappen, Verma).

 To discover new approaches to multimorbidity we host a cross-Faculty multimorbidity network
 (Peek). We also tackle health inequalities including upstream interventions for disease
 prevention (Kontopantelis, Munford, Verma, Webb). Theme 1 researchers have extensive
 links into clinical medicine (UoA1).

 Evans established the frequency of Lynch syndrome in endometrial cancer (Evans PLoS Med
 2020), generating a NICE recommendation for universal testing - 220 women with endometrial
 cancer are now identified annually with Lynch syndrome (plus three family members),
 empowering 1,000 people annually to reduce their risk. Our IBIS-I & II studies (Evans Lancet
 Oncol 2015, Lancet 2020) informed NICE guidelines on tamoxifen, raloxifene and anastrozole
 chemoprevention. We deliver real-time breast cancer risk stratification (BC-Predict) and there
 are advanced plans for roll out in the GM breast screening programme to enable the offer of
 anastrozole chemoprevention in 20% of the population. We conduct work on obesity and cancer
 in the UoM Cancer Research Beacon (Renehan Lancet Oncology 2015), highlighting the need
 for gender and age-specific strategies to prevent obesity-related cancers.

 To tackle health inequalities, we partner with the Northern Health Science Alliance (NHSA),
 linking universities, NHS Trusts and Academic Health Science Networks (AHSNs) covering 16m
 people. We have demonstrated how health inequalities drive economic inequalities - people are
 39% more likely to lose jobs following ill-health in the North. We engaged with policymakers to
 drive action (Munford), including six Parliamentary questions (2019), three citations in House of
 Commons debates (2019), press releases by GM Mayor and Newcastle City Council Leader
 (2018), and evidence to the Treasury Select Committee (2020) enquiry into ‘The Economic
 Impact of Coronavirus’. The NHSA and other partners launched the Northern Universities’ Public
 Health Alliance (NUPHA) to tackle regional health inequalities (Verma).

 1.3.2 Theme 2 - Health Services and Policy

 Theme 1 informs thinking in Theme 2 about service delivery and policy change to improve
 outcomes and reduce inequalities. We work closely with colleagues in the Manchester Centre for
 Health Psychology (French, Armitage UoA4), psychiatry (Shaw, Appleby, Abel, Husain UoA4),
 economics (Andrews, Banks UoA16), and nursing (Bee, Lovell UoA3). Collaborations with
 Humanities (Walshe, McBride, Rubery, UoA17) are in section 1.5. Core areas include:

       Workforce (Checkland, Spooner)
       Quality and safety (Campbell, Elliott, Esmail)
       Person-centred care (Blakeman, Bower, Sanders)
       Service organisation and funding (Birch, Meacock, Sutton)
       Social care (Morciano)


                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We disseminated evidence on addiction-related deaths (Jones, Millar Addiction 2016) to the
 House of Commons Health and Social Care Select Committee Review of Drug Policy (2019).
 We stimulated US debates in the New York Times and Washington Post (ICS ‘Stimulating
 debate, changing practice and influencing policy in tackling drug-related deaths’).

 Using our translational infrastructure (Figure 1), our PSTRC created a dashboard of indicators of
 medication safety and delivered this in front-line care (Brown, Peek PLoS Med 2020). We
 reduced hazardous prescribing by 28% in Salford (population 235,595), before wider
 implementation through ARC-GM across the conurbation’s population of 2.8m people. To
 improve safety in mental health, we created a social enterprise to deliver suicide prevention
 training worldwide (ICS ‘Risk assessment and suicide prevention‘).

 Academy of Medical Sciences highlighted the challenge of multimorbidity, and we delivered trials
 of new care pathways (Blakemore, Hann, Reeves, Waheed BMJ 2015, Bower Lancet 2018).

 We pioneered digital tools to allow patients to track symptoms and share decision-making in
 mental health and rheumatology (Dixon, McBeth, Ainsworth) in interdisciplinary work with
 Computer Science (Sanders). We developed Cloudy with a Chance of Pain, engaging
 thousands in ‘citizen science’ to track weather and pain, attracting international media attention
 (Dixon, Ainsworth Nature Digital Medicine 2019).

 1.3.3 Theme 3 - Methodology and Data Analytics

 We developed advanced research methods to understand the determinants of disease and
 discern the impacts of treatment, service and policy interventions.

 Core areas include:

       Analysis of large databases (section 3) (Gittins, Kontopantelis, Lunt, van Staa, Webb)
       Advanced modelling for causal inference (Berzuini, Guo, Sperrin, Sutton, Turner)
       Health technology assessment to support innovation (Payne, Elliott)
       Research methods using smartphone and personal sensors (Ainsworth, Dixon)
       Informatics infrastructure for data analysis at scale (Ainsworth, Peek, van Staa).

 Valid causal inference is critical to our Grand Challenges. Our biostatisticians (Berzuini, Guo,
 Vail) have developed new Bayesian approaches to Mendelian randomisation analysis which
 outperform standard methods (Berzuini, Guo Biostatistics 2020), as well as advances in causal
 mediation analysis (Dunn, Emsley HTA 2015).

 Our economists have developed new methods for policy evaluation and natural experiments
 such as synthetic controls (Turner, Sutton Health Econ 2016) and generalised synthetic
 controls (Sutton Health Services Research 2020), to support evaluations of national policies:

       Advancing Quality incentive scheme for hospitals (Turner, Sutton N Engl J Med 2014)
       Extended access GP services (Whittaker PLoS Med 2016)
       NHS Vanguard integrated care covering 5 million (Morciano, Sutton Health Policy 2020)

 This expertise is also critical to our support for local decision-makers tackling regional health
 priorities. Our close working with the GMHSCP (Sutton, Turner, Coleman) has supported the
 evaluation of devolution, including the GM Population Health Outcomes Framework and the
 Benefits Realisation Dashboard to track regional performance, and exploration of variation in
 outcomes across different localities (Wilson).




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3.4 Future research strategy

 Our strategy is to transition to a genuine ‘Learning Health System’ (section 4.3.4), transforming
 care regionally and acting as a beacon for developments nationally and internationally. Our
 Learning Health System will make more rapid links between the insights garnered from live data
 to achieve real-world translational impact thereby improving population health. This will be
 achieved by continuous analysis of data (via routine care, alongside bespoke research data) to
 monitor outcomes, identify new care developments, and implement evidence-based changes. To
 deliver such a system requires access to rich data, an ability to implement radical changes at
 scale, and innovative methods to evaluate impact rapidly and rigorously.

 Throughout this statement, we have described the building blocks for such a system:

       Improving timely access to routinely collected data, through our Connected Health Cities
        and Local Health and Care Record Exemplars (section 4.3.4)

       Enhancing routinely collected data with additional data from patients (see section 1.3.2)

       Working with communities to build trust in data gathering (section 4.2.2.3)

       Developing a translational implementation pipeline (Figure 1)

       Developing new approaches for:

            o   testing causal relationships through rigorous non-randomised methods for large-
                scale evaluations (section 1.3.3)

            o   conducting trials in patient populations with greater health needs (ICS ‘Definitive
                multinational efficacy trials and pioneering ‘real-world’ evidence’)

 Our strategy is to integrate these building blocks into a coherent Learning Health System. We
 will enrich the system with data oriented to the needs of our patients, including quality of life.
 This will be achieved with better digital tools and engagement with the public.

 Working with the University’s Global Inequalities Beacon, our work will continue to focus on
 communities with the greatest health and care needs locally, nationally and internationally. We
 will undertake research with under-researched populations, engaging them effectively in the
 entire research and impact process and developing interventions to improve outcomes for these
 disadvantaged groups. Our focus will also be on problems where the starkest inequalities exist;
 for instance, clusters of multiple long-term conditions.

 We will continue to innovate in service delivery and health policy to identify new approaches to
 prevention and treatment. Working closely with regional and national decision makers, and with
 patients and communities, our teams will co-produce innovations meeting their needs. We will
 utilise our expertise in service redesign and focus on high priority areas such as the use of digital
 technology to better co-ordinate care, and the development of integrated care for frail patients.

 A key focus will be developing and testing innovations that contribute to long-term sustainability.
 Some innovations will focus on the demand-side, ensuring that populations are supported to
 reduce their reliance on services. Other innovations will be supply-side solutions, increasing
 efficiency through new configurations of workforce, finance and organisations to offer
 populations the right care in the right place at the right time.

 Working with Health Innovation Manchester, we will create a clear translational pipeline from
 innovation to realisation of benefit, improving population health and reducing inequality. A key
 goal is to integrate evaluation and implementation through enhancements to research design, to
 reduce delays between the development of innovations and delivery to patients.

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.4 Research Domains

 FBMH created eight research domains, to co-ordinate research and impact and encourage
 collaborations. Two domains are of particular relevance to UoA2: Applied Health and Digital
 Health. The principal successes that they achieved are described below.

 1.4.1 Applied Health Domain

 This domain (lead Sutton) integrated work in applied health research across the University,
 linking epidemiology and relevant clinical disciplines with health services research and health
 informatics.

 The Domain has driven the following successes:

       Developing capacity in implementation science, enabling renewal of the NIHR ARC-GM
        (£5.9m) and appointment of a senior lecturer in implementation science (Wilson) in
        2019.

       Supporting collaborations within the University, including the Manchester Interdisciplinary
        Centre for Research on Ageing (MICRA, O’Neill), as well as the Cathie Marsh, Cancer,
        and Work and Equalities Institutes. The collaboration with MICRA supported award of the
        NIHR OPF-PRU led by Todd (UoA3) (Bower, O’Neill, section 3)

       Supporting the interdisciplinary centres Institute of Health Policy and Organisation
        (Checkland), Thomas Ashton Institute (van Tongeren) and Manchester Environmental
        Research Institute (van Tongeren, section 1.5).

 1.4.2 Digital Health domain

 This domain (lead Peek) co-ordinates our capabilities in engineering and methods for digital
 health (through the School of Computer Science and Engineering UoA11, and membership of
 the Alan Turing Institute), and strengths in digital health research through the MRC Health
 eResearch Centre (HeRC, Ainsworth), PSTRC (Campbell, Kapur, Peek, Sanders, Webb),
 BRC (Evans, Peek, Vestbo) and ARC-GM (Peek).

 The Domain has driven the following successes:

       Christabel Pankhurst Institute for Health Technology, a £25m investment to
        capitalise on excellence in digital health and advanced materials, with the Faculty of
        Science and Engineering (section 3).

       Health Data Research UK (HDRUK) Better Care Northern Partnership, a substantive
        HDRUK site. This collaboration uses our infrastructure to generate actionable insights
        from data to serve the needs of 16m people (van Staa).

       Development of the GM Local Health and Care Record and GM-wide infrastructure to
        improve how the NHS and its partners share information securely (section 4.3.4).

 Peek leads our contribution to the University Digital Futures programme, working with
 colleagues from Humanities and Computer Science.

 1.5 Interdisciplinary Research

 Tackling population health requires an interdisciplinary approach. Our research involves a wide
 variety of disciplines within health, including economics, informatics (see section 4) and
 behavioural sciences. We collaborate beyond health, including computer science (Peek), law
 (Sanders) and health and environmental sciences (van Tongeren). We feed into UoM Global

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Inequalities Research Beacon (e.g., Verma was Director of WHO Collaborating Centre in Health
 Indicators). We publish in journals in 231 different subject areas (Scopus).

 To facilitate an interdisciplinary approach, we created a new Institute of Health Policy and
 Organisation (IHPO), representing a collaboration between STEM, social sciences and
 humanities (REF5a section 2iii). IHPO (Checkland, Anselmi) brings together researchers from
 our Faculty and the wider University (especially Humanities) with interests in organisation and
 workforce (Spooner); governance, leadership and regulation (Allen); and health in a wider
 context (Kontopantelis, Munford). IHPO has facilitated collaborations with Chandola (UoA21)
 on North vs. South regional disparities (Kontopantelis, Sperrin J Epidemiol Community Health
 2017) and the impact of the NHS Diabetes Prevention Programme on disadvantaged
 communities (Whittaker, Cotterill Diabetes Med 2020).

 IHPO has three aims (a) developing interdisciplinary collaboration (b) capacity building (c)
 building a strong external identity. Since 2019, IHPO has helped capture £7.3m funding from
 NIHR and other funders and provides ‘seed-corn’ initial funding to support future bids.

 Our staff contribute expertise to other interdisciplinary centres.

 The Thomas Ashton Institute (TAI) is a collaboration with the Health and Safety Executive
 (HSE), to understand workplace exposures that lead to ill-health (van Tongeren). TAI has
 engaged with 58 companies representing 15 different sectors (including academia, construction,
 energy, engineering, government, transport, health and manufacturing). We deliver The Health
 and Occupation Research Network (THOR) on occupational disease. The Discovering Safety
 Programme aims to improve health and safety globally (funded by the Lloyds Register
 Foundation £10m) and we secured funding for Phase 2, with Phase 1 informing HSE guidance.
 Our ‘trailblazer’ Cabinet Office funded projects were considered in evidence to the Public
 Accounts Select Committee (2019).

 Manchester Environmental Research Institute (MERI) leads work on environmental effects
 (especially pollution) on human health, including cognition and brain health (van Tongeren) with
 colleagues in Humanities and Engineering. Through MERI we are linked into the Manchester
 Urban Observatory and contribute to studies of environmental determinants (traffic pollution,
 indoor air, occupation) of a range of outcomes (cognition, chronic morbidity, reproductive
 health). We collaborate in several European projects (e.g., Exposome Project for Health and
 Occupational Research).

 In the Manchester Urban Institute (MUI), we lead on health and wellbeing (Verma) with
 colleagues from across all three Faculties and external stakeholders.

 1.6 Achieving impact

 Our institutional environment statement (see REF5a section 2) outlines our focus on impact,
 where we were first in Europe in the 2018 THE University Impact Rankings.

 Within UoA2, we provide support (implementation science through our PSTRC and ARC-GM)
 and incentives (incorporating impact into staff reviews). Dedicated Impact Ambassadors link
 impact to strategy, signpost opportunities, improve impact case visibility, and review impact, all
 overseen by the University Research Impact Group. We provide impact resources and signpost
 researchers to support - the Business Engagement Team, Innovation Factory, and
 policy@manchester connecting researchers with policymakers.

 We use three mechanisms for impact.

 The first is a ‘pipeline’ from discovery through efficacy testing to implementation (Figure 1). We
 have the full range of infrastructure along this pipeline to drive impact from development to
 implementation, such as our SMASH medication safety system (section 1.3.2).

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To maximise the effectiveness of this pipeline, our ARC-GM is embedded in HInM, the local
 Academic Health Science Network. HInM aims to facilitate the seamless delivery of research
 and encourage integration of regional research and innovation systems, ‘spreading innovation at
 pace and scale’. Wilson sits on HInM’s Qualification Committee, which prioritises innovation
 activities, whilst others provide evaluation expertise (Whittaker, Bower, Kontopantelis).

 Examples of this pipeline include:

       Our ICS ‘ASPIRE™’ used machine learning to detect undiagnosed fractures in patients
        with osteoporosis and has recently been implemented in the NHS.

 The second major mechanism is through close working with decision-makers, using our
 advanced data analytics and routinely collected data to support decisions (section 4).

       Our ICS ‘Radical reorganisation of trauma services’ demonstrated how analysis of
        routinely collected data can support service redesign and reduce mortality.

 The third mechanism is engagement with policymakers, especially via our PRUs. This depends
 on the development of long-term relationships to encourage open communication and debate.
 PRUComm (Checkland) organises meetings under Chatham House Rules to facilitate robust
 discussion with senior policymakers, whilst IHPO hosts ‘away days’ for senior civil servants.

       We evaluated Vanguards integrated care (£389m, covering 5m people), identifying the
        best models of integration (Morciano, Checkland, Stokes, Sutton Health Policy 2020).

 1.7 Open data

 In line with University strategies, we are committed to an open research environment through
 consistent sharing of research materials. In a joint initiative, HInM and BRC have created
 ‘metadata’ catalogues of data, to optimise access and encourage collaboration.

 The GM Connected Health City (section 4) established a Trustworthy Research Environment,
 gaining ISO 27001 and NHS DSP Toolkit certifications. This is available for the whole institution
 through Restricted Data Service.

 We emphasise use of data to improve health but acknowledge confidentiality issues. We
 encouraged debates through our research and engagement activities (Hassan, Peek J Med
 Internet Res 2018). Our Centre for Epidemiology Versus Arthritis established infrastructure for
 data sharing for research, consistent with consent and public expectations. These principles are
 implemented in innovations such as Cloudy with a Chance of Pain.

 We utilise datasets such as the Clinical Practice Research Datalink and created a repository of
 reproducible code lists to support replication (Kontopantelis, Reeves PLoS One 2014).

 1.8 Research integrity

 The Faculty Research Governance Team works across UoM to support research in the NHS,
 acting on behalf of the University as Research Governance Sponsor to ensure that all research
 meets the UK Policy Framework for Health and Social Care Research.

 Within the University, the Faculty team work alongside the Research Governance, Ethics and
 Integrity Team to advance the Research Integrity agenda and (through the UoM Code of Good
 Research Practice) ensure alignment with the principles outlined in the Universities UK (UUK)
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity.

 UoA2 have introduced research integrity and GDPR training for all staff and has instituted a new
 ethical approval system during the REF period to support these activities.

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 2.1 Summary

 Since REF2014 we have developed our UoA to provide expertise across the full translational
 pathway from discovery to implementation, and we have doubled the size of our return. We aim
 to recruit and nurture the best staff in disciplines relevant to our three themes, with a focus on
 areas of need identified by stakeholders (such as NIHR and GMHSCP), including clinical
 academics in primary care; social care; implementation science; and methodology (economics,
 statistics, informatics).

 2.2 Underpinning staffing strategy and staff development

 Our approach to researcher development is summarised in Figure 2.

 Figure 2: Faculty support across the researcher development continuum




 The Centre for Academic and Researcher Development (CARD) supports development of
 academic staff and early career researchers, while Research Business Support Services
 (RBSS) support research grant management.

 The Faculty Researcher Development Group co-ordinates activity to align researcher
 development to our Faculty Strategy and ensure equity of access to staff. Faculty strategy
 encompasses the principles of the Researcher Development Concordat (UoM was awarded
 European Commission’s HR Excellence in Research badge, retained since 2011). This
 recognises the comprehensive support through (a) Faculty researcher development teams (b)
 professional and support services (c) our concordat implementation plan.



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The strategy incorporates:

       Assessment of staff views: through staff surveys, we showed 93% satisfaction in 2019.
        Data are fed back to the Research Staff Strategy Group.

       Extended contracts: we implemented a policy for researchers with greater than 4 years’
        service, with 3 months’ salary beyond the statutory period for career development.

       Redeployment: we use redeployment to bridge funding gaps. Our Extended Access
        Policy (flagged in our HR Excellence in Research award renewal 2017) maintains
        resources for 12 months post-contract.

       Staff development: we have an explicit statement of staff expectations and an extensive
        induction process, providing 10 days development annually, a catalogue of >1000
        training opportunities, and annual performance and development reviews.

       We run University-wide events including: Annual Research Staff conference and
        ‘Manchester Gold’ mentoring.

       Our ‘Investing in Success’ funding supports career development. Additionally, we provide
        conference and ‘carer support’ funds.

       We reward staff through annual promotions, ensuring parity of esteem across pathways
        and supporting career-breaks and part-time working. Applications are supported by
        promotion workshops and ‘champions’.

 2.2.1 Centre for Academic and Researcher Development (CARD)

 25% of our return are early-career researchers (ECRs), highlighting the robust support provided
 by CARD (Figure 2) which includes:

       A foundation-level graduate training programme.

       The researcher development programme provides intermediate level training to
        maximise outputs and impact.

       A new academics and fellows programme, leading to Fellowship of the Higher Education
        Academy.

       The 2-year Faculty Leadership Programme to develop future leaders.

       Faculty Research Staff Representatives Forum to promote staff interests at all levels.

 CARD supported 51 promotions during the REF period, with the success rate higher in 2019
 (88%) than in 2015 (81%), including 16 to Chair, 10 to Reader, 18 to senior lecturers/research
 fellow and seven to research fellow, alongside eight senior appointments.

 Below, we detail these developments and how they align to our strategy.

 2.2.2 Epidemiology and Public Health

 Key promotions included Dixon (Chair to lead the Versus Arthritis Research Centre), Webb
 (Chair; PSTRC theme lead), Jones (Senior Lecturer), Lunt, Lamb (Readers), Verstappen
 (Senior Research Fellow), Hyrich, McBeth, Rutter, Renehan (Chair) and Verma (Chair and
 Division lead). van Tongeren (Chair) and van der Veer (Senior Lecturer) were new
 appointments.

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2.3 Health Services and Policy

 Key promotions in this period included Checkland (Chair, lead for PRUComm), Millar (Chair)
 and Sanders (Chair; PSTRC theme lead). We also strengthened our mid-career researcher
 cohort with several promotions to Senior Research Fellow/Senior Lecturer (Anselmi, Meacock,
 Coleman, Jones, Panagioti and new appointment Morciano).

 2.2.4 Methodology and Data Analytics

 We strengthened our leadership through the appointment of Peek (Chair Lead for Digital Health
 domain), van Staa (Chair) and promotion of Kontopantelis (Chair) and Brown (Senior Clinical
 Fellow). We continued to augment health economics through the appointment of Elliott.
 Retirements in biostatistics were managed through external appointment (Kirkham Chair) and
 promotion (Reeves, Vail Chairs) as well as appointments (Sutton C) and the promotion of a
 cohort of senior lecturers/fellows (Cotterill, Geifman, Guo, Hann, Sergeant, Sperrin). Wider
 appointments in AI (Yau, Kaski, UoA11) are complementary.

 2.5 Supporting ECRs through infrastructure

 A key ambition from REF2014 was to secure longer-term infrastructure funding (section 3). As
 well as providing a platform for research and impact, infrastructure provides a rich environment
 for ECRs. SPCR funding supported capacity building in the priority area of primary care. This
 occurred through funded fellowships supporting rapid career development, such as
 Kontopantelis, who was supported by an SPCR fellowship before promotion to Chair in Data
 Sciences. We also used ‘seed-corn’ funding to support ECRs between awards to maximise
 success in competitive schemes, prior to baseline positions. For example, Munford used SPCR
 ‘seed-corn’ to apply for an MRC fellowship, before securing a permanent position. McMillan
 used SPCR project funding to support an NIHR advanced Fellowship, while Spooner used the
 same project funding to support larger grant success and a role in ARC-GM. These successes
 supported our continued membership of SPCR in the 2019 competition.

 To address staff retention and career development, our methodology centres have implemented
 funding models which centralise funding across multiple grants requiring specialist expertise.
 This funding provides longer-term (3-5 year) contracts from a pooled resource, supporting up to
 six staff in each centre and enhancing progression.

 2.6 Supporting interdisciplinary research

 2.6.1 Institute of Health Policy and Organisation

 IHPO established a Researcher Development Network to support ECRs through initiatives such
 as seed-corn grants, funding for international collaborations, and workshops and masterclasses.
 These led to seven applications, and funding with Humanities (Walshe, Rubery UoA17) led by
 Spooner (NIHR £800k) and Allen (NIHR £645k). The ‘Pipeline’ events saw academic staff
 (including international visitors) developing ideas with researchers into papers. PhD students
 and ECRs are actively involved in the workshops held at the bi-annual Organisational Behaviour
 in Healthcare Conference, with students awarded bursaries for the last three conferences.

 2.6.2 Integrated Interdisciplinary Innovations in Healthcare Sciences Hub

 We used £5.5m UoM investment over five years for this development, designed to link data
 sciences with public health and clinical medicine. Research-led teaching provides a platform for
 open access courses, teaching and resources for PhD students and ECRs. The Hub aims to
 create the next generation of researchers and research-trained health professionals, working
 alongside the Manchester Doctoral College (responsible for oversight of all doctoral training and
 researcher development across UoM) and Centres for Doctoral Training. Since 2018, the Hub
 has generated over £1m of research funding and £1m of teaching income.

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.7 Supporting clinical academics

 Clinical academics are additionally supported through the Integrated Clinical Academic Training
 (ICAT) programme. ICAT is a partnership between UoM, Health Education North West and the
 NIHR Trainees Coordinating Centre. Clinical trainees have opportunities within our array of
 world-class research facilities from biomedical to population health.

 SPCR is an exemplar for our clinical academic strategy. With research capacity in primary care
 being low, but a priority for funders, we invested in a range of capacity building.

       With Health Education North West, we support a programme for GP Academic Clinical
        Fellowships (ACFs). In addition to success with national competition posts, we
        established two local ACFs. Over four years, we had 11 GP ACFs.

       We have secured NIHR In-Practice Fellowships for three GPs starting an academic
        career.

       We moved three GPs onto PhD programmes with Wellcome, NIHR and Cancer
        Research UK funding.

       We supported postdoctoral development, through NIHR Clinical Lecturers and their
        transition to permanent academic posts: Blakeman (Senior Lecturer), Brown (Wellcome
        Research Fellowship), McMillan (NIHR Advanced Fellowship) and Spooner (ARC-GM).

 2.8 Fellowship Academy

 The Faculty Fellowship Academy helps researchers gain external fellowships, with support from
 initial planning to interview. Fellowship Academy Clinics and a Fellows Network supports
 application development, drawing on the expertise of funder panels and rigorous peer-review.

 During the REF period, we have secured 16 fellowships, including NIHR In-Practice Fellowships,
 MRC Clinical (Jani) and Skills Development Fellowships (Stokes, Munford, Anselmi, Hassan),
 Wellcome Clinical Career Development (Brown) and NIHR Advanced Fellowships (McMillan).
 Additionally, Presidential Research Fellows (Hodkinson, Turner, Wilkinson, Zghebi) are a
 UoM scheme providing 3-year support to promising ECRs for development and external
 applications.

 2.9 Research students

 We awarded 120 PhD degrees during the REF2021 period compared to 65 during the REF2014
 period. We maintained a similar ratio of PhDs awarded per FTE (1.40 versus 1.56 in REF2014)
 despite the substantially larger return of ECRs.

 Postgraduate research funding includes MRC, NIHR, ESRC, EPSRC, Wellcome and Versus
 Arthritis. The President's Doctoral Scholar Award, started in 2012 via an investment of >£2.5m,
 supports international and Home/EU students. We awarded PhDs to home (77%), EU (10%) and
 overseas (13%) students.

 The Manchester Doctoral College oversees all aspects of the postgraduate research student
 journey. Students have access to funding for conferences and society membership. A network of
 representatives supports peer integration and encourages dialogue between students and the
 Doctoral Academy Management Group. Students are allocated an academic Advisor, acting in a
 pastoral role, and to a designated Tutor to support progress. PRES results showed satisfaction
 with supervisory contact (93%), access to specialist resources (83%) and professional
 development (87%).



                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.9.1 Student training, support and engagement

 The Doctoral Academy Training Programme (through CARD) ensures generic skills
 development, timely completion, and employability. All students identify development needs and
 undertake training and participate in a broader programme via the University Learning and
 Development Unit or the library. To improve online training UoM funding (£5.5m) supported the
 Integrated Interdisciplinary Healthcare Science Hub (section 2.6).

 Since 2014 we have significantly expanded inclusion of PGR students on Divisional, School and
 Faculty-level committees, and committees of UKRI funded programmes. Our Doctoral Academy
 Graduate Society hosts public engagement activities and networking opportunities. Each School
 has a number of postgraduate prizes, as well as PGR Student of the Year awards at School,
 Faculty and University level. UoA2 students have won a range of prizes, including ‘Best
 Contribution to PGR Environment 2020’, and best student presentations at British Academy of
 Audiology Conference (2018) and British Society of Gerontology Annual Conference (2018)
 Stirling Award.

 We prioritise wellbeing, including PGR representatives with a remit for mental health and the use
 of an online ‘Pulse-Check’ for self-assessment. Office for Students funding (£150k) facilitates
 monitoring of mental health and trigger points and promotes self-help. Furthermore, we are a
 partner with the GMHSCP, offering an integrated approach to support via the university and
 NHS. In 2018-2019 we established a ‘PGR Parents’ and ‘PGR Partners’ support groups.

 2.9.2 Supervisor eligibility and training

 Each student has a primary supervisor and at least one co-supervisor to provide comprehensive,
 interdisciplinary support. Supervisory teams include a mix of experienced supervisors and ECRs
 to build our cohort of supervisors. New supervisors must initially act as a co-supervisor, until
 they have supervised through to completion. The Faculty New Academics and Fellows
 Programme provides training in supervision, and we provide all supervisors with support on
 supervisory policy, recruitment, managing relationships and supporting development.

 2.9.3 Epidemiology and Public Health

 We offer an outstanding research environment for PhD students in public health and
 epidemiology (including the Chinese Scholarship Council and the Ugandan Cancer Registry).
 We are considered the pre-eminent group internationally for researching the aetiology of
 musculoskeletal disorders and effective treatments. We lead the UK Research in
 Musculoskeletal Epidemiology partnership, and support PhDs in work-related ill-health and
 environmental epidemiology.

       Pierce (MRC) published papers evidencing our ICS ‘Stimulating debate, changing
        practice and influencing policy in tackling drug-related deaths’ (Pierce, Millar Drug
        Alcohol Depend 2015; Pierce, Jones, Millar Addiction 2016)

       Walter (MRC) published work from his doctoral research on adverse outcomes following
        discharge into the community from inpatient psychiatric care (Walter, Webb JAMA
        Psychiatry 2017 and Lancet Psychiatry 2019).

 2.9.4 Health Services and Policy Research

 Our extensive NIHR infrastructure supports significant capacity building in strategic areas.
 PSTRC has a vibrant PhD programme, from 2017 allocating around £1m for capacity building.
 This programme has been extended through co-funding arrangements with SPCR, Christie NHS
 Trust, School for Social Care Research, and UoM. Our infrastructure funding also supports post-
 doctoral opportunities, including 3 ‘launching fellowships’ from SPCR to support external
 applications.

                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       PhD student Ohrnberger was a Presidential Doctoral Scholar who published a highly
        cited analysis of the link between physical and mental health (Ohrnberger, Sutton Soc
        Sci Med 2017)

       Meacock published influential analyses of a key Government policy around 7 days
        services (Anselmi, Meacock, Sutton J Health Serv Res Policy 2017, Meacock,
        Sutton, Health Econ 2015, section 1.2.2).

 2.9.5 Methodology and Data Analytics

 Capacity building in informatics and data analytics is another priority area. We have built a PhD
 cohort, through funding from MRC HeRC, Connected Health Cities and the Wellcome funded
 HDRUK/Turing PhD programme (see sections 3 and 4), and cross-cutting PhD programmes with
 our PSTRC and ARC-GM infrastructure.

       Martin (MRC) published his studentship findings, proposing an alternative methodology
        for clinical prediction models (Martin, Peek, Sperrin Stat Med 2018)

       Williams conducted a timely analysis of COVID-19’s impact on primary care diagnoses
        during his studentship (Williams, Brown, Campbell, Kapur, Webb, Peek Lancet Public
        Health 2020, section 4.3.1).

 2.9.6 PhD Recruitment

 We have a robust process for students, including independent assessment of projects and
 supervisors by the Doctoral Academy, and panel interviews for competitive funding (where all
 receive Equality & Diversity and Unconscious Bias training). We recruit PhDs from the
 healthcare professions, and actively enable them to maintain their clinical competencies.

 2.9.7 Student progress and monitoring

 All research students engage with an online progression monitoring system (e-Prog), which
 provides milestones, engagement with training, progress and personal development, and
 structured supervisory feedback, all of which aids timely thesis submission.

 2.9.8 Careers and outputs

 Our UoM Careers Service helps students identify career pathways, while our funded
 programmes offer bespoke careers training events, networking events with industry and faculty-
 wide events though the Doctoral Academy Graduate Society. We ensure that students
 understand the importance of publishing (see examples of success above) and encourage
 theses in Journal Format. Presentations are encouraged in internal showcases and conferences.
 We provide training in communicating to wider audiences (e.g., ‘Pint of Science’, The
 Conversation.com).

 2.10 Equality, diversity and inclusivity (EDI)

 We align with the University strategy for advancing EDI, embedding inclusive practice and
 creating a structure that includes all staff and students in academic life. A Faculty Committee is
 chaired by the Associate Dean with wide-ranging representation including BAME, LGBTQ+ and
 Disabled Staff Networks with 18 Divisional EDI Champions who sit on Divisional Leadership
 Teams.

 Our commitment to EDI is evidenced by our engagement in the career advancement of female
 academics, through Athena SWAN, Project JUNO and Stellar HE. The School of Health
 Sciences (including the bulk of UoA2) achieved Athena SWAN Silver status (2018) and is
 preparing a Gold application. The review panel remarked that, despite significant restructuring,

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ‘sufficient action had been taken to ensure gender equality is embedded in the new structure’;
 and that ‘there was sufficient continuation and appropriate modification of its actions to address
 the key issues identified by the self-assessment and restructuring processes’.

 In conjunction with Athena SWAN, UoM has increased focus on race equality. Data on
 employment and progression are monitored annually and are almost 100% complete. UoM was
 initially one of only eight higher education institutions (in 2015) achieving Bronze Status for the
 Race Equality Charter, an award which was recently renewed. Esmail is a patron of the Race
 Equality Charter working to increase its profile and achieve equal status to the Athena SWAN
 Awards.

 We have dedicated resources to support disabled staff and are a Disability Confident employer,
 including a guaranteed interview scheme for applicants meeting essential job criteria. We are a
 Stonewall ‘Top 100 Employer’ for workplace LGBTQ inclusion (20th in 2018). Since 2019, 82%
 of the Faculty participants on the University Coaching Programme have been women and 26%
 identify as BAME. Coaching provision for disabled staff has been commissioned twice.

 FBMH launched the pilot flagship Inclusive Advocacy Programme, designed to support high-
 performing researchers from under-represented groups. A working group is currently addressing
 barriers faced by BAME individuals in achieving high status. Women in FBMH provides a
 support network, organising events promoting equality, diversity and inclusion, e.g., Confidence
 and Personal Impact workshops and International Women’s day (attended by 400 staff and
 students).

 2.10.1 Equality and Diversity in UoA2

 This REF period has seen significant numbers of appointments of women to senior positions,
 including Chair (Checkland, Elliott, Hyrich, Sanders, Verma), Reader (Lamb, Verstappen)
 and Senior Lecturer/Senior Research Fellow (Anselmi, Camacho, Carder, Coleman, Cotterill,
 Geifman, Humphreys, Jani, McDonagh, Meacock, Panagioti, van der Veer).

 There are female leads for the School of Health Sciences (Prof Kay Marshall, UoA3), Division
 (Verma) and Centres (Payne), as well as our interdisciplinary structures (Checkland, Verma).
 Fourteen per cent of our PGR cohort were from ethnic minorities.

 Our research includes work on ethnic minority research participation (Waheed) and LGBTQ
 access to services (Whittaker). Esmail was invited by the Chief Executive of the NHS to
 develop the Workforce Race Equality Standard (WRES) in 2014, the main mechanism for
 assessing NHS performance on race equality.

 Esmail served on the editorial committee for a special issue on racial inequality (BMJ 2019) and
 helped curate the exhibition at the RCGP on the contribution of ethnic minority doctors to
 general practice on the NHS 70th anniversary.

 Our Research Excellence Framework 2021 Code of Practice (2019) complies with EDI
 legislation and provides a transparent explanation of our approach for our REF2021 submission.




                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Our staff generated £156.5m in external research income from 85.6 FTE (including £13.6m
 REF4c funding). This compares to £48m REF2014.

 In terms of growth from REF2014, we standardised data on annual income per FTE assuming a
 100% return in both REF periods.

       In REF2014, 100% submission would have generated £227,650 per FTE.

       In REF2021, 100% submission generated £261,105 per FTE, an increase of 15%.

 Our main sources were UK Central government (mainly NIHR) £78m; Research Councils £19m;
 Research Charities £20m; UK industry and public corporations £16m; EU £6m.

 Grant funding listed in the remainder of section 3 refers to the total award to UoM.

 3.1 Research funding and strategies for generating research income

 A key ambition from 2014 was to secure larger grants and longer-term infrastructure funding, to
 maintain interdisciplinary teams to tackle our Grand Challenges, and provide a rich environment
 for ECRs and PhD students. We created a dedicated Research Strategy and Innovation Team to
 support applications for large grants.

 In line with this ambition, we generated 30 grant or infrastructure awards of more than £1m.
 These include awards from NIHR (BRC, CLAHRC, SPCR, ARC-GM, PSTRC, PRUs, RDS),
 MRC and UK Government. Figure 3 shows the links between our infrastructure and the wider
 research, innovation and health care environment.

 Our infrastructure funding included second (PSTRC, PRUComm) and third (NIHR
 ARC/CLAHRC, SPCR and RDS) tranches, indicating confidence among funders in our impact.

 Figure 3: UoA2 Infrastructure and links to the wider context




                                                                                         Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2 Externally funded infrastructure and large grants

 3.2.1 Epidemiology and Public Health

  Biomedical Research Centre                NIHR        £28.5m    Evans, Peek, Vestbo


 UoA2 staff lead three themes: ‘Cancer Prevention & Early Detection’ (Evans, Renehan);
 ‘Respiratory’ (Vestbo, Simpson); and Informatics’ (Peek). We also support ‘Musculoskeletal’
 (Felson, Thomson), ‘Dermatology’ (Lunt, Payne), and ‘Biomarker Platforms’ (Geifman).

  Centre for Epidemiology Versus            Versus      £5m       Dixon, Humphreys, Hyrich,
  Arthritis                                 Arthritis             Jani, Lunt, McBeth, O’Neill,
                                                                  Parkes, Sergeant, van der
                                                                  Veer, Verstappen


 The Centre has transformed care through patient cohorts to support better clinical decision-
 making (see ICS ‘Biologics registers for immune-mediated inflammatory diseases’).

  The National Drug Evidence Centre         PHE         £4.25m    Jones, Millar


 NDEC is responsible for the management of the National Drug Treatment Monitoring System
 (NTDMS) for Public Health England. The University of Manchester has been responsible for
 producing National Statistics from NDTMS since 2003.

  Other large grants in the Epidemiology and Public Health theme

  Title                                    Funder       Award      Staff

  Well North (area-level deprivation)      PHE          £9.25m     Verma

  THOR network                             HSE          £1.85m     van Tongeren

  The musculoskeletal data jigsaw          Nuffield     £1.46m     Dixon

  'SENSE-Cog’ sensory impairment           EU           £1.80m     Hann, Reeves

  Adult food allergies                     UK Gov       £1.84m     Guo, Verma

  Self-harm & violence in young people     EU           £814k      Webb

  Exposome project                         H2020        £656k      van Tongeren

  Research in COVID transmission           UK Gov       £460k      van Tongeren, Verma

  Epidemiological study of mineworkers     Rio Tinto    £543k      van Tongeren

  Stillbirth prevention in Africa          NIHR         £1.99m     Sutton, Camacho

  Drugs recovery payment by results        DoH          £999k      Jones, Donmall

  Psoriasis associated comorbidity         DoH          £2.03m     Symmons, Lunt, Rutter

  Evaluation of water fluoridation         NIHR         £1.18m     Sutton, Whittaker


                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2.2 Health Services and Policy Research

  School for Primary Care Research         NIHR        £2.5m     Bower, Campbell,
                                                                 Kontopantelis, Reeves,
                                                                 Checkland, Sanders


 We have been a member of this group of elite primary care departments since its inception in
 2006 and through three iterations, with the most recent re-designation in 2020. The School has a
 specific priority around capacity building (section 2.5) and development work to leverage
 external bids.

  Greater Manchester PSTRC                 NIHR        £5.9m     Campbell, Elliott, Kapur,
  (GM PSTRC)                                                     Peek, Sanders, Webb


 We received a second tranche of 5-year funding in 2017, following the initial £6m award (2012).
 PSTRC has a focus on the first translational gap, developing innovative products to improve
 safety. PSTRC has innovated through the use of creative arts (theatre, poetry) and public
 engagement (Citizens’ Juries). Our PSTRC is unique in having a Safety in Marginalised Groups
 Theme.

  ARC-GM                                   NIHR        £9m       Sutton, Peek, Bower, Wilson
                                                                 (led from UoA3)

  CLAHRC GM                                NIHR        £20m      Checkland, Sutton          (led
                                                                 from UoA17)


 ARC-GM was funded in 2018, following two previous CLAHRCs (last in 2014). ARC-GM is
 focussed on delivering research addressing regional and national challenges, translating
 findings into practice, and building research capacity.

  Policy Research Unit in                  NIHR        £1.7m     Checkland, Coleman, Sutton
  Commissioning and the Healthcare
  System PRUComm


 This unit is a collaboration between UoM, University of Kent and LSHTM. The PRU aims to
 provide timely evidence to inform Department of Health and Social Care policy on the health and
 social care systems and commissioning to maximise outcomes for patients. We have received
 two tranches of funding (in 2010 and 2019).

  Policy Research Unit Frailty and         NIHR        £2.5m     Bower, O’Neill
  Older People (OPF PRU)                                         (Lead from UoA3)


 This new policy research unit was funded in 2018 and iUoM, alongside Newcastle University and
 LSE. The PRU helps the Department of Health and Social Care make decisions about care of
 older people, through research into healthy ageing, the needs of older people and cost-effective
 care.




                                                                                          Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Other large grants in the Health Services and Policy Research theme (PI or Co-I)

  Title                                     Funder     Award     Staff

  Early diagnosis of liver disease          Innovate £854k       Payne

  Avoiding patient harm                     NIHR       £915k     Elliott, van Staa, Peek

  Diabetes prevention programme             NIHR       £1.98m    Sutton et al

  Vanguard programme                        DOH        £1.29m    Checkland, Sutton

  Understanding commissioning               NIHR       £1.07m    Sutton, Checkland

  Innovation, health and wealth             NIHR       £1.41m    Sutton

  Enhancing psychological interventions     NIHR       £1.73m    Bower, Wilson

  Healthy living diabetes                   NIHR       £750k     Cotterill, Elliott, Rutter

  Salford integrated care                   NIHR       £872k     Bower et al

  OCD treatment efficacy trial              NIHR       £1.80m    Bower, Roberts C

  Prevention of suicide in prison           NIHR       £1.19m    Carter, Davies

  Mental health care planning               NIHR       £1.55m    Davies, Bower

  Psoriasis stratification                  BAD        £1.40m    Payne


 3.2.3 Methodology and Data Analytics

 Our UoA has the following facilities:

         Institute for Data Science & AI (IDSAI, Guo, Peek)

 IDSAI acts as an access point to the UoM expertise in data science and AI and facilitates
 interactions between researchers and stakeholders, where real-world problems drive the
 methodology research agenda, providing a natural route to exploiting new approaches.

         Bede high performance computing platform

 We have access to Bede - the N8’s Power and GPU-based high-performance computing
 platform ideally suited to artificial intelligence and machine learning applications.

         Alan Turing Institute

 We joined as a partner (2017). Ainsworth, Guo, Muir, Peek and van Staa are Turing Fellows.

         Christabel Pankhurst Institute for Health Technology

 This £25m institute is led by UoM to maximise our strengths in digital health and advanced
 materials. It was launched by a £5m award from the Local Growth Fund, with UoM, Manchester
 Science Partnerships, Manchester University NHS Foundation Trust, and HInM.



                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         Manchester Clinical Trials Unit (CTU) (Elliott, Sutton C, Verma)

 We transferred the CTU from the Christie NHS Foundation Trust to UoM, to enhance our
 capability for conducting high-quality clinical research. The CTU employs 55 people, is
 registered by the UK Clinical Research Collaboration and is funded by NIHR, CRUK, UoM and
 HInM.

         North West e-Health

 North West e-Health uses routine health data for clinical trials, delivering the Salford Lung Study
 (sponsored by GSK) in COPD (Vestbo N Eng J Med 2016) and asthma (Vestbo Lancet 2017) in
 one of Greater Manchester’s most deprived boroughs.

  Other large grants in the Methodology and Data Analytics theme (PI or Co-I)

  Title                                     Funder       Award      Staff

  Connected Health Cities                   DoH          £3.99m     Ainsworth, van Staa, Dixon

  Research Design Service                   NIHR         £2.28m     Vail

  European medical information              EU           £870k      Ainsworth

  Actionable analytics in primary care      Wellcome £858k          Brown

  Risk prediction after MI                  EU           £710k      Peek, Martin

  Avoiding harm via safer prescribing       NIHR         £915k      Peek, van Staa, Elliott

  Improving antibiotic prescribing          NIHR         £916k      Van Staa, Elliott, Esmail

  The Wearable Clinic                       EPSRC        £1.18m     Ainsworth

  Assistance for psychological therapy      MRC          £1.28m     Ainsworth


 3.3 Large datasets supporting multiple research projects in UoA2

 Access to and capacity for handling large datasets is crucial for our work, and we play an active
 role in creating, using and sharing these datasets. Critical resources include:

 3.3.1 Epidemiology and Public Health

         British Society for Rheumatology Biologics Register for Rheumatoid Arthritis for
          monitoring drug safety in rheumatoid arthritis (Dixon, Hyrich, Lunt, Symmons)

         Biologics in Rheumatoid Arthritis Genetics & Genomics Study Syndicate of biologic
          therapy to evaluate response to treatment (Jani, Hyrich).

         BILAG Biologics Register of therapies for treatment of systemic lupus erythematosus.

         Norfolk Arthritis Register cohort of inflammatory polyarthritis (Humphreys, Lunt,
          Symmons, Verstappen)

         British Association of Dermatologists Biologics & Immunomodulators of long-term safety
          of biologic treatments for psoriasis (Lunt)


                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Greater Manchester Genomic Medicine Centre helps to recruit patients with rare
        diseases and cancer to the 100,000 Genomes Project.

       The EuroMyositis Registry, the world’s largest register of idiopathic inflammatory
        myopathies (Lamb, Ollier)

       Multi-centre Study of Self-harm in England of self-harm episodes (Kapur, Webb)

       UK Biobank. Ollier, Emeritus Professor was one of a small group to propose this cohort
        (Ollier Pharmacogenomics 2005). We used UK Biobank to explore:

       asthma (Simpson Lancet Respir Med 2019)
       breast cancer (Evans, Harkness Am J Hum Genet 2019)
       cognitive function (Ollier Nat Comm 2018)
       coronary artery disease (Rutter Nat Genet 2017)
       diabetes (Rutter Diabetes Care 2018)
       educational attainment (Ollier Nature 2016)
       psychiatric disorders (Rutter, Sperrin Nat Genet 2017)
       sleep (Dixon, Rutter Nat Comm 2016)

 3.3.2 Policy and health services research

       Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD). We have an institution-wide licence to
        one of the world’s largest primary care datasets, linked to hospital and mortality records.
        Kontopantelis is a member of CPRD’s Independent Scientific Advisory Committee
        (ISAC). We host a CPRD User Group for PhDs and ECRs facilitating numerous studies,
        including:

       antibiotic prescribing and infection (van Staa BMC Med 2020)
       cardiovascular disease (Sperrin, van Staa BMJ 2020)
       diabetes (Kontopantelis, Rutter Diabetes Care 2017)
       drug dependence (Millar PLoS Med 2019)
       epilepsy (Webb JAMA Neurol 2018)
       GP performance (Kontopantelis, Reeves. BMJ 2014)
       medication safety (Kontopantelis, Stocks BMJ 2015)
       self-harm & suicide (Kapur, Kontopantelis, Webb BMJ 2017)
       statin prescribing (van Staa BMJ 2016)

       Comprehensive Primary Care Dataset (Sutton, Turner). A collaboration between
        departments in the SPCR, we have curated these data since 2010 to investigate a
        variety of topics, including the role of financial incentives (Sutton J Health Econ 2018)

       Trauma Audit and Research Network (TARN). Supporting clinical audit, TARN has the
        largest database in Europe, with 220 hospitals submitting 100,000 trauma cases annually
        (see ICS ‘Radical reorganisation of trauma services’)

       The Health and Occupation Research network (THOR) surveillance network, to
        monitor incidence and trends in work-related illness in the UK and Republic of Ireland
        (Carder Br J Derm 2015; Agius, Gittins Occup Med 2015). THOR provides the Health
        and Safety Executive with the only medically verified data on incidence, trends and
        sickness absence burden of occupational disease and work-related ill health, at a
        national and regional level, and within specific industrial sectors.




                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 From REF2014, two key platforms to achieve our strategy are:

       enhancing our internal and external research partnerships and stakeholder engagement

       delivering impact from our research by maximising translation and implementation

 4.1 Internal and external research partnerships and stakeholder engagement

 We have co-authored papers with researchers from 137 different countries, including 329 papers
 with 16/20 top-ranked universities (THE World University Rankings), and 348 papers with 19/20
 top 20 universities (Academic Ranking of World Universities Shanghai).

 We have strong links with Peking University Health Science Center, China. Anselmi, Stokes
 and Turner received UoM GCRF seed-corn funding in 2018 to extend collaborations and
 develop a programme supporting sustainable health in China. The teams conducted bi-
 directional visits throughout 2018 and joint PhD supervision. van Tongeren has led
 collaborations with the China National Center for chronic disease, Beijing Normal University and
 China Health Economics Association, including an MRC grant with these partners (van
 Tongeren, Peek).

 We also have extensive links to the University of Melbourne, Australia in health economics,
 including a part-time appointment (Sutton) and regular visits (Meacock, Munford). Additional
 collaboration has been developed with the Institute of Health Economics (Alberta, Canada), for
 the evaluation of specialised drugs using real-world data (Meacock) and joint PhD supervision.

 As well as these strategic partnerships, we are investigators in major international studies:

 4.1.1 Multinational clinical trials:

       ‘Triple therapy’ for COPD (Vestbo Lancet 2016, 2017, 2018)
       Effectiveness in COPD patients with comorbid disease (Vestbo Lancet 2016)
       Aspirin for hereditary colorectal cancer (Evans Lancet 2020)
       Anastrozole for breast cancer prevention (Evans Lancet 2020)
       Endometrial scratching for in-vitro fertilisation (Wilkinson J N Engl J Med 2019)
       Testing and mortality risk in colorectal cancer (Renehan JAMA 2018)

 4.1.2 International observational cohort studies:

       Lung-function trajectories in COPD (Vestbo N Eng J Med 2015)
       Characteristics of rheumatic diseases in COVID-19 (Hyrich Ann Rheum Dis 2020)
       Global epidemiology of psoriasis (Kontopantelis BMJ 2020)
       European Male Ageing Study (McBeth, O’Neill, Pye Age Ageing 2016)
       Outcomes of rectal cancer treatment (Renehan Lancet 2018)
       Global burden of cancer attributable to BMI (Renehan Lancet Oncol 2015)
       Global Burden of Disease Study 2013, 2015 (Felson Lancet 2015a, 2015b, 2016)

 4.1.3 Global health studies:

       South Africa: Poverty, cash transfers and mental health (Sutton Soc Sci Med 2020)
       Thailand: Impact of agricultural pesticides (Povey Environ Sci Technol 2015)
       Burkina Faso: Iron and folic acid and genital infections (Roberts S BMC Med 2017)
       India and Pakistan: Children with autism (Emsley Lancet Psychiatry 2016)
       Kenya: Children with pneumonia (Peek BMC Med 2017)
       Mozambique: Health services and child mortality (Anselmi Lancet Global Health 2014)

                                                                                             Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Below we describe partnerships and collaborations in our core themes.

 4.1.4 Epidemiology and Public Health

 We are members of the Northern Universities Public Health Alliance (NUPHA), a voluntary
 organisation that fosters collaboration in the academic public health community. NUPHA is
 supported by the NHSA to develop public health regionally.

 Our epidemiology and public health researchers have been engaged in several EU-funded
 research projects during this REF period, including leadership of the European Urban Health
 Indicator System (Verma), a project on the exposome (van Tongeren) and examining the
 determinants of self-harm and violence among young people using Danish registry data (Webb).

 Verma was invited onto the round table for Prof Sir Michael Marmot’s 10 year follow up of the
 ‘Marmot Report’ and has been working to develop GM as a ‘Marmot City Region’, including
 improvements in school readiness that have been widely reported.

 4.1.5 Health Services and Policy Research

 Our NIHR infrastructure is a critical platform for collaboration.

 The SPCR conducts collaborative research across the nine top-rated primary care departments
 in England judged by an international panel, including large-scale joint research projects (such
 as the £1m Evidence Synthesis Working Group Hodkinson, Panagioti) and capacity building
 (Blakeman, Checkland).

 UoA2 investigators contribute to two NIHR PRUs (Checkland, Coleman, Bower, O’Neill,
 section 3). These units collaborate closely with DHSC and other policymakers, and also form a
 national network across the 15 PRUs to tackle cross-cutting issues.

 During this REF period, our health service and policy researchers have participated in large,
 international collaborations through EU projects on new professional roles and on integrated
 care for people with multimorbidity (Sutton) and development of a system to reduce adverse
 medication safety incidents in elderly patients (Esmail, Reeves, BMJ 2020).

 4.1.6 Methodology and Data Analytics

 Our HeRC (2013-2018, Ainsworth, Peek) was a virtual network uniting data science across
 Northern England, including universities of Bradford, Lancaster, Liverpool and York; the NHS,
 the Northern Academic Health Science Network, the NHSA and MAHSC.

 HeRC also supported global collaborations, with the American Medical Informatics Association,
 the International Medical Informatics Association, WHO and Harvard University.

 Recruitment to clinical trials remains a priority and we have contributed to the MRC North West
 Hub for Trials Methodology Research and the MRC Network of Hubs (Bower, Kirkham), and
 now the MRC-NIHR Trials Methodology Research Partnership (Sutton C). Bower is a national
 speciality lead for the NIHR Clinical Research Network, with research on recruitment methods,
 the equitable distribution of research (BMC Med 2019) and the link between research and quality
 of care.




                                                                                           Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.2 Delivering impact from our research by maximising translation and implementation

 We have several audiences for our research, with a particular focus on policymakers and
 patients. Below we outline how we ensure that our research influences decision-making.

 4.2.1 Policymakers

 Our policy research units foster engagement with policymakers at DHSC. All PRUComm
 projects (Checkland, Sutton) have a ‘policy customer’. PRUComm hosts an annual seminar for
 DHSC policymakers and NHS England senior managers, and IHPO hosted an ‘away day’ for
 around 15 senior civil servants from DHSC. This event fostered ongoing relationships and
 requests for academic support for policymakers in DHSC and beyond. For example, in June
 2020 Checkland met with an Assistant Secretary from the Australian Government Department
 of Health to advise on networks of primary care practices.

 Our work has led to mutual secondments; Anselmi has worked for 6-month periods at DHSC
 collaborating with their analysts to update the national formula for the Advisory Committee on
 Resource Allocation: such work improves outcomes as independent research on our previous
 formulae has shown. The NIHR PRU for Older People and Frailty (Bower, O’Neill) engages with
 policymakers by responding to rapid requests for evidence as well as strategic commissions.

 Our specialist policy support unit (‘Policy@Manchester’) facilitates engagement, including a
 publication addressing important policy issues (‘On Primary Care’). This led to three research
 events with NHS England, DHSC, the Royal Pharmaceutical Society and the Local Government
 Association.

 We have given oral evidence to House of Commons Select Committees (Checkland, Sutton).
 Checkland gave oral evidence to the House of Commons Health and Social Care Select
 Committee Inquiry on 2nd April 2019 into proposals for legislative change in the NHS, with her
 evidence cited in the Inquiry report. We also work with relevant All Party Parliamentary Groups
 to address particular priorities.

 Our close links with RCGP, Health Education England and the GMC (Checkland, Spooner)
 provide additional avenues to influence policy. For example, Spooner supported an RCGP
 campaign to enhance recruitment to general practice.

 We have a formal Memorandum of Understanding with NICE, with NICE staff holding honorary
 positions. Our investigators contribute to multiple NICE activities, including chairing the
 Depression guideline panel (Kapur) and engagement in HTA assessment (Elliott, Payne,
 Bower). We have a close working relationship with the HSE and won a framework contract with
 HSE to act as preferred bidder to meet their research needs (Van Tongeren).

 4.2.2 Patients and the Public

 Patient and Public Involvement and Engagement (PPIE) are embedded throughout our activities.

 4.2.2.1 Epidemiology and Public Health

 Our Centre for Epidemiology Versus Arthritis includes a vibrant user group, established in 2009.
 The Centre developed the innovative ‘Cloudy with a Chance of Pain’ (Ainsworth, Dixon,
 McBeth, Sanders, Sergeant, Sperrin), using digital tools to track the link between weather and
 pain. This project attracted international media attention and is a model for patient engagement
 at scale.




                                                                                           Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.2.2.2 Health Services and Policy Research

 Our PRIMER group (formed 2008) was the first in the UK to focus on primary care (Morris,
 Sanders), and was recognised as a ‘top ten’ SPCR achievement and flagged as an impact case
 in the RAND synthesis of NIHR case studies.

 The PSTRC (Campbell) invested 10% of its funding in PPIE and has developed a range of
 innovations. This included work with the ‘Museum of Homelessness’ charity (Sanders) with
 interactive exhibitions, as well as poetry and spoken word workshops to explore safety in mental
 health. PSTRC collaborated with the Patients’ Association and the James Lind Alliance on
 priority setting for patient safety. The PSTRC has also developed resources to guide PPIE for
 people with lived experience of self-harm (Kapur, Webb).

 4.2.2.3 Methodology and Data Analytics

 We have engaged with patients to produce innovations, using co-design to develop technologies
 to capture patient experience, outcome and safety data: DEPEND (Sanders); REMORA
 (Dixon); and MRC ClinTouch/Careloop/Actissist (Ainsworth).

 The #datasaveslives initiative used social media to engage with the public on use of health data.
 It was adopted by NHS England, NHS Digital, Wellcome Trust and HDRUK, and our analyses
 showed multiple uses, including event reporting, encouraging participation, and showing support
 for data sharing (Hassan JMIR 2019).

 We ran workshops exploring new ways to consent for research and the use of health data
 (‘dynamic consent’ Sanders, van Staa). Our PSTRC ‘Citizens’ Juries’ investigated public
 attitudes to data sharing, disseminating results to the National Data Guardian and the All-Party
 Parliamentary Group on Medical Research. We also commissioned Citizen’s Juries to explore
 the role of AI in stroke diagnosis and decisions about rehabilitation. The results have informed
 national guidance developed by Information Commissioner's Office and the Alan Turing Institute.

 4.2.2.4 One Manchester PPIE forum

 Although the diversity of our patient contributors is a strength, co-ordination is challenging. We
 developed a ‘One Manchester’ approach through the GM Public and Community Involvement
 and Engagement Forum (Sanders). We mapped PPIE strategies and activities across GM;
 worked to support best practice; and developed shared activities to enhance impact. The group
 includes PPIE leads from the Voluntary Community and Social Enterprise Sector.

 4.3 Wider contributions to the economy and society

 4.3.1 COVID-19

 Our expertise in advanced analytics of large datasets has enabled us to generate robust
 evidence for the multiple harmful effects of the pandemic on population health. The impact of
 COVID-19 has varied regionally and has been experienced disproportionately among people
 who are deprived, care home residents, and those with existing health problems.

 Our research teams have responded rapidly to the emergency. For instance, the GM Care
 Record (GMCR, Peek), interlinked primary and secondary care data for 2.8 million people, has
 been made rapidly available for conducting COVID-19 impact studies.

 We have also informed the NHS and wider response with a focus on deprivation and vulnerable
 groups, including our involvement in the Care Homes Working Group feeding into SAGE
 (Verma, Morciano).




                                                                                             Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In response to COVID-19 we have:

       assessed COVID-19 prognostic models through a rapid review (Sergeant, Sperrin
        BMJ 2020)

       examined COVID-19’s impact on excess deaths regionally (Kontopantelis J Epidemiol
        Community Health 2020) and by gender (Kontopantelis Mayo Clin Proc 2020), and in
        specific clinical groups (Hyrich Ann Rheum Dis 2020)

       demonstrated the impact on mental health (Kontopantelis, Webb Lancet Psychiatry
        2020)

       demonstrated changes in clinical practice that have occurred due to the pandemic, such
        as marked reductions in diagnoses (Brown, Campbell, Kapur, Webb Peek Lancet
        Public Health 2020), of recorded self-harm episodes (Webb, Kapur Lancet Public
        Health 2021), and treatments in specific clinical populations (Dixon Lancet Rheumatol
        2021)

 Munford contributed to the NHSA report on COVID-19’s impact in the North of England,
 covered by BBC Radio and News, Daily Mirror, Guardian and Daily Mail. Morciano analysed
 care home deaths due to COVID-19 alongside Hall (UoA10) (Morciano, Stokes,
 Kontopantelis, Turner BMC Medicine 2021), presenting to Helen Whately (Minister of State for
 Social Care) to inform policy.

 van Tongeren leads our work in the COVID-19 National Core Study on Transmission and
 Environment (PROTECT), aiming to identify the key transmission routes and effective strategies
 to block them. van Tongeren also leads MRC funding on COVID-19’s impact on the gig
 economy.

 4.3.2 Devolution of health and social care (Devo Manc)

 Our researchers (Coleman, McDonald, Sutton, Turner) are funded by the Health Foundation
 to evaluate the devolution of health and social care budgets, with GMHSCP. Our work has fed
 into development of the GM Population Health Outcomes Framework and the Benefits
 Realisation Dashboard, which track regional performance. We are active members of both the
 GMHSCP Locality and Population Health Evaluation groups, providing advice on research in
 each of ten GM localities.

 UoM has invested in the development of a data resource, the GM Population Research
 Resource (GMPRR), which will bring together person-level linked data from administrative
 databases across the public sector with information collected from participants via apps. This is
 being developed jointly with the Chan School of Public Health (Harvard). Its initial twin focus is
 on two GM priorities: improving life readiness amongst adolescents and young adults, and
 community support for the health and well-being of older people from minority ethnic groups.

 4.3.3 Improving access to care

 GM CLAHRC evaluated initiatives to enhance access to general practice through additional
 appointments at evenings and weekends (Whittaker). Our evaluation demonstrated that these
 changes contributed to 8% fewer A&E attendances. We also highlighted keys to successful
 implementation, encouraging wider adoption (Whittaker PLoS Med 2016). Our work
 underpinned the decision to implement the scheme across Greater Manchester, justified a wider
 national scheme (Prime Minister’s Challenge Fund) and was cited in NHS England guidance on
 urgent care. Subsequent regional evaluation confirmed that primary care patients had access to
 an additional 50,000 appointments.



                                                                                             Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Former Chief Medical Officer (CMO) for England Professor Dame Sally Davies described our
 work as ‘a strong example of how CLAHRC can impact on high priority areas and ensure that
 planning decisions are evidence-based’.

 4.3.4 Learning health systems

 Our research drives development of the concept of ‘learning health systems’, which also
 underpins our future strategy (section 1.3.4). We identified major opportunities to improve health
 systems by exchanging conventional intelligence pipelines for networked masses of data,
 methods and expertise (Ainsworth Methods Inf Med 2015). This underpinned funding of the
 Farr Institute Health eResearch Centre (HeRC) (Ainsworth, Dixon, Peek, van Staa), funded by
 MRC, ESRC, EPSRC and NIHR.

 In 2014, the Prime Minister and Chancellor agreed the ‘Health North’ plan, and in 2016, the
 Connected Health Cities bid was launched (CHC). CHC informed the development of the Digital
 Innovation Hub in the Life Sciences Industrial Strategy. CHC linked over 10m records in the
 North of England, and generated over £30m investment, creating new jobs and supporting
 partners to develop products with the NHS. CHC brought together 20 NHS Trusts, 550 practices
 and 10 universities to improve care through joint working. The Great North Care Record is
 accessed 1.5m times annually and is saving the North East’s NHS at least £8m a year. CHC
 also established Trustworthy Research Environments within regional Data Arks to deliver
 common governance, allow research to meet required standards, and support data-driven
 innovation.

 Connected Health Cities informed the development of the NHS England Local Health and Care
 Record Exemplars (LHCRE, £37.5m). LHCRE aimed to improve how the NHS and its partners
 share information securely to improve population health. In GM, LHCRE is investing over £14m
 to support better care, representing £6.8m from the GMCA and £7.5m from the GMHSCP. In
 2020, we received funding as part of the HDR Better Care North (£1.2m).

 4.4 Evidence of the unit’s contribution to the sustainability of the discipline

 A national priority has been the development of health economics. We returned six health
 economists in REF2014 and 18 in this return. This reflects new appointments (Elliott,
 Morciano) and promotions (Anselmi, Meacock, Munford).

 Our health economists have led the development of the discipline nationally and internationally;
 for example, by forming a chapter within the International Society of Pharmacoeconomics and
 Outcomes Research (ISPOR) (Payne), an ECR Committee within the European Health
 Economics Association (Meacock, Munford) and by leadership of the UK Heath Economists’
 Study Group and the NIHR Economics Group (Sutton).

 The next phase of the SPCR will have an explicit focus on working with primary care
 departments outside the formal structure to better share expertise and capacity to meet the
 challenges of health care in the North.

 The PSTRC (Campbell) collaborates across the three NIHR centres (Imperial and Bradford-
 Leeds), and runs a National Patient Safety Doctoral student network.

 ARC-GM is engaged with national collaborations on ageing and on health inequalities across the
 15 ARCs, and we provide national leadership on the NIHR priority discipline of economics
 (Meacock, Sutton).

 The Digital Domain has built an active community (~350 members) through networking events.
 The Manchester Connected Health Ecosystem is a collaborative network that brings together
 academic expertise, industry partners, NHS and social care professionals, local government,
 and patients.

                                                                                            Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.5 Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base

       Kapur 2021 American Association of Suicidology Louis I Dublin Award lifetime
        achievement award for his research in suicide prevention; the first UK winner in 20 years

       Evans Freidrich von Recklinghausen award 2014 (Children's Tumor Foundation), Sir
        Patrick Forrest Prize 2016/2017 (British Breast Group), and Theodor Schwann award
        2018 (European NF Group).

       Vestbo Hagedorn Prize and Medal in 2016, a prestigious prize in Danish Internal
        Medicine.

       van Staa Iain I Boyle Award (European Calcified Tissue Society) for osteoporosis
        research

 UoA2 investigators have the following Fellowships:

       Faculty of Clinical Informatics (Brown)
       Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, Learned Society of Wales (Evans)
       European Respiratory Society (Vestbo)
       American College of Medical Informaticians (Peek)
       Alan Turing Institute (Ainsworth, Guo, Muir, Peek, van Staa)
       Royal Pharmaceutical Society (Payne, Elliott)
       Faculty of Public Health (Verma)
       NIHR Senior Investigators (Bower, Sutton)

 UoA2 investigators have taken part in 69 funding panels for national and international funders
 and charities. Roles include Chair of the Pharmacy Research UK Scientific Advisory Panel
 (Elliott), Deputy Chair of the NIHR Health Services and Delivery Research Funding Committee
 (Sutton), Chair of the NIHR funding panel for AI in Health and Care (Bromiley) membership of
 the MRC Population Systems Medicine Board (Dixon) and Scientific Advisor for the American
 Foundation for Suicide Prevention (Webb).

 We have undertaken 41 editorial roles since 2014, including Chief Editor of Implementation
 Science (Wilson) and BMJ statistical editor BMJ (Kirkham). We have been involved in 19
 consultation projects for overseas governments and organisations, including six for WHO.




                                                                                           Page 30
