Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Queen’s University, Belfast

 Unit of Assessment: UoA22 Anthropology and Development Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and Structure
  1.1.1 Since 2014, Anthropology at Queen’s has strengthened and expanded the reach and
      visibility of its environment as demonstrated by significant research success. It is in the
      unique position of being the only Anthropology department in Northern Ireland and one of
      two on the island of Ireland. In 2016, the former School of History and Anthropology
      became the School of History, Anthropology, Philosophy and Politics (HAPP) facilitating
      new opportunities for cross-disciplinary research (such as Bryan’s co-authored book with
      Connelly, History). We have developed a well-integrated environment with research
      excellence in the core complementary areas of Anthropology and Ethnomusicology
      together with two leading interdisciplinary Institutes, the Senator George J. Mitchell
      Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice, one of three world-leading Global
      Research Institutes in the University and the Institute of Cognition and Culture (ICC), one
      of the world’s first centres in the study of the cognitive science of culture. Nine of the
      eleven staff in the UoA are Mitchell Institute Fellows.
  1.1.2 Directed by an anthropologist (Donnan), Queen’s University investment in the Senator
      George J. Mitchell Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice (formerly the Institute for
      Conflict Transformation and Social Justice 2012-2016) has resulted in major collaborative
      grants, impact and PGR successes with staff in the UoA and across the University. The
      Institute comprises 64 Fellows and 25 Associate Fellows in total.
      The Global Research Institute has secured further investment in its core themes through
      the appointment of two UoA staff, a Chair (Semple) and Queen’s Research Fellow
      (Murphy). The Institute enhances interdisciplinary postgraduate training and postdoctoral
      research initiatives in conflict transformation and global justice. Magowan is Theme Lead
      of the priority research strand on ‘Ideology and Belief’, which emphasises peacebuilding
      and the arts. (She was seconded as an Institute Research Fellow 2014-15).
  1.1.3 The Core Disciplinary Research Group of Anthropology (CDRG) (see Institutional
      Environment p. 7) meets four times a semester to coordinate research strategy and
      integrate interdisciplinary agendas. The CDRG is represented by Discipline Lead
      Bryan,(former director of the Institute of Irish Studies) on the School Management Board,
      responsible for strategic investments and appointments; and REF Champion (Magowan)
      who sits on the School Research Committee, which allocates internal funding (£100,000
      annually) for conference travel, CDRG seminars, workshops, fieldwork and impact
      activities and events.
  1.1.4 Staff who have left in the period are Josephides who retired and Reily who became Chair
      of Ethnomusicology at the University of Campinas, Brazil. Webster has taken up a
      lectureship in the University of Cambridge. One Mitchell Institute anthropologist was
      appointed lecturer in the University of Perugia, (Koensler) and another, Jarman, was
      appointed Head of Policy and Research at Peace Direct, London.
  1.1.5 A significant emphasis is placed upon ethnographic fieldwork. Staff have conducted field
      research around the globe. In this REF period, they have undertaken ethnographic
      research in Afghanistan, Aboriginal Australia, India, Japan, Mozambique, Brazil, Greece,
      Cyprus, Czech Republic, the UK and Ireland. Projects often require repeated visits and
      facility in local languages: Japanese, Yolngu Matha, Urdu, Dari, Farsi, Pashtun,
      Portuguese, Czech and Cypriot Greek.

 Research Strategy 2014-2021
  1.2.1 Our research outcomes demonstrate that we have built convincingly on previous REF
      advice to the UoA where it was noted that there is ‘research of internationally excellent and
      internationally recognised quality across all four themes of the unit and evidence of world-
      leading quality in border studies, religion and performance’. The appointments of Semple
      and Murphy have further enabled us to build on these core strengths and sharpen our
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       focus on borders and conflict, as well as on peace studies and creativity while developing
       a new area of writing ethnography as public policy.
  1.2.2 Our research strategy is as follows:
      i) to enhance the Unit’s visibility in high-quality research outputs internationally;
      ii) to increase research income through innovative large-scale applications;
     iii) to build depth and capacity in the distinctiveness of the unit through the Global Research
       Institute;
     iv) to increase the impact of our research with a range of stakeholders, including NGO
       partners, policy-makers, public audiences, the media and civic society; and
     v) to invest in postgraduate research training for postgraduate career success.
        The unit reviews these aims in regular discipline meetings and at Faculty and School
       levels in Senior Management Boards and Research Committee meetings.

 Research Themes
  1.3.1 We have successfully delivered on all these priorities and developed new emphases as
      follows: i). Borders, conflict and migration; ii). Performance, creativity and peacebuilding;
      iii). Religion, cognition and morality; and iv). Writing ethnography for public policy.

 1.3.2 Borders, Conflict and Migration
  a) The unit continues to play a central role in research on borders with projects that rethink
      how migration, space and temporality reconfigure lifeworlds, memory and relationality.
      These interests are central to Donnan’s research as co-Director of the International
      Centre for International Borders Research (CIBR). Donnan’s collaboration with colleagues
      in Sweden and Austria resulted in a key volume on European border movements:
      Migrating Borders and Moving Times: Temporality and the Crossing of Borders in Europe.
      Boundary debates are the focus of Koensler’s extensive fieldwork on demolishing Arab-
      Bedouin housing in Israel’s southern periphery. His book Israeli-Palestinian Activism:
      Shifting Paradigms examines processes of activism and lobbying in the redefinition of
      human-environmental spaces and their potential to generate new social movements. It
      highlights ethnic divisions and contestations as they arise through grass-roots’ activism set
      against the changing nature of the village environment.
  b) Bryan’s in-depth ethnographic study of public space has explored conflicts and
      commemorative rituals, boundaries and restrictions on urban mobility over time in his co-
      authored book, Civic Identity and Public Space: Belfast Since 1780. Donnan and Jarman’s
      research examines the ongoing impacts of peace walls in Belfast, in a co-authored book
      chapter ‘Ordinary Everyday Walls’.
  c) Murphy’s long-term field research on trauma, memory and mobility in the context of
      asylum seekers and refugees (Ireland and Australia) aligns with Chatzipanagiotidou’s
      research on intra-communal violence, the politics of memory, loss and silence (Cyprus).
      Together they have developed new research networks and a series of British Academy,
      British Council/Newton Fund and GCRF funded grants with Syrian refugees in Turkey
      examining the politics of loss and social transformation following displacement and
      migration.
  d) Knight’s ongoing fieldwork in Japan examines human-animal conflicts, fencing and
      boundaries in collaboration with Rikkyo University, Japan. He is an overseas researcher
      on the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science (JSPS) Award, ‘Reconsidering
      “Species”: Possibilities of Multi-Species Ethnography’.

 1.3.3 Performance, Creativity and Peacebuilding
  a) A new focus of research arising from the UoA’s interdisciplinary collaborations in the
      Mitchell Institute is peacebuilding, creativity and the arts. In 2019, the UoA’s and Institute’s
      role in the development of this area was recognised by the invitation to host the EASA
      network’s ‘Peace and Conflict Studies in Anthropology’ conference at QUB, held for the
      first time in Northern Ireland. This major international conference organised by Murphy,
      ‘Creativity, Resistance and Hope: Towards an Anthropology of Peace’, highlighted a
      comparative focus on creativity and peacebuilding. It attracted a wide range of scholars
      from Norway, Vienna, Israel, Canada, India, the USA and across Europe with keynotes by
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Victoria Sanford (New York) and Richard Baxstrom (Edinburgh). Following the success of
      this conference, the UoA has been successful in its bid to host the biennial EASA
      conference to be held in Belfast in 2022.
  b). Magowan’s research expands the peacebuilding and performance research focus as PI
      of the PaCCS/AHRC project ‘Sounding Conflict: From Resistance to Reconciliation’
      (£799,369 FEC, £652,551, 2017-2021). This successful bid for one of six large UKRI
      PaCCS (Partnership in Conflict, Crime and Security) ESRC/AHRC grants examines the
      intersections of sound, music-making and theatrical storytelling through digital media in
      conflict and post-conflict contexts http://soundingconflict.org Spanning three continents,
      the Middle East, South America and Europe, it brings together six researchers and ten
      international partners working with sound artists, musicians, actors, playwrights, visual
      artists, music NGOs, theatre companies and museums to compare the contested
      dynamics of resistance, resilience and reconciliation. Magowan conducted fieldwork in
      Brazil and Derry/Londonderry. The project has resulted in two roundtables, three
      symposia, two international conference panels, an international conference, an evaluation
      report for Musicians Without Borders (Magowan and Donaghey 2018),
      https://www.qub.ac.uk/research-
      centres/SoundingConflict/FileStore/Filetoupload,885080,en.pdf and a co-authored
      monograph (in prep). A special journal volume of Music and Arts in Action (Magowan and
      Donnan 2019) was produced from two conference panels co-organised in Oxford (ASA
      2018) and Cairns, Australia (AAS 2018). The web database of audio-visual materials,
      collated from the research streams offers a rich collection of sonic ethnography, music-
      making and responses to plays on conflict issues. https://www.qub.ac.uk/research-
      centres/SoundingConflict/
 c) Tsioulakis’s research on music labour and issues of precarity, crisis and austerity in
      Greece has resulted in a Routledge monograph, Musicians in Crisis: Working and Playing
      in the Greek Popular Music Industry (2020) based on long-term fieldwork. A co-organised
      conference panel (ASA 2018) contributed to this monograph. This research was initially
      showcased in his FAPESP (Brazil) funded research with Reily (2014-15) on the
      international series ‘Local Musicking in Cross-cultural Perspective’. It brought together
      ethnomusicology scholars from the US, Brazil and Europe in an international symposium
      and a music festival. Participants’ papers were published in The Routledge Companion to
      the Study of Local Musicking (2018), Reily and Brucher (eds), with contributions by
      Tsioulakis and Magowan.
 d) The unit’s longstanding expertise in creativity and the arts is further underpinned by
      Svašek’s leadership of the Humanities in the European Research Area (HERA) funded
      project Creativity in a World of Movement, with Magowan, senior researcher. They
      conducted fieldwork in India and Australia, respectively, published in Svašek and Meyer’s
      co-edited volume, Creativity in Transition: Politics and Aesthetics of Cultural Production
      Across the Globe (Berghahn 2016). Svašek has also explored the mobility and agency of
      humans, artefacts and images in intensifying globalization and transnational connectivity in
      India. These interests resulted in a co-edited book Ethnographies of Movement, Sociality
      and Space: Place-Making in the New Northern Ireland (Svašek and Komarova, Berghahn
      2018), which includes her research on the Indian diaspora’s production of art and material
      culture.

 1.3.4 Religion, Cognition and Morality
  a) The Institute of Cognition and Culture continues to build depth in Lanman’s and Sousa’s
      research. Lanman’s work focuses on the cognitive anthropology of atheism and
      secularisation, as well as ritual and group cooperation. Together with Buhrmester (2017),
      he has designed a psychological measure of exposure on ‘Credibility Enhancing Displays’,
      which has been shown to be one of the most important factors influencing religiosity and
      secularisation. Lanman’s findings from three research projects on unbelief funded by the
      John Templeton Foundation have led to three co-authored papers with international
      scholars being published in the top cognitive anthropology of religion journal, Religion,
      Brain and Behavior. His participation in an international conference on Charles Taylor’s ‘A
      Secular Age’ resulted in a co-edited volume with international scholars, Working with a
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Secular Age: Interdisciplinary Perspectives on Charles Taylor’s Master Narrative. (De
     Gruyter, 2016). This research concerns how particular features of cultural rituals can have
     different impacts on social cohesion among participants, from generalized prosociality to a
     willingness to martyr oneself for one’s group (Whitehouse and Lanman, 2014;
     Whitehouse, Lanman, et al. 2017). In collaboration with Whitehouse, Lanman has been
     instrumental in updating Whitehouse’s influential theory of ritual according to new theory
     and empirical findings (Whitehouse and Lanman, 2014) and in designing field and
     experimental studies to test hypotheses in these areas (Lanman, et al. 2017). This
     research has been published in the leading journals, Current Anthropology and Nature:
     Scientific Reports.
 b) Lanman (with Whitehouse Oxford) was coordinator of an ESRC funded project ‘Ritual,
     Community and Conflict’ (£3.2 million 2011-2017). This interdisciplinary programme
     examined the consequences of ritual action for group cohesion and conflict around the
     world and throughout history. The research produced large publicly accessible databases
     and Lanman’s contribution was highlighted at public venues, including the Davos World
     Economic Forum https://youtu.be/2ohEo8J7VwI (4’15” mark). Lanman has also been
     involved in creating one of the two most prominent databases currently in development,
     the Database of Religious History (DRH), based at the University of British Columbia
     https://religiondatabase.org/browse/471/#/.
  c) From 2014-2017, Sousa was PI of a US funded project ‘Sacred Values, Morality and Inter-
     Group Conflict’, examining how sacred values pertain to group identities and dispositions
     related to inter-group violence in Northern Ireland. Sousa, with the Department of History
     and Philosophy of Science, Pittsburg and the Center for Cognitive Science, Rutgers
     University conducted the largest and most systematic cross-cultural study of philosophical
     intuitions ever undertaken across twenty-five countries (2015-2018). As part of the team,
     Sousa designed the project, ‘Intellectual Humility and Cultural Diversity in Philosophy’. It
     probed the extent to which there are cross-cultural differences in folk concepts, such as
     free will, wrongdoing and knowledge, resulting in five co-authored journal articles.
  d) In the anthropology of religion, Magowan’s longstanding ethnographic research on
     Christianity in Australia produced a co-edited volume Christianity, Conflict and Renewal in
     Australia and the Pacific (Magowan and Schwarz eds., Brill, 2016) with contributions from
     world-leading scholars in Christianity (Robbins, Barker and Austin-Broos), Pacific experts
     and a (former) postdoctoral researcher (Maggio) previously employed on the ESRC project
     ‘(The Domestic Moral Economy: An Ethnographic Study of Values in The Asia-Pacific
     Region’ Magowan CI, 2011-2015, £292,098).

 1.3.5 Writing Ethnography for Public Policy
   a) Donnan’s research has informed strategies of community engagement in relation to
       border issues, security and policing. He ran a series of roundtables and a policy clinic with
       Artios Global in Belfast and Geneva developing policies on new commercial initiatives to
       support fragile and conflict affected states (2019).
   b) Semple’s immersive field research in Afghanistan is instrumental in the innovative
       application of ethnography to understanding the Taliban and informing conflict
       transformation in the region. The total funding of £1,124,090 awarded to this research,
       includes a three-year ESRC funded project “The Taliban’s War”, led by Farrell, Semple
       and Giustozzi (2014-2017), sustained annual FCO funding since 2014 and £157,500 from
       the Federal Republic of Germany 2019-2020.
   c) Bryan’s research on identity and display in Northern Ireland culminated in a 2016 policy
       conference. A three-year ESRC project (2015-2018) on segregation, mobility and shared
       space has extended his previous impact on the significance of contested symbols in public
       space and is analysed in a 2019 policy report http://belfastmobilityproject.org/.
   d) Murphy’s research on dispossession and loss among refugees in Northern Ireland led to a
       2017 national report commissioned by the NI Executive Office entitled ‘Asylum Seekers
       and Refugee Experiences of Life in Northern Ireland’
       https://www.qub.ac.uk/home/media/Media,784971,en.pdf.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Impact Strategy
  1.4.1 Our impact strategy for REF2021 has been to sharpen the focus of impact agendas at the
      same time as we deepen and strengthen outcomes. We have sought to
      i). identify various policy-drivers with research users working on international and regional
      conflicts;
      ii). increase staff and postdoctoral sessions on exemplary impact-related practice as
      models for impact;
      iii). maximise transformational outcomes for targeted public audiences through specialised
      workshops;
      iv). increase collaborative grant success in partnership with practitioners for international
      impact.
  1.4.2 Our impact case studies by Bryan and Semple have been enabled by the Unit’s
      approach to senior peer mentoring, impact workshops run by the School/Institute and
      dedicated School and Faculty support. The University’s Research and Enterprise
      Directorate supports a full-time Faculty-based Research Impact Officer who liaises with the
      School’s Impact and Public Engagement Champion and the UoA’s Impact Case Study
      Champion on developing pathways to impact, data gathering and evidencing impact
      outcomes. Queen’s also launched its ‘Engaged Research Action Plan in 2019’, appointing
      an officer with seed funding for existing external collaborations and for new initiatives
      (Institutional Environment Statement p. 9).
  1.4.3 The School and Faculty provide competitively awarded impact funds to assist with public
      policy outcomes, e.g. the ESRC Impact Accelerator Account Fund was awarded to
      Donnan for a project on scaling-up impacts with Artios Global; to Chatzipanagiotidou
      and Murphy for research in Turkey; three Faculty Research Grant Enabler Funds were
      awarded to Murphy; and Faculty Impact Support Funding to Bryan, Lanman and
      Magowan.

 Impact Outcomes
   1.5.1 The research focus of our impact case studies also aligns closely with, and is supported
        by, the Unit's priority themes of ‘conflict research’ and 'policy writing':
   a) Semple’s research on peace dialogue with the Taliban has been instrumental in shaping
       new peace caucuses for strategic diplomacy.
   b) Bryan’s sustained research in Northern Ireland has been recognised in his public
       appointment as Chair of the Commission on Flags, Identity, Culture and Tradition, since
       2016. He has had major input into governmental and policy processes in the development
       of Northern Ireland’s economic, political and societal agendas during this REF period.
   1.5.2 Other impact outcomes reflect key research priorities in the UoA. Staff have extended
       national and international collaborations with in-country partners, policy-makers and
       practitioners, as illustrated in these selected examples:
   a) Chatzipanagiotidou and Murphy initiated a social enterprise knitting project in Istanbul,
       ‘Knitstanbul’, for Syrian refugee women in Turkey and assisted its business development
       through an online global marketplace improving its efficacy.
   b) As noted in 1.3.5 above, Murphy’s research on integration among asylum seekers and
       refugees in Northern Ireland led to a 2017 national report and policy brief commissioned by
       the NI Executive Office entitled ‘Asylum Seekers and Refugee Experiences of Life in
       Northern Ireland’ https://www.qub.ac.uk/home/media/Media,784971,en.pdf. This report
       and policy brief directly informed the development of Northern Ireland's first integration
       strategy which is currently with parliament awaiting implementation.
   c) Svašek’s HERA research, Creativity in a World of Movement, resulted in an Open Arts
       Special issue ‘Disturbing Pasts: Memories, Controversies and Creativity’ (2014), arising
       from a public event ‘Global Art’ at the Weltmuseum, Vienna. It brought together an
       audience of 70 artists, curators and members of the public, impacting knowledge
       exchange.
   d) Magowan’s Australia Arts Council research with Aboriginal Stolen Generations artist,
       Heather Kamarra Shearer (formerly Truth Portfolio Convenor of the National Alliance)
       compared legacies of trauma and dispossession with artists in eleven Northern Ireland
       arts’ workshops and a three-week art exhibition, impacting public understanding.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Research Aims and Strategies 2021-2028
  1.6.1 We will seek to enhance the world-leading outcomes of the UoA and continue to
       strengthen the vitality of the research environment through integrated strategies:
  a) Focusing on the reach of the UoA’s high quality research outputs, we will aim to increase
       innovation and significance in our theory and methods, publishing sole authored and co-
       authored books based on long-term in situ and collaborative online fieldwork (due to
       Covid) and high-quality articles in major journals for wider visibility.
  b) Monographs will include, the Irish Border: Memory and Imagination (Donnan), Czech Art
       and the Politics of in/visibility (Svašek), Sounding Conflict (Magowan), Cypriot Conflicts,
       Diasporas and Transnationalism (Chatzipanagiotidou), Reparation and Reconciliation
       (Murphy), Displacement and the Politics of Loss (Murphy and Chatzipanagiotidou),
       Global Patterns in Atheism and Agnosticism (Lanman), Moral Judgements (Sousa) and
       Recreational Food-Giving in Japan’s Monkey Parks (Knight).

 Interdisciplinary Research
  1.6.2 We will seek to expand the interconnectedness of our global research networks.
   a) We will build on grant successes through large interdisciplinary grant applications involving
       innovative research collaborations within the School of HAPP and across the university.
       The strong leadership of and involvement by UoA staff in the work of the Senator George
       J. Mitchell Institute and the Institutes of Cognition and Culture and Irish Studies has
       generated productive and successful interdisciplinary research partnerships and
       applications for funding across Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences among others.
   b) We will aim to extend our research collaborations with international partners for significant
        impact outcomes through Templeton Fund, GCRF/British Academy, Newton Fund for
        research on inclusive economic growth and sustainable cities and to future ESRC GCRF
        calls for Capacity Development (https://esrc.ukri.org/research/international-
        research/global-challenges-research-fund-gcrf/capacity-development/)
   c) We will further promote and support the development of integrated and interdisciplinary
       postgraduate and postdoctoral research opportunities. Building on grant successes, we will
       develop applications that draw in world leading researchers from across Schools, Faculties
       and Institutes to work with Anthropology postgraduates on scholarships, such as the
       Hillary Rodham Clinton Scholarship and LINCS (Leverhulme Interdisciplinary Network on
       Cybersecurity and Society) hosted by the Mitchell Institute.

 Research Integrity
  1.6.3 The UoA is committed to the highest standards of ethics and integrity. The School
      Research Ethics Committee (SREC) comprises representatives of each discipline and an
      external member, reviewing proposals in accordance with the ESRC Framework for
      Research Ethics and Principles. The SREC is accountable to the University Research
      Ethics Committee’s research governance policies. The university provides an online Good
      Research Practice programme of 13 modules ensuring compliance with the Concordat to
      Support Research Integrity for all researchers.

 Open Research Environment
  1.6.4 The UoA adheres to the University’s Open Access Policy, administered by the library.
      New staff and PGR students take advantage of OA training workshops to avail of options,
      such as ‘maximizing your research profile’, ‘e-theses’ and ‘metrics’. Staff further showcase
      their work in various media and online platforms, e.g. The Conversation, The Guardian,
      The Irish Times, The Nonreligion and Secularity Research Network and Queen’s Policy
      Engagement.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and staff development
  2.1.1 The School of History, Anthropology, Philosophy and Politics upholds the Concordat in
       supporting all staff with a system of light and heavy teaching semesters, annual personal
       development review and sabbatical leave for each staff member every six semesters.
       Teaching teams balance the teaching load across the year.
  2.1.2 Academic staff promotions in the current REF period include Lanman, Murphy,
       Chatzipanagiotidou and Tsioulakis (Lecturer to Senior Lecturer) with Bryan promoted to
       Professor.
  2.1.3 Through the Researcher Development framework, UoA22 Anthropology staff are
       encouraged to attend grant writing and impact workshops and are mentored by staff with
       previous success in UKRI awards, evidenced in high quality large grant submissions and
       success rates.
  2.1.4 For all staff, an integrated Personal Development Review system focuses on identifying
       leadership and management opportunities. The Mitchell Institute offers subject-specific
       expert staff mentoring and grant development around conflict transformation, security and
       justice through advice from Institute Fellows.
  2.1.5 Three externally funded non-anthropology ECRs are employed in the Mitchell Institute on
       Anthropology-led interdisciplinary grants. They participate in research and impact
       workshops run by the School/Institute and the Faculty/University’s Research and
       Enterprise directorate. Successful training is evident in four of the unit’s ECRs being
       promoted to Senior Lecturer.

 Recognition
  2.2.1 Staff hold prestigious Fellowships and positions: Donnan is an elected Fellow of the
      British Academy, one of only six Fellows in QUB, a Member of the Royal Irish Academy
      and a Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences. Magowan is a Fellow of the Academy of
      Social Sciences, elected in 2017 and an appointed Fellow of the Min-On Institute, Tokyo.
  2.2.2 Magowan’s Sounding Conflict research was shortlisted for the THE Impact Prize in
      November 2020.
  2.2.3 UoA research by Donnan, Murphy and Magowan has been showcased in the
      University’s DNA of Innovation series, ‘which celebrates research pioneers within the
      University’ and through the Measure of Esteem Framework which recognises ‘highly
      prestigious accolades, such as fellowships, medals and prizes’ (Institutional Environment
      p.19).

 Reward
  2.2.3 Following on from Bryan’s successful 4* impact case study in REF2014, his submission
       to the ESRC’s National Impact award (2014) was awarded third prize. Bryan was
       subsequently promoted to Professor in 2018.
  2.2.4 Chatzipanagiotidou’s and Murphy’s research with Syrian refugees in Turkey won the
       2019 Vice Chancellor’s Research Engagement Award, which rewards ‘exceptional
       leadership in the areas of research, engagement and impact’ (Institutional Environment,
       p.18).
  2.2.5 Murphy, Chatzipanagiotidou and Tsioulakis were promoted to Senior Lecturer in 2020.

 PGR Studentship funding
  2.3.1 Our UoA22 has been successful in gaining PGR awards from the ESRC (Northern
      Ireland and North East [NINE]) Doctoral Training Partnership and the AHRC Northern
      Bridge Doctoral Training Partnership.
  2.3.2 In 2015, Donnan was awarded £1 million from the Leverhulme Trust for 15 doctoral
      studentships with a further 15 matched by the Department for Education, co-supervised
      and held by the Mitchell Institute and the Centre for Secure Information Technologies.
  2.3.3 Between 1 August 2013 and 31 July 2019, Anthropology postgraduates were awarded a
      total of 25 PGR studentships from the US Airforce, Department of Employment and
      Learning, Leverhulme Trust, Teeside University, AHRC/Northern Bridge Doctoral Training
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          Partnership and NINE Doctoral Training Partnership. The UoA has a large cohort of
          international students, including from the US, Brazil, China, Italy, Denmark and Poland.

    Delivering Quality: PGR and Postdoctoral Researchers
     2.3.4 The quality of supervision in the UoA has been recognised by three Faculty staff awards
         for Postgraduate Supervisory Excellence (Svašek 2018, Magowan 2017 and the
         inaugural award, 2015). Successful nominees are awarded £1000 each.
     2.3.5 PGR research quality is demonstrated in a range of mentoring activities in Queen’s and
         externally. In addition to our regular departmental seminar series and weekly Anthropology
         Postgraduate Seminar for MA and PhD students, the UoA hosts regular themed writing
         retreats encouraging postdoctoral mentoring and exchange with PGRs, student-led
         conferences and grant writing initiatives. Led by Svašek, these events have provided a
         platform for creating confidence and career development (e.g. Rush completed her PhD in
         2017 and was awarded a two-year Marie Sklodowska-Curie Individual Fellowship as part
         of Horizon 2020. She became editor of the Irish Journal of Anthropology in 2019).

    PGR completions
     2.3.6 The UoA has 38.5 PhD completions since July 2013. In REF 2014, Anthropology at
         Queen’s had the highest number of completions per staff FTE in UoA24, which itself was
         second in completion in the Main Panel.1 We have maintained an effective strategy for a
         high number of timely completions to date, supervising at our maximum capacity to the
         staff-student ratio in the unit.

    Postgraduate Skills Training and Seminars
     2.4.1 Each PGR student is allocated two supervisors. Ten meetings are scheduled annually,
         monitored via the Annual Progress Review, comprising an initial three-month review and
         subsequent annual reviews with two independent staff members who give written feedback
         on the thesis proposal, draft chapter and oral/poster presentation. Students also undertake
         30 days training via the Postgraduate Development Programme run by the new Graduate
         School, established in 2015, which provides a broad range of training courses and
         individual mentoring for employability.
     2.4.2 We support postgraduate fieldwork preparation and writing through tailor-made modules
         e.g. Advanced Anthropological Methods and in dedicated weekly postgraduate seminars.
         We have embedded a wide range of online and digital ethnographic research fieldwork
         methods in these modules due to the ongoing impacts of Covid-19.
         Anthropology also organises bespoke postgraduate workshops with world-leading
         anthropologists, such as the three-day writing workshop, ‘Weaving the World: Writing
         Evocative Ethnography’ with Professor Paul Stoller, West Chester University, convened by
         Murphy and Chatzipanagiotidou. Our staff-student UoA seminar attracts leading figures
         to Queen’s, profiled in our Annual Anthropology Lecture, e.g. Brigittine French, (Grinnell
         College, 2019) and in the Annual Public India Lecture, which highlights the work of our
         annual, competitively funded Charles Wallace Fellows.

    Promoting Interdisciplinarity
     2.5.1 Our postgraduate students participate in the School of HAPP’s annual Interdisciplinary
         postgraduate writing retreat. In addition, a range of interdisciplinary, conflict transformation
         practitioner-led workshops have been delivered by the Mitchell Institute since 2014. The
         Institute received ESRC funding for a pioneering UK and Ireland-wide Advanced Training
         module for Postgraduates on the ethics of peace and conflict research from 2014-2017. It
         also hosts postgraduate-run ‘Fireside Chats’ and an M-pod podcast series (2018-present).
         The Institute also convenes a university-wide Interdisciplinary Doctoral Research Group
         involving Anthropology PGRs (inaugurally co-organised by Magowan (2014-2015)) and
         the annual postgraduate LINCS conference. The GRI’s ‘Strongest LINC’ team of four
         PGRs competed against 20 other teams in the international Atlantic Council UK Cyber


1
    Research Excellence Framework 2014: Overview Report by Main Panel C and Sub-panels 16-26, January 2015.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      9.12 Challenge competition in London’s BT Tower, coming second to University of
      Cambridge in 2019 and second to Oxford, 2020.

 PGR Conferences and Outputs
  2.6.1 In September 2017, the UoA hosted the national Anthropological Association of Ireland
      conference, ‘Predictive texts: Imagining the Future’ which showcased QUB Anthropology
      PGR research. The annual student-led Anthropology postgraduate conference supported
      by Svašek has held successive competitive awards from the University’s Central
      Conference fund for ’Space, Movement and Conflict’ (2015) and ‘Evolving Fields:
      Sensoriality, Imagination and Memory’ (2017), resulting in Ethnographies of Movement,
      Sociality and Space. Place-making in the New Northern Ireland (Svašek and Komarova
      (eds) Berghahn 2018), with chapter contributions by our postgraduates Mazetti, Soares
      and Hinson and postdoctoral scholars (McCafferty, Maehara and Franklin).
  2.6.2 Our postgraduates lead scholarly initiatives in QUB, e.g. Kyratsou is a founding member
      of the new QUB journal, International Modern Perspectives on Academia and Community
      Today (IMPACT); Banfi organised a two-day workshop on journal publications for PhD
      students (March 2019) and Bastani organised the Sonorities Festival at the Sonic Arts
      Research Centre (2018). A number of our recent postdoctoral scholars have also
      successfully published their monographs in the REF period all with Berghahn: Viggiani,
      Memories in Stone (hbk 2014, pbk 2016); Hocking, The Great Reimagining (2015);
      Graham, Death, Materiality and Mediation (2016); and Rollins-McColgan, Lullabies and
      Battle Cries (2018).

 PGR Recruitment Initiatives
  2.7.1 The Mitchell Institute established a successful postgraduate MA in Conflict
       Transformation with 35 postgraduates in 2016 rising to 47 in 2019-2020 as a feeder for
       progression to PhD. It is coordinated by Murphy and has led to increased numbers of
       PGR applications and international students (50% are international 2019-2020).
  2.7.2 The School promotes the Unit’s recruitment strategy for PGRs through our joint Minzu
       University Beijing and QUB MA programme. The Faculty invests in student recruitment
       with a longstanding commitment to send two Anthropology staff annually to Minzu for three
       weeks in April. PhD students can apply for a scholarship of £4000 from the Chinese
       government. The impact of Covid-19 has curtailed in-country recruitment visits by staff,
       instead replaced by a concerted programme of online events.
  2.7.3 QUB supports a joint-funded scholarship with Aarhus for a reciprocal PGR award
       alternating annually between ICC and the University of Denmark. Two awards have been
       made by QUB and one student has successfully completed.

 Postgraduate Employability
  2.8 The effectiveness of our postgraduate programmes is evidenced in our students achieving
      academic/research positions upon completion, e.g. Lecturer in Humanitarian Studies
      Manchester University (Arthur), Leverhulme Early Career Fellow, Cardiff University (Miller),
      ESRC Fellow UCC (Evershed) and ESRC Impact Accelerator Account Coordinator
      (Neeson, QUB). Two postdoctoral anthropologists are working in the Mitchell Institute:
      Herron is employed on a grant on military veterans’ reintegration into society while
      Burrows is a Visiting Research Fellow.

 Equality and Diversity
   2.9 The UoA is committed to progressing the Queen’s Social Charter and its ‘one University’
       values of unity, inclusivity, equality, diversity and global connectedness at all levels and
       processes. Equality and diversity principles underpin UoA and School processes in
       compliance with the QUB Equality Scheme (2018-2023) and QUB’s Equality and Diversity
       policy revised in 2019 (see Institutional Environment Statement, p. 17), as well as in
       guidance on preparing REF submissions in the University’s REF Code of Practice. The
       School holds two Athena SWAN Bronze Awards (2016) and we continue to implement
       actions arising from these applications in gender equality, opportunity and inclusion in the
       workplace to achieve sustainable and demonstrable change. The School has produced an
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Anti-Bullying and Harassment Support Guide along with mandatory University training
       courses, ‘Think Difference. Act Differently’ and ‘Unconscious Bias’. Two Anthropology staff
       have been School Champions for the Scientific Women’s Academic Network (SWAN)
       programme during its successful bronze award application (Chatzipanagiotidou and
       Josephides) and a 2020 application has just been submitted. The policies addressed
       include, supporting parents and carers, work-life balance, mental health, LGBT,
       international staff and student interests and the Gender Pay Gap among the Professoriate.
       These policies are further embedded in the wider university arenas of the Queen’s Gender
       Initiative (QGI) for the progression of women, the LGBT+ staff network, PRISM since 2018
       and iRISE launched in 2019 to promote BAME agendas.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Grant Income and Strategy for Funding
  3.1.1 In this REF period, the UoA strategy to increase research income has been to target
      UKRI large grants and new funding calls, such as GCRF, across a varied portfolio. The
      UoA received awards from AHRC, PaCCS, GCRF, Newton Fund/British Council
      Researcher workshops, British Academy, ESRC, FCO, Federal Republic of Germany,
      Community Foundation for Northern Ireland, NI Office, Office of the First Minister and
      Deputy First Minister, as well as from the John Templeton Foundation, Leverhulme and
      EOARD in each of our research themes.

  3.1.2 The total research spend for the unit has increased by over £1 million since REF 2014
      to £3,007,212 with major successes in UKRI applications with national and international
      reach as follows:

  a)   Borders, Conflict and Migration
       Semple and Donnan held a succession of FCO and FRG (Federal Republic of Germany)
       awards for research on conflict and peacebuilding in Afghanistan since 2014 totalling
       £1,281,590. Chatzipanagiotidou (PI) and Murphy (CI) led the Global Challenges
       Research Fund project ‘Migration, Forced Displacement and Loss: Rethinking Turkey and
       its Crises’ (2016). They extended this research with partners in Bilgi University on
       ‘Refugee Social Entrepreneurship and Labour Politics in Turkey’ (Murphy (PI) and
       Chatzipanagiotidou (CI), £50,000, 2018) through the British Academy’s programme
       ‘Tackling the UK’s International Challenges’. In 2017, Murphy was also CI of the GCRF
       application Loss and Dance in Turkey (£50,000). Murphy and Chatzipanagiotidou were
       CIs of the Newton Fund/British Council Researcher Links project ‘“Counting our Losses”:
       The Politics of Loss and Social Transformation in the context of migration and
       displacement in Turkey’ (£32,000, 2016).
       In 2016, Murphy was CI of an Erasmus Plus Grant, CRAFT FLOW: Refugee
       Empowerment through Craft and Entrepreneurship (£32,000). Chatzipanagiotidou (PI)
       and Murphy (CI) further co-organised the Global Challenges Research Fund displacement
       workshop in Jordan, Amman (£24,000, 2019).

  b)   Performance, Creativity and Peacebuilding
       Magowan is PI of a five-year Partnership for Conflict, Crime and Security Research
       (PaCCS) grant, (£799,369, 2017-2021) leading a team of six QUB researchers examining
       the effects of sound, music, storytelling and digital media in conflict contexts across three
       continents. Magowan was PI with a team of four QUB staff (including Donnan and Sousa)
       and a South African artist on a GCRF funded grant, ‘Dance, Drama and Art in Conflict
       Transformation in Mozambique’ analysing empathy in conflict (£28,984 2017- 2018).
       Magowan was CI of ‘The Role of Sound and Music in Conflict Transformation’, (PI Rebelo)
       and two postdoctoral researchers, analysing women’s dance (£100,000, AHRC
       Innovation 2017-2018).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  c)   Religion, Morality and Cognition
       Grants include Lanman’s ‘Understanding Unbelief’ (£2.3 million 2017-2019). As co-PI,
       with investigators Lee [Kent], Bullivant [St. Mary’s], and Farias [Coventry]), this John
       Templeton Foundation funded international and interdisciplinary programme of research
       examines the nature and diversity of unbelief around the world
       (https://research.kent.ac.uk/understandingunbelief/. In 2015-2016, Lanman was co-PI on
       a Templeton Foundation funded project entitled ‘The Scientific Study of Nonreligious
       Belief’ ($214,199).
       Sousa was PI of a three-year US grant on sacred values, morality, violence and inter-
       group conflict (2015-2018, £149,814) in Northern Ireland.

  d)   Writing Ethnography for Public Policy
       Bryan was CI of The Belfast Mobility Project (ESRC 2015-18, £13,000 of £400,000) and
       PI on a civil society initiative on flags, 2014-15 (Community Foundation £21,000). He was
       also CI with Coleman (QUB) of the two AHRC projects Contested
       Commemoration (£15,000, 2014-2015); and Commemorating Partition and Civil Wars,
       2020-2023 (£21,000, 2016-2018).

 Research Fellows
  3.2.1 UoA22 holds competitive Charles Wallace Trust funding secured continuously in
      successive application rounds. Since 2014, the UoA has supported seven Fellows.
      Scholars have brought new insights into areas such as gender and dance (Zaman 2019);
      feminism and religion (Thomas 2018); and Christianity, conflict and civil society (Sahoo
      2017), among others.
  3.2.2 The UoA hosts Visiting Research Fellows on a regular basis. Magowan organised a
      research symposium, public lecture and Leverhulme seminar with funded Leverhulme
      Visiting Research Professor Olivier Urbain, Director of the Min-On Music Research
      Institute (Japan), (2016-2017).
  3.2.3 Events planned for 2020 promptly moved online in response to the pandemic; for
      instance, Svašek co-hosted a major two-day, online conference with visiting Fulbright
      Fellow, Professor John Connelly, University of California, together with HAPP and the
      Mitchell Institute. ‘Sensing Divisions: Exploring Affective Dynamics across Disciplines’
      attracted 174 attendees.

 Research Infrastructure and Facilities
  3.3.1 The School of History, Anthropology, Philosophy and Politics provides office space and IT
      equipment for 139 PhD students. The University made a significant investment in
      relocating the Institute of Irish Studies and the Institute of Cognition and Culture to new
      premises alongside the main School buildings in 2018. The refurbished buildings include
      office space for Institute staff, PhD students and visiting researchers, as well as a large
      meeting room with IT facilities for hosting seminar series.
  3.3.2 An Ethnomusicology performance space boasts a range of musical instruments from
      around the world, as well as dance and performance facilities. The performance space is
      fitted with PA equipment and regularly hosts performances, research workshops and
      training/teaching sessions in both dance and music, such as the Balinese Gamelan
      Ensemble.
  3.3.3 Each student has a personal PC and shared printing facilities, with PCs being replaced
      on a rolling 4-year cycle. Wireless connectivity is available throughout the School and
      wider campus. For part-time students, hot-desk facilities are available in the largest lab.
      There are two PhD common rooms and two kitchens exclusively for PGR use.
  3.3.4 The School’s research environment is supported by one senior administrator who
      devotes 60% of their time to research administration assisted by 2.0 FTE clerical support
      staff.
  3.3.5 The School of History, Anthropology, Philosophy and Politics has two large rooms for
      Visiting Fellows with desk space and IT equipment for eight people which is shared on a
      hot-desk basis.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  3.3.6 The Mitchell Institute includes office space for Anthropology PGRs, a common room, a
      room for interviewing participants for dissertations and access to a range of digital online
      conferencing platforms (Zoom, MS Teams, Skype) in a bespoke Fellows Room.
  3.3.7 The Graduate School, ranked 1st of 159 universities worldwide (International Student
      Barometer 2015), provides a dedicated academic and social space for all QUB PGRs,
      including study rooms, a silent study area and tailor-made teaching and skills training
      rooms.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research Collaborations with Society

  4.1.1 We are expanding our research collaborations nationally and internationally to
      increase our impact. Staff in the UoA are engaged with a range of governmental and non-
      governmental organisations; cross-border and community groups; media groups,
      broadcasting corporations, newspapers and online publications nationally and
      Internationally as follows:

 4.1.2 Major International Conferences with world leaders have been hosted through the
     Senator George J. Mitchell Institute, convened by Donnan, as follows:
 a) ‘Global Conflict: The Human Impact’ conference, 2018 was co-organised by the Mitchell
     Institute and University of Chicago (with Murphy as panel speaker)
     https://www.qub.ac.uk/Research/GRI/mitchell-institute/global-conflict-the-human-impact/); the
     2018 Good Friday Agreement, ‘GFA 20’ Conference speakers included Bill Clinton, Tony
     Blair, George Mitchell, Bertie Ahern, David Trimble, Gerry Adams,
     http://www.qub.ac.uk/Research/GRI/mitchell-institute/good-friday-agreement-20-years-on/); the
     2019 Mitchell Institute Annual Peace Lecture was given by social anthropologist,
     Mamphela Rampele and the Institute co-organised the U2 World Conference with the
     University of Ohio, keynote speaker, Magowan.
 b) Lanman co-organised the 2019 ‘Cultures of Unbelief’ second academic Vatican
     conference co-hosted with the Pontifical Council for Culture, which received substantial
     media coverage across more than a dozen countries.

  4.1.3 Grant Funded International Conferences: Magowan organised three international
      PaCCS funded symposia on Sounding Conflict (2017, 2018, 2019) at QUB with NGO
      partners from Brazil, Lebanon, Palestine, Amsterdam and Japan and a final PaCCS
      conference is in train. A Newton Fund/British Council international conference was held in
      London on ‘The Politics of Loss and Social Transformation in the Context of Migration and
      Displacement in Turkey’ (Chatzipanagiotidou, Murphy, Donnan and Vieten 2016). A
      DfE/GCRF funded international conference was organised in collaboration with Bilgi
      University, Istanbul, Turkey on ‘Migration, Forced Displacement and Loss’
      (Chatzipanagiotidou, Murphy and Vieten, 2017). It hosted 40 academics with
      professionals working in local NGOs, policy makers and think tanks such as The Turkish
      Economic and Social Studies Foundation and Citizens’ Assembly. An international
      conference on In(Security) in Conflict and the Everyday brought together speakers from
      Europe, the US and Middle East organised by Chatzipanagiotidou (2015). Furthering this
      collaboration, Murphy and Chatzipanagiotidou organised a British Academy-funded
      conference in Bilgi, Istanbul (2020) on refugee social enterprises and the politics of labour.

  4.1.4 National Association Conference Organisation:
  a) In 2019, Murphy organised the EASA PACSA (Peace and Conflict Studies in
       Anthropology) conference at QUB. In 2018, QUB hosted the Anthropological Association
       of Ireland (AAI) conference (organised by Murphy) while Tsioulakis organised the 2015
       AAI conference in Cork and Murphy was Chair of the Organising Committee of the 2014
       AAI annual conference in Sligo.
  b) A range of association conference panels have been hosted by staff across the period.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      They include a 2019 Australian Anthropological Society conference panel (Magowan and
      Donnan), two Association of Social Anthropologists (ASA) 2018 Oxford panels
      (Tsioulakis; Magowan and Donnan) and a Society for the Anthropology of Religion panel
      2015 (Webster). Murphy organised an IUAES panel (Dubrovnik, Croatia, 2016); and
      ‘Symbiotic Anthropologies’ (ASA, Durham University 2015).
  c) Workshops and Roundtables: We have delivered high profile, international practitioner-
      led, stakeholder and public-facing workshops and roundtables through civic society
      conversations and public policy events. The Mitchell Institute Spring Festival promotes the
      peace-building goals of the late Finnish Prime Minister Harri Holkeri through a series of
      prominent academic and practitioner seminars, lectures and workshops held annually over
      two weeks. Donnan hosted the Harri Holkieri lecture with former Taoiseach Bertie Ahern
      (2019), President Michael D. Higgins (2018), former Finnish President Tarja Halonen
      (2017) and Northern Ireland First Minister Arlene Foster (2016), as well as with Senator
      George J. Mitchell (2015) and anthropologist, Akbar S. Ahmed (2014).
   d) Donnan and Magowan organised a British Council funded international workshop in
      Colombo, Sri Lanka, entitled ‘Art, Empathy and Conflict Transformation’ (June 2018) with
      the Postgraduate Institute of Education, Sri Lanka, and arts and drama practitioners. They
      also led a 2018 GCRF funded international workshop in Mozambique in partnership with
      two cultural heritage NGOs, Iverca and Machaka.
  e) Policy-driven workshops are ongoing with victims’ groups, human rights’ bodies,
      parliamentary groups and government officials. For example, during 2018 and 2019
      Semple delivered three ‘peace dialogues’ in Belgrade, bringing together Taliban, the
      Afghanistan High Peace Council and international diplomatic observers.
   f) Our impact is bolstered by staff government/NGO appointments: Semple is Honorary
      Adviser to the Chairman of the Afghanistan High Peace Council; Bryan is Chair of the
      Northern Ireland Flags Identity Culture and Tradition Commission (2016-present). Svašek
      is a member of the Age NI Consultative Forum (2017-present).

   4.1.5 Staff act as external assessors on international and national research assessment and
       interview panels:
   a) Donnan is Chair of the Esperanza Trust (2000-present) and panel member of the British
       Academy Newton International Fellowships (2018-present). He Chairs the British Council
       Newton Fund Social Sciences Panel and also Chairs the British Council Newton Fund
       Impact Scheme. He was international Research Assessor for research quality for the
       University of Helsinki Humanities and Social Sciences (2019). During the REF period, he
       was a member of the AHRC grant assessor’s panel and a panel member of the British
       Academy’s Postdoctoral Fellowship Scheme (2014-2018). He was also Chair of the Social
       Sciences Research grants board (Academy of Finland 2015-16) and chaired the
       university-wide research assessment for NUI Galway (2014-2017). Donnan has chaired
       two international British Academy roundtables on Education and Conflict and Borders and
       Conflict. In addition, he has twice served on the judging panel for the Michael Deon Book
       Prize awarded by the Academy Francaise and the Royal Irish Academy (2018, 2020).
       Magowan is an international panel jury member for the YIRG, Austrian Science
       Foundation (2020-present). She was an external Serra Hunter Selection Committee
       Member on the Autonomous University of Barcelona (UAB) Ethnomusicology Committee
       (2018) and is a Carnegie Trust assessor (2018-present). Bryan has been a member of the
       ESRC Peer Review College (2014-17) and the ESRC Transformative Research Call
       Commissioning Panel (2018); Staff have reviewed for the Outer International Assessment
       Board for the Irish Research Council Postgraduate Scholarships Scheme (Magowan
       2016-18; Chatizpanagiotidou, Lanman, Svašek 2016-17); the Postgraduate Fellowship
       Scheme, Irish Research Council 2018-present, (Magowan); Cyprus Research Promotion
       Foundation (Grants and Fellowships, Tsioulakis); European Research Council (Magowan
       and Svašek 2015); Svašek has assessed postdoctoral applications for Riksbank
       Jubileumsfond, Sweden (2017); while Lanman has assessed research applications for the
       Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council, Canada and the University of Bergen
       Research Foundation (2015-present). Semple is a reviewer for the Area Studies Centre,
       University of Peshawar and a regular collaborator of the United States Institute of Peace.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  b) International Advisory Appointments: Magowan is an international expert advisor to the
     Min-On Music Research Institute, Tokyo, Japan (2018- present). Sousa and Lanman are
     Distinguished Fellows in the Religion, Cognition and Culture unit at Aarhus University.

  4.1.6 Significant, extended collaborative outputs with international scholars have resulted
      from funded networks across the research period:
   a) Donnan’s book series (with Sarah Green, Helsinki University) ‘Rethinking Borders’
      (Manchester University Press) has five books published or in press in the assessment
      period. Svašek is co-founder and series editor (with Birgit Meyer, Utrecht University) of the
      book series, ‘Material Mediations. People and Things in World of Movement’ with eight
      books published in the period.
   b) Ongoing, formal/funded research network collaborations have been established with
      the USA/India/Kenya/South Africa (Donnan), Japan (Knight), China (Lanman), USA
      (Sousa), Australia (Murphy and Magowan). These collaborations include the Affective
      Societies Research Group, Berlin (Svašek 2016-2018), The Norwegian Network on the
      Anthropology of Mobilities (Svašek 2015-2018), Brokering Intercultural Exchange:
      Interrogating the Role of Arts and Cultural Management network (Svašek 2017-present),
      the PACSA-Peace and Conflict Network, European Association of Social Anthropologists
      (Murphy 2019- present) and the EASA Mobilities Network (Murphy 2012- present). New
      research sites and international connections have been initiated in Mozambique and South
      Africa (Magowan and Donnan). Donnan established an MOU in 2016 with the Shalom
      Center for Conflict Resolution and Reconciliation (Nairobi).

   4.1.7 Many staff hold key positions on editorial boards of international journals and book
       series and review regularly for a broad range of anthropology journals (JRAI, AA, AE, CA).
      Donnan is on the editorial boards of Anthropological Theory, Journal of the Royal
       Anthropological Institute, Social Anthropology, Social Analysis, International Journal of
       Political Anthropology, Focaal and Ethnos. Svašek is a consultant editor of the Open Arts
       Journal. Chatzipanagiotidou was Editor of Studies in Ethnicity and Nationalism (2009-
       2014); and a member of the editorial board of the Journal of Immigrant and Refugee
       Studies (2013-15). Tsioulakis was Associate Editor of the Irish Journal of Anthropology
       (2014-17). Sousa is a member of the editorial board of the Journal for the Cognitive
       Sciences of Religion. Murphy is a member of the editorial boards of the International
       Journal of Digital Culture and Electronic Tourism.

   4.1.8 Staff have sustained national committee contributions as follows: Donnan is a
      member of the Royal Irish Academy’s National Social Science Committee (2014-present)
      and the Academy of Social Sciences Nominations Advisory Group (2016-present).
      Magowan is a member of the RAI Ethnomusicology Committee (2017-present);
      Chatzipanagiotidou was Secretary of the Anthropological Association of Ireland (2015-
      2017); Murphy was Secretary of the Anthropological Association of Ireland (AAI) (2012-
      2015), a member of the Executive Committee (2015-2018) and the Anthropological
      Association of Ireland Social Media Manager (2016-2018). Tsioulakis was a member of
      the Programme Committee of the Biennial Symposium of Mediterranean Music Studies
      (Morocco, 2018); he was also a member of the Committee of the Anthropological
      Association of Ireland (Webmaster) (2014-17). Tsioulakis was a Member of the Judging
      Committee for the BFE Student Prize (2017) and Adjudicator of the Musicology Essay
      Competition of the Council of the Heads of Music in Higher Education (Ireland) (2015).
      Lanman has served as the Secretary General (2018-2020) and now President Elect
      (2020-2022) of the International Association for the Cognitive and Evolutionary Sciences of
      Religion.

   4.1.9 PhD Examining: Donnan (Tromso, Pakistan and Edinburgh); Magowan (Durham x 2,
       Aberdeen, SOAS and Liverpool); Lanman (Oxford), Murphy (Brussels and Leuven)
       Svašek (St Andrews, Nottingham, Leicester and Dublin), Bryan (City University London,
       New York, Sheffield x 2, Ulster, Trinity, Maynooth).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Conclusion

      UoA22 QUB Anthropology research environment demonstrates a vibrant, dynamic and
      well-integrated set of activities, outputs, impacts and income. The Unit has worked
      vigorously to advance its areas recognised as world-leading in REF2014. The success of
      this strategy is evidenced in increased grant income, high PGR ratios and timely
      completions supported by a collaborative research culture. Highlights include increasing
      far-reaching, prominent research activities and events with global figures and further
      amplifying the UoA’s high-profile reputation with awards for distinction in academia and
      impact. Such successes have extended the vitality and viability of the UoA over the REF
      period and into the future.
