Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Reading

 Unit of Assessment: 19 Politics and International Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 Unit context
  The research strategy of UoA 19 during the current assessment period has been driven by two
 main objectives: to develop three research clusters dealing with building resilience to
 fundamental global challenges aligned with broader university themes; and to embed a culture
 of public engagement at every stage of research. The successful implementation of this strategy
 has included investing in new appointments consistent with our research priorities, and
 developing and implementing a range of formal mechanisms to support our staff, research and
 impact endeavours. As a result, we have cultivated a vibrant and supportive research
 environment, strengthened our reputation as a home for influential work in these three areas and
 encouraged fruitful collaborations both within and across disciplines, thus offering a valuable
 contribution to the UK’s research base.
 The University of Reading submission to UoA 19 comprises members of the Department of
 Politics and International Relations (PIR), which together with the Department of Economics
 makes up the School of Politics, Economics and International Relations (SPEIR). PIR is one of
 11 research divisions that form the University of Reading’s Prosperity and Resilience (P&R)
 Research Theme. This Theme, one of four across the University, brings together units that carry
 out research on the institutions and practices that help societies to prosper and build resilience
 against economic, social, political and environmental shocks.

 Most PIR research centres on ‘resilience’. Activities are structured by three overlapping clusters
 that share a concern with sustaining a broadly liberal order in national and international contexts:
 (1) Applied Political Theory focuses on the relationship between modes of political theory to
 which ‘justice’ has been central and real-world problems of violence, civil disobedience, and
 climate change; (2) International Organisations, Conflict and Cooperation is concerned with the
 operation and defence of international institutions; and (3) Democracy and Participation centres
 on the operation of electoral democracy in the face of practical challenges including economic
 adversity.

 Research and impact strategy
 Our REF 2014 submission emphasised two research clusters: Applied Political Theory and
 Conflict: Causes, Conduct and Consequences. Important work by Halikiopoulou and Vlandas
 has led to the formation of a third cluster - Democracy and Participation – with a complementary
 focus on domestic politics. During the current assessment period, our strategy has been driven
 by a fruitful interaction between the organic development of the UoA’s research in these three
 clusters and P&R priorities. It has had two main objectives:

 (1) To strengthen the three research clusters, in line with P&R themes. To meet this objective,
 we have focused appointments on these areas (see section 2), encouraged collaborations both
 within and across disciplines (see section 4) and introduced new formal and informal
 mechanisms, including an enhanced role for the Research Division Research Committee
 (RDRC), which works together with the Research Division Lead (RDL) (Binder) to encourage
 collective commitment to the relevant research.




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 1: PIR Structure

 (2) To develop a new culture of public engagement. Given that the research carried out in all
 three clusters is of public concern, our engagement strategy is part of a broader impact plan to
 ensure it will reach and benefit key stakeholders. The two impact case studies included in this
 submission draw on research carried out in the International Organisations, Conflict and Co-
 operation (Zaum) and Democracy and Participation (Halikiopoulou) clusters demonstrating the
 impact this research has had in shaping policy, raising public awareness and informing political
 debate. To meet this objective, we have introduced new formal support mechanisms, including
 the role of the Impact Lead (Halikiopoulou), who works together with a dedicated P&R Impact
 Officer to encourage PIR staff to pursue engagement activities and ensure that impact is
 embedded at every stage of research. Throughout the period we have developed a range of
 strategic partnerships, appointed visiting fellows and actively supported engagement with policy
 and practice, for example through secondments.

 The Applied Political Theory cluster was significantly strengthened during the period of
 assessment. Priority was given to encouraging work by McKinnon that had important synergies
 with an institutional strength: the cross-disciplinary study of climate change. The result was the
 Leverhulme-funded £1m Climate Justice Doctoral Programme (2014-2019), which brought
 together expertise from the UoA, Law, Geography, and Development Economics. This theory-
 driven Programme, conceived and led from PIR, brought 7 doctoral students to the UoA to
 undertake research across a range of areas related to Climate Justice. Researchers working on
 climate justice produced a range of strong article publications (in the journals Climate Policy;


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Climatic Change; Ethics and the Environment) establishing the UoA as a national and
 international research hub for the politics of climate change.

 Research in this area was also developed as a result of other interdisciplinary initiatives,
 including collaboration with Philosophy and work carried out at the Reading Ethics and Political
 Philosophy (REAPP) centre. REAPP is a hub for individual scholars to exchange ideas, develop
 projects, and organize conferences, events, and workshops. It has brought together Reading's
 moral and political philosophers, primarily working in the two departments. REAPP’s annual
 Early Career conference and a series of workshops have brought together scholars from
 universities in the UK and abroad, enabling potential collaborations and supporting the work of
 our ECRs.

 The UoA’s strategy with regard to Applied Political Theory has been determined by the need to
 maintain and extend these interdisciplinary initiatives to cover a range of pressing normative
 questions, including legitimacy, justice, political protest and inequality. The appointment of
 Baderin (2018), whose experimental work on equality and risk bridges perspectives from political
 theory, political science and sociology, brought a new interdisciplinary angle to the UoA through
 collaborative work with scholars in other UK institutions (Oxford and UCL). This represents a
 logical extension of the concern with real-world applications exemplified in the Climate Justice
 programme. Jubb’s critique of moralism fits with an interest in the practice of violent protest.
 Cromartie’s continuing ambitious reconstruction of the early modern roots of modern
 constitutionalism has involved a subtle re-thinking of preconditions of democracy. Our work in
 this cluster, which seeks to integrate political theory, philosophical arguments and empirical
 data, has obtained funding (Independent Social Research Foundation; Leverhulme) and
 received awards (American Philosophical Association (APA)).

 The second research cluster – International Organisations, Conflict and Co-operation - has been
 re-named to recognise an emerging critical mass, shaped by targeted appointments, in the study
 of such institutions. The appointments of Binder (Associate Professor), Holmes (Early Career
 Fellow) and Von Billerbeck (Lecturer and subsequently Associate Professor) create a distinct
 identity as the leading research group on the UN in the UK. The most recent appointment,
 Goettlich, is building upon strikingly original work about borders with a follow-up project about
 the Law of the Sea. Collaborative initiatives with colleagues in Law for policy engagement have
 led to the establishment in 2017 of the United Nations and Global Order Programme (UNGOP).
 This programme supports short-term policy-responsive work as well as longer-term academic
 research by bringing together strong networks of academics and practitioners. Members and
 affiliates work with various UN bodies, as well as peacekeeping operations and UN country
 teams. The research undertaken is used by, and involves working closely with, member states
 through their ministries of foreign affairs, departments and committees on development, human
 rights and multilateralism, and national policymaking bodies. Research is also conducted with
 regional organisations, civil society and non-governmental organisations, and other relevant
 stakeholders. UNGOP's current research focuses on human rights, peace and security, and
 internal processes at the UN, ranging from decision making to legitimacy, gender, and
 performance management.

 UNGOP’s active research agenda has led to the completion of funded projects (ESRC; Folke
 Bernadotte Academy) and policy reports and consultation documents (United Nations). UNGOP
 also supports PhD research through collaborative supervision between PIR and Law. The group
 has also organised a series of seminars and workshops engaging UN officials and leading to the
 establishment of concrete partnerships. Zaum’s research on legitimacy and state-building, as
 well as his initial secondment to, and continued collaboration with, the UK Department for
 International Development (DFID), have significantly shaped the latter’s policy framework for
 addressing state fragility. This is one of the impact case studies in this submission.

 Research in the International Organisations, Conflict and Co-operation cluster was also
 extended through continued engagement with members of the armed forces, specifically through


                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Memorandum of Understanding with the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst (RMAS) and the
 Army Higher Education Pathway. The former has brought RMAS staff as visiting fellows; the
 latter has enriched the department’s intellectual life through appointment of lively, research-
 active early career Teaching Intensive (TI) staff. The interdisciplinary Ways of War Centre
 (WOW), which brings together scholars from the Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences with a
 shared interest in understanding war and collective violence, pursues a range of research-
 related activities, working, for example, with the UK Government’s Doctrine, Concepts, and
 Development Centre (DCDC) on the 6th edition of UK Defence Doctrine JDP 0-01. The Centre’s
 activities also included a series of events designed to generate mutually beneficial interactions
 between academics and practitioners, including ‘Witness Seminars’ presented by veterans of
 campaigns from the Falklands War to the present. Military engagement has also been
 strengthened by von Billerbeck’s work with NATO and Holmes’s work with the army on gender
 training.

 The development of the Democracy and participation cluster results from synergies arising from
 comparative enquiry in the fields of voting behaviour, party politics and comparative political
 economy (Halikiopoulou and Vlandas), and reflects our strategy to focus on pressing societal
 challenges and their solutions. Halikiopoulou’s research into the progressive entrenchment of far
 right parties in their national political systems is helping to provide answers to pressing policy
 questions about out-group exclusion, anti-immigration narratives and mainstream responses.
 Her work classifying and comparing European far right populist parties and their voters has
 raised public awareness through extensive media engagement, and informed political debate
 engaging think-tanks and organisations including trade unions. It forms the second impact case
 study in this submission. The appointments of Arndt (Lecturer) and Marshall (Lecturer) were
 aimed at strengthening expertise into links between public opinion, voting and the welfare state,
 as well the ways in which informal relationships lead to policy change. Staff in this cluster jointly
 produced circa 40 outputs some of which have attracted major awards (American Political
 Science Association (APSA); European Consortium for Political Research (ECPR)).

 The three clusters will continue to be identified as priority developmental areas as we seek to
 further develop our research and reputation. Moreover, the UOA will continue to identify
 opportunities for public engagement that foster contact with state and non-state bodies. We have
 made two strong appointments, Lepoutre and Park, to join the Department after the closing of
 the census date. These appointments will strengthen our Applied Political Theory and
 Democracy and Participation clusters respectively and foster synergies between these areas.
 Lepoutre’s interdisciplinary work at the intersection of political philosophy, social epistemology,
 and philosophy of language and Park’s work on political economy and voting behaviour both
 address questions of democratic resilience, especially at a time when significant threats to the
 stability of the international order come from economic uncertainties.
 2. People
 PIR is a vibrant department that invests in the next generation of scholars. Staffing strategy is
 directly aligned with research strategy and governed by the following objectives: 1) to appoint
 predominantly ECRs with considerable potential who will develop their careers within the
 department; 2) to sustain and develop the quality of research carried out in our three clusters; 3)
 to support staff development through formal and informal mechanisms.

 With regard to appointments (objectives 1 and 2) during the REF period, we appointed 10
 (Goettlich, Baderin, Binder, Marshall, Jubb, O’Mahoney, Von Billerbeck, Long, Holmes and
 Arndt) and promoted 7 (Von Billerbeck, Marshall, Humphreys, Vlandas, Halikiopoulou, Jubb,
 Sloan) full-time research active staff. All but one (Binder) of these appointments have been hired
 at lecturer level. The appointments of Holmes (Early Career Fellow), O’Mahoney (Lecturer),
 Binder (Associate Professor), Goettlich (Lecturer) and Von Billerbeck (Lecturer) and the
 subsequent promotions of Von Billerbeck and Sloan have strengthened International
 Organisations, Conflict and Cooperation, through the generation of research income,
 publications and connections to the military. The appointments of Baderin (Lecturer) and Jubb
 (Lecturer), as well as the subsequent promotion of the latter to Associate Professor, have been

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 undertaken to expand and enhance research in applied political theory with a specific focus on
 engaging with empirical work across the broad discipline of politics. Finally, the appointments of
 Arndt (Lecturer) and Marshall (Lecturer), the promotion of the latter (Associate Professor), and
 the promotions of Vlandas (Associate Professor) and Halikiopoulou (Associate Professor and
 subsequently Professor) have been directed towards developing research within the Democracy
 and Participation area, as well as facilitating impact development opportunities. Overall, our
 hiring strategy after REF 2014 was consciously adopted to expand and enhance research focus
 in line with our three targeted areas, and the current profile of the unit shows that this has been
 successful.

 Staff development
 With regard to staff support (objective 3), the UoA has a number of formal mechanisms to
 monitor and develop its research-active staff.

 (1) Performance and development Review
 Review meetings: Each member of staff attends two review meetings annually, in order to reflect
 on, assess, and support their performance. The first is the Performance Development Review, a
 developmental discussion with their line manager to reflect on their overall performance, and set
 specific objectives for the following 12 months. This meeting takes a holistic view of the balance
 between research-related activities and teaching and administrative responsibilities. The second
 is entirely research-focused: a Research Review Meeting in which the RDL and individual
 member of staff review the research activities and plan the years ahead. Ahead of this meeting,
 staff produce a Personal Research Plan (PRP) reflecting on the past year, reviewing their
 objectives, and identifying obstacles to progress. These plans form the basis of the discussion of
 research with the RDL.

 (2) Support tailored to career level
 Support and mentoring for new and Early Career research active staff: When determining
 appropriate support for newly appointed lecturers who are at an early stage of their career
 development, we draw on the new Researcher Development Concordat, which supports and
 ensures the equitable development of researchers at all career stages.

 New members of staff are supported through a 50 per cent reduction of their teaching load
 during the first year of appointment. This process is sustained through a clear workload model,
 which treats people of all seniority equally in valuing their diverse contributions, and takes
 account of administrative responsibilities. The workload model was revised in 2017-2018, when
 a designated group worked with the HoD to revisit workload allocations, and help achieve a
 fairer and more transparent workload model.

 Each new staff member is assigned a mentor to serve as the first port of call for any questions,
 and to provide advice and guidance with regard to research-related activities and to managing
 competing teaching, research and administrative demands. Probation targets are set in
 accordance with career level, and include research, funding, administration and teaching related
 objectives, as well as citizenship.

 Research income: Staff benefit from a holistic development strategy that offers support for grant-
 getting while tailoring expectations to their subject area and career level. Every grant application
 undergoes internal peer review involving the RDL, a subject specialist (where possible) and a
 non-specialist. Following the provision of written comments, the RDL meets individually with the
 PI to provide direct and in-depth constructive feedback. This process is supported at the
 University level (see section on infrastructure below). Senior staff members offer feedback on
 grant proposals, and where possible and appropriate include more junior staff in grant
 applications (Zaum and Heaven/ Halikiopoulou and Vlandas).



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (3) Research Leave and Financial Support
 Research leave: All T&R members of staff are eligible for a one-term sabbatical every nine
 terms. Eligibility for a sabbatical is linked to prior submission of a grant application. This policy is
 aimed at incentivising staff to make reasonable efforts to seek external support for at least some
 of their activities. Eligible staff must include specific plans for outputs and grant applications in
 their sabbatical application, which must be approved by the RDRC. On returning from a
 sabbatical, staff members are expected to present research undertaken during the period at the
 Departmental Research Seminar and are required to provide a written report for assessment by
 the RDRC.

 Additional relief from teaching and administration may be awarded on the basis of having taken
 on specific extra responsibilities, or if a staff member has met grant income targets, completed a
 highly demanding administrative role, or required relief to carry out the completion of key
 research activities. Four members of staff have benefitted from these arrangements
 (Humphreys, Cromartie, Golub and McKinnon).

 Generous SDA allowance: Given our strategy of supporting research and dissemination
 activities, we actively encourage staff to participate in workshops and conferences, both in the
 UK and internationally. To facilitate this, the unit offers a generous Staff Development Account
 (SDA) annual allowance of £1500, which can be spent on conference attendance and travel, as
 well as other research related items including books and IT equipment. Members of staff may
 also supplement conference costs through the SPEIR Education Fund, a pot of money intended
 to pay for conferences and their associated costs in circumstances when SDAs are depleted.
 Additional funds for specific items and projects may be requested directly from the HoS.

 (4) Building a culture of coordinated and cooperative research activity
 Annual Research Division Away Day: The UoA holds an annual Research Division Away Day for
 staff for discussion of recent achievements and exploration of possible synergies between their
 research activities. It is organised by the RDL in consultation with the research committee. The
 aim is threefold: (1) To familiarise staff with the specific details of the research of others; (2) To
 further encourage staff to reflect on and develop their research and research plans; and (3) To
 support, through targeted advice and information, a culture of actively seeking grant income and
 impact. Research away days are usually structured in three sessions. The first two sessions
 revolve around staff research activities and are designed to meet the first two objectives. The
 last session usually features a guest speaker, often from Research and Enterprise Services (see
 section three), to meet the third objective.

 Support mechanisms also apply to TI staff, ensuring they are integrated in the department’s
 research activities. For example, the TI workload formally includes the allocation of half a day
 per week for research. Performance Development Review meetings include research support.
 The Research Division Away day, and the weekly research seminar are open to TIs, both for
 attendance and presentations. We encourage research training, and offer funding for the
 organisation of conferences and workshops (e.g. Rauta’s workshop on proxy wars in 2019) and
 interdisciplinary initiatives (e.g. Shanahan’s Monroe Group in collaboration with the department
 of History). Finally, TI staff are encouraged to take on research administrative roles, for example
 Vrakopoulos and Rauta successfully organised the research seminar series in 2018/2019. As a
 result, TI staff are involved in the department’s research activities, producing high quality
 research (e.g. Shanahan’s Richard E Neustadt Book of the Year 2017 award) and participating
 in media and impact activities (Shanahan and Rauta). Our initiatives support TI colleagues in
 their research endeavours; for example, Marshall (Reading) and Ali (Sussex) both successfully
 moved on to TR posts.

 Research students
 PIR has a clear and structured programme to support Postgraduate Research (PGR) students to
 develop into capable independent researchers who are well equipped for long and productive
                                                                                                   Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 careers in academic research. During the REF period 40 students were awarded their doctorate.
 We have the following mechanisms in place to support and integrate PGRs within our vibrant
 research community:

 Support: The UoA has had access to two main external sources of studentships: the ESRC-
 funded South-East Doctoral Training Centre and its successor, the South East Network for
 Social Sciences Doctoral Training Partnership; and the highly successful UoR-based
 Leverhulme Trust Doctoral Programme in Climate Justice which has provided the UoA with
 seven fully-funded PhD studentships during the REF period, all of whom have completed or are
 on schedule to complete on time.

 The Department provides a carefully structured support environment. All students are required to
 present their research twice during their registration, at a fortnightly, student-led PhD seminar.
 They are also required to present a summary of their work over the year to the Department at an
 annual PhD conference. Both of these help to generate important cohort effects amongst the
 PGRs, providing them with informal support mechanisms to enable them to make the best of
 their time as PhD students in the Department. PGRs are active participants in the Department’s
 research culture, whether that be the research seminar or conferences and workshops
 organized under the aegis of specific research centres. PGRs have organized the annual and
 extremely successful REAPP Early Career Conference annually since its inception in 2017.
 Students have access to £300 per year for their first three years of study to attend conferences
 (or £225 per year for the first four years of part-time study).

 Our PGR students also benefit from the Unit’s collaboration with the University Graduate School,
 which offers support and training through which students develop transferable and professional
 skills. All students have access to desk space either in the Edith Morley building or in the nearby
 Graduate School.

 Supervision, Monitoring and Confirmation: Our PhD students have at least two supervisors
 whose input is recognised formally in the workload model. There are reciprocal cross-
 Departmental supervisory arrangements between Politics and IR and Geography, History, Law
 and Philosophy, and supervision in the Department also draws on expertise from Economics
 when appropriate. Students’ progress is monitored annually by a Monitoring Board made up of
 the Director of Postgraduate Research Studies, the Head of Department, the Research Division
 Leader and a senior member of staff; members of the Board involved in a student’s supervision
 are excluded from monitoring their own students so as to ensure independence. Students go
 through a confirmation of registration process in their second year involving the Monitoring
 Board assessing up to 25,000 words of written work as well as reports from both students and
 supervisors with the aim of satisfying themselves that the student has a PhD level project which
 can be completed in their remaining time. As part of this process, students must also
 demonstrate the ability to pass three 20-credit MA research methods modules, usually taken in
 their first year.

 Performance and Employability: This combination of formal monitoring and policies designed
 to foster a sense of community amongst PGRs and to integrate them into the Department has
 been highly successful. PIR PGRs have repeatedly been shortlisted for the University’s PhD
 Researcher of Year award, twice winning it (Gippert, 2014 and Draper 2019), as well as once
 being invited to give the University’s annual Fairbrother public lecture (2015- Ali). They have
 presented their work at conferences including the International Studies Association (ISA),
 European Consortium for Political Research (ECPR) and Political Studies Association (PSA),
 and have published their research while at Reading (Vrakopoulos, McLaughlin, Draper, Ali).
 After completion, many have taken up posts at academic institutions, including King’s College
 London (Fridman), Liverpool (Gippert), Sussex (Ali), De Montfort (Whitham), Warwick/St.
 Andrews (Jones), Warwick (Draper), Reading (Heaven, Vrakopoulos and McLaughlin), Bath
 (Vrakopoulos) and RMAS (Riemann and Rossi).



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Equality and Diversity
 The University of Reading holds an Athena Swan Silver Award in recognition of its work towards
 advancing gender equality. PIR shares these values, with a strong commitment to the support of
 gender equality, and more broadly, of all staff and students in underrepresented groups. Our
 strategy throughout the REF period has been to implement these principles and promote
 representation, progression and success for all while acknowledging the challenges and
 constraints we face in maintaining areas of existing research strengths.

 We have put a number of formal and informal mechanisms in place to limit the impact of
 constraints and improve our diversity and equality:

   (1) The UoA works in line with the University-wide initiatives put forward by the Diversity and
       Inclusion strategy group, under the leadership of the Dean of Diversity of Inclusion, to
       implement and evaluate relevant actions. In doing so, we ensure the implementation of all
       actions relevant to the Equality Act (2010), for example with regards to care responsibilities,
       parental leave and cover. We ensure diversity in our recruitment panels and require panel
       members undertake unconscious bias training. We have also formalised ECR support,
       offering specific and targeted support towards their career progression.
   (2) We set up an Equality and Diversity Committee to oversee all relevant issues at the
       Departmental and School level.
   (3) We are in the process of pursuing formal Athena Swan accreditation together with the
       Department of Economics, as part of a School-level application, which was formally
       submitted in November 2020.
   (4) Through these channels, the UoA is building and supporting greater awareness among staff
       in order to embed a positive culture around Equality and Diversity issues.


 PIR comprises 17 eligible staff spread across all levels of seniority. This includes 3 Professors, 9
 Associate Professors, 4 Lecturers and one Early Career Fellow. Five staff members are women
 (one Professor, two Associate Professors, one Lecturer and one Early Career fellow). Our staff
 span a range of different nationalities, including German, Greek and American; all are white,
 while just under half are British. With regard to our doctoral students, c.40 per cent are female;
 over 50 per cent are non-British, spanning 14 different nationalities. Almost 60% of our non-UK
 PGRs are BAME.

 The result of introducing the above-mentioned mechanisms has been an overall improvement in
 the ways in which we apply Equality and Diversity principles in the UoA. We have increased our
 female to male ratio to 30% from the previous REF period. For much of the current period, two of
 a total of four professors were female (Heuser and McKinnon), while another female member of
 staff (Halikiopoulou) was promoted to full Professor in 2020. Our most recent appointment is
 BAME. We have progressively invited more female scholars to speak at our bi-weekly
 departmental seminar; and have shown receptivity to specific requests from staff with care
 responsibilities, offering relief of early morning/ late afternoon teaching for childcare upon
 request. While this is an informal arrangement, and the decision is at the discretion of the Head
 of School, during the assessment 100% of requests were approved. Our efforts towards the
 achievement of Equality and Diversity principles are recognised by our staff. For example, a staff
 focus group carried out as part of our preparations for our Athena Swan application, which
 included an overall parity between male and female staff and staff at different levels of seniority,
 agreed that progress has been made in terms of recognition and reward within the department.

 With regard to the REF 2021 submission, the University of Reading has developed a Code of
 Practice setting out the steps to ensure it meets its responsibilities and adheres to the principles
 of transparency, consistency, accountability and inclusivity in the identification of eligible
 research staff and the selection of research outputs. The UoA has followed this Code of
 Practice, paying due regard to Equality and Diversity issues in the construction of its submission.
 Our output selection process has aimed at the optimisation for quality while being mindful of

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 fairness. We have a transparent and uniform internal peer review process (ROSS) that treats all
 output forms and all types of research equally at the outset. All outputs are assessed through
 self and peer assessment; agreed scores are then reviewed by the output review group, and
 decisions about which to submit are based purely on the quality assessments carried out by the
 ROSS process. An interim Equality Impact Assessment report carried out at University level in
 2020 and a further bias analysis on the final pool (2021), showed no statistically significant
 differences across career stage and protected characteristics for the institution and Main Panel
 C, providing us with confidence that our process is effective.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Income
 During the assessment period, we pursued a targeted research income strategy, supporting our
 research objectives to strengthen our three research clusters by encouraging funding
 applications. We created a range of initiatives to support staff applications to that effect, for both
 large and smaller grants, depending on individual cases. These initiatives are designed to
 encourage staff to apply for funding in ways that serve their research priorities, are tailored to
 career level in line with our staffing strategy, and to specific research projects, in line with our
 research strategy. Working in synergy with university and P&R-level support (Grant development
 college, internal peer review, RES), they include familiarising staff with guidelines and
 procedures, offering assistance in selecting appropriate funding opportunities and advice on
 building teams and networks. Through formal procedures we also provide sources of teaching
 relief to give staff time to write grant applications and offer incentives such as additional
 sabbaticals linked to grant applications. P&R has also offered support workshops to ECRs and
 held a writing retreat in March 2020. The 50 per cent teaching load reduction for ECRs in their
 first year of appointment is designed to allow for time to apply for funding, while targeted income
 in accordance to career level prompts staff to apply for appropriate grants. Finally linking the
 eligibility for a sabbatical to grant application encourages grant pursuit activities.

 Our targeted research income strategy resulted in an increase of applications compared to the
 previous REF period, made to diverse bodies ranging from UK research councils, industry and
 charities to European funders. Overall, during the current assessment period, all but one of UOA
 staff have submitted at least one grant application for funding appropriate for their research,
 targeting both large and smaller grants, individual fellowships and small projects. Four staff
 members have submitted between 3-5 applications over the period (Zaum: 5, Billerbeck: 5,
 Halikiopoulou: 5, Humphreys: 3, Binder: 3).

 Significant grant capture success in applications made by ECRs is illustrative of the effective
 implementation of our staffing strategy to support early career scholars to develop their
 enormous potential, and our research strategy to develop our priority areas through the active
 support of such researchers. During the assessment period, a substantial number of ECR staff
 members were awarded funding. Von Billerbeck’s ESRC Future Leaders award, and
 subsequently funding to develop work on senior leadership performance management in
 international organizations (Folke Bernadotte Academy) feed into the current research carried
 out in UNGOP. They have facilitated the development of research on the ways in which staff in
 International Organizations (IOs) build internal legitimacy and maintain a cohesive sense of
 vision and purpose, even where their mandates include contradictory duties, thus helping to
 explain how the inner workings of IOs affect their external legitimacy and effectiveness. These
 projects are interdisciplinary and facilitate research that serves to establish UNGOP as one of
 the leading centres of UN research in the UK. Funds for a project on Women and Peace-keeping
 in Rwanda and Ghana (Leverhulme) led to the appointment of Holmes in an Early Career Fellow
 position, bringing insights from the highly topical issue of gender into UNGOP research and
 supporting P&R research themes. In addition, Baderin’s funding from the Independent Social




                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Foundation has enabled research integrating normative political theory with empirical
 social science, thus significantly strengthening the applied political theory priority area.

 Small grant capture, and individual fellowship successes also illustrate the effectiveness of our
 research and impact strategies, as they have facilitated the development of strong publications
 and impact documents: Halikiopoulou (National Bank of Greece), Binder (CAS/LMU Munich),
 Long (British Academy), Heuser (Norwegian Defence University College), Zaum (UK
 Government), Hellmich (Leverhulme), and McKinnon (Leverhulme Visiting professorship).
 Research in Applied Political Theory has also benefitted significantly from a £1 million
 Leverhulme DTP award (led by McKinnon), which brought 7 PhD researchers working on
 Climate Justice in collaboration with Law and other Departments.

 Going forward, the UoA will continue to implement its targeted research income strategy. We will
 also continue to implement the formal support policies in place offered through University-level
 and departmental level channels in order to help staff address challenges involved as research
 funding becomes more competitive, and build resilience in order to mitigate the negative effects
 of failed bids which represent lost time and are disheartening for staff members.

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 Infrastructure and facilities support research in two ways: first, they help sustain a vibrant
 environment of collegiality and cooperation within which research can flourish; and second they
 provide the structural support and management necessary for this research.

 During the REF period, the University has made substantial investments in new buildings and
 infrastructure including a recently completed £40m library refurbishment. At the School and
 Departmental levels, this has been supplemented by initiatives to invest in common spaces,
 improve offices and renew software equipment. PIR is located in Whiteknights campus,
 occupying three floors of the newly named Edith Morley Building (formerly HumSS). Staff have
 their own offices, and take advantage of common spaces to exchange ideas and build
 professional relationships- for example, our newly refurbished staff common room is used
 frequently for lunch and coffee breaks, and we hold a ‘chill-and chat’ morning coffee meeting
 once a month. Our dedicated seminar room is available for research-focused meetings,
 including our weekly seminar. We continued these practices during the COVID-19 pandemic by
 holding regular weekly coffee ‘meetings’ and research presentation sessions online via Microsoft
 Teams.

 The University of Reading Digital Technology Services team offers technical support. Software
 to support research- for example Stata, SPSS, EndNote and N-Vivo which are frequently used
 by PIR staff and PGRs- is available to install both on university computers and their own
 devices. Data storage is also available. The Behavioural and Experimental Social Science
 (BESS) resource, hosted by the School, provides resources for facilitating ambitious social
 science research and includes 30 portable data collection tablets.

 The recently refurbished University library offers staff a wealth of sources both in print and
 electronic format, which are updated on a regular basis. The library offers access to a very broad
 range of journals in politics and international relations. The library liaison officer works together
 with a designated PIR member to ensure this provision is up to date, and we have access to the
 latest materials, as the field develops and our priorities change.

 Dedicated Research Support is offered centrally through the Research and Enterprise
 Services (RES) team. This includes advice on grant applications, costing, data management,
 and applications preparation. The Theme-Led Grant Development College reviews and supports
 ESRC grant applications. The P&R Research Dean reads and comments on research bids and
 meets regularly with the RDL, HOD and HOS to discuss research strategy and plans. RES
 provides a one-stop shop for staff involved in the preparation of proposals, and the management
 of projects, including a very useful library of successful proposals, and various guides to funding

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sources, preparing applications, and managing a project. The UoA’s liaison officer in RES
 undertakes targeted distribution of calls for proposals, prepares costing estimates, and engages
 in peer review. She meets regularly with the RDL to review the UoA’s needs, flag up impending
 opportunities, and communicate activities taking place elsewhere in the University with which the
 UoA may want to get involved. PIR staff made extensive use of these provisions throughout the
 assessment period, as grant applications increased significantly (see section on income above).

 Engagement support is also offered through RES. The impact team and dedicated Research
 Theme impact officer provide feedback and advice for engagement and impact activities. In
 addition, the University of Reading Press Office offers specific media support. Press team staff
 arrange media interviews, and help academic staff access to major blogs and newspapers. A
 number of PIR staff have worked closely with the Press Team to arrange media appearances
 and blogs posts (see section d below). Finally, PIR runs its own blog and social media pages for
 staff to publish their work.

 Funding for Research: We are fortunate to have access to several substantial internal
 competitive funding schemes to support early-stage research. P&R offers staff access to funds
 from the Reading Endowment Trust Fund (RETF), which is administered in order to provide
 targeted support for research. This funding, obtained through a competitive process, may be
 used towards teaching relief, or the hiring of a Research Assistant, and is intended to serve as
 seed funding for larger grants. A number of our members have benefitted from this support
 (Vlandas, Halikiopoulou, Baderin and Jubb), resulting in substantial research development. For
 example Halikiopoulou and Vlandas published an APSA Best Paper award article, while
 Baderin’s RETF funding led to an Early Career Research Fellowship with the Independent Social
 Research Foundation for a project on ‘Anticipatory Injustice’. In each case, RETF funding has
 been supplemented by co-funding from the school, supporting our researchers to pilot work or
 complete key outputs.

 In addition, there is funding available for research assistance through the Undergraduate
 Research Opportunities Programme (UROP). This programme offers undergraduate students
 the chance to gain hands-on research experience on projects covering all disciplines across
 University. A number of PIR staff have benefitted through this arrangement, utilising research
 assistance towards the development of specific projects- for example Vlandas’ work on ageing
 and inflation, which subsequently won a university of Reading research award (Best Research
 Output 2018).

 Finally, the University Research Fellowship scheme provides up to £10,000 to successful
 applicants to cover teaching replacement costs and research expenses for the duration of one
 year. This is competitively awarded, as only 5 are supported in each round across the university.
 PIR staff have been highly successful in this scheme with four members awarded a Fellowship
 during the assessment period (Vlandas; Halikiopoulou; Cromartie; Jubb).

 Funding for impact: During the REF period, the University developed the University-wide
 Building Outstanding Impact Support Programme (BOISP) programme, which is dedicated to
 impact support and offers funding to develop impact projects. This is part of a broader initiative
 of the University to invest in the development of impact activities and ensure staff who focus on
 impact are offered support through a dedicated impact officer and training programmes. During
 the assessment period, six staff members received BOISP support (Halikiopoulou, Vlandas,
 Zaum, McKinnon, Raess and Von Billerbeck) receiving a total of £26,000 to develop their impact
 activities. Two of these (Zaum and Halikiopoulou) were developed into fully-fledged case
 studies, and constitute part of this REF submission.

 Research centres: The UoA’s three Research Centres - UNGOP, REAPP and WOW- provide a
 base for promoting collaboration within PIR, as well as between PIR and other departments,
 institutions and researchers. UNGOP and WOW support work carried out in the International
 Organisations, Conflict and Cooperation cluster, strengthening our ties with the UN and the

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 military, while REAPP supports interdisciplinary research exchange initiatives, bringing together
 researchers from Politics, Philosophy and Law (details outlined in section 1).

 Research seminars: Our weekly research seminar, where invited speakers from the UK and
 abroad present on the topic of their choice, offers a platform for substantive and methodological
 discussions in politics and international relations. During the period of assessment, the weekly
 seminar organized first by Vlandas, Cromartie, Binder and finally Vrakopoulos and Rauta has
 engaged over 60 speakers from a range of British and European Universities.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 We have invested in the development of incentive structures and support mechanisms that
 encourage knowledge transmission within and outside the university. We have actively pursued
 partnerships at the regional, national and global levels, both within and outside academia.

 Interdisciplinary collaborations within the University:
 The Climate Justice Programme has brought together research groups drawn from across
 departmental boundaries in order to develop opportunities for joint PhD supervision and
 research synergies. Recognizing that addressing the challenges posed by climate issues
 requires interdisciplinarity, the programme has encouraged collaboration between scholars in
 PIR and the Department of Economics, as well as the Schools of Agriculture, Policy and
 development; Biological Sciences; Geography and Environmental Sciences; and Law. In order
 to ensure that we provide the best training opportunities for world-leading researchers of the
 future, the programme also brings in visiting scholars from across the UK and abroad to offer
 some teaching and provide PGRs with research support.

 Other examples of interdisciplinary initiatives supported by the UoA include Cromartie’s work
 with the Departments of History, English and Modern Languages through the Early Modern
 Research Centre (EMRC) and with Classics through the Legacy of Greek Political Thought
 network. The EMRC contributes to the study of early modern literature and history in Britain,
 Europe and the wider world, provides the context for a number of externally-funded research
 projects and offers a platform for fruitful knowledge exchange through conferences and its own
 blog cite (the Early Modern Blog). It hosts the Palgrave Macmillan series Early Modern Literature
 in History. The Interdisciplinary Public Policy Group (PPG), set up jointly by PIR and the
 Department of Economics facilitates the development of research with a clear policy focus.
 Finally, the School-wide Economics and Politics Interdisciplinary Collaboration (EPIC) workshop
 regularly brings together staff from the two departments to discuss their work and forge research
 synergies.

 Institutional partnerships:
 Our commitment to the practical applications of research is illustrated by the pursuit of formal
 collaborations with a range of institutions and governmental bodies. Through UNGOP, staff
 members have worked closely with the UN (Von Billerbeck; Zaum; Binder; Holmes), ensuring
 the dissemination of their research in workshops and policy documents. Zaum’s secondment to
 DFid, and further collaborations including his appointment to the DFid Independent Expert
 Science Advisory Group have advanced DFid’s knowledge and understanding by providing
 independent scientific advice. Staff members have also worked with institutions including the EU
 (Marshall, Golub), NGOs and think-tanks (the Bertelsmann Foundation- Binder; the Goethe
 Institute- Halikiopoulou; the Centre for New American Security- Halikiopoulou; Climate Change
 Forums- McKinnon), political parties (Halikiopoulou, Arndt) and Trade Unions (Vlandas,
 Halikiopoulou).

 During the assessment period, PIR formalised an institutional relationship with the British Army.
 The Army Higher Education Pathway (AHEP) is a partnership between the British Army, the
 University of Reading’s School of Politics, Economics and International Relations and Henley


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Business School, which aims to develop officers’ individual capability and intellectual capacity to
 the highest standards possible through learning. While the AHEP partnership is primarily
 teaching-oriented, the scheme has led directly to recruitment of Army officers to part-time
 doctorates. Currently SPEIR has two army officers registered for a PhD as well as a civilian MoD
 employee. The initiative has also attracted a number of visiting Professors and is developing an
 army-path Fellowship. Sloan acts as Military Liaison Officer for the UoA, helping it to continue to
 solicit mutually beneficial research enhancing links with individuals and institutions in the Armed
 Forces and research-oriented activities in the next few years.

 Individual research collaborations outside the university:
 We contribute to UK research productivity through external collaborations. We have encouraged
 staff members to take up visiting posts in the UK (Von Billerbeck: Oxford October-December
 2018) and abroad (Binder: WZB Berlin Social Science Centre, research unit ‘Global
 Governance’, since 2015; Tomlin: Frankfurt Forschungskolleg Humanwissenschaften
 September-November 2016; Halikiopoulou: Sciences Po CEVIPOF Paris, October-December
 2015). We support research synergies through conference attendance and offer a generous
 SDA allowance to facilitate this (see section 2). Collectively, we attend major Politics and
 International Relations conferences, including APSA, the International Studies Association (ISA),
 the European Political Studies Association (EPSA), ECPR and the Political Studies Association
 (EPSA). Fruitful knowledge exchange at conferences often extends to more formal collaborative
 endeavours, for example joint funding bids (Halikiopoulou ORA; Von Billerbeck ESRC; Marshall
 Party-Interest Group Relationships in Contemporary Democracies (PAIRDEM). It has also led to
 invitation for talks at institutions including Yale, Harvard (Halikiopoulou) and Oxford (Von
 Billerbeck; Binder).

 To support and maintain relationships built, PIR staff have themselves been active in organising
 workshops and conferences at Reading, both academic and policy-oriented, for example in
 political theory (Jubb; Baderin) and International organizations (Zaum; Von Billerbeck; Holmes).

 These activities foster a good basis for co-authored research. More than a fifth of our
 publications during the current assessment period are co-authored with researchers based in
 overseas institutions, in countries including the US, Canada, Germany, Denmark, France,
 Belgium, the Netherlands, Italy and Austria. Over 10 per cent of our outputs are the product of
 collaborations with UK researchers.

 Global public engagement:
 We have pursued our strategy of embedding a culture of public engagement across all levels of
 seniority through a range of mechanisms that support and encourage staff in their dissemination
 endeavours. With the active support of RES (see section 3), the Reading Press Office and the
 Reading Communications team, our staff have undergone media training, developed individual
 contacts with media representatives, and set up accounts with large influential social media
 platforms and blog sites. The result has been an impressive, for our size, record of media
 engagement covering major media outlets and social media platforms on a global scale. This
 long list includes, among others, the Washington Post, the New York Times, the BBC, the
 Financial Times, the Atlantic, the Independent, The Conversation, LSE EUROPP, Duck of
 Minerva and the Monkey Cage.

 Contribution to the research base:
 The formal and informal collaborative activities described above are illustrative of the ways in
 which the UoA is doing its part to ensure the University of Reading is an asset to the UK
 intellectual future. In addition to these activities, UoA staff members also give back to the
 discipline by helping produce data valuable sources (e.g. Halikiopoulou- Chapel Hill Expert
 Survey (CHES)); offering academic journals, and funding bodies refereeing advice (all staff); and
 taking up managerial roles in professional associations (Most staff- Figure 2). Three members of
 staff serve on journal editorial boards: Nations and Nationalism (Halikiopoulou), International
                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Peacekeeping (Von Billerbeck) and the European Journal of Political Theory (Jubb). One staff
 member is co-editor of a book series (Halikiopoulou- Springer series in Electoral Politics).




 Figure 2: Committee Membership of National and International Associations


 Finally, the unit’s contribution to the national research base includes a number of idiosyncratic
 and transdisciplinary projects that have few obvious analogues in British institutions. Examples
 include Hellmich's work on the politics of medicine (including a Leverhulme project on the
 salience of pregnancy loss to female life experience), O'Mahoney's continuing work on the
 criminalisation of homosexuality, and Cromartie's investigation of the theology that has
 historically underpinned the political status of 'reason' in the Anglo-Saxon world. In sum, the
 support of collaborations at a regional, national and global level has been an integral part of the
 UoA’s strategy to create and sustain an environment that contributes significantly to the
 international success of UK research.




                                                                                              Page 14
