Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Cumbria

 Unit of Assessment: UOA20: Social Work and Social Policy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 How is Research Structured across the UOA

 1.1.1. Context
 This Unit undertakes research that has a positive impact on society, aims to effect impact on
 policy, and is underpinned by a shared vision of alleviating social and health inequalities.

 Drawing on a legacy of allied health research at St Martins College in Lancaster (1964-2007),
 UoC’s research excellence expanded to include applied social sciences alongside dinstinct areas
 grounded in its teaching and research in allied health professions and medical sciences. Latterly,
 this development has been supported by the institutions submission to REF2014, which included:

     Allied Health Professions (3FTE) - 49% assessed at 3* and above, and 94% at 2* and
      above.
     Sport and Exercise Sciences (6FTE) - 22% submission being 3* and above, and 14% at 4*.

 This platform has enabled UoC to grow research into related areas, and for REF2021, UoC will
 be submitting over three times as many staff in health-related UOAs, compared to REF2014.

 Researchers named in bold are Category A staff with ‘significant responsibility for research’ (SRR,
 see UoC REF2021 Code of Practice, 2.10) and those in bold and italics are individuals who left
 UoC during the REF assessment period. Individuals in plain are non-submitted UoC staff –
 including staff with ‘emerging responsibility for research’ (ERR, see UoC REF2021 Code of
 Practice, 2.12), Research Assistants (RA), Postgraduate Researchers (PGRs) and
 honorary/retired staff.


 1.1.2. Strategic achievements enhancing research culture and environment

 Since REF2014, and against the five year strategic objectives outlined in the 2014 UOA3
 Environment Statement, two principal achievements include the formation of the:

       ‘Institute of Health’ in 2018 (IoH) - uniting all of UoCs health and social care programmes
        and encompassing nursing, social work/care, midwifery, sports science, psychology,
        medical sciences, and paramedic.
       ‘Centre for Research in Health and Society’ in 2019 (CRiHS) - bringing together
        research excellence, experience, and resource across several existing units to improve
        the vitality (through critical mass of researchers, and coherence of research expertise) and
        sustainability (through coordination of researcher development) of the research
        environment and culture. The Centre Director (Stuart) and Theme Leads (Miller,
        Grimwood and Goodwin) additionally ensure quality assurance, research integrity, and
        effective communication across research active staff in the IoH to increase high quality
        academic outputs, research income and impact.

 Capability and capacity has been enhanced through these consolidated structures, and CRiHS
 has formalised a research environment for all academic staff interested in health and social
 sciences research.




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.1.3. Centre for Research in Health and Society (CRiHS) and Research Themes

 CRiHS’ vision is: “Positive transformation of health and social outcomes for all through applied
 scholarship, research and knowledge exchange, leading to excellence in health and social care
 practice locally, nationally and internationally.”

 CRiHS has three overarching research areas, and associated themes – those in bold form part
 of this Unit’s submitted research:
       Applied Health Research, digital health, medical imaging, long-term illness and disease,
        mental health (Miller as Lead)
       Applied Social Science Research – healthy relationships, trauma informed work,
        understanding society, culture and behaviour, communities (Grimwood as Lead)
       Health and Society Knowledge Exchange - HASKE, undertaking research and evaluation
        commissions, bidding and tendering, and workforce development. (Grimwood and
        Goodwin as Co-Leads)
 Fig 1. demonstrates the research themes which are being returned to REF2021 (across UOA20
 with UOA3 for comparison), and the focus of this Unit’s Category A staff. See Section 1.2 for aims
 and objectives to grow research excellence across each of CRiHS’ themes. Staff in Medical
 Imaging (MI) and Digital Health (DIGH) are also being returned to UOA3.




                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 One central theme unites all these themes – inequality - and the understanding and alleviation of
 social and health inequities runs throughout our research and is aligned to our vision. Research
 themes submitted in this Unit include:
       Digital Health (DIGH) - concerned with digital applications, tech solutions, independence
        and empowerment, rural health, and emerging from the Cumbrian Centre for Health
        Technologies (2014-2018) (REF5a, 1). The theme works collaboratively with industry and
        practice to road test technology adoption and new services.
       Health and Society Knowledge Exchange (HASKE) - a Health and Social Care
        Evaluation (HASCE) Unit was formed in 2016 becoming HASKE in 2018 as an entity of
        CRiHS. Its model and ethos provides a unique fusion of business development and
        research veracity, building on the strengths of the University’s portfolio, utilising existing
        and new academic expertise in these fields. This is underpinned by focussed activity in
        tendering, networking, contract/grant capture and delivery of high-quality and consistently
        excellent research projects.
       Healthy Relationships (HR) – including individual, intimate, partner, family dynamics,
        ‘Looking after Children’ related issues, attachment, and incorporating research related to
        the Child, Youth, Family and Community Network (2014-2018) (REF5a, 1).
       Medical Imaging (MI) – including sonography, radiography, and ultrasound (submitted in
        UOA3) and social issues in medical imaging. This theme has emerged from the Social
        Issues in Medical Imaging Research Group (2015-2018) (REF5a, 1). Research in this
        theme is concerned with issues of effective medical communication and everyday practice,
        clinician and patient wellbeing, and effective practitioner education.
       Trauma Informed Work (TIW) – developing research of the Interpersonal Violence
        Research Group (2017-2019) which focuses on violence in relation domestic, partner,
        family, child to parent settings, adverse childhood experiences, victimisation, sexual
        exploitation, trafficking, asylum and refugees. This theme includes the Trauma and Abuse
        Studies Group.
       Understanding society, culture and behaviour (USCB) - including social attitudes,
        behaviours, discrimination, law enforcement and public health. It also encompasses youth
        programmes, social care, wellbeing and philosophy.

 1.1.4. CRiHS Contribution to Research Culture and Environment
 The establishment of CRiHS marks a turning point for IoH and a step change in research capability
 and capacity. CRiHS provides a comprehensive, and centralised, resource for all research active
 staff in the Institute of Health (IoH) creating:
       A single PGR community (35 in IoH, 24 UOA20) that facilitates extended opportunities for
        internal/external networking, promotes sharing of skills and training opportunities, and
        signals to a research ‘culture’ supporting researcher development for sustainability.
       Recognition to areas of research excellence, empowering academics to pursue research
        projects via CRiHS and to do so in a collaborative and supportive environment.
       Additional capacity through coordination and leadership, and capability through sharing of
        knowledge, skills and experience, that plays to individual strengths.
       A focal point for internal research activity through public lectures, seminar series, Work in
        Progress seminars for new and established researchers, thematic discussions, research
        and development training sessions and hubs for PhD students.

 1.2 Research Strategy 2021-2028
 Fig 1. demonstrates those CRiHS themes which have reached sufficient maturity to be submitted
 to REF2021. As part of the forward research strategy (reviewed in 2024 to end of the assessment
 period), CRiHS aims to develop all the themes provided in Section 1.1.3, so that by the next REF,
 there is submitted research across all areas. Those areas which we will focus growth on include
 long term illness and disease, mental health and communities.

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To achieve CRiHS’s vision there will be a clear focus on internal capability and external liaison to
 achieve the following strategic aims for 2019-2024:
       To embed a culture of high quality scholarship and research
       To increase research capability and quality for students, staff, partners
       To seek, develop and maintain meaningful engagement and collaborations with internal
        and external partnerships
       To develop a strong and positive CRiHS brand and reputation internally and externally
       To increase health and society research and enterprise income
       To maintain a dialogical relationship between research activities and operating
        environment.

 1.3 Enabling Impact

 This Unit ensures that impact is integral to research activity. This is underpinned by UoC’s
 strategic intent to “contribute to the social, cultural and economic well-being and prosperity of our
 communities”. CRiHS driving impact agendas within this Unit and UKRI/Research England
 guidelines and Impact Case Study (ICS) templates are used to help staff understand and articulate
 research impact beyond academia. Impact training sessions (led by Stuart) are delivered to staff.
 Furthermore, the Director, Theme Leads, and members of the Professoriate provide one-to-one
 research mentoring to colleagues and explore strategies for generating and evidencing impact,
 and disseminating this externally. The Research and Knowledge Exchange (RKE) Office provide
 additional support for impact generation and related training and development (REF5a, 4).

 Internal/external funding, and staff development opportunities, have been utilised to
 support impact generation. This demonstrates this Unit’s commitment to sustainability and
 longevity of its research benefiting society. As evidence of this approach, research themes have
 been supported with internal funding to undertake impact work relating impact development
 including sabbatical leave. One of this Unit’s ICS’s was supported via QR Strategic Priorities Fund
 (QR-SPF), and the other utilised a suite of external grants to deliver and evidence impact (Section
 3). A further two reserve ICS’s utilised internal research funding (leading to external funding), and
 sabbatical leave has also been utilised to generate impact, for example, Wilbraham, who
 completed a research project working on the impact of weight cutting in combat sport. Further
 details are provided in Section 3.

 1.4 Supporting Interdisciplinary Research

 Achieving research outcomes and impact demands interdisciplinary working, and this unit actively
 encourages this, for example:
       HASKE has enabled engagement with stakeholders across the public, private and third
        sectors, and for a diverse range of expertise to be utilised across a number of disciplines,
        from psychology (Taylor), outdoor studies (Hayes [UOA23]) to social work and philosophy
        (Grimwood).
       TIW – expansion of what was the Interpersonal Violence Research Group into a dedicated
        theme, and with an associated Trauma, Violence and Abuse Study Group, has
        facilitated staff collaboration across UOA’s. This development has been seen with an
        annual seminar series that has had speakers from psychology, criminology, policing, and
        social work, as well as a symposium event.
       MI – has developed innovative cross-disciplinary studies that draw on expertise in social
        psychology (Miller) to enhance the understanding of clinical practice in medical imaging.
       USCB - Covid-19 has led to the development of further interdisciplinary research, for
        example Wilbraham is currently engaged in a project about mental health for young people
        in Cumbria with colleagues from UOA23 and Stuart is leading national research into the
        biopsychosocial impacts of Covid-19, submitted to the Select Committee Inquiry.


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        DH - Marshall’s work on rural health was developed in scope to cover 'wellbeing' and
         'sustainability', through collaboration with Murphy (UOA17). Activities have included the
         Leading Wellbeing Conference (2016); Special Issue of the Journal of Corporate
         Citizenship on Leading Wellbeing in Rural Contexts (2017); a small ESRC feasibility study
         on Knowledge Management in SMEs: a Comparison by Sector and Place (2018); joint
         editorship of a book series published by Routledge on Citizenship and Sustainability of
         Organizations (2020).
        NIHR NENC ARC - Bidmead as ARC appointed Senior Research Fellow works across
         the University and with external partners to evidence social and health inequities in North
         Cumbria. This research is mixed method and interdisciplinary. During the Covid pandemic,
         this group also worked towards an interdisciplinary online research community through the
         continuation of the seminar series through Microsoft Teams.

 As of July 2020, Six staff within this UOA supervise PhDs with colleagues being submitted in
 different UOAs, and four staff have published with colleagues in different UOAs.
 CRiHS proactively facilitates interdisciplinary research through its series of seven ‘cross-cutting’
 themes with leads outside the IoH.

 1.5 Supporting an Open Access Environment

 Staff are encouraged to submit research into peer reviewed journals that have at least some level
 of open access, and within this UOA, and the applied and practice-facing nature of the work, this
 is even more important. Staff are encouraged to share research and open access publications on
 social media platforms and to engage with news outlets. This ensures the Unit’s research
 interfaces with local/national issues. For example:

        TIW – staff in this theme have engaged in TV interviews (Bates) for news programmes
         and documentaries about male victims of domestic violence. Importantly, the feedback
         and reaction of this media coverage has demonstrated that this work reaches
         victim/survivors and professionals, also corroborated by increased repository downloads.
        USCB – this themes research on gender representation in children’s books was seen as
         part of an article in The Conversation (Wilbraham), and work on inequity (Stuart as Lead)
         has been the focus of radio and newspaper coverage, and more recently, her national
         research on Covid-19 featured on the BBC News website.

 Beyond this, wider dissemination is also seen to encourage reach of the research beyond
 academia. This can be seen through public events. For example, in TIW regular public lectures
 have shared their work on domestic violence and abuse, with 60 practitioner delegates including,
 police and probation officers. In USCB, Stuart presented her inaugural professorial lecture to an
 audience of 100 multi-professional practitioners, leaders, managers and academics. HASKE
 regularly hold public events to engage with stakeholders or to present research findings to
 commissioners and clients (many in the public sector). Recently, this has included Morecambe
 Bay Hospitals Trust and engagement with public users, commissioners and practitioners.

 The CRiHS team also hosted six open access seminars (2018-2020) with audiences of between
 10 and 50 per seminar, and a two day open access online conference on educational inequality
 with an international audience of 55.

 1.6 Supporting Research Integrity

 Unit staff contribute significantly to the wider research culture that upholds the standards and the
 research integrity for the University. The central university research ethics panel is multi-
 disciplinary in nature but has six members of staff from this unit on the panel to represent what is
 a significant proportion of the internal research applications coming from these areas (REF5a,
 3.2).

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The CRiHS structure and theme leads additionally ensure research integrity and adherence to the
 Concordat. This is done through the organisation of CRiHS training workshops (for example,
 sessions on writing good research proposals run by Goodwin), facilitating discussion programmes
 (for example, the interdisciplinary Work in Progress seminars organised by Grimwood) and
 providing a ‘critical friend’ role to researchers developing their projects. CRiHS thematic discussion
 groups enable research integrity to be openly discussed. The UoC additionally provides a centrally
 delivered ‘Research Skills Development Programme’, and ‘Summer School’, open to PGRs as
 well as staff (REF5a, 3.2). This includes sessions delivered by 10 of this UOA’s staff.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 This Unit’s overall staffing strategy and approach to researcher development is as follows:
 2.1.1. Be strategic in recruiting staff with research and impact experience and interest to enable
 further development of the CRiHS themes

 This Unit evidences a successful recruitment strategy to broaden research and support impact
 across the themes. In USCB, Policek was recruited in 2017, bringing experience of criminology,
 justice and human rights, achieving Associate Professor in 2017, and a secondment to Head of
 the Graduate School in 2019. Stuart was recruited in 2015 and progressed to Professor and
 Director of CRiHS in 2019. In TIW, Laskey studied her BSc and Masters at UoC, and joined the
 institution as a Research and Teaching Assistant in 2014, progressing to Lecturer in 2018;
 supporting Bates on research within this theme. In HR, Hardacre joined UoC as Graduate
 Teaching and Research Assistant in 2014, progressing to Lecturer in 2015 and started a PhD
 across the assessment period (expected completion 2022). The development of research across
 IoH and CRiHS has increased applications to advertised posts.

 2.1.2. Support staff progression and promotion, linked to excellent research and impact, to further
 leverage researcher development

 This Unit has also supported existing staff in their career progression:

    •   TIW - Bates has progressed from Lecturer to Principal Lecturer, and Taylor from Lecturer
        to Principal Lecturer, and more recently as the Head of Learning and Teaching in the IoH.
    •   MI - Miller achieved Associate Professor in 2018 and became 0.1FTE Co-Theme Lead
        for the Applied Health Research area in CRiHS in 2019.
    •   DIGH - Bidmead joined UoC in 2014 as Research Fellow becoming a Senior Lecturer in
        Digital Health (2019) and Senior Research Fellow within the NIHR North East and North
        Cumbria Applied Research Collaboration (NENC ARC) (2019).
    •   USCB - Grimwood became the Academic Lead for HASKE in 2016, and in 2018 achieved
        Associate Professor. In addition, in 2019 he became 0.2FTE Theme Lead for the Applied
        Social Science Research area, and in 2020 was seconded 0.2FTE as Head of Graduate
        School.
 Of the Units Category A staff, all but one member of staff (Bidmead) is on a Permanent Contract,
 and this is indicative of the Unit’s sustainability and commitment to ensuring continuity of staff and
 of individual research areas. Bidmead was previously on a permanent contract but her promotion
 to Senior Research Fellow as part of the NENC ARC is fixed term, linked to NIHR funding for this
 programme.

 Unit staff have full representation on the University’s Research and Knowledge Exchange
 Committee, and the continuity (and in many cases promotion) since 2014 of ten Unit staff
 evidences a successful strategy for staff development and retention. Staff are additionally
 rewarded through internal reward/award schemes such as the Vice Chancellor’s awards including
 for excellence in research which has been won by Stuart in 2016 and Goodwin in 2015. This Unit
 has increased REF-eligible outputs by 235% across the assessment period.

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Unit uses research activity and alignment of PhD proposals to support staff in impact
 generation:

    •   TIW - Laskey’s PhD supports the work of Bates through developing work with
        marginalised victims groups. Her research builds on existing work regards to prevalence
        and severity of men’s experiences of domestic abuse from women (Impact2002), by
        working with victims from the LGBTQ+ community.
    •   HR - Hardacre’s PhD supports the work of Stuart in support of a reserve ICS. Where
        Stuart documents the importance of empowerment and agency Hardacre adds the
        nuance of the importance of practitioner authenticity in supporting empowerment and
        agency.

 2.1.3. Offer a range of research development activities throughout the year and open to all, to
 support staff early in their research careers.

 CRiHS ensures that ECR’s and postdoctoral researchers are effectively integrated into the
 research culture. This is supported through wider development work (e.g., doctoral summer
 schools, development workshops), and in interdisciplinary research that’s occurring in UOA20
 (Section 1.4). Staff are also supported with academic writing retreats (facilitated by the
 Professoriate), student socials (regular CRiHS PhD student socials to support academic and
 career development), and PGR led writing events (e.g., “shut up and write sessions” run every
 week). For example, Laskey, under the mentorship of Bates has published research across the
 assessment period, serves on the Research Degree Sub-Committee and has contributed to the
 Research Skills Development Programme and Summer School for doctoral teaching. This is in
 addition to studying for her own PhD. She has also contributed to non-PhD collaborative work with
 other Unit staff (e.g., contributing a chapter to ‘Intimate Partner Violence: New Perspectives in
 Research and Practice’ a Routledge book edited by Bates and Taylor).

 Grimwood and Goodwin work with ECRs supporting their work in HASKE, and provide their
 researchers with access to the Unit’s research events as well as providing mentorship and co-
 authorship of reports and publications. Hardacre has been supported by Stuart, with a number of
 co-authored outputs produced across the assessment period. She is also developing
 collaborations outside this UOA with colleagues both internally (e.g., Stephens in Professional
 Services) and externally starting to work with the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR).
 CRiHS have ‘Work in Progress’ seminars, theme discussions, tender workshops and guest
 lectures to support staff developing research ideas.

 2.1.4. Utilise the Performance and Professional Development Review (PPDR) process,
 Mentorship Research Pathways, Research and Scholarly Leave (RASA) and Research Plans to
 encourage all staff to engage in research.

 All staff within IoH now write Research and Scholarly Activity plans (RASA) with their line
 managers. These are collated by the CRiHS Director and wider team, enabling staff development
 activities to be effectively planned and for research opportunities to be distributed in a targeted
 way. CRiHS structures utilise the PPDR process (REF5a, 3.1) to support staff to progress in their
 careers, with successes outlined above (1 Associate Professor/Professor in 2014 compared 5 in
 2021). Staff within this unit are encouraged to sign up to research mentorship, and four unit staff
 are research mentors. In addition to this scheme, there are volunteer and internship opportunities
 to support students and external partners to develop their research capabilities.

 Four of the staff within this unit are based within Psychology who are also supported by two
 dedicated technicians (equivalent of 1 FTE). The requirement of technical support forms part of
 the professional body requirements (British Psychological Society), and their role includes
 supporting both students and staff with research.




                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.1.5. Utilise a network of visiting and honorary staff, and Professors of Practice to embed work
 with industry and practice

 UOA20 utilises Research Fellows, Honorary Professors, Researchers and Professors of Practice
 to stimulate and facilitate exchange between academia and other organisations.
    •   In support across all the themes, Professor Dave Dagnan (Honorary Professor) is a
        member of the CRiHS steering group and supports access to NHS patients; and Dr Asan
        Akpan (Honorary Professor) and Dr Leon Juncker are members of the CRiHS steering
        group, and support NIHR research grant applications. This is of particular importance given
        the NIHR’s move towards funding social care projects, and the potential this offers for
        future research.
    •   In DIGH, Betton (Visiting Research Fellow, Director of mHabitat) successfully tendered
        with Marshall and Bidmead to deliver the PGC Digital Health; Doughty (Visiting Professor,
        International Centre for Usable Home Technology) provided keynotes at digital health
        conferences; and Flashman (Associate Lecturer, President of the Digital Health Council of
        the Royal Society of Medicine) has collaborated on NW Coast Academic Health Sciences
        Network funded projects and taught on the PGC Digital Health.
    •   In MI, Dr Heather Williams (Professor of Practice) has supported the development of a
        UoC Centre of Excellence in Radiography.

 CRiHS and the IoH have created a more sustainable research community with formalised
 structures increasing capacity and extending capability. CRiHS events, including visiting lectures,
 workshops, and staff presentations, are open to level 6 and level 7 students, in addition to staff,
 creating a community of researchers.

 2.2 Research Students

 The Unit’s evidences high quality training and supervision. This has developed a pipeline of
 active researchers who are fully integrated, supported to publish, and prepared for further research
 activity (4 registered in 2014 compared to 24 in 2021). PGR development through support from
 supervisors, access to Graduate School opportunities, and engagement with CRiHS. Regular
 CRiHS PGR coffee meetings are hosted to ensure PGR’s are part of a thriving environment and
 able to make the most of opportunities. Across the assessment period, 9 of the units PhD students
 have progressed from UG to PhD, and 6 of these have joined UoC as Lecturers. See Section
 2.1.1, 2.1.2 for further details of staff PGR development to active researchers.

 PGRs are supported to publish and present research. In TIW, 5 PGRs have published with
 supervisors and are further encouraged to engage in the wider practice-based areas to allow their
 research to inform practice. As examples, Laskey (staff PGR) has engaged with OutREACH in
 Cumbria and presented at a national LGBTQ+ event, PGR Ewin disseminates his findings through
 police committees and national steering groups. In MI, Miller has published five international peer-
 reviewed papers with UG and PG students.

 PGRs acquire skills that prepare individuals for careers in, and beyond academia. This
 includes PGRs progressing to academic institutions (Glasgow University, Open university), to
 roles in practice (Advance HE, Cumbria Partnership NHS Foundation Trust) as well as contributing
 towards UoC’s taught post graduate programmes (PGCert Sustainable Leadership).

 PGRs are encouraged to engage in a wide range of networks. This includes steering groups
 (e.g. The Collaborative Action Research Network and Action Research Network of the Americas),
 and to networks where work is presented on an international scale (in academia) as well as directly
 to practitioners (including organisations working with adolescents, mainstream and specialist
 educational providers and activist networks). This research has influenced changes in school
 nursing, school mental health, and wider health and educational sectors. Hardacre (staff PGR)
 has recently taken lead of the Practitioner Action Research and Creative Methods Hub - a cross-

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 curricular research network that fosters a community of practitioner-researchers inside and outside
 the university and helps to forge connections between this community and relevant networks and
 associations.

 The collaboration with PGRs in this UOA has led to the development of a wider supportive
 research culture that informs engagement with active research, dissemination, and external
 collaborations, preparing candidates for careers in academic or practice.

 This Unit provides all PGRs with opportunities to contribute to the vitality of the unit. CRiHS
 facilitates PGR annual reviews where research in progress is presented and formalised as part of
 the end of year review process. All candidates are invited and supported to present their research
 at the Research Summer School, and in some cases, specific feedback has been requested from
 the group on PhD development. Our PhD completions over the REF period stand at 3.00 FTE
 (REF5a, 4.1 Table 3, for overall increase in completions). Staff within this Unit also support PGR
 wellbeing, for example, Wilbraham is Chair of the Postgraduate Health and Wellbeing Steering
 Group. PGRs are encouraged to also achieve work-life balance. A high-level commentary on EDI
 data for this Unit’s PGRs has been provided below.

  Table 1. EDI Data for UOA20 PGRs
  Key consideration Unit Considerations/Actions
  36% <39; 29% 40- This represents an even balance. An older demographic reflects the fact
  49; 32% 50-59.       that many of Unit PGRs are studying alongside practice. This creates a
                       diverse research environment with a range of skills and experiences. It is
                       broadly reflective of the staff pool (though higher % of PGRs <39), see
                       Table 2.
  54% female and Relatively even gender split for PGRs, though 87% of Unit staff are
  46% male             female. Supervisors have completed unconscious bias training (UBT) to
                       mitigate.
  11% BAME             Positive figure. 0% of unit staff are BAME. Supervisors have completed
                       UBT.
  29%        declared Broadly reflective of institutional figures for staff and students. Unit staff
  disability           made aware of institutional structures to support health and wellbeing,
                       including signposting to Disability Officers.
  11% LGB              More representative compared to staff pool, which is positive.
                       Supervisors have completed UBT.
  85% part-time        Ensure that part-time PGRs engage with Unit activities, and if in practice,
                       their experiences contribute to Unit vitality.

 2.3 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)

 The UOA adheres to centralised policies regarding EDI (REF5a, 3.3). These policies are applied
 in this Unit in the following ways:
    •   Flexible working arrangements are available for all staff, and are utilised by three of this
        Unit’s staff.
    •   All staff within this UOA utilise the PPDR process to request staff development or discuss
        wellbeing issues
    •   Staff from under-represented groups are given additional encouragement and support to
        become research active
    •   This Unit includes two Athena Swan Leads
 Staff are encouraged to engage in EDI activities that also support transition from awareness to
 advocacy for example, Wilbraham is a TUC Health Advocate, UoC Lead for the Healthy University
 Network Lead and Better health at work scheme. Laskey is a member of the Health and Wellbeing
 Steering Group and the LGBTQ+ network. Policek is a Member of the LGBTQ+ network, and is
 Chairperson of HIV Scotland. These interests are reflected in a number of this Unit’s outputs
 (REF2).


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 More broadly, the Unit utilised data from the Equality Impact Assessment exercise on output
 distribution and eligible staff to identify EDI actions (see REF Code of Practice, 1.8 for schedule).
 Throughout submission preparation, Unit leads have worked directly with the UoC EDI Officer to
 understand and interpret the data and identify mitigating actions. These actions have then been
 raised with the CRiHS Director, IoH Director and the DVC (Health, Environment and Innovation),
 also forming part of our institutional approach to responding to this data (REF5a, 3.3). A summary
 of these considerations and actions are provided below. PNS refers to ‘prefer not to say’.

  Table 2. EDI Data for Unit Staffing and Output Selection
  Category       %    Considerations                       Proposed Actions
  Age
  30-39          16 Continuing challenge of staff <30      Development of a strategy to
  40-49          42 achieving SRR in a teaching-led        engage staff earlier in their
                      institution. Reflective of the time  careers in researcher
  50-59          42
                      staff work in applied practice       development.
  >=60           0    settings before moving into
                      academia. 18% of outputs
                      attributable to staff 30-39.
  Gender
  Female         83 Reflects institutional breakdown and Ensure support available for all
  Male           17 NHS workforce (75% female). High       staff in the Institute of Health to
                      prevalence in IoH senior roles (86% engage in research activities. 50%
                      female) compares favourably to       of the Associate
                      females working at consultant level  Professor/Professor appointments
                      in the NHS (32%). Output pool        within this UOA are female.
                      matches staff breakdown.
  Orientation
  LGB+           0    No LGB+ representation.              Institutional EDI initiatives should
  Heterosexual 92                                          be promoted more widely. CRiHS
                                                           Director to deliver specific EDI
  *PNTS          8
                                                           sessions as part of skills and
                                                           training.
  Religion
  Religious      8    No specific considerations.          Cross reference with institutional
  Non-           75                                        support and existing networks,
  Religious                                                and promote more widely.
  PNTS           17
  Ethnicity
  White         100 No BAME representation. 5%             Recommend to IoH Director that
  BAME                colleagues are BME institutionally.  positive action statement included
  Unknown         0                                        in job advertisements.
  Disability
  Declared       33 No specific considerations. Output     Positive figures, demonstrating
  None Declared 67    pool  matches   staff breakdown.     that staff are made aware of
                                                           support and are able to research
  Information     0
                                                           productively.
  Refused
  Contract
  Full Time      75 Slightly lower on PT staff. Output     CRiHS is addressing these by
  (FT)                pool slightly lower for PT staff     ensuring all staff complete a
  Part Time      25 (18%).                                 research plan, approved by their
  (PT)                                                     line manager; empowering PT
                                                           staff to utilise research leave.
                                                           100% of this Unit’s submitted staff
                                                           are on permanent contracts.

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 3.1 Research income

 This UOA has returned (to HESA) research income of £1,216,137. For a new UOA submission,
 this represents a significant achievement across the assessment period.

 HASKE has been a major driver of income, with £867,620 related to this research area
 (Grimwood and Goodwin). This success has been underpinned by a strategy which has sought
 to secure commissions through high-quality tendering, networking and incrementally building
 expertise, reputation and credibility, with a range of stakeholders.

  Table 3. HASKE Research Income returned to HESA
  Grants>£20,000 provided below
  Health Education North West   £48,580  Evaluation of Innovation Fund Education
                                         Programmes
  Bay Health and Care Partners  £248,799 Evaluation of the Morecambe Bay Better Care
                                         Together Primary and Acute and System
                                         vanguard.
  Health Education England      £24,701  Evaluation of their learning and development
                                         programme
  Northern Cancer Alliance      £50,000  Evaluation of their ‘Vague Symptoms Pathway’.
  North West Ambulance Service £54,167   Evaluation of their integrated urgent care model
  Northern England Strategic £20,108     SCOPE project study protocol.
  Clinical Networks
  Health Education England      £20,500  Forerunner Collaborative evaluation
  Health Education England      £45,589  Forerunner Learning Environments Evaluation
  Health Education England      £20,745  Population Centric Workforce
  Health Education England      £20,032  AHP Project
  HEFCE/OFS                     £31,216  Cumbria Collaborative Outreach Programme
                                         Evaluation


 In DIGH, £249,883 has been returned, and the strategy has utilised this staff’s expertise in
 telemedicine, telehealth and rural health, as well as our Cumbrian context (which is rural
 dispersed, with health challenges) to deliver a number of specific commissions for health bodies,
 often working with partners and technology adopters in healthcare settings.

  Table 4. DIGH Research Income returned to HESA
  Grants>£20,000 provided below
  North West Coast Academic £25,000       Telehealth Adoption
  Health Science Network
  North East and North Cumbria £33,000    Research on digital falls
  Academic     Health  Science
  Network
  Academic     Health  Science £115,000 Cumbria Rural Health Forum
  Network for North East and
  North Cumbria




                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In USCB, the strategy has focused on delivery of a major ERASMUS+ programme as well as a
 number of smaller commissions for bodies such as the Foyer Federation.

  Table 5. USCB Research Income returned to HESA
  Grants provided below
  ERASMSUS+                   £70,685    Marginalisation and Co-created Education
                                         Programme
  Foyer Federation            £9,900     Systematic review of strengths based literature.
  LEAP Confronting Conflict   £4,583     Developing a Theory of Change for a Gang
                                         Desistance Programme in London.

 In MI, a number of grants have been returned in UOA3 (College of Radiographers Industry
 Partnership Scheme, £10,000) and in TIW, staff have worked with Greater Manchester Police and
 Portsmouth City Council as part of the Up2U programme for people who use domestically abusive
 and unhealthy behaviours in their relationships. Further income across the other themes included
 commissions or funding from the Degree Apprenticeship Development Fund, North West Coast
 Connected Cities, the NHS, Warrington Teaching Schools Alliance, Kendal Brewery Arts, Office
 for Students and other third sector organisations. £98,634 has been returned across USCB, MI
 and TIW.

 Since 2018, this unit has also utilised new infrastructures to support income generation, the NIHR
 North East and North Cumbria Research Design Service (NENC RDS, 2018-2023) and North
 East North Cumbria Applied Research Collaboration (NENC ARC, 2019-2024). Both of these
 initiatives have generated income (up to July 2020) to this Unit of:
        £7,678 (NENC RDS) (not returned as HESA research income)
        £46,364 (NENC ARC), including a PhD studentship (2019-2022) (returned as UO3 HESA
         research income).

 Into the next assessment cycle, this Unit’s strategy for generating research income will:
        Continue to build and capitalise on success related to HASKE, and to involve an increasing
         number of staff in delivery of commissions to enhance capability of Unit staff.
        Utilise the NENC RDS to support staff to secure research income aligned to the CRiHS
         themes and purpose, including developing capability and reputation in the TIW and HR
         themes.
        Utilise the NENC ARC to create new opportunities for staff to engage in externally funded
         research and acquire skills and experience to seek further income (this has started to be
         achieved with £173,000 awarded in October 2020).
        Utilise infrastructures related to CRiHS to improve tendering and building skills, ensure
         coordination of activity/applications, and create equitable opportunities for staff to be
         involved.

 3.2 Other Unit income and infrastructure for researcher development

 Funding for PhDs has been received from organisations including Cumbria Police, College of
 Policing, the NENC ARC as well as this Units QR allocation. Across all Unit themes, the RDS
 NENC and NENC ARC provide infrastructure support. UoC was selected in 2018 to host the RDS
 NENC, and engagement in NIHR programmes is a key lever of capability across CRiHS and IoH.
 Stuart is part of the executive group for this service, and their representative (Hayes) is also a
 part of the CRiHS steering group.

 The RDS NENC is one of ten regional services that make up the national NIHR Research Design
 Service. As part of a national service, the service adheres to the RDS Charter. Its aim is to increase
 the number and quality of applications for applied health and social care research that benefits
 patients and the public. Based at Fusehill Street campus, Carlisle, the RDS NENC provides staff
 in this Unit with local access to:

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Research design and methodological advice to researchers who are developing
        applications for national peer-reviewed funding;
       support for successful applicants;
       advice (free of charge) via face-to-face by telephone and email, and video conferencing.

 The NENC ARC is a partnership that brings together six regional universities, the NHS, health
 and social care providers, local authorities, the voluntary sector, community groups, members of
 the public and others. The ARC’s aim is to ensure ‘better care for all people in all places’. In order
 to achieve this, the partnership:
       Promotes applied and impactful research
       Supports public involvement and community engagement in research
       Utilises knowledge implementation science to scale projects
       Foster collaboration between universities, practice organisations and charities
       Funds senior research fellows, PhD studies and research projects
       Provides capability development to partners across the ARC.

 UoC’s involvement in the NENC ARC was secured 2019, with Stuart on the executive group and
 Public Involvement and Community Engagement lead. Though outside the assessment period,
 £173k of income was confirmed via this group (October 2020), for research projects working with
 a range of HEI and practice-based partners. In October 2020 we will welcome two new PhD
 students funded under this scheme, focused on trauma-informed social care, and evaluation
 methods in social care interventions.

 3.3 Research income in support of impact activities

 This unit has utilised research (and other types of income) to generate impact.
       In DIGH, income has directly supported UOA20 Impact2001 (Marshall, Bidmead),
        including funding for Teleswallowing (Blackpool NHS Foundation Trust, £15,000),
        Telehealth Adoption (North West Coast Academic Health Science Network, £25,000),
        Fetal Telemedicine (Newcastle NHS Trust, £6,272), Renal Telemedicine (£6,000, North
        West Coast Academic Health Science Network), and case study development Patient
        Knows Best Ltd (£10,275). Bidmead also received an internal allocation from QR Strategic
        Priorities Fund in support of her work on this ICS.
       In USCB, Stuart’s funding from the Foyer Federation (£9,900) directly contributed to her
        work around asset approach to theory of change, the subject of a reserve ICS.
       In MI, Miller received a research grant from the College of Radiographers Industry
        Partnership Scheme (£10,000) to study readiness and resilience in graduate
        radiographers, the subject of an additional reserve ICS. This grant was also underpinned
        by a small internally funded study.
       In TIW, Bates and Taylor received an internal allocation from QR Strategic Priorities Fund
        in support of work related to Impact2002.

 3.4 Campus investments, infrastructure and staff resources

 In support of all this Unit’s research themes, the £9 million Sentamu building at Lancaster campus,
 part funded by the Lancashire Enterprise Partnership (LEP), was opened in September 2017 by
 LEP chairman Edwin Booth. The building, which includes eight teaching rooms, a lecture theatre
 and student facilities, will help support the creation of more than 700 new health and social care
 jobs in the region by 2024. The building has also been used for a number of research lectures and
 events, including in MI and a Diagnostic Radiography Curriculum Development and Workforce
 Recovery conference (July 2019) which presented findings Miller’s funded study as well as
 collaboration with partners evaluating and developing the radiography curriculum.



                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In MI, a Health Education England grant (£395,000) was awarded to UoC for an ‘Ultrasound
 Academy’ centred on the university and working in partnership with two NHS trusts - Morecambe
 Bay NHS Trust and The Countess of Chester NHS Foundation Trust. The award will be used to
 create two dedicated training rooms located in both trusts that will house state-of-the-art
 ultrasound scanners. A subsequent extension bid was granted for £194,000, of which £38,141 will
 be ring-fenced for research, including an evaluation (Miller, 0.2FTE (19/20) and RA 0.1FTE
 (19/20) conference fees, and open access publications.

 UoC has access to a range of strategic partnerships that bring additional resource to IoH and
 CRiHS. These include, for example use of extensive secondary data sets held by Edukit and
 Healthwatch enabling richer research to be undertaken by our staff. Partnerships with the local
 Integrated Care System and Clinical Commissioning Groups both provide access to a wider range
 of research participants (staff and patients) and means to disseminate research findings
 strategically. The NIHR RDS also enhances our capabilities with support to write tenders,
 statistical support and access to Public Involvement and Community Engagement groups. This
 Unit also supported by institutional structures, such as MS Teams and Impact software to support
 research infrastructure (REF5a, 4.3).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Developing links with external organisations, research users and beneficiaries is a key aspect of
 staff development and this is embedded within the CRiHS strategy and developmental activities.
 Staff in this UOA are supported (through RASA time and internal funding) to establish effective
 research collaborations, networks and practice partnerships, and staff increasingly hold esteemed
 positions on strategic boards and networks further enhancing knowledge exchange, often as a
 result of their research activity.

 4.1 Our research is grounded in practice, purpose and application.

 UOA staff have been involved in research collaborations, networks and partnerships, many of
 which extend beyond academia. This is a strength of our applied research within the Unit.
       The TIW theme includes Bates’ work around male victims of domestic violence with impact
        in organisations that support these groups in both England (ManKind Initiative), Scotland
        (Abused Men in Scotland in Edinburgh) and Northern Ireland (Men’s Advisory Project
        Belfast). A recent 2020 publication on the use of Domestic Violence Protection
        Notices/Orders published by PGR Ewin, Bates and Taylor has been seen to have an
        impact in practice through feedback from police and other DV practitioners. Taylor is a
        Committee Member of Carlisle Key, and Bates, a Trustee of male victim’s charity ManKind
        Initiative. Bates’ research has featured in the Huffington Post, and the Daily Telegraph
        with interviews on BBC Inside Out, Channel 4 News, and Channel 5 News. This lead to
        her contribution to a 2020 documentary about male victims of domestic violence on
        Channel 5. Her research also recognised within the UK top 100 breakthroughs by the Made
        at Uni campaign in 2018.
       In HR, Stuart convened the North West Young Researchers Support Group and
        established the National Youth Agency Young Researchers Accredited Programme and is
        on the board of trustees for the youth grant making charity - the Francis C. Scott Charitable
        Trust. Her work on wellbeing development has been adopted by leading national youth
        work charities (Brathay Trust), Cumbria Health and Wellbeing Coaches, teachers and
        youth workers. Erasmus+ funded research led to the Equalities Literacy Model which is
        used to enable practitioners to contextualise the lives of young people, and the Wellbeing,
        Education Learning and Development model for services that support young people.
        These have been co-created with 10 academics and 60 HEI students from the narratives
        of 200 young people. They have been disseminated to over 300 teachers, social workers
        and youth workers via national and international conferences in each country and are
        widely in practice. Stuart’s research has been featured in the News and Star, and NW
        Evening Mail, BBC Radio Cumbria (x3), and Faculti.

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       In USCB, Policek is a Trustee of Recovering Justice and Chair of HIV Scotland, and on
        the Academic Advisory group for Community Justice Scotland. Hardacre is on the steering
        group for the international Collaborative Action Research Network.
       In HASKE, Grimwood and Goodwin regularly contribute to policy and strategic-level
        discussions, as well as wider methodological debates in health and social care evaluation.
        Examples of this include: development of the Morecambe Bay New Care Model vanguard
        (presented as best practice for qualitative research by NHS England); work with the
        Northern Cancer Alliance on improved diagnosis and awareness raising (used by the
        national ACE research team at Oxford); and evaluation of the Maternity Safety Training
        Fund (where their cultural analysis was presented to the Department of Health).
        Grimwood sits on the research advisory board for Hello Future and for FutureU, two
        collaborative outreach organisations funded by the Office for Students.
       In DIGH, staff have engaged in collaborative research with the NENC Clinical Research
        Network and Marshall was an Elected Council member and Director of the Association of
        University Research Industry Links (2014-2015). She is an invited Member of the ESRC
        Innovation Caucus. Marshall’s ESRC funded project - ‘Knowledge Absorption and
        Innovation in SMEs: A Pilot Study by Place and Economic Sector’ led to presentation at
        the International University-Industry Interaction Conference (2020). Marshall also
        delivered at guest lecture at University of Daugavpils (Latvia) about knowledge exchange
        and working with partners (2019).

 On behalf of the University, Stuart leads research social and health inequalities, particularly in the
 era of COVID-19. Significant national research is indicating the reach and impact of COVID-19
 and its control measures are inequitable leading to the need for an equitable rather than equal
 support programme.

 The NIHR NENC ARC has dramatically expanded our research partnerships since 2020 and we
 now have research collaborations with all North East Universities and a range of practice
 organisations (Stuart, and Christie, Hayes).

 4.2 Disseminating research to key beneficiaries is of central importance.

 This coalesces around the alleviation of inequalities, and across this UOA, staff are renowned
 international speakers in the discipline and many of these presentations reach key research users.

       In TIW, Bates has been an invited keynote speaker for the Male Psychology conference
        2019 and the ManKind Initiative annual conference for several years (2016-2020). She
        was also the conference chair for Domestic Abuse Conference: Protecting and supporting
        victims at the University of Salford in 2017. In 2019, Policek was invited as speaker and
        chair of the Atlantic Initiative in Bosnia supported by the government of Norway to work on
        a range of initiative to tackle gender violence in support of Bosnia’ s integration into NATO
        and the European Union.
       In HR, Stuart has been an invited key note speaker at numerous event since 2014
        including nationally at the Foyer Federation National Conference at Aston University in
        2016 and the Great North's Children’s research community conference in Newcastle in
        2019. She has been invited to speak internationally at the Queensland University of
        Technology (2016), the See Change Conference in Toronto (2018) and at Central
        University New York (2020).
       In DIGH, Marshall was invited speaker at AHSN-NENC Telehealth Conference (2015),
        and Forum for Rural Research on Health and Wellbeing at Keele (2017).
       In HASKE, Grimwood provided the invited keynote address for 29th Annual Conference
        of Réseau European de Formation Universitaire en Travail Social (REFUTS) at the
        University of Luxembourg (2018).


                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.3 Social work and social policy are complex and hybrid areas of research demanding
 interdisciplinary research.

 Unit staff all contribute to wider UoC research with interdisciplinary collaborations across the IoH
 and other institutes. This interdisciplinarity is fostered by seeking engagement of all staff in CRiHS
 themes and building developmental phased opportunities for practical collaborations. For
 example, Marshall has presented research at International Digital Health and Care Congress,
 Kings Fund, and was invited as an expert observer and contributor to the All Party Parliamentary
 Group on Rural Health (2018), and co-led the ‘Leading Wellbeing in Rural Contexts’ (2016)
 Conference, Ambleside, with members from Education, Cumbria Constabulary, North Cumbria
 Hospital NHS Trust, Brathay Trust with Peck, Bendell and Murphy (UOA17). This event also
 contributed to the Journal of Corporate Citizenship Special Issue: ‘Leading Wellbeing in Rural
 Contexts’, with guest editors: Marshall and Murphy (UOA17). Stuart organised the UoC Wellbeing
 Conferences 2014-17 working with staff across IoH, and three of UoC’s other Institutes.

 4.4 Staff in the UOA are active journal editors and reviewers across the themes:

       In TIW, Bates is Reviewer for Aggressive Behaviour, Violence and Victims, Journal of
        Interpersonal Violence, Partner Abuse and Taylor reviews for Criminal Justice and
        Behaviour; Journal of Managerial Psychology; Health and Place; Journal of Organisational
        Behaviour.
       In HR Hardacre is reviewer for the Caribbean Journal of Education and Stuart is the
        Reviewer in Chief for the Social Publishing Foundation, and a reviewer and board member
        for Educational Action Research.
       In UCSU Policek reviews for Criminology & Public Policy; European Journal of
        Criminology; Theoretical Criminology; Sociology; International Journal of Transitional
        Justice. Laskey peer reviews the Journal of Interpersonal Violence; Journal of Aggression,
        Conflict and Peace Research; International Journal of Offender Therapy and Comparative
        Criminology.
       In HASKE, Grimwood is reviewer for the Journal of Cultural Research, Journal of Applied
        Hermeneutics, Journal of Integrated Care, Open Philosophy, and The European Legacy.

 Conclusion
 UoC’s contribution to social work and social policy is driven by CRiHS within IoH. The Unit’s
 research, impact and engagement has become a strategic focus for the institution; coalesced
 around inequalities and including a wide range of overlapping themes to reflect the breadth and
 depth of staff experience. CRiHS has achieved significant change in its inaugural year leveraging
 staff engagement in research, research partnerships and income. Into the next assessment
 period, we will focus effort on increasing the number of staff with significant responsibility for
 research, expanding our funding through national grants, and focussing on ECR development to
 accelerate a sustainable and high level of activity, income, networks and impact.




                                                                                               Page 16
