Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Institution: The University of Leeds
 Unit of assessment:
 D26 Modern Languages and Linguistics
 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 a. Context and structure
 The School of Languages, Cultures and Societies (LCS), which sits in the Faculty of Arts,
 Humanities and Cultures (AHC), comprises 90 researchers, each of whom is affiliated to one or
 more of eleven subject areas. Our research strategy, which encompasses a diverse portfolio of
 activity, has been designed and is regularly fine-tuned with an unremitting focus on the pursuit of
 research excellence. We have built on expertise that spans the globe and connects ancient
 civilisations to the present day, in order to generate deep and novel insights into the
 interconnectedness of cultures, languages and societies. This range, gathered in a unified School
 with a coherent approach to research support, enables us to lead international and interdisciplinary
 collaborations while contributing to the deep institutional engagement with the Yorkshire region
 and the UK more widely. Our strategic initiatives, staffing policies, governance structures and
 administrative support have been primed to galvanise these inherent strengths.

 The organisation of research in our large, complex school is depicted in the following diagram:




 Our subject areas offer proactive support for the prosecution of intensive research within
 recognised academic disciplines. These activities are enhanced by colleagues’ participation in
 specialist centres, which we have developed to foster innovation that chimes with current trends
 and new directions of research in the humanities and social sciences. Long established units such
 as the Centre for Dante Studies continue to produce ground-breaking research and secure grant
 capture. For example, Co-Director of the Centre, Federica Pich, is Co-Investigator in the AHRC-
 funded project ‘Petrarch Commentary and Exegesis in Renaissance Italy (c. 1350-c. 1650)
 (funded value to Leeds £290.3k, total funded value £495.6k), which aims to reconstruct the corpus
                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 of the Italian poet Petrarch, creating a freely available and searchable on-line database. The
 Centre for World Cinemas and Digital Cultures, (CWCDC), formerly the Centre for World Cinemas,
 has evolved in such a way that it is now positioned at the forefront of pioneering research in the
 digital humanities. Language@Leeds, led by De Cat, is an interdisciplinary research hub focusing
 on language research and scholarship. With a membership of 112 researchers (including PGRs)
 across four Faculties, it organises its activities around core themes (for example, Pedagogical
 Linguistics, Multimodality, Language Development and Cognition), with LCS staff playing a
 prominent role in each. The Leeds Child Development Unit, managed by C. Davies, brings
 together Leeds researchers who study how children learn to communicate, using innovative
 techniques (such as eye-tracking) in their state-of-the-art laboratory. Our three new Centres
 instigated during this REF period - the Centre for Endangered Languages, Cultures, and
 Ecosystems (CELCE), the Iqbal Centre for the Study of Contemporary Islam, and the Leeds
 Centre for New Chinese Writing - are already in the vanguard of research in their respective fields.

 The diagram on page one also shows how research management is integrated into the
 governance structures of the School. The School Executive Group (SEG) oversees all strategic
 developments. Research is led by the Director of Research and Innovation (DoRI) who chairs the
 Research and Innovation Forum (RIF), which develops strategy and policy, and the Research
 Monitoring Group (RMG), which reviews research performance and provides feedback on
 individuals’ strategic plans. The Director of Impact (DoI) sits on RIF and RMG and works closely
 with the DoRI, and the UoA lead and Deputy UoA lead. All Centre Directors are members of and
 report to RIF, ensuring that these groups contribute to the formulation of School research policy
 and activity at the highest level. Research is supported by an expanded team of administrative
 colleagues (LCS Research Team), complementing provision at Faculty level. The LCS Research
 Team also helps to ensure that research initiatives and activities within the school are aligned with
 opportunities at Faculty and institutional levels.

 LCS not only houses a diversity of research projects but is also home to many different types of
 researcher. Consequently, it has produced durable, flexible policies, creating and sustaining an
 inclusive environment which allows researchers at various stages of their careers, with different
 approaches to their research, to flourish. We identify here three examples which highlight our
 success in nurturing and supporting research excellence across different phases of an academic
 career:
      Working alongside colleagues within the Centre for World Cinemas and Digital Cultures,
         renowned Germanist and senior researcher Paul Cooke incubated novel ideas on the
         social and political applications of film and the value of participative video as a research
         tool. His involvement in an AHRC Networking project, ‘Soft Power, Cinema and the BRICS’
         unlocked the potential in these ideas, which he has since fulfilled in securing funding of
         £2.8m (the fourth largest award of 173) from the AHRC-sponsored Global Challenges
         Research Fund (GCRF) for ‘Changing the Story: Building Civil Society with and for Young
         People in Post Conflict Settings’.

       In order to prosecute her research on the production and reception of contemporary
        Chinese fiction, international sinologist and mid-career scholar Frances Weightman has
        successfully bid for numerous external sources of funding – from the Leverhulme Trust,
        the AHRC, the Ko Foundation in Hong Kong and the Sino-British Fellowship Trust – while

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



        at the same time taking advantage of internal pump-priming schemes such as our Strategic
        Research Development Fund. The School has supported the project at each step of the
        way, resulting in outputs of international quality and high levels of impact. These include
        the Leeds Centre for New Chinese Writing, which was launched in 2018 and quickly
        established itself as the primary digital source of information for scholars of contemporary
        Chinese literature, and the founding of the open access, peer-reviewed journal Writing
        Chinese: A Journal of Contemporary, Sinophone Writing. As described in her REF impact
        case study, Weightman’s research has had impact in the fields of education, in her roles
        as regular consultant for the Department of Education and as specialist advisor to several
        major publishers.

       Early career researcher Fozia Bora’s work on the history of early and medieval Islam
        (notably her specialist knowledge of Mamluk historiography) identifies and elaborates on
        the significance of antecedents to contemporary readings and attitudes. This research,
        which culminated in the completion of a landmark monograph, Writing History in the
        Medieval Islamic World: The Value of Chronicles as Archives (London/New York: I B
        Tauris, 2019), was advanced through Bora’s numerous interactions with the Institute of
        Medieval Studies (IMS), an internationally renowned centre housed in the Faculty of Arts,
        Humanities and Cultures at Leeds. In addition to playing an important part in the evolution
        of Bora’s research, these contacts with the IMS have also enhanced her profile, as
        evidenced by her appearance at the Ilkley Literature Festival in October 2019.

 b. Research and impact strategy during the period
 In 2014, the incorporation of the former department of Classics into the re-named School of
 Languages, Cultures and Societies provided an opportunity to reset our research and impact
 strategy and to identify and develop new strategic priorities. Our overall aims were to sustain the
 strength and vitality of our diverse research culture with its multiple national and international
 research participations, and to enhance the richness of our ambitious research programmes
 through large projects and major publications. Our strategy review in 2015 augmented these
 objectives with the following strategic goals:

       To develop a stronger research identity and sense of inclusivity and community
        across a large and diverse School, tapping into the potential for greater collaboration
        across disciplines and subject areas;

       To achieve greater consistency across LCS in the production of excellent research,
        leading to a substantial increase in the number, quality and success of external
        funding applications;

       To undertake more effective engagement with local, regional, national and
        international non-academic communities, leading to greater impact.

 The plans set out in REF2014 have been implemented as follows:

 Continue to give effective support to individual and collaborative research, and review internal
 levels of resourcing:
      We have made significant investment in research support through the expansion of a
         dedicated administrative team (LCS Research), amounting to an additional £310.6k in this
         REF period. The team now comprises a 0.6 FTE Research Manager and a fixed-term 0.6

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



        FTE Grant Support Postdoctoral Fellow (both at Grade 7), a 1.0 FTE Research Support
        Officer (Grade 5), and two School Research Culture interns.
       We have overhauled our support structures, implemented new processes (for example,
        the Personal Forward Planner system, which helps individual researchers to plan future
        activity strategically), and invested in new academic roles with allocated workload
        allowances worth a combined 6.5 FTE over the period (for example, Grant Advisors,
        Research Mentors, and the Peer Review College).
       We have reconfigured and increased the budget for our internal funding schemes,
        investing approximately £90k per annum in supporting School research activity, disbursed
        strategically across various funds to ensure that colleagues have equitable access to
        money, but also to allow the School to divert funds into key projects.

 Work energetically for the sustainability of all our disciplines and the renewal of our research
 culture
      We have boosted the sustainability of our disciplines through strategic new appointments,
         and through the retention and promotion of staff in and across our subject areas.
      We have consolidated areas of existing excellence, invested in new Centres, and identified
         new cross-School themes, in particular: Multimodality; World Literatures and the
         Translation of Cultures; and World Cinemas.
      Our coherent approach to research management and support across our large, multi-
         faceted school has stimulated more synergies within and between subject areas and our
         Centres, evidenced by the 83% increase in cross-School collaborative grant applications,
         from 23 in the last REF period to 42 in this one.


 Continue to work closely with research funders
     We continue to work in partnership with a range of research funders in shaping future
        funding priorities through responses to solicited views on research strategy, prominent
        membership of UKRI peer review colleges and grant assessment panels, and consultation
        during funder visits.
     We are strongly represented in key advisory groups: Cooke is national moderator for the
        AHRC Network Scheme, De Cat contributed to the final report to the British Academy on
        ‘Cognitive Benefits of Language Learning: Broadening our Perspectives’, Cooke and Fell
        are panellists for the UKRI Future Leadership Fellowship scheme, Rose sits on the Modern
        Languages Review Group, Taberner accepted a two-year secondment as Director of
        International and Interdisciplinary Research at UKRI, and Watson and Richardson (retired
        2017) are Fellows of the British Academy.

 Continue to put strong efforts into European funding applications
     Despite the uncertainty of the European funding landscape during the period, we have
        enjoyed success with a range of European schemes and institutions, demonstrating
        the School’s holistic approach to research support and the pursuit of internationally
        recognised research excellence. Examples of successful EU applications include
        Richardson’s ‘Oral culture, manuscript and print in early modern Italy, 1450-1700’
        (funded value £1.3 million), Babych’s ‘A Hybrid High Quality Translation System’
        (funded value £475.7k), and Kraetzschmar’s involvement in the Framework 7
        MeCoDem project (funded value £52.6k). We have also been awarded three Marie
        Curie fellowships (funded values Aresu £158k; Minguez £152.5k; Bastianes £140k).


                                                                                          Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 c. Future strategic aims and goals
 In the next cycle, and recognising the challenges presented in the post-Brexit and post-COVID
 environments, the School’s strategic research aims are to: enable leading research, which may
 be international, individual, collaborative, disciplinary, interdisciplinary or cross-disciplinary;
 enhance the value of research by pursuing projects that benefit multiple areas of activity
 through grant applications, publications and impact on society; and continue to build a strong
 community of researchers who support each other in their endeavours. To meet these goals we
 will:
       identify and scope out new research topics liable to create opportunities for colleagues to
         start or develop projects, working across the School and beyond it;
       target recruitment of postgraduate and postdoctoral applicants who will drive innovation
         within these shared research topics;
       respond flexibly to the changing research environment by directing resources to those
         areas which best support excellence in research, for example, by monitoring internal
         funding and research leave schemes;
       offer collegiate networking and training events on- and off-line (for example, inaugural
         lectures; showcases; away days; and work-in-progress sessions) and help to protect
         colleagues’ research time (for example, through Structured Writing sessions).


 d. Impact and impact case studies
 A key strategic aim in LCS has been to create and sustain a School culture in which all researchers
 recognise the benefits of embedding impact into their research activities and are actively engaged
 in pursuing it. We encourage experimentation and exploration at all scales, since large-scale
 impact can best be realised by building on the experience and relationships developed through
 smaller events and activities. This is achieved through the leadership of the Director of Impact,
 combined with permanent structural support (see Section 2) and regular School-wide events
 designed to share good practice and help staff see what public engagement and impact can mean
 in ways which relate directly to their own research activities. For example, public engagement and
 impact were the main focus of the School’s 2016 annual Away Day, and our Impact Showcase
 event held in 2018 attracted around fifty colleagues, demonstrating the interest in and commitment
 to undertake impactful research.

 Our selected case studies evidence the success of our impact strategy. Although these are the
 visible highlights of our impact activity, they have emerged from a much wider pool of work and in
 most cases operate in synergy with other research and impact activities. For example, Fell and
 Sharp are responsible not only for their own case studies but for leadership and development of
 the much larger project, Legacies of War: 1914-18/2014-18, which has included activities run by
 LCS researchers Pender (Hartlepool Remembered: Legacies of the Bombardment) and Summers
 (Kriegsgefangen in Skipton). Similarly, Weightman’s case study is part of a larger set of activities
 run by the Leeds Centre for New Chinese Writing, which also functions as a research home for
 early career researcher Dodd, the Deputy Director, and multiple doctoral and postdoctoral
 researchers.

 e. Support for interdisciplinary research



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Interdisciplinarity is at the core of a research culture in a School populated by linguists, historians,
 sociologists, social, political, computer, and data scientists, and experts in cultural and literary
 studies. Within the School, our Centres provide a clear identity and a platform for interdisciplinary
 working, and all our internal, competitive pump-priming schemes are designed to promote
 interdisciplinary research. At institutional level, we benefit from the support of the Interdisciplinary
 Research Development Team (led by Taberner in his capacity as the University Dean for
 Interdisciplinary Research), and LCS staff are also closely involved with the University’s Culture
 theme – one of the University's six interdisciplinary research themes introduced in 2016. In
 particular, Fell runs the Conflict, Memory and Trauma sub-theme and De Cat co-leads the
 Language and Culture sub-theme. At Faculty level, the Leeds Arts and Humanities Research
 Institute (LAHRI, run by Fell from 2017 to 2020) hosts a range of activities, from ‘speculative
 lunches’ and seminar series through to major international conferences.

 We have capitalised on such wide-ranging support to expand our interdisciplinary research during
 the period (see Section 3). LCS colleagues have enjoyed considerable success with LAHRI’s
 competitive pump priming funds (gaining 33% of all awards during the period) and the Sadler
 Seminar Series (50% of awards). These have, in turn, evolved into funding successes - for
 example, De Cat’s ‘Quantifying bilingual experience: optimising tools for educators, clinicians and
 researchers’, ESRC (funded value £616k), and Kim’s ‘Hematopolitics: A Comparative Study’,
 Wellcome Trust (funded value £27k) - as well as major publications (Cornils, Silverman), and the
 creation of one of our new centres (Iqbal Centre).

 f. Open research environment
 The School was quick to embrace the opportunities presented by Open Access and has been
 operating an Open Access policy since 2014. All colleagues are briefed regularly (at custom
 events and as part of wider agendas at awaydays and other training) on the benefits of the system,
 and internal funds (at University or School level) are made available to cover APCs where
 appropriate. The LCS Research Team assists with the practicalities of complying with Open
 Access, including advising on rules and regulations, liaising with publishers, and uploading
 publications to the White Rose Research Online (WRRO), a repository which is shared by the
 universities of Leeds, York and Sheffield. LCS publications have been downloaded from WRRO
 over 95,000 times from 184 countries. All colleagues are strongly encouraged to apply for an
 ORCiD as part of the School policy.

 Several colleagues in the School are ambassadors for the Open Science Movement, pre-
 registering their studies and running training sessions on reproducibility. Research data and
 analysis scripts are routinely uploaded to repositories where appropriate (e.g., UK Data Archive;
 the Open Science Framework). PGRs and postdoctoral researchers (PDRs) working on relevant
 projects are trained in the principles of open science, such as the role of open data, improving
 transparency, reviewing research design, and blinded analysis pipelines.

 g. Research integrity
 LCS colleagues have contributed to the consultation on the Concordat to Support Research
 Integrity, and the School is currently leading the creation of a Faculty policy on Authorship. This
 will update and tailor the general guidelines from the Committee on Publication Ethics that the
 School currently uses, and will serve as a model for other Schools in the Faculty. The School’s

                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 ethics policy requires that all projects undergo ethical review via the Faculty Research Ethics
 Committee. This aligns with the wider University policy. LCS colleagues who have sat on that
 committee (C. Davies, Fielder, Sheikh, Platten) offer advice to applicants on all stages of the
 ethical process, including project planning, ethics applications, data management, and follow-up
 auditing.

 Section 2. People

     a. Staffing and recruitment policy
 The School’s approach to staffing over the period reflects our strategic priorities, which are to
 secure talent and support interdisciplinarity. We have maintained a balance of subject-specific and
 cross-School appointments to ensure critical mass and sustainability in all areas, while also
 investing in new posts to strengthen connections and promote more collaborative working across
 the School.

 Since the last REF we have made 14 ongoing appointments from early career level through to
 chair. These include replacement posts and new investment posts. For example, we have
 appointed colleagues at different career points who enrich the existing disciplinary base and who
 also complement LCS themes with their interdisciplinary expertise and networks, such as Tomé
 Lourido, Jarman, Wright, Kim and Wang.

 We have also created new posts to boost the work of our cross-School Centres, for example
 lectureships in Comparative Literatures (White), Intercultural Competence (Santello) and Arabic,
 Translation and Interpreting (El Farahaty), in addition to a cross-Faculty post (LCS and English)
 in Caribbean Poetry and Decolonial Thought (Allen-Paisant, from September 2020). Of particular
 note is our investment in the University’s Academic Fellows scheme (UAF), which was a University
 of Leeds initiative to attract ‘250 of the world’s great minds’. UAFs are allocated enhanced
 research time, with the expectation that they will satisfy the criteria for promotion to Grade 9 after
 5 years. They are supported in building cross-University networks and preparing major grant
 applications. The School has attracted three of these scholars to help develop our key themes:
 Adami (Multimodality), Koutsourakis (World Cinemas), and Blakesley (World Literatures and
 Translation of Cultures).

 Retention and promotion of excellent researchers has been a key feature of our staffing strategy.
 We have internally promoted 16 colleagues to Professor during the period (Brown-Grant,
 Cleminson, Cornils, De Cat, Dennison, O’Leary, Pitman, Salhi, Seeger, Sharp, Smith, E. Stafford,
 Treherne, Wang, Waters, and Wheeler), 18 to Associate Professor (Alonso, Babych, Blakesley,
 Bora, C. Davies, Finch, Goodman, Hanna Soliman, Hayter, Hodkinson, Hudspith, Kraetzschmar,
 May, Pich, Magro Ramos Pinto, Santovetti, Sulis, White) and have successfully converted a
 number of staff on fixed-term to permanent contracts (Allen-Paisant, Blakesley, Pich, Baldini,
 White, Dodd, Jarman, and Hodkinson). Three of these have subsequently been promoted to
 Associate Professor (White, Pich, Hodkinson), and four have enjoyed large and/or prestigious
 grant success Pich (AHRC and Humboldt); Hodkinson and White (both Leverhulme); and Dodd
 (AHRC).

 We have actively sought to increase the number of PDRs during this REF period, by implementing
 robust pre-application processes for external fellowships and postdoctoral schemes, and by
                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 embedding funding for postdoctoral research assistants (PDRAs) into our larger grant
 applications. We have recruited nine postdoctoral fellows, funded by the Leverhulme Trust, the
 British Academy, Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions, and the Dutch Research Council (NWO), in
 addition to over 20 PDRAs affiliated with our large research projects and Centres.

 Our PDRs are active members of our community and have enriched our research environment
 through event organisation and participation, public engagement and impact activities, and
 publications (co-authored with supervisors or individually). They have enjoyed some notable
 achievements:

       Painter won the University of Leeds ‘Delivering Research in Partnership’ award in 2018 for
        her collaborative work with cultural and gender historians in German Studies and theatre
        company Bent Architect as part of Sharp’s World War 1 project.

       Read was the seminar series organiser for the Legacies of War project, and Chair and
        founding member of the First World War Network which supports Early Career and
        Postgraduate Researchers in conjunction with the AHRC Public Engagement Centres.

       Lingwood, PDRA in the Leeds Child Development Unit, acted as consultant to the BBC’s
        Tiny Happy People programmes.

 Many of our PDRs have gone on to take up research-active posts (universities of Amsterdam,
 Cardiff, Durham, Florence, Leeds, Liverpool Hope, and New South Wales), or have pursued
 postdoctoral positions elsewhere (universities of Ca’ Foscari, Lancaster, and Radboud).

 The School has proactively developed a range of support mechanisms, captured in a School policy
 ‘Research Support for Teaching and Scholarship Colleagues’, which is in line with Vitae’s
 Researcher Development Concordat recommendations. This articulates our commitment to
 support the research career development of staff who are not yet on permanent and/or research-
 active contracts, but who wish to move in that direction. These measures include bespoke support
 provided by designated School Research Mentors, membership of the School’s Early Career
 Researcher (ECR) network, and access to training and to internal funds to support their research
 projects.


     b. Support for career development at all stages
 We support staff at all career stages and on all contract types (including fixed-term and part-time).
 The standard means for staff development is through the probation process (in the first year of
 employment), followed by the annual Staff Development and Review Scheme (SRDS) which helps
 staff to set agreed career objectives over the short and long terms. We also provide support for
 career development specific to research and impact through the following processes and
 schemes:

       Our Personal Forward Planner (PFP), which all research-active staff complete annually
        and discuss with their Subject Research Leader, was designed by members of the School
        and subsequently adopted in other parts of the University. A highly effective developmental
        and planning tool, it helps staff plan and prioritise their research and impact plans over a
        five-year period, and collates key information to help the School develop and implement
                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



        specific areas of its strategic plan (for example, grant income strategy, teaching and
        workload planning) over the same period.

       Our School-managed Research Mentoring scheme allocates to every research-active
        colleague a mentor from within the School, whose duties include meetings at least once
        per semester, commenting on draft publications and grant applications, advising on
        strategic career planning, and facilitating networks. Colleagues who are not contractually
        research-active, but who maintain active research profiles in their own time, may also avail
        themselves of a School Research Mentor on request, as part of the School’s response to
        Vitae’s Concordat, and in recognition of the teaching-only nature of some ECR contracts.

       Research-active staff access advice and support for their grant and impact plans from the
        team of four specialist Grant Advisors, who are members of LCS staff with considerable
        grant capture and impact experience. The Grant Advisors circulate funding calls and
        initiatives, offer tailored advice on the full range of funding schemes, provide feedback on
        draft applications, and run information and training sessions (for example, workshops on
        strategic use of research time, grant application training, and interdisciplinary and Social
        Scientists’ networking events).

       LCS researchers can also access a range of internal funds, including: an individual £900
        Research Support Fund (for research trips and conference attendance); a Strategic
        Research Development Fund (up to £2000 for pump-priming of significant research
        activity); a Publications Fund (for indexing or translation costs); and a Light Touch/Rapid
        Response fund (small awards up to £250 for late notice opportunities).

       We have also pursued ways of maximising colleagues’ activity during their contracted
        research time, having identified the fragmentation of research time as a challenge to
        productivity and well-being. These include the entitlement to one protected research day
        per week for every research-active colleague, the provision of our new Structured Writing
        programme (a twice-weekly scheduled time slot which facilitates academic writing of all
        types, with networking and reflection time built in), and the timetabling of bespoke training
        events to promote the centrality of research. These include sessions on research
        productivity and on repurposing unsuccessful grant bids.


 Beyond this general support for all research-active staff, we also have dedicated processes for
 ECRs and PDRs, regardless of contract type. On arrival, ECRs and PDRs attend a research
 induction meeting led by the Research Team (including DoRI) and are allocated a Research
 Mentor and staff reviewer (for probation and appraisal purposes). The ECR representative (Bora,
 Jarman) - a long-standing role which was allocated workload credits in January 2019 - works
 closely with DoRI, the Research Team, and the Grant Advisors to offer vision, advocacy, and
 support for ECRs across the School. They maintain regular communication with other ECRs,
 disseminate information about funding and training opportunities, arrange research and social
 activities, and represent the ECR community on appropriate School committees. The School
 maintains a dedicated ECR mailing list, for the promotion of relevant opportunities and information.
 The School also ensures that key schemes supporting researcher development have ECR-
 oriented opportunities, for example the Strategic Leave Scheme, which encourages applications
                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 for timely ECR grant projects, and the Strategic Research Development Fund, which prioritises
 ECR development in terms of awarding funds. In introducing the Strategic Leave (see 2c) and
 Strategic Research Development Schemes, and with the Researcher Development Concordat in
 mind, the School ensured that colleagues on either Teaching and Research, or Teaching and
 Scholarship contracts are entitled to apply to both schemes. This decision was the result of a
 conscious effort to support the scholarship activities of our staff, but also to support the research
 profiles of colleagues who might wish to be transferred to research-active contracts in the future,
 either at Leeds or elsewhere.


     c. Policy for research and impact leave
 LCS recognises the essential role of regular research leave in a fruitful research career and in
 serving the LCS strategic research aims. The School has an established standard workload
 allocation of 33% for colleagues with responsibility for research, and all staff are eligible to apply
 for one semester (or equivalent) of research leave every seventh semester.

 We have also introduced a range of new or revised schemes designed to allow staff to dedicate
 time to research at crucial and strategically important moments. The schemes help to ensure that
 colleagues can respond flexibly to research deadlines, whether they be publisher- or funder-
 driven. For example, our new competitive Strategic Leave scheme (established in 2016 to
 complement standard School and competitive Faculty leave periods) provides workload relief for
 colleagues to pursue ambitious research initiatives such as major grant applications, completion
 of monographs or development of major impact work. Six colleagues have benefited from this
 scheme thus far, including House who was awarded Strategic Leave to develop his impact case
 study.

 We also draw from a range of Faculty funding schemes to provide matched periods of research
 leave (31 in total awarded over the period), international mobility (9 awards since the scheme
 started in 2018), and international conference attendance (55 awards since 2015).


      d. Procedures to stimulate exchange between academia and external sectors
 Over the REF period, both the University and the School have made substantial investments in
 the establishment of links between academia and external sectors. Evidence of this can be seen
 at a University level with the creation of the Cultural Institute (led by Finlay as Dean of Cultural
 Engagement), Nexus, and the Public Engagement Team, as well as in a significant revision of the
 promotions criteria (that is, research-track promotions from Grade 8 upwards include criteria
 relating to collaborative research, innovation and/or knowledge exchange with organisations,
 industry, government, public and third sectors). Appropriate recognition of the work of colleagues
 in this area has further incentivised collaboration.

 LCS researchers regularly engage with and benefit from the Cultural Institute’s programme of
 activities and funding initiatives. For example, the School has won 22 awards from the Ignite
 scheme (designed to enhance collaboration with external partners) over the period. Partners for
 these Ignite-funded projects have been local (Leeds International Film Festival, Opera North, the
 West Yorkshire Playhouse, Leeds Museums and Galleries and Skipton Libraries and Museums),
 national (the British Film Institute, UK national examination boards, the National Holocaust Centre,

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 the Institute of Contemporary Arts) and international (the Institut Français, the European
 Observatory on Health Systems and Policies, the Spanish rap artist El Chojin, the Brazilian arts
 and culture NGO Thydêwá, and the Thai Health Promotion Foundation).

 LCS researchers have likewise made extensive use of the Cultural Institute’s Creative Labs
 scheme, which provides funding, inspiration, opportunities and unstructured co-creative space to
 build external partnerships. Successful applications to this scheme have allowed our researchers
 to build and develop partnerships with an artist-director (Strukov, 2012), a filmmaker (Blackmore,
 2014), a tenor from Opera North (O’Leary, 2015), a director of RJC Dance (A Stafford and Salhi,
 2017), and a poet and creative practitioner (Nelson, 2020).

     e. Support for and recognition of impact
 Our internal research support and monitoring policies are geared to help staff generate impact
 through their research. Impact is built into our thinking and planning through the PFP system, and
 staff may draw on advice and support from the DoI, their Subject Research Leaders, Research
 Mentor and Grant Advisors as they bring their plans to fruition. Much of the School’s internal
 sources of funding target the development of impact activity as well as the production of research
 outputs.

 An identifiable trajectory can be traced between School or University support structures and case
 study selection. Of our selected case study authors, Seeger, Sharp, Watson and Weightman have
 all been awarded funding through the School’s Strategic Research Development Fund scheme
 for impact activities during the current REF cycle. Likewise, Cooke, Fell, Seeger, Sharp and
 Watson have also been successful in securing Ignite funding from the University’s Cultural
 Institute.

 News of research and impact success is widely publicised throughout the School via the Head of
 School’s periodic School-wide emails, our LCS Research Bulletins, or publicity in the Research
 sections of our School website, and colleagues who have acquired expertise are invited to share
 it at impact events. For example, House, Seeger and Watson presented their work at the School’s
 Impact Showcase, thereby ensuring that other members of the School could benefit from the best
 practice examples contained in our current case studies.


      f. Research students
 The School takes a proactive and rigorous approach to doctoral recruitment nationally and
 internationally, providing high-quality supervision, support and training. We have registered 326
 PhD and 13 MAR students during this REF period, and have doubled the number of PhD awards
 from 72 to 182. Of our 144 PhD students currently registered, 73% were successful in attracting
 full or partial funding to support their studies, of whom 14% won awards from UK funders including
 the ESRC, AHRC and Leverhulme Trust. 19% were successful in winning internal University,
 Faculty or School-level funding, and 65% of our 105 externally-funded students won international
 scholarships awarded by government schemes from countries including Saudi Arabia, Egypt,
 Malaysia, Oman, Ecuador, Thailand, Algeria, Pakistan and China.

 We run information sessions to identify and recruit from our existing PGT and MAR pool, in
 addition to University and School open days for external recruitment. There are clusters of high

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 recruitment in certain subject areas, especially those where external funding is available, for
 example in Arabic, Islamic and Middle Eastern Studies, Translation Studies, East Asian Studies,
 and Linguistics. PGR recruitment was boosted by the inauguration of the AHRC-supported White
 Rose College of the Arts and Humanities (WRoCAH) doctoral training centre, through which
 funding for postgraduate research is devolved to the best candidates from the universities of York,
 Sheffield and Leeds. LCS has won WRoCAH funding for 17 PhD scholarships across all our
 subject areas, including three network scholarships and one collaborative doctoral award with
 LeedsFilm. The burgeoning national and international reputations of our Centres have also acted
 as a magnet for PGR (and postdoctoral) recruitment over the period. For example, the Leeds
 Centre for New Chinese Writing has attracted six doctoral researchers, four visiting doctoral
 researchers (from China and New Zealand), and five postdoctoral researchers, three of whom
 were externally funded by the Chinese Scholarships Council. Similarly, the Centre for World
 Cinemas and Digital Cultures has recruited six PGRs and hosted two postdoctoral visitors.

 An increasing number of our PGRs are co-supervised not only across the various subject areas
 of the School and Faculty, but also across Faculties (for example, with the School of Earth and
 Environment, Politics and International Studies (POLIS), Sociology, and Geography), and across
 the White Rose institutions. These inter-school and cross-Faculty/institution partnerships give
 students access to different disciplinary contexts for their interests, with opportunities to
 incorporate different methodologies into their research and thus embed interdisciplinarity in their
 projects.

 All PGRs are monitored and supported throughout their time with us. The School advocates
 team supervision (normally a primary supervisor and at least one co-supervisor or mentor) and
 adheres to the University guidance that students must attend a minimum of 10 supervision
 meetings per year, which are recorded in the new University-wide Graduate Record of
 Achievement and Development (GRAD) online system. Each PGR also meets with the Director of
 Graduate Studies individually on an annual basis to review progress and discuss supervision
 received, providing an opportunity for the student to raise any concerns without prejudice.

 In terms of skills development, all PGRs undertake a School-run training course in the first year
 of their studies, in addition to any further training as determined by the Training Needs Analysis
 carried out with their supervisory team. LCS PGRs have access to training events run by
 Organisational Development and Professional Learning (OD&PL), the Library, IT Services, the
 English Language Unit, and the Leeds Doctoral College (a major University initiative, established
 and run by LCS colleague Honess). Discipline-specific training is provided by Language@Leeds
 which runs advanced research methods training programmes, covering statistical modelling,
 experimental design, and reproducibility. Our PGRs attend WRoCAH and ESRC White Rose
 Doctoral Training Centre events, as well as those offered by other Faculties at Leeds (for example,
 the Faculty of Social Sciences). Our students have also benefited from professional development
 training through the WRoCAH Researcher Employability Projects scheme. For example, Carr
 secured a placement at the National Film Archive in Prague, Gowan worked with charitable
 organisations in China, and Johnson was based at IMZ International Music and Media Centre in
 Vienna.

 With the aim of fortifying the well-being of our PGRs, we have introduced a School-wide monthly
 ‘Tea and Talk’ event (where PGRs can join staff in an informal setting to discuss PhD-related
                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 issues or just to socialise), launched a PGR Reflective Group (a joint venture with the School of
 English), and, in 2018, introduced a Peer Mentoring Scheme (facilitated by OD&PL). Beyond
 LCS, PGRs can make use of a wide range of University support structures that cover finance,
 (mental) health, and international student support.

 Recognising that postgraduate research is often a solitary activity, we have put the intellectual
 and social welfare of our PGR students at the forefront of our concerns. In addition to participating
 in the activities of one or more of the School’s research centres, our PGRs have developed their
 own research and impact networks, reading and study groups. The PGR Conference Fund
 launched by LCS in 2015 enables PGRs to organise workshops and conferences with a view to
 inviting leading academics and PGRs from across the UK to present their work. For example, we
 have funded postgraduate conferences on ‘Borders and Boundaries’ (2015,) ‘Imagining the Body
 in France & the Francophone World’ (2017), and ‘The Ethics of Italian Resistance’ (2018) and
 have supported workshops on a range of subjects including translating and interpreting,
 methodological concerns in East Asian Studies research, and multimodality and social semiotics.

 We have also established two internally-funded PGR Research Culture Internships tasked with
 supporting and coordinating School-wide research activities and events, including the Structured
 Writing programme, and work-in-progress sessions. A third PGR intern role has been created to
 support the weekly PGR training sessions. These various training and support initiatives have
 helped to professionalise our PGR community, equipping them with a range of skills in
 preparation for future careers. Many of our PGRs have gone on to academic careers in the UK
 (for example, at the Universities of Bristol, Cambridge, Durham, Edinburgh, Hull, Lancaster,
 Leeds, London (IMLR), and Manchester), Europe (for example, Tours, Valencia, and New York
 University in Florence), the United States (Alabama), the Middle East (universities of Jordan, Hafr
 Al Batin, King Faisal, Qassim, Sakarya, Sharjah, and Tabouk) and East Asia (the universities of
 Chongqing, Hangzhou Dianzu, and Sun Yat-sen in China; Universiti Putra Malaysia; Prince of
 Songkla University and Silkpakorn University in Thailand; and Sendai University in Japan).

      g. Equality and diversity
 Support for Equality and Diversity is integral to our processes and structures and is guided by the
 University’s Equality and Inclusion Framework, the Statement on Dignity and Mutual Respect, and
 the Leeds Gender Framework. The School’s Equality and Inclusion officers (Finch, Bora) have
 raised awareness of opportunities and organised training sessions (for example, Implicit Bias
 training). Bespoke support for colleagues, for example from Research Mentors or Grant Advisors,
 underlines our commitment to diverse research agendas rather than to the promotion of single
 models of research success. To ensure inclusivity, the Structured Writing sessions are run on
 different days and at different times of day, and events (such as training sessions) are organised
 to take place between 10am and 4pm (embedded in the LCS guidelines on running events). We
 have also provided support for disabilities/protected characteristics on a case-by-case basis (for
 example, through the provision of a postdoctoral assistant and bespoke software).

 We have a diverse staffing profile and a near 50/50 gender balance. Nearly all our 13 female
 professors have been internal promotions (one – Cayley – is an external appointment to the role
 of Head of School in this period). Three have been awarded the prestigious University of Leeds
 Women of Achievement Award (Watson 2015, Fell 2016, and Honess 2018). Two colleagues have
 attended the Aurora Leadership programme.
                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 In revising the School’s research leave arrangements for research-active colleagues, specific
 consideration was given to Equality and Diversity issues. Consequently, all research-active
 colleagues are entitled to apply for study leave as standard regardless of their FTE. Moreover,
 colleagues continue to accrue time towards their next period of study leave while on any periods
 of parental, carers and/or sick leave, ensuring that these circumstances minimise any inherent
 disadvantage. In response to COVID-19, we have moved our research support systems online,
 and have taken a flexible approach to the needs of staff who have caring or home-schooling
 responsibilities.

 All team members involved in constructing the REF portfolio have completed Equality and
 Inclusion training and undertaken the Equality Impact assessment in line with the University’s
 Code of Practice.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

     a. Income
 The changes to our support structures for research and impact have had a considerable influence
 on the number and breadth of grant applications. Our overall research income of just under £8m,
 compared with £5m in REF2014, evidences our commitment to our strategic objectives and our
 success in meeting the challenges of a shifting and uncertain research funding environment.
 Commensurate with our objective of broadening the base of researchers applying for external
 funding, the total number of grant applications during this REF period was 473 compared to 376
 in the last, and 85% of staff have submitted at least one external grant application, spanning all
 areas of the School. We have seen an 18% increase in the number of people who have had one
 or more successful grant applications, and we have doubled the number of grants of £100k or
 over from 16 to 32. The number of staff acting as Co-Is on University of Leeds-led grants has
 increased to 61 during this period from 17 in the last, which shows how we are working more
 collaboratively across the institution.

 We have successfully applied to 18 new funders (13 of whom are international), in line with our
 various initiatives to diversify our funding sources. We have won awards from five of the six UK
 Research Councils, as well as from Innovate UK and UKRI, and the British Council, Wellcome
 Trust, Leverhulme Trust and British Academy. Non-UK funders include the EU, the Swedish
 Research Council, Riksbankens Jubileumsfond, Google Inc, the Japan Society for the Promotion
 of Science, the Chiang Ching-Kuo Foundation, and Stanford University.

 We have seen a step change in the number of applications to AHRC (64 in REF2014, 84 for
 REF2021), and our per annum income from AHRC has increased significantly over the period,
 from £317k in 2014/15 to £851.5k in 2019/20. We have performed consistently well with
 Leverhulme funding, growing our applications from 11 (2014) to 16 (2020), receiving an award
 each year since 2014. We also continue to enjoy success with the British Academy, for example,
 through the postdoctoral fellowship scheme (Bahmad, funded value £247k, and Marcus, funded
 value £306k), and through 13 successful mid-range and small grant applications (including
 Dickins, Heath, May, Pitman, Plug, Santovetti, Thurston, Watson, and Zhang).



                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Prestigious awards at the level of individual researcher have resulted in major publications,
 including: monographs by Cleminson (AHRC), Taberner (Leverhulme and AHRC), Brown-Grant
 (Leverhulme), Waters (AHRC), Watson (Leverhulme), and a series of articles by Plug
 (Leverhulme) and C. Davies (ESRC). Collaborative projects have resulted in co-edited multi-
 volume works, for example Silverman’s four-volume ‘concentrationary’ project (with Pollock,
 funded by AHRC), E. Stafford’s four-volume Hercules project (funded by an AHRC network grant),
 and Atack, Holmes and Fell’s two-volume project on French feminisms (AHRC).

 The strategy for supporting and developing staff within the School has also led to significant
 success in grant capture for research with a clear impact agenda. Many of our impact case
 studies are integral parts of research projects which have attracted major external funding, several
 of which have been specifically geared towards supporting impact activity such as AHRC Follow-
 on Funding for Impact and Public Engagement (for example, Fell, Cooke, Sharp and Weightman).
 The inherently international nature of our research is exemplified by the following funded projects
 which also have strong impact outcomes:

       Dennison’s AHRC Research Network ‘Soft Power, Cinema and the BRICS’ (funded value
        £31.8k) focused on placing culture (film specifically) as an important contributing factor in
        establishing soft power profiles for key emerging nations (Brazil, Russia, India, China and
        South Africa). Outputs from this project included two short films, documenting aspects of
        the network’s findings, screened at the Durban International Film Festival and the Brazilian
        2019 BRICS film festival, two special editions of journals, two edited volumes, four chapters
        and eight articles.

       Strukov’s project on ‘Visuality Without Visibility’ (Swedish Research Council, Strukov Co-
        Investigator, funded value Leeds share £125k), explores the history of queer visuality in
        Russian arts and media, and its appropriation by the government, disabling queer visibility
        and disempowering LGBTQ communities in their struggle for civil rights. Outputs to date
        include events at Chatham House and Mimosa House, and collaborative work with the
        Garage Museum of Contemporary Art and film-maker Seva Galkin.

 In line with our REF2014 strategy, we have also focused on developing larger, collaborative
 projects which showcase our international and interdisciplinary reach:
       Taberner leads on ‘PRAXIS: Arts and Humanities for Global Challenges’, a £1m strand of
         the GCRF-funded ‘Changing the Story’ project, which aims to amplify the impact and policy
         relevance of all GCRF projects and to champion the distinctive contribution that arts and
         humanities research can make to tackle urgent global development challenges. Working
         with such partners as UNESCO and the British Council, events include conferences on
         key themes including Transforming Conflict and Displacement, Heritage, Resilience, and
         Health.

       Finch, in her Co-I role on ‘Performing the Jewish Archive’ (AHRC, School share £391k,
        funded value to Leeds £1.5m), focused on seeking out, preserving and publicising ‘Jewish
        Archives’ from across the world. Project partners included the universities of York, Sydney
        and Wisconsin-Madison. Finch is completing a major monograph on Holocaust literature
        in German.

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




       De Cat’s ESRC-funded project ‘Quantifying bilingual experience: optimising tools for
        educators, clinicians and researchers (Q-BEx)’ (funded value £616k) is the first
        multidisciplinary endeavour to establish an effective metric of bilingual language
        experience in children. In collaboration with HE institutions in France (Tours), the
        Netherlands (Radboud) and the UK (Reading), the project is running an international
        Delphi consensus survey, with the participation of 164 researchers and practitioners
        from 31 countries.


 Large projects ongoing from the previous period which have come to completion in this period
 include:

       The ‘Legacies of War Centenary project’, led by Fell, working with LCS colleague Sharp,
        and colleagues across the University who have research interests in different aspects of
        the First World War. Members of the project have participated in and helped to coordinate
        a series of events and activities that took place across Leeds in 2014-19 in collaboration
        with over 50 partners. The events, which commemorated and explored different histories
        of the First World War, examined its multiple historical, cultural and social legacies. Fell
        has since published a monograph – Women as Veterans in Britain and France after the
        First World War (Cambridge University Press, 2018) – and is currently Principal
        Investigator of the £64k AHRC-funded project ‘Tracing the Belgian Refugees’, while Sharp
        is Principal Investigator for the £154.8k (funded value) follow-on AHRC-funded project,
        ‘’Kiel Uprising: Women’s activism and the German Revolution November 1918.’

       Richardson’s ERC Advanced Researcher award of £1.3m (funded value) for the project
        ‘Oral Culture, Manuscript and Print in Early Modern Italy, 1450-1700’ completed during the
        period. Under Richardson’s leadership, the project brought together a team of six
        postdoctoral researchers to explore the role of the spoken and sung word in transmitting
        information, opinions and texts in the society of early modern Italy. The project produced
        two edited volumes, three special issues of journals, and 28 journal articles.

       The AHRC-funded project ‘Dante and Late Medieval Florence: Theology in Poetry,
        Practice and Society’ led by Treherne (PI) and Honess (Co-I) ran from 2012 to 2017
        (funded value £800k), and included two PDRAs, two funded PhDs and a dedicated cultural
        engagement fellow. Working with colleagues in the UK, United States and Italy, the project
        explored the multiple experiences of theology in late-medieval Italy and examined the way
        in which Dante engaged with the forms of these experiences in his Commedia. The project
        produced eight publications and two open access theses, online tutorials and podcasts,
        UNESCO-produced materials aimed at tourists in Florence, and a series of public
        engagement activities (see Section 4).


     b. Infrastructure and facilities
 In terms of organisational infrastructure, numerous institution-wide initiatives such as the
 University Academic Fellow scheme and Leeds Scholarships for PGRs, the establishment of the
 Cultural Institute and the Leeds Doctoral College, appointments of dedicated impact support staff,
                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 and the creation of the Public Engagement team have engineered a step change in our research
 and impact activities. We receive strong support from University- and Faculty-level services with
 the development of grant applications. For example, the University Research and Innovation
 Service (RIS), LAHRI, the AHC Research and Finance Team, OD&PL impact specialists and the
 Faculty Impact Officer provide extensive advice and guidance at all stages of the grant application
 process. Both LAHRI and RIS offer dedicated staff training and/or support processes for certain
 key schemes and funders, which upskills colleagues and has subsequently had a positive effect
 on our success rates. Examples include a supportive internal process for UKRI Future Leaders
 Fellowship applicants, as well as for certain ESRC schemes.

 Our strategic decision to expand our Research Team has transformed our operational
 infrastructure, removing much of the burden of administrative research support work from
 academic colleagues, and providing the necessary resource to support, maintain and revise the
 School’s research policies, procedures and initiatives, ensuring that they are optimally configured
 to support the School’s research goals. For example, the Team provides the practical day-to-day
 support for the Structured Writing programme, School funds, research leave scheduling, and
 external grant applications. LCS research policies and processes are designed to ensure
 transparency and equality of access, and to respond flexibly to support research excellence in all
 categories across the School. Improved collection, storage and analysis of data which the Team
 facilitates also supports the strategic planning for the School, ensuring that decisions are based
 on accurate evidence, with the additional advantage that these plans are also then measurable.

 The School benefits from an outstanding scholarly infrastructure. The Brotherton Library houses
 over 3 million books and films, 2 million manuscripts, and extensive digitalised resources. We have
 particularly strong collections in French, Russian, Chinese, Medieval and Renaissance
 manuscripts, and Special Collections such as the Liddle Collection (used for the Legacies of War
 project), the collection on Cupid and Psyche (used for May’s British Academy-funded project), the
 Jon Silkin archive (used for Munday and Blakesley’s co-edited volume), the Leeds Russian
 Archive, and the Chinese thread-bound volumes (which have attracted researchers from Fudan
 University, Shanghai). The Laidlaw and Edward Boyle libraries provide us with valuable space for
 our Structured Writing sessions, our staff and PGR training activities, and our impact events.

 We also benefit from two University theatre spaces: the Banham Theatre and the Alec Clegg
 Studio in Stage@Leeds, which have been used extensively by Li in her Staging China project.
 Within the School, research in translation studies is supported with two state-of-the-art Translation
 and Subtitling Laboratories, with regularly updated hardware and professional specialist software
 for translation, project management, machine translation, intra- and interlingual subtitling, video
 editing, and subtitling with voice recognition.

 LCS also has two Interpreting Facilities that include 15 single and double professional interpreting
 booths equipped with cutting-edge touch screen equipment and a video interpreting conferencing
 system. These purpose-designed spaces promote collaboration with universities around the world,
 and facilitate impact and knowledge-transfer activities with key industry partners, namely
 international organisations such as the EU Commission and Parliament; UN agencies such as
 Food and Agricultural Organisation (Italy), United Nations System Staff College (Italy) and
 International Maritime Organisation (London); translation companies such as VSI, ZOO Digital,

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 SINTAGMA; professional associations such as the Institute of Translation and Interpreting and the
 Portuguese Audiovisual Translators’ Association; and finally, NGOs such as Translators without
 Borders and RESCUE. Linguistics hosts a laboratory for experimental language research, with
 two state-of-the-art eye-trackers, specialist phonetics measurement equipment, a recording
 studio, and specialist software. Language@Leeds curates a shared library of standardised
 language tests and scripts for experiment design and data analysis, and the Leeds Child
 Development Unit provides a purpose-designed space to test children, maintaining a participant
 pool of over 700 local families.

 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

      a. Collaboration and engagement with key research users, beneficiaries and
         audiences
 The structures and support mechanisms in LCS, the Faculty and University described in Section
 2 have enabled us to achieve our strategic aims of promoting greater collaboration both within
 our institution but also nationally and internationally, and of increasing our level of engagement
 with external partners. Moreover, our policy of promoting the advantages of embedding impact
 in the developmental phases of research initiatives has helped to broaden and enlarge the range
 and number of our interactions with communities outside of academia, which include cultural
 organisations such as museums and performing arts companies, government and non-
 government agencies, charities, private sector industries, public sector organisations and
 stakeholder groups. These have been genuine partnerships, two-way streets of knowledge and
 insights which, as in the cases highlighted below, have transformed our research environment,
 introducing new patterns of thought and sweeping away preconceived notions of what our
 research might achieve.

 Working with NGOs and community groups to raise awareness and change attitudes:
    The core impact goals of the Transnational Holocaust Memory project led by Taberner,
       Cooke, Finch and Finlay have been to develop effective ways for diverse communities to
       register the significance of the holocaust, by using holocaust commemoration as a means
       of confronting difficult pasts in other countries. Taberner’s continuing professional
       development work with the South African Holocaust and Genocide Foundation led to the
       creation of new programmes designed to engage schoolchildren and adults with the history
       of the holocaust and its relevance for contemporary debates on confronting the legacy of
       apartheid. Taberner and Cooke’s work with RJC Dance (the leading inclusive black dance
       organisation in the north of England) on a dance performance relating to the history of the
       Holocaust has also helped communities to see parallels between aspects of the holocaust
       and their own experiences.

       Pitman’s research into contemporary Latin American cultural production has also
        developed symbiotically with indigenous artists, generating pathways to impact and
        enriching her research in the process. Over the course of her investigations into indigenous
        digital art, she developed a relationship with a Brazilian NGO, Thydêwá, which works with
        artists using digital tools to facilitate communications between indigenous people and
        mainstream communities as a means of tackling prejudice. These relationships have
        allowed Pitman to stage a photography exhibition, film screenings, language workshops


                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



        and conversation circles in the UK, furthering the work of the NGO by bringing the work of
        these artists to new audiences.

 Shaping policy:
     Waters has worked directly with trade unions in the context of her £212.8k Wellcome Trust
       and AHRC-funded project, ‘Suicide Voices: Narratives of Trauma in the Globalised
       Workplace’. Noting that workplace suicide is already treated as a public health
       phenomenon in France but that this is not the case in the UK, Waters disseminated her
       findings at UK trade union conferences, sparking great interest in achieving policy change
       in this area in the UK. Waters now leads an international panel of experts which sent a
       petition to the UK Health and Safety Executive in December 2019 calling for the recognition
       and monitoring of work-related suicides in the UK.

       The School’s Iqbal Centre for the Study of Contemporary Islam has been working to
        disseminate a new definition of Islamophobia developed by colleagues in the School of
        Sociology and Social Policy. Sheikh and Islam produced resources relating to the definition
        for Imams to use in mosques with their communities, which provided a compelling
        demonstration of its effectiveness in a practical context and was instrumental in securing
        its official adoption in 2018 by the All-Party Parliamentary Group on British Muslims.

 Working with cultural and creative industries:
    Li has worked extensively with UK and Chinese theatre companies and practitioners
       through her AHRC-funded Staging China project, which has promoted a reciprocal
       awareness within the general public in both China and the West of theatre practices
       associated with each tradition and informed the agendas of theatre professionals by
       encouraging new ways of thinking about creative work in performance and design. In
       particular, the creation and touring of a new collaborative stage production to celebrate the
       work of Shakespeare and Tang Xianzu reached combined audiences of over 2000 in the
       UK in 2016 (Leeds Intercultural Festival and the Edinburgh Festival Fringe), and in China
       (in Beijing, Shanghai, Fuzhou).

       A series of events has been generated from O’Leary’s close association with major national
        company Opera North, and especially his work with tenor Dan Norman. These have
        brought together artists, producers and academics to work on matters of shared concern
        (such as the ‘carnivalesque’), resulting in curated film screenings and podcasts. A specific
        offshoot of this collaboration is the ‘Parameters and Practice’ project undertaken by
        O’Leary with dance artist Marie Hallager Andersen, which is intended to lay the groundwork
        for a hybrid mode of artistic/academic work.

       E. Stafford’s extensive research into the ancient and post-classical significance of the
        Graeco-Roman hero Herakles-Hercules involved work with artists, museums and
        composers. She brought the work of New Zealand artist Marian Maguire to public attention
        in Europe via a touring museum exhibition (2015-16). Her research also influenced the
        working practices of composer Tim Benjamin during the composition of a new oratorio
        (2017) and opera (2019). The exhibition and performances of the musical works (live and


                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



        in film versions) have in turn enhanced public understanding of the cross-cultural
        significance of Herakles-Hercules.

 Working with schools, educationalists, and practitioners to change attitudes and inform practices:
    Green has worked with schools and created online resources to bring the music of African-
       Spanish rappers and hip-hop artists into the classroom. Their performances deal with
       issues of race, immigration and representations of whiteness, all of which speak directly to
       the experiences of BAME boys studying Spanish, and as a result provide an appealing
       route into the language which enhances these students’ language acquisition.

       C. Davies and De Cat in the Leeds Child Development Unit work on the role of reading in
        child language acquisition and the language experience of bilingual children respectively,
        as well as the impact of deprivation on language development. Both have consistently
        worked with children and parents, groups promoting language and literature, early years
        educational practitioners, speech and language therapists, healthcare practitioners, policy-
        makers and commissioners in designing and developing their projects, in order to ensure
        that their findings offer the maximum concrete benefit to these users. Projects include a
        range of impact activities with key stakeholders such as the BBC, Leeds City Council,
        Leeds Central Library, The Rainbow Factory (storytelling education centre), and The Royal
        Foundation.


    b. Wider contributions to the economy and society

 The success of our strategy to increase the level of engagement with external partners is further
 demonstrated through a wide range of impact activities with diverse communities and
 publics taking place beyond our impact case studies.

 Our Centres host regular programmes of events with the co-operation of diverse partners and
 audiences. For example, in addition to running regular seminars which are open to the public, the
 Centre for World Literatures organises the annual International Writers Festival in collaboration
 with the Leeds City Library. The Centre for the History of Ibero-America runs events such as film
 screenings and talks from visiting authors and artists, designed to showcase the culture of the
 Hispanic and Lusophone worlds to the general public, in partnership with the Instituto Cervantes
 and the Instituto Camões. Members of the Centre for World Cinemas and Digital Cultures regularly
 accept invitations to introduce films and organise public film screenings and digital art exhibitions
 in Yorkshire and beyond, and have developed close links with LeedsFilm, the Leeds Digital
 Festival and the National Media Museum in Bradford.

 In the context of the Leeds Centre for Dante Studies, Treherne and Honess’s AHRC-funded
 project on Dante and late Medieval Florence has left its imprint on communities in Wakefield and
 Bradford. Honess has used creative workshops, exhibitions, public talks and a photography
 competition to explore Dante’s constructions of Hell, Purgatory and Heaven as different types of
 communities, and in turn prompt participants to interrogate their conception of community
 membership and relationships with their own communities. Community group leaders involved
 with the project have attested that it successfully fostered engagement with art from participants
 who would not normally engage in this type of activity.
                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 The Language@Leeds network also functions as a major centre for generating impact out of
 research conducted at Leeds in the areas of policy development, professional practice, practical
 application and cultural understanding. Examples include examining interactions between deaf
 and hearing people in order to better understand their practices and empower deaf people in their
 daily lives (Adami), and investigating the communication of meaning through the visual dimensions
 of document design in order to inform the practices of design teachers and practitioners, and online
 communicators (Thomas).

 Beyond the work of our Centres, LCS staff regularly contribute to wider public engagement and
 impact activities with the local community, such as the Be Curious research open day (C.
 Davies 2016, Wright 2018, E. Stafford 2019), Leeds annual arts and light festival ‘Light Night’
 (May, and E. Stafford), the Ilkley Literature Festival (Hudspith, Bora and Allen-Paisant in 2019;
 Fell and Cornils in 2018; and Bora in 2015), and the 2016 Being Human Festival (The Iqbal
 Centre). Colleagues also provide regular commentary and analysis in the UK and international
 media, and act in consultancy or expert roles for a range of organisations. For example, Waters
 is academic expert on P1 Investment Management’s ethical oversight committee, which evaluates
 UK companies in accordance with their commitment to ethical principles and behaviours thereby
 helping to shape the investment decisions of leading finance companies in the UK. She also sits
 on an advisory group on mental health at the French Ministry of Health. Other examples include
 De Cat who, in her capacity as Speech and Language lead at the Centre for Applied Education
 Research in Bradford, advises the Department for Education, as does Weightman in her role as
 Chair of the Expert Panel of the implementation of the Mandarin Excellence Programme in UK
 schools.C. Davies has advised the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Childcare and Early
 Education on the impact of the COVID-19 crisis on funding shortfalls.


     c. Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline
 Colleagues have contributed to the sustainability of the discipline by undertaking leadership
 roles in most of the national subject associations during the REF period. For example, Hibbitt
 was Executive Committee member of the British Comparative Literature Association, Dennison is
 President of the UK and Ireland Association of Lusitanists, Pitman was Vice-President of the
 Society for Latin American Studies, Rose was President of the British Association for Japanese
 Studies, E. Stafford was Honorary Secretary of the Classical Association, Waters was Honorary
 Secretary of the Association of University Professors and Heads of French, White was Secretary
 of the Society for Neo-Latin Studies, and Wright is President of European Second Language
 Association. LCS staff have been solidly represented in national and European subject
 associations as council members, and a number of colleagues have sat on the Executive
 Committee of the University Council on Modern Languages (UCML), representing Area Studies
 (Weightman), Italian Studies (Sulis) and French (Holmes), while Cayley is UCML Vice Chair,
 External Engagement and Communications. Fell is Honorary Secretary of the Modern Humanities
 Research Association, on whose committee Finlay and Wheeler also sit. These roles have
 ensured that we have played a significant role in steering research strategy and in determining
 future directions for modern languages in the UK.

 Many LCS staff have been either strategic or regular reviewers for the main UK research
 councils, and also sit on subject-specific grant-awarding bodies. Invitations to review for, or advise,
                                                                                                Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 international funding bodies and research councils are indicative of the international standing of
 our researchers. For example, Atack is reviewer for Agence Nationale de la Recherche, Cornils
 advises the Herman Hesse Society, Fell advises the Polish National Science Centre, Finch has
 reviewed for the Austrian Science Fund, Rose is external advisor for the Scandinavia-Japan
 Sasakawa Foundation Selection Committee, A. Stafford is Panel Chair in Art and Literature for
 Flanders Research Council (FWO) in Brussels, and Wheeler an adviser to the Spanish State
 Research Agency.

 LCS staff are members of editorial boards and/or international advisory boards for over 50
 journals and book series representing both disciplinary and interdisciplinary subjects, with four
 being founder members of new journals (O’Leary, White, Dodd and Weightman). Colleagues have
 acted as PhD externals both nationally and internationally (for example, in Australia, Austria,
 Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Spain, Sweden, and the United States), and have reviewed
 articles and book manuscripts for over 240 publishers and journals. Colleagues have held visiting
 fellowships in the UK, Italy, France, Germany, Spain, Brussels, the Netherlands, Denmark, Peru,
 Canada, the United States and China. Colleagues have undertaken over 90 keynote presentations
 and over 200 invited lectures.

 The School has been nimble in its response to emergent national and international priorities
 and initiatives, achieving success with all the major UKRI schemes related to modern languages
 over the period. Specifically:
     The Language-Based Area Studies programme funded the White Rose East Asia Centre
        (WREAC) led by Rose, a collaborative centre incorporating East Asian Studies at Leeds,
        the Leeds University Business School, and the School of East Asian Studies at Sheffield.
        Originally funded by the ESRC, HEFCE, and AHRC 2006-2011, the Centre was awarded
        continuation funding from the AHRC from 2012 to 2016 (total funded value £515.2k) to
        focus on the development of East Asia-related networks and partnerships in the Arts and
        Humanities as well as the Social Sciences. This in turn nurtured Li’s ‘Staging China’ and
        Weightman’s ‘Writing Chinese’ projects.

       Dodd was awarded £8k for her project ‘Space to Speak: non-Han Fiction and Film in China’
        as part of the flexible funding call from the Open World Research Initiative’s (OWRI)
        Multilingualism: Empowering Individuals, Transforming Societies (MEITS) programme.
        Cooke leads one project in OWRI’s Cross-Language Dynamics: Reshaping Community
        programme entitled ‘Art, Language, Youth and the Legacy of Conflict in Lebanon’, in
        partnership with the British Council’s Global Research Team and the Issam Fares Institute
        for Public Policy and International Affairs. This highly innovative research involves using
        participatory video to explore the legacy of Lebanon's past and its impact on young people
        today.

       Cooke has further built on his successful GCRF funding (noted in Section 1) in his role as
        PI for the GCRF-funded ‘Sourcing Community Solutions to Antibiotic Resistance in Nepal’,
        funded value £186k) project, which uses the same methodological approach as ‘Changing
        the Story’ to develop, pilot test and evaluate a high-quality intervention aimed at preventing
        and controlling antibiotic resistance in Nepal.


                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 The work of our Centres addresses contemporary issues and challenges. For example, the
 CELCE provides a platform from which experts can respond to local and global threats to linguistic,
 cultural, and biological diversity. It has had considerable success including four major external
 grants since its inception in 2017, when it was founded as a major outcome of an AHRC Network
 ‘The Symbiotic relationship between Language and Nature in Southern and Eastern Arabia’
 (funded value £26.2k). Principal Investigator Janet Watson’s ethnolinguistic expertise, which
 propelled her work to revitalise the oral languages of southern Arabia on the brink of extinction, is
 the cornerstone of exciting collaborative projects emanating from the CELCE.

 We have also been quick to respond to, and achieved success with, COVID-19 funding calls
 through: GCRF ‘top-up’ funding (Cooke, £25k), in addition to C. Davies (UKRI COVID-19 open
 call ‘Social distancing and language development’, £10.8k) and Sharov ‘Big Data analysis of
 COVID-19 public communication’ (University of Leeds Interdisciplinary Research Development
 Programme, £5k). Language@Leeds is also providing specialist support and facilities to enable
 online data collection in response to the pandemic.

     d. Indicators of wider influence
 Numerous researchers within the School have been decorated with awards and honours,
 reflecting the strength and breadth of our research and impact at all career levels. Prizes for
 specific outputs have been awarded as follows:

       At PGR level: Lauren Avery was the first recipient of the Anglo-Thai Society Education
        Award in 2018 for her MAR thesis; Rachel Green won the Internationaler Wendelin
        Schmidt-Dengler Preis in 2017 for her PhD thesis on Heimat in New Austrian Film; and
        PGR James Garza won the open category of the 2019 Stephen Spender Prize for poetry
        in translation.

       At ECR level: Bora was awarded the Royal Asiatic Society's Staunton Prize for
        outstanding work by an early career scholar in 2016); Bastianes won the Computense
        University PhD Extraordinary Prize in 2017; and Jarman won Best Essay in Venezuelan
        Studies [Humanities] by the Latin American Studies Association in 2017. Koutsourakis’
        article ‘Visualizing the Anthropocene Dialectically: Jessica Woodworth and Peter Brosens’
        Eco-Crisis Trilogy’ was shortlisted for the 2018 Film-Philosophy Article Award.

       At senior level: De Cat received the Albert Valdman award for Outstanding Publication in
        Studies in Second Language Acquisition in 2018; Holmes won the 2019 Modern Language
        Association of America Aldo and Jeanne Scaglione Prize for French and Francophone
        Studies for her monograph Middlebrow Matters: Women's Reading and the Literary Canon
        in France since the Belle Epoque; and Waters was awarded the Emerald Highly
        Commended Award in 2017 for her co-authored article 'When Work Kills', published in the
        Journal of Public Mental Health.

 Awards bestowed by prestigious bodies for contributions to research and/or the promotion and
 teaching of subjects include: Wheeler, who became the first non-Hispanic academic to be inducted
 into the Spanish Academy of Stage Arts in 2016; Holmes, who was awarded Outstanding Faculty
 Mentor award, Women in French USA, November 2018, and Seeger, who was awarded the Thai

                                                                                              Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Royal Decoration of the Fifth Class of the Most Admirable Order of the Direkgunabhorn, in
 recognition of his work and efforts in promoting better understanding and appreciation of Thailand
 and its culture to the people of the UK. In the sphere of awards for impact/public engagement, the
 Arte Eletrônica Indígena project, which involved Pitman as international curator, was awarded an
 Honorary Mention in the European Commission’s 2019 S+T+ART prize, and Fell was awarded
 the University of Leeds Vice Chancellor’s Prize for Impact in the Arts and Humanities in 2015 for
 her Legacies of War project. Cooke’s AHRC-funded film ‘The Born-Free Generation’ has been
 nominated for 9 film festival awards, and C. Davies, as a member of the Many Babies open science
 collaboration (involving labs across six continents and 47 nations), was awarded the 2019 Society
 for Improvement of Psychological Science Mission Award for improving psychological science in
 the face of challenge.




                                                                                           Page 24
