Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: Loughborough University

 Unit of Assessment: B9 Physics

 1. Unit Context and Structure, Research and Impact Strategy

 Physics has been a core discipline at Loughborough since 1966 and is best known for leading
 contributions to condensed matter and materials physics. In this assessment period, we have
 particularly grown our experimental capability, through staff recruitment and investment in
 experimental facilities as part of a £59M University investment in new state-of-the-art STEM
 laboratories and offices. Further enabled by a 64% increase in grant income compared to
 REF2014, our research has expanded to address the UK Grand Challenges declared in the
 Government Industrial Strategy. Our most significant contributions have been in “AI & Data
 Economy” and “Clean Growth” with particular highlights in spintronics, energy harvesting, novel
 computing and artificial intelligence, 2D and van der Waals materials, and medical technologies.
 At the same time, the Unit has doubled its proportion of female academics to 20%, including the
 Dean of the School of Science who is Professor of Theoretical Physics.

 1.1 Research Structure

 This Unit comprises all 18 academic staff from Physics and two physicists based in Mathematics,
 both Departments within the School of Science (SSci), which also includes Chemistry, Computer
 Science, and Mathematics Education. SSci is one of 9 autonomous Schools at Loughborough with
 its own Research, Enterprise and Senior Management Committees. Departments are represented
 on these committees through, respectively, their Research Coordinators, Impact Coordinators and
 Heads of Department (HoD). These key staff lead the effort within Departments and collaborate
 with their School-level leads (Associate Deans for Research and Enterprise, and Dean of
 Science). Both the Dean of Science and the Associate Dean (Research), who is also a member
 of the University Research Committee, are members of this Unit.

 1.1.1 Research themes
 Our four core research themes are:
 • Quantum and nano-engineering: quantum metamaterials and quantum systems
     engineering,
 • Novel functional materials: spintronics, caloritronics, as well as 2D and topological materials,
 • Physics of complex systems: stochastic memristive artificial neurons and neuromorphic
     computing,
 • High-frequency solid state physics: sub-THz/THz semiconducting and superconducting
     superlattices.

 To promote interdisciplinary research in the School, six School Research Centres were
 established. The Physics Department is significantly engaged in three:
 • Interdisciplinary Centre for Mathematical Modelling (ICMM)
 • Centre for the Science of Materials (CSM)
 • Interdisciplinary Science Centre from Laboratory to Fabrication (Lab2Fab)

 ICMM fosters collaboration between Physics and Mathematics in quantum technology and soft-
 matter, while CSM and Lab2Fab promote collaboration with Chemistry in the field of 2D and smart
 materials, and the physics of live neurons, with the intention of capitalising on University
 investment in new shared laboratories and inspiring larger grant opportunities.

 The institutional ‘CALIBRE’ strategic research framework drives interdisciplinary activity across all
 Schools. We engage with CALIBRE’s programmes, particularly the Global Challenges, Beacons,
 and Adventure programmes. For example, under the Health and Wellbeing Global Challenge we
 worked on superconducting medical brain sensors which resulted in one of our submitted Impact
 Case Studies. The CALIBRE framework also introduced the Institute of Advanced Studies (IAS)

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 to promote both interdisciplinarity and international collaboration. The Unit (Zagoskin) co-led the
 selected 20/21 theme “Time” (with colleagues from the Schools of Social Sciences and
 Humanities, and Business and Economics) which explored ‘time’ as a concept that underpins
 science and technology but also the development of societies and cultures.

 1.2 Review of Objectives and Research Plans described in REF 2014

 Achievement against the four strategic objectives from REF2014 is outlined below.

 1.2.1 Concentration on research themes:
 We prioritised research in our areas of strength, including novel functional and quantum materials
 and electronic components for medical, IT and AI technologies. For example, a collaboration with
 Chemistry and Computer Science investigated materials for memristive and spintronic devices
 and the architecture of memristor-based processors for Artificial Intelligence, respectively. We led
 pioneering research in quantum metamaterials after discovering a new class of distributed
 coherent structures, established the new research fields “spin-caloritronics” and “quantum system
 engineering”, and created the foundation for the application of stochastic memristive neurons to
 AI technologies.

 1.2.2 Strengthening the experimental activities:
 We radically upgraded and expanded Physics’ experimental facilities, accompanied by the
 addition of an enhanced experimental capability to complement what was previously a
 predominantly theoretical department. Within a total University investment of £59M and with the
 Department’s accumulated grant income, our experimental facilities have been greatly advanced
 (§3.3) to provide “full-cycle” capability for memristive, magnetic, and spintronic devices, where
 growth, fabrication, characterisation, measurement and theory are all located at Loughborough.
 Furthermore, SSci has co-located the Physics and Chemistry departments, enabling better
 sharing of equipment (e.g. X-ray diffractometers, Raman spectroscopy) and technical support.

 1.2.3 Creating impact and reach far beyond the institutional boundaries:
 We: (i) identified key stakeholders potentially interested in our research; (ii) informed them about
 our research achievements through publication in high-level outlets, patents and media releases,
 and dissemination via School/Department-based workshops, on-site visits and web-conferences;
 (iii) involved industry partners through KTP and joint PhD studentships; and (iv) informed the
 general public about Physics research and its impact. During this REF period new research
 networks have been established with world leading Universities and industry partners. The
 realisation of our strategy engaged new industrial partners, including global companies such as
 Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE), ARM, and Teledyne e2v, in our research in high-frequency
 electronics and neuromorphic computing. This also yielded several important grants (§3.1).

 1.2.4 Encouraging a dynamic, effective and inclusive research environment:
 We have significantly increased the diversity of our staff and broadened the Unit’s demographic
 profile. Revitalised plans made Physics at Loughborough a more attractive prospect to talented
 new staff and, by actively engaging with the University’s “Excellence100” campaign, we recruited
 a female professor in theoretical physics (currently Dean of School) and five lecturers (one
 female), from diverse ethnic backgrounds. Our engagement with and promotion of Equality,
 Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) principles were recognised by a bronze Athena Swan Award (2019)
 to SSci and the IoP Juno Practitioner award (2020) to Physics.

 1.3 Enabling and Facilitating the Achievement of Impact

 In the REF2014 exercise, we identified three enablers of more efficient translation of research to
 impact. The first was to introduce a reward mechanism for impact-active staff. During the
 assessment period, our impact leaders received KTP funding for Research Associates as well as
 University-funded PhD studentships, and we actively supported staff to apply for University and


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 School funding to support their impact. The second enabler was a new SSci seedcorn funding
 scheme. The third action was establishing an advisory board for our spin-out company “Sonobex”.

 These interventions were facilitated by a School five-point impact strategy:

 IS1   Investing in Staff Training
 IS2   Establishing & Nurturing Partnerships
 IS3   Maximising Organisational Support
 IS4   Resourcing Impact Generation
 IS5   Recognition & Reward of Impact.

 A comprehensive programme of Staff Training Workshops is held annually for SSci which staff
 are encouraged to attend (IS1). The Research and Enterprise Office assisted us with specialist
 support in partnership development (contract research, consultancy, CPD, recruitment), contracts,
 intellectual property, commercialisation and marketing (IS2). We also appointed a Physics Impact
 Champion (senior female academic) to coordinate activities and develop action plans for each
 Impact Case Study (ICS) based on IS3-IS5.

 IS2, IS3 and IS4 underpinned development of the ICS in applications to brain imaging and MRI of
 high-temperature SQuID magnetometer technology (Chesca). This development secured several
 KTP awards (2-year Research Associate) working on superconducting sensors complemented by
 university-funded studentships working on sensors. The underpinning research of this impact
 case, which appeared in Nature (2015), demonstrated a highly sensitive high-Tc superconducting
 SQuID array for weak field magnetometers. To promote impact from this research, we established
 collaboration with Star Cryoelectronics (USA) and CTF MEG (Canada).

 IS2, IS3 and IS5 supported the continuation ICS with spin-out company Sonobex, recipient of a
 Loughborough Enterprise Award 2014. The co-founders, Chief Technology Officer, Elford, and
 Engineering Director, Chalmers, graduated from the Physics Department having worked under
 the supervision of Kusmartsev (co-founder, Company Director 2013-2014, Chair of Scientific
 Advisory Board 2012-2017) and Swallowe (co-founder, Scientific Advisory Board 2012-2017).
 Continued collaboration helped Sonobex to advance their award-wining noise control technologies
 and develop the first commercially available acoustic metamaterial-based technology. The
 Department supported Sonobex to develop their business and later join the Merford group of
 companies.

 1.4 Research and Impact Objectives and Plans for the Next Five Years

 Our objectives for the next REF period will be delivered, through the first half of the cycle, by our
 portfolio of active grants in the field of neuromorphic devices, energy harvesting, spintronics, and
 quantum materials including the following EU and EPSRC grants (total value of over £2.3M)
 awarded very recently to senior staff, Betouras, Zagoskin and Saveliev, and ECRs, Borisov and
 Greenaway:
 • Space resolved detection of single microwave photons with superconducting quantum
     coherent arrays (part of the Supergalax consortium led by SIN-CNR, Italy), PI Zagoskin, EU,
     2020-22.
 • Designing and exploring new quantum materials based on Fermi surface topological
     transitions, PI Betouras, EPSRC, 2020-24.
 • Neuromorphic memristive circuits to simulate inhibitory and excitatory dynamics of neuron
     networks: from physiological similarities to deep learning, PI Saveliev, EPSRC, 2020-23.
 • Oxide Recurrent Neural Networks, PI Borisov, 2020-23.
 • Quantum dynamics of electrons in emerging van der Waals devices, PI Greenaway, EPSRC,
     2021-23.




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The grants demonstrate we have both leadership and, in our talented ECRs, vitality in the 5-year
 plan. Our ambition is to establish ourselves as a world-leading centre in physics of AI and
 smart devices for future technologies, becoming the distinctive brand for the Physics at
 Loughborough. To do so, we set the following specific objectives:

 O1 – Further development of experimental facilities for smart devices and functional material
 nanofabrication and sensitive transport/magnetic measurements, significantly enhancing our
 experimental research in areas of current strength, including novel quantum and neuromorphic
 IT/AI devices, and magnetic, topological, and van der Waals materials. This will involve
 consolidation of resources and joint funding applications planned with the Engineering Schools for
 development of our experimental base related to synthesis, growth, fabrication and
 characterisation of materials and devices.

 O2 – Convert international recognition of individual staff members in quantum, nano-, and
 complexity physics into international reputation of the Unit. To provide broader opportunities
 for internal and external collaborations, we will further invest in developing novel interdisciplinary
 research, such as devices for artificial intelligence, physics of the brain and medical physics,
 building strategic collaborations with regional partners, nationwide and internationally, see §4.1.

 O3 - Transform our interaction with industry to boost the impact of our research by
 prioritising conversion of our scientific findings into IP attractive for business and industry,
 maintaining and expanding our strategic partnerships with HPE, Teledyne-e2v, Sonobex, DSTL,
 ARM holdings, Star Cryoelectronics, CTF MEG and Serac Imaging Systems Ltd, which are
 flagships of the IT/AI, environment protection, defence and medical devices industries. We will
 proactively approach business for part-funded PhD studentships, as well as KTP, Innovate UK
 and other industry-driven research and enterprise funding.

 O4 - Increase our diversity by encouraging applications from underrepresented groups (e.g.
 female and BAME applicants), inviting more researchers from underrepresented groups to the
 Physics seminars and conferences, improving PGR diversity by attracting the best national and
 international students through offering contemporary projects related to UK Global Challenge
 topics, and continuing to actively participate in the Juno project.

 O5 – Expand the research capacity of the Unit by (i) attracting highly competent national and
 international researchers in the field of smart devices and materials able to secure early career
 funding, such as UKRI Fellowships and others (see 2.1); (ii) supporting staff in their applications
 for established career fellowships and pursuit of platform-type awards; and (iii) exploiting our
 academic and industrial partnerships and working with international PhD funding bodies to further
 increase the population of PGR students.

 1.5 Open Research Environment

 Loughborough is a pioneer of the ‘Open Agenda’, actively supporting Repositories for text-based
 outputs (since 2005) and data (since 2015), working beyond funder (including REF2021) open
 access requirements. Our landmark Open Research Position Statement committed to depositing
 the full-text of 100% of our primary research outputs in our now unified (2019) Research
 Repository (including on closed access where unavoidable) from 2020 and Physics has met this
 target.

 We strongly encourage staff to upload their outputs to arXiv to enhance their visibility. The
 University’s research information system – LUPIN – automatically monitors published outputs
 databases such as arXiv, Scopus, Web of Science. The Physics Research Coordinator and HoD
 promote proactive usage of LUPIN by providing inductions for new staff and monitoring
 compliance with University’s Open Access policy. Between 2014 and 2020, the Department of
 Physics’ repository content accumulated more than 473,000 views and 373,000 downloads.



                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The Department’s active support of the Open Research agenda is further evident in provision of
 computer code and algorithms. For example, original computer code supporting our research on
 quantum engineering, spintronics, semiconductor and superconductor devices was made publicly
 available via      GitHub    [https://github.com/shalaka-kulkarni/Lboro/tree/master/Ic-modelling,
 https://github.com/priimak/super-lattice-boltzmann-2d, https://github.com/debipattnaik] and we
 contributed to the development of the open software QuTiP (Quantum Toolbox in Python) by
 providing new functions. QuTiP has approximately 50,000 unique annual downloads.

 1.6 A Culture of Research Integrity

 Loughborough University Ethics Committee is a joint sub-committee of Senate and Council, and
 considers all ethical matters arising in the conduct of the University’s business. Ethics Committee
 has specific processes in place for areas such as experiments with human participants, work
 falling under the Human Tissues Act, and research with military applications. To support the
 University Ethical Policy, all Unit research proposals undergo ethical approval. We promote a
 culture of research integrity by creating equal conditions and opportunity for development and
 progression for academic, research, and technical staff and PhD students and by maintaining
 rigour, trust and confidence in the research methods and obtained results. All new Unit staff
 undergo compulsory training on avoiding academic misconduct. Training relates to work in physics
 research and teaching laboratories and the corresponding health, safety and behaviour issues. In
 addition, the Unit’s internal review of papers pre-submission incorporates a check on potential
 research misconduct.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing and Recruitment Policy

 All academic staff contribute to teaching, research and enterprise activities. We expect and
 incentivise collegiality from the earliest career stages and, as careers develop, we expect broader
 leadership contributions in the Departments and School and at institutional level. Since 2014, three
 Unit staff served on the University Council and three on the Senate. Academic staff have open-
 ended contracts, while research staff are on fixed-term contracts related to projects in line with
 sector norms.

 We monitor staff satisfaction via regular surveys. The last full University survey was in 2017 and
 SSci ran surveys in 2018 and 2020. In Physics, the Juno Committee runs surveys every three
 years (the last in 2018). These identified areas for improvement, such as workload and
 transparency, allowing the Juno, School Equality and Diversity and Athena SWAN Committees to
 develop an action plan for approval by the Senior Management Team.

 The Department regularly assesses its succession needs and uses new appointments
 strategically to ensure critical mass and leadership in the research themes. All appointments,
 including replacements, need to be justified by strategic planning. Since REF2014, the University
 approach to recruiting excellent staff at all career stages, from postdoctoral and early career
 researchers (ECRs) through mid-career and senior roles, has radically changed, driven by the
 University Strategy. The University’s ‘Excellence100’ campaign was based on pilot campaigns to
 recruit outstanding ECRs which were managed centrally and focussed unequivocally on
 excellence. In physics, three outstanding staff were recruited in these campaigns: Banerjee and
 Rousochatzakis (Lecturers) and Greenaway (Vice-Chancellor’s Research Fellow). Building on
 this, recruitment to established posts is now conducted through biannual recruitment rounds,
 managed centrally but with significant School input, rather than piecemeal replacement hires. With
 excellence as the primary criterion, these rounds deliver better international recruitment and
 improved diversity.

 In the Departments, all recruitment activity is checked and approved by the Department Equality
 and Diversity Coordinator as well as by the School’s EDI Director. The selection committee and


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Head of Physics will proactively approach potential candidates from underrepresented groups. As
 a result, we have doubled the proportion of female academic staff to 20%, at levels from Lecturer
 to Professor, and recruited additional BAME colleagues.

 Since 2014, our main recruitment requirement has been to build experimental capacity to
 complement our theoretical capability. Of seven new academic appointments, from lecturer to
 professorial levels, four were ECR experimental staff with backgrounds in novel quantum and IT/AI
 devices, magnetic, topological, and van der Waals materials. The high calibre of these staff is
 evidenced by three having secured EPSRC New Investigators Awards (NIA) and two having
 already been promoted to Senior Lecturer. We targeted ECRs in order to develop new capabilities
 in spintronics, smart devices and medical imaging, and senior staff members to strengthen the
 leadership within the Department.

 The Departments welcome part-time working and look to offer flexibility according to need such
 as to reduce hours for flexible/phased retirement or to increase hours as circumstances change
 e.g., Everitt transferred to a permanent full-time position from a part-time contract and is now
 leading our Quantum Systems Engineering work. Fixed-term contracts have been used effectively
 to attract promising new staff who can then be appointed to permanent posts e.g., Morrison was
 originally employed on a fixed-term contract and she has since secured EPSRC NIA and Early
 Career Fellowship awards, and is a member of the Physics REF team and senior management
 team.

 2.2 Staff Development

 All Unit staff are supported through Loughborough’s Organisational Development, which provides
 a variety of training targeted at staff at all career levels. Courses range from earliest stages
 (Welcome to Loughborough) through essential training (Information security training, Unconscious
 Bias) to training for staff becoming senior managers (Coaching conversations for managers,
 Recruitment and selection).

 All colleagues are expected to obtain Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy (HEA). For
 new lecturers, this is integral to their dedicated development programme. More experienced
 colleagues are supported through our `Recognition of Experienced Practitioners' scheme which
 requires preparation of a dossier of evidence to support their application.

 The School allocates funding for staff to attend major scientific conferences (£2000 within every
 two-year period) including staff currently without external research funding to support
 dissemination of their research.

 2.2.1 Supporting postdoctoral researchers
 Following the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, the
 University provides structured support to research staff for career progression and development,
 including preparation of applications for funding. The School arranges regular career development
 events for research staff such as the “Research Lunch”, where successful academics and Careers
 Network staff provide individual guidance on future career strategies and share good practice.

 The Unit also supports applications for external (e.g. Royal Society, Newton international &
 EPSRC) postdoctoral fellowships, including arranging mock interviews for shortlisted candidates
 to maximise their chances of success. Internally, the Doctoral Prize Fellowship scheme funds to
 two-years research immediately post-PhD with a package of support including a mentor, dedicated
 training, and specialist Fellowship advice.

 The success of the support provided is evidenced by all our post-doctoral research staff
 successfully continuing their careers either in research or industry (e.g. academic posts at
 Nottingham, Sheffield, and Manchester Universities, Swinburne University (Australia), Qatar
 Environment and Energy Research Institute, Sonobex, ISIS beamline).


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.2.2 New Lecturers’ Programme (NLP)
 All new lecturers are guided by an experienced and trained academic colleague from their
 Department who acts as Adviser. NLP (formerly academic probation) was substantially revised in
 2017 and includes the full spectrum of research and impact activity (publication, funding
 applications, collaboration, public engagement, non-academic partnerships). New lecturers have
 a reduced workload in teaching (33, 50 and 67% of departmental norms in consecutive years),
 and administration which enables the establishment of a full academic profile in research, teaching
 and impact at a manageable pace. In addition to an extensive training programme leading to
 FHEA, the New Lecturer formally meets four times annually with their Adviser. Minutes of these
 meetings, as well as overall progress, are monitored in the School and by the University. SSci
 commits to providing a Ph.D. studentship, co-supervised by an experienced colleague.
 Supervision is a requirement to pass the programme, alongside a minimum expectation on
 research output production, and the submission of at least one substantial grant application. Eight
 Unit staff benefitted from NLP, which helped them to secure funding (see §3.1).

 2.2.3 Support and integration of early career researchers into the Unit’s research culture
 Each newly appointed academic receives a modest start-up package, including a PhD
 studentship, at least £2k/annum funding and priority in funding allocated by the School’s strategic
 calls. Newly appointed experimentalists can negotiate a significantly larger budget with the Dean.
 For example, Dejene received an additional £8k for purchasing a 2D transfer microscope stage
 and probe station and Bugby received £20k for nuclear imaging. Such measures have helped new
 academics establish their own research labs in spin caloritronics, superconducting spintronics and
 memristive technologies.

 2.2.4 Developing mid-career staff and academic leaders
 Two senior Unit staff achieved qualifications from the Institute of Leadership and Management
 (ILM), going on to become Head of Physics and Associate Dean (Research). One academic
 completed the University’s Future Leaders Programme and female academics receive funding
 from the School to participate in the Aurora Leadership programme.

 2.2.5 Respecting technical staff contributions
 To promote contributions from technical staff, the University championed the establishment of the
 “Technicians Forum”, which is now nationally recognised. Physics has dedicated technical staff to
 support research and teaching and they are actively involved in research projects. For example,
 Sutton co-authored three research papers, which helped him to secure a lecturer position at the
 University of Lincoln. Technical staff are represented on the School EDI and Juno Committees,
 enabling direct influence on the strategy and policies of the School and the Department.

 2.2.6 Appraisal, promotion and reward
 All members of post-probationary staff in the Unit have an annual PDR. This University scheme
 was totally updated in 2017, with a much stronger focus on development centred on a one-to-one
 discussion between the reviewee and a trained reviewer. The discussion focuses on strengths
 and areas for development across the full range of activities including CALIBRE-aligned goals for
 research and impact activity. New PDR is a transparent way to recognise performance exceeding
 expectations with additional financial reward and allows much fairer identification of candidates
 for promotion. The new scheme has particularly benefitted Unit research staff for whom a rigorous
 developmental discussion was previously sporadic and consideration for reward a rarity.

 The University has also revised the criteria for academic promotion (Senior Lecturer, Reader,
 Professor), to ensure that the research components align with the University Strategy and
 CALIBRE. Evidence for cases can be based on research, teaching, enterprise (impact) or any
 combination to encourage balanced portfolios of work. We judge ‘Excellence and International
 Reputation’ and ‘Academic Leadership and Influence’ rather than traditional metrics based on
 quantity and not quality. This focus allows panels to take into account statements from promotion
 applicants describing how personal circumstances, such as caring responsibilities, may have



                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 affected their profile. The School’s “Promotion Demystification” workshop has supported four
 promotions to Senior Lecturer, and one case of successive promotion to Reader then Professor.

 2.2.7 Research and impact leave
 Unit staff can apply for either University or School fellowship schemes, which allow focus on
 exceptional activities for up to 12 months. The School’s Maria Agnesi Fellowship Scheme enabled
 Zagoskin to accept a prestigious Residential Fellowship at Notre-Dame Institute of Advanced
 Study (2018), which established a new international collaborative project in quantum physics.

 2.3 Postgraduate Research (PGR) students

 We treat PhD students as partners in our research and their research contributes to our collective
 output in an essential way. The number of PhDs awarded has increased by more than 40% in this
 REF period.

 2.3.1 How we fund our research students
 The Unit maintains its PGR population (c.20 students) via University scholarships, industry
 funding, international scholarships, UKRI funding including Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs)
 and DSTL, and high-quality self-funded students. The funding mix is approximately half internal
 funding, and a quarter each from UKRI and industry / self-funders. University scholarships are
 also available to cover international tuition fees. Unit staff are encouraged to bring third-party
 partial funding for match with internal funding or in a CDT. During the REF period, the Unit
 participated in two EPSRC-funded CDTs, in Embedded Intelligence and Additive Manufacturing.
 We were also awarded a University-funded mini-CDT in Quantum Systems Engineering under
 CALIBRE’s Adventure Programme.

 2.3.2 Recruiting doctoral research students
 We require all potential supervisors to have undertaken training on Bullying and Harassment,
 Recruitment and Selection, Respecting Diversity, and Mental Health Awareness. Supervisors are
 then required to develop PhD recruitment plans that include approaching underrepresented
 groups (special mailing lists, diversity-related web-resources, conferences). All funded and non-
 funded projects are posted on the School website and the highly visible FindAPhD website. We
 arrange remote or in-person interviews of shortlisted candidates to ensure high quality students
 are recruited. Decisions on offers are taken by two members of staff.

 2.3.3 Monitoring and support mechanisms
 The Doctoral College runs an induction event for new starters, complemented by a School
 induction. All students have at least two supervisors with a recommended split of around 70:30 to
 ensure productive involvement of the second supervisor. All full-time students must have at least
 monthly recorded meetings via the University’s dedicated online Co-Tutor tool. During the first
 year of PhD studies, there is an initial 6-month review followed by annual reviews based on a
 report and viva with an independent examiner, from which student progression is decided.

 The School’s Director of Doctoral Programmes (DDP) is supported by Deputy Directors in the
 Departments, who also monitor progression and arrange subject specific training and events such
 as regular student research presentations. Further specialist support is available from the
 Mathematics Learning Support Centre, the English Language Support Unit, the Student Advice
 Centre, the Careers Network, and the Student Wellbeing and Inclusivity Service. In the Unit, each
 PhD student is provided with travel and consumables funds (£1500 / £3000 for theoretical /
 experimental students, respectively).

 SSci Departments have elected PGR student representatives, who are important points of contact
 when issues need to be resolved. PGR representatives participate in the School’s Staff-Student
 Liaison Committee.




                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.3.4 Skills development
 The Doctoral College offers over 200 events annually, from induction and international orientations
 for new students to transferable skills and employability training. The Doctoral College also runs
 the Annual Conference, Summer Showcase, Three Minute Thesis competition and the ‘Diversity
 in Research’ workshops. SSci holds the annual “Science Matters” conference, organised by PhD
 students, as a professional development opportunity with popular lectures from prominent external
 speakers, student talks and poster presentations, and awards for outstanding doctoral student
 contributions.

 Subject-specific training and seminars for Physics PGRs includes: prestige events (Sir Nevill Mott
 lecture (Physics), Sir David Wallace lecture (Mathematics)), weekly Landau seminars (mandatory
 for Physics PGRs), Mathematical Reviews, journal clubs and research talks, and monthly Health
 and Safety seminars. All students have the opportunity to gain experience in teaching by assisting
 in labs and tutorials (with approval of their supervisors) after completing the University’s Teaching
 Skills course designed for PhD students.

 2.4 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 There is a strong leadership for EDI within SSci. The Associate Dean (Research) and the Dean,
 both Unit staff, have an extensive engagement with Project Juno working closely with the IoP EDI
 team. Physics actively participates in a range of School-level EDI activities, including Women in
 Science lecture series, Pride in STEM research showcase (talks by LGBT+ scientists), Black
 Excellence in STEM events, panel discussions about experiences of Black students and staff in
 STEM, and the Diversity Allies Campaign (encouraging staff and students to be better allies to
 underrepresented groups). There is an additional annual budget of £4,500 for School EDI
 activities. The gender balance of research seminars, invited lectures, and other research events
 is closely monitored across the School to ensure at least 25% female participation.

 The Juno and the School EDI committees monitor EDI data and the impact of EDI activities.
 Monitoring by gender is undertaken annually for application rates, shortlisting, offers and hires to
 staff positions, PhD numbers and completion times, UG intake, seminar speakers, school roles,
 promotions, internal School funding and studentships.

 The Physics Juno Champion (also a member of the University BAME network) sits on both the
 university level Athena SWAN SAT and the School EDI committee and develops EDI policy for
 the Department.

 2.4.1 Arrangements for supporting flexible and/or remote working
 Formal flexible working requests may be submitted for approval by HR. Academic staff within SSci
 may request up to one hour each day guaranteed to be free from teaching. This allows staff
 additional flexibility to accommodate e.g., school runs. Academic staff also have the ability to work
 flexibly or remotely on an informal basis so long as their responsibilities are fulfilled. For other
 circumstances, such as caring for a family member in poor health, staff can request
 compassionate leave for immediate issues or longer term flexible working for ongoing
 responsibilities.

 Remote working is facilitated through the remote working portal, which permits staff to access all
 online resources remotely while protecting sensitive information from unauthorised access, as
 well as through the choice that academic staff have between a desktop computer or a laptop.
 These policies and supporting infrastructure have eased the transition to effective home working
 during the COVID-19 pandemic from March 2020.

 2.4.2 Support for submission of funding applications
 The Juno and EDI committees collect information about grant success rates and studentship
 applications by gender and seek support from the research committees (both at the School and
 the University levels) to promote a culture of equality and diversity in the research resource


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 distribution. The Physics Research Coordinator actively encourages Unit staff from
 underrepresented groups to access expert support available. These measures resulted in
 significant current (2020) EPSRC funds with 27% contribution from female staff and 65% from
 ethnic minority staff.

 2.4.3 Support for staff and research students returning from periods of leave
 In addition to University-level support, the Departments support staff returning from parental,
 maternity, adoption, caring responsibility, sick or other long-term leave by giving them phased
 workload reintroduction and release from substantial administrative activity. This has helped 5 Unit
 staff re-establish their research (Borisov and Greenaway subsequently obtained EPSRC NIAs,
 Morrison obtained a New Horizons grant).

 2.4.4 Supporting the wellbeing of staff and research students
 The University has a counselling service and also subscribes to an external service (for staff and
 PGRs) that provides 24-hour telephone counselling and sessions for more complex issues. SSci
 has a well-being advisor who supports staff and students with any well-being issues. Physics also
 has two mental health first aiders (trained academics with workload allocation) who provide
 support for staff.

 2.5 Equality and Diversity in the Construction of our REF Submission

 This REF submission was constructed by a mixed-gender team (20% female in line with the Unit
 ratio) and following the University’s Code of Practice. All colleagues were asked to nominate and
 self-assess potential outputs for inclusion. In line with our Responsible Metrics Policy, these were
 peer assessed for originality, significance and rigour by a team of reviewers representing all
 research themes and covering different career stages, age, gender, race, and ethnicity. The
 submission team completed EDI and unconscious bias training and two members were also
 members of the University BAME network. Throughout our REF preparations, equality impact
 assessments (EIAs) were carried out to assess both institutional processes and our draft return,
 included outputs selected, against protected characteristics, and to monitor whether further action
 was required. EIAs confirmed no issues required attention.

 3. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities

 3.1 Research Income

 Our strategic aim since 2014 was to significantly increase the active grant portfolio. This was
 achieved by: analysing our past successes and failures, establishing research themes (objective
 1.2.1), and strengthening our experimental activities (objective 1.2.2) through recruitment (Dejene,
 Borisov, Banerjee, Bugby) and by securing high value equipment. In addition, the School
 introduced grant-writing training and one-to-one sessions with Research Development Managers
 and an external adviser (GrantCraft), while Physics introduced internal peer-reviews for all
 applications and provided a repository of successful grants.

 Our total grant income (excluding in-kind) reached £3.5M, an increase of 64% compared to
 REF2014. At the point of submission, our active research and enterprise grants totalled £3.7M.
 This includes major and prestigious awards: an EPSRC Early Career Fellowship (Morrison,
 £843k), and three New Investigator Awards (Banerjee, £186k; Borisov, £277k; Greenaway, £274k)
 reflecting our ECR support (see §2.2.2).

 Our strategy for collaboration also resulted in research grants supporting three major research
 consortia:
 • Brain Inspired Computing - Salk Institute for Biological studies (USA), Texas A&M University
    (USA), University of Massachusetts Amherst (USA), ARM Ltd. (UK). £966k to Loughborough.
 • SUPERGALAX - Consiglio Nazionale Delle Ricerche (Italy), Istituto Nazionale Di Ricerca
    Metrologica (Italy), Istituto Nazionale Di Fisica Nucleare (Italy), Ruhr-Universitaet Bochum


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     (Germany), Karlsruher Institut für Technologie (Germany), Leibniz-Institut für Photonische
     Technologien E.V. (Germany). €2.5M total with €387k to Loughborough.
 •   New quantum materials - Boston University (USA), Max Plank Institutes (Germany),
     Universities of Nottingham and St. Andrews. £575k to Loughborough.

 3.2 Organisational Infrastructure Supporting Research and Impact

 3.2.1 Research development
 We benefit from the continuous and proactive support provided by the Research Development
 Managers (RDMs). The RDMs arrange one-to-one sessions with staff developing applications,
 and general drop-in sessions for staff developing ideas. For large and strategically important
 applications, including prestigious fellowships, RDMs arrange mock panels (e.g. for Morrison’s
 and Rousochatzakis’ EPSRC Fellowship applications), contact industry partners, and share best
 practice.

 3.2.2 Partnership development and commercialisation
 Unit staff work closely with our Partnership Development Manager (PDM), who supports the
 development of links and networks with industry and provides specialist IP support. They also
 arrange drop-in sessions for staff seeking to generate impact from their work. Recent successful
 examples include development of strategic relationships with ARM, Hewlett Packard Enterprise,
 Merford, Dstl, Star Cryoelectronics and CTF MEG.

 3.2.3 Research quality and visibility
 The University Research Policy Team arranged mandatory workshops for Unit staff to promote
 open access repositories, Google Scholar, Researcher ID, ORCID, Scopus and other research
 networks/databases in order to increase awareness of ways to enhance research visibility. Unit
 staff were also trained to use the Vertigo Ventures Impact Tracker to collect evidence for impact
 case studies and demonstrate different pathways to impact, even from very fundamental research.
 Experienced Unit staff complement this support by offering extensive internal reviewing of
 preprints, which helped to secure publication of 51% of our current REF outputs in the top 1% of
 journals by SJR.

 3.3 Operational and Scholarly Infrastructure and Facilities Supporting Research and Impact

 University investment dramatically accelerated progress against objective 1.2.2 (to improve
 experimental facilities for all our research themes) and created the basis for much of the Unit’s
 plans post 2021 (specifically objectives O1, O2 and O5 of section 1.4). Unit staff now have new
 offices and meeting spaces, more space for PhD students and academic visitors, a new clean
 room (ISO class 6/FED), and co-location of lab facilities with Chemistry. The immediate result of
 this investment was development of new thin film and photolithography facilities and shared X-ray
 characterisation and sample preparation facilities (e.g. 3D printing, furnaces), optimising technical
 support.

 Additionally, School investment and EPSRC equipment funding over the last 5 years has yielded
 an upgrade of specialised electronics for high-precision low-noise measurements; development
 of ferromagnetic resonance (FMR) and a Magneto Optic Kerr Effect magnetometer (MOKE), an
 atomic force microscope (AFM), a 9 Tesla cryogen-free magnetometer with resistivity, thermal
 transport, and 3He options (CFMS) for ultra-low temperature measurements, and a maskless
 photolithography system accompanied by an ion miller for top down fabrication of devices. Unit
 staff also proactively collaborate across the University to access additional experimental facilities,
 such as a new confocal AFM in the Department of Materials, awarded under an EPSRC Strategic
 Equipment call.

 The addition of a clean room and ancillary fabrication equipment, such as the maskless
 photolithography system to the various structural, surface, magnetic and electric characterisation
 techniques, has enabled a wider breadth of research. This includes advances in spintronics,


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 memristors, 2D materials and novel magnetic and superconducting states, all of which have
 received funding during this REF period.

 Unit research is also supported by access to state-of-the-art facilities in the Loughborough
 Materials Characterisation Centre (LMCC), which contains over £6M of equipment including:
 • Surface analysis such as X-Ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy (XPS), Micro X-ray Fluorescence
    (µXRF) and Scanning Electron and Transmission Electron Microscopy (SEM & TEM) with
    various secondary detectors.
 • Optical Microscopy
 • Thermal Analysis

 Our research and impact activities are also advanced by support from the Loughborough-funded
 High Performance Computing (HPC) service, which comprises the Hydra cluster (a 2460-core 64-
 bit Intel Xeon cluster supplied by Bull) and the Tier-2 HPC Midlands Plus funded by EPSRC and
 hosted by Loughborough on behalf of the Midlands Innovation partnership of the 8 research-
 intensive universities in the Midlands.

 In order to access major large-scale facilities, Unit staff secured beamtime and facility in-kind
 support exceeding £4.8M from ILL, ESRF Grenoble, the ISIS Neutron and Muon source, STFC
 and Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. These have enabled world class measurements on,
 for example, magnetic proximity effects in multilayer films (Morrison, Banerjee), magnetic
 excitations in bulk alloys (Morrison) and high-resolution powder diffraction of functional materials
 under strain (Kusmartseva).

 4. Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society

 4.1 Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

 To fulfil our strategic objectives to extend reach beyond our institutional boundaries and encourage
 a dynamic, effective, and inclusive research environment, we prioritised development of
 collaborations with world-leading groups, some new and some an expansion of existing
 collaborations. This was aided by travel grants, development of the School’s Interdisciplinary
 Research Centres, which brought international conferences/workshops to Loughborough, the IAS
 visitor programmes, and the School’s Maria Agnesi Fellowships, which supported study leave of
 Zagoskin (University of Notre Dame, USA, and MISIS, Moscow), and Betouras (Crete, TU Munich,
 Toulouse, and the Max Planck Institute of Physics of Complex Systems, Dresden). Our Landau
 Seminars, which attract world-leading researchers to give talks across broad areas of physics,
 also played an important role in establishing new collaborations. For the REF period, we invited
 on average 25 scholars per year to give Landau seminars on topics from as diverse as
 conversation analysis to antimatter imbalance in the universe.

 In total, Unit staff enjoyed collaborations with 87 international groups across 22 countries. The
 world-leading institutions with whom we continue to have ongoing projects include: MIT, University
 of Massachusetts Amherst, Boston University, Lawrence Berkeley National Labs, Harvard
 University, Salk Institute for Biological Studies, Texas A&M University, University of Cambridge,
 Oxford University, University of Manchester (Nobel Laureates Geim’s and Novoselov’s groups),
 University of Nottingham, Tokyo Institute of Technology, National Institute of Advanced Industrial
 Science and Technology (Japan), École polytechnique fédérale de Lausanne (Switzerland), TU
 Munich (Germany) and MPI-CPFS, Dresden (Germany). For example, Banerjee is collaborating
 with Prof. Jagadeesh Moodera's group at MIT’s Francis Bitter Magnet Lab on designing
 experiments to directly detect the unconventional mechanism of superconductivity; Saveliev
 worked closely with Prof Yang’s group from University of Massachusetts Amherst and Prof.
 Albright from Salk on pioneering research in volatile diffusive memristors to emulate brain
 activities. Greenaway collaborates with Profs Geim and Novoselov on describing electrical and
 transport properties of graphene and van der Waals materials. Everitt works with Dr. Tilma from
 Tokyo Institute of Technology on Wigner function tomography for quantum nano and smart

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 devices. These collaborations resulted in joint publications, including 19 articles in Science,
 Nature, Nature Communications and Nature Research journals.

 Our extensive visiting programme has supported visits of world-leading scholars including Prof.
 Mele (University of Pennsylvania, Leverhulme Professorship), Prof. Chubukov (University of
 Minnesota, Leverhulme Professorship), Prof. Anlage (University of Maryland, IAS Fellow), Prof.
 J.S. Moodera (MIT, IAS Fellow), Prof. Khramov (Innopolis University, Russia, School-funded),
 Prof. Marchesoni (Universita' di Camerino, School-funded). This programme not only added to the
 Physics’ international visibility and reputation, but also allowed us to strengthen our research
 portfolio and seeded research funding. Our approach to establish collaborations through
 participation in conferences and seminars and then advancement of them through mutual visits
 yielded several successful joint research grants.

 The above collaborations contributed significantly to the enrichment of our research environment.
 For example, our long-term research collaboration with HP Labs/Texas A&M University on
 polarons (Profs Alexandrov and Williams who delivered the Mott lecture 2018) seeded extremely
 successful joint research in memristive devices, with excellent publications (e.g., “Memristors with
 diffusive dynamics as synaptic emulators for neuromorphic computing” in Nature Materials, “Fully
 memristive neural networks for pattern classification with unsupervised learning” in Nature
 Electronics, “A novel true random number generator based on a stochastic diffusive memristor” in
 Nature Communications) and contributions to the EPSRC Awards on Neuromorphic memristive
 circuits and Oxide Recurrent Neural Networks that underpin future plans (§1.4).

 4.1.1 Key research users, beneficiaries or audiences
 The Unit’s 5-point Impact Strategy (§1.3) has helped to develop strong collaborative links with
 industrial users. With the support of PDMs, Unit staff proactively develop contacts with industry at
 conferences, policy-making events, industrial exhibitions (such as The AI Summit London), and
 via personal contacts. The main industrial partners were invited to the School Industrial Advisory
 Board established by SSci in 2019.

 Prominent collaborations include: research on neuromorphic memristive circuits to simulate
 inhibitory and excitatory dynamics of neuron networks with Hewlett-Packard (USA) and Arm
 Holdings (UK); synthetic materials using metallic and non-metallic nanoparticles at microwave
 frequencies with European Space Agency (International) and IMST GmbH (Germany);
 acoustoelectric methods for the generation, manipulation and detection of THz Radiation with
 Teledyne e2v (USA/UK); quantum system engineering with DSTL (UK); testing and optimising a
 measurement technique geared towards studying magnetism at high pressure with Almax-easylab
 (Belgium); designing novel algorithms to simulate large quantum coherent systems using GPU
 processors supported by NVIDIA Corporation (USA); synthesis optimisation of transition metal
 dichalcogenides films with QinetiQ (UK); and novel sensors and imaging systems for nuclear
 medicine with Serac Imaging Systems Ltd (UK).

 We also focussed our efforts on other promising impacts, (i) related to magnetic energy harvesting
 (supported by an EPSRC Fellowship), (ii) sensors and imaging for nuclear medicine in
 collaboration with clinical partners (Sheffield University Hospitals) and with Serac Imaging
 Systems Ltd, and (iii) neuromorphic AI technologies (supported by several current EPSRC grants).

 4.1.2 Wider contributions to the economy and society
 Unit staff proactively promote science among diverse groups of the general public and in schools.
 Key activities included: developing a 'Thermal Measurement' Subject in a Box Activity for GCSE
 students, developing multiple outreach activities and workshops for the “Science in the Community
 day” at Loughborough (at least annually with more than 500 visitors), developing and running
 workshop on Wind Power for the annual Ford Fund Residential for Girls (annually, ~50
 participants), coordinating observatory visits for local beavers/scouts/rainbows groups as part of
 their 'space' badge (around 100 visitors annually), and local school talks. Staff have also
 participated in Big Bang Fairs (London and Derby), the annual "Science in the Park" and "Light


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Night" in Nottingham, and in development of a new Girlguiding badge "I'm a Physicist", which has
 distributed over 20,000 badges (>100,000 hours of physics at an average of 5 hours per badge),
 and is currently being rolled out to the rest of the UK.

 4.1.3 Engaging with diverse communities and publics
 We are committed to engaging with popular science and gave a number of interviews and
 presentations for the popular media. Recent examples include BBC’s “The One Show" about our
 pioneering noise barrier technology (Sonobex) and three BBC Radio Leicester interviews about
 the neuromorphic artificial “brain”, Weyl semimetals and future technologies, and energy
 harvesting and the spin Seebeck effect. Recent popular articles have included “Thermal imaging
 of the Thomson effect” for Physics World (02/04/2019) and APS Physics Viewpoint (02/09/2020),
 and an interview to RIA Novosti -- Russian News Agency – on the perspectives of quantum
 computers.

 Since 1995, the Department of Physics has run the prestigious Sir Nevill Mott Lecture series, an
 annual lecture for the general public with which Nobel Prize winner Sir Nevill permitted his name
 to be associated in recognition of his collaborations with the Department. Invited speakers include
 eight Nobel Prize Laureates. For this assessment period, we invited world leading scholars:
 Professors Stanley Williams, Michael Kosterlitz (2016 Nobel Prize winner), Zahid Hasan, Yuri
 Pashkin, Sir David Wallace, and Sir John Pendry.

 4.2 Contribution to the Sustainability of the Discipline

 Unit staff have served as members of STFC Public Engagement Early-Career (PEER) Forum,
 East Midlands IoP Committee (Morrison), and delivered keynote talks at the IoP supported
 National Student conference (Chesca, Saveliev, 2018). In 2016-19, a team headed by Everitt
 delivered training in the emerging field of quantum system engineering for over 50 DSTL and
 EPSRC-funded PhD students from the Bristol CDT and various quantum technology hubs.

 The Unit also runs workshops and events that attract a mixture of academics, industrial partners
 and private investors including: School supported workshops (Magnetic and topological materials,
 spintronics, and neuromorphic devices); EPSRC network plus meetings on classical and quantum
 emergence and physics far from equilibrium; a Dstl meeting on Defence & Security Quantum
 Community; and the Innovative Energy Harvesting Special Interest KTN Group launch in 2016.

 The discipline leadership of Unit staff has also been recognised by 3 APS Fellowships and 5 IoP
 Fellowships.

 4.3 Indicators of Wider Influence

 As active contributors to the Physics community, Unit staff participate on grant committees for
 various national and international funding bodies including ERC, EPSRC (3 staff are members of
 the EPSRC Peer Review College), STFC, Royal Society, the Leverhulme Trust, H2020 (including
 Evaluation Panels), Israel Science Foundation, US-Israel Binational Foundation, WM Keck
 foundation (US), National Science Foundation (USA), Russian Science Foundation, Research
 Foundation – Flanders, Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research, National Natural
 Science Foundation of China, German Research Council, Human Frontier Science Program, Irish
 Research Council, CINT Los Alamos, South Africa’s National Research Foundation (NRF), and
 Carnegie Trust.

 Unit staff have increased their influence on advisory boards and in policy making. Eberlein
 contributes to Institute of Physics (IoP) policy as a member of IoP Council (2020-present), while
 Everitt serves on IoP’s Accreditation Review Group (2017-present), having also served on the
 2016 QAA Subject Benchmark Statement Review group which revised of the nationwide university
 curriculum in Physics. Zagoskin is a member (2017-present) of the international advisory board
 for the NEDO project dedicated to the development of Japanese quantum computer at the National


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST). Morrison is a member (2020-
 present) of EPSRC Physical Sciences Strategic Advisory Team and the Reflectometry Scientific
 and Technical Advisory Panel for the European Spallation Source (2019-present).

 Our increasing influence in our research theme areas has resulted in formal international
 recognition for a growing number of Unit staff, evidenced by honorary and visiting positions
 such as:

 •   Balanov (Visiting Scientist, Saratov State University);
 •   Bugby (Visiting Professor, Universidad de la República, Uruguay);
 •   Morrison (Visiting Scientist, Imperial College London);
 •   Zagoskin (Visiting Professor, MISIS Moscow and Visiting Researcher Fellow in RIKEN Japan);
 •   Kusmartsev (Visiting Professor at University Roma (TOV), Professor of Excellence at St
     Petersburg University (ITMO), and Professor of Excellence at Peking University, China, and
     Fellow of International Institute of Physics (FIIP) Brazil).
 •   Saveliev (Visiting Researcher, Augsburg, Salk Institute for Biological Studies); and

 Saveliev was recognised by the prestigious Friedrich Wilhelm Bessel Research Award from the
 Alexander von Humboldt Foundation, for his outstanding contribution to Brownian and nanomotor
 research and THz superconducting electronics. This award supported Saveliev’s honorary
 position at the University of Augsburg held until 2015.

 The Unit contributed to setting quality targets for the international academic community by
 accepting invitations for Journal Editorship. Six staff have served as editors for the following
 journals: (Q1 by SJR ranking) Superconductor Science and Technology, Scientific Reports, and
 (Q2 by SJR) Europhysics Letters and Frontiers in Physics. Additionally, two Unit staff served as
 guest editors for New Journal of Physics Focus Issue on Time Crystals and a special issue of the
 Proceedings of the Royal Society (both Q1 by SJR).

 Unit staff gave over 160 invited talks and 13 plenary and keynote talks at international
 conferences, and chaired international conferences on 10 occasions. Examples include Invited
 talks at: the APS March meeting (2016, 2017), MRS Spring Meeting, (2020-online), EPS
 Condensed Matter Division Conference and DPG Condensed Matter Division, Berlin, Germany
 (2018), SPIE Spintronics at San Diego (2020).




                                                                                         Page 15
