Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of the West of Scotland
 Unit of Assessment: 24: Sport and Exercise and Leisure and Tourism
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Structure of research
 This REF cycle has seen UWS expand the research base contributing to UOA24 significantly.
 Following REF 2014, the University undertook strategic appointments of world leading staff
 enabling significant subject area diversification and enhanced research capacity. These
 appointments resulted in (1) the expansion of the staff complement within the existing Institute
 for Clinical Exercise and Health Science (ICEHS) and (2) the parallel formation of the Centre
 for Sport Culture and Events (CCSE), led by Prof Gayle McPherson. Since then, ICEHS and
 CCSE have together overseen the strategic direction of sport, leisure and tourism research within
 UWS ensuring effective collaboration across disciplines and supporting the University wide theme
 of sport and society. The ongoing development of Sport research at UWS means that over the
 course of this REF cycle the two groups have together overseen more than a million pounds of
 specialist laboratory redevelopment, a tripling of our research active staff, and a six-fold
 increase in research income. The expertise available within the two groups is extensive,
 including sport performance, behaviour change, health, leisure, tourism and culture, and in the
 case of CCSE, its staff reaches across three Schools within the University.

 ICEHS is based in the Lanarkshire campus, and is strategically managed by the Institute Chair
 (Prof. Sculthorpe) and research theme leads. The formal business of the Institute occurs during
 once-per-trimester meetings to which all staff are invited. However, the role of the Institute includes
 supporting ECR staff with outputs and funding applications, managing research student
 applications, organising internal peer review for all funding applications for its staff, and providing
 training and research meetings to support wider staff development. Since its inception, the focus
 of the institute has been on three main areas; sport performance, exercise for health, and sport
 and society. There is substantial overlap in all three areas such that there can be some synergy
 in the focus of research projects, an approach which has been encouraged to foster greater inter-
 group collaboration.

 The CCSE works across three of the University’s campuses with a physical base in Paisley. The
 Centre Director (McPherson) and Deputy Director (McGillivray) are supported by a full-time
 Research Associate (Dr Mamattah). To enhance its connectedness and influence in its areas of
 interest, the Centre has established a Steering Group including academics and key partners from
 industry, NGO’s and third sector partners including: Creative Scotland (Scotland’s national
 cultural agency), EventScotland (Scotland’s primary event tourism agency), the British Council
 (the UK’s international organisation for cultural relations), the Glasgow Centre for Population
 Health (who advise the Scottish Government), Carnegie Trust UK (organisation promoting
 community and societal wellbeing across the UK), and Glasgow Life (responsible for sport,
 culture and events in Glasgow). Consequently, the CCSE Steering Group has unrivalled
 knowledge and experience of working within the fields of art, culture, events, tourism and sport
 within Scotland and the UK. This group combines substantial experience with strategic knowledge
 of each the sectors and have proven hugely valuable in guiding the direction of CCSE.

 1.2 Research Objectives
 In the 2014 REF submission, the aims of ICEHS were (1) to produce world-leading research that
 (2) generates new insights and practice in Sport Science, (3) responds to the health challenges of
 the communities we work with and (4) underpins and informs our taught portfolio. These aims
 were based on the research of ICEHS specifically, since CCSE would not come into being until
 2018. In order to achieve these aims ICEHS undertook several strategic objectives (SO’s)
 following the 2014 exercise. These included (SO1) to streamline and refocus research within the
 institute, (SO2) to increase research and enterprise income, (SO3) increase the number of staff
 engaged in research while maintaining high quality research outputs, (SO4) develop the research
 culture with a focus on excellence and impact.



Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The CCSE was formed 4-years later with the aim of complementing the research expertise within
 ICEHS. In contrast to ICEHS in which all staff sit within the same division, CCSE was intended to
 have broader, interdisciplinary research aims, with staff distributed across different divisions and
 schools. Correspondingly, CCSE developed its own strategic objectives which included: 1)
 translating research evidence into outputs that will contribute to academic excellence and
 influence policy makers and practitioners, working in the sphere of culture, sport and events; 2)
 producing research evidence to support the importance of culture, sport and events in the creation
 of economic, social and cultural values for institutional and non-institutional beneficiaries; 3)
 utilising a range of robust and innovative methodological approaches to undertake research that
 helps evidence and showcase the benefits of culture, sport and events, working with intended
 beneficiaries in the production of research outputs; 4) communicating and promoting its activities
 using proactive communication strategies, informed by the need to translate research outputs into
 accessible resources for a range of research users.

 1.2.1 Review of REF2014
 The 2014 Research Excellence Framework (REF) saw the first ever UWS submission to unit of
 assessment 26, Sport and Exercise Science and Leisure and Tourism. The results of that
 submission were highly encouraging receiving 3 or 4* ratings on almost 50% of the submitted
 outputs. Clearly, at that time, Sport research was still in its early stages with the research culture
 within the Institute still being established. Following REF2014, and in line with ICEHS SO1, a
 review of research structures resulted in the formation of three research themes to better focus
 the areas of excellence that REF2014 had identified. (i) Health across the life-span which
 capitalised on existing expertise in childhood health and successful ageing; (ii) nutrition,
 environment and sports performance which aimed to expand our research base in nutritional
 ergogenic aids and evaluation of sport performance; (iii) sport and society with a focus on sport
 psychology and sport sociology and communities.

 Following REF 2014, Profs. McPherson and McGillivray led an expansion of the research focus
 on Sport, tourism and events, and participation and policy; building on the world leading research
 they had conducted on the impact of mega-sports events. This meant that the work of the then
 ‘Creative Futures Institute’ (returned to UOA34 in 2014) was becoming increasingly aligned with
 UOA24. A strategic decision that this research would be returned to UOA24 led to the development
 of the CCSE to conduct research, development, consultancy and knowledge exchange activities
 aligned to four key themes that fit within UOA24’s remit: place-focused cultural regeneration; arts,
 cultural diplomacy, and soft power; media, communication and digital cultures; sport, sport and
 cultural events and festivals; building on the track record for outputs and impact of Profs
 McPherson and McGillivray.

 1.2.2 Current REF period
 Given the investment in ICEHS, this REF cycle has seen a dramatic shift in both the quality and
 quantity of our research output. UWS is a multi-campus University and in 2018, as part of a larger
 UWS wide development plan, an investment of approximately GBP120,000,000 was undertaken
 to relocate the School of Health and Life Sciences to a purpose-built campus located in
 Lanarkshire, including the redevelopment of teaching and research laboratories. Consequently,
 since 2014 ICEHS research facilities have been enhanced substantially. This has included large
 scale investment in two new 'state of the art' teaching labs, as well as bespoke Consultancy Lab,
 Cardiovascular Imaging Suite, a Biochemistry Laboratories, a Rehabilitation Suite, and an
 Extreme Environments Lab, housing one of the largest, purpose built environmental chambers
 in Scotland. Taken together, and including equipment and refurbishment, this represents a multi-
 million pound investment in Sport and Exercise research which has significantly expanded both
 our applied and basic research capacity and enhanced our ability to attract high quality staff and
 research students.

 The development of the CCSE was a collaborative partnership between the University of the West
 of Scotland (UWS) and Renfrewshire Council (RC) including matched investment from both
 organisations: GBP197,000 from Renfrewshire Council, plus 0.2FTE in-kind support from senior
 policy staff and GBP180,000 for 3 PhD students from UWS along with in-kind support of 0.2FTE

Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 from Prof McPherson. The CCSE provides an overarching framework, offering organisational
 support and guidance for staff research. It also provides a physical presence with rooms and
 spaces to facilitate the collaborative research and development work that has had local, national
 and international reach.

 This REF cycle has also seen expansion of both ICEHS and CCSE, and a focus of both has been
 to ensure that research active staff maintain their high-level of scholarly outputs (e.g., ICEHS
 SO3), that new staff are supported to develop into their role as research active academics, and
 that existing staff new to research are supported and mentored to develop their research profile.
 This focus has been effective with a substantial increase in research productivity. Together the
 two groups have produced over 500 scholarly outputs in this REF cycle, including highly cited
 impactful work, work in highly ranked journals, and work that has contributed to policy changes,
 and position stands. Consequently, we believe that this is strong evidence of a supportive, and
 proactive research environment, and establishes UWS as having global significance in Sport and
 Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism research.

 For ICEHS, outputs have risen from 140 from 9.2 FTEs in 2014 to 360 outputs from 21.6 FTEs in
 the current cycle. The supportive research strategy has also paid wider dividends, raising the
 profile of Sport research at UWS. The 2019 Shanghai Research Rankings, an assessment of
 research quality based on outputs, citations, and journal rankings, placed ICEHS in the top 100
 Sport Science Research Institutes Globally, one of only 2 Scottish and 13 UK Universities to
 make the top 100. Similarly, CCSE has been equally proactive in ensuring the development of a
 supportive research environment and in seeking high quality research outputs, resulting in 264
 outputs from 12 staff since its inception in 2018.

 The current REF cycle has also seen substantial support for, and development of, our internal
 research culture. Since 2017 external funding has enabled ICEHS to host an annual lecture
 sponsored by the Physiological Society with presenters including a variety of world-leading
 researchers both national (Prof Jones – LJMU; Dr Anni Vanhatalo – Exeter; Dr Dan Martin –
 Lincoln) and international (Prof Allen – Victoria University, Aus; Dr Porcelli – Italian National
 Research Council) as well as from industry (Dr Randall GSSI, Dr Gomez Diaz, FC Barcelona).
 More recently, ICEHS was successful in bidding for the rights to host the 2021 Congress for the
 European College of Sport Science (now 2024 following delays due to the current pandemic).
 This is the 2nd largest Sports Science conference in the world and UWS was proud to win the
 extremely competitive bidding process to deliver this world-class event and sees it as recognition
 for the significant development in our research quality and profile since 2014.

 CCSE have also developed substantially since hosting the Leisure Studies Association
 Conference in 2014, attracting national TV coverage at the time. Their parasport research was
 shortlisted before winning the Gold Research Impact Award at the Herald Commonwealth
 Games Awards 2014. The CCSE seminar series, which moved online during COVID-19 to
 become #CCSEConversations and also included internal and external speakers in the field of
 sport, leisure and tourism has attracted contributions from North America, Australia, Europe and
 the Global South. CCSE also provides a valuable vehicle for the development of research culture
 and excellence through the numerous research projects managed by its staff.

 Taken together, this REF cycle has seen a step change in our research and our development over
 the 6 years since 2014 has been substantial and continues to progress. Our two research groups
 have published cutting edge research across the whole breadth of domains under UOA24.
 Moreover, the presence of multiple other esteem indicator such as large-scale investment,
 hosting top-tier international conferences, world ranking for research, and year-on-year
 growth in outputs, income, and research student completions provides compelling evidence
 that our staff benefit from a strong, research environment. This has been developed strategically
 over the past decade, building on key appointments and investment, providing a vital and
 progressive environment that has deep roots and long-term sustainability.

 1.2.3 Strategy: Next Five Years

Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UWS’ updated 5-year strategy (UWS Strategy 2020-2025) includes institutional goals critical for
 the future of ICEHS and CCSE including research aligned to the United Nations Sustainable
 Development Goals (UN SDGs) including ageing, sport, health, and communities and culture. The
 strategy recognises the power of physical activity and sport, and pledges for UWS to become
 Scotland’s leading Sport university. Consequently, the next 5 years will require both ICEHS and
 CCSE to refocus their approach on these wider institutional goals. To do this we will build upon
 the excellent progress within subject specialisms while also proactively seeking out opportunities
 to exploit the interdisciplinary breadth available across both ICEHS and CCSE. Consequently, the
 primary aims of both groups are to:

         (i) maintain the trajectory in income and world-leading research established over the past
         decade.
         (ii) improve the lives of those touched by sport, exercise, tourism, culture and events
         ensuring our research is grounded in the UN SDGs and addresses contemporary and
         emerging challenges.
         (iii) seek out opportunities to consolidate our strengths both subject specific, and
         interdisciplinary.
         (iv) capitalise on our international research networks, and location to undertake research
         that supports our communities but that can be applied globally.

 In achieving these aims, both ICEHS and CCSE will focus on sustainable growth allied to strategic
 activities including promoting, retaining, or recruiting high quality staff to complement the
 existing staff expertise. Both groups will also seek to grow post-graduate numbers, seeking out
 national and international opportunities for development in line with expanding supervisory
 capacity. Meeting the aims will require us to build greater strategic partnerships with industry,
 policy makers, health agencies, service providers and NGOs to strengthen the impact of our
 research. We will seek to increase the proportion of funding applications to larger, multi-
 institution calls including European, Governmental, and UKRI calls. We will expand our current
 COVID-19 research to include supporting post-pandemic recovery. We will also further enhance
 our research environment and make research excellence a reality for all staff by providing high
 quality support, mentorship, and training. This will include providing support for staff whose
 research has been most affected by COVID-19 and social distancing measures, to prevent
 losing a generation of researchers. Furthermore, this will involve a rapid roll-out of those projects
 (such as #EventsRights) which are funded but have been on hold during the pandemic. Finally,
 we will further develop collaborative work between the Institute and the Centre including joint
 research seminars, workshops, and integration of interdisciplinary teams in the development of
 funding proposals.

 1.3 Achievement of impact
 Both ICEHS and CCSE undertook specific strategies to ensure that their research was impactful,
 and to enable impact to be identified. This was achieved in two phases, first by ensuring staff
 research was aligned to the University’s research priorities focussing on the UN SDGs, (prior to
 2018 these were Society, Sustainability and Health). While for some staff this required refocussing
 on the impact of their research, much of the UOA’s output was already aligned, for example, key
 work from CCSE staff aligns with the SDGs and the centre works with Non-Public Development
 Bodies, Non-Governmental Organisations, and the Chief Scientists Office for Scotland (CSO), in
 delivering those goals. This first stage focussed staff to consider the areas in which their research
 would have impact, and to plan for impact early in the research process.

 Allied to this was a requirement for research impact to be specifically identified during the internal
 review of funding applications, requiring researchers to identify the pathway for impact arising from
 the meeting the research need, and where relevant, a dissemination and impact plan for the
 findings. By embedding this in the internal peer review, it enabled researchers to consider the
 impact potential of their work, regardless of whether or not such information was required by the
 funder. Further support was provided via a comprehensive training and development plan. ICEHS
 and CCSE leads (Profs McPherson and Sculthorpe) undertook a series of cross-campus impact
 workshops to help staff better understand what is meant by research ‘having impact’, including a

Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 detailed examination of high-scoring impact case studies from REF 2014, a detailed discussion of
 the types of impact (e.g., direct health impact, financial impact, attitudinal impacts, policy impacts),
 the difference between pathway to impact and impact itself, how to better identify and evidence
 impact, and the importance of designing impact and impact assessments into project proposals
 from the start.

 1.3.1 Impact Case Studies and Impact Approach
 Both ICEHS and CCSE have ensured that their research is impactful, with societal benefits, in two
 main ways. Early in the REF period ICEHS took the strategic decision to focus on research strands
 that had real world applications in one of the key areas of sport performance, health, and social
 sciences. In addition, work of the sport performance research strand within ICEHS coalesced
 around the broader theme of supporting athlete health. This was supported with research time,
 PGR support and impact workshops to determine how the potential for our research to improve
 the lives of athletes could best be achieved. Consequently, the outputs from this ICS have been
 cited in leading recommendations and position stands, have been used to inform practice and
 policy in elite sport, or have influenced the training and development of Sport Scientists
 undertaking accredited pathways (outlined in impact case studies). We also sought to maximise
 our relationship with key regional stakeholders, including NHS Lanarkshire with whom Dr Buchan
 supervised 3 co-funded PhD students evaluating NHS Lanarkshire ‘Child Healthy Weight’. Again
 utilising support via research time, PGR student funding and workshops, this work subsequently
 informed the development of the policy.

 CCSE developed their impact case study (ICS) with national and international policy and practice
 communities in the area of parasport, major sport events and festivals. Prof McPherson sat on the
 OECD group that produced recommendations for the global benefits of major sport events for local
 development. Profs McPherson and McGillivray have presented to a Scottish Government
 Parliamentary session on the legacies of the 2014 Commonwealth Games. McGillivray has
 spoken at several public events in 2020 focused on the relationship between festivals, events and
 public space, drawing on his research project, Festspace. He is also participating in a BBC
 Scotland commission on land ownership in Scotland focusing on how public spaces are privatised.
 McPherson has given keynote presentations to the Global Strategy Forum at Whitehall on the role
 of art and culture in global security and stability (based on British Council funded research) and
 then presented as an invited key expert to the EUNIC/Ministry for Culture and Education, Cyprus
 2-day workshop with Diplomats and Cultural Institute leaders on the contribution of art, culture and
 sport to conflict prevention and peace. One of our current PhD students has secured the role of
 the Municipal Secretary of Culture, in Colombia and has just been nominated as one of the most
 influential young women in politics in Colombia, again showing the impact of our research
 programmes around the world. Structurally, CCSE supports its members to prioritise impact by
 ensuring that dissemination or knowledge exchange activities linked to research projects are
 monitored and documented. Dr Mamattah supports colleagues to capture impact through writing
 blog posts and collating information generated from seminars, workshop and other events
 organised by the Centre.

 1.4 Interdisciplinary Research
 The work of both ICEHS and CCSE is influenced by the University’s larger strategic plan to
 address major global challenges using interdisciplinary teams. Studies funded by the Chief
 Scientist Office for Scotland (CSO) have used interdisciplinary teams to examine the role of
 exercise in the treatment of people with Multiple Sclerosis and to promote behaviour change in
 physical activity during social isolation. Other interdisciplinary studies include: supporting athletes
 and educating coaches about female health in women’s rugby, physical and psychological benefits
 of walking football in older adults and adults with dementia, understanding school-based activity
 interventions, and stroke patients’ perceptions of a biosensing rehabilitation glove. Each of these
 examples have used cross-school interdisciplinary research teams, with a variety of skills including
 expertise in physiology, psychology and behaviour change, biomechanics, and social science
 while also being informed by both qualitative and quantitative research paradigms.



Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 There has been a substantive increase in the interdisciplinary research undertaken between
 ICEHS and CCSE and within CCSE itself. This has included collaborative projects between CCSE
 and ICEHS with the Observatory for Sport Scotland. Prof Davidson (ICEHS) was instrumental in
 establishing the Observatory for Sport in Scotland (OSS). Prof Gayle McPherson (CCSE) has
 since joined the Research Advisory Group of the OSS. Profs Davidson, McPherson and
 McGillivray have since submitted evidence to the Scottish Government Health and Sport
 Committee on 'Social Prescribing of Physical Activity and Sport'. Similarly, a post-doctoral
 researcher working with both CCSE and ICEHS has now been recruited to a full time, permanent
 position in ICEHS (Dr Carlin). ICEHS staff have also been able to participate in the EventRights
 mobilities project led by Prof. McGillivray, undertaking research focused on human rights around
 major and mega sport events (currently on hold due to COVID-19) and Prof. Sculthorpe has
 presented a keynote talk to Scottish Tourism regarding health and adventure tourism. Funding
 collaborations with PIs in ICEHS and CCSE are in development, and May 2021 will see the first
 joint research seminar between ICEHS and CCSE with a specific theme of seeking out
 interdisciplinary opportunities.

 1.5 Open Research Environment
 UWS is a member of the Springer Open Choice, one of the “Read and Publish” deals the institution
 has signed with publishers, and ICEHS have used this as one of the main approaches to ensuring
 open access to as many research papers as possible. In addition, where available, research
 funding and internal funds have been used to support Gold open access publishing. As a result,
 approximately a third of our total research output since 2014 is open access, and 80% of our REF
 submission is open access, partly through the Gold route and the remainder being available via
 UWS’ research repository through the Green open access route. CCSE is equally committed to
 making its research outputs as accessible as possible, as research is published via regular reports,
 uploaded to Issuu.com and available free of charge, and where funding is in place, key research
 outputs are made available Open Access. CSSE also publishes blog posts, #CCSEConversations
 and online conferences to ensure that our research is accessible to a range of audiences, including
 policy and practitioner communities.

 1.6 Research Integrity
 UWS (and by extension ICEHS and CCSE) is committed to the Concordat to Support Research
 Integrity, and the Code of Practice for Research. This ensures that our research approaches are
 honest, rigorous, and transparent, and with respect for participants and the environment.
 Moreover, both ICEHS and CCSE undertake research on human participants, and both groups
 are governed by the University’s regulations on the ethical treatment of human subjects. At a local
 level, this is managed by School based Research Ethics Committees. In line with the Concordat,
 the University Ethics Committee acts as the arbiter where there are appeals against School level
 decisions.

 2. People

 2.1 Staff Development Strategy
 Recruitment in the lead up to 2014 included 3 research active academic staff in ICEHS, with the
 potential to move into leadership positions. Moreover, our student body has seen year-on-year
 growth since 2014, enabling an increase in staffing, requiring a coherent staff development policy
 aimed at satisfying both research and teaching needs. The establishment of CCSE in 2018, and
 the associated appointments preceding that, also meant that there was a substantial increase in
 staff with world-leading sociocultural reputations. Consequently, both Institutes, with strong
 support from their respective schools, have employed a sustainable approach to ensure they have
 a mix of experienced staff undertaking high-level research, and new academics with the potential
 to become leaders in their fields. This strategy has included recruiting high performing early career
 researchers to new positions, promoting existing research active staff engaged in world-leading
 research into new leadership positions, and strategic new appointments at Professorial and
 Reader level where required. This approach means that staffing base of both ICEHS and CCSE
 is now more balanced, with experienced leaders in physiology, psychology, and sociocultural
 domains. This strategy is part of the overarching research and impact strategy to increase the

Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 number, and expertise of staff within ICEHS and CCSE, ensuring the sustainability and viability of
 both groups.

 2.2 Staffing and Recruitment
 Internal promotions to Senior Lecturer, Reader or Professor are strong indicators that research
 institutes provide the support and professional development necessary for high-quality research
 and represents the ‘value added’ to individual careers. ICEHS has successfully developed in-
 house staff with the potential to become leaders. Professor Sculthorpe joined UWS in 2013, was
 returned in REF2014 as a Reader and was promoted to Professor in 2018 and has an international
 reputation in cardiac assessment in older adults with over 60 peer review papers since joining
 UWS. Professor Easton joined UWS in 2014 and was returned in REF 2014 as a lecturer, was
 promoted to Reader in 2016 and to Professor in 2019 as a world leader in nitrate supplementation
 with over 50 peer-review papers since joining. In addition, on successful completion of her PhD,
 Dr McEwan was promoted to Senior Lecturer with a growing reputation in the training and
 development of sport psychologists.

 Recruitment has also included specific academic leaders, and ‘high potential’ ECRs each aligned
 to a specific theme within each institute. Professor Davison was appointed in 2016 with a world-
 reputation for cycling science and elite performance. Professor Unnithan was appointed in 2017
 as a recognised leader in paediatric exercise science and youth football science having
 collaborations with Celtic FC and multiple English Premier League, Championship and
 European football clubs. Mid-career appointments include Dr Dello Iacono with a strong
 background in strength and conditioning, and Dr Mair with an international reputation in physical
 activity and behaviour change. At the ECR level we have also appointed research active staff
 including Drs Hayes, Valentin, Arthur, Bobrownicki, Cowan and Macrae with expertise in
 physiology, biomechanics, psychology, and socio-cultural aspects of sport respectively.

 As part of CCSE, Dr Turner was employed as Senior Lecturer and has since been promoted to
 Deputy Dean. Similarly, Dr Carnicelli was promoted to Senior Lecturer in 2016 and has a world
 leading reputation in tourism. He is co-chair of the Royal Society of Edinburgh Youth panel and
 has worked in Brazil and Australia. In addition, two ECRs with potential to become leaders in
 their fields have also been recruited (Dr Sharp and Ms. Flinn, who is completing her Prof Doc).
 Thus, the staff appointments, allied to the leadership of existing Professors McPherson and
 McGillivray, mean that the Centre benefits from experienced leaders while also having the
 potential for continued growth.

 2.3 Support for Early Career Researchers
 Both ICEHS and CCSE have strong support for ECRs including academic staff and post-doctoral
 researchers. In terms of ECR support, both research groups provide a forum for ECRs to discuss
 research development and writing support sessions for funding applications and academic
 articles. Internally, 8 ECRs across both institutes have attended the UWS Grant Accelerator
 Scheme in which ECRs are mentored by a senior academic through their first grant application.
 Similarly, 4 staff have attended the UWS Crucible, a leadership and development programme for
 those ECRs identified as having the potential to be research leaders of the future. In addition, bids
 for internally funded PhD students must include an ECR with appropriate expertise within the
 supervisory team.

 ICEHS and CCSE are extremely effective at providing a supportive and developmental
 environment for post-doctoral researchers to develop alongside their main support duties, in line
 with the updated Concordat to Support Career Development of Researchers. Of the 7 post-
 doctoral staff employed in the current REF cycle, two are still in post (Dr Guillard, Dr Mamattah)
 while all of the remaining 5 have successfully secured permanent, full time academic positions (Dr
 Muggeridge (UHI), Dr Michan (Strathclyde), Dr Campbell (York St John), Dr McCandlish (Glasgow
 University) and Dr Carlin (Recruited to ICEHS while at a post-doc position with CCSE)). In addition,
 we have also had a number of research assistant positions, again with a strong emphasis on
 development, which in one case supported progression to a (now completed) PhD award (Dr
 Burleigh) and who is currently also employed as Senior Lab Technician at UWS.

Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.4 Academia – Industry Exchange
 Both institutes contribute locally, nationally, and internationally to other groups, and wider research
 networks in order to support high-level knowledge transfer and impact. Examples of such work
 includes (1) FESTSPACE, contributing to the role of festivals in producing inclusive public space
 in Europe (McGillivray, GBP541,000) (2) EventsRights collaboration with major sport event
 awarding bodies to enshrine human rights in major and mega sport events (GBP677,000; on hold
 due to COVID-19), (3) Collaboration with Renfrewshire Council, (McPherson, GBP197,000),
 (4) Creating a framework for the Social Value of Community Events for Spirit of 2012 and Local
 Trust (McPherson, GBP50,000), (5) Long term collaborative partnerships with NHS Lanarkshire
 to improve health and wellbeing across Lanarkshire (Buchan, GBP66,000), (6) Partnerships with
 CENSIS Scotland's Innovation Centre for sensing, imaging and Internet of Things technologies,
 and the ‘Lenus Digital Health Platform’ (Easton GBP106,000 and GBP57,000 respectively), (7)
 Key collaborations and knowledge transfer work with Celtic FC (Unnithan GBP169,000), and (8)
 Scottish Government funded work to support the health and wellbeing of people with Multiple
 Sclerosis (Sculthorpe GBP220,000). This groups’ agility and expertise means at the end of 2020,
 they were able to rapidly pivot to provide research support for COVID-19 and social isolation,
 including interventions to support physical activity, and long-COVID-19 using smartphone apps
 funded by the Scottish Government (GBP124,000, and GBP239,000 Sculthorpe), assessing the
 efficacy and ergonomics of a new ‘Face gator’ face covering design with industry partners (Easton,
 GBP30K), and performing COVID-19 testing for elite Scottish Premier League athletes on behalf
 of the Scottish Football Association and CignPost Health (Easton GBP16,000).

 2.5 Research and Impact Rewards
 In partnership with the wider Division of Sport, ICEHS operates a system of time allocation related
 to research experience and expectations, with a sliding scale of teaching allocation for those with
 the highest research loads. This ensures a consistent loading across lecturers, senior lecturers
 and Professors. In addition, in the current REF cycle, staff loading includes a 10% time allocation
 to pursue developmental research. ICEHS also benefits from strategic investments from the
 School to support the development of early and mid-career researchers with the potential to
 become world-leaders. This has included approx. GBP20,000 for accelerometers (Dr Buchan) and
 GBP18,000 for specialist dual-head musculoskeletal imaging equipment (Dr Ugbolue).

 To support the recruitment and promotion strategy outlined above, the staff within ICEHS have
 also enjoyed significant support from the School in terms of supporting CPD (GBP50,000 since
 2014) This has included providing staff with the opportunity to attend national and international
 conferences. Importantly it has also contributed to the upskilling of long-term staff. This has
 included nine staff registering for part-time PhDs or Doctor of Professional Studies (Prof. Doc),
 two of which (McEwan / Graham) have already completed.

 2.6 Research Students
 PGR students’ development represents an area of substantial advancement and since 2014 the
 post-graduate landscape in both ICEHS and CCSE has expanded radically. Students are active
 members of both research groups and are funded from a range of sources (internally, charity,
 sport, as well as local and national Government). Consequently, the current post-graduate
 environment of ICEHS and CCSE is a thriving community of researchers comprising a substantial
 group of UK and EU students. Moreover, since 2014 ICEHS has graduated 30 PhD students
 and CCSE 9 (21 submitted for REF4a).

                2013-14 2014-15        2015-16     2016-17     2017-18     2018-19     2019/20
  ICEHS         4       2              7           1           3           2           2
  CCSE                                 1           1           2           5

 The UWS Academy and Doctoral College support students using the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework and training to support future career development. Training includes
 compulsory and optional training modules covering: (i) knowledge and intellectual abilities, (ii)

Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 personal effectiveness, (iii) research governance and organisation, and (iv) engagement, influence
 and impact. In addition, the Career and Employability team support students’ career aspirations
 with advice on writing, getting published, academic networking and job hunting, academic and
 research leadership, presentation skills and poster/ presentation workshops, and interview
 preparation. During the period, the PGR students were encouraged to take part in the Speakers
 Society and later in the annual Vitae Three Minute Thesis competition, challenging doctoral
 candidates to present a compelling spoken presentation on their research topic and its significance
 in just three minutes. In addition, the Doctoral College supports a yearly 3-day festival of research
 and offers the opportunity to undertake the Post Graduate Certificate in Learning and Teaching in
 Higher Education. Both ICEHS and CCSE have postgraduate coordinators who liaise directly with
 students, Faculty, and the Doctoral College to oversee student progression. Both ICEHS and
 CCSE have seminar series planned, designed and delivered by the doctoral students. In
 recognition of this, the University received the HR Excellence in Research Award in June 2016
 and UWS has recently completed a 4-year progress review including action based on the seven
 principles of the ‘Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers’.

 2.7 Equality and Diversity
 Both research institutes are committed to the University’s goals regarding Equality and Diversity.
 ICEHS contributed to the development and submission of the UWS Athena Swan Bronze award
 in 2017 (Easton). In the current REF period ICEHS (along with the School) has appointed an EDI
 coordinator to oversee EDI issues including gender, ethnic minority, and LGBTQ issues, both
 within the Institute as well as broader School level issues. Together both ICEHS and CCSE have
 supported staff through the prestigious Aurora Programme to train women for leadership in
 Higher Education. We have also supported 8 ECRs through the Universities ‘Grant Accelerator’
 programme (which helps ECRs develop and submit their first funding application). Staff returning
 from maternity leave have been supported via the University’s 'returners' scheme, which offers
 support and up to GBP10,000 to help restart a new research project after an extended family
 related leave. More broadly the proportion of females returned has increased from 10% in REF
 2014 to 36% in REF 2020. Across the two institutes, appointment and development procedures
 are robust, with 7 of 13 appointments in this period being females, as were half our post-doctoral
 researchers and successful PhD students. Staff in both groups are provided with EDI training and
 unconscious bias training.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Income and Funding Strategy
 Research income has grown substantially since REF2014, where for UOA26 research income
 was GBP90,000 (from 12 successful applications from 29 submissions). In this cycle ICEHS and
 CCSE have a combined research income of GBP1,172,108 including substantial funding from
 central governmental agencies, charities, and European bodies. In addition to this, the groups also
 aggressively sought internal support including winning competitive internal bids of over
 GBP600,000 including support for ECRs, studentships and equipment. To support this increase
 ICEHS and CCSE have a member of the central research office who acts as a single point of
 contact for all staff, providing training, advice and support in all aspects related to submission,
 costings, and approvals. In addition, all members of staff have an internal reviewer to assess
 applications before submission, and to act as a ‘critical friend’ in identifying areas of strength and
 areas for improvement. These approaches have meant that for both institutes this REF cycle has
 seen a substantial increase in the amount of research activity supported via external funding when
 compared with REF 2014.

 Following 2014, the ICEHS undertook a strategy to increase the number of funding bids with the
 broader aim of increasing the number of successful applications. This strategic objective resulted
 in a 3-fold increase in the number of applications, generated by twice as many staff as in 2014. In
 terms of revenue from all sources (i.e., research, consultancy, and CPD), ICEHS has grown
 income to over GBP979,000 and of this, research income comprises GBP555,000, a 6-fold
 increase, reflecting the maturing research culture as well as the more strategic approach to
 research and associated funding applications. Research has included funding from Charities,

Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 industry, consultancy and Government research. Together this has driven a 6-fold increase in
 research income, and 10-fold increase in total income including funding from industry (Censis
 GBP106,000, Lenus Health GBP57,000), from the NHS (NHS Lanarkshire GBP66,000), charity
 funding (Hannah Foundation GBP80,000), as well as from elite sport (Celtic FC GBP169.000),
 and from Government (Chief Scientific Office for Scotland GBP220,000 still being drawn).

 Similarly, CCSE has been extremely proactive in seeking funding for research and wider activities
 since its inception. CCSE has attracted total income (including research, consultancy, and CPD)
 of over GBP1,700,000. As a result, CCSE has realised GBP686,540 in research funding since
 2014 not including large, multi-year grants currently on hold due to COVID-19 and which continue
 to be drawn down. This includes European funded projects such as FESTSPACE, a Humanities
 in the European Research Area (HERA)-funded project (value GBP541,000) with partners in
 London, Dublin, Barcelona, and Gothenburg, and the EventRights mobilities project, an EU
 Marie Skłodowska-Curie Research and Innovation Staff Exchange (RISE) initiative (value
 GBP677,000) exploring the extent to which major sport events can be improved to ensure a
 progressive, rights-focused agenda. Other work includes a collaborative research project on the
 impact of major parasport events on the lives of disabled people in Canada and Scotland
 (GBP220,000) funded by the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council and Sport
 Canada, research into cultural diplomacy funding from the British Council (GBP100,000), work
 investigating the social value of community events (GBP50,000), and work assessing the role of
 leisure and tourism in heritage sites (GBP30,000).

 3.2 Organisational Investment
 As with research and income, this REF cycle has seen a sea change in the infrastructure and
 equipment following large-scale central investment. In 2018 UWS moved from its Hamilton
 Campus to a purpose-built state of the art campus in Lanarkshire. The new build cost over
 GBP110,000,000, and included upgrading our research capacity via a GBP2,300,000
 investment. This new spend has included over GBP240,000 on a new cardiovascular imaging
 suite including state-of-the art cardiac and vascular ultrasound, GBP285,000 extreme
 environments lab, including one of the largest purpose-built environmental chambers in
 Scotland, GBP374,000 for a bespoke athlete consultancy and biochemistry lab including
 facilities for exercise testing, and a GBP586,000 for a new rehabilitation suite, three bed
 treatment suite. Also, GBP747,000 biomechanics suite and GBP160,000 for dedicated space
 for research students on our Paisley campus.

 3.3 Support Staffing and Infrastructure
 The research environment is supported through two full-time technicians. Their remit includes
 support for research and teaching. In terms of research, this includes supporting research
 undertaken across all specialist areas (extreme environments, cardiovascular, rehabilitation,
 biomechanics, and exercise testing and biochemistry). Technical staff also support research via a
 variety of roles including equipment maintenance, calibration, and servicing, equipment
 preparation for data collection and storage, management of the biochemistry equipment and -80oC
 freezer. Both technicians are also research trained, both having graduated in 2020 with PhDs from
 ICEHS post-graduate studentships.

 3.4 Specialist Research Infrastructure for Impact
 In addition to the multi-million-pound lab refurbishment noted above, ICEHS has also strategically
 developed its research infrastructure to maximise the potential for world-leading research and
 impact. In the current REF period investment in specialist equipment has exceeded
 GBP500,000. Consequently, staff have access to a variety of specialist or state-of-the-art research
 equipment, such as a Cardiovascular Imaging Lab, including a brand new cardiac and vascular
 ultrasound and an off-line cardiac and vascular analysis software, specialist ultrasound cycle
 ergometer, functional electric stimulation ergometer for individuals with limited mobility; a
 Consultancy Lab with multiple metabolic carts including a Vyntus Jaeger, Medgraphics, and
 Metalyzer 3B, HP Cosmos Pulsar with overhead harness, and multiple cycle, ski, and rowing
 ergometers. This lab includes biochemistry facilities for assessment of blood lipids, C-reactive
 protein, and cardiac troponin and multiple Biosen-3C blood glucose and lactate analysers, nitrate

Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and nitrite assays, and microplate reader. The Rehabilitation Suite includes treatment space with
 3 private treatment areas with plinths, theraband and rehabilitation weights, therapeutic
 ultrasound, vibration plates, and isokinetic dynamometer. The biomechanics Lab has advanced
 muscle function assessment including an isokinetic dynamometer and dual head musculoskeletal
 ultrasound imaging system, a Vicon 10 camera Motion Analysis System with the Vicon Nexus
 software with an integrated 12 channel Delsys Trigno Avanti Platform and four Kistler Force
 plates.

 3.5 Cross-HEI Infrastructure Collaboration
 ICEHS have undertaken a variety of Cross-HEI collaborations in order to maximise the quality,
 and impact of the resulting outputs. Prof Easton has hosted Dr Bammann from University of
 Bremen to use UWS expertise and infrastructure to assess physical activity in older adults, and
 Dr Porcelli from University of Pavia to utilise our ultrasound expertise, and our environmental
 chamber to assess changes in cerebral blood flow during hypoxia. ICEHS staff are also part of a
 large study assessing cardiac, cardiovascular, and cerebrovascular health and cognitive function
 in post-menopausal women. This includes use of specialist imaging equipment from UWS and
 York St John, beat-by-beat blood pressure assessment using equipment provided by Federation
 University, Australia, with all testing taking place using facilities at University of Wales Trinity
 St David. Work examining the morphology of lower back musculature in chronic lower-back pain
 also included MRI imaging undertaken by the University of Edinburgh. Prof. MacPherson was a
 visiting Professor at the Institute of Cultural Diplomacy in Berlin, with whom a Masters and PhD
 programme was also jointly developed.

 3.6 In-kind Benefits
 Both institutes also benefit from less formal agreements. ICEHS has had a long-standing
 collaboration with colleagues from Ningbo University in China. This has included summer
 internships for visiting Chinese students from Ningbo University to learn skills in our biomechanics
 laboratory. Staff from ICEHS (Dr Ugbolue, Prof Sculthorpe) and Ningbo (Dr JaDong) currently co-
 supervise a PhD student. ICEHS has also hosted an Erasmus Postgraduate Partnership with the
 University of Jean Monnet, Saint-Etienne, including hosting an internship and MSc in Health
 Engineering. Post-Graduate students from ICEHS have also visited Dr Porcelli's lab in Italy for
 skills development. CCSE also have a partnership with the Western University, Canada, on our
 Parasport research grant. Western pay for research assistants that give time to CCSE staff on the
 project and pay for staff travel, conference fees and publishing fees.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
 Staff at ICEHS and CCSE have an international research profile, having published work with
 networks in Europe (covering 11 different countries), North America (including 15 different
 states across the US and Canada), South America, India, Africa, Australia and New Zealand,
 Russia, China, and Hong Kong. Collaborations on funded research projects have also been
 extensive including Canada, Columbia, Germany, Africa, Spain, Ireland, Japan, and the US.
 These top-level metrics are the result of proactively seeking and nurturing relationships with
 research leading groups.

 As part of their funded international work (noted above) Profs MacPherson and MacGillivray lead
 collaboration with groups across Europe, Asia, and North and South America. Prof. Easton is part
 of an international group examining the role of dietary nitrate on health and performance, including
 outputs with collaborators in Italy (Dr Porcelli at the Italian National Research Council) and the
 USA (Prof. Allan at the University of Virginia). Prof. Sculthorpe and Dr Hayes have published
 extensively on models of healthy ageing with Prof. Grace (Federation University, Australia) and
 Dr Knox (California Lutherian University, USA). Prof. Sculthorpe and Dr Hayes have also
 collaborated on funded mobile health technology research with Dr Mair (Future Health
 Technologies, Singapore). Prof. Baker and Dr Ugbolue have a long-standing collaboration with
 Ningbo University in China in which Prof. Baker was a visiting Professor at Ningbo, and both Prof
 Baker and Dr Ugbolue have published extensively with Prof Yaodong regarding the biomechanics

Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of Gait. Prof. Unnithan has national and international links in professional sport with collaborations
 including FC Barcelona and Celtic FC. Dr Dello Iacono is part of a strength and conditioning
 research group with Dr Halperin (Tel Aviv University, Israel).

 In addition to these international links, ICEHS and CCSE are also rooted in their communities at
 regional and national levels. Prof. Davison and Prof. McPherson are both members of the
 Observatory for Sport Scotland (OSS), and have collaborated with the OSS on previous and
 current projects. Dr Forrest and Prof. Easton have published seminal work regarding women’s
 health in professional sport, in collaboration with Scottish Rugby influencing both policy and
 practice within that context. Dr Buchan collaborates with NHS Lanarkshire who have funded
 multiple projects, including 3 PhD studentships, all of which aim to improve the health and well-
 being of children in that area. Dr Cowan has collaborated with Jog Scotland and Street Soccer
 Scotland in his research into the social benefits of community sport, and sport leadership. Dr
 McEwan has collaborated with BASES, in using her research on the development process of sport
 psychologists to help develop the new BASES pathway for Applied Sport and Exercise
 Psychology. Drs Macrae and Carlin have worked on a funded project with Walking Football to
 assess how it might be adapted for people living with Dementia.

 4.2 Engagement with Users, Beneficiaries and Communities
 ICEHS has provided a substantial amount of sport science support and consultancy to the
 communities in which it serves. This has included using the new environmental chamber to provide
 heat acclimation prior to competition for elite athletes (e.g., Callum Hawkins prior to the Doha
 Athletics World Championships, Scottish National women's football team and the Scottish
 Men’s Rugby team for various competitions, and former IBO Welterweight champion Hannah
 Rankin). We have also provided performance support for Scottish elite and junior elite runners, as
 well as non-elite performance support, such as for Corrine Hutton, who following altitude training
 became the first female quadruple amputee to summit Kilimanjaro. Moreover, CCSE and
 ICEHS have supported and collaborated with numerous community groups including, MS
 Scotland, ReviveMS, Street Soccer Scotland, Jog Scotland, England Athletics, Walking
 Football, and Age Scotland.

 CCSE staff have utilised their expertise in cultural regeneration to design an evaluation framework
 for the Council to assess its investment in culture. UKRI funded work allowed the CCSE staff to
 collaborate with close associates from Renfrewshire Council and the STAR Project charity and to
 reach out to community members to discover their views on the role that art and culture played in
 their lives. The outputs from this project included a short film of Paisley Art and Soul, a ‘zine
 recording community members’ creativity, and an evidence review exploring the role of arts and
 culture in tackling poverty. These outputs are being used by Renfrewshire Council to inform its
 strategic priorities and evidences the CCSEs engagement with users, beneficiaries and
 communities.

 4.3 Contribution to Economy and Society
 The community and economic benefits described here are in addition to those described in this
 submission’s impact case studies which detail: substantial impacts in athlete health, including
 cardiac assessment of adult, and adolescent elite athletes, supporting policy change in Women's
 Rugby, Informing the development of Sport Psychologist training, and research that has led
 directly to policy changes at national and international level supported by the OECD
 (MacPherson, McGillivray, and Turner), and work to improve physical activity in primary schools
 in collaboration with NHS Lanarkshire (Buchan, Arthur).

 The Exercise Nutrition and Environmental Research Group of ICEHS have worked with industry
 to develop next-generation software for notation analysis (Dello Iacono), to support coaches
 by providing better methods of skill development with athletes (Bobrowniki), improving our
 understanding of training and coaching elite youth soccer players (Unnithan), supported better
 assessment and development of football match officials (Arthur, Unnithan, Easton), and
 providing cutting edge work on the role of the oral microbiome in athlete performance and health
 (Easton).

Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The Exercise Across the Life-span group have provided some of the first work to assess sprint
 interval training in older adults, and the first meta-analytic assessment of the effect of ageing on
 cardiac and vascular function (Easton, Grace, Hayes and Sculthorpe). This group also has an
 emerging digital health strand with research projects including the application of 'big data'
 techniques to physical activity assessment, and to provide more rapid assessment of
 echocardiographic analyses (Sculthorpe), the development of novel digital health platforms
 (Easton), developing symptom tracking mobile technologies to link symptom and daily activities
 in Multiple Sclerosis (Sculthorpe).

 The sport and society group have worked extensively with external groups providing evidence-
 based practice and support that helps the communities which we serve while also having broader
 national and international applications. In this regard staff have worked extensively with
 underprivileged groups. Work with Street Soccer Scotland (Cowan) has informed our
 understanding of the role of Sport in the psychological and physiological health of children from
 deprived backgrounds. Staff (Macrae) have also undertaken ground-breaking work with RS
 MacDonald Trust to evaluate the role of walking football for people with dementia, providing a
 set of best practices guide future developments. Work with Jog-Scotland and England Athletics
 (Cowan) is informing the development of, and participation in, social jogging groups via the
 development of 'jog-leaders'.

 CCSE staff have assessed cross-cultural comparisons of leisure and on the morality of leisure in
 the non-western societies including the diasporic communities with a specific focus on leisure-
 tourism and sustainability in Nepal (Kaylan), and on community engagement and the use of
 leisure time to community projects that aim to ameliorate the environmental impact of tourism
 without harming local economies (Carnicelli). Staff have also contributed to the discourse around
 lifestyle sports and public policy (Turner).

 4.4 Discipline and Interdisciplinarity support
 Staff have provided important service to their respective disciplines. McPherson is a member of
 the REF sub-panel for 2021 and an interdisciplinary advisor to the panel. Staff in ICEHS and CCSE
 collectively serve as editors to 6 journals and have completed over 280 peer reviews including
 journal articles, books, and grant applications including for BHF, AHRC, ESRC, and UKRI.
 McPherson has completed a term as an elected College panel member for AHRC. Both groups
 have guest edited special editions including in Frontiers in Physiology (Dr Hayes) and Annals of
 Leisure Research (McGillivray, MacPherson and Carnicelli). McPherson is also a member of the
 British Soft Power Group and has acted as an expert advisor to the FCDO.

 Staff have also delivered approximately 80 presentations including keynotes at national and
 international conferences and have performed external examiner duties for 23 PhD and other post-
 graduate research awards and have hosted several research students from overseas as part of
 collaborative arrangements for skills development. In 2014, McPherson, McGillivray, Carnicelli
 and Flinn hosted the 2014 Leisure Studies Association conference with over 100 attendees,
 and filmed for STV news, with Prof McPherson giving an interview on Sport event legacy. The
 event focused on themes now aligned with the CCSE – major sport events (the event coincided
 with the Glasgow 2014 Commonwealth Games), digital leisure cultures and cultural
 regeneration and in 2018 ICEHS won the rights to host the 2021 ECSS conference (postponed to
 2024 due to COVID-19).

 4.5 Wider Influence and Contributions
 CCSE continues to be proactive in contributing to academic and societal debates and discussions.
 In May 2020 CCSE hosted a virtual symposium, Festivals, Events and COVID-19: Navigating a
 Global Pandemic, utilising simultaneous livestream broadcast across Twitter, Facebook,
 LinkedIn and YouTube to reach the target audience. There were 407 sign ups to the Eventbrite
 pre-broadcast: up to 240 simultaneous viewers on the stream at any one time, with a total of
 1171 unique stream views overall on the day. Post conference, the event reached more than
 140,000 people and 63,730 people watched the recorded conference on the School Facebook

Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 page. The Centre is also active on web and social media platforms to share its work and foster
 new relationships with potential partners and audiences. For example, CCSE is present on Twitter
 (@CCSE_UWS, currently 624 followers) a platform through which we are able to reach out to our
 audience, advertising our events and activities and promoting our weekly blog which features
 posts related to a wide range of culture, arts and policy practitioners who are engaged with CCSE
 and the CCSE network. The success of our virtual symposium – Festivals, Events and COVID-19
 – led to the launch of a series of online discussions titled #CCSEConversations in 2020 and 2021;
 these conversations provide a platform for continuing to discuss the ideas, themes, challenges
 and opportunities emerging from the topics debated. The conversations have ranged across a
 number of topics and themes including tourism, festivals, cultural diplomacy and major sport
 events. Finally, staff in CCSE are also committed to making their research outputs and outcomes
 available to the widest possible audiences. We ensure all our knowledge exchange reports are
 available open access, hosted on the ISSUU platform and embedded on the CCSE website.




Page 14
