Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Bournemouth University

 Unit of Assessment: 17 – Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


1.1 Unit context and structure

Bournemouth University Business School (BUBS) is a globally accredited business school that
inspires people and organisations to grow in a responsible and empathetic way through the fusion
of innovative education, research, and practice (https://www.bournemouth.ac.uk/why-bu/fusion-bu).

Our research frames the culture of the School, the relationship to pedagogic practice, the networks
and connections we make. We ensure that our research makes a difference and that our work
collectively contributes towards the BUBS mission.

Since 2014, the unit’s research has been a driver of change, helping to address important societal
issues such as providing advice to governments and businesses on Brexit and promoting
responsible business growth (examples are specified in the ‘Centres’ section below). Our
contribution to and positive impact on business and society was recognised in 2018 with
accreditation by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB).

A central tenet of our research strategy is growing research independence amongst all our staff
(engagement in external research funding and enhanced publication profiles) and building
research capacity in areas of strategic importance. At a university level BU’s strategic investment
area (SIAs) focuses our strategy, and these link to United Nations Sustainable Goals (UNSDGs) as
discussed below. Alignment with UNSDGs is important to BUB’s mission (see 1.2.2) which has a
focus on responsibility and sustainability. Our progress is evident through improvements in outputs,
the development of Research Centres, increased research funding, and other engagement
detailed later in this document.

Globalisation runs throughout the activities in the unit, driven by the strategy since REF 2014, and
is evident in our research structure through the appointment of an Associate Dean for Global
Engagement in 2015, who has facilitated co-ordination and implementation of all global partnership
dimensions (as evidenced in section 4.3.9).

This has led to a series of events such as the Global Festivals of Learning (GFOL) where BU
academics facilitate partnership building events (See 4.3.9), successful Research Innovation Staff
Exchange (Rise), European programmes (Bray), a British Council Newton Institutional Links
Project with the Federal University of Santa Catarina, Brazil, and links through our international
staff base (see 2.1). All of these have led to demonstrable outputs such as journal papers (e.g.
Bray, Chapleo).

Strategic growth in this unit since the last REF is also apparent through a significant increase in the
number of people submitted since 2014, from 23 returned then to 65 in this REF submission - an
increase of over 200 per cent. This demonstrates the increased engagement in research across
the unit and the unit’s growing research capacity.

The unit is largely composed of staff from three academic Departments: People and Organisations;
Accounting, Finance and Economics; and Marketing, Strategy and Innovation
(https://www.bournemouth.ac.uk/about/our-faculties/bournemouth-university-business-school).
Research leadership in the Business School is driven by the Deputy Dean for Research, who is
supported in this task by Heads of Department, department-based Strategic Research leads,
Research Environment leads, PGR leads, and UoA leads. Together they form the team


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
responsible for the setting of our research direction and the development and implementation of
strategy.

Within each Department are focused, Professorial-led research Themes that bring together
disciplinary-based teams in a collaborative, inclusive environment. Themes serve as research
clusters, formed by academics of all ranks and led by the professoriate (i.e. Baines, Chapleo, Filis,
Hartwell, Hassan, Hillingdon, Hölscher, Khorana, Lloyd, Memery, Miles, Nordberg, Parrilli, Patton,
Piesse, Robson, Roushan, Webster). Each Theme specialises in a specific area and is expected to
generate research outputs and income, while also building networks that will allow it to evolve into
a Research Centre (for example, the Centre for Trade, Development and Transition Economics
developed into a Centre via this route in 2019). These Themes are a recent development and aim
to increase collaboration, establish a track record for informed and impactful research and provide
less experienced staff with mentoring and guidance. Focusing on excellence, quality and
development, this infrastructure provides an important balance between short-term achievements
(e.g. increasing the number of staff that are publishing and the quality of publications from those
already published), medium-term goals (higher quality bidding, increased research income and
stronger external networks), and longer-term strategizing (that seeks to enhance the
interdisciplinary research culture, invest significantly in Early Career Researchers (ECRs) and
evolve established research networks).

Colleagues in the unit are members of the three Research Centres, each of which are led by a
member of the Professoriate:
    • The Centre for Trade, Development and Transition Economics (TDTE)
    • The Centre for Sustainable and Socially Responsible Consumption (CSSRC)
    • The Disaster Management Centre (DMC)

The diagram below summarises the BUBS research structure.




Figure 1. BUBS research structure. All Departments are shown for completeness, although only
the three within the dotted line form part of this unit.


Research Centres

As part of delivering BU2025, the unit’s research is driven by the Research Centres, with an
emphasis on developing critical mass and building research capacity around our institutional
Strategic Investment Areas (SIAs) (See REF5a) which in turn are informed by the UNSDGs. For

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
example, the Centre for Trade, Development and Transition Economics (led by Khorana and
Hölscher) aligns to UNSDG 8 (Decent Work & Economic Growth), 9 (Industry and Innovation) and
10 (Reduced Inequalities), and thereby to the Sustainability SIA through economic and social
sustainability. Similarly, the Disaster Management Centre (led by Miles) links with many of the
goals, including goal 2 (Zero Hunger), 3 (Good Health & Wellbeing) and 6 (Clean Water and
Sanitation).

Our Research Centres bring together individuals from across the university to form collaborative
and interdisciplinary groupings which, through the development and delivery of world-leading
research, will strengthen and underpin the delivery of our strategy and our environment. As such,
our research culture will be increasingly team-focused and interdisciplinary, international in its
orientation, and demonstrate a commitment to solutions to local and global, social, economic and
cultural challenges. Staff choose their own membership of Centres, and the majority of research
active staff are aligned with at least one.

To facilitate growth and critical mass in our Centres, we ensure all staff have a research mentor
with a particular emphasis on particularly emphasise mentoring and development of PGRs and
ECRs. This has been supplemented by targeted recruitment to strengthen the Centres. An
example of this is the appointment of ECRs in the Disaster Management Centre.

Disaster Management Centre (DMC) is led academically by Miles and Bang working closely with
Baker, Beal and Reddin.

The DMC is an internationally acclaimed Centre which fuses research informed professional
practice, education and simulation. Its significant global impact in the disaster management field is
underpinned by a strong academic basis. The Centre became a member of the prestigious Global
Alliance of Disaster Risk Institutes (GADRI) in 2016 and has a successful portfolio of external
training and professional development funding amounting to over £2.2 million (August 2015 -
December 2019).

Established in 2001, DMC has undergone a progressive and phased expansion of its activities; the
Centre today represents (2020) a postgraduate Centre of research, education, and professional
practice. Key milestones in this reporting period include the appointment of the first Professor of
Disaster Management (2015) and the first DMC Research Fellow in 2016. The centre invested in
one of only six Academic Targeted Research Scheme staff across the university (Reddin) with the
aim of building future research leadership and underpinning capacity in this topical area.

The DMC’s work focuses around three major areas of research:
   • African disaster management – This is a key research area for DMC and recent research
      was supported by a QR Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) grant totalling
      £110,000. There are two major projects: AFRIGATE and AFRICAB. The team worked with
      agencies in Ghana, Nigeria and Cameroon and developed the global diagnostic tool ‘Single
      Points of Failure’ (SPOF). They also worked with the Sierra Leone Government to build a
      national platform for disaster management and shape new disaster management policies
      and laws. Recently, the DMC is supporting a number of countries in their response to the
      global coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic and specifically, BUDMC are working with the
      government in Sierra Leone on a Covid-19 response strategy.
   • Caribbean disaster management – Funded to the total of £368,000 by sources such as
      the UK Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office, Ministry of Defence and World
      Bank, the team led projects working with agencies in the Caribbean assessing disaster
      preparedness and response capacity. In 2017, they developed SPOF diagnostics in the
      Caribbean alongside the Department of Disaster Management in the British Virgin Islands.
   • Oman disaster management – The team contributed to the Oman National Resilience
      Programme (Phase 1), funded by The Royal Office of Oman (£1.7M). The team worked
      with agencies and executive bodies such as the National Committee for Civil Defence
      (NCCD) and the senior Under Secretaries to the Minister of Health to develop long-term
      disaster management capacity and strategy in Oman.

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
DMC research has informed the Centre’s pedagogic focus. The Centre has 11 registered PhD
candidates and achieved their first two PhD completions in 2019.

Centre for Trade, Development and Transition Economics (TDTE) is led by Hölscher and
Khorana, working closely with Hartwell, Patton and Sahandi.

TDTE has grown from a research cluster, becoming an established Centre in 2019. TDTE is
focused around the established international reputation of its two directors (Hölscher and
Khorana), with the former specialising in transitional economies and the latter in trade
economics. This has allowed the Centre to focus on specific strands of research with high impact
in relation to policy making and firm behaviour. Hölscher and Khorana are supported by a strong
group of affiliates (such as Djalilov, Orlic and Webster) who have international research
recognition.

The Centre established itself as a hub of excellence for the study of trade and financial flows, the
economic impact of globalisation and economic transition, the influence of neoliberalism and the
political, financial and legal mechanisms involved in trade agreements, and the effect of foreign
direct investment (FDI) on state infrastructure development in the context of corporate state
capture.

The critical mass of four professors with expertise in trade and transitional economics alongside
significant practitioner experience both nationally and internationally at a senior level, is driving
impact (including a submitted Impact Case based on Khorana’s work):

   1. Implications for international trade post Brexit; with particular emphasis on the
      Commonwealth, emerging economies, and the United States of America, plus informing
      policy in the Welsh Assembly and Scottish Parliament (Khorana).
   2. Importance of institutional development within the transitional economies of Eastern Europe
      (Hartwell).
   3. Asymmetry in infrastructure spending because of political and corporate state capture
      (Hölscher).
   4. Market failure in developed / transitional economies in the availability of finance for SMEs;
      influencing Eastern European policy (Hölscher).
   5. A role on DFID Expert Advisory Group to advise on Brexit related trade policy issues
      (Khorana).

The group has a proven ability to achieve policy impact in transitional economies, including
publication in the prestigious ‘IZA World of Labor’ series (Hölscher). This is the leading
international network in labour economics, comprising more than 1,600 scholars and read by
practitioners and policy makers worldwide.

Centre for Sustainable and Socially Responsible Consumption (CSSRC) is a new
interdisciplinary Centre led by Memery and Dickinson, working closely with academics from BUBS
and the Faculty of Science and Technology. The Centre promotes the understanding of
sustainable consumption and socially responsible consumption through the delivery of
internationally renowned research. Expertise in this area is dispersed across the institution. The
CSSRC provides a hub bringing researchers together to address topics of global relevance;
providing a stronger interdisciplinary focus that can utilise existing networks, develop collaborations
and attract research funding (such as Dickinson’s EPSRC grant, £322K).
The importance of sustainable and socially responsible consumption is recognised by global
institutions, as evidenced through the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Building on
expertise in a number of areas within Bournemouth University, the CSSRC is helping to address
the UNSDGs particularly in the areas of Zero Hunger (No.2), Good Health and Well-being (No.3),
Decent Work and Economic Growth (No.8), Reduced Inequality (No.10), Responsible
Consumption and Production (No.12), and Climate Action (No.13). Furthermore, sustainable and
socially responsible consumption aligns with Bournemouth University’s stated research ambition,


                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
as set out in BU2025, to be “a catalyst for sustainable social, environmental and economic growth
and development” and to “lead thinking on sustainability and support the development of the
region” (https://www.bournemouth.ac.uk/about/bu2025-vision-values-strategic-plan/bu2025-
strategic-plan).


Embedding impact is thus crucial. Members are developing impact in the following areas:
  • Trust in financial services (Robson).
  • Food waste loss aversion: consumer-led strategies for combating overstocking (Memery).
  • Social media: improving sustainability (Bolat).
  • Developing firm capabilities via mobile technology (Bray).
  • Food stockpiling behaviour during the Covid-19 pandemic (Dickinson).
  • Economic well-being and social isolation (Robson).
  • Novel food consumption for sustainable diets (Memery).
  • Trust in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic (Robson).

In summary, these Centres help define the unit and provide an important point of distinction for the
unit, through highly visible and internationally oriented Centres of excellence. BUBS has, and will
continue to, strategically invest in these Centres to build critical mass and capacity and help
position BUBS as a driver of change, through addressing important societal issues. BUBS
investment in capacity building is clearly evident through, for example, the Disaster Management
Centre (DMC) where a Professor of Disaster Management (Miles) and two Senior Lecturers
(Reddin, Baker- Beal) have been recruited in this REF period (one via BU’s Academic Targeted
Research Scheme). The other two Centres within the unit are newer but similar capacity building
will be pursued.

1.2 Research and impact strategy

1.2.1 Review of REF 2014 strategic research and impact objectives

The unit’s ongoing research strategy is to focus on the continued development of applied and
policy-oriented research that fosters knowledge exchange and provides clearly identifiable impact.
Its focus is to continue to support PGRs and ECRs, a high proportion of which have submitted to
this REF, and to build a research culture and context that promotes the following: revenue
generation through grant applications, the dissemination of research through publications and
conferences, and the delivery of impact by aligning individuals and their work with the activities of
external stakeholders.

The key aims in our REF 2014 submission have been achieved or exceeded. We respond to these
in the following section, whilst also introducing new strategic objectives that have driven our
activities during this REF period.

SO1. To develop a sustainable academic reputation.

This objective concerns developing a sustainable academic structure and culture. An emphasis
upon excellence is key to our research culture, where staff excel in their strengths and are
encouraged to be collaborative, team-focused and interdisciplinary, to address areas of opportunity
in bidding and research innovation. In this environment, research is a self-managed activity with
the Professoriate assuming leadership responsibility in the development and management of
teams. To facilitate the work of teams and support the mission of research excellence, a high-
quality PGR cohort and experience is cultivated, which reinforces a more aligned research agenda
that is proactive in grant bidding and capture, with an enlarged pool of external collaborators.
Teams, developed in this way, will support collaboration and enhance collegiality, providing the
energy and enthusiasm to drive our research agenda forward. As such, an emphasis has been
placed upon the mentoring of PGRs and ECRs to grow research teams with the support of senior
research staff, enhancing the reputation of the disciplines, the group and the individual researchers


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
within its defined research community. The strategy of nurturing Research Themes which may
develop into Research Centres has been key to providing the infrastructure to drive this objective.

We have grown research capacity by 200% in the number of research active staff, maturing from a
smaller cluster approach in 2014 to a unit with three vibrant and sustainable Research Centres
(https://www.bournemouth.ac.uk/research/centres-institutes?f[]=field_faculties:2431).

Sitting underneath these Centres are our department-based research Themes. These provide a
focus to our research, develop collegiality, and provide for inclusive and supportive spaces. In line
with current thinking, the development of planned senior staff appointments alongside the
developments in research strategy discussed above, we will continue to expand the number of
Research Centres as our environment further matures.

Whilst the research strategy aims to promote a sustainable academic structure of excellence within
Themes and Centres, individual strengths and expertise have also been developed within these in
order to support cross-disciplinary activity, correlating with our 2014 objective to utilise expertise to
increase capacity and outputs.

SO2. To enhance research networks.

In 2014, we aimed to pursue “initiatives to facilitate the development of key areas of expertise
within the Business School that promote excellence and distinctiveness, which can be shared
across Schools within the university and expedite research links with researchers at other
Universities in the UK and overseas” (BU2018 strategy).

This has been achieved through the reinvigorated research infrastructure discussed above. The
Centres are crucial to facilitating the development of key areas of expertise that promote
excellence and distinctiveness, which can be shared across the Business School, expedite
research links with external researchers at other institutions, and enable more targeted interaction
with other relevant organisations. However, networks are also supported through our research
Themes where the importance of connections and networks is recognised by supporting staff at all
levels e.g. by presenting at conferences and attending networking events. To leverage
international networks, we have used funds to bring international academics to the Business
School and have hosted over 30 research seminars (since late 2018) that have included speakers
from universities such as Oxford, Bath, Exeter, Rouen, and Saskatchewan; these are well attended
by staff in the unit. BUBS has delivered global networking events such as GFOL (see section
4.3.9).

The global nature of our research networks is further evidenced through 49.3 per cent of our
research outputs resulting from international collaboration (see section 4.3.3). An example of
enhanced networks can be found in the formation of the TDTE Centre where six of the fifteen
Centre members are external to BU, namely Hisarciklilar (Coventry), Pugh (Staffordshire), Hashi
(Staffordshire), Radicic (Lincoln), Hartwell (ZHAW) and Bartlett (LSE).

SO3. To promote business engagement.

The strategy aimed to embed links between research and enterprise to create, build and sustain
close working relationships with external stakeholders to facilitate research that can inform policy
and practice. This is central to BU’s Fusion strategy and that of BUBS.
Under BU2025, our Public Engagement with Research (PER) activity has moved from institution-
wide public engagement initiatives to a focus on two-way engagement throughout the research
lifecycle. In BUBS, our PER programme is centred around three objectives:
     • Research impact acceleration.
     • Capacity building of PER skills.
     • Culture change towards engaged research.

At BUBS level this is demonstrated through, for example:

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   BUBS staff pursuing capacity building opportunities via Café Scientifique and the public
       lecture series (e.g. Bolat, Hölscher).
   •   BUBS staff participating in an internal PER network to encourage collaboration, share
       knowledge and experiences and promote best practice.
   •   Staff in the unit attending training delivered by the National Coordinating Centre for Public
       Engagement (NCCPE) aimed to enhance skills in this area. This has led to an increased
       focus and activity around public engagement among those staff.

External engagement has been integral to the Business School’s approach, proactively building
and maintaining relationships to ensure its research informs and is informed by stakeholders.
Regional engagement is a key element to this approach and is achieved through a number of
means. Academic staff are encouraged to collaborate with external organisations at an executive
level: examples include, engagement with local industries/organisations, such as AFC
Bournemouth (Chapleo), JP Morgan (Taylor, Parrilli) and providing support to the regional
Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Khorana, Gilani, Parrilli), Liverpool Victoria (Chapleo), Dorset
Local Enterprise Partnership (Farquharson, Ayatakshi Endow) and the local councils of
Bournemouth, Christchurch and Poole (Roberts). More examples can be seen at
https://www.bournemouth.ac.uk/research/projects?f[]=field_faculties:2431.

As part of PER, the Business School organises a range of events and seminars to engage the
local community through which staff, external stakeholders and students can mix and disseminate
ideas and knowledge. Specific examples include: Bolat (BU’s Café Scientifique and ESRC Festival
of Social Science (FoSS)) and Sadd (ESRC FoSS) (https://www.bournemouth.ac.uk/research/get-
involved/esrc-festival-social-science-2019).

The university’s open public lectures aim to celebrate new professorial appointments and the depth
and breadth of research undertaken at the university. For the Business School, this has included
lectures on food price inflation (Lloyd), the implications of Brexit (Hölscher), and oil price volatility
(Filis). The Business School supports the university-wide Festival of Learning; an annual event
showcasing the university’s research/expertise to an audience of more than 5,000 people (general
public and businesses). In the last 18 months for example there have been 24 public engagement
activities delivered by BUBS staff including: ‘Digital me’ (Bolat), ‘Tax havens: A United Kingdom
and international perspective’ (Kirkpatrick), and ‘Lies and scandals: Whatever happened to trust’
(Robson, Memery, Bolat).

Our Centres also help to develop external engagement with businesses, government agencies and
charitable organisations; the Business School is a significant contributor to the planned activities of
the university and in particular the Festival of Enterprise. Notable examples of external
relationships within our Centres include: the UK Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office
(DMC), The Welsh Assembly, Scottish Parliament, Caribbean Bank (TDTE) and Defra, Crown
Estate, British Egg Industry Council and Waitrose (CSSRC).

The Fusion strategy also advocates a greater emphasis on research-led teaching so that staff are
the creators of knowledge with students and the wider environment rather than passive conduits of
knowledge. Student-staff publications are one such example and a number of staff have been
successful at this (e.g. Gilani, Bolat, Nordberg).

Expenditure to support research is targeted to maximise impact within the BUBS research strategy.
Funding is, in part, derived from Business School budgets (e.g., for staff development, including
conference attendance). This is supported by investments made centrally to support the
development of a strong and vibrant research environment in the unit.

This investment is targeted in ‘streams’ towards ECRs, mid-career researchers, collaborative
teams (including the Professoriate working with ECRs), income and impact activity, and aligned to
the university’s Researcher Development Framework. All investment requests must explicitly
demonstrate alignment to the UNSDGs and Business School research strategy. Recent research
projects pump-primed through internal investment include investigations into oil / food price

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
volatility (Hölscher) that align with UNSDGs 2 and 3; retaining global talent (Farquharson) aligning
with UNSDG 9; and trust repair (Robson) aligning with UNSDG 8. Funds have also been utilised
to improve the knowledge base via workshops with journal editors and grant holders, and awards
for international travel for networking and conferences.

1.2.2 Future research strategy

The unit’s future research strategy is driven by our institutional strategic plan BU2025 and remains
focused upon the development of a dynamic research environment that is underpinned by two core
values derived from Bournemouth University’s Fusion concept (see REF5a):
    • The recognition of a clear relationship between theory and practice in management and
       business research.
    • The importance of building a research narrative that provides clear evidence of impact
       within a range of contexts.

As BU’s strategic plan period evolves from BU2018 to BU2025, the research strategy for the unit
will continue to develop. A more strategic and focused approach to research funding, aligned to the
principles of transparency, equity, and inclusivity, will see the further development of our research
Themes to which staff (and students) will be closely aligned and recruited. This will see the
development of some Themes into Research Centres (as in 2019 TDTE and 2020 CSSRC) that
align with Business School strategy, BU2025 and the UNSDGs. These Centres will reflect and
build upon strengths in publication and research funding and will enhance the standing of the unit
both within the university and among external stakeholders.

For a Theme to become a Centre it must be approved by the School Research and Professional
Practice Committee (RPPC) and then at the institutional level by the Research Performance and
Management Committee (RPMC). Approval requires meeting a number of stringent criteria.
This evolving research strategy, congruent with the stated mission of the Business School to be a
globally accredited business school that inspires people and organisations to grow in a responsible
and empathetic way through a fusion of innovative education, research and practice, will enable
the development of an ambitious and transformative vehicle to enhance research performance.
(https://www.bournemouth.ac.uk/about/our-faculties/bournemouth-university-business-
school/explore-business-school).

The plan requires a bold, focused strategy to achieve the following:
   • To focus on excellence in key areas of national and international reputation.
   • To grow the quantity of research active staff, the quality of journal articles submitted, and
       successful bids for research awards.
   • To further align our research culture and environment with (internal and external) strategic
       drivers towards sustainability, responsibility and be known as a driver of positive change.

Therefore, BUBS explicitly tracks its performance across a number of key indicators that include:
   • Income targets.
   • Awarded income.
   • Pending income.
   • Average income per bid.
   • Average income per awarded bid.
   • % of staff bidding.
   • Average bids per fte.
   • Female bid proportion.
   • Disability declared bid proportion.
   • Bid value.
   • Proportion of professors within departments that align to critical mass.
   • % of academic staff also working in industry.



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

1.3 Open research

Open research is supported across this unit with an open research repository, Bournemouth
University Research Online (BURO), and open research data archive (BORDaR). Researchers
benefit from the institutional Open Access Publication Fund to support open access publications as
a ‘gold route’. Agreements are in place with key publishers including Wiley, Springer and Sage, to
allow BU staff to publish for free in their open access journals. Specific benefits include more rapid
dissemination of research into the public domain, which underpins impact (e.g. Miles’ 2020 paper
was used with the Foreign and Commonwealth Office and was an identified potential impact case
study; Filis’ 2020 paper tackled fiscal policy and synchronisation in the European economies and
was therefore highly topical and open access was supported to maximise attention).
In addition, the creation of the role of Open Data Champion (Dickinson) in 2018 to promote and
facilitate this way of working reflects its importance to our unit. This has driven awareness and
engagement with the BU Open Access Policy, and, as a result 98% of in scope outputs in the unit
were Open Access compliant or had a permitted exception (as of December 2020).

1.4 Research Integrity

Research integrity is of fundamental importance to all research conducted in the unit and several
researchers (e.g. Chapleo, Bolat) are members of the institutional research ethics panels.
Institutionally mandated ethics training for all staff and PGRs is enhanced by support and advice
provided by a dedicated departmental ethics panel and all research activities are required to
comply fully with the highest ethical standards. There is an online assessment process as a first
stage of ethics scrutiny, followed for higher-risk projects by a thorough assessment by the
institutional ethics panels.
Aside from ethics processes, a culture of research integrity has been embedded through, for
example, sessions at the department level on research integrity, and information sharing from
ethics panel representatives.


 2. People

2.1 Staffing Strategy

This unit has grown significantly since 2013, from 23 individuals submitted to REF2014 to 65 to
REF2021. This is reflected in a journey that has embedded research more deeply in BUBS and
generated a new research-focused infrastructure and culture.

Within the unit it is recognised that our key assets are the intellectual skills of our academic staff
and that the solution to achieving our strategic aims is to capitalise on these, via a robust staffing
strategy which aims to:
    • Increase the FTE of research-active staff. Following a staffing review, during this REF
        period, a substantial investment (c. £750k) was made in academic posts in BUBS to
        increase the ability and capacity of staff to undertake research. The strategy followed
        during this recruitment phase has been two-pronged: (1) to appoint a group of ECRs to
        increase the sustainability and vibrancy of the environment; and (2) to recruit senior
        academics to provide strong research leadership. This recruitment strategy is also
        consistent with the Business School policy of allocating 25 per cent of workload time to
        research activity, which ensures sufficient capacity to fulfil research objectives. This
        investment enabled the appointment of 21 new research active staff since 2014, with five
        appointments at professor/associate professor level and 13 ECRs.
    • Recruit senior members of staff to strengthen research leadership. The strategy required
        and continues to require recruitment of senior researchers (Associate Professor, Reader or
        Professor) to lead our emerging Research Centres and mentor our continuing investment in
        ECRs. The Business School’s workforce plan to 2025 shows a further increase of seven
        professors and other senior posts (Readers and Associate Professors), two Principal

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Lecturer or Grade 9 posts, 11 Senior Lecturer appointments, seven Lecturers, and up to
       eight Associate Lecturers and Research Assistants.
   •   Increase opportunities and participation in staff development and research activity. Under
       the Research and Knowledge Exchange Development Framework, BUBS offers several
       researcher development schemes, tailored to research career stage / level of experience,
       as well as standalone events and courses. Since 2014, these have included the Grants
       Academy, EU Academic Development Scheme, seed corn funding for pilot projects, and
       the BRAD (BU Researcher/Academic Development) framework, based on Vitae’s
       Researcher Development Framework. A BUBS internal peer review scheme has been in
       operation since 2011 that supports the improvement of bid quality and develops staff
       expertise in bid writing. All of this helps to support bidding performance, which in term links
       to increased staff opportunities. The BU Research Blog supports the research culture by
       providing an established conduit by which information can be transferred and research
       outcomes disseminated, and a platform for internal and external networking.
   •   Increase staff qualifications. The percentage of staff holding a PhD increased steadily over
       this REF period, from 66% in 2015 to 79% in 2020. This is commensurate with a BU KPI to
       ensure a research qualified staff base.
   •   Our recruitment has been increasingly global as we aim to attract international talent,
       adding the diversity as part of the staffing strategy; this is evidenced by the fact that in 2020
       54.7% of our staff base were non-UK nationals.

2.2 Staff Support and Development

The Business School’s workload planning model was introduced to provide a framework for
individual staff’s research, teaching and professional practice, and allows for incentivisation of staff
through workload allowances. It assesses individual staff aspirations alongside the Business
School’s overall priorities and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and supports staff development
and requests for study leave. Broadly, staff are supported by the workload model where at least 25
per cent of their time is allocated to research, but if, for example, substantive bids are won, there is
the opportunity for increased research allowance. Similarly, periods assuming positions of
responsibility (e.g. Head of Department) may be rewarded with subsequent study leave; for
example, in 2020-21 two former Department Heads benefitted from this policy (Hölscher and
Chapleo) and this enabled specific bids and publications to be completed.

The Business School recognises that teaching and research are inextricably linked, and that the
vitality of both undergraduate and postgraduate curricula requires a teaching contribution from
active researchers. To achieve this, active researchers teach at all levels and teaching activities
are directly linked to areas of research expertise; teaching loads are also adapted to account for
any increased research requirement. Research allowances are also allocated to newly appointed
members of staff and ECRs to help them develop their research portfolios, and study leave support
schemes are available at both Business School and university level. Citizenship duties are
reviewed regularly, and a process has been implemented to support inexperienced staff into
programme management roles, relieving more experienced staff for other senior roles or to refresh
their research activity.

Pay progression and promotion at BU are also informed by research performance. BU has an
annual pay progression and promotion process enabling staff to regularly apply for promotion or
pay increments. This is closely linked to the detailed BU Academic Career Framework which sets
out explicit metrics, and the evaluation and success of promotion applications are informed by the
individual staff performance in terms of research within this.

For example, under this process during this REF period, nine staff were promoted within the unit to
Professor (Filis, Parrilli, Hartwell) or Associate Professor (Hillingdon, Robson, Roushan, Chapleo,
Gbadamosi, Brown).

BUBS recognises that ECRs are crucial to the future of research and has measures in place to
address this: BUBS research Themes have a strong focus on supporting and nurturing ECRs. This

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
is undertaken in tandem with the ECR network group, run by the Professoriate with the explicit aim
of promoting collaboration among ECRs. A number of ECRs within the unit have benefitted (e.g.
Gilani, De Silva Kanakaratne – see 2.2.1).

2.2.1 Research Staff Development

Research staff tend to be recruited by being costed into larger bids, often in the form of post-
doctoral researchers. They are invaluable in delivery of funded projects, outputs from projects, and
in securing follow-on funding, building capacity in focused research areas and developing impact.
In 2014, BU published its first Code of Practice for the Employment and Development of Research
Staff. The code provides guidance on the university’s expectations for the recruitment, support,
management and development of research staff in line with the Concordat to support the Career
Development of Researchers (2019). BUBS policy and practice for research staff is aligned to the
principles of the Concordat.

In terms of the Concordat, we are signatories and therefore fully embrace its spirit and practice.
For example, we ensure that BUBS students conform to all ethical, legal and professional
obligations incumbent on their work through our ethics procedures, and that these nurture a
research environment that supports research of the highest standards of rigour and integrity. The
BUBS research staff representative provides a report at every BUBS Research & Professional
Practice Committee. This includes updates on implementation of the concordat.

Research staff are also supported by the BU Research Staff Association (RSA) and where
appropriate the Early Careers Researcher (ECR) Network; these act as forums to promote BU
research culture. Research staff from across BU are encouraged to attend network with other
researchers, disseminate their work, discuss career opportunities, hear updates on how BU is
implementing the Research Concordat, and give feedback or raise concerns that will help to
develop and support the research community at BU. All research staff can access the Research &
Knowledge Exchange Development Framework (RKEDF) in the same way as academic staff.

The ECR Network specifically supports such staff in terms of skills development, with, for example,
training (run by NCCPE as mentioned in section 1.2.1) and publication/ dissemination support
through events such as the ESRC Festival of Social Science. An example of BUBS ECRs
benefitting from the ECR Network are Gilani and De Silva Kanakaratne, where engagement
resulted in a 2020 presentation/ discussion with BU senior management at an awayday.
Finally, staff are supported in linking into global research networks. AACSB drives and helps
facilitate this, as accreditation has embedded global ambitions and scope to BUBS’ intellectual
contribution, and this ‘badge of quality’ allows access to other accredited schools and their
networks.

2.2.2 Accountability

Incentives and support are critical but need to be augmented by accountability at a Department
and individual level. Departments are measured on KPIs that include research income, bidding
activity and publications. At an individual level accountability is culturally embedded. A good
example of this is among the Professoriate, where their leading role in driving research is
recognised and assessed through annual research plans (which all staff must submit), the BU
academic career framework, and annual appraisal goal setting.
Individual goals are of course appropriate to career stage; a Professor would be expected to have
a significant research leadership role whereas ECRs are supported to focus upon embedding
research skills and submitting appropriate bids and papers.

2.3 Research students

BUBS has a vibrant, diverse and dynamic community of postgraduate researchers (PGRs), with
our current cohort drawn from 30 countries (across Europe, Africa, Asia and Australasia) and
embracing topics that range from contemporary yoga communities to narrative disclosures in

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
financial statements. These in turn are mapped to UNSGDs that include 1 (No Poverty), 8 (Decent
Work and Economic Growth), 14 (Life Below Water) and 16 (Peace, Justice and Strong
Institutions). PhD topics resonate strongly with the BUBS Mission where responsibility is key.

PGRs are supported by excellent resources and facilities (evidenced by the PG Researcher
Development Programme). Bournemouth University Doctoral College is responsible for research
student experience and oversees the development, implementation and quality assurance of
studentship provision. Since 2014, BU has recruited 219 funded PhD Studentships, of which 21 are
within the Business School (this financial support is expanded on below). BU employs state-of-the-
art PGR monitoring software (ResearchPAD, provided by Converis) in a supportive way to facilitate
a student’s development throughout their PhD journey.

The BUBS PGR community has grown significantly, from 57 in 2013 to 128 in 2014-15 (following a
focus on PhD recruitment through fee-waiver scholarships, BU Studentships, and matched funded
PhDs) During the years that followed, until 2019-20, the number of PGRs remained constant with
an average of 113 PhD and MRes/MPhil students per year.

The unit had 59 PhD completions (49.83 when splitting supervision) in this REF period, with a
trajectory of steady increase in line with the strategy outlined in REF2014 to maintain reasonable
completion times (for example, there were 7 completions in 2015 and 16 in 2019).

At present, the application flow remains strong and new enrolments in 2019 and 2020 indicate that
the Business School’s PGR community will continue to thrive, as our aim is to increase both quality
and quantity of PGRs. In terms of financial support, eight PGRs have currently been awarded
funding through the Business School’s studentships and bursary schemes, whereas ten are fully
funded from the Vice Chancellor’s Doctoral Scholarships and Business School Awards Schemes.
BU-supported studentships have contributed to the Business School’s PGR community because
several support activities currently provided to our students would not be viable without a critical
mass of PGRs.

PGRs receive support from the Professoriate as part of high-profile academic supervisory teams
and elected PGR representatives. PGRs can join the BU Women’s Academic Network (WAN)
whose work feeds into Athena Swan, equality and diversity agendas and Equal Pay Review work.

The substantive PG Researcher Development Programme (RDP) is run by the central Doctoral
College and offers over 150 on-campus workshops, online modules, an interactive webinar series,
and a range of e-learning resources. The RDP mirrors the Vitae Researcher Development
Framework (RDF), enabling PGRs to tailor their individual developmental journey.

Parallel to this, the Business School provides a range of specialist training opportunities for BUBS
PGRs. Examples offered recently include: specific econometric software; quantitative techniques;
qualitative techniques; software for quantitative and qualitative research (e.g. R, STATA, EViews7,
NVIVO); data sources for specific subject areas (e.g. labour markets); building transferable skills
(e.g. writing academic journal articles, public engagement) and how to publish in key journals in
specific areas such as Foreign Direct Investment (FDI). Moreover, the Business School funds
attendance at external training courses, for qualitative and quantitative methods (e.g. grounded
theory, content analysis) and specialised software usage (TATA, R) offered by the Centre for
Microdata Methods and Practice (CEMMAP), as well as for forecasting and economic modelling
methods and specialised software usage (Eviews, OxMetrics) offered by Timberlake Consultants.

In addition to this formal training programme, the Business School’s Research Discussion Forum
holds weekly two-hour sessions. This forum provides support sessions offered to both PGRs and
ECRs on topics of relevance, including literature searches and data analysis, often delivered by
visiting speakers funded by the Business School. Within the forum there is also the opportunity for
the discussion of particular research problems faced by individual researchers, and for PGRs and
ECRs to present their work to peers to enhance their skills and confidence.


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
These are further supported by sessions to encourage research conversations in a collegiate
atmosphere at a Department level (e.g. the Department of Marketing, Strategy and Innovation
delivered 17 such sessions in the last 2 years to PGRs/staff on topics such as publication
strategy).

Participation at conferences and the submission of papers to academic journals is encouraged as
part of skills development for PGRs, and related costs are covered by a dedicated research fund
provided to every PhD student for supporting such dissemination activities. Over the last 18
months a total of 25 papers have been presented by our PGRs at academic conferences and a
total of 22 papers have been submitted by our PGRs to refereed journals, of which six have been
accepted for publication to date. Furthermore, the Doctoral College has a PGR Development Fund,
which provides support to PGRs wishing to present papers at domestic and international
conferences.

High quality research facilities are provided for BUBS students at BU. All PGRs are housed in a
bespoke open-plan environment on the first floor of the Executive Business Centre (EBC) close to
their supervisors and active researchers, to facilitate the sharing of ideas, create a sense of
community and maximise communication between PGRs and supervisory teams. This proximity
contributes to a vibrant and supportive research culture. The Doctoral College also manages
student research facilities and provides administrative support.

The Business School has an open and embracing research environment for PGRs. This is
reflected by several initiatives such as the recently introduced Themes for promoting research
excellence. Themes are particularly beneficial for PGRs as they allow them to gain skills and
knowledge by working closely with experienced academics in developing research papers,
conference presentations and research bids. This collaborative research culture is demonstrated
by BU’s dedicated performance indicator to student/staff co-authored publications. The BU
Research Blog also includes a dedicated PGR section to provide a focal point for information of
interest to PGRs and to strengthen their sense of community.

In addition to Centre, Departmental and Business School seminar series, PGRs have the chance
to present their work regularly at the Postgraduate Research Forum and at BU’s Annual
Postgraduate Research Conference, run by the Doctoral College. This conference provides an
opportunity for PGRs at all stages to showcase and promote their research. Many PGRs are also
able to access the ECR network (see section 2.2.1) as their research careers progress.

Looking forward, BU will continue to build a healthy and vibrant PGR community. A specific
example of this is the plan to invest in matched funded studentships through to 2025.

2.4 Equality and Diversity

The gender balance within this unit has increased over the reporting period and by the end of 2020
the profile was 48% female and 52% male (from 43% female and 57% male at the start of the
period). A review of the data for 2020 identifies that the majority of female staff are undertaking
lecturer (64% F) or senior lecturer (49% F) roles. The data identifies gender balance at both grade
9 and Associate Professor (Grade 10) level. Above Grade 10 (Professor level), 36% are female
(from a total of 14 Professors). There are explicit measures in place to support female staff’s
career progression through grades, as detailed at the bottom of this section.

BUBS staff are international in nature with 54.7% of staff from the three Departments that make up
the unit’s non-UK nationals as of August 2020. The proportion of Black, Asian, Minority Ethnic
(BAME) staff who are part of this unit reached 30% in 2020.

The Business School’s staffing strategy is underpinned by the university’s HR policies and
practices which reflect the seven principles of The Concordat to Support the Career Development
of Researchers. This is overseen by the university’s Research Concordat Steering Group,
membership of which includes two academics from the Business School. HR policies are in place

                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
that permit flexible working and career breaks. In addition, BU is committed to achieving equality of
opportunity for academic staff to develop as researchers and to recognising the requirement to
take account of gender and diversity.

Therefore, equality and diversity have been embedded within BUBS activity since 2014. An
example of this is our publications, which show the highest diversity of author ethnic group across
the REF units of assessment and are, at 25%, 9% higher than BU’s overall average.

REF2021 data reflects an imbalance between male and female output submissions, where slightly
less outputs submitted are from female authors. However, we have in place robust strategies to
address this going forward, including a PDRA employed to support staff (of which a greater
proportion have been female), the Athena Swan institutional self-assessment team, the Women’s
Academic Network, and the Equality and Diversity Steering Group. In 19-20 51% of submitted bids
were led by female staff, which is promising.

BUBS staff also actively deliver and promote equality in BU and beyond, also detailed in Section 4.

2.4.1 Athena Swan

The Deputy Dean for Research and other members of the Business School management team
have undertaken equality and diversity training and drive this agenda within BUBS. BU received an
institutional Athena SWAN bronze award in 2015 and in the summer of that year signed the new
Athena SWAN Charter, which committed the university to meeting ten key principles within their
policies, practices, action plans and culture. As a result, we have created an Athena SWAN
institutional self-assessment team, which oversees the gender equality work at BU and is a sub-
group of the Equality and Diversity Steering Group. In 2013, BU also launched the Women’s
Academic Network (WAN) and the Business School is well represented in this integral group of
scholars (by Carr, Taylor and Gilani).

2.5 Research Ethics

BUBS recognises its responsibility to researchers and the wider community and is committed to
creating an environment that promotes the highest standards of integrity and professionalism in the
conduct of research. The university's policies, procedures, guidance, and training relating to
research integrity and ethics have been designed to ensure that these standards are maintained
and are embedded at the unit level though BUBS ethics panel representatives.

BUBS upholds the commitments outlined in the Concordat to Support Research Integrity. All
research undertaken by BUBS staff and students is therefore subject to appropriate ethical
reflection - leading to, if necessary, a formal ethics review. Researchers are required to follow
the Research Ethics Code of Practice, and to achieve approval (via an online ethics checklist)
before conducting any research. 12 BUBS staff volunteer their time to sit on ethics programme
teams where standards are maintained, demonstrating our commitment to this area.

To support the above, BUBS requires all academic staff and PGRs to undertake training in
research ethics via a research ethics e-module. This ensures that all members of staff who conduct
their own research and supervise students are proficient in basic principles of research ethics.
BU also has a dedicated website for Research Governance and Integrity, available at:
https://www.bournemouth.ac.uk/research/research-environment/research-governance-integrity.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Income

Research income has increased by 39% over the period from an average £114,000 per annum in
REF14 to £159,000 in REF2021. These research monies have been drawn from a wide range of


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
funding bodies and reflect an emphasis upon applied research and working with external
stakeholders to employ research to resolve problems, inform practice and evaluate policy.

Despite high competition, the Business School has increased its research funding from prestigious
UK bodies, such as the British Academy/BA Leverhulme and the British Council. In particular, BA
research awards value increased from £15,000 (2008-13) to £47,000 (2014-19). The total value of
British Council awards was as high as £760,000 during the same period (e.g. Baines, Bray).

Parallel to these, BUBS staff were awarded major European Commission and EU research grants,
through popular funding schemes such as the Erasmus+ and Horizon2020-Marie Curie (Cang,
Patton, Alexander, Filis, Robson).

The Unit also received notable research grants from UK research councils, such as the ESRC
(Hölscher, Khorana).

 Start date   Funder name            Project Title                                    Value

 01/10/2014 Erasmus Mundus           POSADEM - Positive about Dementia                540,000

 01/01/2015 EU                       FoodSMART                                        106,449

 18/03/2015 NIHR i4i funding         Facial remote activity monitoring eyewear        145,434
                                     (FRAME)
 06/04/2015 European Union’s         Forecasting oil prices, oil price volatility and 117,907
            Horizon 2020             economic policy uncertainty (ENEFOR)
            research and
            innovation
            programme
 01/09/2015 Horizon2020 - Marie      Optimising Nutritional Health and Wellbeing      157,000
            Curie                    through Local Sustainable Food Systems ‘Nu-
                                     FEAST’)
 04/01/2016 Directorate-             Public Procurement Initiative                    100,000
            General      for
            Development
            and
            Cooperation –
            EuropeAid
 01/07/2016 ERASMUS+                 International Learning Platform in               264,485
                                     Accountancy
 01/01/2017 European                 CHARMED-Characterisation of a green              2,027,399
            Commission               microenvironment and to study its impact
                                     upon health and well-being in the elderly as a
                                     way forward for health tourism
 01/03/2017 European                 SMart rObOTs for fire-figHting (SMOOTH)          804,523
            Commission
 01/08/2017 European Union’s         Objective-based forecast evaluations             166,785
            Horizon 2020             for crude oil volatility (FOROIL)
            research and
            innovation
            programme (grant
            agreement no.
            746025)
 01/08/2017 Erasmus +                Professional SMEs in Tourism -                   387,445
                                     Transnational Development of Skills
                                     Acquisition

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 02/10/2017 Department of              Seeking a Better Understanding of Food Price       132,000
            Environment, Food          Transmission: Modelling Retail Food Price
            and Rural Affairs          Inflation
 01/04/2018 British Council            Veg+                                               119,638

 05/06/2018 EU Commission              Study on the Intellectual Property Implications    160,000
                                       of the Development of Industrial 3D Printing
 01/09/2018 Erasmus+                   Designing Innovative Pedagogy for Complex          252,488
                                       Accountancy Topics
 01/09/2018 Erasmus+                   Accounting in the Framework of European            318,379
                                       Challenges in Academics and Professional
                                       Bodies
 01/10/2018 British Council            Pharmacoeconomics development in Egypt             200,000

 01/10/2018 British Council            The UK-China Health and Economy                    380,000
                                       Partnership: Project extension.
 01/09/2019 GambleAware                Powerful Social Norms, Meaningful                  250,000
                                       Transparency and Data-
                                       Informed Behavioural Change for
                                       Responsible Online Gambling (EROGamb
                                       2.0)
 02/08/2019 Innovate UK                Actisense KTP                                      172,056

 02/11/2019 The World Bank             Disaster Preparedness and Response                 252,296
                                       Capacity Assessment in the Eastern
                                       Caribbean
 06/01/2020 British Council            The UK-Egypt Health and Economy Impact             190,297
            (Newton)                   Partnership


Figure 2. Notable grants over £100,000 in this REF period

3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities

We invest significantly in our estate each year to provide modern and well-equipped facilities. Our
campus development programme includes extensive work being undertaken which aims to
enhance interdisciplinary research and house our research centres.

A good example of this is BU’s investment in the Executive Business Centre building. which has
provided quality research facilities, including: office space for academics and PGRs; state-of-the
art meeting rooms; a high-quality lecture theatre; dedicated IT labs; a board room and plenty of
social space. The EBC is established as a hub of BU research activity with PGRs and many
academics located there.

Staff and PGRs have access to the well-resourced BU library services; BU is a past winner of the
Times Higher Education’s Leadership and Management Award for ‘Outstanding Library Team’. The
library has state-of-the-art facilities, including ‘techno-booths’ (discreet technology-enabled student
working spaces) and dedicated postgraduate areas for silent and group study. During the REF
period, BU has invested c. £3m per annum in library staffing and information provision, including
books, journals and online resources. In addition, staff and PGRs have access to a number of
excellent online databases to support their research including Research Professional, Scopus and
Web of Knowledge.

Library facilities supporting research in the Business School


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Library resources supporting BUBS are found in The Sir Michael Cobham Library (TSMCL) and the
Bournemouth House Library. Researchers in TSMCL benefit from a designated Post Graduate
Zone with both silent and group study spaces. Together TSMCL on the Talbot Campus and
Bournemouth House Library at the Lansdowne have 1,785 study spaces. Also included are around
650 fixed PCs, 75 of which are pre-bookable. Collaborative working is supported with 17
‘Technobooths’, with 3 of them in the Post Graduate Zone. These enable groups to work on
projects together via a large screen. In Summer 2020 the Weston Library will open on the ground
floor of the new 24/7 Bournemouth Gateway Building at the Lansdowne Campus. This will replace
Bournemouth House Library, adding extra capacity which can be utilised by researchers.

Collections relating to the unit
The library budget for resources relating to BUBS is £48,000 for books and standing orders and
£113,000 for journals. The BUBS budget for electronic resources is £266,000.

We have in the region of 55,500 print books relevant to this area, and in total nearly 500,000 e-
books and 45,000 e-journals. Researchers also benefit from our Inter- Library Loans service to
access materials not held in the collections. Audio visual resources are available via our
subscriptions to resources such as Henry Stewart Talks, and we have access to thousands of
historic and contemporary newspapers and magazines via our subscriptions to Gale Reference
Complete and FT.com.

Library support
The library contributes to BU’s Researcher Development Programme (RKEDF), delivering
workshops on Research Data Management, Open Access, Literature Searching, Referencing,
Avoiding Plagiarism and Bibliometrics.

Research Support
BU’s Research Development and Support team (RDS) provide support and guidance for BUBS
staff submitting proposals, including information about funding opportunities, advice on presenting
and costing proposals, and specialist advice on matters such as public engagement, impact and
ethics. The unit’s strategy for increasing grant income is: to provide mentoring and leadership and
encouragement for bid application and publication through the research clusters; to set targets and
assure support through the appraisal system and to engage as many staff as possible with BU-
wide staff development schemes such as the Research and Knowledge Exchange Development
Framework.

Since 2014, BU RDS has enhanced its provision in line with research strategy, including:
       • Supporting the volume and quality of bidding activity from the Business School since
          2014; a strategy underpinned through external expertise. Between 2015-19 83 bids
          were submitted by BUBS academics; 54 were supported by external bid writing
          consultants / attendance at bid writing workshops.
       • RDS attendance at Academic Department away days to embed a culture of research
          support and synergistic communication.
       • Organisation of writing retreats; RDS/BUBS collaboration to develop ideas/progress
          outcomes.
       • ‘Sandpit events’ (latterly called STEAMLabs) to underpin interdisciplinary research
          ideas / networks and industry engagement; dedicating time to development of novel
          ideas. Recent labs based around key government priorities include: Food Security (25
          October 2017), Global Challenges (7 February 2018), Industrial Challenges (11 April
          2018), and Virtual Problems (6 June 2018).

Research infrastructure has also developed with academic initiatives and policies within
Departments. For example, there is a formal Peer Review system for bids (delivered by senior
academics in each Department), in addition to that provided centrally by RDS who provide external
application review. This ensures enhancement and quality of all bids.



                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Mentoring has been among the successful measures introduced to enhance the research culture,
and all senior academics in the Professoriate have mentees. Recent successes include an ECR
(Fan) who in 2018 was awarded a BA/Leverhulme Small Research Grant Result for £10,000 at first
attempt.

Business School support and spending has been discussed more fully in Section 1.2.1, but in
summary, a significant investment has been made in the unit and more generally in the research
culture (for example, BUBS received just over £52,000 per year in QR funding over the last 3
years).
All the above has built upon the support that was available in 2014 to embed a robust research
culture that will take BUBS forward towards the next REF assessment.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

The strategic approach of BUBS is to build national and international collaboration and impact
through the development of its research Centres. These Centres actively look for opportunities of
cross-over both within the Business School/University and external stakeholders. All
Themes/Centres, both established and emerging, have been supported by Business School and
university initiatives to grow and support network building and research strengths. Evidence of
success is then realised through awards, honorary/elected positions, collaborative outputs, and
applied research as well as societal impact.

4.1 Impact case studies

A clear indication of contribution in this section is through the impact case studies submitted for the
unit. For a number of these, key elements merit emphasis: there is clear evidence of impact
emanating directly from modelling, for example, in impact cases relating to Brexit in terms of food
pricing (Lloyd) and international trade (Khorana), as well as key strategic economic decisions
concerning Heathrow Airport (Blake). Further afield, new methodological matching techniques
have been developed in banking (Webster), and staying within financial services, a new framework
has been developed to repair trust within the insurance sector (Robson). Further examples of
impact include regulation of the media industry (Oliver), understanding and mitigating risk in terms
of terrorism within the travel sector (Hillingdon) and finally, a Points of Failure tool has been
implemented in Africa to help recovery after major catastrophes including Covid-19 (Miles).

4.2 Accreditation

Accreditation from the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) in
2018 was a significant achievement for the Business School. AACSB’s mission to foster
engagement, accelerate innovation and amplify impact in business education aligned well with
work at BU. Three areas in particular are endorsed and evidenced by attainment of AACSB
standards:
    • Accreditation strongly endorses our international status as we were required to
       demonstrate how internationalisation is explicitly integrated in both BU2025 and BUBS
       strategy.
    • Their focus on intellectual contribution was one of the standards of assessment and
       therefore closely linked to REF.
    • An additional AACSB standard of accreditation assesses societal impact, which is a key
       focus of the BUBS research strategy. AACSB accreditation has therefore helped solidify
       this aspect of our strategy and sharpened our focus on demonstrating the impact of our
       research. This is evident throughout this document and in the impact case studies
       submitted for this UoA.

Looking forward, AACSB’s increasing focus on intellectual contribution will drive even closer
alignment with our research, whilst their values - which include global mindset, ethics and social
responsibility - align well with BU’s strategic investment areas. The vision of AACSB (of Business
Schools as a force for good!) also resonates well with the ethos of responsible growth through

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
impact that underpins BUBS. The School will continue to work with AACSB on this vision,
conducting useful and impactful research, as part of retaining our accreditation.

BUBS also fosters close relationships with other relevant accrediting bodies, including the Institute
of Data Marketing (IDM), Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) and Chartered Management
Institute (CMI). These bodies endorse the quality and relevance of the unit’s educational provision,
but are also important to our ongoing research strategy, whereby we continue to collaborate with
these bodies to build networks and embed impact.

After REF2021, ongoing alignments with accrediting bodies will be important to the strategy for the
unit. For example, the Chartered Institute of Marketing, Chartered Management Institute and
Institute of Data Marketing partnerships will help to generate impact through collaboration.

Other accreditations are being pursued, with a view to providing clear and ongoing signals of
quality (and therefore to feed into future staff recruitment). One key example is our alignment with
the European Foundation for Management Development (EFMD) through its European
Programme Accreditation System (EPAS) accreditation. This commenced with reinstatement of full
membership acceptance in 2019, and the initial proposal is underway, where BUBS will again
evidence its global scope, linking clearly to UNSDGs and requiring a demonstrably strong
international strategy.

Staff in the unit are also working towards the Small Business Charter award. This is granted to
business schools that work with both SMEs and the UK Government to help support UK SMEs. To
achieve this, we need to show research, professional engagement, and educational impact with
SMEs. Accreditation, as one of only thirty UK business schools, will better underpin access to
potential research funding from Innovate UK.

Collaborations with academic bodies are also important. For example, staff in the unit worked very
closely with the UK Academy of Marketing’s Business to Business Special Interest Group on
research aspects such as data collection and joint bidding activity. We see ongoing collaboration
throughout the research process as core to the future of research in BUBS.

4.3 Contribution to the discipline

4.3.1 Awards and Honorary Positions

Staff within the unit have secured both awards and honorary positions (a recent assessment
identified 51 such positions in this REF period). Examples include:
    • Professor Lloyd served as president (2015-16) of the Agricultural Economics Society, one of
         the world's leading associations of professional and academic agricultural economists.
    • Professor Memery was the first academic to be awarded the Chartered Insurance Institute
         Annual President Award (2016) for an outstanding contribution to the field.
    • Conference best papers were awarded, including Corporate Governance (2019),
         Accounting and Finance Association of Australia and New Zealand (2017) and British
         Academy of Management (2016; 2019).
    • Dr. Bolat and Dr. Ashraf led a team to 1st prize at the Institute of Direct and Digital
         Marketing (IDM) Student Competition (2016).




                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.3.2 Editorial positions

BUBS staff participate in the editorial boards of world-leading 4* journals in the field, such as the
Journal of Travel Research (Nordberg), and hold positions as guest editors in well-respected
journals, including the International Journal of Forecasting (3*, Hassani) and Tourism Economics
(2*, Seetaram).

 Start               Organisation                                       Role
 Year
   2014              Journal of Development Finance                     Editor

   2019              Journal of International Food & Agribusiness       Editor-in-Chief
                     Marketing
   2017              International Journal of Business and Systems      Editorial board member
                     Research
   2017      2018    Journal of Travel Research                         Editorial board member

   2017      2018    Tourism economics                                  Editorial board member

   2019      2019    Corporate Governance: An International             Editorial Board member
                     Review (Wiley)
   2018              Business Ethics and Leadership                     Editorial Board Member

   2017              Tourism Management Perspectives                    Editorial Panel

   2014      2016    Tourism Economics - IP Publishing                  Guest Editor

   2017      2017    Journal of Marketing of Higher Education           Special Edition Guest
                                                                        Editors
   2017              International Journal of Forecasting               Guest Editor

   2016              Economic Annals                                    Member of editorial
                                                                        board
   2018              Journal of Business to Business Marketing          Member of Editorial
                                                                        Board
   2018              The Institute of Economic Zagreb                   Member of Scientific
                                                                        Committee
   2015              Journal of Academic Value Studies (JAVS)           Member of the Advisory
                                                                        Board
   2016      2017    Post-Communist Economies                           Member of the Editorial
                                                                        Board
   2018              Journal of Business-to-Business Marketing          Member of the Editorial
                                                                        Board
   2019              The European, Mediterranean & Middle               Member of the
                     Eastern conference on Information System           international review
                                                                        board
   2019              International Journal of Nonprofit and Voluntary   Editorial Board member
                     Sector Marketing
   2015              International Review on Public and Nonprofit       Editorial Board member
                     Marketing
   2015            International Review on Public and Nonprofit         Editorial Board member
                   Marketing
Figure 3. Summary of key journals connected to BUBS staff

                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.3.3 Scholarly Outputs

The table below demonstrates the trajectory of a broadly increasing volume of outputs,
commensurate with our strategy.
                           2015-2016                 2017-2018                 2019-2020

 Conference Paper          139                       144                       69

 Journal article           142                       126                       201

 Report                    3                         3                         23

 Grand Total               284                       273                       293
Figure 4. Scholarly outputs 1 January 2015 - 31 December 2020

The internationally collaborative focus of this unit is evident in the below infographic from Scival,
where over 49% of scholarly outputs (indexed on Scopus) have been in collaboration with
international co-authors:




Figure 5. International collaboration in BUBS outputs. SciVal® database, Elsevier B.V.,
http://www.scival.com (downloaded on 02/12/20)

4.3.4 Conference Presentations

A total of over 350 conference presentations were delivered during this REF period, reflecting a
similar number of conference papers (See Figure 5 above).

4.3.5 Invited lectures

BUBS professoriate delivered 88 invited lectures during this REF period at
globally reputable academic institutions (including: University of Amsterdam; Polytechnic University
of Hong Kong [Filis]; Universities of Florence and Milan [Parilli]; Warsaw School of Economics
[Hartwell]; Regensburg University [Hölscher]) and to non-academic audiences and policymakers
(e.g. European Financial Congress [Hartwell]; House of Lords [Lloyd]; Bank of Greece [Filis]).

4.3.6 External examinations

A considerable number of staff serve as external examiners to various undergraduate, master’s
and MBA programmes across various international and UK institutions (including Russell Group
Universities [Hölscher, Nordberg]) and as external PhD examiners.



                                                                                               Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

4.3.7 External Responsibility

Business School staff hold a wide range of external positions and roles that include journal
editorships and editorial board positions, professional body chairs and representatives, academy
special interest group chairs, external examiners and PhD examiners, and validation panel
members.

These have increased during the REF period in line with our strategy with, for example, 10 in 2014
to 35 in 2019.

4.3.8 Public Engagement and Outreach

Public engagement and outreach activities with academic, non-academic and community
beneficiaries have increased considerably during recent years; from about 60 reported events during
2008-13 to almost 180 events in the period 2014-19. These have increased incrementally year on
year, with, for example, 21 events in 2019.

4.3.9. Global Outreach and Network Building

In terms of geographical reach, public engagement activities were 48% local/regional, 24% national
and 28% international.

BU has a well-developed global engagement strategy which has been successful in terms
of comprehensive internationalization (following the America Council on Education Framework)
through a fusion of education, research and professional practice. Examples are extensive, and
many are BU wide and therefore difficult to attribute exclusively to BUBS, but the Global Festival of
Learning, Research Innovation Staff Exchange European programmes, and British Council Newton
Institutional Links Projects are key examples delivered by BUBS staff (e.g. Bray, Bolat, Bobeva).

As discussed in section1.1, The appointment of an Associate Dean Global Engagement has
embedded the global focus of BUBS, where key activities included :
   •    “Higher Education Futures: perspectives for international research and collaboration in a
       4.0 world” held at BUBS on 18th Nov 2019 for BUBS visiting scholars and representatives of
       partner universities.
   • Staff-led student research at the Global Festivals of Learning (2 teams: 1 of 2 BA Business
       Studies students and 1 of 2 MBA students).
   • Student research projects at both BU summer schools and summer schools at partner
       universities such as University of San Jorge, Zaragoza, Spain and BINUS University,
       Indonesia.
   • Student and staff research presentations at the Global Challenges Summit 2018 focusing
       on UN SDG 4 “Quality Education”, 5 “Gender Equality” and 10 “Reduced Inequalities”. This
       was held through a virtual link in Bournemouth and Zaragoza.

The unique approach that we have taken on staff-student co-creation and co-production at global
level has resulted in winning a British Council grant of £60K for a project run in collaboration with
partners from Vietnam on “Developing a framework for maximising the value of University Industry
collaboration”. The outcomes of this project have been reported through a session delivered at the
HEA conference 2018 and a journal paper on developing a global talent for the World of Work.


4.3.10 Memberships

BUBS staff are affiliated to numerous prominent professional communities, including: the Chartered
Management Institute, the Chartered Institute of Marketing, the British Academy of Management,
the European Academy of Management, the Academy of Management, the Academy of Marketing,
Royal Societies and various European and international associations and research groups.

                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

4.3.11 Media and press profile

Several members of staff engage systematically with global and national traditional media, such as
TV and radio, and with digital media (Hillington, Hölscher, Khorana, Miles).

Examples of media exposure through prominent programmes/channels include: broadcast
interviews on BBC World News, articles in the Financial Times, World Street Journal (all Hartwell),
Sky News (Hillingdon) and BBC radio regional stations (Miles).

There have been a total of over 120 notable appearances in this REF period, with a noted year-on-
year increase.

4.4 Equality and Diversity

Equality and diversity are discussed more fully in section 2.4. However, in regard to contribution to
society BUBS staff have actively promoted equality and diversity through the following:
   • The founding of the BU Social Entrepreneurs Forum to create an inclusive, diverse platform
        of social entrepreneurs that works with national and regional business (Ayatakshi-Endow).
   • Disability awareness embedded in research training, with for example, autoethnography
        training using lived experience as a way of developing understanding of what it is like to live
        with a disability (Beer).
   • Delivering Global Entrepreneurship Week events on Women in Entrepreneurship
        (November 2019, Ayatakshi-Endow).




                                                                                              Page 23
