Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Sheffield


 Unit of Assessment: B-11 Computer Science and Informatics


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


1.1 Overview

The Department of Computer Science is committed to advancing the theoretical foundations of
computer science and to achieving impact through close collaboration with end users. Our focus
on interdisciplinary research is distinctive: much of our most impactful work arises from research at
the boundaries between computer science and other disciplines. We play a central role in the
University research environment, providing leadership for six interdisciplinary centres and flagship
institutes.

Our vision is to address major challenges within four themes: speech and language, healthcare
technologies, bioinspired machine intelligence, and dependable and secure systems. Our
strategy is to develop a large cohort of excellent researchers that exhibit breadth as well as depth,
enabling us to forge international collaborations that advance the discipline and create real-world
impact. Work across our four themes spans novel contributions to the theoretical foundations of the
discipline through to the translation of our research into applications used by thousands of people.
Research activity is supported by substantial investment in computing facilities and infrastructure,
including a planned £10.5m refurbishment of our accommodation.

Key achievements since REF2014 include:

   ●   Growth in academic staff from 33 to 55, with a 100% increase in the number of female
       academics and 67% growth in international academic staff.

   ●   Publications in top computer science (e.g. ACM, IEEE, TCS, NeurIPS) and interdisciplinary
       (e.g. Nature Communications, Nature Neuroscience, PNAS) venues.

   ●   £32.5m in research income, a 73% increase from REF2014.

   ●   Growth in industrial income from £875k to £2.1m, including two new industry-funded
       research centres supported by £1.4m to date.

   ●   New groups in Algorithms and Security of Advanced Systems, the latter with a £1.2m
       strategic investment from the University.

   ●   Growth in the PhD student population of 20%, with sustainability ensured through the
       award of a £5.2m UKRI Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) award, further supported by
       £2.2m in industry-funded studentships.

   ●   A successful impact pipeline that has produced three spin-out companies, informed
       UNESCO’s COVID-19 response and added $120m to the value of a major Silicon Valley
       speech technology company.

We take great pride in being a collegial, supportive research community, one in which equality,
diversity and inclusion (EDI) are core values. The Department was awarded an Athena SWAN
Silver award in 2016. Through an ongoing action plan, we are committed to advancing EDI in the
discipline through local, national, and international initiatives.

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.2 Unit structure, research strategy and progress towards REF2014 objectives

Our research strategy focuses on key questions and major challenges associated with our four
themes. Research in each theme is supported by a cluster of research groups, each of which is led
by a senior academic (Figure 1). Every theme addresses both fundamental research and
engineering applications. Academic membership in these research groups is not exclusive; many
researchers contribute to the activities of more than one group, and groups contribute to more than
one theme.

The Department sits within the Faculty of Engineering. All groups are supported by specialist
laboratory facilities, interdisciplinary facilities provided by the Faculty, and University-level high-
performance computing (HPC). Our Research Software Engineering (RSE) group provides
expertise on HPC within the Department and across the whole University.

In REF2014 we set out an ambitious plan for expansion, aiming to develop areas of existing
strength (speech and language technologies, machine learning (ML), healthcare technologies) and
grow our expertise in algorithms. Implementation of our REF2014 plans was further informed by a
strategic review in 2015/16, which recommended that new groups be established in Algorithms and
Security of Advanced Systems. The outcome over the assessment period has been a significant
strengthening of our research across all four themes, as outlined below.




                      Figure 1: Key strategic themes, structure, and collaborations

Speech and language

A major challenge for spoken language technology (SLT) is to develop conversational agents that
can engage in human-like dialogues: this requires a deep understanding of spoken language
behaviour and robustness to the presence of multiple talkers. Explainability, trustworthiness and
elimination of bias in SLT systems are also fundamental concerns.

We address these challenges through one of the strongest concentrations of SLT researchers in
academia worldwide, comprising 18 academics from our Natural Language Processing (NLP) and
Speech and Hearing (SPandH) groups (8 professors, 9 lecturers/ senior lecturers, 1 fellow). The
cluster is unique in its ability to conduct research across a broad spectrum, from computational
models of language and human hearing, to commercially deployed automatic speech recognition
(ASR) and text engineering systems.




                                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our success in addressing the challenges of this theme is illustrated by influential publications.
Work on noise-robust ASR includes an approach to using multiple microphones cited in Google
patents (Hain ICASSP), and papers on the CHiME challenges for distant microphone ASR that
have received over 1,000 citations (Barker, Computer Speech & Language). Papers published in
top NLP venues cover social media analysis (Aletras, ACL), metaphor identification (Lin, ACL),
idiomaticity detection (Villavicencio, ACL) and the evaluation of neural sentence encoders
(Barrault, EMNLP). The latter has been cited over 1100 times and inspired the widely used GLUE
benchmark. A study on predicting judicial decisions (Aletras, PeerJ CS) has received over 300
citations since 2016.

This theme was supported by funding awards totalling £16.3m. Additionally, we have ensured
future sustainability through a £5.2m UKRI CDT award in Speech and Language Technologies,
matched by £2.2m of industry sponsorship from Apple, Amazon, 3M and others. Three impact
case studies have emerged from this theme. The Silicon Valley company VoiceBase established a
centre to support Hain’s world-leading research on ASR (£500k p.a.). Machine translation research
has been supported by a prestigious £1.2m ERC starting grant (Specia) and has informed
technology used by Facebook and Microsoft. Text engineering for social media analysis
(Bontcheva) has been an outstanding success, attracting nearly £4m of grant funding and being
used by Buzzfeed and Nesta.

Moving forward, a particular focus will be on SLT for low-resource languages and sparse data
domains that are poorly served by current deep learning methods. We plan to establish a centre of
excellence in NLP for computational social science.

Healthcare technologies

Research in this theme is driven by the complexity of the clinical setting, aligned with challenges in
harnessing technology to deliver healthcare more effectively. We focus on computational models
as tools to identify causal relationships in disease mechanisms. Key challenges include maximising
the information gained from images and measurements, developing personalised models to
improve diagnosis and target therapy, monitoring disease progression via data analytics, and
translating these tools into routine use.

This theme is primarily supported by our Organisations, Information and Knowledge (OAK) and
Complex Systems Modelling (CSM) groups, with input from the ML group. Fifteen academics
contribute to the theme (5 professors, 10 lecturers/ senior lecturers). It is further supported by a
network of clinical and interdisciplinary collaborations provided by Insigneo (the Institute for in silico
Medicine), the Centre for Assistive Technology and Connected Healthcare (CATCH), the Sheffield
Institute for Translational Neuroscience (SITraN) and the flagship Neuroscience and Healthy
Lifespan Institutes.

Contributions to basic science and optimising therapy include insight into the mechanisms of
wound healing from multiscale models of cells and tissue (Walker, J Roy Soc Interface), novel
personalised models of the heart (Clayton, Phil Trans Roy Soc A), and models and risk
stratification of intracranial aneurysms (Watton, Biomech and Model Mechanobiol). Examples of
research translation include the integration of Watton’s aneurysm growth model into the ITIS
(Switzerland) SIM4LIFE software and clinical testing of a speech analytics system for the detection
of cognitive decline (Christensen). Data analytics approaches have been used to understand
patient trajectories through the NHS (PathAnalyse, funded by the Health Foundation and deployed
in Sheffield Teaching Hospitals, Villa-Uriol) and to quantify physical activity in the community
setting via a smartphone app (Large-Scale Data case study, over 1m downloads by 2019).


                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Grants totalling £5m were secured from funders including BBSRC, British Heart Foundation, the
EU, NIHR, the Health Foundation, Rosetrees Trust, Wellcome Trust, Amazon and EPSRC. Many
grants are collaborations between academic and clinical partners in the UK and internationally, as
well as industrial partners, e.g. we are partners in the €10.3m PRIMAGE Horizon 2020 project.

Our future research focus will be on leveraging our expertise in ML in areas such as uncertainty
quantification for personalised disease models and medical image analysis.

Bioinspired machine intelligence

Research is driven by the design of energy-efficient algorithms that learn from fewer data, and
yield solutions that are interpretable and explainable. We tackle these challenges through
fundamental research mainly inspired by biological organisms.

This theme is supported by 14 academics (3 professors, 11 lecturers/ senior lecturers) across the
ML, CSM, Visual Computing and Algorithms groups and makes a substantial contribution to
Sheffield Robotics (Prescott is the Director). Research spans fundamental theory on graph
networks, genetic algorithms and reinforcement learning to applications, e.g. in cognitive robotics.

Highlights include work on graph clustering (Peng, STOC) described as “breakthrough” by ACM
Fellow Sanjeev Khanna, work on graph convolutional networks (Lu, CIKM) that outperforms state-
of-the-art models, and a novel energy-based formulation of learning for spiking neural networks
(Gilra, ICML; e-Life). Models of insect navigation and learning (Marshall, Mangan, Vasilaki, PLOS
Computational Biology) and their applications in robotics have provided the intellectual foundation
for a spin-out company, Opteran. Alvarez’s work on data-efficient latent force models for
reinforcement learning (IEEE TAC) led to EPSRC funding on “one-shot learning”. Oliveto and
Sudholt’s runtime analysis of genetic algorithms won a GECCO’14 best paper award.

The theme is supported by grants totalling £8.6m, including funding from Amazon (Lu) and Google
(Vasilaki). Examples include the £1.2m ActiveAI EPSRC Centre-to-Centre grant (Mangan), which
establishes a long-term research partnership with leading teams in Australia, and the £2m Brain on
Boards programme grant (Marshall). Vasilaki has secured three grants for her work on
neuromorphic engineering, forging links with the Department of Materials Science and Engineering
(EPSRC and Leverhulme, £1.8m). Oliveto obtained an EPSRC Early Career Fellowship (£1.2m).
Prescott collaborates internationally via the Human Brain Project (£0.7m).

A particular focus of future research will be the development of explainable AI. Gilra and Vasilaki
recently secured a CHIST-ERA grant addressing causal explanations in reinforcement learning,
and Alvarez is developing methods for learning cause-effect models from large datasets. Lu will
focus on interpretable ML for data-scarce domains. We will expand our work on bioinspired robotic
vision (Sun), supported by additional staff recruitment.

Dependable and secure systems

Research is driven by the challenge of developing systems that are demonstrably dependable and
secure. Key problems relate to concurrent systems, for which correctness is tightly coupled to
architecture. Hybrid systems, which combine discrete and continuous data, provide particular
challenges for smart manufacturing and autonomous systems. Ensuring privacy in modern
advanced systems is also an important issue.

The theme is supported by 18 staff (5 professors, 12 lecturers/ senior lecturers, 1 fellow) across
the Algorithms, Testing, Verification and Security groups, including four of the most senior UK



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
academics working in the field (Derrick, Hierons, Struth, Clark). Research income was £6.5m,
including grants from the EPSRC, EU, Dstl, Google and Facebook.

Highlights include significant contributions to concurrency theory, including
completeness/decidability for concurrent Kleene algebras (Struth, LIPIcs), decidability/complexity
for distributed testing (Hierons, IEEE ToC), and notions of correctness and complexity for weak
memory (Derrick, ACM TOCL). We developed authentication protocols (Gope, IEEE TIFS), ciphers
(Kavun, CRYPTO), and access control methods (Kaaniche, IEEE TCC) for resource-constrained
architectures and novel techniques in distributed testing (Hierons, ACM TOSEM) and verification in
the presence of transactional memory (Derrick, several EPSRC projects in collaboration with
ARM). We addressed compositionality to enable scalability (Hierons, EPSRC RoboTest) and the
testing of highly concurrent Erlang code (Derrick, EU PROWESS). We advanced automation
through work on automated reasoning (Struth, FAOC), the theoretical basis for model checking
(Ordyniak, FOCS) and theorem-provers applied to verify the security of real-world applications
(Popescu, POPL). We use metaheuristics such as genetic algorithms (e.g., Clark, Journal Syst.
Soft.; McMinn, ACM TOSEM) and are one of the few groups to provide theoretical results
regarding the effectiveness of these techniques (e.g. Oliveto, TCS).

Future plans include exploring the quantitative verification and testing of probabilistic systems,
supported by the UKRI Verifiability Node and EPSRC RoboTest project (Hierons). We will further
develop verification and testing techniques for transactional and non-volatile memory (Derrick).
EPSRC-funded work on causal inference (Walkinshaw, CiTCOM) provides a starting point for
addressing large-scale systems. Finally, we will investigate how AI can be exploited for defence
and attack (Clark, Gope and Kaaniche).

1.3 Approach to supporting interdisciplinary research

Through our strategic themes, we carry out research in areas that are interdisciplinary by nature,
and seek impact through partnerships with other domains. Speech and Language draws on
phonetics, linguistics, psychophysics and engineering but also contributes to these disciplines (e.g.
computational models of hearing, NLP methods in corpus linguistics). Healthcare Technology and
Bioinspired Machine Intelligence are entirely interdisciplinary themes, in which close collaboration
with other research areas (particularly medicine and biological sciences) is key. Approximately
60% of our outputs and 35% of our grants involve collaborations with departments such as
Biological Sciences, Neuroscience, Medicine, Psychology, Physics, and Law.

We identify key interdisciplinary areas based on research strength and sustainability and support
them through the following mechanisms:

Strategic leadership of interdisciplinary University institutes and centres. We hold leadership
positions in: Insigneo (Clayton); Sheffield Robotics (Prescott); and CATCH (Christensen) as well as
in three of the four University Flagship Research Institutes - Neuroscience (Vasilaki, Gilra), Healthy
Lifespan (Villavicencio, Villa-Uriol), Sustainable Food (Cunningham). These facilitate our
involvement in large collaborative grants, e.g. the €15m SANO centre for personalised medicine,
and lead to interdisciplinary outputs (e.g. Current Biology), and position papers in influential
journals (e.g. Nature Food). We nurture future leaders of interdisciplinary research through early
engagement with leadership (e.g. Gilra, Villa-Uriol and Christensen held roles in institutes as
lecturers), supported by schemes such as Sheffield Leader (Section 2.3).

Appointments in interdisciplinary areas. We recruit researchers with demonstrable ability to
work across disciplinary boundaries. Appointments have cemented our links with Neuroscience
(Alvarez, Gilra, Mangan, Wang), Neurology (Christensen), the NHS (Lanfranchi, Villa-Uriol),

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Cardiology (Lu) and Psychology (Prescott). Outcomes include interdisciplinary publications in top
venues (e.g. Nature Neuroscience) and £3.15m in collaborative grants.

Internal funding to support interdisciplinary research. We invested £800k in interdisciplinary
PhD studentships, and co-supervise students with 11 other departments. We organise events that
catalyse interdisciplinary collaborations, e.g. an ML workshop for the Faculty of Science. Resulting
outcomes include papers co-authored by PhD students in prestigious outlets (e.g. Nature Machine
Intelligence) and new collaborations with the Department of Chemistry. We also fund infrastructure
for interdisciplinary research (Section 3).

Research software engineering (RSE). We support a rapidly growing RSE group by underwriting
6 posts, an investment of £90k since 2014. The group underpins excellence in research software
across the University: in 2019/20, it supported 28 grants, with a total value exceeding £9m. In turn,
this leads to interdisciplinary collaborations: Richmond (head of RSE) holds interdisciplinary grants
totalling £1.4m, including projects on bone disease and tuberculosis vaccine development.

Our future strategy includes investment in these successful mechanisms and capitalising on our
strategic involvement in interdisciplinary institutes, which will benefit from the University’s recent
commitment to invest £13.7m in four flagship research institutes. We have leadership positions in
three of these and are forging links with the fourth (Energy) via our new appointment Gope.

1.4 Impact strategy, support mechanisms and outcomes

Our impact strategy promotes early engagement with end users of our research across each of our
four strategic themes to ensure that impact is embedded from project conception to dissemination.
The identification and development of impact opportunities are supported by an impact champion
(Cunningham), Faculty and University research support services, and the following mechanisms:

Joint appointments. These bridge us with key targets for translating research. Lanfranchi has a
joint appointment with the NHS, securing more than £400k in health-related grants in the last two
years. Law’s appointment with the Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre (AMRC) led to the
involvement of the AMRC in a UKRI TAS Verifiability Node.

Visiting academic appointments. Six industry figures facilitate connections that support research
impact. Collaboration with visiting academic Chakravarthy (Dstl) led to the foundation of a new
University Technology Centre for AI in Defence and Security.

Consultancy. Generous consulting and shared IP arrangements encourage staff to undertake
consultancy that can lead to larger impact opportunities. Since REF2014, consultancy income
exceeded £1.4m, involving 13 staff and 39 partners. These partners include SMEs such as
Elephant Gin (Law) and Alchemy Machines (Aletras) and large companies such as Samsung
(Ragni). The Large-Scale Data impact case study arose from consultancy contracts with Public
Health England (to develop the “Active 10” app) and JustGiving.

We proactively identify impactful research and support it via reduced workloads and impact
sabbaticals. Professional knowledge exchange colleagues assist industry engagement, both in the
Faculty (2 FTE) and in a central impact and knowledge exchange team (13.2 FTE). From the latter,
we received Impact Accelerator Account, HEIF and Commercialisation of IP funds of £311k in the
assessment period. Our RSE group is deployed to accelerate impact, supporting, e.g. our case
study Combatting Disinformation by rapid delivery of an online COVID-19 disinformation
dashboard.



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                      Figure 2: Impact pipeline

Our successful impact strategy is apparent from the quality and diversity of our selected case
studies, which range from influential research informing policymakers (Banning LAWS, Combating
Disinformation) to speech and language research that underpins the technology of VoiceBase,
Facebook and Microsoft (Automatic Voice Recognition, Machine Translation), and research on
analysing data at massive scales, which has impacted hundreds of thousands of people (Large-
Scale Data). Our successful impact pipeline is evidenced by many projects at various stages of
translation, e.g. working with South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation Trust, we used the
open-source GATE text engineering technology developed in our speech and language theme to
find a link between symptoms of schizophrenia described in a patient’s clinical records and the
likelihood of that patient being admitted to a hospital. In our bioinspired machine intelligence
theme, fundamental research on the visual system of the honeybee has been translated via
Opteran (Marshall). The company is pioneering bioinspired silicon-based solutions for computer
vision and autonomous decision making and has raised £2.1m in seed funding.

Existing case studies and new projects in our impact pipeline will provide the starting point for
developing our future impact agenda. Our centres funded by VoiceBase and Dstl will be crucibles
for translational research, further feeding our impact pipeline. Our impactful work on misinformation
will be supported by additional academic appointments.

1.5 Open research and research integrity

Research integrity is a fundamental component of research excellence. We uphold principles of
honesty, responsibility, fairness and accountability, supported by commitment from the institution,
our staff and postgraduate research (PGR) students. Our strategy for developing open research
and research integrity is based around the following three pillars:

Developing a culture of research integrity. We adopt an approach to research that is
underpinned by honesty and transparency and supported by rigorous methods and reporting
principles. Training is a key factor in achieving this. All PGR students and new staff complete a
course on Professional Behaviour and Ethical Conduct. We run an annual seminar on peer review,
targeted at PGR students and postdoctoral research assistants (PDRAs). All staff and PGR
students complete online training in unconscious bias and protecting research data. We ensure
that informed, auditable oversight of research integrity occurs in practice. Ethics, data governance
and research methodology are considered at all PGR progression/review points and in
probationary staff reviews. We maintain a panel of trained ethics reviewers, supported by a
bespoke online ethics approval system. Audits of our ethical approvals are undertaken by the
University Research Ethics Committee. Declarations of interest are systematically reviewed and


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
updated annually. Faculty approval is required for the appointment of PGR examiners, with due
regard to appropriate competence and independence. Finally, we seek to establish a culture in
which concerns about research integrity can be raised without fear of reprisal. A procedure for
whistleblowing is outlined (see REF5a); however, we emphasise that honesty is paramount.

Support for open access (OA). We ensure that publicly funded research is accessible to the
public, industry, and the wider academic community, and we adhere to University-wide principles
of OA. To ensure maximum discoverability of our research, we aim to put all outputs in White Rose
Research Online, our shared repository with Leeds and York (green route). The 1,463 outputs
deposited over the assessment period were downloaded over 99,000 times. This is our preferred
route, ensuring equity in publishing opportunities regardless of available funding; we also publish
outputs in fully OA journals, supported by a Departmental fund, or hybrid where required for funder
compliance. In addition, staff increasingly submit papers to preprint services such as arXiv to
ensure timely dissemination of research findings. Twenty staff have editorial roles in journals that
support open research.

Support for open data, open methods and open-source software. This support is the core of
reproducibility, being intimately linked to the culture of research integrity we seek. We publish
software and datasets to the community through our institutional data repository, ORDA. The
speech and language theme has been particularly active in sharing open data, including the
Lombard Grid, an audiovisual speech corpus, and CHiME, a series of ASR challenges. Our RSE
group supports a doctoral training module on software methodologies and tools, underpinning our
commitment to the reproducibility of results. We promote open training to the community, e.g. the
annual Gaussian Process Summer School (Lawrence, Alvarez, Smith) is a beacon of the open
approach to research training. The related GPy open-source framework for Gaussian Processes is
distributed through GitHub, with 431 users and 64 contributors.

Going forward, our strategy is to recognise and promote methodological excellence within our
research, e.g. by leveraging our capacity in RSE to support and educate staff and PGR students in
open research software. We will develop short courses in open data and software for research
locally and then make them available to the whole University as a beacon activity; Derrick’s
experience as chair of the University OA Advisory Group will facilitate this. We will also promote
awareness of the ethical requirements and practices of other disciplines. Lanfranchi is our ethics
lead and has a joint position with the NHS; she is well positioned to advise on research integrity
within the healthcare technologies theme, which increasingly involves clinical collaboration.

1.6 Strategic priorities for the next five years

Our ongoing strategy is to capitalise on our excellence and to grow our investment around our four
key themes. Priorities in the next five years are as follows:

Further develop collaborations in our strategic themes. Collaborations allow us to better
understand challenges and act as vehicles for a broad range of impact. These collaborations will
be facilitated by further growing our academic staff to 73 to enable theme, institute and end-user
collaborations while maintaining a balanced growth across the four themes. Our first priority is to
increase our capacity in machine vision, which will provide new opportunities for interaction with
Insigneo, CATCH and Sheffield Robotics. Collaborations benefit from Sheffield’s commitment to
invest £13.7m in four flagship research institutes, all of which we are linked to. Finally, we will
enhance collaborations with the AMRC and High Value Manufacturing Catapult through our
dependable and secure systems theme.



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Exploit and contribute to wider infrastructure and services. Significant opportunities for
leveraging infrastructure in areas of Sheffield’s strengths are the £43m Industry 4.0 investment in
the AMRC and the HPC provision at the Faculty, University and national levels. IT infrastructure
will benefit from a £10m University investment. A key aim will be to grow our HPC infrastructure at
the scale necessary to support our research in ML. To address this, we will seek collaborations
with other academic institutions and commercial cloud computing providers.

Revitalise and exploit our physical infrastructure. We plan to be in extended and refurbished
accommodation by the end of 2022, enabled by University investment of £10.5m. We will use this
opportunity to re-equip our groups, stimulate cross-group research and enhance the PGR student
environment. Our refurbished building will offer an improved environment for knowledge exchange
and external engagement, facilitating our future impact strategy, which stresses early and close
engagement with business, the public and the third sector.




 2. People


2.1 Overview

Our REF2014 plans have led to significant, strategic growth within our key themes. The
Department now has 55 academic staff, 2 academic fellows, 72 researchers; among those 2
academic fellows, 6 University teachers, 39 professional support staff, and 86 PGR students of
which 53 are Graduate Teaching Assistants (GTAs). Each theme is supported by a mixture of
senior research leaders, mid-career staff and early-career researchers (ECRs) with an excellent
trajectory.

We take great pride in fostering a friendly, collegial and nurturing research environment. Our
approach to staffing and recruitment is informed by deeply held EDI values, recognised through a
Silver Athena SWAN award. The University is in the top 100 of the Sunday Times Best Employers
List, is a Top 5% Stonewall employer and maintains an HR Excellence in Research Award and
Disability Confident accreditation.

2.2 Staffing and recruitment strategy

Our staffing and recruitment strategy ensures that we have the breadth and depth of research
excellence needed to address our research themes. Challenges have been to appoint outstanding
individuals in competitive areas (e.g. cybersecurity, ML) and to attract senior academics to
establish new groups and strengthen the leadership of existing groups.




                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                         Figure 3: People, staffing and recruitment strategy

We achieve these aims in two ways. Firstly, we develop a distinctive five-year support package for
ECRs, in the form of internally-funded proleptic fellowships. These offer guaranteed progression to
an open-ended academic position, subject to meeting standard probation requirements. Secondly,
we support new lecturers and professors with an attractive package including internally-funded
PGR studentships and a reduced teaching load for 2-3 years.

This strategy has been successful in attracting outstanding talent. Over the assessment period, we
appointed 2 fellows (1 female), 17 lecturers (5 female), 7 senior lecturers (1 female) and four
professors (1 female). These contribute to the excellence of our research themes as follows:

Speech and language. Research in multilinguality and cognitively motivated NLP was supported
by the appointment of Villavicencio to a personal chair. Three senior lecturers (Goetze, Barrault,
Lin) bring expertise in deep learning methods. Lectureship appointments Ragni and Aletras have
progressed rapidly, the latter winning £508k in grant income since appointment. We deployed an
internally-funded fellowship to recruit Scarton in the competitive area of machine translation. She
has already won a major grant (EPSRC £446k).

Healthcare technologies. We recruited Lanfranchi to a joint position with the NHS: she has
secured £547k in grants since appointment, many with clinical partners. Villa-Uriol and Yang bring
physiological modelling and machine learning expertise, cementing our links with Insigneo. Wang
is a joint appointment with Neuroscience and SITraN, bringing expertise in bioinformatics.
Christensen has developed extensive clinical collaborations through work on the assessment of
neurodegenerative disorders (Journal of Neurology) and secured an EU Marie Skłodowska-Curie
Training Network (TAPAS).

Bioinspired machine intelligence. Prescott was recruited to a chair to grow links with Sheffield
Robotics, where he is the Director. Lecturers Mangan and Sun bring expertise in bioinspired
robotics and machine vision. Research in core ML methods was strengthened through Alvarez and
Lu, who have earned £839k between them in grants, with both securing an EPSRC New
Investigator Award. Expertise in graph clustering was strengthened by Peng, who publishes in the
competitive SODA conference. Gilra’s work on recurrent spiking neural networks (eLife) cements
our links with the flagship Neuroscience Institute. A proleptic fellowship was used to attract Smith,
whose work on ML methods for pollution modelling is likely to become a future impact case study.

Dependable and secure systems. Clark was recruited to lead our new Security group, supported
by strategic University investment of £1.2m. The group now comprises 5 academics, 3 PDRAs and
10 PGR students. Appointments in the Security group bring expertise in cryptographic algorithms
(Kavun, Kaaniche), information flow security (Popescu) and internet-of-things (IoT) security
(Gope). Our expertise in model checking was bolstered by Ordyniak, who publishes in top venues
(e.g. Algorithmica). Leadership in testing was supported through the chair appointment of Hierons;

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
with new senior lecturer Walkinshaw he has won an EPSRC grant on causal inference for testing
computational models. Capacity in verification was increased by Beohar and Dimitrova, the latter
having expertise in hybrid systems and potential links with the AMRC.

All Category A staff are on open-ended contracts. We offer open-ended contracts to researchers
on fixed-term projects wherever appropriate, taking account of longer-term strategy and plans.
Currently 35% of researchers are on open-ended contracts (up from 24% in the last period).

Going forward, a plan has been developed with Faculty approval to grow our academic staff to 73
within 6 years. We will recruit a chair and two further lecturers in machine vision, supporting our
bioinspired machine intelligence and healthcare technologies themes. The dependable and secure
systems theme will be strengthened by a chair and two lectureships in distributed systems and an
additional lectureship in security. An internally-funded fellowship will support the pipeline of
researchers working on social media analysis in the speech and language theme.

2.3 Staff development and support

Our strategy is to provide support that enables high performance, agility, leadership, and
intellectual and professional development. During the assessment period, a particular focus has
been to support the progression of fellows to academic positions and to ensure that new
appointees and ECRs become well-embedded in the unit and rapidly progress.

The University’s Academic Career Pathways (ACP) framework provides a structure for academic
staff progression from early career to professorship. Research and impact are explicitly recognised
within the ACP framework, with appropriate expectations set to enable achievement to be
rewarded in terms of progression. All staff have an annual review meeting that focuses on career
planning and identifies ongoing training needs. Strong staff engagement with this process exists in
the Department (e.g. 97% of staff completed a review in 2019).

Supporting fellowships. Faculty professional services provide support by arranging mock
interview panels, and workloads are adjusted for those developing fellowship applications. In the
assessment period, seven of our staff held fellowships, three of which were ECRs (see below).
Bontcheva won an EPSRC Career Acceleration Fellowship while working part-time, and Specia
was awarded an ERC starting grant. In both cases, the fellowships supported work that led to an
impact case study. Marshall was awarded an ERC Consolidator grant and Clark held a Royal
Society Wolfson Research Merit Award.

Supporting the development of ECRs and PDRAs. We proactively mentor our ECRs to ensure
their retention and career progression, with close involvement of the Head of Department (HoD).
The success of this approach is exemplified by Oliveto and Richmond, who were initially supported
by Sheffield Vice-Chancellor Fellowships. Both were subsequently appointed to senior lecturer and
won EPSRC Early Career and RSE Fellowships respectively. Croucher won a second RSE
Fellowship and progressed to Head of Research Computing at the University of Leeds. An
extensive range of development modules is available to PDRAs, including courses on
entrepreneurship, research management, academic writing and media training. A professor and
EPSRC panel chair (Clark) runs a proposal-writing training module for ECRs and PDRAs.

Implementing the Concordat to support the career development of researchers. We have
mapped our activities against the Concordat and implement its principles through an induction
programme, annual reviews and away days for researchers. The latter covers topics such as
industry engagement, frequently with an invited speaker. The “Think Ahead” development



                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
programme, coordinated by a dedicated member of the University’s professional services team,
further promotes employment and professional development opportunities.

Supporting probationary staff. Probationary staff have a reduced teaching load for three years
(set as 50%, 70%, and 90% of normal load). New appointees have a mentor and devise a
probation plan with the HoD. They meet monthly with the HoD/Deputy HoD during the probation
period. This close mentoring approach is successful: all 10 staff who completed probation
exceeded their grant income target of £130k, with a mean grant income of £344k. Half of these
staff completed probation a year early.

Developing future leaders. Research groups are typically led by a professor. In some cases
group heads are new senior appointments (Clark, Hierons), but in most cases future leaders are
developed from existing staff (e.g. Bontcheva, Hain), with a succession pipeline supported by
departmental mentors or institutional programmes such as Sheffield Leader. Twenty-six staff
participated in these programmes (11 female, 15 male) and have gone on to assume major
leadership roles within the Department (e.g. group heads, HoD, Director of Research) and in the
wider University (Christensen is Faculty Director of EDI; Derrick is Vice President for the Faculty of
Science).

2.4 Support and reward for research and impact

Research and impact are rewarded through the ACP framework, which sets out transparent
expectations to achieve career progression. In the assessment period 23 staff were promoted,
including 6 to personal chairs (3 women), which reflects the high quality of our staff, our robust
processes for supporting career progression, and our readiness to recognise and reward
achievement in research as well as broader contributions in leadership, professional standing and
wider engagement.

Sabbaticals allow one semester of leave after seven and are allocated according to a rolling
schedule, looking several years ahead. Part-time staff take study leave on a pro-rata basis.
Notable outcomes of 15 sabbaticals in the assessment period include the following: McMinn
developed a new relationship with Facebook, leading to a £41k grant on search-based testing;
Sudholt published four journal papers (Artificial Intelligence, Algorithmica, IEEE TEC) and four
conference papers (GECCO); Prescott visited the Sage Centre for the Study of the Mind at the
University of California Santa Barbara as Distinguished Fellow, leading to a co-authored article
(Trends in Neuroscience); and Hain visited the Nagoya Institute of Technology as Visiting
Professor, leading to a student exchange and collaboration on a grant proposal. We also fund
shorter research visits that are likely to lead to high-quality outputs, e.g. Struth’s visit to Macquarie
University and Data61 in Sydney led to two collaborative papers on quantitative information flow.

We keep teaching and administrative loads in balance through a workload allocation model so that
time for research and impact is protected. We also support research through spending on
teaching-specialist staff; since 2014, we have appointed 6 university teachers (two were funded
through a £1m Institute of Coding grant) and increased spending on GTAs from £31k in 2014/15 to
£90k in 2019/20.

2.5 Support for postgraduate research students

Our strategy is to create a diverse community of PGR students with a broad range of specialist
skills and intellectual perspectives. We aim to attract the brightest PGR students from the UK and
internationally, driving recruitment with internally-funded scholarships (£3m over the assessment
period) and through our CDT, which will sponsor 60 PGRs over 2019-2027. We attract diverse
                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
candidates by advertising widely and support self-funded applicants where possible (e.g. via partial
fee scholarships). Our success is evidenced by a diverse cohort (13% EU and 59% international
representing 38 countries) and PGRs with first-authored papers in top journals (e.g. Paetzold,
Journal of AI Research; Mirheidari, Computer Speech & Language; Osuna, IEEE Transactions on
Evolutionary Computation).

Supporting progression

All PGRs are assigned a primary supervisor, an independent advisor from the same research
group and a panel chair from a different group. We supplement University-required annual reviews
with six monthly panel meetings, enabling clear and timely oversight of progress. For students
registering in 2015/16, 89% submitted within their four-year time limit. A 2019 Postgraduate
Research Experience survey showed high overall satisfaction (82%), with positive responses for
supervision (86%), skills development (89%) and resources (85%).

Skills training and preparation for future careers

All PGR students complete training courses in research integrity, teamwork and presentation skills
and must formulate a data management plan. Each student has a dedicated workspace and
desktop computer and an allowance of £1,500 for conference participation. Outcomes include
numerous prizes for presentations at international conferences (e.g. Ge, International Symposium
on Search-Based Software Engineering 2017; Naith, International Conference on Crowd Science
and Engineering 2018).

We build connections with potential employers through industry talks, engagement with visiting
professors (e.g. Leidner, Thomson-Reuters), collaboration with our CDT sponsors (e.g. Amazon,
NHS Digital) and internships (e.g. Apple, Microsoft, Baidu, Google, Electronic Arts). Success is
evidenced by the breadth of professional careers that our PGRs pursue after graduation, including
postdoctoral positions (e.g. Loweimi, Edinburgh; Armstrong, Cambridge; Rabehaja, Macquarie)
and fellowships (Richmond, EPSRC RSE Fellowship). Several have progressed to lectureships,
e.g. Usman (UET Lahore), Roberts (KCL), Alharbi (King Saud University). Derczynski and
Augenstein hold professorships at the University of Copenhagen, with Augenstein leading the NLP
group (line managing 44 people). Our PGRs have taken up significant roles in tech startups (e.g.
Mokharam, EmoTech) and have been employed by industry leaders (e.g. Gomes, Amazon;
Doulaty, Facebook).

2.6 Equality, diversity, and inclusion

Our strategy is to ensure that our practices in recruitment, staff support and career development
fully harness a diverse pool of talent, enabling us to advance our research themes. We implement
this strategy by embedding EDI throughout departmental processes. All staff undertake
unconscious bias training; a gender balance is ensured in all committees and appointment panels;
and search committees seek applicants from underrepresented groups. The University has an
active Disability Staff Network. Positive responses in the 2018 University Staff Survey confirm that
the Department recognises and values diversity and difference (97%). Over the assessment
period, we appointed eight women to academic (lecturing or fellowship) positions.

Addressing gender equality. Our active engagement with Athena SWAN has led to both Bronze
(2013) and a Silver (2016) awards. Through our action plan, mentoring by the HoD and the
University’s peer mentoring scheme, we have been successful in improving gender equality in our
pipeline from ECR to professor. We had 23 promotions, of which 6 were female. We increased the
number of female professors from zero in 2014 to four over the assessment period, three of whom

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
were promoted from within the Department. Currently women account for 36% of lecturers, 22% of
senior lecturers/readers/advanced fellows and 17% of professors. Female academics have
obtained £8.6m in external funding since 2014, generating 27% of our research income. This
statistic is impressive, given that three women were recent appointments (<1y) and that, prior to
2016, none were professors. Female senior leaders include our Director of Research, two research
group heads, the Faculty Director of EDI and other leaders in the wider University.

Eliminating discrimination and promoting diversity. We are a proudly multicultural department
with 32 international academic staff of which 22 were appointed during the assessment period.
Firmly embedding EDI principles in our recruitment processes has led to an increased proportion of
BAME staff; with 25% of staff self-reporting as BAME. We are committed to supporting our
LGBTQ+ staff and PGRs, as evidenced by the University’s Stonewall Top 100 Employers position
for seven years running. We actively support different lifestyles, for example we have flexible
arrangements for a number of academics with partners in different cities. In our most recent staff
survey, 96% of staff agreed that they could talk openly with their line manager about flexible
working. We offer targeted help to staff and PGRs with protected characteristics (e.g. changes in
working pattern to accommodate disabilities). Support for international staff includes flexibility with
overseas working, which was particularly important during the COVID-19 pandemic.

Supporting mental health and neurodiversity. The Faculty has a wellbeing officer who provides
expert one-to-one support and signposting to students, including PGRs. We plan to further buttress
this support with a dedicated wellbeing officer for the Department. We are liaising with IBM on their
industry-leading work in neurodiversity to gain greater insight into practices for recruiting and
supporting neurodiverse staff; this has informed our ongoing Athena SWAN action plan.

Parental leave and childcare. In addition to statutory maternity, adoption and shared parental
leave, staff on leave can elect to perform up to 10 days of paid work without loss of statutory pay
(‘keeping-in-touch’ days). Since 2014, 12 staff members have taken parental leave. All staff taking
parental leave remained in employment with the Department after 18 months. One staff member
received an award of £10k through the University’s Women Academic Returners’ Programme
(WARP), which provides financial support for women to mitigate the impact of extended leave on
research.

Equality and diversity issues in the preparation of this REF submission. In accordance with
the University Code of Practice, four principles were applied throughout all stages of our
submission: transparency, consistency, accountability and inclusivity. Staff with a leading role in
our REF submission (3 males, one female) have undertaken unconscious bias training; output
selection was overseen by a female academic. The selection of outputs was guided by anonymous
internal and external reviewers. Subsequent validation showed that we had not introduced
significant gender bias in the selection of outputs. 40% of our impact case studies are led by
women (20% of academic staff are women).




 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


3.1 Overview

We ensure that our four research themes are well supported through income capture,
infrastructure provision and access to facilities. A particular focus has been to diversify our support
base by increasing our UKRI and industry funding. This diversification reflects opportunities: the

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
synergy between UKRI funding priorities (Industrial Strategy, Made Smarter), industry demand for
our research (in areas such as SLT), and growth in our research strengths and ambitions.
Diversification was also a response to the challenge of uncertainty regarding UK participation in EU
research schemes. The key outcomes are an increase in grant income from £18.8m in the last
period to £32.5m and more than doubling industry income from £875k to £2.1m.

Our underlying strategy has been multi-pronged. We have actively recruited in areas of strategic
importance, making professorial appointments to enhance leadership and appointments to fill gaps
in our expertise (see Section 2.2). This has ensured sustainability of funding across our research
themes. We have sought and achieved positions of leadership in major grants (e.g. EPSRC
programme grants, fellowships, coordination of EU grants). Time for research and impact is
protected through investment in teaching-specialist posts, sabbaticals and funded short-term study
leave (see Section 2.4).

Appointing staff with interdisciplinary profiles has created opportunities for new funding streams
(e.g. Rosetrees Trust). Our interdisciplinary collaborations allow us to leverage a wide range of
facilities across the University. We leverage and contribute to HPC provision across the University
and through national initiatives such as JADE. This reflects the increasing importance of HPC to
the ML interests of almost all of our research groups.

3.2 Income

Research grant capture. Our research income increased from £18.8m (REF2014) to £32.5m, with
UK, EU, and industry funding in each of our four strategic themes. We have been highly successful
in obtaining EU funding; this reflects the international and multidisciplinary nature of our work and
the close alignment of our strengths with EU and UK priorities. We grew our EU funding from less
than £10m (REF2014) to £15.4m. We collaborated with leading European scientists on 39 EU-
funded projects, involving 177 universities, 92 companies and 85 charities, and coordinated 5
FP7/Horizon 2020 grants (PROWESS, WeSenseIT, Pheme, CONTESSA, SETA). We achieved
diversification of our grant capture: 56% of our funding was from non-EU sources, an increase from
49%. UKRI funding increased from £6.5m to £12.4m. Income from charities was £717k, including
grants from the British Heart Foundation, Wellcome Trust, Rosetrees Trust and Alzheimer’s
Society. 62% of our submitted papers came from funded projects, as did four of our impact case
studies. New staff have been responsible for £6.8m in external funding and approximately 50% of
our outputs.

Large grant leadership. Leadership in all four of our themes is demonstrated by major single
grant awards, reflecting the excellence of senior research leaders within the groups. In the
bioinspired machine intelligence theme Marshall leads a collaborative EPSRC programme grant,
Brains on Board: (£4.8m, £2.2m to Sheffield). This was supported by a lecturer appointment
(Mangan). Outputs from the grant include interdisciplinary papers in top journals (e.g. Proceedings
of the Royal Society Series B) and a spin-out company (Opteran). In the dependable and secure
systems theme, Clark leads the £4.9m Research England IoT innovation project PITCH-IN, a
collaboration with Oxford, Cambridge, and Newcastle. In the speech and language theme, Hain
held the EPSRC Natural Speech Technology programme grant, which laid the foundation for our
CDT and VoiceBase centre.

Fellowships. Fellowship income totalled £5.1m. An ERC Starting Grant to Specia (£1.2m) led to
an impact case study on machine translation, which underpins technology used by Facebook and
Microsoft. A £1.2m ERC Consolidator Grant to Marshall funded his research on bioinspired
robotics, leading to a programme grant (see above) and first-authored interdisciplinary publications


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
in competitive outlets, e.g. eLife. Richmond and Croucher won 2 of the 7 awards in the first round
of the EPSRC Research Software Engineering Fellowships. Richmond has since established a
team of 12 people (see Section 3.3); Croucher progressed to Head of Research Computing at the
University of Leeds. Oliveto won an EPSRC Early Career Fellowship for his work on the rigorous
runtime analysis of bioinspired computing (£1.3m). Over the assessment period, he published over
50 papers in, e.g. Theoretical Computer Science and IEEE Transactions on Evolutionary
Computation.

New appointees. We support new appointees with dedicated grant writing workshops. EPSRC
First Grant/New Investigator Awards were obtained by Vlachos (non-monotonic incremental
language processing), Alvarez (one-shot learning of human motion), Lu (sparse features for fMRI
analysis) and Ordyniak (parameterized algorithms).

Industry income. This increased from £875k (REF2014) to £2.1m. Notable achievements include
two new industry-funded centres, with funding totalling £1.4m. The Silicon Valley company
VoiceBase funds a centre employing 12 people to support Hain’s research in ASR. A Dstl-funded
University Technology Centre for AI in Defence and Security was established in 2020. Staff have
been successful in obtaining research funding from tech companies, a total of £510k in the
assessment period from Amazon, Google, and Microsoft, e.g. a Google award to Barker supported
his work on the influential series of CHiME ASR challenges.

PGR income. Our reputation for research excellence makes us an attractive environment for PGR
students; since 2014 our PGR base has expanded by 25%. We have strategically invested our
own funds in PGR scholarships to support new staff and major grants; since 2014 we spent ~£3m
and have committed £3.35m over the next 5 years. We were awarded a UKRI CDT in Speech and
Language Technologies, which will train 60 PGRs over 2019-2027. This award provided leverage
for investment in staff within our speech and language theme, with the subsequent appointment of
Barrault, Goetze, Lin, Ragni, Scarton and Villavicencio. The CDT has significantly grown our
industry connections, leading to collaborative funding from Amazon Research, Google, Microsoft
Research, NHS Digital and others. We participate in the EU Marie Skłodowska-Curie ITN TAPAS
(Christensen, Barker, £454k) and NeuTouch (Prescott, £248k).

By diversifying our support base and building connections across disciplines and with external
partners, we are well positioned to respond quickly and flexibly to changing priorities and
opportunities. A recent illustration is Lu’s success in winning a highly competitive US National
Institutes for Health AI in Health and Care Award in 2020 (< 8% success rate, £504k) that brought
together our ML expertise with clinical expertise from Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust.

3.3 Infrastructure and facilities

Our growth in staff numbers is matched by investment in infrastructure and facilities, ensuring that
our themes are well supported to generate excellent research and significant impact. Key
investments during the assessment period are highlighted below.

High-performance computing. Our strategy is both to fully exploit the extensive HPC facilities
provided by the University and to further contribute to them. We maintain a server room for
specialist equipment but increasingly we are investing in additional nodes for the central HPC
clusters Bessemer, ShARC and Iceberg. Together, these provide 350 worker nodes, 6500 CPU
cores, 49 TB of RAM, 60 GPUs and 1425 TB of fast network storage. 313 members of our staff
and PGR students have accounts for these HPC facilities. We supplemented University investment
in HPC facilities with £480k of equipment, in addition to £800k spent on large-memory nodes and
GPUs for ML. Recognising the increasing importance of deep learning, particularly for our speech

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and language and bioinspired machine intelligence themes, we provide a significant number of
state-of-the-art GPUs to individuals (eight in 2019) and our CDT (three 6GB NVIDIA Titan cards).
We were the first UK university to purchase an NVIDIA DGX-1, an accelerated platform for deep
learning. We are part of a consortium that has access to the JADE Tier 2 GPU cluster, designed
for the needs of machine learning and related data science applications; this also supports work on
machine translation. Going forward, a University £10m plan to deliver a new Research IT and
Innovation Strategy has been agreed upon.

Sheffield Robotics. Our close collaboration with Sheffield Robotics and links to the AMRC
provides access to a wide range of specialised equipment and facilities. In addition to the 200m 2
Sheffield Robotics lab, a human-robot interaction lab (17m2), a motion capture lab (60m2), two
hangars (400m2) and a workshop (40m2) are available. Equipment includes Kilobots (Marshall on
the DIODE project); KUKA iiwa (Law and Gaizauskas, EPSRC Network Plus Connected
Everything project); Jaguar 4x4 rovers, Griffon dynamics Octocopters, and DJI Phantom 4 (Law,
EPSRC UK-RAS Field Robotics Challenge 2016); iCub (Prescott, Horizon 2020 WYSIWYD and
Cyberselves projects); 3D printers (Marshall, Green Brain and Brains on Board projects) and
dedicated technical support (2 FTE). Sheffield Robotics has won over £1.5m in EPSRC capital
awards since 2014, and we supported it with an additional £0.9m for staff and equipment.

Research software engineering. Our RSE group, one of the largest in the UK, grew from 2 FTE
in 2016 to 11 FTE. The group largely sustains itself on grant income, but together with central IT
services we underwrite posts to offer staff job security and so to ensure retention. They have been
instrumental in producing software usable by stakeholders, e.g. a web service for fact-checking
used by journalists was developed (Rumour Analysis Service (RAS) project, funded by the Google
Digital News Initiative and WeVerify, Bontcheva), and they are critical to our reproducibility strategy
(see Section 1.5). The team contributes widely to the national RSE agenda through guidance for
reproducible research (via The Turing Way with ATI), national training for HPC (via Software
Sustainability Institute fellowships and HPC carpentry), and leadership (via a Future RSE Leaders
workshop and an RSE Leaders panel) and includes two of the twelve members of the Board of
Trustees of the Society of Research Software Engineering.

Facilities for specific research clusters. We have an apiary and a beekeeper to support the
Brains on Board project and invested £50k to start the Security group (specialist forensics
equipment, oscilloscopes, and experimental robotics). Involvement in University interdisciplinary
research centres and flagship institutes gives access to specialised equipment, such as the
CATCH “home lab”, an instrumented living space for supporting research on disabilities, e.g.
dementia (Christensen). Lanfranchi’s joint appointment with the NHS has resulted in access to
clinical facilities, feeding into over £600k of grant funding. Wang’s work is supported by secure
computing facilities provided by Genomics England, leading to two grants (over £900k). SANO
(see Section 1.3) provides HPC infrastructure to support computational medicine research.

Technical and research support staff. Our technicians (12 FTE) support software and hardware
technologies, including a dedicated server room. Since 2014, the expansion of our robotics
activities within the bioinspired machine intelligence theme necessitated the appointment of a
dedicated safety officer. The Faculty has established a pipeline of technical staff through the
Engineering Apprenticeship Scheme, in which apprentices rotate around departments before
settling into an open-ended position. The result is technical staff with well-rounded expertise, able
to provide software and hardware support. We invested £29k in the training of technical support
staff. Our research support team (8 FTE) assists the development of funding bids and grant
management and identifies potential industrial collaborators. A further 6 FTE provide professional
support to specific projects and the CDT.

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Diamond. Completed in 2015 at a cost of £81m (19,500m 2), the Diamond is the largest capital
investment ever made by the University. Within this, the MindSphere Lounge provides a
collaboration and IoT demonstration space for the University, Siemens and local business (Clark is
the academic lead). The iForge maker space provides 3D printing, CNC and laser cutting and is
available to all staff and PGRs (e.g. for the construction of bespoke hardware).

Research laboratories. Our main office space and research laboratories are in the Regent Court
building. We strategically maintain offices in multidisciplinary spaces, which encourages
collaboration and provides additional space for equipment (e.g., Sheffield Robotics). A key part of
our ongoing infrastructure strategy is to refurbish Regent Court (an estimated cost of £10.5m plus
£1.5m for a student innovation hub). The overall space will increase by 35% and meeting space
will increase by over 50%. The refurbishment will enhance our facilities for collaborative research
(e.g. informal working spaces, a large social area, breakout rooms) and opportunities for
engagement with the end users of our research (e.g. demonstration spaces).




 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


4.1 Overview

Our strategy to facilitate collaborations and widespread impact depends on the creation of an
environment for excellent research: we ensure that our researchers have the necessary time and
support to develop significant collaborations at the international, national and regional levels. The
previous sections outlined our pipeline for translating fundamental research into real-world impact
(Section 1.4) and described our staffing strategy (Section 2) and underpinning infrastructure
investment (Section 3.3). Here, we highlight the major outcomes arising from our strategy and
actions.

4.2 Research collaboration

Much of our most impactful work arises from sustained, often interdisciplinary, collaborations. 84%
of research outputs produced during the assessment period involved collaborators from a different
discipline or university. 83 research grants involved an industrial partner or another university.

International collaboration. International best-with-best collaborative projects facilitate world-
leading research. We collaborated on 44 EU projects and coordinated 5 EU FP7/Horizon 2020
grants totalling over £3.3M. We also collaborate with a range of international companies and have
received nearly £2M in funding from them. Examples include VoiceBase, BioGen, Amazon and
Microsoft. Collaborations are also sustained through our involvement in international centres.
ActiveAI brings together world leaders in entomology, neuroscience, biorobotic modelling and
computational neuroscience to develop new algorithms for robust and efficient learning for
autonomous robotics. SANO (see Section 1.3) is funded by the EU and Polish government and
Clayton is on the Scientific Committee.

We also support individual collaborations: our internationally leading research has attracted 99
visitors from 26 countries. Visits of our staff to international collaborators include world-class
institutions such as the University of Pittsburgh, Indian Institute of Science Bangalore, ETH Zürich,
University of Zürich, KTH Royal Institute of Technology Stockholm, and Yale University.



                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Approximately 60% of our submitted outputs had an international co-author, with 40% externally
funded and 20% stemming from individual collaborations .

National and regional collaboration. Since 2014, our staff held grants of £15.2m with 40 UK
academic collaborators. Of our papers, 12% have been co-authored with other UK universities.
Programme grants have been effective at establishing long-term collaborations with national
academic partners, e.g. Natural Speech Technology (Hain, EPSRC £6.2m) supported a
collaboration with Edinburgh and Cambridge, leading to significant growth in our speech and
language theme and ultimately to our CDT.

Within the Sheffield Region our work with Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust led to further
NHS collaborations (Sheffield Children's Hospital, Rotherham General Hospital). Outcomes include
technologies for remote healthcare monitoring and the early detection of conditions, e.g. diabetic
retinopathy, funded by 7 projects totalling £331k (Lanfranchi, Villa-Uriol). We collaborate with
Sheffield mobility-tracking company The Floow, funded by the EU SETA project (Ciravegna,
£1.03m), and HumanStudio on virtual/augmented reality for digital heritage (Maddock, funded by
the AHRC and leading to a Festival of the Mind exhibit; see below).

4.3 Engagement with key research users, beneficiaries, and audiences

Our strategy is to identify key research users aligned with our four research themes and engage
with them through collaborative research projects, technology centres, joint appointments, spin-out
companies, our CDT and our industrial advisory board (IAB). Key users include IT companies and
the industrial sector, the NHS, education, and policymakers. Our impact pipeline (Section 1.4)
plays a crucial role in sustaining long-term, productive engagements with key research users.

Within the speech and language theme, engagement has been driven by strong commercial
demand for our SLT research. Our ASR technology adds $120m to the value of VoiceBase
(Automatic Voice Recognition impact case study). Automatic translations in Facebook are
underpinned by our research on quality assessment for machine translation (Machine Translation
case study). ZOO Digital joined our IAB and is now co-developing technology for dubbing video
content through an Innovate UK grant (MAUDIE, £314k). Initially attracted by the CDT, Huawei are
now supporting SLT research with a further £700k in funding.

The healthcare technologies theme engages with key research users (NHS, Public Health
England) through research projects, some of which have been catalysed through a joint
appointment with Sheffield Teaching Hospitals (Lanfranchi). Ciravegna’s work on mobility tracking
led to an impact case study and a spin-out company, Aeqora Ltd. Brown’s work with SME Passion
for Life Healthcare (PFLH) demonstrates how engagement with research users enriches our
research. A discussion with PFLH suggested that methods developed in our Department could be
applied to the acoustic monitoring and diagnosis of sleep disorders, which led to our first
Knowledge Transfer Partnership award and a growing research stream on the health applications
of acoustic monitoring, supported by a PFLH-funded PGR studentship and a subsequent Innovate
UK grant (BRAHMS, £243k).

In the bioinspired machine intelligence theme, a key beneficiary of Prescott’s research is the
education sector: his work on bioinspired robot control is embedded in the MiRo robot, marketed
through Consequential Robotics Ltd. Approximately 400 units have been sold to schools and
universities. Working with researchers in Uganda, Smith has contributed ML expertise to a project
that has rolled out 70 low-cost pollution monitoring stations across Kampala, engaging schools,
businesses, civil society organisations and citizens.


                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
In the dependable and secure systems theme a key audience is the advanced manufacturing
community. A joint appointment with the Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre (Law) led to
the involvement of AMRC in a TAS Verifiability Node (Hierons), engagement in the security of
manufacturing robotics (AAIP CSI:Cobot, Clark) and a jointly funded PhD studentship (Popescu).
The University has a dedicated account manager for Siemens; this facilitated the opening of the
first MindSphere Lounge in Sheffield and the involvement of Siemens in PITCH-IN (see Section
3.2), which addresses IoT across manufacturing, health, energy, and cities. Research on the
security of energy systems with our Department of Civil and Structural Engineering, supported by
the EPSRC £34m Active Building Construction project, provides further opportunities for
stakeholder engagement.

4.4 Wider contributions to the economy and society

Strategic investment in Faculty marketing resource (14 FTE) enabled us to raise the profile of our
research, leading to influence on policy makers. The high media profile of Bontcheva’s work on
fake news led to policy work with the UK government (DCMS report on social media
disinformation) and UNESCO (report on COVID-19 disinformation). Our research on the ethics of
autonomous weapons has influenced policy within the UN and non-government organisations such
as the Campaign to Stop Killer Robots (Banning LAWS impact case study).

We achieve broad contributions to the economy through the provision of open-source software.
Our GATE text engineering platform is used by Oracle, the BBC, the Press Association and
Euromoney. FLAME GPU, a high-performance framework for agent-based modelling, allowed
Atkins to achieve an order of magnitude speedup in transport simulations. We expect these
advances to be incorporated into the Atkins software used by Highways England.

Our research contributes to public health, both internationally and nationally. Clayton has co-
authored a research agenda for uncertainty in computational models of cardiac physiology with
regulatory scientists from the US Food and Drug Administration. During the COVID-19 pandemic,
we were agile and responsive. Working with colleagues from four Chinese universities, Yang
published a feasibility study of mitigation and suppression strategies for COVID-19. Richmond led
a national development team working on COVID-19 modelling to inform the Royal Society RAMP
initiative, the Scientific Pandemic Influenza Group on Modelling (SPI-M) and the Scottish
government. Wang contributed to an effort that sequenced more than 1,000 COVID-19 genome
sequences, uploading them to the COVID-19 Genomics UK (COG-UK) Consortium and helping
researchers around the world to fight the pandemic.

4.5 Engagement with diverse communities and the public through research

We engage citizens in our research through participatory design studies. Examples include an
AHRC-funded grant in which a group of cochlear-implanted users co-developed materials for
conversational training (Brown) and patient involvement in developing technology to diagnose
diabetic retinopathy (Lanfranchi, Villa-Uriol).

Close engagement has been established with the arts around AI, visualisation and sound. Brown
collaborates with the rock band Reverend and the Makers on AI methods for music generation,
supported by HEIF funding of £54k. This collaboration was featured in Sheffield’s Sensoria festival
and led to the foundation of a new AI record label. The biennial Festival of the Mind, has engaged
approximately 103,000 people to date. We have provided exhibits that engage the public in our
robotics research (Prescott), virtual and augmented reality (Maddock), and sentiment analysis



                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(Stevenson). Outside of this festival, our staff regularly engage in “pint of science” pub talks and
other events, numbering over 70 in the assessment period.

We have achieved extensive media engagement over the assessment period. Sharkey is a strong
voice in the debate on the ethics of robotics, AI and data science with frequent media contributions
including The Guardian, BBC News and the New York Times. Lawrence wrote 11 articles for The
Guardian on topics relating to the ethics of AI, open data science and data privacy, shared more
than 1500 times via social media and other news outlets. Marshall’s work on biomimetic robotics
has engaged audiences in bee behaviour (BBC Click) and drone delivery (Financial Times, Daily
Mail).

We are passionate about engaging young audiences in our research. We host the UK-RAS School
Robotics Competition and offered more than 28 talks and events addressed to a school audience
over the assessment period. Prescott’s interdisciplinary research at the boundary of psychology,
neuroscience and robotics has engaged children through the Cyberselves Roadshow and Norwich
Science Festival.

4.6 Academic leadership and contribution to the sustainability of the discipline

Through our strategy, we are well placed to contribute to the sustainability of the discipline. An
example is research by Marshall, Vasilaki and Mangan within our bioinspired machine intelligence
theme, which promises next-generation AI systems that match insect performance in tasks such as
vision and navigation and are power efficient due to having lower computational requirements. We
are well placed to develop this theme, with more than £8.9m in funding in place and a route to
translation through spin-out Opteran.

We actively engage in setting the national agenda. Prescott and Law have co-authored EPSRC
UK-RAS white papers on robotics in social care and manufacturing robotics, which have been
influential in setting EPSRC priorities. Our robotics activity makes us well prepared to respond to
initiatives such as the Made Smarter Review, which identified Sheffield Robotics as a “significant
contributor and innovator in global robotics research” (p. 66). By growing our healthcare
technologies and dependable and secure systems themes (13 new appointments, see Section
2.2), we have strengthened our research base in areas related to AI and data science for health
and to Industry 4.0. This puts us in a strong position to respond to developments in the Industrial
Strategy. Our RSE group contributes to the sustainability of the discipline by advocating excellence
in research software engineering practice through Richmond’s leadership positions in the Software
Sustainability Institute and the Society of Research Software Engineers (see Section 3.3).

We provide leadership through international steering groups and advisory boards. Six of our staff
hold such roles. For example, Vasilaki advises the AI Centre at the University of Mainz, Germany.
Prescott leads a UK-RAS strategic task group on robotics, involving 14 organisations spanning
universities, professional societies and the private sector. Lawrence has been a member of the AI
Council since it was founded in 2019, an independent expert committee advising the government
and high-level leaders of the AI ecosystem.

Our staff are active members and leaders of national research networks. We led two EPSRC
networks (HealTex, POEMS) and participated in 12 others. Hierons is on the BCS-FACS
committee and acts as their representative on the LMS Computer Science Committee. Since 2007,
Struth has co-organised the Midlands Graduate School (MGS) in the Foundations of Computing
Science, involving the Universities of Sheffield, Leicester, Nottingham, and Birmingham. Moore
and Hain make significant contributions to international leadership of the SLT community as board
members of the International Speech Communication Association (ISCA).

                                                                                               Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Gaussian Process Summer School, run by Lawrence and Alvarez since 2013, has become a
staple of PGR training and attracts industry delegates from Amazon, Spotify, JPMorgan, Siemens
Gamesa etc. Data Science Africa, an annual series of workshops led by Lawrence and Smith since
2015, has brought together academic and industry experts in data science and ML to deliver
research training across Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Nigeria, Ghana and Ethiopia.

Our staff make outstanding contributions to international science publications. They hold 20
editorial positions, including 3 Editor-in-Chief positions, e.g. Moore is editor-in-chief of Computer
Speech and Language, a key journal in the area of SLT. During the assessment period, 33 of our
staff were involved in organising conferences, with 17 acting as Programme Chair. Lawrence was
General Chair of the influential NeurIPS conference (2015) and Hain was Technical Chair of the
Interspeech conference (2019).

12 of our staff provided leadership as full members of the EPSRC college, three of which are
associate members. 9 colleagues sat on grant panels, 4 as chair. Vasilaki and Clark were in the
top 6% of college members for participating in peer review activities during the academic year
2017/18. Our staff were external examiners for theses and habilitations in more than 40 institutions
across 11 countries, including several prestigious universities (e.g. Sorbonne, Oxford, Cambridge,
La Sapienza).

The esteem and success of our staff are reflected by the award of many prizes and honours,
including 24 keynotes/invited talks and 7 fellowships since REF2014. Hain was elected a Fellow of
the ISCA, and Moore is a Distinguished ISCA Lecturer. 14 staff members are members or fellows
of professional societies.

We are immensely proud of our contributions to computer science, our productive engagement
with the end users of our research, and our success in communicating our exciting findings to the
public. Since 2014 our growth has delivered an outstanding complement of staff and increased our
momentum. With a clear strategic plan, we are well placed to build on our strengths over the next
decade and make further significant contributions to the discipline, economy and society.




                                                                                              Page 22
