Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Strathclyde

 Unit of Assessment: 10

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

The Department of Mathematics and Statistics at the University of Strathclyde conducts cutting-edge
research into practically relevant problems that arise in a wide range of real-world applications. Our
research and impact activities fully align with the University’s long-standing mission to be “A Place
of Useful Learning”. Our research is structured into focused research groups (Figure 1), each with
key themes that link to our main research objectives and are in line with the research strategies of
the Faculty and University. This structure greatly assists in supporting collaboration with other
disciplines, attracting research funding, diversifying and sustaining our research activities, and
attracting high-calibre staff passionate about our research ambitions. While each group organises
its own schedule of meetings and seminars which complement Departmental activities, there is
considerable overlap between their research activities, and collaboration between groups is actively
encouraged.

 Figure 1. Mathematics and Statistics Research Groups
       Health and Ecology              Continuum Mechanics and                      Analysis
            Modelling                   Industrial Mathematics
    (Head: Robertson, 9.5 FTE)           (Head: Wilson, 10 FTE)              (Head: Mao, 13.6 FTE)

   •Health Statistics                 •Fluid Mechanics                   •Applied Analysis
   •Mathematical Ecology              •Liquid Crystals                   •Numerical Analysis
                                      •Wave Propagation                  •Stochastic Analysis



Health and Ecology Modelling (Head: Robertson, 9.5 FTE)
The research conducted in this group relates directly to the University’s strategic research themes
in Health & Wellbeing and Society & Policy. Within these themes, the group is making an important
contribution to the sub-themes of Healthcare Systems and Ecosystem Stewardship, joining forces
with research centres and groups across the University to focus on improving understanding of
complex societal challenges, supporting decision making, and driving business and economic
growth.

Health Statistics: Ensuring a healthy population is one of the biggest challenges facing society
today. Activity in Health Statistics contributes to minimising the impact of infectious diseases and
emerging zoonotic diseases, through vaccination strategies, understanding the transmission and
intervention strategies for plant health, and modelling the risks to society from infections from animals
entering the food chain. One distinctive aspect of this work comes from strong and long-standing
strategic links with external public health agencies such as Health Protection Scotland, NHS Greater
Glasgow and Clyde, and the Animal and Plant Health Agency (APHA). The group benefits
immensely by having academic staff (Robertson and Kelly) embedded within these agencies on a
part-time basis, enabling synergy between research strategies and promoting multidisciplinary
research in public, animal and plant health. A pertinent example is Robertson’s membership of the
Scottish Government Covid-19 Advisory Group which has reported directly to the Chief Medical
Officer (Scotland) since April 2020. Health Statistics researchers are also closely linked with the
Pharmaco-epidemiology and Health Care research group in the Strathclyde Institute of Pharmacy
and Biomedical Sciences (SIPBS), with their contributions being crucial to the successful bids for
significant funding from the Scottish Healthcare Associated Infection Prevention Institute (Robertson

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
PI), the Cancer Medicines Outcome Programme (Robertson co-I), and the Health Data Research
UK (HDRUK) collaboration (Robertson co-I). New collaborations begun recently by Kleczkowski
include BBSRC projects on “Benign Infections or Damaging Epidemics”, to which he contributes
essential bio-economic modelling skills as part of a consortium led by the Food and Environment
Research Agency, and “A Decision Support Tool for Potato Blackleg Disease”, where he is part of a
consortium led by the James Hutton Institute. Internationally, members participate in collaborations
in Brazil, India and Malaysia on vaccination strategies, in H2020 programmes on vaccine
effectiveness (I-MOVE+), and are part of Strathclyde’s partnership in Global Public Health with the
International Prevention Research Institute in Lyon.

Mathematical Ecology: Living ecosystems represent a massive financial asset. The UK National
Ecosystem Assessment (2011) valued the benefits of the environment for nature itself, society and
economic prosperity at between £21.5 and £23 billion per year in Scotland alone. The University’s
Ecosystems Stewardship sub-theme has the marine world as its focus, with researchers in
Mathematical Ecology and the Centre for Environmental Law and Governance providing the main
input. This synergy between Humanities and Science has resulted in a successful Global Challenge
Research Fund bid for the One Ocean Hub (Heath co-I), an ambitious £20M programme and the
largest ever single grant awarded to Strathclyde. The Mathematical Ecology group developed from
initial funding through the Marine Alliance for Science and Technology in Scotland (MASTS) and the
Scottish Funding Council Research Pooling Initiative (2009-2016), and was subsequently expanded
through the more recent arrivals of Kleczkowski and Gomes to include wider topics in mathematical
biology and ecology. Embedding these specialists in a Mathematics and Statistics department
makes the group highly distinctive both nationally and worldwide. For example, members of the
group are the only participants from a Mathematics department in the GCRF One Ocean Hub, the
NERC Changing Arctic Ocean Programme (where they participate in four projects and lead one of
these), the international H2020 projects Mission Atlantic, SUMMER and MEESO (which are
focussed on marine fisheries and environment), a research programme in Hong Kong, and an eco-
forecasting partnership providing sustained-service decision support to health and environment
agencies on the US West Coast (which they co-lead). Group members are also active in providing
consultancy to the UK and North American Fisheries Agencies, fisheries certification organisations
such as the Marine Stewardship Council, NGOs such as the Atlantic Salmon Trust and WWF, and
fishing industry groups such as the Scottish Fishermen’s Federation. Taken together this means that
the work across this theme has a truly global reach.

Continuum Mechanics and Industrial Mathematics (Head: Wilson, 10 FTE)
This research group is focused on using various mathematical approaches to bring new scientific
insight to problems in manufacturing, medicine, geology, and beyond. The group’s research is
necessarily multidisciplinary, with members having expertise in continuum mechanics, material
science, fluid dynamics, and mathematical modelling in general, leading to collaborations with
physicists, engineers, chemists and a range of industrial partners, and is directly relevant to
Strathclyde’s strategic research themes in Advanced Manufacturing & Materials, Energy, and
Measurement Science & Enabling Technologies.

Fluid Mechanics: Advances in the understanding of fluid mechanics arising from the group’s work
are relevant to a wide range of industrial applications, especially those underpinning manufacturing.
Particular strength lies in applications concerning droplets, coating and wetting processes, led by
Wilson. For example, group members are currently collaborating with different divisions of Merck on
methods for manufacturing liquid crystal displays, developing and analysing mathematical models
for the drying of droplets arising in the manufacturing of organic light emitting diode displays via
industrially supported studentships, and have extensive collaborations with experimental groups in
Durham and Edinburgh.

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Liquid Crystals: Strathclyde has longstanding involvement in the development and mathematical
analysis of theories of liquid crystal materials, dating back to the pioneering work by Professor Frank
Leslie FRS, who co-developed the Ericksen-Leslie theory for nematic liquid crystals. Research in
this topic continues apace, enhanced by the recent appointment of Majumdar who is rapidly
becoming an international leader in the analysis and mathematical applications of the Landau-de
Gennes theory for nematic liquid crystals. Majumdar’s research is transforming the landscape of
mathematics-driven liquid crystal research. Group members currently work on wide-ranging modern
challenges in liquid crystal modelling e.g. theory of nematic defects, liquid crystal device design, new
composite liquid crystal-based materials etc., together with many national and international
collaborators (from e.g. Chicago, Delhi, Glasgow, Kent State, Mumbai, Nottingham Trent, Pavia,
Peking, and the Russian Academy of Sciences). This work is at the forefront of the mathematical
analysis of liquid crystals worldwide, as evidenced by the recent awards to Osipov, Mottram and
Majumdar (see Section 4).

Wave Propagation: The research in this area covers a wide range of topics, from numerical
modelling of microwave imaging in medical applications to non-destructive evaluation in ultrasonics.
Researchers have collaborations with major pharmaceutical companies GlaxoSmithKline and
AstraZeneca, with whom they have developed a novel inverse-problems approach to improving their
production-line sensing of drug crystallisation. Tant is pioneering novel research in the area of
ultrasonic tomography and experimental design for industry (with formal support from EDF, National
Physical Laboratory (NPL), National Nuclear Laboratory, Rolls Royce, OnScale and the Institute for
Healthcare Improvement (IHI). She is currently developing extensions to this work for inspection of
additive manufacturing processes with a multi-disciplinary team based at the Advanced Forming
Research Centre (AFRC), the Centre of Ultrasonic Engineering (CUE), and Georgia Institute of
Technology.

Analysis (Head: Mao, 13.6 FTE)

Applied Analysis: Innovative work in smart and nano-materials technologies involves
computational models that lead to fundamental mathematical questions (existence and well-
posedness, stability, qualitative properties of solutions) that fall within the remit of Applied Analysis.
The group members’ expertise in spectral analysis, coagulation-fragmentation equations and
homogenisation theory has enabled them to supplement and guide numerical and experimental work
in the AFRC and a KTN industrial internship with Procter & Gamble on the mathematical modelling
of spray-drying, while their expertise in network modelling and analysis underpins work in
Mathematical Ecology.

Numerical Analysis: The group is one of the four largest (along with Bath, Manchester and Oxford)
and most well-established groups of its kind in the UK. Their research is focused on the construction
and analysis of computational methods for algebraic and differential equations arising in a wide
variety of application areas, equipping them to make important contributions across all the
University’s strategic research themes. Current examples include Measurement Science & Enabling
Technologies (regarding sensor networks with NPL), Advanced Manufacturing & Materials
(regarding electric heating in collaboration with the AFRC), and Ocean, Air & Space (regarding
unsteady vortex-dominated flows). The group has been enhanced by two recent appointments,
Pestana and Arrigo, both of whom specialise in numerical linear algebra. Numerical Analysis
continues to be an area of strategic growth to capitalise on the opportunities provided by the
widespread upsurge in the importance of data science and associated technologies and, in
particular, Strathclyde’s position at the heart of the newly-launched City of Glasgow Innovation
District (GCID). Since 2014, group members have secured substantial grants from funders including
EPSRC, Technology Strategy Board, Cancer Research UK, Leverhulme Trust and Horizon 2020

                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(see Section 3). Externally, these researchers are also recognised for organising the longest-running
and largest international conference on numerical analysis (see Section 4).

Stochastic Analysis: Research by this group on stochastic differential equation (SDE) models for
option values in energy markets, stochastic numerical solutions for nonlinear energy models, and
time-series models for financial data contributes across many of the University’s strategic research
themes, notably Energy and Health & Wellbeing. The group is led by Mao and has an internationally
acknowledged research capability in the mathematical modelling of stochastic systems. In particular,
several popular numerical methods for nonlinear SDEs, including the tamed Euler-Maruyama (EM),
the stopped EM, and the tamed Milstein methods, and adaptive EM methods have recently been
developed based on pioneering work by the group.

Strategy & Implementation
Overall, our research is targeted directly at the development and application of Mathematics and
Statistics to create significant impact in both the academic and non-academic worlds. We have a
Research and Knowledge Committee (RKEC), chaired by the Research Director, responsible for
developing, leading and delivery of research and impact at a Departmental level. The committee is
populated by the heads of the research groups, research leads, and the KE Director. Due to growth
in our PGR student cohort, in 2016 we established a separate Postgraduate Committee (chaired by
the Postgraduate Director), which enabled RKEC to focus on strategic planning for research and
impact activities. Both these committees report to the Executive Committee, chaired by the Head of
Department, which is responsible for all aspects of the general management.

Our focus is on carrying out research in key areas where we have proven track record in research
quality (e.g. stochastic analysis, liquid crystal modelling, and numerical analysis), while developing
new areas of research in line with the strategic aspirations of the Department and University (e.g.
drug manufacture, digital health, and the One Ocean Hub). Our recruitment strategy is crucial to the
realisation of this strategy: new academic staff are hired with a strong emphasis on their strengths
relating to specific research themes (see Section 2). Additionally, we place a focus on a collaborative
ethos of interdisciplinary research, encouraging staff to work closely with colleagues from the
Faculty, University, other academic institutions, charities, government bodies and industry (see
Section 4). Since REF2014, we have created a Strategic Grants Initiatives Fund, comprising
approximately £20K annually to support staff with the development of innovative research proposals.
This fund has enabled research visits both from and to the Department, and visits to industrial
partners for scoping collaborative opportunities. Over the next five years, we will actively target
particular opportunities for new external collaborations in line with our research priorities, particularly
with exciting new developments being spearheaded by Strathclyde such as the National
Manufacturing Institute for Scotland (NMIS) and the Medicines Manufacturing Innovation Centre
(MMIC), which require multi-faceted contributions from the Mathematical Sciences and Statistics.

Our research achieves impact beyond academia through extensive research partnerships with
industry and public sector organisations (see Section 4), as exemplified by our three impact cases
studies. Members of Health and Ecology Modelling collaborated with Public Health Scotland and
others to develop surveillance techniques and provide policy advice regarding managing seasonal
and pandemic influenza, Covid-19 and Human Papilloma Virus in Scotland. Numerical Analysis
researchers collaborated with a digital marketing company on communication network analysis,
providing the algorithms for new commercial software, which has been used by major companies
such as Sky, Twitter, and Jewson in social media campaigns. Researchers in Mathematical Ecology
have worked extensively with national and international agencies on fisheries and marine
stewardship, assessing the sustainability of fishing and fish stocks in Europe, USA and Africa.




                                                                                                   Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our commitment to achieving impact in industry and the public sector is further illustrated by our
well-established policy of offering commercial KE services to external organisations across sectors,
including Continuing Professional Development (CPD) and expert consultancy. Such activity is
coordinated and led by our Statistical and Mathematical Advice, Research and Training (SMART)
consultancy unit. Recent examples of KE impact include the following:
    • Upskilling quality assurance in the manufacturing sector: Bespoke training provided to
        Scottish Leather Group and an international medical devices company to help improve their
        product quality. In the latter case, 30 UK staff attended three successive courses with 7 US
        staff attending the final course.
    • Statistical modelling for a UK national regulation agency: Resulted in new methodology and
        AI algorithms for maximising the use of sparse data, and enabled the agency to provide more
        accurate financial projections and planning pertaining to particular regulatory programmes.
    • CPD courses in mathematical modelling and statistical methods for teachers: Commissioned
        by the Scottish Qualifications Agency (SQA), these courses provided teachers with the
        knowledge required to deliver a new Scottish Higher Mathematics qualification. In 2019-2020
        these courses were delivered to over 500 teachers across Scotland.
    • CPD in statistical modelling for NHS staff: A bespoke course for health care professionals
        who want to upskill in statistics and data analysis. In 2019-2020 this course was delivered to
        134 participants.


 2. People

Our staffing strategy follows directly from the research strategy, with a central objective of growing
the quality and number of staff in our areas of strategic importance (see Section 1). Specifically, our
staffing strategy addresses succession planning, sustainability of our research groups, and assists
KE with external partners to maximise our research impact. A key route to achieving these goals has
been co-investment aligned to the University’s strategic funding routes, the Chancellor’s Fellowship
(CF) scheme and the Global Talent Programme (GTP), which have been very successful in attracting
high-quality international researchers to the Department. Specifically, since 2014 we have recruited
three Professors under the GTP scheme – Kleczkowski (2018), Majumdar (2019) and Gomes
(2020), and eight staff members through the CF scheme – Banas (2015), Kavanagh (2015), Eom
(2016), Waurick (2017), Barry (2018), Chen (2018), Tant (2019) and Das (2020). In addition, we
have recruited four Lecturers through our normal departmental recruitment process – Pestana
(2015), Foondun (2016), Wray (2017) and Arrigo (2019). The high quality of these researchers is
evidenced in Section 4, and their involvement in the different research groups is outlined below.

Health and Ecology Modelling
To build on our unique capabilities in this area (see Section 1), we have grown the group from 4.4
FTE at REF2014 to 7.1 FTE at REF2021, including the appointments of Kavanagh, Barry (0.6 FTE),
Gomes and Kleczkowski. In particular, Kleczkowski is key to our succession planning for the longer-
term leadership of this group. Bolstered by Strathclyde’s new Ecosystems Stewardship sub-theme,
and being aware of an external funding environment with an increasing focus on the global
challenges facing our oceans, we have also invested in our strong technical expertise in
mathematical modelling of marine ecosystems, growing the Marine Science group from 1.4 to 3.4
FTE through the appointments of Banas and Chen. The health-related research of Barry, Kavanagh
and Young (2.3 FTE) is submitted within UOA3.

Continuum Mechanics and Industrial Mathematics
Owing to the strategic importance of the research area, we have invested in new expertise via the
appointments of Das, Majumdar, Tant and Wray to offset retirements and other departures during


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the REF period and growing the group from 9.2 to 10 FTE. We anticipate this growth continuing in
line with University-wide investment in initiatives such as the CGID and the NMIS.

Analysis
The quality, reputation and size of the group (17 FTE) has ensured continued strategic staffing
investment, reflected in the appointment since REF2014 of Arrigo, Eom, Pestana and Waurick. Also,
research in Stochastic Analysis, which underpins our very successful MSc programmes in Finance,
Actuarial Science and Applied Statistics, has been strengthened by the appointment of Foondun.
The research of Steingrimsson, Kitaev and Bevan in Combinatorics is submitted within UOA11.

Recruitment
Each staffing case to replace an existing post or create a new post has to include a detailed business
case and description of alignment with research strategy at Department, Faculty and University level.
Positions are widely advertised, which has helped to attract considerable interest from candidates
worldwide. We always select the best candidates regardless of origin and have never encountered
problems obtaining visas for non-EU applicants. 15 out of the 35 staff (33.1 FTE) submitted to
REF2021 originate from outside the UK. The current staffing contract profile for UOA10 is shown in
Table 1.

Table 1. Current Staff Profile

            Staff Contract Level          Numbers of Staff            % of Eligible Staff
                   HESA                       FTE                            FTE


        F1 Professor                              11                        33.2%

        I0 Reader/Senior Lecturer                 9.7                       29.3%

        J0 Lecturer B/Senior
                                                  9.4                       28.4%
        Research Fellow

        K0 Lecturer A                              3                         9.1%


An important additional component of our staffing strategy is the appointment of Academic Teachers
(ATs) to reduce the teaching and administrative workload on Academic Research staff, and thus
grow our capacity to deliver our research objectives; we have grown this category of staff from 2 to
6 FTE over this REF period. We have also appointed a KE Director to directly support staff in deriving
impact from their research.

Personal Fellowships
To develop staff at all stages of their careers, we encourage and support them in applying for
personal fellowships, which has brought additional resource to the Department to help achieve our
strategic research goals and diversify our research income streams. A robust internal peer review
process offers extensive feedback on proposals and mock interviews with colleagues from other
departments and/or universities if appropriate. A reduction in teaching load and relief from some
academic administrative duties is granted to staff securing funding for teaching replacement, with 7
fellowship holders benefitting since 2014. Staff have been awarded 13 individual research
fellowships since REF2014 (see Section 4). These prestigious fellowships have raised our national
and international profile in several ways. For example, Majumdar's fellowship enabled her to
establish long-term links with the leading experimental group led by Lagerwall (Luxembourg), and
together with Walker (Louisiana), they organised an international research workshop at the Institute

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
of Computational and Experimental Research in Mathematics (Brown), while Ramage’s fellowship
led to new research links with Nichols (Mathematics) and Lawless (Meteorology) at Reading.

Career Development and Support for Staff
We play an active role in the career development and training of our staff at every stage of their
careers. All staff have an annual one-to-one meeting with the Head of Department when their career
aspirations and development and support needs are discussed. Staff also have the opportunity for
regular support by a more senior colleague who can provide guidance on all aspects of career
development. All new academic staff set aims and objectives within their first six months in addition
to participation in the university-wide Accountability and Development Review (ADR) process (see
Institutional Statement). In addition, new appointments at a junior level are all assigned a mentor to
advise them as they follow the institutional Academic Career Development Framework. During this
REF period, we have seen ten promotions - with four members of staff being promoted to Professor
(Dolean, Greenhalgh, Mackenzie, Mulholland), one being promoted to Reader (Banas), two being
promoted to Senior Lecturer (Kavanagh, Pritchard), and five being promoted to Lecturer B (Pestana,
Waurick, Wray, Arrigo, Tant). In addition, two members of professorial staff were re-zoned upwards,
and three academics received contribution pay awards. If the annual ADR discussions identify a
strong case for promotion, then the Head of Department meets individually with the staff member to
give detailed guidance on the process in order to ensure that all of the cases put forward have the
greatest possible chance of success.

Staff have access to a variety of financial support to help initiate research: CF’s receive a £10K
Starter Grant, while new Professors receive a £25K New Professor’s Fund. New staff can also
access funds via the research groups, which are allocated an annual budget for conference
attendance and training.

All staff have access to a wide range of CPD courses under Strathclyde’s Programme in Research
and Leadership (SPIRAL) and the Organisational and Staff Development Unit (OSDU). Research
staff benefit from support that meets the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers, with the University receiving reaccreditation in 2016 of the EU HR Excellence in
Research Award. Our senior staff periodically audit the quality of staff publications and provide
individual feedback and support, particularly to Early Career (EC) researchers. We also run a series
of Research Grant Workshops (see Section 3) which enable staff to develop their grant-writing skills,
to keep informed about funding opportunities, and to access peer support and feedback on
applications – all of which supports staff development.

Fixed-term contracts are only used where funding is limited to a specified period or where the post
was created to deliver a specific time-limited project. We comply with the Fixed Term Employees
(Prevention of Less Favourable Treatment) Regulations 2002, and staff who have been on fixed-
term contracts for over 4 years will normally be switched to open-ended contracts. During this REF
period, all Academic Research staff have been on open-ended contracts, while all of our
Postdoctoral Research Assistants (PDRAs) have been on fixed-term contracts. Our PDRAs are
funded from a variety of sources including EPSRC, NERC, EC and Marie Skłodowska Curie. Three
former PDRAs have secured permanent positions on open-ended contracts with us, with Corson
becoming a Teaching Associate, Arrigo winning a three-year Leverhulme Trust Early Career
Fellowship before becoming a Lecturer, and Tant being awarded a three-year EPSRC UKRI
Innovation Fellowship before being appointed as a CF.

We have several ways of developing the impact generating qualities of our staff. A particularly
successful approach has been through encouraging staff to take up joint appointments with other
organisations. We have staff holding joint appointments with, for example, Health Protection
Scotland (Robertson), NHS Scotland (Young), and the Animal and Plant Health Agency (Kelly). The

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
knowledge exchange is two-way, enabling research at the University to be applied directly to
operational settings, as well as enabling practical applications to inform the development of
University research. We also encourage staff to take part in wider cross-institutional initiatives, such
as the GCID, which reaches out to business in targeted sectors. Our KE Director assists staff with
developing KE activities, and we have facilitated connections with external organisations through
arranging events and workshops based around particular applications.

Support for PGR Students
During the REF2021 period, we recruited 98 students with 68 completing their PhD, and a further 9
currently working on corrections. This compares with 70 students being recruited with 42 completing
their PhD, and a further 3 graduating with an MPhil during the REF2014 period. While we have
typically recruited around 10 new PGR students each year, in 2019-2020 we recruited a total of 21
new PGR students partially due to Chen, Cook, Heath and Speirs winning NERC DTP SUPER
studentships. We participate in the University’s Research Studentship schemes (see Institutional
Statement): the Head of Department, Postgraduate Research Director, and PhD Studentship
Coordinator select the strongest applicants and proposals. During this REF period, 49 of the
Department’s 98 PhD students were funded from external sources including APHA, The Carnegie
Trust, Capita, Cancer Research UK (CRUK), EPSRC, Horizon2020, The Leverhulme Trust, NERC,
MASTS, Marine Scotland, and NPL. Our PGR students are based across all of our research groups,
with 41 in Health and Ecology Modelling, 25 in Continuum Mechanics and Industrial Mathematics,
and 32 in Analysis.

We follow the University’s Policy and Code of Practice for Postgraduate Research Study, which sets
out guidelines covering the student-supervisor relationship, research governance and ethics, and
training and development. Our students benefit from participation in Strathclyde’s Postgraduate
Certificate (PGCert) in Researcher Professional Development, which is awarded along with their
degree at the conclusion of their studies. All of our PGR students have at least two supervisors, and
are mentored by a third staff member not otherwise involved in the project. Progress is monitored
every 3 months in year 1 and every 6 months thereafter, complemented by regular assessments of
research and training. At the end of year 1, a research report assists the Department to determine
progression, and during year 2, students present their research to their contemporaries, write a
substantial research report, and sit a “mini-viva”. For the majority of students whose funding extends
beyond 36 months, a draft thesis or detailed thesis plan with attached papers is required in year 3.
At each of these stages, the Postgraduate Research Director reports to the Postgraduate Research
Committee, which authorises progression, organises corrective action, or recommends transfer to a
lower-level qualification. These proactive strategies ensure that the training a student receives is at
the appropriate level and matched to their needs. The training programme is flexible and may be
adapted to suit changes in needs and research direction. During this REF period, a number of
students have taken time away from their research and training for personal reasons, such as mental
health issues, caring for parents, and maternity leave. We supported all of these students and each
subsequently successfully completed their degree.

Generic and core skills training are embedded from the start of our PGR programme. In particular,
we deliver a compulsory module on Research Governance and Organisation in the Mathematical
Sciences. The innovative module provides discipline-specific provision in this area and equips PGR
students with key but rarely taught skills necessary to become effective research professionals.
Students learn about publication, collaboration, authorship, citation and professionalism in the
Mathematical Sciences, and submit reflective assessments. We are also a member of the Scottish
Mathematical Sciences Training Centre (SMSTC), a joint venture between all research active
Mathematical Sciences departments in Scotland (originally funded by EPSRC in response to the
2004 International Review of UK Mathematics). The SMSTC (whose current Director is Pritchard) is
an invaluable resource and offers both generic and discipline specific training to all PGR students in

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Scotland, regardless of their funding source. The training provided by SMSTC consist of two-hour
lectures once a week for ten weeks, on core modules organised into four themes, Analysis,
Applications of Mathematics, Probability & Statistics, and Structure & Symmetry in which students
complete graded assignments. Supplementary modules, which can be at a more advanced level,
are also offered and are often taken by higher-year PhD students. We have a PGR Training
Coordinator who provides both students and supervisors with information and advice about the
requirements of the PGCert, and monitors student progress.

Having a minimum of two supervisors for each student allows Early Careers staff to gain experience
of supervision by acting as a second supervisor with a more experienced primary supervisor. EC
staff are also actively encouraged to apply for studentships through the University’s Research
Studentship schemes, where preference is often given to Early Careers staff.

All of our PhD students are supported financially by the Department to present their research at
international and national conferences and workshops, with the vast majority of our PhD students
going onto publish their work in international journals. Students within the Health and Ecology
Modelling Group who are associated with MASTS also benefit from twice-a-year retreats for students
from across the MASTS community which provide a variety of training experiences. Some academic
staff and PGR students are members of the Centre for Mathematics Applied to the Life Sciences
(CMALS, run jointly with Glasgow), which organises poster competitions, visits to experimental labs,
and regular meetings and seminars. We also have an energetic Society for Industrial and Applied
Mathematics (SIAM) and Institute for Mathematics and its Applications (IMA) Student Chapter which
helps to promote the application of mathematics in industry through the organisation of social and
academic events.

The quality of our PhD programme and Departmental support is evidenced by the ongoing success
of our recent PhD graduates. For example, in addition to Tant securing a CF at Strathclyde (2014),
Wachtel (2016) secured a position as Professor at Instituto Tecnologico Autonomo de Mexico, Bosy
(2017) as a Research Associate at Imperial, Al Mukahal (2018) as a Lecturer at King Faisal
University, Saudi Arabia, Lu (2018) as a Lecturer at Donghua, China, Cai (2019) as an Assistant
Professor at Nottingham, and Dong (2019) as a Research Fellow at Warwick.

Equality and Diversity
We fully support and endorse the University’s Equality and Diversity Policy and comply with it in all
recruitment processes and Departmental activities. We have our own Equality and Diversity
Committee which seeks to promote greater awareness of equality and diversity issues within the
Department, and which makes policy recommendations to the Executive Committee. All staff
undertake diversity awareness training, which includes courses on Diversity in the Workplace and
Understanding Bias. We adhere to the London Mathematical Society (LMS) Good Practice Scheme,
and are fortunate to have an Honorary LMS member (Davies) as a champion in this regard. At the
close of the REF2021 period, 27% of eligible staff were female, compared with 24% at the close of
the REF2014 period. We have made notable progress in promoting and recruiting female talent into
senior roles, with 18% of our current Professors female, compared with 0% for REF2014. The last
three years has seen significant progress in our efforts to improve gender balance, with eight women
being appointed to a range of positions including three CFs and two PDRAs, and three women being
appointed to chairs since REF2014. These include Gomes and Majumdar through the GTP scheme,
while Dolean (who joined in 2013) has recently been promoted to Professor.

The University seeks to support staff in achieving a health work/life balance, recognising that many
have family or caring responsibilities. Several policies exist to assist staff, including: flexible working
options (which include changes of working hours or working pattern), family-friendly leave (which
covers maternity and parental leave), adoption leave, shared parental leave, emergency and unpaid

                                                                                                   Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
leave for family reasons, and special leave. During the review period three members of staff have
benefitted from the maternity leave policy. Two members of staff took a year of maternity leave, and
made use of the “Keeping in Touch” days, while another is currently on leave and will return after 9
months. Even before the current Covid-19 pandemic necessitated a wholesale shift to remote
working, the Department had a culture and policy of informal flexible working where staff were
enabled to work at home provided that it did not interfere with the smooth operation of the
Department. There have also been two requests for contractual changes to working practices from
staff during the review period, both of which were approved. The University’s Carer Policy (see
Institutional Statement) also enables staff who have a caring responsibility to benefit from support
options including flexible working, homeworking, and special leave, which help staff to continue to
be effective in their role. Care is taken not to exclude anyone from Departmental activities by
choosing days and times when colleagues working part-time are able to participate.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

In keeping with our overall aim of generating research with real-world impact, our research income
is primarily and deliberately obtained in collaboration with colleagues from other disciplines and
institutions, including industry partners. We encourage such interactions by widely promoting
relevant funding opportunities and supporting staff in the preparation and review of applications. New
strategies in this area since REF2014 include the creation of our Strategic Grants Initiatives Fund
(see Section 1) and strengthening our internal peer review procedures to ensure that applications
submitted are of the highest quality. Rather than peer review being dealt with on an ad hoc basis, all
potential grant applicants are now required to complete peer review documentation which describes
any external peer review process and, if required, allows the Research Director to set up an
appropriate internal process. Peer review is now compulsory before costings can be approved by
the Head of Department. The benefit of this strategy is reflected in the success rate of research
applications since REF2014, as given in Table 2.

Table 2. Application Success Rate
                    2014-15     2015-16      2016-17     2017-18      2018-19     2019-20      Overall

 Unsuccessful          25          15           20          13           15          25          113

 Successful            11          12           12          12           10          10           67
 Success Rate         31%         44%          38%         48%          40%         29%          37%


Staff are also encouraged to make use of frequent University-wide initiatives. For example, grants
from Strathclyde’s International Strategic Partners Fund have been used to establish new links with
academics at Waterloo, Chalmers and Delft. Also, staff members are frequently involved in funding
bids with Strathclyde Research Centres such as the AFRC and Continuous Manufacturing and
Crystallisation (CMAC). We have also introduced a series of Research Grant Workshops to raise
the profile of grant-writing activities, including sessions addressing particular aspects of grant-writing
such as demonstrating potential impact, “speed dating” to meet potential new collaborators, and
sessions delivered by internal and external colleagues on relevant research topics. These sessions
are open to all staff and PDRAs, with probationary staff strongly encouraged to attend.

Our strategy of focussing on collaborative, applicable research is reflected in our research funding
profile, which shows income from a diverse range of sources across research councils, UK
government, charities, industry and other external agencies (Table 3). Specifically, since 2014 we
have obtained support from over 35 different funders, ranging from traditional sources to more


                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
unusual agencies such as C B Dennis British Beekeepers' Research Trust, National Oceanic
Atmospheric Administration, and the US non-profit agency Long Live the Kings.

Table 3. Range of Funding Sources                   Table 4. Awards Total by Year (£K)

           Funding type         Amount (£K)                 Period        Awards total (£K)
       UK Research Council          5,429                  2013-14               529
         UK Government              1,527                  2014-15               2,431
           International            1,226                  2015-16               1,029
            UK Charity              1,181                  2016-17               2,468
       UK Health & Hospitals         424                   2017-18               1,428
           UK Industry               213                   2018-19               881
             UK Other                 91                   2019-20               1,325
              TOTAL                 10,091                  TOTAL               10,091



Ten major awards (worth over £300K) have been obtained since 2014:

   •    Heath (co-I), Global Challenge Research Fund £18.2m - One Ocean Hub; the largest ever
        single grant awarded to Strathclyde (2019);
   •    Higham, EPSRC Research Fellowship £643K – Data Analytics for Future Cities (2014);
   •    Robertson, Chief Scientist Office £604K - Scottish Healthcare Associated Infection
        Prevention Institute (SHAIPI) – with SIPBS (2014);
   •    Higham, EPSRC Programme Grant £566K - Inference, COmputation and Numerics for
        INsights into Cities (ICONIC) - with Imperial, Oxford and Manchester (total grant £2.9M)
        (2016);
   •    Mulholland, EPSRC £517K - iNEED (including Nondestructive Evaluation in Engineered
        Design) – with EEE (2016);
   •    Banas, NERC £497K - Arctic PRoductivity in the seasonal Ice ZonE (Arctic PRIZE) (2016);
   •    Banas, NERC £468K - Mechanistic understanding of the role of diatoms in the success of
        the Arctic Calanus complex and implications for a warmer Arctic (2016);
   •    Mottram and Wilson, EPSRC £358K - Control of free-surface flow morphologies in
        anisotropic liquids – with Nottingham Trent (total grant £695K) (2019);
   •    Dolean, EPSRC £342K - Fast solvers for frequency domain wave-scattering problems and
        applications – with Bath (2018);
   •    Heath, NERC £308K - Microbes to Megafauna Modelling of Arctic Seas (MiMeMo) (2018).

Our 132 research, studentship and fellowship awards since 2014 include investigators from all the
other four departments in the Science Faculty, six of eight departments in the Engineering Faculty,
three departments in the Humanities & Social Sciences Faculty, and two departments in the
Strathclyde Business School. Furthermore, 58 of these awards involved joint applicants or project
partners from external institutions (Table 5).


Since the University introduced a KE career pathway, we have employed a full-time KE Director.
The Director undertakes marketing of services, costing and pricing of projects, negotiations with
clients, client liaison, management of projects, technical delivery on some projects, and management
reporting of KE activity. The key source of support for impact activities is our SMART consultancy



                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
unit (see Section 1), managed by the KE Director and guided by a management board. Income
generated by SMART is reinvested in staffing positions, studentships, and other research activities.


Table 5. Awards by Collaborator Type

                           Collaborator Type                         Number of Awards

                       UK Educational Institution                             28

              UK Industry, Commerce, Public Corporation                       11

                     UK Health & Hospital Authority                            6

                       EU Educational Institution                              4

            Overseas Educational Institution (non-European)                    4

                         UK Research Councils                                  2

                        UK Central Government                                  1

                     UK Public/Private Partnership                             1

                               UK Charity                                      1



Our staff benefit from several University-wide facilities that support impact generation (see
Institutional Statement). A key example is NPL which established a strategic partnership with
Strathclyde in 2015. Specific interaction has included a two-day research and impact scoping
workshop (including colleagues from Surrey) which resulted in multiple grant proposals being
submitted. Also, a week-long joint programme on the Mathematics of Measurement was held at the
International Centre for Mathematical Sciences (ICMS) in Edinburgh in 2017. We have hosted three
joint Strathclyde-NPL studentships, and Forbes (NPL) was recently appointed as a Visiting Professor
jointly with the Department of Computer and Information Science.

Our research facilities were refurbished substantially in 2009, creating several new meeting and
seminar rooms, designated space for academic visitors, and a new Departmental library. A
designated video conferencing facility, used to deliver post-graduate classes as part of the SMSTC,
can also be used by staff for research meetings with remote collaborators. We employ two staff
dedicated to providing IT support, one of whom has specialised software engineering skills and
assists with turning researcher-generated code into distributable software packages. We also have
access to wide-ranging IT services at a University level, including the research information portal
PURE, and the online file-sharing facility Strathcloud. We also have access to shared University
facilities such as ARCHIE-WeST, a regional supercomputing centre for the West of Scotland set up
in 2012 and dedicated to research excellence and economic growth. Its main computer ACRHIE was
upgraded in 2018 and comprises more than 2500 INTEL Skylake 6138 cores for distributed parallel
computing, two 3TB RAM large memory nodes, and 210TB of high performance GPFS storage.
Several of our research groups make use of this £2.4M facility, with Tant and co-workers having
335K core hours funded through various grants which require use of commercial software (Matlab
and OnScale), commercial compilers (Intel), and their own bespoke software, and Dolean having
300K core hours funded through an EPSRC grant using the open source Freefem software.




                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Research Collaborations and Networks
As described in previous sections, collaboration lies at the heart of almost all of our research
activities. In addition to extensive national and international individual research collaborations, staff
are active in a variety of larger research networks with external partners. Our SMART consultancy
unit (see Section 1) also helps to drive the development of external relationships that offer the
opportunity for two-way translation of knowledge and deeper research collaborations. Highlights
include:

Health and Ecology Modelling
Health Statistics has a long-standing strategic partnership with Health Protection Scotland (HPS) for
the provision of expert/research level leadership in statistics. This provides HPS with a higher level
of statistical expertise than is generally available in NHS Scotland, giving HPS direct access to
researchers and PGRs working on relevant research areas. In addition to the Scottish Government
Covid-19 Advisory Group mentioned earlier, Robertson is a member of the European Medicines
Agency/Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency Vaccine Safety EWG COVID group,
and contributes to Public Health Scotland Research and Modelling Team for Covid-19. He also
serves on the Executive and Implementation Group of the Scottish Healthcare Associated Infection
Prevention Institute (SHAIPI), and is a member of the Scottish Centre of the UK Health Data
Research Network, the I-MOVE European Research Network for Influenza Vaccine Effectiveness,
and the I-MOVE+ European Network for Influenza and Pneumococcal Vaccine Effectiveness. Kelly
has a joint appointment with APHA that provides benefits in terms of PhD projects, publications, CPD
courses and an immediate pathway to impact regarding veterinary epidemiology and risk
assessment. This includes the development of risk assessment models which have been used to
guide policy on rabies control regarding pet movements into GB and more recently contributions to
risk assessment in relation to Covid-19. In this later case, assessments focused on international
travel and the movement of animals and their products. Young and Barry work closely with NHS
Greater Glasgow and Clyde on the design and analysis of medical research studies (as a result of
the interdisciplinary nature of their work they are submitted within UOA3).

In Mathematical Ecology, Banas, Heath and Speirs lead several national and international
collaborations on various aspects of Marine Science. Current partner universities include TU
Denmark, Middle East Technical, Princeton and Southampton, along with other organisations such
as the Helmholtz-Zentrum Geesthacht Centre for Materials and Coastal Research, German Ministry
of Education and Research, and the Institute for Marine Research, Portugal. Banas and Heath are
also leading players in the BASIN Programme (a joint EU and North American programme in marine
ecosystems in support of the Global Earth Observation System of Systems Initiative), and the
International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, an inter-governmental Marine Science
organisation meeting societal needs for impartial evidence on the state of and sustainable use of our
oceans and seas. Nationally, they are key players in MASTS and are active in the NERC Changing
Arctic Programme and NERC Marine Ecosystems Programme. On land, Kleczkowski uses
mathematical models to study human, animal and plant diseases, soil and terrestrial biodiversity,
and climate change. Specific projects include developing a Plant Health Outbreak Decision Support
Framework for DEFRA, and work on the impact of climate change on the spread of pests and
diseases in Scotland for the Scottish Government. Greenhalgh has worked on mathematical
modelling of a wide range of medical and biological problems, including modelling of a new mosquito
trap with an SME in Malaysia, and dengue vaccination and hepatitis C databases in Brazil.

Continuum Mechanics and Industrial Mathematics
In Fluid Mechanics, group members collaborate with Bain (Durham), Cimpeanu (Warwick),
Narayanan (Florida), Sefiane (Edinburgh), Stone (Princeton), and others. Nationally, in the UK Fluids

                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Network, Mottram and Wilson lead the Special Interest Group (SIG) on Fluid Dynamics of Liquid
Crystalline Materials (2016-2020), and Wray is an Impact Champion for the SIG on Multiphase Flow.

Our researchers in Liquid Crystals form one of the largest centres worldwide for mathematical
modelling of such materials, as reflected in their long list of national and international collaborators.
Leading scientists in the area including Gartland (Kent State) and Virga (Pavia) have collaborated
with the group, and Mottram and Wilson have a long-running collaboration with Brown (Nottingham
Trent) which recently led to a significant EPSRC award in partnership with Merck Group (2019).
Majumdar co-leads the Bath-Oxford-Strathclyde (BOS) Network on Anisotropic Materials, and the
Special Interest Group in Liquid Crystals, Elastomers and Biological Applications for the European
Consortium for Mathematics in Industry (ECMI).

In Wave Propagation, group members have a long-standing collaboration with CUE, primarily
working on inverse problems associated with ultrasonic non-destructive evaluation, and have
collaborated with many international industrial partners, such as IHI Corporation (Japan), Doosan
Babcock (UK), and Orthosensor (USA). The tangible outcomes of these collaborations include
development of a bespoke software package (currently being tested by IHI employees), joint
publications and access to industrial data and facilities. Mulholland and Tant were also members of
the team which secured funding for the new Future of Ultrasonic Engineering (FUSE) CDT, a
collaboration between Glasgow and Strathclyde, in 2019. Tant has undertaken secondments to both
NPL and OnScale, and has forged a new relationship with colleagues at the AFRC. Tant has also
continued to grow the Wave Propagation group, securing a new PDRA funded through a joint project
with CUE and two new PhD studentships, one of which is supported by the IHI corporation and
funded by the EPSRC Future Innovation in Non-Destructive evaluation (FIND) CDT, a collaboration
between Strathclyde, Bristol, Imperial, Manchester, Nottingham and Warwick.

Analysis
Researchers in Applied Analysis have a number of individual high-profile collaborators, including
Crooks (Swansea), da Costa (Universidade Aberta, Lisboa), Drmota (TU Wien), Neukamm (TU
Dresden), and Woracek (TU Wien). Waurick was a co-organiser with Baasch (Hamburg), Trostorff
(Kiel) and Seifert (Clausthal) of the 23rd Internet Seminar on Evolution Equations (2019-2020), which
disseminated the latest research in evolutionary equations to a worldwide audience. Other
collaborative work includes research with Procter & Gamble on coagulation-fragmentation
phenomena.

In Numerical Analysis, several new collaborations have been established since REF2014. One
highlight was the award of an EPSRC Mathematics Programme Grant (Higham, 2016) which led to
a new research network with Imperial, Oxford and Manchester. A second new EPSRC-funded
collaboration was established with Bath (Dolean, 2018), and Mackenzie formed a new research
partnership with the Beatson Cancer Centre funded by UK Cancer Research. There have also been
new links forged within Strathclyde, with Barrenechea and Pestana starting new projects with AFRC
and Electronic and Electrical Engineering (EEE), respectively. Barrenechea is also co-organiser of
the Scottish Numerical Methods Network. In addition, Higham, Mackenzie and Ramage have
established new collaborations with Forbes at NPL and these have resulted in funded EPSRC ICASE
and University PhD studentships.

In Stochastic Analysis, researchers have established close links with several Chinese universities
and companies, including Donghua, Huazhong, Northeast Normal, Shanghai Normal, and Qingdao
Luze Real Estate Group Co Ltd (who funded a PhD scholarship). Pan is also developing an in-
country PhD programme with South China Agricultural University, and Mao is on the Technical
Committee of the Control Theory (TCCT) Stochastic System Control Network.


                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Visiting Professorships
We have an active Visiting Professor (VP) programme, whereby internationally leading individuals
engage with the Department in a variety of ways, such as delivering research lectures, advising on
grant applications, and collaborating on specific research projects. VPs include Bird (Edinburgh,
2012-present), Brunner (Newfoundland, 2003-2016), Gartland (Kent State, 2009-2017), Cuminato
(São Paulo, 2019-present), Duff (STFC-RAL, 1987-present), Forbes (NPL, 2019-present), Sefiane
(Edinburgh, 2015-present), Picard (2004-present), Banasiak (Pretoria, 2013-present), and Walton
(Texas A&M, 2008-2018). These appointments have provided co-supervision of PhD students
(Forbes and Sefiane); enabled closer involvement with HPS and the health service in Scotland (Bird);
as well as joint publications between the VPs and department staff (Picard (9), Cuminato (8),
Banasiak (8), and Sefiane (5)). Our own staff also hold several external visiting positions, for
example, Majumdar is a VP at Bath and IIT Bombay and a Visiting Fellow at Oxford, having
previously held a Chinese Academy of Sciences President’s International Fellowship (2016) and
Distinguished Grey Fellowship (Durham, 2016), while Kleczkowski is an Honorary Professor at
Stirling.

Other International Activity
Many individual international research collaborations with researchers across several countries have
already been mentioned above. Other notable links include Majumdar’s Department of Science and
Technology project with IIT-Delhi to fund bilateral visits, a Royal Society Newton Fellowship with
Peking in China, and a Daiwan Foundation small grant with Tohoku in Japan. Regarding research-
related training, Greenhalgh, Grinfeld, Knight, Lamb and Pritchard have taught postgraduate courses
and/or supervised students at various African Institute Centres for the Mathematical Sciences (AIMS)
in Cameroon, Ghana, Rwanda and South Africa. Also, Grinfeld has taught at MSc-level schools
mainly funded by the Centre International de Mathematiques Pures et Appliquees (CIMPA) in India,
Laos and The Philippines.

Contributions to External Policy Research
Our Marine Scientists continue to play an important role in informing the Scottish Government’s
Marine and Fisheries policy, with Heath currently the Chair of the Scottish Government/Clyde Marine
Planning Research Advisory Group and a member of the Scottish Parliament Cross Party Group on
Fishing. Additionally, Kleczkowski is a member of the Scientific Advice and Response Team at the
Scottish Government Plant Health Centre, and Gray is co-Chair of the COLOSS Honey Bee Colony
Loss Monitoring Group. Cook is co-author of the European Commission publication “European Red
List of Marine Fishes”, a review of the conversation status of European fish species published by the
European Commission. Our health sciences researchers play key roles in guiding the policy and
practice of HPS, with Robertson a member of the HPS HPV Epidemiology and Surveillance
Committee, the Vaccine Preventable Diseases Epidemiology and Surveillance Committee, the
Department of Health SPI-Modelling Committee, and the Ethics and Data Safety Monitoring
Committees of the International Breast Cancer Group. Also, Barry is an expert statistical member of
the West of Scotland Research Ethics Committee. In education policy, Pritchard authored the
Scottish Mathematical Council (SMC) report “SQA Qualifications in Mathematics and English (1986-
2018): A Statistical Overview”. Staff are also involved in setting strategic and funding priorities, e.g.
the EPSRC Sandpit on Understanding the Physics of Cancer, Sheffield, 2016 (Mackenzie), EPSRC
Strategy Meeting for Data Science/Big Data Research, London, 2016 (Ramage), and EPSRC
Working Group on The People Pipeline, 2012-2015 (Davies).

Additional Impact-Focussed Activity
The Department’s SMART consultancy unit has had regular success in supporting a variety of
organisations, as illustrated by the following examples (not captured in our Impact Case Studies),
with some companies’ names withheld for confidentiality:


                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   A series of statistical CPD courses for a Japanese manufacturer of medical devices, helped
       it improve quality assurance procedures for its manufacturing processes (2018-2020).
   •   Mathematical consultancies for a Japanese company developing algorithms for non-
       destructive testing techniques (2018 and 2019).
   •   Modelling the likely annual number of cancer patients and required chemo- and radio-
       therapies up to 2025, to assist future demand planning for the West of Scotland Cancer
       Network, Scotland’s largest cancer centre seeing around 8,000 new patients per year (2017).
   •   Investigating key factors affecting the sales of products for a major Scottish retailer of bottled
       drinks, with particular focus on the weather, promotional activity, price and competition
       (2015).

External Fellowships
Departmental staff have been awarded 12 individual research fellowships since REF2014:
EPSRC/RCUK Digital Economy Established Career Fellowship (Higham, 2015-2019), Royal Society
Newton Advanced Fellowship (Mao, 2017-2020), EPSRC-UKRI Innovation Fellowship (Tant, 2018-
2021), Leverhulme Trust International Academic Fellowship (Majumdar, 2019-2020), Leverhulme
Trust Early Career Fellowship (Arrigo, 2019-2022), Leverhulme Trust Research Fellowship
(Barrenechea 2019-2020, Greenhalgh 2015-2017, Mackenzie 2014-2016, Ramage 2017-2019,
Steingrímsson 2018-2020, Wilson 2013-2016), Royal Academy of Engineering Intelligence
Community Postdoctoral Fellowship (Knight, 2019, for le Gorrec), and H2020 Marie Skłodowska
Curie Postdoctoral Fellowship (Higham, 2016, for Tudisco). Other notable external Fellowship
honours include three Fellows of the Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE) (Higham, Mao, Stewart), one
Fellow of SIAM (Higham), and four Fellows of the IMA (Mottram, Mulholland, Ramage, Wilson).

Contributions to National and International Professional Societies
As expected from our focus on collaborative and interdisciplinary research, staff are active over a
range of professional societies. Highlights include:

Senior Roles in National and International Societies
Ramage is an elected member of the Board of Trustees of SIAM, Higham was President of the SIAM
UK and Ireland Section (2015-2017), and Mackenzie was Vice President (2017-2019). Ramage and
Pestana were Vice President and Secretary, respectively, of the SIAM Activity Group on Applied
Linear Algebra (2016-2018). Pritchard is a Trustee and Member of the Executive of the Joint
Mathematical Council of the UK, Davies chairs the LMS Nominating Committee, and Higham is a
member of the Turing Gateway to Mathematics Programme Committee. As previously mentioned,
Pritchard is Director (2019-2021), and was previously Deputy Director (2016-2018), of the SMSTC.
He also chairs the Qualifications Development Team for the Prospective New Higher in Applications
of Mathematics for the SQA.

Prize and Grant Committee Membership
    • Awards Committee of the International Liquid Crystal Society (Osipov)
    • Carnegie Trust Science and Engineering Assessor (Mottram - Chair 2017, Ramage)
    • Global Challenges Research Funding Strategic Advisory Group (Majumdar)
    • Newton International Fellowships Committee: Physical Sciences (Estrada, Osipov, Wilson)
    • IMA Leslie Fox Prize Committee (Higham)
    • The London Mathematical Society (LMS) Prize Committee (Higham)
    • Royal Society Newton Advanced Fellowships Panel (Majumdar)
    • EPSRC Peer Review College (Davies, Greenhalgh, Higham, Mao, Mulholland, Ramage –
       Panel Chair, Wilson)

Other Professional Society and other External Committee Membership
   • Chair of Royal Statistical Society (RSS) Conference Board (2017-2020, Kavanagh)

                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Council for Mathematical Sciences (CMS) (2009-2014, Davies)
   •   ECMI Educational Committee (2015-2019, Grinfeld)
   •   European Mathematical Society (EMS) Policy Advisory Group (2014-2020, Davies)
   •   ICMS Programme Committee (2017-2021, Majumdar; 2020-2023, Wilson)
   •   IMA Scottish Branch (2014-2017, Mottram – Chair; Mulholland)
   •   LMS Research Policy (2011-2016, Davies)
   •   LMS Good Practice Scheme (2014-2020, Davies)
   •   RSE Learned Societies’ Group on Scottish STEM Education (2014-2021, Pritchard)
   •   RSS (2012-2020, Kavanagh)
   •   The Scottish Mathematical Council (SMC) (2015-2021, Pritchard)

Honours and Prizes
A major highlight for the Department since REF2014 was the award of the Order of the British Empire
(OBE) to Davies for Service to Mathematics (2014). Other notable honours include awards of the
Frederiksz Medal from the Russian Liquid Crystal Society for the “outstanding achievements in the
theory of liquid crystals” (Osipov 2018); the Hilsum Medal from British Liquid Crystal Society (Osipov
2015, Mottram 2017, Majumdar 2020); the Medal of the 2017 International Scholars' Forum by
Shanghai Normal (Mao 2017); the Prix Bull-Joseph Fourier 2015 (Dolean 2016); the RSE Sir James
Black Medal (Heath 2017); the RSE Sir Thomas Makdougall Brisbane Medal (Kavanagh 2018); the
2015 LMS Anne Bennett Prize and the 2019 FDM Everywoman in Technology Academic Leader
Award (Majumdar); Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Awards (Estrada 2014, Mao 2016); and
the 2020 Suffrage Science Award (Majumdar). Mao (Web of Science h-index 62) is included in Highly
Cited Researchers 2020.

Conference Participation and Organisation
Our staff are frequently invited to deliver plenary and keynote lectures at major international
conferences, and are very active in conference organisation. A representative sample follows:
   • Arrigo: XX Householder Symposium on Numerical Linear Algebra (USA, 2017)
   • Banas: 4th International Workshop on Trait-based Approaches to Ocean Life (UK, 2019)
   • Barrenechea: International Conference in Boundary and Interior Layers (Argentina, 2020)
   • Dolean: AARMS Workshop on Domain Decomposition Methods for PDEs (Canada, 2015)
   • Kleczkowski: Polish Academy of Sciences Institute of Nature Conservation Conference
       (Poland, 2019)
   • Langer: 4th Najman Conference on Spectral Problems for Operators and Matrices (Croatia,
       2015)
   • Mao: TCCT Conference on Stochastic Control (China, 2019)
   • Majumdar: Indian Woman in Mathematics Association Annual Conference 2017 (India, 2017)
   • McKee: International Conference on Current Trends in Theoretical and Computational
       Differential Equations with Applications (India, 2017)
   • Mackenzie: Workshop on Multi-Physics Geometric PDEs using Deformable Surfaces (UK,
       2015)
   • Mottram: SIAM Conference on Mathematical Aspects in Material Science (USA, 2018)
   • Osipov: 42nd German Liquid Crystal Conference (Germany, 2015)
   • Pestana: International Conference on Preconditioning Techniques for Scientific and
       Industrial Applications (The Netherlands, 2015)
   • Ramage: GAMM Workshop on Applied and Numerical Linear Algebra (Germany, 2019)
   • Robertson: RSS Annual Meeting (UK, 2017)
   • Sonnet: Stochastic and Deterministic Mathematical Methods for Biological and
       Environmental Systems (Portugal, 2017)
   • Wilson: International Conference on Interfacial Phenomena and Heat Transfer (China, 2017)




                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Organisation of Major International Conferences and Workshops
Major conferences organised by Department members at Strathclyde include the 26th, 27th and 28th
Biennial Numerical Analysis Conference (2015, 2017 and 2019), the MASTS Annual Science
Conference (2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018), and the RSS Annual Conference (2017). Other major
conferences co-organised by staff include:
   • SIAM Conference on Nonlinear Waves and Coherent Structures (Cambridge, 2014)
   • Jack Carr Memorial Workshop (Edinburgh, 2017)
   • SIAM Annual Meeting 2017 (USA, 2017)
   • SIAM Conference on Mathematical Applications of Materials Science (USA, 2018)
   • British Society of Rheology Mid-Winter Meeting (Edinburgh, 2018)
   • 11th International Conference on Machine Learning and Computing (China, 2019)
   • International Workshop on Modelling and Prediction of Harmful Algal Blooms (Glasgow,
       2020).

External Editorships and Editorial Board Memberships
Department members have chaired and served on a wide range of editorial boards during the REF
period, a representative sample follows:

Editorships
   • Higham: SIAM Review (Editor-in-Chief)
   • Osipov: Crystals (Section Editor, Liquid Crystals)
   • Ramage: SIAM Review (Associate Editor, Research Spotlights)
   • Wilson: Journal of Engineering Mathematics (Joint Editor-in-Chief)

Editorial Board Memberships
   • Davies: Journal of Integral Equations and Applications, Royal Society Open Science
   • Greenhalgh: Bulletin of Statistics and Economics, Contemporary Mathematics and Statistics,
       International Journal of Statistics and Economics, Journal of Biological Systems,
       Communication in Biomathematical Sciences, International Journal of Ecology and
       Development
   • Higham: IMA Journal of Numerical Analysis, Journal of Computational Finance, Journal of
       Complex Networks
   • Knight: SIAM Journal of Matrix Analysis and Applications
   • Langer: Complex Analysis and Operator Theory, Quaestiones Mathematicae
   • Majumdar: Mathematics and Mechanics of Solids, IMA Journal of Applied Mathematics,
       Computational and Applied Mathematics
   • Mao: Annals of Differential Equations, Advances in Difference Equations, Journal of Cogent
       Engineering, Journal of Differential Equations and Dynamical Systems, Mathematika
   • Mottram: Liquid Crystals, Journal of Engineering Mathematics
   • Pestana: SIAM Book Series on Fundamentals of Algorithms
   • Ramage: SIAM Journal of Matrix Analysis and Applications
   • Speirs: Journal of Biological Systems

UOA10 staff at Strathclyde take seriously their commitment to science in society in terms of
producing, directing and contributing to the highest quality research in Mathematics and Statistics.
This commitment extends to translating that research into useful outcomes for the benefit of society,
public sector organisations and industry, in alignment with the founding principles of Anderson’s
Institute as “A Place of Useful Learning”.




                                                                                            Page 18
