Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: University of the West of England, Bristol

Unit of assessment: 17 Business and Management Studies

Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Bristol Business School
‘Research with Impact’ threads throughout our work within the Bristol Business School (BBS).
Our vision has been to be internationally renowned for enterprising and practice-led teaching
and research that benefit students and society. Our mission over the REF period has been to be
an inclusive and innovative learning community, developing people and ideas to make a positive
impact in the world.

Reflecting our strong relationship with a variety of stakeholders locally, nationally and
internationally, we pride ourselves on being a partnership Business School where we encourage
interdisciplinary research:

   that meets the needs of a healthy, sustainable economy and society;
   informs real-world teaching and learning and enhancing the student experience;
   builds upon existing working relationships with a wide range of stakeholders as well as
    developing new partnerships regionally, nationally and internationally.

Our vision and mission, together with a focus on partnership, guides the development of our
research with impact, as evidenced through the variety of projects highlighted in section 4 and
through our submitted impact case studies. Our researchers focus on global challenges to have
real world impact, including research on: leadership to enable malaria elimination (Case - Case
Study – ‘Eliminating Malaria’) and improving livelihoods in Laos (Case - Case Study –
‘Livelihoods in Laos’); promoting women’s equality (Durbin - Case Study – ‘Women's Mentoring
Scheme’); providing solutions to enable sustainability (Hughes and Bradley - Case Study –
‘Sustainable Futures’) and improving policy-making around the world (Ritchie - Case Study –
‘Confidential Data’).

To achieve this, we have established a common vision of quality research with impact and
ensured researchers are well supported through targeting resources (see section 2). As well as
our international work, exemplified through our impact case studies, we have also worked
impactfully on national and regional agendas as evidenced through the work of Bolden and
Jarvis in making strategic links to the NHS Leadership Academy and Golden Key; and Oyedele
(with Big-DEAL colleagues) on driving down costs of improving thermal efficiency in existing
buildings in the UK through Artificial Intelligence and the Internet of Things. Oyedele (and
colleagues) has also helped to reduce waste from the UK construction industry through
developing an intelligent Building Information Modelling (BIM) system.

Our research supports practice-led teaching and learning: our students are often engaged as
research participants and partners. For example, BBS’s ‘Engaging the Workforce’ conference
(2018), chaired by Edwards, and sponsored by ‘Engage for Success’, the Construction Industry
Training Board (CITB) and the Institute of Leadership and Management (ILM), engaged more
than 200 managers and training professionals with research findings from CITB-sponsored
research. Vafeas’ bespoke interactive marketing masterclasses for Highlands and Islands
Enterprise (2018/19) and Vafeas and Hughes’ two-day marketing planning workshops for 150
SMEs in the South-West (2014) also link research with practice (see section 4).

Our vision going forward is aligned with UWE’s new 2030 Strategy which identifies ‘beacons of
excellence’ in digital futures, health and wellbeing, creative industries and technologies and
sustainability and climate change resilience (see Institutional Statement). BBS is well-placed not
only to make a key contribution to the beacons but is strategically positioned to have a key
connecting role across them. In doing so we will continue to undertake world-class research


                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
across our Centres and Groups that addresses real world needs; promotes interdisciplinary,
equality, diversity and inclusivity; integrates internationalisation, builds and sustains a vibrant
postgraduate research community, and is integrated with teaching and learning, knowledge
exchange, and partnership.

The three priorities are:

    Research excellence in business and management that is recognised as world-class,
     building and sustaining critical capacity and capability.
    Knowledge exchange and social, community and public engagement underpinned by
     partnerships that maximise the impact and return on investment of our research.
    An integrated approach to research and teaching, enriching the curriculum and
     consolidating our areas of excellence in business and management.

BBS is strategically positioned in a key connecting role where our success in international
collaboration and impact makes us an important catalyst in embedding management expertise in
cross-faculty research initiatives over the next ten years. For example. the Bristol Leadership
and Change Centre (BLCC) is taking learning and expertise from work completed on Malaria
elimination and developing livelihoods in Laos to tackling other global problems such as HIV
prevention.

1.2 Centres and Groups
To achieve the strategic objectives identified in 2014, we held a re-orientation exercise of our
Research Centres and Groups at the beginning of the current REF period. This exercise created
six interdisciplinary clusters that had the capability to conduct high quality impactful research:

      The Bristol Leadership and Change Centre (BLCC)
      The Bristol Centre for Economics and Finance (BCEF)
      The Big Data Enterprise and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (Big-DEAL)
      The Human Resources, Work and Employment (HRWE) Group
      The Applied Marketing Group (AMG)
      The Innovation, Operations Management and Supply (IOMS) Group.

An overview of each cluster is given below while more substantive information regarding
collaboration and contribution is given in section 4.

1.2.1 Bristol Leadership and Change Centre (BLCC)
Bristol Leadership and Change Centre (BLCC) explores the ways in which change is led,
mobilized and sustained in complex and uncertain environments. BLCC has a leadership team
of a Director (Prof. Richard Bolden) and two Deputy Directors (Prof. Carol Jarvis and Prof.
Gareth Edwards). Those in the group that also have significant responsibility for research are
Prof. Alan Tapp, Prof. Peter Case, Dr Svetlana Cicmil, Dr Peter Simpson, Dr Harriet Shortt,
Dr Olivier Ratle, Dr Neil Sutherland, Dr Yvette Morey, Dr Charles Booth, Dr Adrian Davis,
Dr Guru Prabhakar and Dr Jenna Pandeli. The Centre has six visiting Professors – Prof.
Jonathan Gosling, Prof. Julia Verne, Prof. Alan Hooper, Prof. Steve Kempster, Prof. Clive
Nancarrow and Prof. Iain Lovatt. The Centre also has a strong community of full and part time
PhD students and early career researchers. This diverse community of academics draws on
insights from fields including organisation studies, psychology, social marketing, philosophy and
anthropology to explore leadership, management and organisational practice in a wide range of
contexts.

To achieve the strategic objectives of the School, BLCC has purposefully taken a practical,
cross-disciplinary and evidence-based approach to supporting individuals, groups and
organisations, looking to develop their ability to adapt and thrive in complex and changing
environments. Our research has had impact by demonstrating that developing ‘good leadership’
requires careful consideration of the complex relationship between leaders and followers, as well


                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
as the organisational and cultural contexts in which they find themselves. We have also shown
that identity, ethics, language and power are just some of the factors that shape and influence
leadership processes, outcomes and interpretations.

We have shown impact through partnership with a range of organisations, including the NHS,
Public Health England and the Department of Transport, to produce positive impacts on health
and wellbeing. For example, the work of Bolden and Jarvis as independent evaluators for the
NHS Leadership Academy’s ‘Building Leadership for Inclusion’ initiative. The findings and
conclusions from this work have fed directly into the Academy’s input into the NHS People Plan
and its response to the disproportionate impact of Covid-19 on BAME staff. Further impact has
come from work led by Tapp which has informed policy and practice on road safety in Welsh,
Scottish and the Westminster Governments. This includes work on public opinion and driver
compliance with 20mph limits, the Wheels Skills and Thrills project, part of the UK Department
for Transport's stable of Young Driver Projects, and recognition from Public Health England
through funding research examining public opinion to old age and end of life care planning. In a
more international context, Case’s work has led a number of highly impactful organisation
development interventions in South-East Asia and southern Africa for the Malaria Elimination
Initiative, in collaboration with the University of California, San Francisco and the Bill and
Melinda Gates Foundation.

Critical, reflective and engaged scholarship is at the heart of what BLCC does, and feeds directly
into degree programmes and professional/executive education. For example, research led by
Edwards with the Construction Industry Training Board (CITB) on engagement and leadership
has fed into a programme, currently under development, to enhance skills for leaders in the
construction industry. This links back to the aims of our School strategy which highlight the need
to transfer research into learning opportunities.

1.2.2 Bristol Centre for Economics and Finance (BCEF)
BCEF, a home for researchers in economics, accounting and finance, has a Director, Prof. Felix
Ritchie who works with others with significant responsibility for research – Prof. Daniela Gabor,
Prof. Cherif Guermat, Dr Tom Ivlevs, Dr Ismail Adelopo, Dr Nadia Vanteeva, Dr Peter
Bradley, Dr Danielle Guizzo Archela, Dr Timothy Hinks, Dr Jo Michell, Dr Chris Carr, Dr
Eleni Papathanasopoulou, Dr Ian Smith, Zhifeng Chen and Damian Whittard. The Centre
has four visiting Professors from academia and industry – Jeremy Batstone-Carr, Independent
Consultant, Edward Fullbrook, Real-World Economics, Nick Griggs, Paul Keenan, Keenan
Regulatory Consulting Ltd. The Centre also has a strong community of full and part time PhD
students and early career researchers.

The BCEF research team has been an important contributor to the achievement of the School’s
strategic objectives under four key research themes: Modelling the Economy; People, places
and society; Business monitoring and evaluation; Understanding modern financial systems.

BCEF researchers take a wide range of approaches to the complex challenges involved in
Modelling the Economy. A team of macroeconomists study growth, trade, the informal economy,
and the impact of Brexit. Regional economists work collaboratively with organisations in the
South West to understand spatial differences and rural/urban effects. Several researchers study
the economies of developing countries and a large group lead research on sustainability and the
issue of the ‘circular economy’.

Research under People, places and society examines the relationship between the health,
wellbeing and happiness of an individual and how the demands of their work and career has
become an important issue to employers and employees. BCEF researchers specialise in
migration, low pay and inequality, well-being, and the development of education systems. The
sustainability team in BCEF use their expertise in pro-social consumer behavior to run
engagement conferences for academics, business and the general public.




                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Staff working in Business monitoring and evaluation look at how society views businesses, the
way they operate, and their effects on people and the environment. Across sectors, BCEF
researchers study corporate social responsibility, financial regulation, business modelling,
productivity and data management. Within sectors, BCEF staff have particular interests in
agricultural production in developing countries, and in financial management of charities.

The theme focusing on Understanding modern financial systems explores the changing role of
money, banks and financial systems. Researchers have an international reputation for
highlighting the risks in the growth of shadow banking, in understanding the increasing
financialisation of developing country debt, and in the challenges of ‘green monetary policy’.
BCEF also has a team of analysts who focus on econometric modelling of financial markets,
while others study the role of developments in fintech.

Underlying these areas is a deep collaborative expertise in data collection, quality analysis, data
management, and the use and effective presentation of data. BCEF researchers regularly advise
organisations, particularly in government, on how to manage, exploit and present their data
(examples include Eurostat, the Office for National Statistics, the Statistics Authority, HMRC, UK
Data Archive, Scottish Government, Administrative Data Research UK, UKRI, NHS Digital,
Australian Bureau of Stats, Statistics Canada, the European Commission, the Low Pay
Commission and the TUC). BCEF staff are regularly asked to give talks on economic matters to
non-specialist audiences and the media.

1.2.3 The Big Data Enterprise and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (Big-DEAL)
A key development in the achievement of our strategic aims has been investment in
infrastructure in order to grow our big-data research laboratory. The Big-DEAL group works
closely with a range of organisations, including Tier-1 contractors (e.g. Costain Limited, Winvic
Construction Limited, and Balfour Beatty), building management system original equipment
manufacturers (e.g. Schneider Electric), and SMEs (e.g. Waste Plan Solutions, Sustainable
Direction Limited, TerOpta, OneBigCircle). The Big-DEAL Director, Prof. Lukumon Oyedele,
who is also the Assistant Vice-Chancellor for Digital Innovation and Enterprise, works with a
varied team of researchers to develop cutting-edge solutions to support businesses. Members of
the Big-DEAL group with significant responsibility for research include - Dr Anuoluwapo Ajayi,
Dr Lukman Akanbi, Dr Olugbenga Akinade, Dr Muhammad Bilal, Dr Manuel Davila-
Delgado, Dr Hakeem Owolabi and Dr Xiaojun Luo.

Big-DEAL’s mission, in line with that of the School, is to develop a world-leading cross-
disciplinary research laboratory that leverages novel digital technologies to address current
needs and future challenges. The laboratory also aims to develop commercially sound digital
solutions that drive up commercial competitiveness and productivity, and that improve the quality
of life and well-being of society. Areas of research expertise include: artificial intelligence
(machine learning, deep learning, knowledge-based systems); big data analytics; immersive
technologies (augmented reality and virtual reality); simulation, mathematical modelling and
optimisation; the Internet of Things (IoT); and Digital Twins and Building Information Modelling
(BIM).

1.2.4 Human Resources, Work and Employment (HRWE) Group
The HRWE group undertakes research oriented towards human resource management and
employment from a critical perspective. Group members conduct research in five specialist
areas: equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI); HR and work; employment relations; labour
markets; and pedagogical research. HRWE is led by Prof. Susan Durbin supported by others
with significant responsibility for research - Prof. Hazel Conley, Dr Aykut Berber and Dr Hugo
Gaggiotti, and a strong community of full and part time PhD students and early career
researchers.

The group explores key human resource, work and employment research areas through a
critical, collaborative and intersectional perspective. EDI researchers, for example, focus upon
the gendered nature of work, men and women working in non-traditional employment roles,

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
gender pay gaps, LGBT pay gaps, the gendered construction of the meaning of work, corporate
egg freezing, the under-representation of women in senior management, female part-time
managers, inclusion at work, the psychology of ageing, planning for later life/end of life, women’s
corporate and professional networks, HR practitioners, equality and diversity and the role of
women volunteers.

Those with an HR/work perspective are involved in research with a focus upon manager-
employee interactions, line managers and performance management, newcomer and
socialization theory, project-based work, mentoring support, organisational resilience, liminal
spaces of work, mobility and commuting, HRM in SMEs, reduced hours working at executive and
senior levels in organisations, critical perspectives on management.

Employee relations research topics includes employee relations and trade union strategies, the
problems with low pay, apprentice pay, occupational regulation in the UK and trade union
representation, while those who take a broader labour market perspective are concerned with
entrepreneurialism, digital nomads, digitalisation, sociology of the professions, flexible labour
markets (zero hours contracts), and the Public Sector Equality Duty.

Pedagogical researchers share an interest in the responsible management of education, ethics,
participation and emancipation, student low pay, student academic skills, student perceptions of
impact on transition from foundation to university degree and student attitudes to working in the
third sector.

A key example of how the group is impacting on practice is the development of a mentoring
scheme (‘alta’, see Case Study – ‘Women's Mentoring Scheme’) which addresses the under-
representation of women in professional roles, in the context of a chronic industry skills shortage
in the UK aviation and aerospace industry, led by Durbin.

1.2.5 Applied Marketing Group (AMG)
The ethos of the AMG is that, for an applied subject such as marketing, it is crucial to maintain
close links and collaborate with the practitioner community. AMG is led by Dr Mario Vafeas
(previously co-led with Prof. Tim Hughes), under whose guidance the group undertakes firm
mentoring, consultancy, short courses tailored to industry need, and research, including via the
KTP scheme.

Examples of the research carried out by AMG include the collaborative project with BCEF that
has established new frameworks for co-creative sustainable development in organisations (Case
Study – ‘Sustainable Futures’); on-going research into value maximization in business-to-
business relationships; research into the impact of the digital economy on business and
consumers, including ethical issues; and research into environmentally-responsible and
sustainable behaviour in retail, events, and tourism.

A key aim of AMG research is to ensure that, besides contributing to the development of theory,
it has a direct impact on business practice. For example, research into business-to-business
relationships has been disseminated regionally, nationally, and internationally through keynote
speeches, podcasts, and workshops with organizations such as Bristol Media, the Data and
Marketing Association, Design Business Association, Chartered Institute of Marketing, and the
Agency Management Institute in the USA.

The Group delivers a variety of short courses including the Digital Marketing Institute’s
professional diploma in digital marketing as well as courses in strategic marketing planning and
marketing communications to SMEs. With backgrounds in industry prior to entering academia,
Group members ensure courses are relevant to the challenges faced by business and
collaborate closely with industry to enhance teaching and improve student employability,
including the establishment of several ‘Course Connects’ where firms contribute to content
development, teaching, and assessment. Vafeas, as a Member of the Regional Council (West
and Wales) for the Data and Marketing Association, provides a catalyst for a series of events

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
introducing students to the range of careers in marketing and the opportunity to meet local
employers.

1.2.6 Innovation, Operations Management and Supply (IOMS) Group
The IOMS team is co-led by Prof. Wendy Phillips and Prof. Vikas Kumar, supported by a
group with significant responsibility for research - Prof. Mohammed Saad, Dr Mel Smith, Dr
Kyle Alves; Dr Amit Mitra, Dr Dharm Kapletia, Dr Ximing Ruan and Dr Jianxiang Bi and a
strong community of full and part time PhD students and early career researchers.

IOMS is formed around the core disciplines of innovation, operations management and supply
chain management with particular expertise in the areas of redistributed manufacturing, lean,
industry 4.0, food supply chains, sustainability, procurement, complex networks, process
modelling and innovation. The group has been crucial in connecting our research to collaborative
networks led by Phillips working alongside practitioners, regulators and policy-makers to
reconsider our approaches to manufacturing, particularly location and scale. The COVID-19
pandemic has revealed the lack of resilience in global production systems supplies, emphasizing
the need for more distributed and localized supply networks. The group also has a strong focus
on internationalization and colleagues are involved in several international projects funded by
Newton Fund, Royal Academy of Engineering, British Council and British Academy working with
collaborators from Global South, Europe and Asia. For example, Kumar is working with
Brazilian, Vietnamese, Thai and Colombian colleagues to address the sustainability challenges
of the food sector in these regions.

1.3 Research Integrity
Our School reflects the strong culture of research integrity that has been developed through a
combination of robust policies and procedures, training and support, supervision and
management, including an updated University Code of Good Research Conduct, which
includes a robust Research Misconduct Procedure. The School is represented on a recently-
established Research Governance group who work with the Faculty Research and Knowledge
Exchange Committee (other members of which are highlighted in section 3) to ensure all
research projects within the faculty are adequately recorded on the University’s Research
Governance Record. This provides a self-assessment check-list to ensure relevant integrity
matters are considered and signposts information and guidance relating to key research
governance issues, including data protection, research data management, GDPR and research
ethics. Induction on the RGR was provided when the scheme was introduced in 2019, and is
refreshed periodically, most recently at the beginning of 2019/20.

All research projects are required to complete an ethics assessment form and projects
involving human participants require submission to the Faculty Research Ethics Committee
(and may be referred to the University Research Ethics Committee for full approval). All staff
including PGR supervisory teams are required to complete on-line ethics training as a condition
of submitting proposals, receiving internal funding or supervising PGRs. As a School, we
adhere to the University’s Data Protection Standard for Research which defines the framework
within which personal data processed for research purposes must be conducted and to comply
with relevant data protection requirements. All research involving the collection or use of data,
incuding postgraduate research, requires completion of a data plan before it commences.

1.4 Open Research
UWE is committed to the aims and principles of open research and encourages researchers to
explore the benefits of using open practices in their research. In BBS, we support open
research initiatives set out by the University through the Faculty RKE committee, working
closely with the library services, including:

      promoting the development and implementation of the Open Access Policy and Guidance
      ensuring that staff and PGR students engage with the institutional Research Repository
       by providing training at School, Faculty and University level
      regularly reminding colleagues to deposit their work on the ePrints data repository

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       supporting the implementation of ORCID ID for all researchers and promoting the
        SHERPA compliance tool.
       funding open-access publishing, supplementing UKRI resources.

Section 2. People

2.1 Overview
The School’s research strategy encourages ongoing improvement in the quality of research as
evidenced through peer-reviewed outputs that have real-world impact, including links to learning
and education. Initiatives aimed at supporting staff to enable this include:

      five weeks built into workloads for scholarly activity for all staff.
      a scheme to support staff enrolled on PhDs with fees waivers and dedicated time.
      support for early career researchers through the annual Vice-Chancellor’s awards.
      further workload support provided annually through our Research Excellence Award
       (REA), which aims to support staff who can demonstrate the capability or potential to
       undertake high quality research and produce high quality outputs based on collaboration
       and potential impact.

These initiatives, from doctoral study through to early career and mid-career researcher support
are highlighted in more detail below.

2.2 Developing Doctoral Studies
Our strategic vision of engaging in research with impact and in partnership with external
organisations and communities extends to our PGR community. To ensure that this is
implemented we have embedded six key initiatives within the School:

  1. A focus on attracting part-time home and EU students (which now comprise 50% of our
     cohort). We are particularly keen to supervise part-time students as they typically focus on
     ‘live’ organisational issues that often generate collaboration and impact.
  2. A newly developed DBA (professional doctorate) programme, which started in October
     2020, as part of our strategic objective to increase research on relevant issues in
     organisations that has a clear route to impact.
  3. A 50:50 industry/Faculty funded PhD bursary scheme with four such scholarships having
     been awarded so far in collaboration with Bristol City Council, Power to Change (a charity
     supporting community businesses), Oxford Innovation Ltd and New Concept Information
     Systems Pvt. Ltd.
  4. Investing in a new cohort of 10 fully funded PhD studentships; six have already been
     awarded and the remainder are due to start in October 2021.
  5. An internal scheme to support staff undertaking doctoral study. The scheme’s aim is to
     allow staff to engage in continuing professional development through doctoral research in
     priority areas and transfer their research back into teaching practice. Four BBS staff have
     been supported to do a PhD in this way in the past 5 years.
  6. An industry mentoring scheme to guide doctoral students, in addition to general UWE
     provision of career consultations. For example, a mentoring programme has been provided
     by Dr John Manley, a former research director of the HP Cloud, since 2015. This
     comprises workshops attended by 4-7 doctoral students at which he works intensely with
     the group to reflect on their career ambitions as well as providing insights into what the
     world of industry and practice expects of a PhD graduate and what the opportunities are
     for such graduates to have a fulfilling research career outside of academia.

Success in implementing our PGR initiatives is evident in the 54 PGR completions in the
REF2021 period 2014-2020, up from 31 in the last REF period. This marked increase owes
much to the strategic objective of BBS to ensure high quality of supervision. We have a robust
and compulsory supervisory training programme for all academics involved in doctoral
supervision with additional workshops for those specifically appointed as the Director of Studies


                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
for each student. Courses providing information and updates on UWE PGR regulations and
procedures must be undertaken every three years.

The Graduate School at UWE provides a wide range of courses aimed at PGR development,
mapped against the Vitae Research Skills Development Framework. PGR students are typically
given opportunities to teach as part of their academic development, and supported to do so with
training. Teaching commitments are regulated and limited in order to ensure that the teaching
undertaken is developmental rather than a hindrance to successful and timely completion. Every
effort is made to ensure that the allocated teaching matches the doctoral student’s area of
expertise, reinforcing the School’s ambition to provide research informed teaching. ‘Preparing to
teach’ workshops are integrated with both the PGR Induction programme and the Graduate
School’s Researcher Development offering.

Each PGR student is affiliated with a University-recognised Research Centre and/or Research
Group, to ensure their integration within the Faculty’s overall research activity and environment.
There are two, sizable, open-plan PhD offices at the heart of our new building (see section 3)
with a fully IT equipped desk dedicated to each full-time PGR student. This means that students
are co-located, and work in the vicinity of their supervisors and other academics. The PGR
cohort is engaged in all areas of Faculty research operations and has representatives as active
members of Faculty Research Degrees Committee, Faculty Research and Knowledge Exchange
Committee and the Faculty Research Degrees Committee.

BBS has, for almost 20 years, successfully run an annual doctoral symposium (now known as a
Doctoral Research Showcase) with PGRs presenting their work in poster and PowerPoint
formats. With a long tradition and excellent attendance from across the Faculty, University and
beyond, these events are always well received and regarded as friendly, supportive and
enjoyable gatherings at which we promote PGRs’ work and learn from each other. A supervisor
of each presenter takes part in the Showcase as their discussant, explaining the broader context
of the project and how it fits with the portfolio of the given Research Centre or Group. As well as
offering vital developmental value to our postgraduate researchers, the event also provides an
opportunity to show how our doctoral research contributes to the Faculty’s research ambitions.

The School provides doctoral candidates with networking opportunities by:

   Involving them in events which give them opportunities to meet academics and
    practitioners outside of UWE and open up possibilities for new or related research ideas or
    career paths. e.g. conferences such as the International Studying Leadership Conference
    (ISLC) and Distinguished Address series.
   Making sure PhD students are on circulation lists announcing internal (and external)
    research seminars, teaching and learning workshops and events.
   Organising tailored events for networking with fellow PhD researchers across UWE and
    beyond, for example, an annual PGR Residential Summer School, a four day retreat
    available to PGRs from UWE and other HEIs in the region with a structured
    developmental programme covering personal, research and career developmental
    needs. The programme is led by UWE and delivered collaboratively by senior
    academics and training consultants.

2.3 Developing Early Career Researchers
The University provides Vice-Chancellor’s Early Career Researcher (ECR) Development Awards
to particularly promising staff. These awards are worth up to £15,000 to support projects
designed to accelerate their research trajectory and position them to bid for significant external
funds. The award can be used to cover short-term salary costs, replacement teaching, research
assistance, technical support, equipment, consumables or travel and subsistence. During the
REF cycle, 20 members of BBS staff benefitted from these awards. Some early examples
include Vafeas (2014/15), who was granted £9k to research ‘Value co-creation and its influence
on client-agency relationships’ and Bradley (2014/15), who was granted £15k to research
‘Understanding and assessing businesses models for sustainability’. Both these researchers

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
now have significant responsibility for research, one being a research group lead (Vafeas for the
AMG) and the other contributing to an impact case study (Hughes and Bradley - Case Study –
‘Sustainable Futures’). Other examples are Michell (2015/16), awarded £15k to research
‘Developing a multi-agent framework for monetary macroeconomic analysis’ and Dr Selen Kars
(2017/18), also awarded £15k to research ‘Innovation as everyday practical coping: A framework
for leveraging innovation in difficult circumstances’.

In addition, BBS encourages ECRs with opportunities to collaborate across faculties to create
inter-disciplinary teams to tackle real world issues. Some examples include workshops where
BBS academics are introduced to colleagues in the three other UWE faculties at research speed
dating events. Resulting collaborations include; Green (BBS) and Presence (Arts and Creative
Industries) on ‘Assessing the impact of Covid-19 on Bristol’s Film and Television industries’,
Lerigo-Sampson (BBS) and Bray (Applied Sciences) on ‘An interdisciplinary approach
exploring the mental health and well-being of social media influencers (SMIs)’ and Tava (Applied
Sciences) and Green (BBS) on Advanced Ethical Models of Data Governance (each were
awarded £5k as seed corn funding). These projects also reflect BBS’s response to a connecting
and collaborative role in responding to UWE’s 2030 research beacons with links to all four
beacons - digital futures, health and wellbeing, creative industries and technologies and
sustainability and climate change resilience.

Support is also provided for ECRs through:

   formal mentoring schemes like the UWE-wide Women in Research Mentoring Scheme
    (WRMS) - female early career researchers in particular are encouraged to participate.
   department-wide informal mentoring whereby early career researchers are matched with a
    senior colleague on appointment to share knowledge and experience.
   workshops throughout the academic calendar specifically for ECRs that look at topics such
    as ‘Bidding for Small Grants’, ‘Grant Writing’ and ‘Writing for Academic Publication’.
   time for research for ECRs can be secured through the annual review of workload whereby
    they will secure an additional half a day a week for research activities.
   the University’s Researchers Forum which provides a platform for research grade staff to
    consider matters of common interest, researcher-specific development activities and a
    voice for the researcher community (Monyei from the Big-DEAL group has been on the
    Forum Steering Group during the REF period)

2.4 Developing Staff with Significant Responsibility for Research
BBS seeks to appoint and support research active staff through career development
opportunities and workload allocation for research purposes. This has enabled our School to
thrive over the current REF assessment period with the increased level of staff and outputs. This
is evident in the increased number of staff whose work is being submitted to this unit in
REF2021; 33 FTE staff were submitted in REF2008, 34.1 FTE staff in 2014 and for REF2021 we
have 50.5 FTE individuals with significant responsibility for research (SRR). This growth reflects
the strategic objective of BBS through encouraging staff to develop their research with impact
which, in turn, we reward with promotion to Associate Professor (13 promotions in the REF
period) and Professor (seven promotions in the REF period) or through increased levels of time
for research and related activities (within our annual review), enabling staff to be considered to
have SRR within the School.

As alluded to above, the School invests significant resources every year in the form of Research
Excellence Awards (REA) where it invites applications annually to reward staff for their research
achievements and future research plans. This annual review is consistently guided by our
strategy for impact and partnership, so individual researchers that can show evidence of impact,
and collaboration will be supported with equivalent or more time for research. The focus of this
annual review has begun to morph towards our next strategic objectives for 2030 which involve
connection and collaboration in research with impact associated with the four research beacons
highlighted in section 1.


                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

In addition to the annual review, BBS is also proactive in using personal development reviews
alongside coaching and mentoring to ensure staff time for research is planned and prioritised in
the context of overall workloads and time management, including scholarship and internally-
funded time. From these reviews, opportunities for research staff to become involved in CPD
and Professional Executive Development are highlighted, encouraged and funded.

A third strand to the development of collaborative and impactful researchers is support for
coaching and mentoring, this includes the Women in Research Mentoring Scheme (WRMS)
which aims to promote and facilitate professional development for women researchers working
at UWE, helping them to develop high quality and impactful research, and encourages them to
reach senior research roles. This is a University-wide scheme that has benefitted 15 staff from
BBS over the REF assessment period, including some that are considered to have significant
responsibility for research - Morey, Pandeli and Guizzo Archela. Other experienced staff have
contributed to this scheme through being mentors – Jarvis, Edwards, Conley, Phillips, Kumar,
Durbin and Shortt. Four of these researchers have also been active on the institutional steering
committee for the scheme – Shortt, Edwards, Jarvis and Durbin.

Additional, significant investment has been made to recruit internationally-regarded staff to
increase our level of high-quality research with impact. Indicative of BBS’s strategy of promoting
research talent, the School was successful in securing a Wallscourt Fellowship as part of a
University initiative to invest in areas of research strength. Appointees have at least 50% of their
time devoted to high quality research. BBS’s Wallscourt Fellow (Carr) was appointed in an area
of strategic priority, Financial Technology, to explore various aspects of cryptography, blockchain
technology, and disruptive financial technologies, as well as to help address a skills gap in an
emerging domain.

2.5 Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity (EDI)
The University’s goal is to 'make UWE Bristol a supportive and inspiring place to learn and work
- somewhere where diversity of experience and perspective is encouraged and learning and
research is shared and accessible'. Our School has an EDI task force and supports the
University’s vision on EDI in a range of initiatives that reflect the importance of EDI within
research conducted within the School, including a Single Equality Scheme, Athena SWAN, being
a Stonewall Diversity Champion, being a Disability Confident employer and a Mindful Employer.

BBS advocates an equality and staff development agenda via a range of training and support
processes. For example, staff complete a mandatory on-line equality and diversity training
program, and are able to attend specific training relating to EDI issues such as Unconscious
Bias, Diversity in Practice – Working with LGBT+ Communities, Disability Confident, Sexual
Harassment in the Workplace and Understanding Bias.

Individual circumstances that may impact on research are also taken into account. For example,
if a staff member is considered to have a recognized disability (after an occupational health
assessment) their line manager makes reasonable adjustments to their workload and working
practices. For research-active staff this may include a reduction in teaching commitment to
enable the individual to focus on their research. Staff members who return from extended sick or
compassionate leave are phased back into their full hours which, if they are researchers, usually
means their teaching workload is reduced for a period.

Some BBS research work include strong links to issues of equality and inclusion. An example
includes ongoing research on gender equality in organizations (Conley and Durbin plus the
wider HRWE Research Group) as represented by one of our impact case studies (Case Study –
‘Women's Mentoring Scheme’). Bolden and Jarvis have been involved in research that is
tackling issues of inclusion in the NHS and in the City of Bristol (see sections 3 and 4). Staff
have also benefited from, and contributed to, the University-wide initiative to support women
researchers, the Women in Research Mentoring Scheme, noted above.



                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Income
In order to deliver the strategic goals of BBS we created a target to double external research
funding from £2.5 million (over the previous REF exercise) to £5 million. We have achieved and
exceeded this target: by the end of the REF2021 cycle we have a total research income of £7.5
million. This funding underpins our objective to support research with impact, strategic
partnerships, collaborative connections and sustainable networks. Furthermore, as evidenced in
the CABS 2020 report, BBS has consistently been in the top five business schools over the last
five years for income generation and is currently first amongst the Alliance Group of universities,
11th among the non-affiliated business schools and 20th overall in the UK
(https://charteredabs.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/05/77403-CABS-Research-Income-Report-
2020-WEB-final.pdf). The School monitors funding success through income secured per annum
from external sources, measured in absolute terms and per FTE academic staff number for each
Research Centre, laboratory and group. These are key performance indicators that will continue
to be monitored in the delivery of our 2030 research strategy.

Since 2014, our strategy has been to target funders that promote collaboration and impact. We
have had success in bids to the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, ESRC, UK Innovate, the
British Academy and the Knowledge Transfer Partnership programme, for example, all of which
identify collaboration and potential impact as factors in assessing grant applications. We have
achieved this level of success through the provision of ongoing support for Centres, the
laboratory and groups in the development and maintenance of user and other engagement
networks, through the Research Excellence Allocation (REA) process to target individual
achievement, and staff development and appraisal processes to bring on emerging researchers.
We have monitored this continued success through Research Centre, laboratory and group
quarterly reports at our Faculty Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee meetings
chaired by the Faculty Research Director.

Detailed in various parts of this statement is the long-running success of Oyedele and
colleagues from our Big-DEAL Laboratory, who have secured in total, with partners, more than
£11.5 million in funding. This includes a number of large grants from Innovate UK (total £5.5m),
the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (DBEIS) (total £1.5m), the
Technology Strategy Board (£1.1m) and EPSRC (£1.5m). Further to this is the continued
success in gaining income (total with partners £1.1m) for the research by Case on malaria
elimination, HIV prevention and livelihoods in Laos, which has been highlighted elsewhere in this
statement and has led to two impact case studies.

Further examples of long-running success include the work of Gaggiotti (HRWE) who has been
awarded sustained external funding for his research work on the Mexican borderlands, including
a British Academy Award under the Newton Mobility Grants Scheme in 2015 and a further grant
under the Newton scheme in 2016 for research to apply organisational ethnography to study
business and organising in the American-Mexican borderlands. The aim was to consolidate
research capacity in Mexican borderlands and to lead the development of a formal education
programme, with the ultimate objective of promoting socio-economic welfare in Chihuahua by
exploiting the knowledge of professional organisational practices to help to solve the social and
economic needs of families, children and young people in Ciudad Juarez.

Other notable bidding successes include:

   £1.7m EPSRC Redistributed Manufacturing in Healthcare Network grant (Phillips, IOMS,
    2017)
   £1.2m from the European Commission to research ‘Public procurement of innovative
    sustainable energy solutions’ (Saad, BCEF, 2014)
   funds for numerous projects totaling £650k (Ritchie, BCEF)
   funds for research on policy and practice in road safety and other wider transport
    management issues totaling £617k (Tapp, BLCC)

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    funds for research on gender equality research totaling £375k (Conley, Durbin, HRWE)
    £250k for Gabor’s (BCEF) research on the shadow side of banking
    £240k for Akinade’s (BIG-Deal) research on Computer Vision and the Internet of Things
     (IoT) for Personalised Site Monitoring Analytics in Real-Time (CV-SMART) towards
     Behaviour-Based Safety
    several projects worth £207k in total for research work in the public sector on leadership
     and change (Bolden, Jarvis, BLCC)
    a new one year project from the British Academy/Leverhulme Small Research Grant
     Scheme for Gaggiotti (HRWE) to study how isolation and homophily affect international
     workers and expatriates (2020)

Reflecting our strategic objective to achieve excellent research with a clear route to impact, we
have had notable success in gaining Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs), in particular
Management KTPs. Already mentioned is our award winning KTP by Hughes with Viper
Innovations and another with Dycem Ltd. Further success has been secured by Smith, Alves
and Edwards looking at technological change, supply chain management and leadership in a
growing SME, bringing our total income from KTP to £385K.

3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities
BBS is based in a £55m building, opened in 2017, which offers learning spaces for individual
and group study, interactive learning environments and conference rooms. In total, we have a
17,200m2 space serving 5,500 students and containing 148 offices over 7 floors. For PGR,
state-of-the-art facilities are provided, with dedicated office space, IT support, and access to the
Library. Reflecting our strategic objectives, there is dedicated space for staff, students and
businesses to meet, collaborate and form new partnerships. Businesses can take advantage of
facilities that include rooms available for hire and we can help cater for events, conferences, and
training. For individuals who require a semi-permanent base, such as those taking part in self-
study learning sets for various business programmes, the Business Engagement Centre offers
an executive education suite and meeting spaces. Our research staff and students therefore
have the opportunity to meet and collaborate with real businesses using the School’s facilities.
We have also invested in a new, dedicated space for the Big-DEAL Research Laboratory, our
Business Advice Clinic and the Bristol Business Engagement Centre (BBEC) (highlighted in
section 3.3 below).

Research development is led and supported through the School’s network of senior managers
and professional service staff headed by the Faculty Executive Dean and Associate Dean for
Research, supported by our Director of Research, Research Centre Directors and Group heads,
our ethics committee chair and research governance lead. . This network meets regularly
throughout the year to review and support progress in achieving our research strategic
objectives.

A University-wide Research, Business and Innovation (RBI) service supports all research
activities, including support to staff to identify funding opportunities, assistance with bid
preparation, the provision of professional development through a Researcher Skills Development
programme, facilitation of business and public engagement, and advice and support on
intellectual property, technology transfer, research integrity and ethics.

3.3 The Bristol Business Engagement Centre (BBEC)
We have taken concrete steps to ensure that our external engagement portfolio remains a core
part of the academic life and functioning of BBS, as opposed to a discrete standalone function.
For example, the establishment of the Bristol Business Engagement Centre (BBEC) in 2016
ensured a deliberate, hybrid, focus on growing commercial income through Executive Education
(derived from teaching and research programmes) while at the same time ensuring that the
linkages formed with industry become infused into the life of the school around curriculum
delivery, research application, and academic staff engagement. Examples include:



                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   Taking a conscious decision to reduce the use of external consultants, and concurrently
    focusing on ensuring greater participation of academic staff in executive education
    delivery. For example, all our open programmes are delivered exclusively by UWE staff
    which promotes our strategic objective of linking research directly to teaching and practice.
   Initiating and growing a network of Business and Industry Fellows whereby senior
    industrialists support the growth and development of our students, staff, and academic
    programmes on a pro bono basis, essentially acting as knowledge exchange agents,
    encouraging practitioners to engage in our research
   Piloting the rollout of Subject Business Associates (now Department External Engagement
    Leads) whose role is to support external engagement at the departmental level; again
    helping to link research to practice and explore pathways to impact.
   Launching Course Connect, an initiative that connects relevant external organisations (e.g.
    formed through commercial relationships) with key subject areas, ensuring a consistent
    and sustainable bi-directional relationship between the curriculum/students and external
    organisations operating in real world contexts. The partner organisations in return gain
    access to a range of incentives including discounted attendance on executive education
    programmes and facilitated access to the School’s research base.

Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

BBS takes great pride in the collaborations and partnerships that are fostered in order to deliver
research with impact and to ensure we make a positive contribution to economy and society.
Each Research Centre, laboratory and group collaborates in a multitude of ways through inter-
disciplinary research with a broad array of partners seeking to make impact. Examples from
each are highlighted below:

4.1 Bristol Leadership and Change Centre (BLCC)
Examples of collaboration and contribution within BLCC include three inter-linked projects led by
Case to improve the design and delivery of state-run smallholder farmer support services in
Laos (Case Study – ‘Livelihoods in Laos’). This is a collaboration with James Cook University in
Australia and a network of District Agriculture and Forestry Offices (DAFO) in Laos and has
resulted in; a £900,000 gross increase in incomes for 1,353 households over a four-year period;
a formal Policy Brief to the Lao Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry recommending nationwide
up-take of the approach; and international attention from such institutions as the Swiss Agency
for Development and Cooperation, the United Nations Development Programme and the World
Bank.

The research conducted by Case on organisational systems in malaria zones has also had a
significant impact on international efforts to eradicate the disease (Case Study – ‘Eliminating
Malaria’) through high level international collaborations. Backed by the Bill and Melinda Gates
Foundation-funded Malaria Elimination Initiative, the work involved collaboration with the
University of California, San Francisco (UCSF) to introduce a new approach to tackling malaria
in Vietnam, Zimbabwe, Eswatini and Namibia. Capacity building of healthcare professionals and
the development of accredited training for National Malaria Control Programme staff has created
sustainable impacts in these regions.

Other examples of BLCC collaborations include:

A team including Bolden and Edwards was commissioned by a consortium of organisations
including the NHS, Public Health England and the Leadership Centre for Local Government to
evaluate the Systems Leadership: Local Vision initiative, where partner agencies in health, local
government, police, voluntary sector and others worked together to address issues such as
intergenerational obesity, dementia, and the integration of health and social care services. The
project informed the recent NHS framework for action on improvement and leadership
development.

In 2017 a team led by Bolden and Jarvis was appointed as independent evaluator and

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
academic partner for the NHS Leadership Academy’s ‘Building Leadership for Inclusion’
initiative. This national project aims to update approaches to equality, diversity and inclusion,
build leadership capability to enable significant progress on inclusion and to address under-
representation at all levels in the NHS and partner agencies. This work has fed directly into the
Academy’s work on leadership and inclusion, including input to the NHS People Plan and
response to the disproportionate impact of Covid-19 on BAME staff.

Bolden has been commissioned as local evaluator for Bristol Golden Key - an eight-year
programme (running until 2021), funded through the National Lottery’s Fulfilling Lives initiative.
This aims to unlock access to services for people with complex multiple needs, including
homelessness, mental health problems, drug/alcohol dependency and criminal offending
behaviour. Golden Key is a collaborative partnership of statutory and not-for-profit agencies
across Bristol (including NHS, police, probation, City Council, Second Step, Bristol Drugs
Project, St Mungos, 1625ip and BLCC).

Tapp's work has contributed to public opinion and driver compliance with 20mph speed limits.
His ‘Wheels Skills and Thrills’ project is part of the UK Department for Transport's stable of
Young Driver Projects and has received over £0.5m of funding to date. It is the only one of DfT’s
projects to specifically focus on drivers from deprived areas. Tapp has also received over £200k
from Public Health England to fund projects examining public opinion and disposition to respond
to old age and end of life care planning, in collaboration with UWE’s Centre for Public Health and
Wellbeing. This work has informed PHE policies on their funding of Dying Matters and Advance
Care Planning initiatives.

Shortt led the Post-Occupancy Evaluation project ‘A Toolkit to Living in a New Building’ which
has influenced the work of partners, Stride Treglown (architects) and ISG (construction
company) and improved their understanding and design of higher education buildings. With
funding of £50,000 over two-years (2018-2020), the project uses innovative visual methods to
explore a full year cycle of an HE building. More than 250 participants contributed to the study
which has resulted in the production of a set of future-focused recommendations and value
propositions for stakeholders involved in commissioning new university accommodation.

Shortt is co-leading a £10,000 Higher Education Innovation Funding/ Grants 4 Growth Scheme
project with UWE colleagues and industry partners, BAM and Hydrock on 'Building a sense of
wellbeing and identity – a visual study of building pre-occupancy with designers, HE staff and HE
students'. Shortt’s research on workspace and place, which included this project and others such
as a post-occupancy project with the Environment Agency, have gained significant attention from
national and international organisations such as Maverick AV solutions, The Working Parent
Company, Work Wise UK, The Gainsborough ‘Phenomenal Women’ Series and Linklaters.

The Leadership Evaluation Collaboratory is a network of practitioners and academics (involving
BLCC’s Edwards and Bolden with partners from Lancaster and Winchester Universities) that
promotes learning and experimentation around different approaches to evaluating leadership
development and organisational change. Initiated in 2015, the Collaboratory was supported by
funding from the NHS Leadership Academies of the South West and the Thames Valley and
Wessex regions and continues to engage a broad network of professionals from the public,
private and not-for-profit sector.

Pandeli undertook a ten-month ethnographic study of modern prison labour as part of her
ESRC-funded doctorate. The research used observation and interviews to explore prisoners’
experiences of completing work, inside prison, for private companies. The research has led to a
Sage Prize in Excellence and Innovation (2020). As a result of her work, Pandeli was invited to
participate in a BBC Work Service Podcast on prison labour and has been invited to contribute to
several Online Magazines and Blogs (e.g. Futures of Work and Work-in-Progress).

Other examples of collaboration include Davis who has been appointed an Honorary Professor
at Moray House School of Sport & Education, University of Edinburgh (2019-2022) and a Fellow

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
of the Faculty of Public Health through Distinction. Cicmil was awarded the 2017 Research
Achievement Award from PMI (Project Management Institute, USA). Bolden was commissioned
by the Singapore Civil Service College in 2016 to explore the paradoxes and tensions
experienced by public sector leaders and managers in Singapore. Case’s work has had
documented impacts in the Greater Mekong Sub-region, his BMGF Background Paper was
adopted by the Clinton Health Access Initiative (CHAI). In 2018, based on the international
reputation of his malaria programme management work, Case was invited by Dr David
Heymann, Director of the Centre on Global Health Security, to act as a discussant for a
‘Rethinking Malaria’ conference held at Chatham House. Co-founded by Cicmil and partners
from the University of Manchester Business School and the Royal Institute of Technology,
Stockholm, 'Making Projects Critical' (MPC) is an on-going academic-practitioner collaborative
project. Tapp provided expert advice on social marketing through the ‘re-engaging into work
project’ (2018) for the UK Government Department for Work and Pensions. He has also
contributed to the Scottish Parliament via an expert seminar on 20mph speed limits, as an expert
to the Welsh Assembly Roundtable, and as Keynote to the European Police Federation
Conference (all 2018). From 2018 onwards, Edwards initiated and chaired an interdisciplinary
action group, The Transforming Construction Working Group (TCWG) that meets on a monthly
basis to collaborate on research funding bids and development opportunities. The group
includes members from industry and colleagues from BBS and from UWE’s Faculty of
Engineering and Technology.

4.2 Bristol Centre for Economics and Finance BCEF
Research by BCEF led by Ritchie has explored how governments re-use information to bring
substantial public benefit in the form of better health care, improved policy-making and better
services (Case Study – ‘Confidential Data’). BCEF researchers developed conceptual
frameworks, new statistical models, management tools and best practice training which has
dramatically changed the way governments exploit data. The UWE model is seen as the most
important basis for public sector data sharing in the UK and is used by statistical agencies in
Canada, New Zealand and Australia.

Bradley’s research has provided the basis for interventions and strategy within energy
companies, charities and community interest companies, amongst others. His work has helped
establish business models that are more environmentally, economically and socially sustainable
and as we highlight in section 4.6 contributes towards one of our impact studies (Case Study –
‘Sustainable Futures’).

Ritchie’s research has influenced the setting of, and compliance with, the UK’s minimum wage,
showing how the minimum wage is a psychological marker, influencing both wages paid and
perceptions of ‘fair’ wages. The research led directly to the setting of the minimum wage at £6.50
in 2014. It also enabled the Low Pay Commission to identify data errors and improve data
quality. Subsequent advice led to a major survey being de-commissioned and a new one
commissioned in line with UWE recommendations. The research has also shown why so many
apprentices are paid below the legal minimum and recommended an ‘app’ targeted at
apprentices which the Trade Union Congress has implemented.

Ritchie’s model of the ‘Five Safes’ of data governance has been widely influential: it is cited in
the South Australia Public Sector (Data Sharing) Act 2016, section 7; drives the research data
provisions of the Digital Economy Act 2017 (DEA); and in 2021, relabelled as ‘the Five Data
Sharing Principles’, will become the basis for legislation for all government data sharing in
Australia. The Office for National Statistics (ONS) was awarded the ‘Cyber Resilience Innovation
of the Year’ award at the ‘Digital Leaders 100’ Awards in June 2017 for its implementation of the
‘Five Safes’ based on advice provided by Ritchie. BCEF’s expertise in confidential data has led
to their advice being sought by the UK Data Archive, HESA, ONS, the Health Foundation, the
Australian Department of Social Services, Eurostat, and the statistics offices of Canada, Greece,
Mexico and New Zealand. Most recently, the Covid-19 outbreak led several organisations to
contact Ritchie for guidance on moving their data security training on-line.



                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Gabor has explored questions of critical macro-finance, in particular the co-evolution of market-
based finance and macroeconomic policy, building theoretical and empirical bridges between
academia, civil society and policy-making worlds. She has chaired the External Review Group
for Sustainable Finance for the UK Labour Party, whose final report (November 2019) informs
the Labour Party position on Green Finance.

Gabor has also developed a monetary theory of shadow money(ness) that builds on previously
neglected questions of temporality. This helps conceptualize the distinctive fragilities of shadow-
money: its temporality renders shadow money(ness) a complex fiction reliant on securities
markets liquidity. The fiction, Professor Gabor’s research argues, requires a new social contract
around (shadow) money that re-shapes the relationship between the central bank, the state in its
capacity as debt issuer, and shadow money-issuing institutions. These questions are
approached through a comparison of shadow money creation in the US, Euro area and China.

Gabor’s work has attracted the attention of central banks and regulators and she has provided
expert advice to the European Parliament on the European Commission’s Capital Markets Union
project, given numerous seminars to central banks and is engaging in public debates on money
through financial and social media. On issues of sustainability and green finance, she worked
with the Heinrich Boll Foundation, producing reports on the international development agenda on
sustainability that were presented at the Annual World Bank and IMF meetings in Washington,
DC (October 2019). Gabor has published on the European Green Deal in the Guardian, and
regularly publishes op-eds in the Financial Times.

Other notable instances of contribution have been:

    BCEF’s Report on ‘Financial Resilience in Charities’ which was cited in the House of Lords
     report ‘Stronger charities for a stronger society’, March 2017 by the Select Committee on
     Charities (p72) by Lord Bisham.
    The article ‘Local-level immigration and life satisfaction: The EU enlargement experience in
     England and Wales’ by Ivlevs influenced the Migration Advisory Committee report to the
     UK government on the impact of EEA immigration and the UK post-Brexit immigration
     policy.
    Ivlevs has reviewed research grants for the Croatian Science Foundation (2018), the
     Dutch Research Council (2018) and ESRC (2015).
    Guermat holds a visiting Professorship at Mutah University, Jordan (2013-present).
    Gabor was called as an expert witness at the Public Hearing on the Economic Impact of
     Covid-19 at the European Parliament (2020).

4.3 Big Data Enterprise and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (Big-DEAL)
Oyedele and Akinade, in partnership with Queen’s University Belfast and Balfour Beatty
Construction Services UK, developed a BIM-based software solution to facilitate the reduction of
construction waste by the UK construction industry, right from the design phase of the project
lifecycle. The project produced BIM-software (BIM Waste) as a Revit Add-in to support architects
and design engineers to minimise construction project waste during the design stage.

Oyedele, Akanbi and Akinade have also developed a BIM-based tool for identifying and
estimating the quantity of valuable building materials that are recoverable at the end-of-life of
buildings. Demolition waste comprises significant proportion of valuable building materials that
could be re-used for new constructions and refurbishment. However, no tool existed that could
help in the identification of valuable building materials for reuse and recycling. The DRIM project
was carried out in collaboration with Coventry University, Waste Plan Solutions Limited, and
Sustainable Direction Limited.

Oyedele, Davila-Delgado and Bilal, in collaboration with Balfour Beatty Power Transmission
and Distribution, have developed an integrated solution comprising an optimised BIM simulation
tool, a quick planner and a project on a page (POAP) summary that interacts with Big Data
Analytics to help stakeholders to plan and control project activities. The solution provides data-

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
driven insights to facilitate project teams in undertaking critical decisions during the project
lifecycle stages. Apart from helping to digitise the construction process and eliminating
operational inefficiencies, the project harnessed data and AI to support the vision of the UK
government to transform the construction industry and improve productivity.

Oyedele and Bilal have investigated Real-time Emission Visualisation’ (REVIS), in collaboration
with Costain, TerOpta, Energy Maintenance Technologies and Brunel University, which aims to
provide a step-change in decision-making and behavioural change for emissions reduction and
will enable local authorities to devise and test emissions reduction policies tailored to their
communities. REVIS will use IoT-sensors to measure the amount of NO2 and CO2 emissions on
roads and highways and visualise them in real-time.

Oyedele, Ajayi, Akinade and Davila-Delgado have been working on Internet of Things (IoT)
enabled platforms for monitoring rail assets in order to facilitate migration to a Predictive
Maintenance regime (i-RAMP) and a Real-time Energy Analytics Platform (i-REAP) for
commercial buildings. Sponsored by the Department for Transport through Innovate UK, the
research was carried out in conjunction with Costain Limited, and Enable My Team, an SME with
expertise in developing bespoke digital solutions for the infrastructure industry. The i-RAMP and
i-REAP systems employed techniques in AI, IoT and Augmented Reality to enable real-time
monitoring, predictive and preventive maintenance of rail assets. Currently at the trial stage, the
project's outputs have huge potential to signiﬁcantly reduce time to ﬁx failures and provide better
value to end users.

Furthermore, two articles published by the BIG-Deal group have been the most downloaded
publications from the Journal of Building Engineering in the first quarter of 2020
(https://www.journals.elsevier.com/journal-of-building-engineering/most-downloaded-articles).

4.4 Human Resources, Work and Employment (HRWE) Group
As mentioned above, a mentoring scheme (alta) (Case Study – ‘Women's Mentoring Scheme’),
led by Durbin, was launched across the UK aviation and aerospace industry in March, 2019.
The alta Mentoring Platform is now part of the mentoring ‘offer’ of the Royal Aeronautical Society
and the other founding partners. Over 300 women and several large companies in the industry
have so far signed up as mentors, mentees and supporters.

Conley’s work on ‘The gender equality duty in local government: the prospects for integration’,
Industrial Law Journal (2010), was cited in a House of Commons Briefing Paper Number 06591,
December 2017 on ‘The Public Sector Equality Duty and Equality Impact Assessments’ (p23).
Additionally, her academic publications have been cited 17 times in the Equality and Human
Rights Commission Research report (2018) ‘Reviewing the Aims and Effectiveness of the Public
Sector Equality Duty (PSED) in Great Britain’. The Wales Centre for Public Policy report ‘Putting
equality at the heart of decision-making Gender Equality Review (GER) Phase One:
International Policy and Practice’ (July 2018) cited Conley’s paper ‘Gender equality in public
services: Chasing the dream’ (London, UK: Routledge, 2014) seven times as part of their
recommendations to the Welsh Government’s Rapid Review of Gender Equality (announced
March 2018).

Durbin is a Board Member for the Bristol Women in Business Task Group, Bristol Women’s
Commission, Bristol City Council, a Board Member for Fair Play South West, a Founding
Member, Transpire Director Network, an Expert Reviewer, ESRC funding bids, an External
Advisor, Exeter University Business School, Athena Swan Bronze Application (2017-2018) and
has held a visiting professorship role at the University of Sydney, Australia.

Gaggiotti holds visiting professorships at the Universidad de Baja California. Tijuana, México,
the Universidad Autónoma de Ciudad Juárez, Ciudad Juárez, México, the Bremen University of
Applied Sciences, Germany, Universidad de Ciudad Juarez, México and Meiji University, Tokyo,
Japan.



                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.5 Applied Marketing Group (AMG)
A cross-centre collaboration between Hughes (AMG) and Bradley (BCEF) (Case Study –
‘Sustainable Futures’) established new frameworks for co-creative sustainable development in
organisations. A KTP project enabled a technology company, Viper Innovations, to develop new
markets with new commercial partners, increasing sales turnover by £1,275,000 p.a. and
implementing structural and cultural changes to enable long-term global growth. They are
currently working on other KTP project bids that bring together expertise from different research
groups, for example with Sysmax Ltd and Harris Evolution.

Hughes and colleagues also worked with Viper Innovations on a KTP, funded by Innovate UK,
which was awarded an ‘Outstanding’ rating. The project took a co-creative approach to user-led
innovation by working with new partners in establishing how the company’s new
'CableGuardian™' technology can create value in different sectors and markets. The KTP has
been strategically critical to Viper’s future ability to enter new markets with millions of pounds'
worth of potential.

Vafeas and Hughes were invited to deliver keynote speeches, based on their research into
value co-creation in business-to-business relationships, at events hosted by organizations such
as Business West, Design Business Association, Data and Marketing Association, Professional
Marketers’ Forum, Chartered Institute of Marketing, and Bristol Media. Vafeas has also been
interviewed about the research findings by the Agency Management Institute in the USA and has
been asked to be a regular contributor to their blog.

In 2014, Hughes and Vafeas designed and delivered two-day marketing planning workshops to
150 SMEs in the South-West, supported by a £46K grant from European Regional Development
Funding. Vafeas was invited to join the Regional Council (West and Wales) of the Data and
Marketing Association (DMA). The DMA has a membership of over 1,000 UK companies and its
mission is to set standards for marketing in the UK, help companies to grow, and nurture the
next generation of marketers.

4.5 Innovation, Operations Management and Supply (IOMS) Group
Research led by Phillips, as Director of the Redistributed Manufacturing in Healthcare Network
(RiHN), has contributed significantly to the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory
Agency (MHRA) work on developing innovative point-of-care manufacturing regulation. The UK
Government’s Life Sciences Sector Deal 2 drew on work undertaken by the RiHN research
team, and additional findings from the network have been used as evidence to the International
Trade Select Committee discussions relating to Covid 19 and pharmaceutical supply chains.

Phillips has also been involved in the Science and Technology Impact Assessment Panel of the
European Parliament foresight study on ‘Additive bio-manufacturing: 3D printing for medical
recovery and human enhancement’ (Brussels, October 2017) and the World Economic Forum
Global Future Council on Technology, Values and Policy (Bristol, May 2018). Furthermore,
RiHN’s research has been recognised by MIT, Boston, USA who have used their findings in their
Executive MBA programme.

Kumar has been involved in several international projects funded by Royal Academy of
Engineering, Newton Fund, British Council and British Academy working closely with local
councils and governments in the partnering regions on sustainable food supply chains. He has
been a regular keynote speaker at several international conferences and events advocating
sustainable practices in the food sector. He sits on the advisory panel of the Bristol Good Food
Alliance working to improve the food system for the City of Bristol. His contribution to the field
has been recognized by the Industrial Engineering and Operations Management (IEOM) society
through the award of an IEOM Fellowship in March 2020. He sits on review panels for the UK
Research Councils as well as The Research Council of the Sultanate of Oman and European
Science Foundation.




                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.7 Further Contributions
In addition to specific collaborations, BBS research is communicated to stakeholders through a
range of activities including an annual research showcase, Research Centre and group open
days, presentations to stakeholder groups and headline presentations at UWE events such as
the Distinguished Address Series, typically attended by over 250 members of stakeholder
groups. Our commitment to the promotion of research excellence was also evidenced by hosting
the British Academy of Management (BAM) Conference on behalf of the University in 2018. The
conference was attended by international business and management scholars from around the
world.

Staff across the School have held numerous editorial positions for journals; 11 editorial roles
(nine as guest editors), 10 associate editor roles and 17 editorial board roles. Our academics
have made keynote speeches and invited talks at over 40 international conferences and events,
including Guermat at the Ecole Supérieure de Commerce, Algeria, Gabor at CERES Phd
Conference (ISS, the Hague, March 2020), Tunis Conference on Monetary Sovereignty in Africa
(Tunis, November 2019), Financialisation in the Global South (Buenos Aires, Argentina,
November 2019), UNCTAD Debt Management Conference (November 2019, Geneva),
Gaggiotti at AFIN Research Group, Autonomous University of Barcelona (October 2019)
Universidad de Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, (2016), Universidad de Ciudad Juarez, Mexico (June,
2016); BIMTECH University. Bhubaneswar, India (May 2015); University of Barcelona
(November 2015); American Anthropological Association. Washington, USA (December 2014);
Turku School of Economics, Finland (April 2014), Conley at Université Saint-Louis-Bruxelles
(February 2020); Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales, Paris (April 2016); at Rhine-
Waal University of Applied Sciences, Kleve, Germany (January 2015). Kumar at National
Institute of Food, Technology Entrepreneurship and Management (India, 2020); National
Economic University (Vietnam 2020); AlmaU School of Economics and Finance (Kazakhstan,
2020); University of Petroleum and Energy Studies (India, 2020); Gelisim University (Turkey,
2019); Sam Ratulangi University (Indonesia, 2019); Khon Kaen University (Thailand, 2018);
Hanoi University (Vietnam, 2016). Keynotes have also been given at conferences hosted by the
Universities of Oxford, Cambridge, Manchester, Antwerp, Perugia, Brunel, De Montfort, Bristol
and Bath among others.




                                                                                        Page 19
