Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Aberystwyth University

 Unit of Assessment: 14: Geography and Environmental Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Our Ambitions and Principles
 Researchers at Aberystwyth have been undertaking research at the forefront of Geography and
 Environmental Studies for over a hundred years and continue this tradition to advance
 knowledge and techniques, enhance public understanding, and deliver societal and
 environmental impacts, nationally and internationally. The centenary of the Department in 2018
 presented an opportunity to celebrate our historical contribution to the discipline - including over
 100 PhD alumni currently working in universities and research institutes in at least 15 countries -
 and to highlight the ongoing significance, relevance and impact of our research, as well as to re-
 affirm our commitment to supporting frontier research and training the next generation of
 research leaders.

 The Department of Geography and Earth Sciences (DGES), submitted wholly to UoA 14,
 provides a vibrant and supportive research environment, with practices, policies and structures
 embedded in a research strategy aligned with the Aberystwyth University (AU) Research and
 Innovation Strategy (see REF5a), that aims to develop research capacity and extend impact,
 emphasising increasing research income, promoting interdisciplinarity, and building academic
 and non-academic collaborations. The strategy has 15 priorities, detailed below (pp. 3-4), which
 have contributed to:

       Empowering the vitality of our research environment through policies to encourage
        solutions-oriented research, increase grant capture, develop interdisciplinary centres and
        projects, and support engagement of our staff in the subject community.

       Enhancing the sustainability of our research environment by building on capacity-building
        and investment reported in REF 2014, with new large research projects, expanding our
        graduate school, upgrading facilities and equipment, and consolidating links with
        government bodies, industry and civil society.

       Promoting inclusivity in our research with actions to remove barriers to equal
        participation, promote open research, expand public engagement and co-production,
        develop research and outreach activities that contribute to social, economic and
        environmental wellbeing in Wales, and ensure social and environmental responsibility in
        our research practice.

 In the REF 2021 period these policies, practices and structures have enabled DGES to achieve
 a number of objectives including substantially increasing research income, leading major
 research projects, extending interdisciplinary collaborations, expanding graduate research
 numbers, consolidating our international profile, and realising impacts on policy, professional
 practice and public discourse.

 Delivering the Strategy: Structure and Organisation
 DGES’s research environment is underpinned by six research groups reflecting breadth across a
 spectrum of sub-fields in Human and Physical Geography and Environmental Studies (Figure 1).
 The structure and membership of the research groups is regularly reviewed, with a new Earth
 Surface Processes Research Group established during the assessment period, integrating the
 previous River Basin Dynamics and Hydrology Research Group with an expanding area of
 research on dryland environments. The research groups also house specialist research
 laboratories and link to interdisciplinary research centres and inter-institutional networks.




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                    Figure 1: DGES Research Structure (see text for acronyms)

 The research groups provide a locus for collaboration, mentoring, peer review, development of
 new research proposals and testing of results and findings, as well as internal and external
 seminars and postgraduate supervision. Many academic staff are affiliated to more than one
 research group and cross-working between groups is encouraged, including through a common
 Departmental guest seminar and public lecture series. Research group leaders sit on the DGES
 Research Committee, which is responsible for the management and delivery of the Research
 and Impact Strategy, chaired by the Director of Research. A Director of Impact and Engagement
 is responsible for developing, facilitating and monitoring public engagement, policy transfer and
 the impact of DGES research. Research activity in DGES is integrated with the AU Research
 and Innovation Strategy through the Faculty of Earth and Life Sciences Research Committee,
 chaired by the Associate Dean (Research, Knowledge Exchange and Innovation), on which the
 Department has two representatives (see REF5a).

 A key strategic priority throughout this REF period has been the expansion of interdisciplinary
 engagement. DGES researchers have been proactive in establishing Interdisciplinary Research
 Centres (IRCs) within AU, leading or co-leading the Aberystwyth Behavioural Insights (ABi)
 centre, the Aberystwyth Centre for Space and Earth Modelling (ACSEM), and the Centre for
 Welsh Politics and Society (CWPS); and contributing to the Centre for Excellence in Rural
 Health Research (CERHR), the Centre for International Development Research at Aberystwyth
 (CIDRA), the Centre for the Movement of People (CMOP) and the Interdisciplinary Centre for
 Environmental Microbiology (ICEM). These IRCs complement DGES’s research groups by
 stimulating interdisciplinary collaboration, supporting bids for research funding and facilities, and
 providing additional resource and opportunities for internal and guest seminars, peer review,
 postgraduate training, and outreach activities. Externally, interdisciplinary work has been
 advanced through competitively awarded, HEFCW-supported initiatives including the Climate
 Change Consortium for Wales (C3W) (to 2015), the Sêr Cymru National Research Network for
 Low Carbon Economy, Environment and Energy (NRN-LCEEE), Sêr Cymru Living Wales Chair,
 and continuation of the Wales Institute for Social and Economic Research, Data and Methods
 (WISERD) with ESRC Research Centre funding.

 Achievements during the REF 2021 assessment period
 Our REF 2014 Research Environment and Impact Statements outlined specific objectives for the
 assessment period. Delivery of these objectives has been supported by targets and
 mechanisms, including: policies for staff development, capacity-building and research leave (see
 Sections 2 and 3); investment in infrastructure detailed (Section 3); and initiatives for outreach,

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 public engagement, policy transfer and impact (Section 4). Performance against the strategy has
 been monitored through reporting in the AU research information system, PURE, and annual
 individual research plans and review meetings for all staff, with feedback through the Research
 Committee.

 These Research Strategy priorities have been realised by:

       Developing interdisciplinary collaboration with biologists, environmental scientists,
        physicists and computer scientists through the ICEM and ACSEM, the new Extreme
        Experimental Environments Laboratory, the Sêr Cymru Living Wales project, and other
        externally-funded projects.

       Strengthening interdisciplinary collaboration with economists, historians, political
        scientists and psychologists through the establishment of CWPS and ABi, collaboration
        in the DGES-led IMAJINE project, and the award of a second consecutive ESRC
        Research Centre grant for WISERD/Civil Society.

       Translating the legacy of capacity-building activities in C3W into research grants
        including ACCLIMATIZE, Black and Bloom, BRITICE-CHRONO, CHERISH, and the
        Hominin Sites and Paleolakes Drilling Project.

       Increasing research grant capture per year by 46% on the 2008-2014 REF period,
        including prestigious awards of a European Research Council (ERC) Advanced Grant
        and ESRC Research Centre funding, and coordination of large Horizon 2020 projects.

       Consolidating our international research profile and networks by introducing a
        visiting researcher programme, with 46 international visitors during the REF 2021 period,
        as well as through the successful recruitment of eight Marie Skłodowska-Curie and
        Newton international fellows, and leading international collaborative research projects.

       Expanding the graduate school, with a 15% annualised increase in PhD completions
        on REF 2014, retention of ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership status, and diversification
        of postgraduate funding.

       Supporting the leadership and service of DGES researchers in the subject community
        by recognising contributions as journal editors, panel members, and association officers,
        in a new workload model.

       Promoting open access publishing through the AU Research Portal, publisher
        agreements and funding for publication fees through individual discretionary funds and
        UKRI open access APC funds, engagement in shaping open access policies as journal
        editors, and supporting open research by developing open-source software for
        luminescence dating analysis and for spatial analysis in GIS and remote sensing
        (disseminated through open access libraries including RSGISLib, SPDLib, KEALib and
        ARCSI).

       Strengthening impact on public policy in Wales and internationally, by consolidating
        links with the Welsh Government and public agencies, including serving on advisory
        groups, presenting at seminars and undertaking commissioned policy-related research;
        engagement with policymakers in Wales through Rural-Urban Outlooks: Unlocking
        Synergies (ROBUST), WISERD, and the Wales Centre for Public Policy (formerly the
        Public Policy Institute for Wales); and consolidating links with international organisations
        including the European Commission and World Health Organisation in fields such as
        bathing water quality (see Impact Case Study).



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Consolidating connections with civil society, local communities and with the
        environmental sector in Wales and internationally, through activities including the Living
        Wales project, participation in the Environment Platform Wales, working with the
        UNESCO Dyfi Biosphere on the Citizen Observatory Web project, and leading the Global
        Mangrove Watch programme (see Impact Case Study).

       Expanding impact on commercial and organisational practice through developing
        CPD, workshop and short-course provision and collaborative studentships in areas
        including GIS, remote sensing, luminescence dating, glacial hazards, Welsh language
        policy, behaviour change and mindfulness (see Impact Case Study).

       Promoting DGES research through public engagement, creative practice and media
        engagement on issues including climate change, extreme weather, environmental
        hazards, globalisation, migration and Brexit, with examples including exhibitions, theatre
        performances, film, art-science events, collaboration with the Whitechapel Gallery, and
        work leading the production of promotional material, for example, on ‘Why
        Geomorphology is Important’.

 Three further priorities have also been adopted in response to evolving staff interests, shifting
 societal and policy contexts, and new funding opportunities. These are:

       The strategic development of solutions-oriented research addressing key
        environmental and societal challenges and enhancing the applied impact of DGES
        research. New research has explored biogeochemical solutions in environmental
        engineering, including geological carbon capture and storage; applications of
        mindfulness and behaviour change techniques to enhance policy-making, promote
        sustainability and tackle social problems; hydrological approaches to eradicating malaria
        in Africa; and smart rural development. This work is aligned with UKRI’s Global
        Challenges Research Fund and Sustainable Development Goals, and complements
        existing research on bathing water quality, flood alleviation and the application of Earth
        observation to monitoring biodiversity.

       The consolidation of research and outreach activities contributing to the social,
        economic and environmental wellbeing of Wales, reflecting the Welsh Government’s
        emphasis on the civic mission of universities and the principles of the Wellbeing of Future
        Generations Act in Wales. The delivery of this objective has involved strategic targeting
        of European Regional Development Funds and collaboration with businesses and public
        agencies.

       The practice of social and environmental responsibility in DGES research. AU has
        introduced research ethics assessments for all research proposals prior to submission,
        and DGES has engaged in benefit sharing in international research, including working
        with local partners and communities and contributing to capacity-building, within the
        framework of AU research integrity procedures (see REF5a).

 The delivery of DGES’s Research Strategy has consolidated an environment in which excellent
 research has flourished. Academic and research staff and postgraduates in DGES have
 published three monographs, 17 edited books, over 600 papers in peer-reviewed journals and
 over 100 chapters during this REF period, with 69% of our articles in the top 10% of journals by
 CiteScore (SciVal analysis). The effective implementation of our approach to impact, and our
 targeting of solutions-oriented research, is demonstrated in our impact cases studies. ‘Improving
 quality standards for recreation waters’ highlights our impact on public policy through close
 working with international organisations; ‘Global Mangrove Watch’ illustrates outcomes from
 nurturing connections with the global environmental sector and a commitment to open research;
 and ‘Transforming Behavioural Public Policy Delivery’ documents impact achieved through



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research-based training programmes and responding to the Wellbeing of Future Generations
 agenda in Wales.

 Priorities for the next assessment period
 Our strategic aims for the next REF assessment period are to balance blue-sky and critical
 research that advances our established areas of expertise with solutions-oriented research,
 applications and public engagement to achieve social, economic and environmental impacts at
 local, national and international scales. Confirmed grant awards will support research over the
 next 2-3 years on topics including coastal heritage (CHERISH extension; CUPHAT), ice sheet
 rift propagation (RIPFISH [NERC]), Quaternary timeline of human evolution (EQuaTe [ERC]),
 and volunteer responses to the COVID-19 pandemic (ESRC), as well as work in the ESRC
 WISERD Civil Society Centre on political polarisation, elites and patronage, and new repertoires
 of environmental social action and participation through two ESRC-funded UK-Ireland networks
 on civil society and on rural policy.

 A new DGES Research Strategy has been developed for the next REF assessment period,
 foregrounding the following strategic priorities:

       Promoting solutions-oriented research that addresses major societal and environmental
        challenges and facilitates commercial, technological and social innovation, supported by
        the capture of targeted research funding, collaboration with non-academic partners and
        user communities, and the appropriate adoption of co-production and citizen science
        methods.

       Making ongoing contributions to conceptual and methodological development in
        Geography and Environmental Studies, valuing and supporting pure and inquisitive
        research through leave policies, inclusion of non-grant research time in workload
        allocations, and conference support, as well as through competitive external grant
        funding.

       Enhancing the reach and critical mass of the Department’s research capacity through
        strategic collaborations with academic and non-academic partners in Wales, the UK and
        internationally, including leading pan-Wales initiatives in our specialist areas in response
        to the 2020 ‘Strength in Diversity’ report on research collaboration in Wales.

       Further strengthening interdisciplinary collaboration with cognate subject areas in AU to
        produce novel and agenda-setting research, including in the AU strategic research
        priority areas of ‘Rural Futures’ and ‘The Lives We Want’.

       Consolidating and diversifying research grant capture to enhance long-term sustainability
        of our research activity, including engaging with opportunities in the UK Shared
        Prosperity Fund and Horizon Europe.

       Continuing to contribute to AU’s civic mission in delivering research that enriches the
        social, economic, cultural and environmental life of Wales, deepening our relationships
        with stakeholders including the Welsh Government through avenues including
        Environment Platform Wales, engaging with the regional agenda of the Growing Mid
        Wales Deal and opportunities for commercial partnerships through AberInnovation, and
        building on the resources and networks created by the Sêr Cymru Living Wales project.

       Extending the reach of our research impact by building networks with policymakers in
        Wales, the UK and internationally, strengthening collaboration with transnational
        companies, and connecting with wider audiences by using online public engagement,
        event and dissemination tools.




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Maintaining the excellence of our research infrastructure and facilities with over £450k
        already committed to future state of the art instrumentation (including e.g., digital and
        fibre-optic borehole sensors; spatially-resolved micro-XRF spectrometer), upgrading
        existing equipment to maintain the highest capabilities (including e.g., XRF core scanner,
        and EDX addition for Transmitted Electron Microscope), and developing custom-built
        novel instrumentation with industrial partners (e.g. with Kärcher Ltd UK on the
        development of robust, high pressure pumps for field use).

       Continuing to train and develop the next generation of researchers in Geography and
        Environmental Studies through a vibrant graduate school, hosting post-doctoral and
        visiting research fellows, and strengthening the capacity of early-career researchers
        (including by supporting applications for UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships and other
        research funding and encouraging participation in subject networks).

       Further strengthening the inclusive research environment in DGES, including identifying
        and dismantling barriers to equal and effective participation in research activities for all
        and by adopting specific policies and actions to support staff whose research capacity
        has been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic.

       Contributing to the development of inclusive practice and discourse within Geography
        and our specialist areas by facilitating and participating in discussions and workshops to
        promote inclusivity, following good practice in our involvement in subject associations
        and conferences, and adopting benefit-sharing principles in our collaboration with
        international and community partners.


 2. People

 In the REF 2021 assessment period we have:

       Strengthened the vitality of our research environment by attracting emerging world-class
        researchers on international fellowships, expanding our graduate school and increasing
        our cohort of post-doctoral researchers.

       Enhanced the sustainability of our research environment by developing the capacity of
        our early- and mid-career researchers, as reflected by promotions and academic awards.

       Promoted inclusivity through equality and diversity policies, modification of practices to
        facilitate inclusive participation, targeted support and mentoring and the fostering of a
        bilingual research culture.

 Staffing Strategy
 DGES aims to foster an inclusive research culture in which all eligible academic staff are active
 in research and able to fulfil their potential as researchers. We recognise that excellent research
 is produced by researchers at all career stages, from all backgrounds, and in all sub-fields of the
 discipline, and support and promote excellent work without prejudice.

 In the reporting period, the DGES staffing strategy has focused on supporting the professional
 development of existing academic staff in the Department, including those initially appointed as
 post-doctoral or early-career researchers, with progression marked by individuals becoming first-
 time principal investigators for research grants and research team leaders, growing external
 profiles and invitations to positions of esteem, and recognition of achievements through
 academic promotions. Since 2014, 14 members of academic staff have received internal
 promotions, including five to personal chairs (Brewer, Merriman, Roberts, Thomas, Tooth), four
 to readerships (Bunting, Davies, Mitchell, Perkins), and five to senior lectureships (Gagen,
 Griffiths, Heley, Hoskins, Irvine-Fynn).

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The research community has been strengthened by two early-career academic appointments
 (Busfield and O’Connor), the transfer of Holt to a permanent contract, and strategic recruitment
 through the competitive Welsh Government Sêr Cymru and Marie Skłodowska-Curie COFUND
 programmes to bring world-class researchers to Wales. Appointments have included the Sêr
 Cymru Chair in Earth Observation (Lucas), with associated research team, and fixed-term
 COFUND post-doctoral fellows in dryland soil-atmosphere exchanges (Lan), biomineralisation
 (Dhami; Sand), glaciology (Racoviteanu) and luminescence dating (Ou). Additionally, DGES has
 hosted international research fellows supported by competitively obtained Marie Skłodowska-
 Curie (Kreutzer; Zebre) and Newton (Srivastara) fellowships, enhancing research capacity in
 luminescence dating, glaciology and environmental bioremediation respectively.

 Staff Development
 Professional development of all academic staff in DGES is supported by annual research
 planning and review meetings within AU’s Effective Contribution Scheme, which include
 identification of training and capacity building needs (see REF5a). Staff have been supported in
 undertaking training and professional development courses internally and externally, including
 on research grant writing, project management, research ethics and data management, media
 engagement, leadership skills, and pan-departmental techniques such as image analysis and
 the use of drones in research. Academic staff participate in university and departmental level
 seminars, workshops and ‘cafés’ enabling the sharing of good practice in research and public
 engagement, as well as informal discussions of research ideas, proposals and draft publications
 (in human geography the ‘Social Research Lab’), reading groups and writing retreats. Targeted
 research mentoring has been provided to staff not returned in REF 2014 to facilitate eligible
 returns in REF 2021.

 The introduction of a Workload Allocation and Management Model (WAMM) has provided a
 mechanism for assigning research time and recognising research and research-related
 activities. All academic staff are allocated 550 hours annually for research, with additional time
 allocations for commitments to externally funded research projects, PhD supervision and
 intensive activities such as journal editing. A research leave policy entitles academic staff on
 research and teaching contracts to apply for sabbatical research leave of six months every four
 years, subject to the approval of a research plan by the DGES Research Committee. During the
 2014-2020 REF period, 29 periods of research leave have been awarded in DGES under this
 policy, totalling 14.5 years of dedicated research time. Academic staff in DGES receive a
 standing annual research fund allocation to support conference participation and other minor
 costs, with further funding available from DGES’s Discretionary Research Fund and through the
 distribution of a proportion of indirect cost from external grants to individual research accounts.

 Additional support for early-career researchers includes mentoring, fast-tracked research leave
 after 3 years, an annual sandpit event to develop projects, and access to seed-corn funding for
 small-scale and pilot research from ring-fenced pump-priming funds. Early-career researchers
 are encouraged to apply for external research funding, with guidance and support – including a
 formal process of internal appraisal and mentoring of grant applications – from experienced
 colleagues, as well as to develop initiatives in the Department and to take on active roles and
 leadership positions in external organisations and networks. These policies also apply to early-
 career researchers on fixed-term contracts providing cover for permanent staff with buy-outs for
 fellowships or research projects, with the aim of assisting them to develop research profiles and
 secure permanent employment. In the period since 2014, two early-career researchers have
 moved from fixed-term and/or associate lecturer to full lecturer contracts within DGES, and five
 have been appointed to permanent positions at other universities or research institutions.

 Four early- or mid-career researchers in DGES have participated in the HEFCW Welsh Crucible
 (Griffiths, Heley, RD Jones and PDRA Goodwin-Hawkins), a competitive scheme to identify and
 develop future research leaders. This involves intensive residential workshops on themes
 including media engagement, networking with policy stakeholders, research impact and
 interdisciplinary working, as well as seed-corn funding for small-scale interdisciplinary projects

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with participants from other Welsh HEIs. The achievements of early-career researchers have
 been recognised in the assessment period by awards including the Eilir Hedd Morgan Memorial
 Prize for Welsh-medium science research (Busfield [2019] and Griffiths [2015]), the Worshipful
 Livery Company of Wales Gold Award (Griffiths) and the AU Award for Excellent Research
 Impact (Hardy).

 Experienced researchers in DGES are encouraged to apply for external research fellowships to
 facilitate innovative research and undertake significant writing projects to enhance their profiles –
 with awards obtained during the REF 2021 period including Leverhulme Research Fellowships
 (Irvine-Fynn; RA Jones), KCL Australia-UK Bicentennial Fellowship (Thomas) and the
 Independent Social Research Foundation Mid-Career Fellowship (Whitehead) – and to take on
 research leadership roles within AU and externally, with time commitments recognised in the
 WAMM. Experience of research leadership has been nurtured through the appointment of
 emerging mid-career researchers as leaders of research groups and centres (including Bunting,
 Merriman, Roberts, Thomas, Tooth, Whitehead); and Department members have been
 appointed to senior research-related leadership positions in AU, including: Pro Vice Chancellor
 and Dean of the Faculty of Earth and Life Sciences (Glasser); AU Director of Research
 Excellence and Impact (Roberts); Director of the Institute of Geography, History, Politics and
 Psychology (Glasser); Professor of Transformative Social Science (leading research capacity-
 building in the social sciences) (Woods); and Chair of the Research Ethics Panel (Roberts).

 The research excellence of DGES staff has been recognised in elections to fellowships of the
 Academy of Social Sciences (Woods) and the Learned Society of Wales (Woods, joining Kay
 and Emeritus Professors Dodgshon and Hambrey as Fellows), and awards including the Polar
 Medal (B Hubbard), the NSF Antarctic Service Medal (Mitchell) and the Water Industry Forum
 Prize for Research Impact (Kay). Glasser’s contribution to Antarctic science was recognised by
 the naming of the Glasser Glacier on James Ross Island by the Antarctic Place-names
 Committee in 2016, and Lamb’s career contribution to Quaternary research was marked by a
 special issue of Quaternary Science Reviews in his honour in 2018.

 Post-Doctoral Researchers
 The DGES research community has benefited during the REF 2021 period from 24 post-doctoral
 research staff employed on grant-funded research projects. Post-doctoral research staff are
 affiliated to research groups, assigned independent mentors, and have access to internal and
 external professional development courses. They are encouraged to participate in research
 seminars and other Departmental activities, and to publish and present at conferences on their
 own research. Since 2014, post-doctoral research staff have published 97 outputs during their
 appointments at DGES, including 43 sole- or lead-authored publications. The research
 environment in DGES has assisted post-doctoral researchers in establishing their research
 careers and securing further employment. Since 2014, post-doctoral research staff in DGES
 have been appointed to lectureships or associate lectureships at Aberystwyth, Cambridge,
 Edinburgh, Edinburgh Napier, Keele, Liverpool, Royal Holloway and Salford universities; and to
 research posts in DGES and at Gloucestershire, Kent, Liverpool, Manchester and Sheffield
 universities and the Geological Survey of Ljubljana.

 Research Students
 The expansion of the graduate school has been a key objective for DGES in REF 2021, with 61
 PhD completions compared with 38 completions in REF 2014, a 15% increase in the annualised
 rate. All awards have been for research-based doctorates.

 Research students in DGES each have two formal supervisors, with 34 staff supervising
 research students during the assessment period. All staff supervising research students are
 required to have completed appropriate training. Staff in DGES have additionally externally
 supervised 21 PhD students at other UK and international institutions.

 Fifty-two new PhD studentships were awarded in the assessment period. In Human Geography,
 DGES is an accredited pathway in the ESRC Wales Doctoral Training Partnership and is eligible

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for funding from the AHRC South West and Wales Doctoral Training Partnership. During the
 assessment period, four PhD studentships have been competitively awarded directly from the
 ESRC Wales DTP, with a further five ESRC-funded PhD studentships linked to the
 WISERD/Civil Society research centre (four match-funded by AU). Other PhD studentships
 awarded include 14 EU-funded Knowledge Economy Skills Studentships (KESS) involving
 collaboration with industrial partners, 16 awards from the Aberystwyth University
 ABERDOC/DCDS competitions, and 13 studentships funded from other sources, including
 AHRC, NERC, ERC (linked to GLOBAL-RURAL project), Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol,
 Commonwealth Scholarships and the UK Space Agency. DGES has hosted three long-term
 visiting PhD students from Brazil and China funded by the CAPES scheme and Chinese
 Scholarship Council respectively, as well as short-term visits by 18 PhD students from Australia,
 Belgium, China, Czechia, Finland, Germany, Japan, Netherlands, Switzerland and other UK
 universities.

 All research students in DGES complete subject-specific training within the Department and
 generic training delivered through the University’s Graduate School. They have access to further
 professional development activities within the Vitae Researcher Development Framework as
 well as to the monthly AU research cafés, as well as activities organised by IRCs and networks,
 including CWPS and WISERD. Human geography research students participate in an annual
 symposium run by the ESRC Wales DTP and linked residential ‘theory school’, which DGES
 staff contribute to organising, and DGES PhD students have participated in summer schools and
 training events run by the British Society for Geomorphology (BSG), EGU, European Society for
 Rural Sociology (ESRS), the Researchers in Development Network, and the RGS-IBG
 Postgraduate Forum.

 Research students are assigned to research groups and encouraged to participate fully in the
 Department’s research culture, including assisting with the organisation of guest research
 seminars, as well as in IRCs and networks. A DGES PhD student sits on the CWPS
 management committee and during the assessment period DGES PhD students have served as
 postgraduate representatives and committee members in the RGS-IBG Postgraduate Forum,
 Geographies of Health and Wellbeing Research Group, Rural Geography Research Group and
 Social and Cultural Geography Research Group, the BSG Postgraduate Forum, and as News
 Editor for the Geographical Directions blog. Research students are encouraged to participate in
 national and international conferences, with support available from a Postgraduate Discretionary
 Research Fund in addition to RTS allocations, and to publish in appropriate journals. Since
 2014, DGES research students have published more than 110 papers in academic journals,
 organised seven workshops and conference sessions, and have presented more than 100
 conference papers and posters.

 PhD students have additionally contributed to public engagement and impact activities, including
 giving the annual E.G. Bowen Lecture at the National Eisteddfod; participating in the ESRC
 Festival of Social Science, British Science Week and the Far Old Line Art-Science Festival;
 organising events on behaviour change, volunteering, museums and civil society and land-
 grabbing; curating exhibitions at the National Library of Wales; giving talks to local and specialist
 associations; writing three articles for The Conversation and several blog-posts; meeting with
 Welsh Government officials and Welsh Assembly Members; and being interviewed for BBC
 Radio and other media outlets. DGES PhD students have been recognised during the
 assessment period in external competitions, including Maderson (finalist, ESRC Making Sense
 writing award), Riedesel (Best Student Oral Presentation, UK Luminescence & ESR Meeting
 2018 and 2019), and Hepburn (Best Poster, BSG Conference 2019).

 As an indication of the quality of graduate research training in DGES, 32 PhD students
 completing since 2014 have secured academic appointments, including lecturing or teaching
 posts at AU, Swansea, National Taipei University (Taiwan), National Tsing-Hua University
 (Taiwan), Thammasat University (Thailand) and the University of Swaziland; and research
 positions at AU, Brown University (USA), Cal-Tech (USA), Cambridge, Cologne, Leicester,
 Masaryk University (Czechia), National Taiwan University, Newcastle, Sheffield, Sheffield

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Hallam, Swansea, UWE and the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology. Two ESRC-
 funded PhD students (Maderson and Saville) have competitively secured Post-Doctoral
 Fellowships from the ESRC Wales DTP, both held in DGES.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 DGES is committed to building an inclusive research environment with respect to equality and
 diversity in recruitment, promotion and staff development; opportunities and support for
 research; research mentoring and monitoring and REF selection; postgraduate recruitment and
 supervision; and impact and engagement activities. We are working towards a diverse research
 community in DGES that is representative of the society in which we work, including the target of
 achieving a gender balanced team. During the assessment period, women have comprised 60%
 of new REF-eligible academic appointments, 67% of post-doctoral and research fellow
 appointments in the department, and 50% of new PhD students.

 The commitment of DGES and AU has been recognised by a Disability Confident Employer
 accreditation and inclusion in Stonewall’s Top 100 UK Employers for a LGBT+ friendly
 workplace. All staff are required to complete Equality and Diversity Training and several
 networks promote equality issues and provide support for researchers, including the Women in
 Research Network, BAME Network, LGBT Network, and Disability and Wellbeing Network.
 Within DGES, equality and diversity issues are promoted by a designated Equality Champion.
 As well as AU policies on flexible working, the Department has enhanced the inclusivity of its
 research environment through actions such as moving research seminars from late afternoon to
 lunchtime to avoid conflicts with childcare, and introducing fast-tracked research leave and
 additional research fund allocations for staff returning from periods of parental leave.

 Principles of equality and inclusion have been incorporated into the REF 2021 selection process,
 as outlined in AU’s Code of Practice, with all members of the REF Reading Committee and
 supplementary reviewers required to have completed Unconscious Bias training. The
 Departmental REF Reading Committee has also included an independent member from a
 cognate department to monitor fair practice. Applications for output reductions for Individual Staff
 Circumstances have been assessed through an anonymous process, with decisions made
 outside the Department.

 DGES researchers have also contributed to promoting equality and diversity within their subject
 communities, including organisation of a panel on disability and chronic illness in academic
 Geography at the 2019 RGS-IBG Conference (PhD student Kingsbury) and the online ‘Girls into
 Geoscience’ initiative (Busfield), and commentaries co-authored by Tooth on ‘Equality, Diversity,
 Inclusion: Ensuring a Resilient Future for Geomorphology’ (Earth Surface Processes and
 Landforms, 2020) and Woods on ‘The Language of Rural: Reflections Towards an Inclusive
 Rural Studies’ (Journal of Rural Studies, 2020). Roberts participated in the ‘Girl Talk’ project at
 the National Eisteddfod in 2017 showcasing the work of women scientists in Wales. Within AU,
 DGES researchers have contributed to initiatives to promote diversity, including co-organisation
 by O’Connor of a workshop on ‘Is Our University Too White?’ in 2019.

 DGES supports a bilingual research environment in which English and Welsh languages have
 equal status. All research conducted in Wales follows AU’s Welsh Language Policy with
 opportunities for research subjects to participate in Welsh and bilingual communication with
 research participants and the public. Staff and postgraduates are encouraged to present and
 publish research in Welsh where appropriate, and DGES academic Griffiths is Associate Editor
 of the Welsh language academic journal Gwerddon. Welsh-medium research is supported by
 the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol, to which five DGES staff are affiliated. Welsh language public
 engagement and impact activities include events at the National Eisteddfod and Urdd
 Eisteddfod, contributions to the Welsh language media, bilingual publication of research reports
 and newsletters, and simultaneous translation at public lectures and events.




                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 In the REF 2021 assessment period we have:

       Demonstrated the vitality of our research environment by securing over £18.3m in
        competitive external income and increasing our capture of large grants, supporting
        research in 65 countries, and methodological and theoretical innovation.

       Enhanced the sustainability of our research environment by investing in and
        maintaining world-class laboratory facilities and facilitating research development through
        workshops, networks and pilot funding.

       Strengthened inclusivity in research through training and mentoring to build the
        research capacity of all staff, enabling more staff members to obtain external research
        funding.

 Research Income
 DGES has received £19.6m in HESA-reported external research income (spend) during the
 assessment period, with average annual income up by 46% on the 2008-2014 REF period
 (Figure 2). We have secured £18.3m in new competitive research grant awards in the REF 2021
 period, including UKRI awards from NERC (14 awards, £1.9m total value), ESRC (four awards,
 £1.44m), AHRC (two awards, £245k), and STFC (one award, £190k); and awards from the ERC
 (three awards, £2.85m), other Horizon 2020 (six awards, £1.19m), EU Structural Funds (eight
 awards, £5.37m), UK and Welsh government (19 awards, £1.03m), the Leverhulme Trust (two
 awards, £105k), and the British Council (five awards, £312k). This represents an increase in
 research grant capture per annum of 32% on REF 2014. External research funding has been
 secured by 33 academic staff during the assessment period, with five researchers each securing
 over £1 million in new grant awards as PIs, covering work in glaciology, Quaternary research,
 remote sensing, water quality, and human geography.




        Figure 2: Annual total external research income in REF 2014 and REF 2021 periods

 Strategic targeting of large grants has resulted in a doubling, to £12.7m, of total income from
 research grants worth more than £250,000 to DGES compared with the previous REF period
 (increasing to 19 awards from 13 awards). Notable large grants awarded during REF 2021
 include:


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       ERC Advanced Grant GLOBAL-RURAL (£1.76m [€2.25m]) and ERC Consolidator
        Grants RESPONDER (£594k to DGES) and EQuaTe (£498k to DGES);

       Horizon 2020 RIA projects IMAJINE (DGES coordinating, €5m total, £395k to DGES),
        MICROARCTIC (£186k to DGES) and ROBUST (£276k to DGES);

       European Space Agency CCI-Biomass project (DGES coordinating, €1.5m total, £200k
        to DGES);

       ESRC WISERD Civil Society centre award (£632k to DGES for 2014-19) and renewal
        (£708k to DGES for 2019-24);

       NERC projects MOMENTS (£455k) and RIPFISH (£270k [awarded, but start date
        delayed to 2021 by COVID-19]);

       Welsh Government Sêr Cymru Living Wales project (£864k) and NRN-LCEE award Geo-
        Carb-Cymru (£284k);

       Geoscience Australia project Landcover and Evidence-based Change Mapping (£507k)

       Projects funded through EU Structural Funds, including ACCLIMATIZE (£2.13m to
        DGES), GEOM (£924k to DGES), CHERISH (£739k to DGES) and Ports Past and
        Present (£579k to DGES).

 These awards have complemented continuing large grants awarded prior to the assessment
 period, including the ESRC Transformative Social Science grant Negotiating Neuroliberalism
 (£167k), NERC Hominin Sites and Paleolake Drilling Project (HSPDP) (£440k) and AHRC
 ‘Extreme Weather’ project (£260k). DGES staff have also participated in more than 50 grants
 held at other institutions, receiving indirect support through travel, fieldwork logistics, laboratory
 time and equipment totalling more than £500k.

 Research grant capture has been supported by initiatives to facilitate research planning and
 development, including: annual planning and review meetings with staff members; internal peer
 review of research proposals and sharing of expertise; building capacity of early-career
 researchers through collaboration in larger projects and research centres; and participation of
 DGES staff in research development activities organised by the AU Department of Research,
 Business and Innovation – including ‘Grants Factory’ workshops, research cafés and sandpit
 events – and external bodies, including pitch-to-peers sessions for social science organised by
 WISERD. Seed-corn funding for pilot studies has been provided to DGES researchers by the
 University Research Fund, the GCRF-supported Centre for International Development Research
 at Aberystwyth (CIDRA) and WISERD. DGES researchers also benefited from the university-
 wide ESRC-funded Transformative Social Science initiative (2014-2017), linked to Whitehead’s
 ESRC Negotiating Neuroliberalism award and coordinated by Woods, which provided seed-corn
 funding for pilot research and facilitated research development through sandpits, workshops,
 mentoring and training. These activities led directly to the H2020 IMAJINE project and the
 development of the ABi centre.

 External research income has supported research in 65 countries (Figure 3), employed 47 post-
 doctoral and graduate research staff, facilitated data analysis including the use of specialist
 facilities, and released staff time for research work, leading to high quality publications and other
 outputs.




                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




  Figure 3: Countries and territories where DGES researchers have undertaken research in the
                                   REF 2021 assessment period.

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 Research in DGES is underpinned by world-class laboratory facilities and resources. Core
 research technicians (1.9 FTE) support laboratory intensive research, and design, build and
 maintain instrumentation. Key facilities and resources include:

       The Aberystwyth Luminescence Research Laboratory (ALRL), with instrumentation for
        Luminescence dating with unique UK capability (ALRL held NERC Recognised Facility
        status while that category operated until 2016);

       An Itrax XRF Core Scanner for high resolution elemental analysis of sediment cores with
        new high specification XRF detector and software installed February 2020;

       The Experimental Extreme Environments Laboratory (EX2EL), a state-of-the-art facility
        established in 2014 between DGES and the Institute of Biological, Environmental and
        Rural Sciences (IBERS) for studying mineral-fluid-gas-microbe interactions at extremes
        of temperature, pressure and aridity;

       Geochemistry laboratories including a laser ablation ICP-MS instrument for mass
        spectrometry;

       Palaeoecology laboratories, with pollen and diatom preparation and microscopy facilities
        and an extensive pollen reference collection;

       The Earth Observation Laboratory, equipped for the analysis of remotely-sensed
        imagery, LiDAR and SAR data, including a spectroradiometer;

       A 3DIce Research Facility, including a deep hot-water ice drill and suite of geophysical
        borehole probes with winches with up to 3km capacity;

       An extensive collection of field equipment for glaciological, palaeoenvironmental and
        hydrological research, including drilling and coring equipment, dinghies and pontoons;
        GPR and DGPS; fixed-wing UAVs and quadcopters, and a 10m Parker Cabin Rib
        equipped for coastal surveying;

       Social science research resources, including qualitative field equipment and access to
        coding and online survey tools.

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 In addition to £18.3m of research grant capture, more than £2m of capital funding has been
 invested in upgrading and enhancing research facilities, laboratory and field equipment since
 2014. These include an Elementar isoprime stable isotope analyser (£180k); luminescence
 readers and unique imaging capability in ALRL (£550k); UAVs and ground penetrating radar for
 polar geophysical and cryosphere remote sensing research (£338k); fixed wing and rotary UAVs
 and UAV LiDAR capability (£185k), and upgrading of the XRF core scanner, complemented by a
 new portable XRF analyser (£60k).

 Capital investment includes shared facilities with IBERS of £350k to establish EX2EL and £405k
 for two new electron microscopes with chemical analysis capabilities (SEM-EDX and TEM-EDX),
 led by DGES. An ongoing programme of estates investment has included refurbished office
 accommodation for research staff, a research computing suite, and a new flexible research
 seminar space for up to 65 people.

 Research in DGES benefits from wider local resources, including the University library and
 extensive electronic information resources, and the adjacent National Library of Wales, a UK
 copyright library. The Earth Observation and Ecosystem Dynamics Group is a major user of the
 national Supercomputing Wales infrastructure, which provides access to data storage, research
 software engineers and supporting rapid processing of remote sensing data.

 To support commitments to Open Access and good practice in research data management,
 each research project is allocated networked server space (including ~500TB storage for Earth
 Observation data), with back-up on a shadow server, and open access to research outputs is
 facilitated through the AU Research Portal and Data Catalogue. Data Management Plans are
 required for all research projects.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 In the REF 2021 assessment period we have:

       Supported the vitality of our research environment by hosting international visitors and
        academic meetings and conferences, participating in the subject community, and
        engaging with local, national and international stakeholders to translate our research into
        contributions to social and economic wellbeing, environmental sustainability, policy and
        public culture.

       Consolidated the sustainability of our research environment by developing new
        collaborations with academic and non-academic partners, nationally and internationally
        that have strengthened our research capacity and extended the reach of our research
        impact.

       Strengthened inclusivity in research, within and beyond DGES, by recognising staff
        contributions to the subject community and to wider economy and society in a workload
        allocation model, and by practicing co-production of research with stakeholders and
        communities and benefit-sharing with international collaborators.

 Collaborations
 DGES is committed to collaborative and interdisciplinary research, locally, nationally and
 internationally. Within AU, we collaborate with researchers from almost every other department,
 across the sciences, social sciences, arts and humanities, through research projects, co-
 authored publications and joint PhD supervision. These collaborations have been formalised and
 strengthened during the assessment period through the formation of Interdisciplinary Research
 Centres, including the Aberystwyth Behavioural Insights centre (led by RA Jones and
 Whitehead; with International Politics and Psychology); the Aberystwyth Centre for Space and
 Earth Modelling (co-led by Bunting; with Computer Science and Physics); the Centre for
 Excellence in Rural Health Research (with IBERS, Computer Science and Psychology); the

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Centre for the Movement of People (with Modern Languages and International Politics); the
 Interdisciplinary Centre for Environmental Microbiology (with IBERS); and the Centre for Welsh
 Politics and Society (co-directed by Woods; with Business, International Politics, History &
 Welsh History and English). These IRCs receive core funding from the University Research
 Committee and benefit DGES by facilitating the development of interdisciplinary research
 projects and grant bids, enabling shared use of facilities and resources, and coordinating public
 engagement and research impact activities.

 Within Wales, collaborations with researchers at Bangor, Cardiff, South Wales and Swansea
 universities extend our research capacity by providing critical mass for large grant bids,
 complementing our research expertise in interdisciplinary projects, and amplifying the efficacy of
 engagement and impact with stakeholders. Key collaborations include the Sêr Cymru NRN-
 LCEEE, which has supported fellowships and studentships in DGES; the Climate Change
 Consortium for Wales (C3W) and the Centre for Catchment and Coastal Research during the
 early part of the assessment period; and WISERD. As well as hosting an ESRC Research
 Centre, WISERD encompasses a wider range of projects, networks, training and capacity
 building courses and public engagement and knowledge transfer activities, and was commended
 in the Diamond Report on Student Finance and Higher Education Funding in Wales for its
 contribution to social research. DGES is the second most significant participating department in
 WISERD by people and research spend.

 International collaborations
 A strategic priority for DGES during REF 2021 has been the development of its international
 profile and networks, with supporting mechanisms and policies including research leave, a
 visiting scholar policy, an annual staff research allocation for travel and conferences, a strategic
 review of Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) and partnership agreements, and support for
 applications to international research fellowship schemes (including COFUND, Mare Curie-
 Skłodowska and Newton). Funding for networking and scoping visits for international
 collaboration has been obtained from the GCRF, Newton Fund, Rutherford Fund, Welsh
 Government SCoRE programme, and WISERD.

 These actions have enabled DGES researchers to lead and join major transnational research
 collaborations, including: coordinating the interdisciplinary Horizon 2020 IMAJINE project on
 territorial inequalities and spatial justice (with 15 partners in 13 countries) and the ESA CCI-
 Biomass project (with 11 partners); in Horizon 2020 projects CHANGE, CREDit and ROBUST,
 MCSA Initial Training Network MICROARCTIC, and the NERC-supported international HSPDP
 consortium; collaboration with Irish partners through the INTERREG programme in the
 ACCLIMATIZE, CHERISH, ECHOES and Ports Past and Present projects; and contributions to
 collaborative projects supported by international funding bodies, including the Belgian Science
 Foundation, DFG, Norwegian Funding Council, NSF, SSHRC and Swedish Research Council
 (Figure 4). International networking within specific areas of expertise has been facilitated by
 partnerships and MoUs, including the Trans-Atlantic Rural Research Network (TARRN) of
 leading rural social science centres in the UK and USA, and with the Universidad Nacional de la
 Patagonia. SciVal analysis shows that 62.3% of our journal articles in the REF 2021 period
 included international co-authors.




                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




       Figure 4: DGES international collaborations and networking in the REF 2021 period.

 Collaboration with researchers in the global south, guided by benefit-sharing principles, has
 been a specific aim and has involved working with local partners, including in Ethiopia on the
 NERC HSPDP project; Zambia on the NERC FLOODMAL project; Indonesia and Vietnam on
 the NERC MOMENTS project; Nepal on the NERC EverDrill project, and Brazil, China and
 Malawi on the ERC GLOBAL-RURAL project (including a MoU with the Chinese Academy of
 Sciences). New initiatives have been developed with researchers in Argentina, Botswana, Brazil
 and Jordan through GCRF and British Council networking funds, and in Namibia in a Rutherford
 Fund SPG. Benefit-sharing activities have included co-authorship of papers, support for partners
 to participate in international conferences, graduate student workshops and mentoring, and
 facilitating the formation of a new network of rural development researchers in Brazil, as well as
 training in field geomorphology and GIS for local researchers and stakeholders in Bhutan and
 Nepal.

 International exchanges and links have been further enhanced by eight in-coming fellowship
 awards through COFUND, Marie Curie-Skłodowska Individual Fellowship scheme, and the
 Newton Fund, and hosting 50 international visitors from 20 countries since 2014 through
 DGES’s visiting scholar policy (including visitors funded by the Chinese Scholarship Council and
 a Rutherford Strategic Partnership Grant). In the same period, DGES researchers have held 23
 visiting positions at institutions in 13 countries, including: the William Evans Fellowship at the
 University of Otago (B Hubbard), Moore Institute Visiting Fellowship at NUI Galway (held
 separately by Griffiths, RD Jones and Woods), as a Guest Professor at the Chinese Academy of
 Sciences (Woods), Honorary Professor at Witwatersrand University in South Africa (Tooth),
 Adjunct Professor at Trinity College Dublin (Lamb), and Adjunct Associate Professor at Montana
 State University (Mitchell).

 Collaboration with social, policy and commercial partners
 As part of DGES’s impact strategy, collaborations have been developed with non-academic
 partners in the UK and internationally. In the assessment period, DGES researchers have
 worked with policy and civil society partners on several EU-funded projects including
 ACCLIMATIZE (Natural Resources Wales, EPA, Environmental Health Wales and local
 authorities), CHERISH (Royal Commission on Ancient and Historical Monuments in Wales,
 Geological Survey Ireland), Ports Past and Present (Wexford County Council) and ROBUST


                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Welsh Local Government Association), as well as through the Environment Platform Wales (led
 by Natural Resources Wales, with Davies serving on the Board).

 Commercial partners have been engaged through collaborative projects, notably QinetiQ in
 knowledge transfer projects on drone use and helping businesses to use remotely sensed data;
 and commercial, government and civil society partners were involved in more than 25
 collaborative PhD and Masters projects, including Environment Systems, Ecodyfi, Cwmni
 Telesgop, Tata Steel and Robertson Geologging. Public engagement and communication have
 also been enhanced by collaborations with cultural partners including the Whitechapel Gallery
 on ‘The Rural Assembly: Contemporary Art and the Rural’ event and with the WOW Film
 Festival, and the strengthening of relationships through honorary appointments, including
 Honorary Professors Richard Bevins (formerly Keeper of Natural Sciences, National Museum of
 Wales) and John Reynolds (Reynolds International Ltd).

 Contributions to the Discipline and Research Base
 Contribution to the wider research base in Geography through active participation in subject
 conferences, associations and periodicals is a key objective of the DGES Research Strategy.
 Service in editorial and society positions and in peer review and significant conference
 organisation is recognised in the WAMM, and staff are encouraged to participate in major
 conferences, with travel support available through the annual departmental research allocation
 of £500 per staff member, DGES Discretionary Research Grants, and the distribution of
 research grant overheads. Since 2014, the Department has hosted and provided support for
 conferences and scientific meetings including the Remote Sensing and Photogrammetry Society
 2014, Quadrennial UK-US-Canadian Rural Geography Conference 2015, TARRN 2017, British
 Society for Geomorphology 2018 and WISERD Annual Conference 2014 and 2019, and 26
 symposia and workshops linked to research projects and externally-funded seminar series.

 DGES staff have contributed to the scientific committees organising 14 further conferences
 (including ESRS 2015, ICHG 2015 and INQUA 2019), convened over 60 sessions at major
 conferences (including AAG:5, AGU:4, EGU:16, RGS-IBG:14), and presented over 275
 conference papers (including AAG:14, AGU:38, EGU:48, RGS-IBG:29), including 38 invited
 plenary or keynote addresses, as well as more than 75 invited lectures or seminars to
 universities and institutions in the UK, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Germany,
 Ireland, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Spain, Switzerland and United States.
 More than 80 guest speakers from UK and international universities have presented seminars
 and lectures in DGES since 2014, including 21 distinguished DGES alumni and former staff
 members as part of the Centenary Lecture Series in 2017-2018.

 Through editorial work, DGES staff have supported scholarly publishing and shaped disciplinary
 trajectories as editors of nine journals (Ancient TL (Duller), Environmental Values (Whitehead),
 Geo (Davies), Geomorphological Techniques (Holt), Journal of Geophysical Research: Earth
 Science (B Hubbard), Journal of Quaternary Science (Duller), Journal of Rural Studies (Woods),
 Quaternary Science Advances (Glasser) and Quaternary Science Reviews (Glasser)); as
 associate editors or review editors of a further 14 journals; and as members of editorial boards
 for 33 journals. DGES researchers are book series editors for Routledge (Whitehead) and Policy
 Press (Woods), and have guest edited eight journal special issues and two Geological Society
 Special Publications in the assessment period.

 Staff have also contributed to the discipline as officers or committee members of subject
 associations, including: Glasser (President, Quaternary Research Association), Roberts (Vice
 President, INQUA Stratigraphy and Geochronology Commission), Tooth (Chair, BSG), Davies
 (Secretary, International Society for Diatom Research) and RD Jones (Secretary of the Social
 and Cultural Geography Research Group), as well as over 20 other positions in RGS-IBG
 research groups, AGU, IGS, IGU, IUGG, RSPSoc and groups and committees and other
 organisations. Duller is the UK representative on a working group to establish an International
 Society for Luminescence and ESR Dating.


                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 DGES has actively supported networking and development for new and early-career
 researchers, hosting the 2016 HGRG Postgraduate Conference and 2016 ESRS Postgraduate
 Autumn School, and with staff contributing as guest speakers to the Warwick Political
 Geography Graduate Conference, SUSPLACE ITN Meeting, and Regional Studies Association
 Masterclass at the European Week of Cities and Regions, as well as a keynote address to the
 Geographical Association Conference. DGES researchers have promoted good research
 practice as invited speakers at an ERC Conference on Ethics in Social Science Research
 (Woods), a RGS-IBG panel on ‘Ethics in/of Geographical Research’ (Tooth), and a workshop on
 Researcher Wellbeing at Cambridge University (Gagen); and supported researcher professional
 development, notably through the internationally-recognised specialist luminescence dating
 course run by Duller and Roberts.

 Contributions to the research base have additionally been made as members of grant award
 panels or peer review colleges, including for the AHRC (Griffiths, Hoskins, RA Jones, Merriman),
 NERC (Glasser, B Hubbard), NERC Environmental Isotope Facility (Davies), ERC (Woods),
 European Science Foundation (Merriman), UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships (Merriman),
 Commonwealth Scholarships (Woods), and research councils in Austria (Merriman), Australia
 (Woods), Ireland (Griffiths), Sweden (Thomas, Woods), and USA (B Hubbard). Woods has also
 contributed to the wider research base as a member of the Welsh Government Review of
 Student Finance and Higher Education Funding (Diamond Review) and as Chair of the External
 Science Review for the Social, Economic and Geographical Sciences Group at the James
 Hutton Institute.

 Contributions to Economy and Society
 DGES produces research that is relevant to a range of non-academic users and contributes to
 social and economic wellbeing, environmental sustainability, public policy development and
 governance practice and the public understanding of science and social science. These aims
 are pursued through strategic initiatives and activities including: working in partnership with
 commercial, public and civil society organisations; translating pure research into applied
 contracts and consultancy; engagement with policy stakeholders; participation in government
 advisory roles and contributions to public inquiries and consultations; provision of advice and
 training for businesses; dissemination of research through new and traditional media; and public
 engagement through talks and events. A primary focus in Wales reflects the civic mission of AU,
 but activities extend across the UK and internationally, giving DGES research global impact.

 Mechanisms to facilitate engagement and impact include access to AU funds and short leave for
 impact-related activities; explicit recognition of impact- and engagement-related activities in
 WAMM; training and capacity building in media and policy engagement, including through the
 Welsh Crucible programme; inclusion of impact planning in annual research review meetings;
 training for postgraduate students on communicating science and policy engagement; and
 organisation of public engagement events.

 In the assessment period, these policies and mechanisms have enabled DGES research to
 contribute to the economy by developing e.g., commercial uses of drones to create market-ready
 products (in collaboration with QinetiQ), providing support for applications of GIS and remote
 sensing technologies by businesses (through the GEOM and Living Wales projects), and
 exploring the potential of low carbon subsurface energy in Wales in the NRN-LCEEE Geo-Carb-
 Cymru project. Further contributions to economic development have been made through work
 with the Welsh Local Government Association (WLGA) on a post-COVID-19 Rural Vision as part
 of the ROBUST project, a Mid Wales regional skills assessment for the Welsh Government,
 advice to the National Lottery Charities Fund Wales’s Rural Programme, and inputs into
 planning for Welsh Government post-Brexit Regional Investment Framework by RA Jones and
 Woods as members of the Monitoring and Evaluation Sub-Group.

 More broadly, relationships with the Welsh Government have facilitated contributions to policy
 development and governance, including invited presentations and briefings on topics including
 Brexit, rural development, environmental change and language policy, as well as delivery of

                                                                                          Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 workshops and training sessions with the Welsh Government and the WLGA on mindfulness in
 policy-making and delivery. DGES researchers have contributed to work by the Public Policy
 Institute for Wales / Wales Centre for Public Policy on rural poverty; provided evidence and
 analysis on the impacts of Brexit on agriculture and rural healthcare (as part of AU’s Framework
 Agreement with the Welsh Senedd), and advised on humanities in the new Welsh curriculum.
 The ESRC WISERD Civil Society Centre has supported workshops for policy and civil society
 stakeholders on language policy, evaluation of youth work, integration of migrant workers,
 combating hatred and hostility in rural communities, and refugee support. Beyond Wales, DGES
 staff have given invited presentations to the UK Department of Transport, DEFRA and the
 Estonian Ministry of Rural Affairs, and to a USDA and National Academies expert workshop on
 rural-urban classifications in the USA.

 Impacts on environmental sustainability have been achieved through the provision of data and
 evidence from our research to underpin EU and WHO bathing water standards, and for global
 monitoring of biomass (CCI-Biomass project) and changes in mangrove extent (Global
 Mangrove Watch). Data from DGES research has informed land use classifications in Australia
 and Wales and been applied in environmental monitoring and management in Wales and
 elsewhere, facilitated in part through the release of open-source software and data for use by
 public agencies, conservation organisations and other stakeholders. Our researchers have run
 workshops on water quality for the EU, WHO and German Länder governments (Kay), and on
 glacial hazard mitigation for communities in Nepal (Racoviteanu). DGES staff have also
 supported environmental policy development and delivery as members of the UK Government
 SAGE Volcanic Emergencies Sub-Committee (Grattan), Welsh Government Advisory Panel on
 Sustainable Development and Change Programme (Whitehead), Natural Resources Wales
 Evidence Advisory Committee (Whitehead), and UNESCO UK Man and Biosphere Programme
 Committee (Woods).

 DGES’s impact strategy emphasises public discourse and public understanding of science,
 which has been supported by public talks and the promotion of research findings through the
 Department’s social media accounts, as well as encouragement for researchers to build
 innovative engagement activities into projects, with ideas shared through AU’s engagement café
 series. During the assessment period, more than 20 public talks and events have been
 organised by DGES directly or through research centres and projects, including lectures and
 panels at the National Eisteddfod and Urdd Eisteddfod, events as part of the ESRC Festival of
 Social Science, and CWPS public lectures, including the 2020 Annual Lecture by First Minister
 of Wales Mark Drakeford. Additionally, over 80 talks have been given by DGES staff to TEDx,
 science cafés, festivals and local clubs and societies in England and Wales, as well as more
 than 160 talks to schools. Tooth’s work on the ‘Why Geomorphology is Important’ brochures
 series has been significant in promoting the public profile of geomorphology in the UK and
 internationally.

 DGES has encouraged innovation and creativity to disseminate research to diverse public
 audiences, including work with theatre groups on performances including ‘The Storm Officer’
 exploring weather memories (AHRC TEMPEST project) and ‘The Forecast Project’ on climate
 change and community (funded by the Transformative Social Science programme); film,
 including the documentary ‘En Route’ on asylum seekers in rural Sardinia, which has been
 screened at a number of film festivals in the UK, Italy and Argentina; poetry, reflecting on water
 and weather; and collaborations with artists, including Antony Lyons, Julian Ruddock (‘Strata: art
 and science collaborations in the Anthropocene’ event), Caitlin Shepherd (part of GLOBAL-
 RURAL project) and Marie-Pierre Leroux and Perry Walker (‘Voicing the Air’ project). DGES
 researchers have organised or contributed to the ‘Living Wales’ permanent exhibition at the
 Centre for Alternative Technology and touring exhibition; ‘2A Earth Core: The Hominin Project’
 exhibition; ‘Assembling Newtown’ exhibition; ‘Vanishing Glaciers’ exhibit in the 2015 Royal
 Society Summer Science Exhibition; and an exhibition on the historical geographies of Cefn
 Coed hospital in Swansea.



                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 New and traditional media have also been used, with contributions by DGES researchers to The
 Conversation and other websites, blogs and podcasts, including the RGS-IBS Ask a Geographer
 series and sharing of results, data and resources through project websites, such as the Living
 Wales project geoportal, multimedia ‘Storymaps’ on the GLOBAL-RURAL project website, and
 the Wetlands in Drylands website. During the REF 2021 assessment period, DGES researchers
 have made contributions to television and radio programmes, including Doomsday Volcanoes
 (Channel 5) and Timebomb Iceland (Discovery Science) drawing directly on Grattan’s research,
 Extreme Wales (BBC, Sky News, Radio 3, Radio 4, and over 80 contributions to Welsh national
 broadcast media (BBC Wales, S4C, Radio Cymru, Radio Wales). DGES researchers have
 published articles in newspapers and magazines (including The Guardian, Science, and Welsh
 current affairs magazines Barn, Golwg and Planet) and DGES research has featured in the
 broadcast and print media of at least 14 countries (including CNN, NBC, National Geographic,
 Newsweek and USA Today in the USA), as well as in UK outlets including BBC News, ITV
 News, The Guardian, The Times, The Independent, The Daily Telegraph, The Daily Mail, New
 Scientist, The Economist and the Economist 1843 Magazine, and on numerous news and
 science websites.




                                                                                        Page 20
