Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Glasgow

 Unit of Assessment: 32

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Structure, vision and context:
 Structure: We are one of the largest Art & Design Units outside London, with 27 staff of whom
 24.8 are FTE Category A (compared with 19 in 2014, and 18.5 Cat. A). Most staff are based in
 History of Art (School of Culture and Creative Arts, College of Arts), but the UoA also includes
 three colleagues in Museum studies based in other subject areas. Together with our specialisms
 in Asian and Pacific as well as Western art, and in Contemporary Art and Curatorial Practice; Art
 and the Law; Art, Theology and Faith; and Conservation, Conservation Science and Technical
 Art History, this makes our range amongst the widest outside London. Our Centre for Textile
 Conservation and Technical Art History (CTCTAH), is unique in British Higher Education, and
 one of only three European centres for postgraduate technical art history.
     These features make our vision strongly outward-looking, object-based and impact-
 orientated. By linking local collections and materials across disciplines, cultures, and global
 contexts, and partnering reciprocally with the heritage/cultural sector, we seek to create
 educational, social, cultural and economic benefit; we believe that the local cannot be
 understood without the international, and the past without the future, just as new insights arise
 through crossing disciplinary boundaries.
    Our context is exceptional: the EU has designated Glasgow ‘the top cultural and creative
 centre in the UK’, and ‘a creative and cultural centre of European importance’. The University’s
 Hunterian Museum and Art Gallery and Glasgow’s civic collections (part of ‘Glasgow Life’) are
 both recognised by the Scottish Government as ‘Collections of National Significance’, and the
                                           University’s Archives and Special Collections are one of
                                           Scotland’s foremost historical and heritage resources.
                                           We also benefit from the Kelvin Hall, a sector-leading
                                           collections-access facility opened in 2016.

                                             Together with our School’s other Subjects (Theatre,
                                          Film and TV Studies, and Music), and museums and
                                          archives research in Information Studies, we thus lead
                                          the cultural strand of the University’s strategy to ‘grow its
                                          external engagement’ and ‘serve global communities’,
 Figure 1. X-Ray Fluorescence             and have spearheaded the University’s Strategic
 identification of pigments on The        Smithsonian Partnership (SIP) – a flagship
 Hunterian Scottish colourist painting,   interdisciplinary framework for collections-based
 Royan, 1910 by J. D. Fergusson, in       research, signed in 2018.
 the Study Centre at Kelvin Hall
 1.2 2014 plans and objectives; approach to supporting interdisciplinary work and sustainable
 impact
 Our 2014 objectives were to increase our ‘interdisciplinary research and collaboration’,
 ‘international reach’, and ‘scale and scope of our public engagements’ through ‘specific projects
 stewarded within our research clusters’ (REF 5, 2014). Our ‘main impact goal’ was ‘to maximise
 our influence on cultural life, economic prosperity, public services and policy making via
 knowledge-sharing and research collaboration with external bodies, especially museums and
 galleries’ (REF3a, 2014).


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     In REF 2014, our gallery and heritage sector collaborations produced a strong impact score,
 plus exhibitions and other large outputs. When The Hunterian undertook a major internal
 reorganization in 2016, enabling closer cooperation with academic Units, we therefore made a
 successful business case for two 0.2 FTE Research Curatorships in major areas of the
 Hunterian collections: Contemporary Art (Paterson), and Whistler (de Montfort). Together with
 Economou’s 0.5 FTE Hunterian role, for Digital Cultural Heritage, these mean the Unit now has
 one of the highest concentrations of academic curatorships in the Russell Group. This has been
 complemented by continuing external gallery demand for our expertise, together with the
 appointment of Cook as Professor of Museum Studies in 2018. Willsdon’s Impact Case Study
 exemplifies cultural, educational and professional benefits from invited contributions to major
 international exhibitions, facilitated by Research Leave and KE awards, whilst Pearce’s develops
 from his Smithsonian Institution Fellowships.
     In pursuing our 2014 goals of interdisciplinarity, international reach, greater reciprocal
 engagement, and sustainable impact, we also decided to prioritise large funded CTCTAH
 projects, since the strongly applied nature of textile conservation and technical art history
 involves close collaboration with the heritage/museum sector, as well as other disciplines.
     This strategic focus on collaborative work with museums and galleries has enabled us to
 support very vigorously the University’s aim for ‘public and community engagement with
 research’; highlights include:

 1.2.1 Exhibition work: Twelve staff have undertaken exhibition
 consultancies, advisory roles, and/or exhibition catalogue
 outputs, or curatorial research practice. This has increased
 the total of exhibitions with Unit input to 25 (compared with
 under 10 in 2014), with an estimated total of over one million
 visitors, across 14 different galleries in Britain, Europe, Japan
 and the USA. As well generating impact, it has been
 particularly beneficial for interdisciplinarity, reach, and
 inclusivity: Paterson’s 8 contemporary art exhibitions since
 2014, for example, involve collaboration with Yale Center for
 British Art (Strange Foreign Bodies, 2018); the first Hunterian
 display of black artists’ work (Manthia Diawara, 2018; Jimmy
 Robert, 2021—including a new commission); and over
 £300,000 income that has inter alia supported acquisitions by
 Black, LGBTQ, and women artists.
      De Montfort’s two Hunterian Whistler exhibitions
 (Whistler and Nature, 2018-19, and Whistler: Art and              Figure 2. Douglas Coupland's
 Legacy, deferred to 2021 by Covid) generated a joint AHRC Slogans for the 21st Century
                                                                   (2011-Present) at 24/7 curated by
 PhD with French, PG internships, a Postdoctoral Curatorial        Prof. Sarah Cook for Somerset
 Assistantship, 2019-20, and a Cambridge Science Festival          House, London. Photo: Stephen
 interdisciplinary study day with Willsdon (2019). Together        Chung/Somerset House
 with MacDonald’s online, open-access, Leverhulme/Lunder
 Whistler Paintings resource and The Woman in White: Joanna Hiffernan and James McNeill
 Whistler exhibition (National Gallery of Art, Washington and Royal Academy of Art, London,
 postponed by Covid to 2022), this has consolidated the Unit’s role as the leading international
 centre for Whistler research and public engagement. Sustainability is assured by a Lunder
 Foundation for Whistler Studies award. Cook’s contemporary art exhibition work includes an
 annual digital art festival (NEoN)) and an exhibition at Somerset House (over 45,000 visitors).



                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     In turn, we have built a chain of future research-led exhibitions and collaborations (see below
 and Sect. 4) from which we anticipate further benefit to interdisciplinarity, reach, engagement,
 inclusivity, and impact.

1.2.2 Large funded CTCTAH projects with gallery/heritage partners
Since 2014, these have attracted nearly £1.5 million total, including major interdisciplinary
ESPRC awards; a scale of work that has enabled significant impact on heritage care and
interpretation. Lennard’s AHRC Situating Pacific Barkcloth in Time and Place, for example,
                                                    brought together ethnography, economic
                                                    botany and chemical analysis for new
                                                    understanding of Pacific barkcloth through
                                                    partnership with The Hunterian,
                                                    Smithsonian, Kew Gardens, and others. (see
                                                    Impact Case Study). Her Leverhulme
                                                    Tapestry Conservation project collaborated
                                                    with engineers to influence tapestry display
                                                    internationally; Young’s ESPRC-funded
                                                    PISTACHIO and IMPASTOW projects linked
                                                    Hunterian and National Trust cultural
                                                    heritage, generating a Getty Foundation-
                                                    funded conservation training project.(see
Figure 3. Participants at AHRC Barkcloth Project     Sect. 4).
symposium, 2017, in Bishop Museum, Honolulu,
Hawaii
    As our ‘collaboration, reach, interdisciplinarity and engagement’ strategy evolved, and our
scope extended, we replaced our four 2014 Clusters (Medieval and Renaissance Art;
Nineteenth-Century Art; Twentieth Century Art; and Textile Conservation and Technical Art
History) with three more flexible foci – Interpretation and care of objects; Medieval, Renaissance
and Baroque; and Modernity; at the same time, we introduced an annual cross-Cluster research
symposium for Unit cohesion, as follows:

 1.2.3 Clusters: these host speakers and events that help members network and keep up to date
 with their fields. Medieval, Renaissance and Baroque, for example, hosted the international 2018
 Renaissance Studies conference, sparking Nichols’s international Venetian Art Research Group,
 with PG contribution and a publication. Clusters also provide a launch-pad for collaborations:
 e.g. Quye’s historical dye workshops in Interpretation and care of objects used Royal Society of
 Edinburgh/Carnegie Trust/EU awards (Dyeversity, ReCREATE and LightFasTR) to link CTCTAH
 and museum partners for projects that led to a UNESCO World Heritage listing (see below). In
 Modernity, de Montfort’s and Willsdon’s collaboration with Tate for two British Art Research
 Network study days kickstarted the Unit’s Scottish Women and the Arts Research Network
 (SWARN) with Glasgow School of Art, local galleries/archives, and the Scottish National Gallery
 of Modern Art (outcomes include Joan Eardley centenary events, 2021).

 1.2.4 Annual Unit Research Symposium: this draws together papers from across the Unit, and
 by Hunterian and Glasgow Life colleagues, on a common theme (The Object, 2018; Collectors
 Collecting Collections, 2019; Attention and Art 2021 [delayed by Covid]). By sparking dialogue
 between specialisms, this promotes good research practice, awareness of methodological
 issues, and peer review of work in progress. Willsdon’s paper on ‘Caillebotte, Monet, and
 Whistler in the Garden’ (for Collectors), for example, informed her chapter on Monet at Giverny
 (for Monet exhibition, Oslo, postponed by Covid), whilst a paper by Roodt on restitution law (for

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Object), has fed her forthcoming book and Leverhulme application. We have extended this
 integrative approach by devising thematic events for Arts Lab (the College research institute and
 development unit), such as Torma’s 2020 interdisciplinary Landscapes of Dislocation seminar
 series.


 1.3 Future research objectives, and how these will be taken forward:
 Our enhanced breadth, collaboration, and interdisciplinary capacity since 2014 will combine in
 the next review period with the opening in 2021 of the University’s Advanced Research Hub, a
 £130m investment to support new research methods and collaboration across disciplines and
 externally (Cook leads its Creative Economies and Cultural Transformations theme). CTCTAH’s
 relocation to Kelvin Hall is also intended to facilitate its work on Hunterian and Glasgow Life
 objects. Subject to Covid’s impact, this and other future work is expected to include:
 - collaborative projects that benefit our reach, impact, and PGRs/PDRAs, e.g. via exhibitions;
 joint PG programmes with The Smithsonian to feed PGR recruitment; and Kyushu University,
 Japan (under MoU signed 2020);
 - interdisciplinary CTCTAH work with a view to a potential longer-term bid for a regional hub in
 Scotland under the UKRI World Class Labs funding scheme;
 - engagement with digital technologies, and digital and new media, including through
 contemporary curatorial practice;
 - equality, diversity and inclusion, complementing our initiative to decolonize our curriculum, e.g.
 through our Scottish Women and the Arts Research Network, anticipated contributions to
 forthcoming Hunterian exhibitions on Slavery, African Art, Women Makers etc;
 - pathways to 4* outputs and impact facilitated by the above.
 We will take these objectives forward by continuing to prioritise large-scale outputs via Research
 Leave/external funding, whilst supporting smaller-scale work with flexible timetabling and awards
 as available, and mounting Cluster, symposia, and Arts Lab events that sustain a dynamic
 research culture. Confirmed projects to date include ‘Equipping the Vision of Kelvin Hall’ (£415K
 from AHRC ‘Capability in Collections’, under UKRI World Class Labs project, to Young and The
 Hunterian); 9 monograph contracts; Hunterian/collaborative exhibitions; Rush’s Historic
 Environment Scotland ‘Unicorn’ public engagement consultancy; and Ross’s Scottish Arts
 Council Capturing Silenced and peripheralized Histories in South Africa (curatorial practice).
      Whilst Covid-19 has postponed several major exhibitions (including Whistler: Art and
 Legacy, to 2021; The Woman in White to 2022, see above), we have sought wherever possible
 to mitigate its effects. For example, Bonehill’s postponed Old Ways New Roads Hunterian
 exhibition was converted to online format, enabling additional outputs, as was Cook’s Sleep
 Mode exhibition, realised online with Somerset House. Lennard developed online workshops for
 her AHRC Barkcloth project, that have reached a global audience, and prompted new
 research/displays (see Impact Case Study). As Public Engagement convenor for the School of
 Humanities, Cook chaired the Being Human Festival’s panel on Covid-19 effects on the museum
 sector (2020).


 1.4 Open Research Environment
 Because of image fees, OA poses significant problems for the Unit, as noted in our contribution
 to the 2020 Plan S consultation via the Association of Art Historians. However, we are strongly
 committed to OA principles, and all Unit staff have ORCiD registration. Our percentage of OA
 outputs is rising (34.4% compared with 9.1% in 2014), and we make datasets publicly accessible
 where feasible (e.g. from Quye’s Dyeversity project). We have also worked to reach wide
 audiences digitally (e.g. Bonehill’s Picturing Places British Library website and Old Ways New

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Roads online exhibition; Rush’s Historic Environment Scotland forthcoming reports;
 MacDonald’s Whistler catalogues [over a million pages consulted, January - December 2020]),
 whilst our CTCTAH projects have dedicated websites (e.g. Tapa). The visitor engagement
 methodology and evaluation developed by Economou’s EU Emotive research has been made
 available free to museums internationally, whilst free talks and podcasts (e.g. Willsdon, National
 Gallery, London, 2019, with 300+audience; Lewer, St. Mary’s Cathedral podcasts, 2020; both
 supported by KE awards), and Cook’s 24/7 shortlisted podcast (see Sect. 4), are further forms of
 OA.


 1.5 Research Integrity
 Consistent with the University’s commitment to the UKRI Concordat to Support Research
 Integrity, we seek transparency of authorship according to CASRAI definitions, and record all
 outputs on the University’s ‘Enlighten’ Research Repository. Review of draft funding applications
 by Senior Unit members, the School Grants Champion, and College Arts Lab ensures ‘Lawful
 Basis’ for processing personal data, and we actively contribute to the development
 internationally of robust ethical frameworks for artwork sale and restitution, via Pearce’s
 Provenance network of leading museums (see Impact Case Study), and Roodt’s Cultural
 Property advisory roles (see Sect. 4).




 2. People
 2.1 Overview, recruitment, and staffing strategy:
 Twelve new/renewed/replacement institutional appointments have increased our Cat. A staff by
 42% (head count), with three new Teaching appointments providing support. External funding
 has secured seventeen externally-funded Postdoctoral researchers. This transformative
 investment concentrates in four key areas with particular potential for collaboration,
 interdisciplinarity, impact, and income generation, and/or with successful PGT programmes:

 2.1.1. Centre for Textile Conservation and Technical Art History (CTCTAH):
 A successful business case for a replacement Senior Lecturer (Young, subsequently promoted
 to Professor) combined with Lennard’s promotion to enhance CTCTAH’s leadership. Together
 with a Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship, this has facilitated twelve successful funding
 applications involving museums/heritage sector collaboration (£1,615,294 in total) and eleven
 postdoctoral positions, enabling a successful case in turn for a Teaching-only support.

 2.1.2. Gallery/Curatorial work: A Hunterian retiral in 2016 allowed two existing lectureships to be
 reconfigured as new, shared Hunterian posts (de Montfort’s and Paterson’s 0.2 Hunterian
 Research Curatorships). Embedding gallery collaboration in our work contractually, this new
 post type for the Unit has supported 18 exhibitions, three multi-component outputs, and at least
 one potential future Impact Case Study to date. The University in turn agreed to add value
 through a 0.2 professorship for MacDonald (Whistler) and a change of contract strengthening
 the research base in contemporary curatorial practice (Ross).
     We secured additional University Professorial investment in Museum Studies, drawing on
 the success of the PGT Museum Studies programme (Cook). Focusing on digital and new
 media, this has significantly extended Glasgow’s reputation as an international leader in digital
 humanities, and was complemented by Economou’s promotion to Professor in digitally-enabled
 collections and visitor engagement. Outcomes include Cook’s 24/7 and related exhibitions, and


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Economou’s EU Emotive project. Tonner’s Early Career replacement appointment in Education
 added specialism in Museums and Ethics.

 2.1.3. Dress and Textile History: a very successful PGT programme (based on Glasgow Life’s
 outstanding dress collections) underpinned a new 3-year Early Career appointment (Tuckett,
 converted to open-ended from 2016), and renewal of our 0.2 Professorial Dress History V&A
 secondment (Miller). Outcomes include three exhibition-related books, two exhibition
 consultancies, and a MOOC (see Sect. 4).

 2.1.4. Global and Spanish Art: Torma’s increase from 0.5 to 1 FTE expanded our East Asian art
 expertise, with outcomes including a book, whilst Ross’s expertise in South African women’s art
 supports equality, diversity and inclusion. Postdoc specialisms in Pacific, Asian and Indian art
 have arisen from AHRC Barkcloth and EU Dyeversity. Macartney’s 0.4 FTE appointment in
 Spanish art supports her Stirling Maxwell Research Project with Glasgow Life/The Prado for
 interdisciplinary exhibitions (Copied by the Sun, 2016; Unwrapping an Icon, forthcoming).


 2.2 Honorary Staff
 Honorary Fellowships have enabled retired/leaver staff to provide ongoing support for large
 projects, and/or specialist output scoring and PGR support. Current Fellows include Prof. Alison
 Yarrington, Chair, British National Committee, Comité International d'Histoire de l'Art (for
 Mapping Sculpture and National Inventory Research Projects 2008-14); Profs. Michelle Delaney
 and Jane Milosch (Smithsonian); Dr. Ann Compton, former curator, Sculpture, V&A (Mapping
 Sculpture); Dr. Grischka Petri, University of Bonn and Prof. Joyce Townsend, Senior
 Conservation Scientist, Tate (Whistler Paintings).


 2.3 Future staffing plans
 Building on the above focus on areas enabling strong collaboration, impact and
 interdisciplinarity, and reflecting University and wider initiatives to decolonize the curriculum, and
 exploit digital technologies, our future priorities are CTCTAH; collections-facing research; art and
 heritage in the digital age; global art; and equality, inclusion and diversity (EDI). Our 2019-20
 Smithsonian Lectureship has launched work towards potential SIP projects in these areas, whilst
 our Lunder Technical Art History Fellowship, 2021-2, will support interdisciplinary work for
 Whistler outputs.


 2.4 Staff Development
 Our approach combines individual guidance with targeted training. The annual Performance and
 Development Review (PDR) provides an important opportunity to help colleagues develop
 objectives with potential to assist successful promotion applications, whilst targeted promotion
 support is provided by the Head of School through individual discussion with applicants. Senior
 Unit staff are mentors on the Early Career Development Programme (ECDP; a unique
 opportunity to progress to Grade 9 in no more than eight years from appointment to Grade 7,
 and five from Grade 8), which has advanced Tuckett, Paterson and Torma since 2014. Tuckett’s
 participation in the Aurora Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) programme led to her
 appointment to the School’s EDI Committee, and both Lewer and Quye took the University’s
 ‘Emerging Leaders’ development programme, as Heads of Subject. Benefit is reflected in the
 Unit’s 73% promotion success rate (ten Cat. A promotions since 2014, including four


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 professorships, all for women [Young, Lennard, Strickland and Economou], and an overall
 success rate of 75% for women applicants and 67% for men applicants).

 Institutional Research Leave is a key mechanism for advancing significant outputs and/or
 impact. Staff are eligible to apply on the basis of one semester for every six worked full-time, and
 since 2014, 15 staff have thus shared 23 semesters’ leave. We have also benefited from a new
 College teaching buy-out scheme for finalizing large outputs (five successful bids, including
 Hopkins’s Dark Toys, Nichols’s Giorgione, Wieber’s forthcoming Jugendstil Women, etc.). For
 smaller projects, we use flexible timetabling. Overall, this has facilitated 24 potentially double-
 weighted monographs/multi-component outputs/edited books, and four Impact Case Studies
 from which we have selected three. Authors of potential Case Studies benefit from individual
 support from the College Research Impact Managers and Unit Impact Champion, whilst the REF
 Champion receives guidance on the draft REF submission from the College Research Dean and
 Assessment Panel.


 2.5 Research culture
 We have worked since 2014 to make the Unit an exciting and inspiring place in which to do
 research. Our biennial Glasgow-Bonn Art History Research Workshop, for example, sparked by
 our Erasmus agreement with Bonn University’s Institute for Art History, is believed to be unique
 of its kind in the UK. Led by Lewer and Bonn colleagues, it brings together Postdocs, PGRs, and
 staff from both institutions, for three days of papers and visits. To celebrate the University’s
 world-famous Whistler resources, meanwhile, we have introduced an annual ‘Lunder Whistler
 Lecture’ by a leading scholar (Dr. Lee Glazer, Freer Gallery; Dr. Erica Hirschler, Boston Museum
 of Fine Arts, etc.). These events complement our Cluster activities, Unit symposia, and
 fortnightly research seminars (speakers since 2014 include T. J. Clark, Anne Wagner, Mark
 Hallett, and Stephen Daniels). Our twice-yearly interdisciplinary School ‘Salons’, ‘College Arts
 Labs’ (including ‘Digital Departures’ and ‘Digital Cultural Heritage’, led by the Unit), plus the
 College’s Cultural and Creative Economies cross-disciplinary Research Beacon system (see
 Sect. 4) are all new since 2014 and further enrich our culture.


 2.6 Postdoctoral researchers
 Our large funded projects have integrated Postdocs more than ever before in our work. Our
 seventeen Postdocs since 2014 include three EU Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowships, four
 AHRC, two EPSRC, and one Leverhulme, generating some 89 outputs written jointly with Unit
 staff, or solely. They also contribute to our research culture events, and benefit from vocational
 training such as Hunterian internships and ‘MUSE’ scheme, and ‘Universeum’ (European
 Academic Heritage Network) workshops for PhD, ECR, and heritage professionals, under
 Economou’s H2020 POEM (Participatory Memory Practices) project. Public engagement
 opportunities have included Follow the Threads exhibition, The Lighthouse, Glasgow, 2020 (also
 involving PGRs). Benefits are reflected in our PDRs’ subsequent appointments, which include a
 Hunterian and a Smithsonian curatorship, two Information Studies Lectureships at the
 University, a post with Glasgow Museums, and a 3-year Getty Conservation Institute Fellowship.

 2.7 PGR training
 We provide numerous training opportunities, many using the collections-access facilities at
 Kelvin Hall. The Hunterian Research-Curators, for example, hold PGR events linked to their
 exhibitions (e.g. 'Thinking in the vicinity of Contemporary art' reading group), whilst the College
 of Arts Graduate School provides a dedicated programme that includes mandatory elements on

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Integrity, Information Security, and Equality & Diversity Awareness, as well as many
 options (from ‘Effective Writing’ to ‘Post-PhD Routes into Academic Research’ and topics on
 aspects of impact and engagement). Our 2019 Erasmus+ Trainee received bespoke
 supervision, and additional training is provided by the Scottish Graduate School for Arts and
 Humanities (SGSAH), as well as Scotland-wide networking and development opportunities
 (including Art History & Museum Studies Discipline+ Catalyst, annual Summer School, and
 events such as ‘Spring into Methods’ for innovative research methods, and POEM workshop
 above). We also encourage PGR-led events, such as Association for Art History PG symposia.
     Teaching opportunities are available through the University’s Graduate Teaching Assistant
 (GTA) scheme, which includes statutory training, and mentoring by a Unit year convener.
 Pastoral support, advising, and signposting to other wellbeing services are provided by the
 College Graduate School, which supports c. 500 PGR students per year and holds events in
 collaboration with the University’s Research & Innovation Service (e.g. ‘PGR@Home’).


 2.8 Research Student recruitment, funding, and supervision:
 We have worked to enhance recruitment by developing research-led PGT programmes, such as
 Collecting and Provenance Studies, that in turn feed PGR study. We have also used our
 museum/gallery partnerships (see Sect. 4) to develop successful Collaborative Doctoral Award
 applications with the Burrell, V&A and NEoN Digital Arts Festival, whilst our Hunterian Research
 Curatorships and Glasgow Life MoU enable us to attract research involving local collections (e.g.
 Whistler; Prints; both AHRC), and interdisciplinary approaches (e.g. Leverhulme Doctoral
 Scholarship on William Hunter drawings, co-supervised by Anatomy, English Literature, and The
 Hunterian). We feature our unique local resources, including Kelvin Hall and the new Advanced
 Research Centre (see Sect. 4) in Unit and School applicant events, whilst staff
 reputation/specialism is a further important ‘draw’, e.g. 12 PGRs from China/Taiwan (2014-20); 1
 one from India (2013-15), in global art specialisms.
      Success in this three-pronged approach, focused on research-led PGT work, resources, and
 expertise, is evidenced by growth of almost 50% in the Unit’s Doctoral degrees since 2014 (13
 awarded in 2018-19 compared with 7 in 2013-14), with a total of 51 degrees awarded since
 2014, of which 27% were to overseas students. This has been supported by successful funding
 applications: 11 AHRC doctoral/Collaborative Doctoral scholarships via the Scottish Graduate
 School for the Arts and Humanities [SGSAH], as well as 10 College of Arts whole or part
 bursaries, 3 Leverhulme awards, and contributions to PGR support from the Textile
 Conservation Foundation/Abegg Stiftung. College and School workshops help us develop well-
 tuned support statements that highlight local collections and resources as aids to impact,
 engagement and study.
      In PRES 2019, the School shared top score in the University for supervisor support, skill and
 knowledge, reflecting the Unit’s commitment to best practice. We benefit from mandatory
 SGSAH and College Graduate School supervisor training, and enrich our supervisory teams
 where relevant with experts from local collections (e.g. AHRC PhD on Sir William Burrell
 supervised by two Unit and one Burrell supervisor; the graduate has been appointed to the
 British Museum’s new Project Curator: History of Collection post). Supervisors work closely with
 their PGRs to develop strong contributions to the Unit’s annual PG symposium; these in turn
 inform annual PGR performance reviews, each chaired by an independent academic.


 2.9 Equality and Diversity
 Our School was awarded Athena Swan Bronze in 2019, part of our ongoing work to make the
 Unit a good place in which to pursue research, free from discrimination and unfair treatment. In

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2015, we expanded the History of Art Research and Unit REF committee to include junior as
 well as senior staff, and equal gender balance, with Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) a
 standing agenda item. Senior Unit members provide informal mentoring for women and junior
 staff, with Lennard also an Aurora mentor. With 6.4 FTE women professors (76% of the Unit’s
 total professorial FTE), we are now significantly above the sector average, though consistent
 with student gender balance in art history nationally; our significant increase overall in women
 staff (16.8 women [68%] and 8 men [32%], compares with 9 women and 7 men in 2014 [FTE]).
 However, we aim to achieve a more equal gender balance going forward, and all involved in
 recruitment are required to complete Recruitment & Selection, Equality & Diversity, and
 Unconscious Bias training, with the last two a requirement also for Research/REF Output
 Scoring Committee members. Our selection and recruitment panels are mixed-gender, and
 shortlisted applicants are invited to present to the School, enabling collegial feedback to the
 Appointing Panel.
     We recruit internationally, and promote EDI via Willsdon’s membership of the Association for
 Art History’s Higher Education EDI sub-committee, and Tuckett’s of the School EDI Committee.
 22% of staff are now from outwith the UK (2.86% declaring as BAME), and we hope that our
 action to decolonise our curriculum will attract more diverse staff and PGR/PDRAs, consistent
 with wider University’s action in this area (e.g. Diversity and Inclusion in the PGR Experience).
     We also contribute to School initiatives such as Decolonising the Academy (Symposium and
 Workshop, 2019), whilst from 2021 the School Collaborations and Cultural Activities committee,
 whose remit includes embedding EDI principles in School programming and benchmarking, will
 be chaired by Paterson. EDI informs our REF output selection and monitoring of workloads by
 the Head of Subject. Flexible timetabling/role allocation facilitates research by colleagues with
 disability, adverse personal circumstances or caring responsibilities, and we have introduced
 team-taught programmes for more agile response, plus family-friendly hours for research events,
 and flexible supervision timings. Collectively, these complement practical support available from
 the University’s Learning Enhancement and Academic Service (including policies for Health,
 Safety and Wellbeing, Lone Working, Carers, and Managing Stress in the Workplace, and the
 University’s Mental Health Action Plan, which gives access to independent counselling).


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Income
 The Unit’s 2014 strategy was to ‘maximise its opportunities through a diverse range of funding’.
 However, during the review period, as we saw leadership capacity grow through investment in
 CTCTAH (see Sect. 2), we decided to make it the prime engine for large grant capture, since its
 interdisciplinary methods attract diverse funding sources (including Research Council awards
 that enhance sustainability by covering overheads). We also recognised that the applied
 dimensions of CTCTAH work, that require specialist equipment and support staff, create
 valuable postdoctoral opportunities. This approach led to CTCTAH gaining three of the five
 largest awards, including Lennard’s AHRC ‘Situating Pacific barkcloth production in time and
 place’ (the largest, £755,020), as well as 12 of our postdoctoral positions. We also encouraged
 collaboration between other Unit staff and CTCTAH, and with local or wider collections; this
 resulted in our third-highest award, ‘New Approaches in Conservation of Contemporary Art’
 (£449,692), including two EU Horizon 2020 Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowships for applied
 conservation research. Most of our large awards have involved international partners.
     At the same time, we used the annual Performance Development Review process to help all
 staff set objectives that reflect promotion grant capture criteria, bearing in mind that some areas
 of our research generate significant outputs with relatively small sums, and that smaller
 applications may build towards larger projects and impact. Results from this include three Royal

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Society of Edinburgh Network grants, one of which kickstarted Economou’s EU-funded ‘Emotive’
 project benefiting museums and heritage organisations through digital storytelling for audience
 engagement. The University’s competitive pump-priming/proof of concept funding schemes have
 given further important impetus (e.g. a Chancellor’s Fund award led to MacDonald’s
 Leverhulme/Lunder Whistler Paintings Online; a KE award for Whistler, Nature and Science
 helped develop the case for our 2020-25 Lunder Whistler award, and another supported Cook’s
 work towards a Tate Fellowship.
     We are also aware that preparing large grant applications or developing partnerships and
 impact may themselves require dedicated time. We have therefore used flexible timetabling and
 successful applications for College Strategic Research Fund support to advance applications
 such as Lennard’s AHRC Barkcloth. To enhance application quality, we expanded our review
 process for draft applications to include specialist advice from Unit and School Research
 Committee members, the new School Grant Support Champion, and the broader strategic
 scrutiny of Arts Lab.
     This multi-faceted strategy has enlarged the diversity as well as scale of our income.
 Amongst non-UKRI awards, for example, our Lunder Consortium for Whistler Studies grant (US$
 210,000) is the largest to any Consortium member in 2019-24. It supports our Hunterian and
 other Whistler research, including our Lunder Technical Art Fellowship 2021-22. Other non UKRI
 examples include Ross’s Scottish Funding Council and Carnegie Trust for Scottish Universities
 awards (for South African Women’s art); Young’s AXA Art Foundation Post-doctoral Fellowship
 in conservation (2019-21); and Pearce’s Fieldstead Foundation Visiting Professorial Fellowship
 in Provenance and Curatorial Studies for Jane Milosch, Smithsonian Institution.
      Overall, we have increased our staff award total by 28.5% since 2014, to £4,208,826, with
 37.7% from BEIS Research Councils and Royal Society of Edinburgh; 27.4% from EU
 government bodies; and the remainder from UK Charities (21.3%), Industry, UK Government,
 and UK Other Sources (jointly 7.7%). 73% was awarded to women and 27% to men, consistent
 with our application gender profile. Further international sources include Kress, Santander, the
 Getty, and the Smithsonian Institution/Berg Foundation.


 3.2 Scholarly and physical infrastructure:
 The opening of Kelvin Hall in 2016, as part of the Cultural Quarter development south of the
 Unit’s home at University Gardens, provides state-of-the-art access to material from The
 Hunterian and Glasgow Life collections, and the Scottish National Film Archive (National Library
 of Scotland), and related curatorial expertise. A product of the University’s Memorandum of
 Understanding with Glasgow Life (the organization which oversees culture and leisure for the
 City), Kelvin Hall thus forms a major catalyst for interdisciplinary approaches and collaborations
 based on our strategy of close engagement with our exceptional local resources for global
 benefit. Transfer of objects to Kelvin Hall will be fully completed only in the next REF cycle,
 alongside full relocation of CTCTAH to the new studios and laboratories created at Kelvin Hall
 for technical analysis and conservation of cultural heritage; this will also benefit EDI, by ensuring
 full accessibility to disabled and other groups.
 Kelvin Hall facilities and expertise have already strongly supported the preparation of, for
 example, de Montfort’s Whistler and Nature travelling Hunterian exhibition (2018-19), and its
 enlarged, Covid-delayed sequel, Whistler: Art and Legacy (Hunterian, 2021). These are both
 drawn from The Hunterian’s unique James McNeill Whistler holdings that feature the largest




                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 public collection worldwide of the
 artist’s work, as well as the Whistler
 archive of over 10,000 letters and
 papers (housed in the University’s
 Archives and Special Collections, a
 short walk from Kelvin Hall). The two
 exhibitions contribute outputs and
 impact (see above, including catalogue;
 over 50,000 visitors for Whistler and
 Nature; Whistler Nature and Science
 study day, etc.), as well as involving
 PGR contributions. Similarly, Kelvin
 Hall has played an instrumental part in
 MacDonald’s online Whistler Paintings Figure 4. Postgraduate students using Hunterian
                                             collections in a Kelvin Hall Study Space
 resource, by enabling inclusion of the
 first-ever technical analysis of selected works from the Whistler collections (by our Hon
 Professorial research Fellow Joyce Townsend, assisted by a CTCTAH PGR). Whistler Paintings
 has been strongly welcomed by scholars and galleries worldwide; together with Whistler
 Etchings, MacDonald’s major REF 2014 output, it has already generated over a million hits in
 2019-20.
      Numerous further examples could be given of Kelvin Hall’s benefits, from its conservation
 laboratory that facilitated Lennard’s Barkcloth workshops, to its role in our Smithsonian
 Showcase week (2019) to kickstart Smithsonian Institution Partnership collaborations, and
 Young’s EPSRC PISTACHIO project (Photonic Imaging Strategies for Technical Art
 Conservation and History). The latter uses imaging/spectroscopy systems for insights into the
 works including Gavin Hamilton’s highly important Mary Queen of Scots painting in The
 Hunterian, that is enabling collaboration with the School of Critical Studies for a forthcoming
 Royal Society of Edinburgh/Hunterian Mary Queen of Scots exhibition. The integration of applied
 conservation research into Kelvin Hall also facilitates Young’s Getty Foundation ‘Conserving
 Canvas’ structural conservation training programme in collaboration with the National Galleries
 of Scotland, and supported by Yale University. This combines technical art history, conservation,
 and curatorial practice, using Glasgow Life’s low pressure vacuum hot table relocated to Kelvin
 Hall. The intended Kelvin Hall Phase 2 (new exhibition and research spaces) will further
 enhance our collaborative capability, though is likely to be delayed by Covid’s impact.
      Beyond Kelvin Hall, we have flexible reciprocal sharing of specialized portable equipment
 with Archaeology (pXRF, IRR, RTI, VR-headsets), further benefiting CTCTAH and art history
 projects; and outstanding University Library support (over 2.5m books and journals and over
 30,000 electronic journals across all disciplines). The Library’s Archives and Special Collections
 include not only Whistler’s papers, but historic photography collections, dye manuals, textile
 archives, and world-renowned medieval manuscripts; support research ranging from Strickland’s
 on medieval monsters to Quye’s on dye history. Paterson’s contemporary art exhibition
 programme, Cook’s Curatorial digital art Practice-Research, and Ross’s contemporary Curatorial
 Practice, similarly benefit from the outstanding opportunities for engagement and collaboration
 provided by the annual Glasgow International arts festival, the Glasgow School of Art, Glasgow
 Museum of Modern Art GOMA), and organisations including the Centre for Contemporary Art,
 Tramway, the Modern Institute, and the Common Guild. Our new Curatorial Practice MLitt is a
 pioneering collaborative degree with the School of Art, expected to feed PGR recruitment.
 Beyond Glasgow, Cook’s digital and new media 24/7 and related exhibitions build directly on her
 curation of NEoN Arts Festivals in Dundee (see Sect. 4).
      In using our exceptional resources, we are motivated by our concern to bring the local and

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the international into productive dialogue, as in MacDonald’s Whistler Paintings that relates
 Hunterian to global Whistler work. Other examples are therefore discussed in Sect. 4. Going
 forward, the model of wide-ranging, cross-disciplinary research created by Lennard’s AHRC
 ‘Barkcloth’ and Economou’s EU Horizon 2020 ‘Heritage’ projects that link Hunterian and wider
 collections has in turn helped to shape the University’s plans for its Advanced Research Centre
 (completion scheduled post 2021). This research space close to Kelvin Hall will co-locate project
 staff from across the University, further facilitating collaboration, public engagement, and
 knowledge exchange by the Unit.


 3.3 Organisational and operational infrastructure:
 The Unit is comprehensively supported by University, College and School leadership and
 administration. Research and Innovation Services (RIS), the College Research Office, and the
 University’s ‘Enlighten’ institutional repository, based in the Library, variously provide guidance
 on grant applications, output recording, PE/KE/impact planning and evaluation, and preparation
 of the REF submission, whilst Enlighten staff ensure compliance with publishers’ OA policies. At
 Unit level, we have introduced new measures to support and develop our research culture,
 monitor progress with our objectives, and help further embed EDI in our work. Our 2015
 expansion of the History of Art Research Committee, for example (see Sect. 2), enabled it to
 include Hunterian representation for the first time, facilitating collaboration, and providing a
 valuable forum for liaison e.g. for The Hunterian’s post 2021 exhibitions on Slavery and
 Women’s Art (see Sect. 4). Chaired by the Unit 32 REF Champion (Willsdon), the committee
 develops the 5-year Research Strategy and Research Leave Plan for History of Art, updated
 twice-annually for approval by the School Research Committee, and similar plans are developed
 by the Unit’s other constituent Subject Areas. These plans inform the School Research Leave
 Committee’s decisions, as well as the School Research Committee’s disbursement of a small
 research budget for travel, conference attendance, and minor teaching buy-out.
      The History of Art Research Committee also forms the core of the Unit’s REF Committee
 (again chaired by the REF Champion), which scores proposed REF outputs, with assistance
 from additional specialists as necessary; it also advises on the draft Environment submission.
 The proposed output selection is reviewed by the College Assessment Panel (where Lennard
 represents the Unit), and approved by the University. Interim periodic reviews of the Unit’s REF
 submission are overseen by the Vice-Principal, and informed by external advisers, whilst
 Individual Impact Case Study authors have bespoke assistance from the College REF Impact
 Officer and Lennard as Unit Impact Champion.
      Research involving the University’s Whistler collections is managed by the Whistler Studies
 Committee, chaired by de Montfort, and including Willsdon; this also administers the Lunder
 award. Similarly, major funded projects each have a steering committee; this includes expert
 external members.
      These support mechanisms are complemented by wider research training workshops/events
 held by the College’s Arts Lab (see Sect. 2), some in association with the School, whilst further
 guidance on research funding is provided by Arts Lab and the School Grant Support Champion.
 Research is also incentivised by the University’s cross-disciplinary institutional prizes, e.g.
 Public Engagement, awarded to Willsdon in 2016 for work towards her Impact Case Study, and
 Best Collaboration in the Arts, for which she was shortlisted in 2019. Interdisciplinary research
 benefits from intellectual support and networking/partner-finding opportunities provided by the
 College’s new ‘Research Beacon’ system. Our ‘Barkcloth’ and EU Horizon 2020 Heritage
 projects are flagship components of the ‘Understanding the past, shaping the digital future’
 strand of the Cultural and Creative Economies ‘Beacon’.


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Collaboration was integral to our 2014 aims for increased reach, interdisciplinarity, engagement,
 and impact, and has created educational, social, economic or cultural benefits for a wide range
 of users, but especially for galleries, museums, and heritage organisations and their publics. To
 support collaboration we use mechanisms ranging from formal institutional agreements and our
 strengthened Hunterian partnership to funded networks, consultancies, and advisory/curatorial
 roles arising from individual specialisms. Our collaborations are driven by the purpose of the
 intended research, and the funding opportunities available, but often result also from our
 distinctive object-based and interdisciplinary approach, that engages strongly with collections
 and their care and interpretation. The new Smithsonian Strategic Institutional Partnership, for
 example, is a direct outcome of the synergies between the Smithsonian and Hunterian
 collections through their shared origin in scientific enquiry, but it also builds on work over the last
 twenty years by Unit members on the Smithsonian’s Whistler and East Asian collections.
 Examples of collaborations since 2014, together with indicators of success and benefits, are
 given below by category, but are thus often linked by shared resources or methodologies.

 4.1 Civic and Community Engagement:
 Our Hunterian relationship, plus the University’s Memorandum of Agreement with Glasgow Life,
 have enabled a dynamic programme, with benefit also to inclusivity and diversity. Paterson’s
 Strange Foreign Bodies exhibition, for example, presented black artists for the first time at The
 Hunterian, and together with his Jimmy Robert for Glasgow International 2021, led to the Art
 Fund grant to The Hunterian for work exploring queer black self-representation, and a key role in
 The Hunterian’s forthcoming African Art and Slavery and Empire exhibitions. Overall, our 12
 Hunterian exhibitions since 2014 have engaged a very wide local audience, including the
 50,000+ for de Montfort’s Whistler and Nature.
     Collaborations under our Glasgow Life MoU include Macartney’s Copied by the Sun:
 Talbotype Illustrations to the “Annals of the Artists of Spain” and Unwrapping an Icon projects
 with Pearce and Richter. These have not only generated linked exhibitions and catalogues
 (Kelvingrove Art Gallery/Prado, but also public lectures, workshops, an ARCHLAB EU IPERION
 CH grant, and cross-disciplinary articles. Strickland contributes to the Burrell Collection’s
 External Reference Panel for public engagement, and Economou’s museum visitor engagement
 research supports a SGSAH Applied Research Collaborative PhD on Digital engagement, to
 inform Burrell strategies. CTCTAH projects using Hunterian and Glasgow Life material
 (Barkcloth; Conserving Canvas etc.) have built a strong foundation for our intended UKRI World
 Class Labs regional hub bid (see Sect. 1).
     Royal Society of Edinburgh-funded Networks have been a further important engine for local
 collaborations with international benefit: e.g. Economou’s RSE Scottish Network for the
 Evaluation of Digital Cultural Resources, bringing together the National Library of Scotland,
 National Trust for Scotland, Soluis company, and University of Strathclyde, led to her EU Digital
 Cultural Resources EMOTIVE project with four European museums.
      Individual initiatives have been equally dynamic. Cook’s NEoN (NorthEast of North) Digital
 Festival programmes in Dundee since 2014 have used exhibitions and events in disused local
 factories as well as galleries and museums to explore digital and new media artists as ‘future
 media archaeologists’; this attracted a 3-year Creative Scotland funding and public engagement
 award (see below), leading to exhibitions beyond Scotland such as 24/7 and Sleep Mode, 2019-
 20 (over 45,000 visitors). Lewer’s highly innovative art, faith and theology research engages very
 wide publics including refugees, asylum seekers, LGBTQ+, and special needs groups, and
 fosters interfaith dialogue through training and engagement events for organisations ranging
 from the Iona Community, Greenbelt Festival of Arts, Faith and Justice, Gladstone’s Library, to

                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Dioceses of Glasgow and Galloway and Edinburgh, and Wiener Library for Holocaust and
 Genocide Studies. During Covid, working in collaboration with St. Mary’s Episcopal Cathedral,
 Glasgow, Lewer’s highly successful podcasts analysing artworks from a Christian perspective
 prompted her invitation from St. Paul’s Cathedral to write ‘Reflections’ for its website. This work
 has strong potential to support a future impact case study.


 4.2 International Collaboration:
 Several dedicated frameworks for international collaborations that arise from museum/collection
 research have been consolidated during the review period, notably the Smithsonian Institutional
 Partnership, and Pearce’s German/American Provenance Research Exchange Program for
 Museum Professionals (see Impact Case study), whilst we benefit as a continuing member of
 the Lunder Consortium for Whistler Studies. Bringing together the principal Whistler collections
 worldwide, this provides an international matrix for our research on this major artist.
     Our increased focus on interdisciplinary approaches has been a further strong driver for
 international collaboration. As well as Lennard’s Barkcloth project work with Antipodean
 partners, Quye’s Royal Society of Edinburgh and Carnegie Trust ‘Dyeversity’ projects involved
 dye analysis with chemists from Amsterdam and Pisa Universities and chemical history with
 Maastricht University, plus an EU Marie-Curie Fellowship for a Delhi conservation scientist. This
 informed the V&A’s Fabric of India and Inspired From Nature exhibitions; impact includes the
 UNESCO Crutchley Dye Archive listing, and Southwark Council’s new Walworth Heritage
 Centre. Lennard’s From the Golden Age to the Digital Age: Modelling and monitoring historic
 tapestries (Leverhulme) collaborated with the Bayeux Tapestry and Historisches Museum, Bern,
 as well as The Burrell and National Trust, to apply engineering techniques to conservation and
 display of tapestries, helping to change tapestry display and interpretation internationally.
 Richter’s technical work with organisations including the Doerner Institut and Bavarian State
 Paintings Collection, Munich, and Disent AB Cultural Heritage Preservation, Stockholm, has
 informed conservation and public interpretation of medieval murals.
     Macartney’s Unwrapping an Icon Santander project has in turn used insights from technical
 research by Richter to re-attribute a major Spanish Golden Age painting in Glasgow Museums,
 for an intended joint exhibition with The Prado; this builds on her Copied by the Sun
 collaboration involving chemists (see above) on pioneer photography in the University’s Stirling
 Maxwell collections.
     International partnerships have produced educational impact, as well as being central to our
 promotion of inclusivity. Roodt worked with the Grimwade Conservation Centre for Cultural
 Materials Conservation, University of Melbourne to develop its pioneering training programme on
 'Authenticity, Law and Ethics in Curricula Provision for Art Fraud', 2017-2018, that benefits
 galleries, dealers, and law agencies, whilst Lennard’s Barkcloth involved partnership with
 museums and practitioners in New Zealand and Hawaii, as the origin sites for the cultural
 heritage concerned. Lewer’s art, faith and theology engagements have led to an invitation from
 church, community and inter-faith organisations in Lincoln and Omaha (Nebraska, USA) and in
 Chicago, to lead a series of art-faith events, with anticipated benefits for disadvantaged and
 minority groups. Ross’s and Cook’s contemporary art Curatorial Practice projects for the
 Fak'ugesi Festival of African Digital Innovation, Johannesburg, 2017, and International
 Symposium for Electronic Art, Durban, 2018, underpin Ross’s Scottish Funding Council project
 Capturing Silenced and Peripherised histories in (South) Africa, and are helping to decolonise
 art history through our joint curatorial Master’s programme with Glasgow School of Art, and
 contribution to the School of Humanities Museum Studies MSc.



                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.3 Policy and Advisory work
 Our interdisciplinary and object-based approach enables a multitude of contributions in this area.
 Economou’s Digital Cultural Humanities research (EU Horizon) is helping to shape European
 museum-access policies, and Roodt’s advice on stolen and looted art has been incorporated in
 the Dunhuang Declaration, UN Resolution 9 Dec. 2015, and used by the South Korean
 government, and China University of Political Science and Law. Lennard sits on the Bayeux
 Tapestry Scientific Committee and advises the Centre national de la recherche scientifique,
 Paris. Torma’s Royal Society of Edinburgh China Art Research Network (CARN) led to advisory
 appointments at the Smart Museum of Art/University of Chicago and Hong Kong University. At
 home, Strickland advised the Scottish Jewish Archives Centre and University of Edinburgh
 interdisciplinary ‘Jewish Lives, Scottish Spaces’ AHRC project to promote, catalogue and
 conserve Scottish Jewish Archives collections, and host community outreach strategies. We
 shape national policies on contemporary art via Paterson’s Chairmanship of the Glasgow Centre
 for Contemporary Art programming committee (2014-18), and membership of the ‘Curatorial
 Leadership in Collections’ Scottish network and Creative Scotland Regularly Funded
 Organisation Panel. MacDonald’s Whistler Paintings and earlier digital resources are used by
 auction houses and art dealers worldwide, and she is regularly consulted on Whistler attribution.
     The Unit also benefits cultural organisations via governance roles. These range from
 Pearce’s National Galleries of Scotland Trusteeship and Major Capital Projects Strategic
 Board/Research Committee Chair roles, to Lewer’s Trusteeship of the Solas Festival of Arts,
 Faith and Justice (2013-16), and Tuckett’s of the Scottish Tartan Authority. Overseas roles
 include Strickland’s membership of the International Center of Medieval Art board, New York
 and Nichols’s of the Comitato Scientifico for Medioevo Veneto, University of Padova. Young sits
 on two expert committees advising the Getty Foundation on conservation and science research
 investment, and the committee advising the Rijksmuseum on structural conservation for
 Rembrandt’s Night Watch.


 4.4 Influencing Heritage Industries, and Collaboration for Conservation
 These are major aspects of our work, via consultancies, major projects, and knowledge
 exchange such as Lennard’s Barkcloth workshops. Rush’s major consultancy with Historic
 Environment Scotland led to its Unicorn project to enhance public interpretation of Linlithgow
 Palace; this built on her Stirling Palace HES work during the previous REF cycle, and underpins
 a potential future impact case study. Willsdon’s Woburn Abbey consultancy (2018) likewise
 informed the public interpretation of artwork there. CTCTAH’s large funded projects have
 generated numerous examples of benefit, as evident from previous sections; further examples
 include Young’s ‘IMPASTOW’ (EPSRC) project with engineers at Imperial College London
 (informing the National Trust’s Jacobean portrait displays, Knole House), and Leverhulme
 ‘Power to Transform’ project on scenic artists and painted stage cloths (creating a unique body
 of understanding and a legacy of the profession, via archival research and oral histories of
 scenic artists in Great Britain; this is informing, for instance, the redevelopment of the Citizens
 Theatre, Glasgow). Quye’s historical dye research has been used by heritage organisations
 including Kensington Palace (for the reinstallation of Queen Anne’s Bed Canopy, 2017).


 4.5 Wider contributions to the research base and sustainability of the discipline

 4.5.1 Conferences, lectures etc.:
 During the review period we have chaired major international specialist conferences at the Unit,
 such as the Biennial of the Society of Renaissance Studies (Nichols, 2016) and the European

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Association for Chinese Studies (Torma, 2018). We have also led specialist workshops, public
 symposia, study days, etc., such as de Montfort’s and Willsdon’s British Art Research Network
 events on women’s art (with Tate Britain, 2017, 2018), and ‘Whistler, Nature and Science’ (2019,
 see above). Many have involved a distinctive interdisciplinary dimension, such as Lennard’s
 Barkcloth workshops at Auckland War Memorial Museum and Bishop Museum, Hawaii, 2017,
 and Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, 2018, whilst Lewer was the first ever art historian to lead (by
 invitation) the Glasgow & Galloway and Edinburgh Diocesan Conferences (both 2019).
     We also regularly give invited keynote lectures and public talks (many with subsequent
 podcast), plus specialist conference papers; these additionally contribute to our ‘reach’.
 Highlights include public lectures by MacDonald at the Houston Museum of Art, 2015, Royal
 Academy, London, and Frick Collection, New York, 2019 (on Whistler), Cook at the Royal
 Academy (on digital revolutions) and the Media Majlis opening, Doha, Qatar (on museums and
 new media), Strickland at the J. Paul Getty Museum, Los Angeles; University of Cambridge; and
 Goethe University, Frankfurt (2016-19, on medieval art), and by Willsdon at the Petit Palais,
 Paris, 2018, and Royal Academy 2019 (on Impressionism). Wieber gave four invited keynotes
 on Modernist design in Budapest, Montreal, Kingston (Canada) and the Kunsthistorische Forum
 Irsee, that included findings from research for her forthcoming book on Jugendstil Women
 (Bloomsbury, 2021). In Asia, Roodt spoke at the 4th and 6th International Conferences of Experts
 on the Return of Cultural Property (Dunhuang, China, 2014, and Gyeongju, South Korea, 2016;
 invited by their respective governments), as well as at the Japan Society for the Conservation of
 Cultural Property, Kyoto, 2015. Quye spoke at the National China Silk Museum Biennial on
 Natural Dyes, 2019, Hangzhou, China.

 4.5.2 Other indicators of influence:
 Cook’s art-science curatorial research won a National Coordinating Centre for Public
 Engagement Excellence Gold award for the School of Life Sciences, University of Dundee, and
 her 24/7 podcast was nominated for a British Podcast Award. Roodt’s Private International Law,
 Art and Cultural Heritage (2015) was nominated for the Herbert Jacob Prize of the American
 Society of International Law; and the Hart Book prize of the Socio-Legal Studies Association.
 Quye’s PGR Wertz won the inaugural 2015 British Science Association Jacob Bronowski Award
 Lecture for Science and the Arts. Roodt was Professor Extraordinaria and Research Fellow,
 University of South Africa (2013-17); Torma is Professor at the University of Helsinki. Other
 appointments that reflect our influence include Lewer’s as Lifelong Senior Fellow of the
 Alexander Humboldt Foundation, and as Visiting Scholar, Sarum Centre for Theology,
 Imagination and Culture, where she contributes to training of ordinands at Sarum Theological
 College. US Fellowships include Pearce’s (Smithsonian), Quye’s Getty Conservation Institute
 Fellowship (2022, delayed by Covid, to support a forthcoming book), and Nichols’s Paul Mellon
 Fellowship at the National Gallery of Art, Washington D.C., that resulted in three major articles
 on Jacopo Bassano. The research underpinning the development of Cook’s Tate Fellowship
 (Reshaping the Collectible, from 2021) contributes to new strategies for collection and
 preservation of digital art.
     We are very active in peer review, both for the AHRC and ESRC, and for national research
 bodies in nine countries overseas. This work is complemented by our external examinerships,
 and editorial and national board positions (e.g. Lewer, board of Art History; Willsdon, Higher
 Education Committee of Association for Art History). Similarly, we review manuscripts for major
 presses (Oxford, Cambridge, Toronto, Princeton, Harvard, Routledge, MIT, etc) and some 24
 journals across the spectrum of art history, museum/heritage studies, and conservation science.

                                       ---------------------------


                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 In this uncertain world, our research investigates, interprets, conserves, and engages others with
 the images and objects that anchor our past, embody our visions, or sustain our beliefs. Since
 2014 we have transformed our scope and approaches by reaching more broadly across
 disciplines, countries and cultures, strengthening old partnerships and building new ones, and
 embracing new specialisms. We now seek to develop this in the conviction that art and design
 express our human identity, and that our research – whether utilising hot tables, exploring time
 and the body, or harnessing neuroscience to interpret gardens – therefore has a vital role in
 helping to shape a post-Covid world of resilience, equality, diversity, and inclusivity.




                                                                                           Page 17
