Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Glasgow

 Unit of Assessment:UoA5

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Unit structure.
 The College of Medical, Veterinary and Life Science is sub-divided into three Schools and seven
 Research Institutes. The staff returned to UoA5 are all affiliated to one Research Institute
 namely, the Institute of Molecular, Cell and Systems Biology (herein referred to as the Institute).
 Staff are line managed by the Director who reports to Head of College. The Director is
 supported by two Deputies, a Head of Professional Services, Chairs of Teaching, Research,
 Impact, Athena SWAN and Early Career Researcher committees who collectively form the
 Institute Management Group.
 Research context.
 Our Institute is divided into two overarching, cross-disciplinary themes, each with a translational
 portfolio:
 1) Basic and applied bioscience to study health and disease:
 Our expertise in molecular, biological, genetic, and biochemical approaches to cell and protein
 function; chemical biology; structural biology; and bioengineering is complemented through
 strong interdisciplinary links with the Schools of Chemistry, and Engineering. We have world-
 leading strengths in the following areas:
    •   molecular and translational pharmacology
    •   structural and mechanistic studies of protein function
    •   redox biology
    •   cellular microenvironment
 2) Sustaining agriculture and food:
 We are addressing the problems of sustainable agriculture by understanding how plants
 perceive, respond, and adapt to changes in their environment and by developing alternative
 ways to tackle pest control. We have exceptional strength in the following research areas:

    •   plant sciences – specifically light and temperature sensing in plants, and improving plant
        water use efficiency and stress tolerance
    •   neuropeptides as novel pesticides
 Research strategy 2014-2020.
 The 2014 submission detailed our plans to develop our research themes. Specifically, we aimed
 to:
    •   develop cross-disciplinary strengths in chemical biology impacting molecular and
        translational pharmacology, structural and mechanistic aspects of protein function, and
        redox biology
    •   increase capacity in biomolecular analysis impacting all research areas
    •   develop more applied areas of plant sciences such as food security impacting the
        sustaining agriculture and food research areas.
 Establishing Centres for the Cellular Microenvironment and Translational Pharmacology
 was not in the 2014 submission, but it became a core strategy subsequently.




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Chemical Biology: We developed chemical biology approaches within our research themes by
 organising research sandpits between UoA5 and School of Chemistry (SoC) staff, leading to
 cross-disciplinary research awards (total value £6M) including an MRC discovery award
 (Bulleid, Hartley), MRC project grant (Tobin, Jamieson), BBSRC project grants (Tokatlidis,
 Jamieson), (Tokatlidis, Hartley), (Stark, Magennis), (Bulleid, Smith, Hartley) and (Dow,
 Davies, Liskamp), and an EPSRC grant (Kadodwala, Lapthorn, Milner). We have also built
 collaborations with SoC to develop our Centre for Translational Pharmacology (see below).
 Biomolecular Analysis: We invested significantly in equipment and personnel to ensure we
 can interrogate mechanism using structural biology. Since 2014 we expanded our capacity in
 all three structural biology techniques. For cryoEM, match funding and infrastructure
 development secured a £4.4M MRC grant to establish a national imaging facility, the Scottish
 Centre for Macromolecular Imaging. Additional investment enabled the recruitment of da
 Fonseca and Spagnolo, experts in protein single particle cryoEM. For NMR spectroscopy and
 X-ray crystallography we invested in equipment (section 3) and appointed Walden which led to a
 £1.4M Wellcome Trust Investigator award and a £1.6M ERC Consolidator award.
 Plant Science and Food Security: Our strategy to develop interdisciplinary approaches, as
 well as new synthetic strategies to improve plant performance has allowed us to address key
 challenges facing sustainable agriculture. For instance, we have harnessed our expertise in
 mineral nutrition to enhance soybean performance and nutritional quality that will ultimately
 benefit the bioeconomy in India and elsewhere (Plant Cell, 2014). Our Arabidopsis based
 optogenetic manipulation of stomatal function allows us to improve carbon assimilation, water
 use and growth (Science 2019), resulting in PCT filing (WO/2020/169973). We have taken
 fundamental discoveries in insect neuropeptides (PNAS, 2015) and developed novel insecticides
 to replace damaging toxic chemicals (spin-out Solasta Bioscience).
 Centre for the Cellular Microenvironment was formed under the directorship of Dalby and
 Salmeron-Sanchez. Berry, Dalby and Riehle joined with Cantini, Gonzalez-Garcia and
 Salmeron-Sanchez from the School of Engineering (SoE), to form a highly interdisciplinary team
 to develop research into the manipulation of stem cell differentiation. Subsequently, the group
 led a successful EPSRC CDT bid to train 84 PhD students (2019-2024) in Glasgow, Birmingham
 and Galway in interdisciplinary science to address challenges in drug screening. This highly
 collaborative group publish with chemists (Chem, 2016) and physicists (Nature Biomedical
 Engineering, 2018) as well as plastic and orthopaedic surgeons (Acta Biomaterialia 2017, ACS
 Nano 2020) attracting joint grants from Nc3Rs Crackit challenge, Sir Bobby Charlton Foundation
 (SBCF), EPSRC, MRC, and H2O2. The group have had great success in the development of
 technologies to replace the use of animals in research, built through the convergence of
 physical and life sciences. These technologies include bioreactors, engineered
 microenvironments and microfluidic/lab on chip technologies that are used to create in vitro
 models for enhanced drug discovery as well as for regenerative medicine.
 Centre for Translational Pharmacology aims to determine the molecular mechanisms of drug
 efficacy in the context of human diseases to inform the rational design of next generation drugs

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and translate this to practice. The Centre has raised over £13.1M of external funding and has
 established productive external collaborations with both academic and industry partners. For
 example, the group collaborates with AstraZeneca, Eli Lilly and Sosei-Heptares to translate
 fundamental work to drug target evaluation thereby developing new therapeutics (Nature
 Chemical Biology, 2019, 2020). The group have uncovered novel targets for the treatment of
 malaria (Science, 2019) (spin-out Keltic Pharma) as well as type II diabetes and non-alcoholic
 steatohepatosis (spin-out Caldan Therapeutics) and asthma (Science Translational Medicine,
 2020).
 Success of our research strategy since 2014 is exemplified by:
    •   a transformation in our ability to secure research funding with an increase of research
        income from £5.3M to £9.4M (Ref 4b) between 2014 and 2019 and increased research
        income per member of staff from £155k to £275k/FTE/annum (note a drop in income in
        2020 due to COVID19 lockdown).
    •   all staff submitted to UoA5 have held research funding over the period. 95% of staff
        currently have research grant funding.
    •   major awards from the BBSRC (LoLa and project grants), Wellcome Trust Collaborative
        and Investigator awards (4), ERC (consolidator award), MRC and EPSRC (programme
        grants), Leverhulme and SBCF, MRC (discovery grant), Cure Huntington Disease
        Initiative (CHDI) and EU (H2020 innovation and RIA grants).
    •   significant major postgraduate training grants from the EU (ITN x 2) and EPSRC (CDT).
    •   gaining recognition through election to prestigious societies: Academy of Medical
        Sciences FMedSci (Milligan), Royal Society of Edinburgh FRSE (Christie, Dalby,
        Davies, Insall and Tokatlidis) and EMBO (Tokatlidis).
    •   recruitment of 7 new independent research fellows with fellowships from the Royal
        Society (Karnik), UKRI (Dobson), Wellcome Trust (Sanz), and the University of
        Glasgow (UofG) Lord Kelvin Adam Smith (LKAS) scheme (Bradley, Hudson, Colloms,
        Kaiserli). Several of these recruits have now transitioned to academic posts within the
        unit (Bradley, Colloms, Hudson, Kaiserli).
    •   winning of major prizes including, the Biochemical Society Industrial-Academic
        Collaboration Award (Dalby), the Goodwin Prize (Cogdell), the JR Vane Medal for
        Pharmacology (Milligan), the Muscular Dystrophy UK Scientist of the Year and
        Huntington’s Disease Society of America Researcher of the Year (Monckton), and Royal
        Society/Wolfson Merit awards (Bulleid, Tobin, Tokatlidis).
 Strategy for future research.
 Our future strategy aims to:
    •   further strengthen interdisciplinary research with a focus on translational activity
        within molecular and translational pharmacology, plant sciences, cell microenvironment
        and redox biology.
    •   develop more large collaborative grants between individuals within and outside UofG.
 To facilitate these aims we will take advantage of the opportunities arising from the on-campus
 development of the Advanced Research Centre (section 3). To stimulate collaborative growth,
 we will fund fellowship opportunities, academic positions and PhD studentships focusing on our
 core strengths. Specifically:
    •   the Centre for Translational Pharmacology (Tobin, Milligan, Bradley, Hudson) will
        probe the function and drug targeting of G-protein Coupled Receptors (GPCRs) to define
        new therapeutics. Further, they will initiate new interdisciplinary collaborations with
        optical physicists to visualise brain architecture during neurodegenerative disease to



                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        assess the efficacy of drugs. These efforts will harness our expanding partnerships with
        the biopharmaceutical sector.
    •   our world-leading plant science group (Amtmann, Blatt, Christie, Jenkins, Jones,
        Kaiserli, Karnik, Milner) will translate new discoveries on how abiotic factors impact
        photosynthetic productivity, growth, and yield into modern crops and farming
        practices. To achieve this aim, we will foster links with the James Hutton Institute and
        John Innes Centre.
    •   the Centre for the Cellular Microenvironment (Berry, Dalby, Riehle) with colleagues
        in SoE, will capitalise on its position as a top UK Centre for biomedical materials
        research. Recent successes in the treatment of bone fractures in veterinary patients will
        progress towards human trials. In addition, we will translate new discoveries in nerve
        regeneration to the clinic with our surgical and neuroscience collaborators.
    •   the redox biology grouping (Bulleid, Dobson, Sanz, Tokatlidis) will apply their
        expertise to diseases associated with altered mitochondrial function or cell stress. Our
        strategy will be to build on current collaborations with cardiovascular scientists at UofG
        (UoA1), particularly within BHF Centre of Excellence to translate fundamental
        discoveries into the clinic.
 Strategy for driving impact - 2014 onwards.
 Our aim since 2014 and going forward is to:
    •   nurture nascent impact cases while retaining academic excellence to develop new spin-
        out companies or to deliver societal change.
 Our strategy was developed prior to the BBSRC Excellence with Impact competition (led by
 Milligan) where we were awarded top ranked University in 2016. To provide more impact focus
 we appointed an impact champion (Dalby). Our strategy to ensure long-term growth of impact is
 based on:
    •   focussed engagement and training for all staff including ECRs.
    •   targeted opportunity audits and seed funding to translate ideas to impact.
 Focused engagement and training.
 The impact champion engages with all UoA5 staff to organise outreach events – including Royal
 Society Summer Exhibition 2016 and 2018, research exhibition at the Glasgow Science Centre,
 Science Sundays at UofG, Glasgow Botanical Gardens Centenary Celebrations, Plant
 Explorathon, and Images on the Clyde. Our research staff, particularly ECRs, regularly win
 impact competitions within the College, e.g. impact in 60 seconds, 3-minute thesis and Impact
 with Excellence Twitter competition. This increase in ‘grass roots’ societal impact is aided by a
 social media committee that coordinates outreach activities. In addition, we embed impact
 training within our doctoral programmes. All our postgraduate students engage with industry
 and stakeholder partners. For example, both our ITNs involve companies developing novel anti-
 cancer therapies by targeting oncogenic GPCRs or green pesticides. In addition, the EPSRC-
 CDT includes 20 companies (plus a range of other stakeholders e.g. charity, funders, regulators
 etc.) that provide funding for student training as part of the programme.
 We actively fund societal impact. Examples of this strategy having impact include the Karnik
 group who developed an interactive exhibit called Stomatoy to demonstrate plant light sensing to
 the public. Stomatoy was developed with BBSRC Impact Accelerator Award (IAA) funding
 providing professional advice to develop meaningful feedback. Monckton works with
 Huntington disease and myotonic dystrophy charities around the world, presenting to patient
 groups, and designing information packs. Monckton won the Muscular Dystrophy UK Scientist
 of the Year and Huntington’s Disease Society of America Researcher of the Year as recognition
 of his research and dedication to public education.



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Targeted opportunity audits and seed funding.
 Since 2017, delivery of our translational impact strategy has been through the “Translational
 Research Initiative” (TRI, led by Tobin). The TRI brings together technology transfer and
 business development expertise alongside UofG’s investment partners providing access to
 translational funding of over £4.5M from MRC (Confidence in Concept (CiC), Proximity to
 Discovery (P2D)), BBSRC (Impact Accelerator Award (IAA)), Wellcome Trust (Translational
 Partnership (WT-TPA)) and UofG.
 Through TRI, we fund “opportunity audits” with external entrepreneurial consultants to assess
 latent opportunities for translation. The audits provide targeted training, support for innovation,
 and opportunities to discuss research ideas with a panel of experts from industry. The approach
 has delivered several translational opportunities, supported through funding, business
 development expertise, and relevant training.
 Below we highlight some examples of identified and funded opportunities since 2014 that will
 increase the impact of our research (see also section 3):
 Milligan, with support from Hudson, spun-out a company (Caldan Therapeutics Limited, 2015)
 to commercialise research on GPCRs that are activated by long chain fatty acids. The research
 funding came from the BBSRC (total value £1.7m) and the Danish Agency for Science,
 Technology and Innovation (£2M). Initial investment of £4.55M was led by Epidarex Capital and
 a further £3.5M was raised in 2019/2020. The company is underpinned by a patent with
 identified drugs showing excellent efficacy in models of diet-induced obesity. This is one of our
 submitted UoA5 impact cases.
 Dalby and Salmeron-Sanchez’s research on a cellular therapy for bone regeneration has
 undergone successful veterinary trials and has funding for a trial in humans. The team have
 funding from BBSRC, EPSRC and STFC IAAs and have BBSRC follow-on funding pathfinder
 awards (totalling £19k), and super follow-on fund grants (£782k) to investigate the market,
 overcome technical challenges and to scale-up cell manufacture.
 Tobin is developing a novel approach to the treatment of malaria (Science, 2019). He obtained
 CiC funds (£73k) to develop lead molecules that target PfCLK3 forming part of the Medicines for
 Malaria Venture drug development pipeline. He has funding from the Bill and Melinda Gates
 Foundation (£90k) and MRC DPFS (£850k) to screen for novel anti-malarials. In addition,
 alternative screens funded through the European Lead Factory (£50k) will identify inhibitors of
 PfCLK3. Finally, a Japanese pharmaceutical consortium is funding drug screening with a local
 CRO partner (Bioascent) (£50k). Tobin, Milligan and Jamieson (SoC) founded Keltic Pharma
 (2020) with >£20M investment from the European Malaria Fund to exploit these and related
 opportunities (section 3).
 Tokatlidis, has developed mitochondria targeting peptides for drug delivery with WT-TPA Early
 Concept Development funding (£20k), BBSRC and EPSRC IAA funding (£29k) for technical
 development and P2D funding (£10k) to fuel industrial engagement.
 Milner is developing bacteriocin technology with support from PBL Technologies. He has
 patented his discovery and secured BBSRC IAA (£8k) and BBSRC Follow-on Funding (£202k)
 to characterise the stability, efficacy, resistance to, and methods of delivery of bacteriocins.
 Strategy for interdisciplinary research
 We actively support interdisciplinary research by:
   • Funding small workshops, sandpits, and seminars bringing together multidisciplinary
        teams including researchers, and industry, with shared interests. The sandpits with SoC
        led to joint grant funding and workshops with SoE and various stakeholders led to the
        EPSRC CDT bringing a cross-disciplinary, multi-partner consortium together to deliver
        PGR training. Note that of the 86 papers selected for submission in this return, 14%
        have authors from different disciplines.
   • Providing leadership for the ARC: the ARC is intrinsically cross-disciplinary, and
        Tobin’s directorship (see section 3) facilitates links with colleagues from Physics,
        Chemistry and Engineering.

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •    Supporting early career researchers to bridge disciplinary boundaries by providing
         fellowship and PGR scholarship opportunities for those interested in interdisciplinary
         research (called Lord Kelvin Adam Smith (LKAS) Awards). Kaiserli, Colloms, Bradley
         and Hudson were recruited to UofG through this fellowship scheme and UoA5
         supervisors have been successful in securing 6 LKAS studentships in the assessment
         period.

 Research integrity
 UofG’s approach to promoting a culture of research integrity is included as a case study for the
 UK Research Integrity Office and Royal Society. We have embedded a supportive culture
 providing training to help established staff, and ECRs, to better understand research integrity.
 We appointed an integrity champion (Milligan) who disseminates best practice through regular
 presentations and all staff complete an integrity training course. In addition, staff supervising
 ECRs undergo mandatory supervisor training which includes research integrity. UofG has
 developed a resource document ‘Code of Good Practice in Research’ available to all staff
 complementing the one-page UK Research Integrity Organisation checklist for key points of
 good practice.


 Open research
 Open publication and sharing data for re-use are key to improved integrity. The evidence of
 success in open access publishing is an increase in compliance from 36% in 2014 to 90% in
 2019. 100% of UoA5 category A staff have an ORCID and staff are encouraged to use pre-
 publishing sites such as BioRxiv. Further, UoA5 staff are supported by the UofG library making
 raw data accessible upon publication. Data are curated for at least 10 years on UKRI compliant
 servers and a DOI is provided so that the data can be linked from the original article as well as
 from individual staff profiles.

 2. People

 Staffing structure.
 The 36 category A staff (34.29FTE) within UoA5 comprise 21 Professors (15M/6F), 3 Readers
 (2M/1F), 9 Senior Lecturers (6M/3F), 1 Lecturer (M) and 2 Research Fellows (1M/1F). The UoA
 also comprises 50 post-doctoral researchers (PDRAs) and 75 PhD students. We have
 instigated several staffing strategies, which aim to enhance retention, create a vibrant research
 culture, and provide support towards career development enriching the working environment for
 all within the UoA. We obtained our Bronze (2017) and Silver (2020) Athena SWAN awards in
 recognition of our commitment to providing a supportive and flexible working environment, and
 progress towards achieving increasing inclusivity.
 To support our staff, we employ 14 core-funded and 20 grant-funded technicians, and 7
 administrative staff. The technical staff are either embedded in individual laboratories or within
 the core facilities providing support for specialised techniques such as imaging and biophysical
 characterisation of proteins. The administrative staff manage our research grant portfolio and
 give personal administration support.
 Staffing strategy.
 Our staffing strategy focuses on providing an environment that attracts and retains talent.
 Recruitment:
 Our strategy has been two-fold:
     •   making use of internal and external fellowships to attract individuals at the start of their
         career.



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     •   actively recruiting established researchers to strategically important areas.
 Our recruitment process is transparent with candidates, prior to interview, being invited to give a
 research presentation to all staff and students. Interview panels are inclusive, and all panel
 members undertake unconscious bias, and equality and diversity training.
 Examples of our successful recruitment to specific areas of strength include:
 Molecular pharmacology: we recruited Tobin to enable, with Milligan, the development of a
 Centre for Translational Pharmacology. They recruited Hudson and Bradley (via LKAS
 fellowship funding), who have since been promoted to core-funded Lecturer and Senior
 Lectureship positions, respectively. Tobin’s recruitment led to a £4.2M Wellcome Trust
 Collaborative award; MRC grants of £2.1M, £1.9M, and £1.6M and BBSRC grants totalling
 £3.3M. The group has published several major papers since inception (Nature, 2016, 2020; J.
 Clin. Invest., 2017; Science, 2019; Science Trans. Medicine, 2020, Nature Chem. Biol., 2019;
 2020, Nature Methods, 2019).
 Structural and mechanistic studies of protein function: the recruitment of Walden, da
 Fonseca and Spagnolo has bolstered our structural biology capability in crystallography and
 cryoEM. In addition, we recruited Kurz to a Readership position. His research interests
 complement Walden’s, extending our expertise into the role of ubiquitination in regulation of
 protein function. Several high-quality publications have emanated from this group (Nature,
 2016; Cell, 2016; Nature Structural and Mol. Biol., 2017; Mol. Cell, 2019; Nature Chem. Biol.,
 2020).
 Sustaining agriculture and food: To maintain our excellence in plant sciences we attracted
 Karnik and Kaiserli to join us with a Royal Society Research Fellowship and LKAS fellowship
 respectively. Kaiserli has since been appointed to Lecturer and then promoted to Senior
 Lecturer. We also recruited Jones to a Lectureship in plant sciences (now promoted to Senior
 Lecturer). These important appointments have generated BBSRC funding totalling £2M along
 with quality publications (Nature Plants, 2015; Plant Cell, 2015; Dev. Cell, 2015; PNAS, 2019).
 Redox biology: Dobson and Sanz recently joined with a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship and
 Wellcome Senior Research fellowship, respectively. They have complementary research
 interests in the role of oxidative stress and the gut microbiota in ageing. Their contribution to the
 grouping includes eight of our submitted publications (e.g. Cell Met., 2016; eLife, 2016; Nature,
 2017; EMBO Mol. Med., 2018).
 Induction: New staff (academic and ECR) undertake a well-established induction process,
 which is relevant to all staff and includes:
 •  a welcome meeting with the Director of Institute
 •  an induction pack with information on local and HR policies, Athena SWAN, social events,
    seminar series etc. as well as a dedicated induction webpage
 • dedicated “Welcoming Champions”, appointed in each building to provide introductions and
    facilitate settling in.
 Our induction process is evaluated frequently using a feedback questionnaire and annual staff
 survey and is very highly regarded by all staff (83.3% satisfied, 2019).
 Retention: Retention is a key strand to our staffing strategy and since 2014 we have focused
 on providing opportunities for development of existing staff to allow them to achieve their career
 ambitions within the Unit. Through careful staff mentoring we have attained a 92% success
 rate for academic staff promotions with 11 being promoted over the period (seven Senior
 Lecturer, three to Professor). All female academic staff promotions have been successful (six)
 with three at Professorial level.
 Over the same period, we have a 90% success rate for our post-doctoral staff promotions
 between grades 6-8 (14 female/6 male). Finally, we have nominated three staff for Royal
 Society/Wolfson merit awards since 2014 with each one being successful, providing external
 recognition of the quality of these individuals and the importance of their retention.


                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff development is managed through our Performance & Development Review (P&DR)
 process and mentoring scheme. P&DR is carried out by one member of a gender-balanced
 team of four. The team meets before and after the review process to discuss individual reviews
 and to provide consistency. The team approach ensures that one person is not carrying out
 more than eight reviews and adds checks and balances into the process. For our PDRAs,
 reviews are carried out by the direct line-manager. All P&DR appraisers are trained to carry out
 these meetings and how to set SMART objectives. The review entails objective setting, a
 discussion of the last year’s achievements, devising a professional development plan for the
 next year and a performance evaluation, as well as covering opportunities for promotion.
 We mentor our staff on a one-to-one basis with meetings between mentors and mentees taking
 place every three months. All current and new staff 'opt-in' to the scheme by completing our
 online mentor form. Staff are given the option of requesting a specific mentor. On completion, a
 mentor is assigned based on the stated applicants’ needs. Staff survey data confirm that the
 mentoring scheme is a great success, with 98% of respondents agreeing that it was beneficial
 to their personal development.
 Communication is key to staff satisfaction and in creating an inclusive culture for our staff. It is
 particularly important for our Institute as staff are split between different buildings. We have
 fortnightly informal academic forums and quarterly staff meetings, biannual away days for
 academic staff and annual away days for ECRs, as well as an annual graduate symposium for
 our PhD students. In addition, we run an external seminar series and an internal seminar series
 followed by a social event specifically for ECRs. We are very active in social media with a
 specific committee which evaluates our web presence and co-ordinates our Facebook and
 Twitter account. Quarterly informal ‘coffee morning’ meetings take place to promote a friendly
 and welcoming culture and ensure opportunities for discussion and networking between all
 UoA5 staff. The importance of communication has never been as important as most recently
 during the COVID19 restrictions. We have maintained our regular meeting via Zoom and now
 have additional “all staff” monthly update meetings.
 Inclusion strategy: Inclusion is about more than achieving a gender balance, it is also about
 providing an environment where all feel welcome and can flourish without discrimination.
 Alongside core hours, gender representative committees and flexible working, we have
 developed an equality, diversity, and inclusion plan alongside our Athena SWAN action plan and
 our EPSRC CDT, which now spans our community and dovetails with UofG’s strategy for
 supporting disability, gender, LGBT+ and BAME groups.
 We have dedicated webpages, newsletter and conduct an inclusion and work/life balance survey
 every two years. The survey data are shared and discussed at annual all staff events, allowing
 us to reflect on progress and focus on improvements. Actions are coordinated through our
 Athena SWAN self-assessment team.
 As a result of our ongoing efforts, UoA5 is now 31% female for academic staff (29% at
 professorial level compared to 11% in 2014) and gender balanced for PGR students. Of the
 appointments since 2014 we have a 50/50 gender balance. Notably we have appointed two
 females and one male to professorial posts and promoted three female professors.
 All those involved in REF processes (including output review and selection) within the UoA
 undertook mandatory training including ED&I principles, unconscious bias, and sensitive data
 handling. In accordance with the University’s Code of Practice, outputs were selected and
 allocated to authors to maximise the UoA’s GPA. An interim equality impact assessment of our
 methodology indicated no significant bias against any protected characteristic.

 ECR support strategy.
 In this section we consider PGR students and PDRAs collectively as ECRs. However, we note
 that there are specific activities that apply to PGR students.
 PGR specific initiatives: Our responsibility to PGR students lies with our cohorts studying for
 either an MSc or PhD. All our PGR supervisors receive compulsory training in supervision every

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 five years. We take inclusion into account during student recruitment. For example, through
 our EPSRC CDT, we have developed our website to promote an inclusive environment with
 positive images of female and BAME students – showing students from all backgrounds that
 they belong in the PhD programme. This has been successful; we have recruited >60% female
 students and >10% BAME students to the 2019 cohort and >60% female and >25% BAME to
 the 2020 cohort; the UK BAME population is ~12% (~4% in Scotland; 2011 Scottish census
 data).
 Recruitment of students from diverse backgrounds into PG research will be further promoted
 through the inclusion of ED&I training within the undergraduate Life Sciences degrees at UofG
 (from 2020 onwards). This compulsory course was developed with funding from Wellcome Trust
 Institutional Strategic Support Fund (ISSF) and challenges perceptions of a career in research.
 We provide training courses in transferable skills to ensure students are prepared for a career
 within or outside academia. Each student is assigned either one (MSc) or two (PhD) advisors
 who offer additional support independent of their direct supervisors (all PhD students must have
 at least two supervisors). Meetings are held with advisors biannually to discuss student
 progress and to provide career advice and mentorship. Each student has a personal
 development plan wherein any additional training or requirements are identified. Our students
 are funded by and supported with resource to attend specific training events organised by
 BBSRC, MRC, EPSRC, Wellcome Trust and the Biochemical Society as well as registration and
 attendance at research conferences.
 Each research group holds frequent meetings to provide PGR students with opportunities to
 develop their presentation skills. The internal seminar series allows PhD students to present to
 a varied audience. These events culminate in an annual graduate symposium providing the
 students with the chance to present their work as talks or posters. At this event, a guest speaker
 (academia/industry/3rd sector) delivers a presentation on their career path and field of research.
 These informal and formal gatherings provide opportunities to discover how different people
 have approached their careers.
 Evidence of our success with PGR students is highlighted by our 100% completion record for
 the period.
 The COVID19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown has created specific problems for our PhD
 students. To mitigate some of the effects, we encouraged all PhD students to spend lockdown
 writing a substantive chapter for their thesis that does not require “wet” lab research. This could
 take the form of a grant application, a review related to their research or bioinformatics analysis.
 Where the lockdown or personal circumstances caused a significant delay in studies, we
 enabled affected students to apply for a fully funded extension to their studies. Since the
 scheme was implemented fifteen students have secured funded extensions ranging from 3-6
 months with an additional student receiving an extension for working at the Glasgow Lighthouse
 COVID19 testing centre.
 Initiatives for all ECRs: Our ECR committee comprises 10 members from all research themes
 and career stages. The committee has access to funds to target specific priorities including
 workshops focussed on grant writing, fellowship applications, academic and non-academic
 career paths, and promotion. It organises PDRA Away Days, including speakers from outside
 academia and key topics such as career development and impact. To ensure inclusion and
 networking of researchers from across the various campus locations, we organise biweekly
 seminars with food and drink provided to create a friendly, sociable environment. These
 sessions have been highly successful in forging a sense of community, greatly improving
 engagement and collaboration between ECRs.
 The chair of the ECR committee is a member of the Institute Management group as well as
 attending College Management Group meetings providing direct representation of the ECR
 community at management meetings. The development of our ECR strategy can be best
 illustrated by ongoing events that have been initiated since the 2014 submission:



                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Biweekly ECR Seminar Series, two speakers per session (with gender balance a priority).
 Organised and attended by ECRs, followed by social networking. All ECR seminars are
 publicised via email and social media.
 Careers in Industry Event. Female role models from industry give talks about careers in
 Pharma. The event is attended by all ECRs.
 ECR Grant Writing Workshop. Attended by approximately 40 ECRs per event and facilitated
 by senior staff. The workshops focus on academic career progression and funding opportunities
 available to ECRs. Both early career and senior academics offer advice on writing fellowship
 grant applications. For example, an overview of BBSRC fellowship opportunities and panel
 considerations was provided by a BBSRC panel member. Other activities include the
 opportunity to participate in a mock interdisciplinary grant writing competition, with groups
 presenting their ideas to an academic panel made up of academics from UoA5. A high
 proportion of attendees (75%) have indicated they were more likely to write a grant/fellowship
 application. Over 95% found the contents of the workshop to be relevant and useful for future
 applications.
 Networking Opportunities. The UoA hosts ‘Meet the Speaker Lunches’ following seminars by
 invited external seminar speakers. This gives our ECRs the opportunity to network and obtain
 valuable career advice from more senior scientists. At these events our social media team
 interview the speaker to hear about their career pathways. The interviews are recorded and
 presented as a Podcast. We have paid attention to attracting female role models to our
 seminars. Some examples of female role models who have joined our meet the speaker events
 include Alison Lloyd (Professor from an AS Gold department), Wendy Bickmore (Director of
 MRC Human Genetics Unit), Judy Hirst (Dean of Corpus Christi College), Lynne Regan
 (Professor of Interdisciplinary Science) and Marisa Martin-Fernandez (Octopus Central Laser
 Facility Science leader).
 Young Life Scientist Symposium 2018. ECRs from UoA5 collaborated with peers from the
 University of Strathclyde to obtain funding and organise a Young Life Scientist Symposium. The
 symposium attracted over 100 ECR attendees. Subjects included an introduction to public
 engagement, shareable science, and grant writing.
 These initiatives have developed our ECR skills as evidenced by:
 •   Our ECRs have applied for and obtained more travel awards (e.g.
     Lister/Bellahouston/Biochemical Society Travelling Fellowships) in the REF period than
     previously to cover the costs of study visits/collaborations with laboratories or institutions
     abroad.
 •   Our ECRs have increased their applications to support the establishment of an independent
     research portfolio, making use of UofG initiatives such as ECR Catalyst Funding available
     through ISSF (7 successful awards ranging in value up to £30k); and, externally via e.g.
     TENOVUS grants (£15k research grants – two successful applications). Further, our clinical
     students have also been competitive in applying for the Royal College of Surgeons grants
     (>£74k raised from three clinical fellows) and a CSO/MDUK fellowship (£230k).
 •   Over the period we had 22 applications for promotion by ECRs to grade 7 or 8 of which 20
     were successful.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Income and awards.
 Between 2014 - 2019, our research income has increased dramatically from £5.3M to £9.4M
 with a concomitant increase in income per FTE from £156k to £275k/annum. A slight drop in
 2020 was due to a lack of expenditure during COVID19 lockdown. Of academic staff, 95% hold
 research grants (July 2020), with over half having awards with a value of over £0.5M and a third
 over £1M, demonstrating a consistent performance rather than a reliance on the success of a
 few. This robust income stream is sustained through high success rates for our grant

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 applications (success rate at BBSRC and MRC in 2019/2020 was 26.8% and 29.4% respectively
 for award value, above the Russell Group median of 24.4% and 6th in the Russell Group for the
 total value of Research & Innovation grants awarded).
 Examples of major awards to our areas of research strength include.
 Molecular and translational pharmacology:
    •    Collaborative network to define the molecular determinants of GPCR clinical efficacy
         (Tobin), Wellcome Trust Collaborative Award– £4.2M
    •    MICA Pharmacological, molecular and cellular mechanisms of muscarinic slowing
         (modification) of neurodegenerative disease (Tobin, Bradley), MRC - £2.1M
    •    The organisational structure of class A GPCRs: Implications for pharmacology, function
         and therapeutic regulation (Milligan), MRC - £1.8M)

 Structural and mechanistic aspects of protein function:
    •    Establishing the Scottish Centre for Macromolecular Imaging (SCMI) (Bhella, Spagnolo
         and Walden), MRC - £4.4M
    •    Regulation of DNA interstrand crosslink repair by ubiquitin (Walden), ERC Consolidator
         award - £1.6M
    •    Mechanisms of ubiquitin signalling in Parkinson's Disease (Walden), Wellcome Trust
         Investigator award - £1.4M

 Redox biology:
    •    Protein Folding and Thiol Modification in the Mammalian Endoplasmic Reticulum
         (Bulleid), Wellcome Trust Investigator award - £1.5M.
    •    Thiol Modification and Redox Signalling, MRC discovery award (Bulleid, Tokatlidis,
         Hartley (UoA8), Touyz (UoA1), Selman (UoA6), Barrett (UoA1), Burchmore (UoA1) –
         £0.6M.
    •    ROS via RET: a redox regulated pathway to extend lifespan (Sanz), Wellcome Trust
         Senior Research Fellowship (SRF) - £1.4M.

 Centre for Cellular Microenvironment:
    •    Engineering growth factor microenvironments – a new therapeutic paradigm for
         regenerative medicine (Dalby, Salmeron-Sanchez), EPSRC - £4.5M.
    •    GMP manufacture and pre-clinical testing of bioengineered bone graft. (Dalby,
         Salmeron-Sanchez), EU - £5M.
    •    Combined technologies for robust engineering of bone grafts with controlled geometry
         (Dalby, Salmeron-Sanchez), SBCF charity - £2.8M.

 Sustaining Agriculture and food:
    •    Developing novel pesticides (nEUROSTRESSPEP) (Dow,Davies), European
         Commission - £3.5M.
    •    Functional analysis of insect neuropeptide GPCRs (Dow, Davies), BBSRC - £3.4M.
    •    Combining chemical priming and quantitative genetics to increase salt tolerance of
         soybean (Amtmann), BBSRC - £1.0M.
 Other
    •    Somatic instability in Huntington disease: a driver of pathology, modifier of disease
         severity and therapeutic target (Monckton), CHDI Foundation - £1.5M.
 In addition, we have secured substantial funding in partnership with industry (£4.8M). We hold a
 BBSRC Industrial Partnership Award with AstraZeneca, an MRC IPA with Eli Lilly and an
 Innovate UK KTP with Cell Guidance Systems. Our EPSRC-CDT has attracted >£700k of
 stakeholder funding (>£2M of in-kind funding). Staff also have held CASE studentships with
 Collagen Solutions, Syngenta, BiogelX, Eli Lilly, Ingenza, Xanthella, Glycomar, UCB, Zoetisto,


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Procter and Gamble, Marine Biotech, Manchester Biogel and Astra Zeneca. Since 2014 we
 have also obtained fellowships from both internal (four LKAS) and external sources (Wellcome
 Trust SRF (Sanz), UKRI future leaders fellowship (Dobson) and Royal Society University
 Fellowship (Karnik)).

 Strategy for generating research income.
 Our income generation strategy is underpinned by the same principles as our research and
 staffing strategies: to invest in areas of strength whilst supporting staff to achieve their
 research ambitions.
 Investing in areas of strength: major investments in staffing (section 2) and infrastructure
 (section 1 and below) have driven growth in key areas of research excellence. Over the
 reporting period our PIs collaborated to generate a portfolio of research awards worth over
 £83M. Our funding is predominantly UKRI with over 50% from BBSRC (£22.5M); MRC (£13M);
 EPSRC (£9M) and Innovate UK (£1.3M) with other significant awards from Wellcome Trust
 (£9M), ERC (£1.6M), and industry partners (£4.8M). Around 30% of these awards involve
 collaboration with other disciplines, particularly Chemistry and Engineering and have been
 catalysed by our targeted investment in the multidisciplinary research themes outlined in
 section 1.
    •   An investment of £500k in laboratory infrastructure and new professorial, lectureship
        and fellowship positions (2) to attract a Professor of Molecular Pharmacology (Tobin)
        leading to a £4.2M Wellcome Trust collaborative award as well as MRC grants of £2.1,
        £1.9, and £1.6M and BBSRC grants totalling £3.3M.
    •   Match funding and infrastructure development (£760K) to secure a £4.4M MRC grant
        to establish the national imaging facility, SCMI. The funding was used to purchase 200
        and 300KeV cryoEM instruments. This investment enabled the recruitment of a
        Professor (da Fonseca) and Reader (Spagnolo) in structural analysis by cryoEM.
    •   Infrastructure investment in protein characterisation facilities (£150k) as well as
        upgrades to our NMR (£100k) and X-ray crystallography detection and crystal imaging
        facilities (£210k). In addition, we recruited a Professor in X-ray crystallography
        (Walden). This led to a £1.4M Wellcome Trust Investigator award and a £1.6M ERC
        Consolidator award.
    •   Facilitating collaborative grants through organised sandpits and workshops which have
        led to awards with chemists, engineers, physicists, and mathematicians generating
        £23.5M since 2014.
 Excellent facilities and infrastructure:
 Our current estate includes the Bower, Joseph Black, and Davidson Buildings. The Bower
 building was devastated by a fire in 2001 and was completely refurbished to a high standard at a
 cost of £10.8M finally reopening in 2004. The Davidson Building has seen significant phases of
 refurbishment, the most recent of which created state of the art laboratories for the recruitment
 of Tobin (£0.5M, 2017) and upgrades to the air handling system (£0.45M, 2019). In addition, we
 have an ongoing programme of laboratory and office refurbishment, managed by our University
 Estates and Buildings team. All PI offices are now located within or next to laboratories enabling
 our staff to retain close links with their research groups. Communal equipment such as
 centrifuges and microscopes are clustered near laboratories allowing easy and open access to
 all researchers. Members of our technical support team provide local management of the
 laboratory spaces ensuring all aspects of safety are covered.
 The University provides funds for equipment and infrastructure improvements linked either to
 recruitment or to supporting our researchers. We have been very successful in securing these
 funds. In addition to the major refurbishments detailed above, we have invested over £10M in
 minor laboratory upgrades, new plant growth facilities including new LED lighting and growth
 chambers (£425k), upgrades to our 600 mHz NMR (£100k), equipment for our structural
 biology/biophysical characterisation facility (£150k), and new light microscope systems (£150k).

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To best manage our core technologies, we group our resources into facilities and provide
 dedicated technical support to ensure they are both maintained and developed. The main core
 facilities are:
    •   Glasgow Polyomics Facility. Established with £2.2M from Wellcome Trust ISSF, the
        facility embeds omics technologies within UofG and provides cutting-edge support for
        next generation sequencing, metabolomics, proteomics, and transcriptomics. An ECR
        Catalyst funding scheme is available to support the development of omics projects.
    •   Structural biology/biophysical characterisation. This facility provides support for all
        aspects of structural biology as well as analytical ultracentrifugation, dynamic light
        scattering, ITC, CD, FT-IR, fluorescent and UV spectroscopy, and microscale
        thermophoresis.
    •   Light microscopy facility. The facility provides access to various confocal and epi-
        fluorescent microscopes including a Leica FRET-FLIM system. We also have a range of
        fluorescent plate readers which are managed through this facility. In addition, we have
        access to other imaging facilities available within UoG such as super-resolution
        microscopy and electron microscopy run through the Glasgow Imaging Facility.
    •   SCMI houses the latest Jeol 200 keV and 300 keV instruments for high resolution single
        particle analysis.

 Supporting staff to succeed:
 A dedicated research support team (2FTE) is embedded within the Institute to provide hands-
 on support for grant applications, including overseeing peer review processes for applications
 and organising mock interviews (e.g. fellowships) and to provide project management for
 awards. All grants are read by senior members of staff, often from outside the immediate
 research area, to provide feedback on grantsmanship and readability. This advice is also
 provided when applicants are responding to reviewers’ comments. This process of review is
 also provided for respective external and internal fellowship applicants to maximise their
 chances of success. In cases where applications are unsuccessful, we provide de-briefing
 sessions with senior colleagues to support staff to maintain motivation and to maximise the
 value of the feedback provided to improve the chance of success next time. We provide
 additional support for our ECR community through regular Grant Writing Workshops,
 facilitated by senior staff (section 2).
 Business development support and seed funding is available via the Translational Research
 Initiative (led by Tobin, section 1). Our success in securing translational funding of over £4.5M
 from MRC (Confidence in Concept (CiC), Proximity to Discovery (P2D)), BBSRC (IAA), and
 Wellcome Trust (Translational Partnership) has fuelled our impact agenda and will form the
 basis of impact generation for years to come. Our Unit has benefitted particularly from this
 initiative with funding to provide workshops with industry, market assessments and relevant
 mentoring leading the generation of a range of licensing and spin out opportunities.
 Successes where our research will lead to defined impact are detailed in section 1 but are
 highlighted by the spin-out of Caldan Therapeutics, and most recently Keltic Pharma and
 Solasta Bioscience. The latter spin-out is led by Davies and Dow who are developing green
 pesticides. The team have secured three BBSRC CASE awards, a BBSRC IPA and contract
 research (value £1.5M). Further, Davies secured a BBSRC FLIP award (£50k) to work closely
 with BASF 2014-2016, BBSRC IAA funding for market research (£5k) and technical
 development (£30k), and BBSRC ‘Excellence with Impact’ funding for patent freedom-to-operate
 searches (£6k). This experience has helped them develop insecticide targets. Through a large
 EU project (€7M) they focussed on technology development and stakeholder interactions for
 peptide-based insecticides. They secured Scottish Enterprise High Growth Spinout Funding
 (£150k) and Davies has been awarded a BBSRC/Royal Society of Edinburgh Enterprise
 Fellowship (2019-2021, £54k) and Scottish Enterprise High-Growth Spinout funding (£168k).
 They have identified a CEO and have spun out Solasta Bioscience. Davies recently won
 Glasgow’s New Entrepreneur of the Year (2020).



                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We have very recently (2020) added to our pipeline of spin-out companies by establishing Keltic
 Pharma Therapeutics, founded by Tobin, Milligan, and Jamieson (UoA8) with substantial start-
 up funding from the EU (€26M). This company will pursue drug discovery in the areas of
 malaria, asthma and neuropsychiatric disease as well as establish a novel drug discovery
 platform called PEP-SMOL. The company builds on the expertise of the Tobin group in malaria,
 the Tobin-Milligan groups in GPCR pharmacology and the Jamieson group in cyclic-peptide
 chemistry. The company presents translational opportunities for exciting clinical targets being
 pursued by the founders and is likely to build on its current portfolio of therapeutic areas.

 Future infrastructure improvement
 By far the biggest impact for our infrastructure in the next few years will be the opening of the
 ARC (Advanced Research Centre), a £113M “Research Hub” focussed on interdisciplinary
 research (scheduled for 2022). With leadership from Tobin, this development will build upon our
 already extensive interdisciplinary approaches and provide high quality interactive research
 space for existing groups as well as new researchers. In addition to providing new space for
 recruitment and to house excellent communal facilities, the building has interaction spaces that
 will create a research culture to foster interdisciplinary research and encourage large, multi-
 applicant grant applications. These spaces will also be available for public lectures and exhibits,
 improving our facilities for public engagement. Several of the UoA5 staff will relocate to the ARC
 which will also free-up high quality research laboratories in existing buildings. This will allow for
 future expansion and provide the opportunity for a consolidation of our core facilities such as our
 protein characterisation facility and imaging.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 The Unit is making a leading contribution to the research base both nationally and internationally
 as evidenced by engagement with grant awarding bodies, our contributions to learned societies
 and our extensive collaborations.

 External collaborations:
 Our UK collaborations include an EPSRC programme grant with University of Nottingham and
 Imperial College, a SBCF programme grant with the Universities of Nottingham and Strathclyde.
 Internationally, we are partner and coordinators on H2020 awards with 24 partner universities
 and we also hold a Wellcome Trust Collaborative Award with Monash University, Australia.
 Since 2014, 60% of our publications have included an international partner.
 Our industrial collaborations have generated £4.8M of collaborative income since 2014 and
 range from global multinationals (Proctor & Gamble, New England Biolabs, BASF, Airbus Group,
 Agilent, Johnson and Johnson) and big pharma (Sosei-Heptares, Eli Lilley, Novo Nordisk, Tianjin
 Modern Traditional Chinese Medicine, Vertex Pharmaceuticals) to SMEs (AMO-Pharma,
 Grünenthal, Cara Therapeutics, Flagship Pioneering, In Sphero, Histocell Atelerix, BNN
 Technologies, BiogelX, ReNeuron, Reprocell, Terumo Aortic, QuantumDX, Sphere Fluidics,
 Metrion Biosciences, Spheritech, Ingenza, Xanthella, Collagen Solutions and Cell Guidance
 Systems). Since, 2014 7% of our publications have included industry.
 To enhance our collaborations with industry, we have established a strategic relationship with
 IBiolC (Industrial Biotechnology Innovation Centre) in Glasgow. IBiolC comprises 150 member
 companies (Amtmann sits on the IBIolC advisory board). Formed in 2014, its mission is to grow
 a £900M biotech industry in Scotland by 2025. An illustration of how we embed an industrial
 outlook in training our future scientists, is our EPSRC CDT. On this programme each student
 has an industrial supervisor and will undertake industrial placements during their PhD.
 Our developing impact pipeline involves considerable industrial collaboration, and we are
 supporting these opportunities through to company formation where appropriate. Examples
 include:
     • Milligan (UoA5 impact case study) has worked with Pharma for many years forming a
        strategic partnership with AstraZeneca, even licensing IP to Cara Therapeutics (realised

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        by UoG in 2018 for US$4M). His interest in GPCR signalling in diabetes and his
        understanding of Pharma from his many interactions led him to spin-out Caldan
        Therapeutics in 2015, taking in £4.5M of venture capital from Epidarex to identify drug
        targets for type II diabetes. Subsequently Caldan has raised further £3.5M in venture
        capital, largely from LifeArc Seeds.
    •   Davies and Dow have worked closely with BASF through BBSRC FLIP and IPA funding
        to develop novel insecticides. Davies in now developing her entrepreneurial skills
        through a Royal Society of Edinburgh Enterprise Fellowship. Together they have
        secured Scottish Enterprise High-Growth Spin Out funding (£168k) for Solasta
        Bioscience that requires projection of £5M turnover within 5 years of start-up.
    •   Monckton, through his work with CHDI, Muscular Dystrophy UK, the NHS and Vertex
        Pharmaceuticals, has become the go-to person in the field of sequencing and genotyping
        myotonic dystrophy and Huntington disease patients. With his collaborators, he is
        developing new, accurate diagnostics and novel therapies.
    •   Dalby, with Salmeron-Sanchez and SBCF as well as the NHS and Histocell have
        delivered a first veterinary trial of a bone scaffolding technology, which has now benefited
        10 dogs and a cat in Glasgow and Liverpool. In addition, the team are delivering a
        cellular therapy to humans for bone regeneration. They are currently working with,
        plastic surgeon Prof Andy Hart, a regulatory consultant and the Medicines and
        Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) to obtain clinical trials approval. At
        time of trial, they will seek funding to spin out the cellular therapy.
    •   Riehle with work emerging from NC3Rs Crackit funding with Grünenthal and Metrion to
        establish cultures of human dorsal root ganglions to enable better drug screening.
        Further, Riehle is undertaking a Cochrane review of best surgical practice in nerve
        conduit technology that could inform surgical practice in the NHS.
 Contribution to the research base, economy and society
 The most important contribution that UoA5 staff provide to the research base is through
 commitments to grant funding panels and reviews. Cogdell is Chair of the Royal Society
 research grant panel and sits on the Royal Society Newton Bhabha Fellowship Board. He was
 also on the BBSRC Council and is a member of the scientific advisory board of the Centre of
 International Excellence “Alexander von Humboldt” at University of Bayreuth. Bulleid sits on
 Wellcome Trust Expert Review panel for Cell and Developmental Biology as well as the Royal
 Society of Edinburgh Nominations panel A4. Walden chairs both the Wellcome Trust Expert
 Review panel for Molecular Basis of Cell Function and the Biochemical Society grants
 committee. Dow is the deputy Chair of the REF subpanel A5 and a member of the BBSRC-
 DTP3 interview panel. Milligan is also a member of the REF subpanel A5 and sits on the MRC
 Molecular and Cellular Medicine group. Blatt is a core member of the BBSRC committee B and
 is the Chair of the Trustees for the Begonia Trust. Monckton is on the scientific advisory board
 and grant review panel for the Myotonic Dystrophy Foundation (USA). Stark is in the UKRI FLF
 panel and sits on the Carnegie Trust panel for Research Incentive grants. Davies is a member
 of BBSRC committee E and is Chair of the FWO Belgium Bio2 grants and Fellowships
 committee as well as sitting on the research council of Norway grants panel. Tokatlidis is a
 member of the UKRI FLF panel and sits on the German Research Organisation (DFG)- research
 networks panel. Insall was a member of the following panels: MRC, Molecular and Cellular
 Medicine Board, Discovery Awards and “Technology Touching Life”. He is also on the UKRI
 FLF panel, UKRI Physics of Life external advisory and the Biochemical Society awards
 committees. Tobin was on the MRC Molecular Cellular Medicine Board and carries out site
 reviews for MRC centres and is a member of the Scottish Parliament Cross-Party Committee for
 Life Sciences. Dalby sits on the Royal Society of Edinburgh Nominations panel A1.

 Participation in peer-review
 All of us are engaged in peer-review for journals and act as external examiners, at
 undergraduate, masters and PhD cohort level. We have Editorial roles for journals in our fields.
 Amtmann is Editor-in-Chief of Plant Cell & Environment, Blatt is Editor-in-Chief of Plant
 Physiology and Cogdell is Editor-in-Chief of Journal of the Royal Society Interface. We serve

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 as associate or monitoring editors: Blatt for Frontiers in Plant Sciences, Dow for Journal of
 Experimental Biology, Fly and Briefings in Functional Genomics, Jenkins for Photochemical and
 Photobiological Sciences, Kaiserli for Plant Physiology, Dalby for Materials Science and
 Engineering C and Journal of Tissue Engineering, Riehle for Micro- and Nano Letters, Christie
 for New Phytologist and Plant Physiology, and Jones for Journal of Experimental Botany.
 Conference organisation
 Our unit is involved in chairing and organising international meetings (e.g. Gordon Research
 Conferences) with several of these attracting internationally renowned researchers to UofG.
 These recently include: the International Workshop on Plant Membrane Biology (Blatt, Karnik);
 29th Conference of European Comparative Endocrinologists (Dow, Davies); Plant Cell
 Environment 40th Anniversary Symposium (Amtmann); EMBO meeting on Protein modules in
 Signalling Networks (2018) and Biochemical Society Hot Topics “PINK1-Parkin Signalling”
 (2014) (Walden); principal organiser of the Collaborative Computation Project for NMR (CCPN)
 annual conference in 2017 (Smith); Gordon Research Conference on Photosensory Receptors
 and Signal Transduction vice chair 2014 and Chair in 2016 (Christie); EMBO-FEBS Lecture
 Course on Mitochondria in Health, Death and Disease Chair (2015) organising committee (2017)
 and EMBO-LIFE conference (2020) organising committee (Tokatlidis).
 Fellowships and awards
 Of the 36 PIs submitted to UoA5, six currently hold prestigious personal Research Fellowships.
 During the assessment period we were awarded a Wellcome Trust Senior Research Fellowship,
 an UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship, a Royal Society University Research Fellowship, a Royal
 Society of Edinburgh Enterprise Fellowship and three Royal Society/Wolfson Merit awards. We
 have used our internal Fellowship programme strategically to attract six Lord Kelvin Adam Smith
 Fellows four of whom now have permanent positions. Over the assessment period we have also
 been recognised by: Biochemical Society Industrial-Academic Collaboration Award (Dalby),
 Colworth Medal (Walden), Goodwin Prize (Cogdell), Herald Research Project of the Year
 (Dalby), JR Vane Medal for Pharmacology (Milligan), Muscular Dystrophy UK Scientist of the
 Year and Huntington’s Disease Society of America Researcher of the Year (Monckton), and
 Glasgow’s New Entrepreneur of the Year (2020) (Davies). Over the assessment period PIs
 have been elected: Academy of Medical Sciences FMedSci (Milligan), Royal Society of
 Edinburgh FRSE (Christie, Dalby, Davies, Insall and Tokatlidis) (34% of submitted staff are
 now FRSE), Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry (Spagnolo) and EMBO member
 (Tokatlidis).
 Influencing policy
 Members of UoA5 are involved in helping make policy for various research organisations: Smith
 is secretary of the executive committee of the CCPNMR (UKRI Collaborative Computation
 Project for NMR) and is a member of the executive committee of the Scottish High Field NMR
 Centre; Blatt advises the Scottish Parliament Information Centre (SPICe) regarding science
 communication; Cogdell chairs the scientific advisory board of the Canadian Institute for
 Advanced Research's program on Bioinspired Solar Energy. He is also a member of Queens
 University Belfast's international scientific advisory board of their Institute for Global Food
 Security and is a member of the US department of Energy's Energy Frontier Research Centre on
 Photosynthetic Antennas. Further, he sat on the scientific advisory board of the Roslin Institute
 from 2016-2018.
 We have grown strong links with the NHS. Dalby formed the Glasgow orthopaedic research
 initiative (GLORI) in 2009 with surgeon Prof Meek. Since 2014, the initiative has grown and
 annual meetings now attract sponsorship, bring in top speakers to inspire young orthopaedic
 researchers and have encouraged more trainee surgeons into PhD study. Ten years ago, UofG
 was unknown for orthopaedic research, now we are producing research-trained fellows each
 year and hosting annual meetings with broader appeal and attendance. Further, plastic surgeon
 Prof Hart has worked with Riehle to develop research positions in the NHS where trainees can
 work 50% in clinic and 50% on PhDs (first submissions due 2021). Monckton is a long-standing
 member of the Scottish Muscle Network and Myotonic Dystrophy Managed Clinical Network,

                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 leading a national research project and providing ad hoc diagnostic capabilities in complex
 cases. Monckton also co-supervised a joint Chief Scientist’s Office/MDUK clinical PhD fellow
 who has subsequently attained a consultant position in Clinical Genetics at the Queen Elizabeth
 University Hospital.

 Public engagement
 We have an extensive public outreach programme which involves both staging events or
 exhibitions and interaction with the media. The events/exhibits we have organised include
 participation in the Royal Society Summer Exhibition in 2016 and 2018, exhibits at the Glasgow
 Science Centre, exhibits at Science Sundays (UofG), Plant Sciences Explorathon and Botanical
 Garden’s Centenary Celebrations. Nimmo and Dalby have been involved in two Leverhulme
 Trust artist in residence projects on circadian clocks and the osteogenic properties of mother of
 pearl. The work of both artists was displayed within university museums with free entry to the
 public. We are also working towards a public outreach impact case with Karnik’s Stomatoy
 (described in section 1). Monckton organised and hosted a Muscular Dystrophy UK Scottish
 Patient Research Day and regularly hosts patients and families in laboratory visits.
 Our interactions with the media help us disseminate new, potentially impactful, science to the
 public. Some examples are below:
 • Dalby for his work with Salmeron-Sanchez and SBCF on saving the leg of Eva the dog. The
    basis of this work was published in Science Advances 2016 and the veterinary case was
    published in Advanced Science in 2018. The work was featured both immediately after
    successful surgical follow up in the news, and then became the focus of an extended BBC
    news piece by Pallab Ghosh. The extended story featured in the main BBC news, every
    hour on the BBC news channel featuring interviews with Dalby, Salmeron-Sanchez, Eva’s
    owners and the veterinary surgeon. It was also covered by many papers and websites.
 • Dalby for his work on nanovibrational stimulation of stem cells published in Nature
    Biomedical Engineering in 2017. As well as attracting press attention, including BBC
    Scotland, STV and many newspapers and websites, the work was a feature in the Channel 4
    health series ‘Live Well for Longer’.
 • Cogdell appeared on BBC Radio Scotland and German radio concerning Artificial
    photosynthesis. He also gave talks on climate change and the role of artificial
    photosynthesis to Glasgow Probus, Helensburgh and Milngavie branches of the University of
    the 3rd age.
 • Blatt and Christie have developed an approach to help plants grow with less water usage.
    This was published in Science in 2019 and attracted broad newspaper and news website
    attention with Blatt being interviewed for e.g. the BBC Today programme and the Naked
    Scientist.
 • Milligan and Tobin who, in a paper in Nature Chemical Biology 2019, showed that we can
    mimic positive effects of gut bacteria on sugar levels using drug targets. They were
    interviewed for radio and newspapers.
 • Berry was interviewed by the Scottish Herald following her 2016 ACS Nano paper on stem
    cell niches in a dish and Riehle’s work with engineers at UofG and Herriot-Watt was
    featured in many newspapers after publication in Lab on a Chip 2014, with parallels to Dr
    Who’s sonic screwdriver.
 In addition to these mainstream media outreach activities, we have also been involved in
 production of a UofG MOOC “Research Impact: Making a difference”. This online course is
 designed to overview and educate on academic impact with examples from UoA5 staff such as
 Milligan and Dalby. The course is proving popular and more importantly useful. The course
 has run 5 times since 2018 with over 3,500 learners taking part. Learners come from across the
 globe with around 30% from low to middle income countries.
 In summary, we work around the world and with academics, clinicians, and industry. We are
 balancing world-leading basic science with exciting innovation and translation – and we are
 telling our peers and the public about this through outreach and the media.



                                                                                           Page 17
