Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Westminster

 Unit of Assessment: 4 Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit Context and Structure

 Our UoA4 submission is based on the activity of researchers in Psychology, within the College
 of Liberal Arts and Sciences (CLAS). Psychology engages in a broad range of world-leading
 theoretical and applied research, including in cognitive neuroscience, health, biopsychology,
 psychophysiology and forensic psychology.

 Research in the unit is structured around four vibrant Research Groups:

    i)      Cognitive Clinical Neuroscience Research Group: examines perceptual and cognitive
            processes across the life-span, in healthy and clinical populations employing a range
            of experimental techniques (EEG; fMRI; TMS; neuropsychological testing). Led by
            Loveday, with Evans as Deputy. Comprises 11 Psychology staff, 1 Research Fellow,
            4 Doctoral Researchers.
    ii)     Psychophysiology and Stress Research Group: examines the relationship between
            psychosocial stress, well-being/health and the physiological pathways that mediate
            such associations. Led by Smyth, with Thorn as Deputy. Comprises 5 Psychology
            staff, 2 Emeritus Professors, 1 Research Fellow, 3 Doctoral Researchers.
    iii)    Criminal, Investigative and Forensic Research Group (CIFR): investigates
            psychological processes in forensic and investigative settings, and understanding the
            nature, causes and impact of crime. Led by Dando, with Mackenzie (submitted
            UoA3) as Deputy. Comprises 8 Psychology staff, 2 Criminology staff (submitted
            UoA20), 4 Doctoral Researchers.
    iv)     Supporting Patients with Long-term Health Conditions: inter-disciplinary and inter-
            professional research towards improving wellbeing of those with ‘chronic’ health
            issues. Led by Ridge (submitted UoA3) with Cheshire as Deputy. Comprises 5
            Psychology staff, 1 Life Sciences staff,1 Research Fellow, 3 Doctoral Researchers.

 Loveday is Psychology Research Lead with responsibility for the overall research environment,
 working alongside the UoA Lead (Dando), other senior research mentors (Buchanan, Golding)
 and the College Research Director (Ridge).

 Indicative of the University’s strong support for research within the subject area is the fact that,
 since 2014, in what is a relatively small unit, 6 new research-active staff have been employed.
 This has included both established researchers to provide further research leadership – Dando
 (2016), Evans (2017) and Moutsiana (2017) – and early career researchers – Bunday (2018),
 Hazell (2019), Cheshire (2015) and Parkin (2018) – who are crucial to our development and
 sustainability.

 Research Ethics review is carried out in line with BPS requirements, with lower risk student and
 staff research considered by a Psychology Research Ethics Working Group (chaired by Dando),
 reporting to a College Research Ethics Committee which considers all research that has ethical
 implications (Dando and Evans represent Psychology). For further details of the University’s
 commitments to research ethics and integrity, see REF5a.

 Three dedicated administrators monitor research outputs to ensure accessibility and that open
 access policy is met. Funds are made available at University level to support gold OA
 publications. Working towards making data open where possible, and recognising the
 importance of reproducibility, the University is a member of the UK Reproducibility Network, for
 which Evans is the institutional contact. Buchanan chairs the University’s Research Data


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Management working group. Loveday is on the editorial board of the open access University of
 Westminster Press.

 1.2 Unit Research and Impact Strategy

 Following REF2014, we updated and refocussed our strategy in response to feedback and
 newer challenges to research in the discipline, with the following strategic aims:

    1. To increase the number of staff operating at the level of international research
       excellence;
    2. To increase our research income from UKRI and diversify funding streams;
    3. To further develop our successful and active community of doctoral students;
    4. To identify impact opportunities and maximize support for existing impact activities.

 We have achieved each of these, as follows.

 1. Increasing number of staff operating at the level of international research excellence

 Regular time to pursue research is available to all staff (full-time, fractional, fixed-term) through
 implementation of the University’s transparent workload allocation model (WAM). Hours
 specifically for research and scholarly activities, amounting to between a quarter and a third of
 overall workload, are incorporated into staff timetables at a level directly tied to output
 achievements and potential, and are decided following annual individual personal and
 professional development meetings with all staff.

 Staff are further assisted to meet their goals through formal mentoring systems within the unit.
 Examples include individually-designed mentoring for Taylor, an ECR who sought to develop
 skills to undertake research, publish the resulting findings and apply for external funding, and
 Smyth to develop research leadership skills. Smyth was mentored by Clow (retired) to take on
 the coordinator role for the Psychophysiology and Stress Research Group role. As a direct
 consequence of this experience, she was appointed to lead the University-wide Health
 Innovation and Wellbeing Research Community. Smyth was subsequently promoted to Reader
 (2020), and, in her role as Community Lead, regularly collaborates with colleagues in the Health
 Innovation Ecosystem, an interdisciplinary research hub that sits across multiple academic
 structures of the University.

 Research groups are the primary vehicle for exchange of ideas within the unit. Each has
 considerable autonomy in deciding their structure and activities, meeting regularly both formally
 and informally, submitting funding applications, developing training and mentoring relationships
 within and across research groups. A one-day research conference/forum takes place annually,
 where staff present their research, alongside postgraduate students, providing opportunities for
 sharing, networking, and seeking/providing advice. Bi-weekly ‘research carousel’ events provide
 a combination of research seminars and themed workshops for staff and students.

 Off-site residential writing retreats at The Abbey, Sutton Courtenay are offered twice yearly with
 structured writing opportunities, with a staff wellbeing focus. On-campus writing retreats and
 protected writing days are offered regularly in between. College and university-wide
 interdisciplinary grant-writing workshops (one external, one internal) have been provided
 annually over the past 3 years, alongside impact workshops with external and internal speakers
 in each of the last 2 years.

 Senior researchers in Psychology are also encouraged to collaborate with less active/more
 junior colleagues. This initiative has increased the number of research-active staff, outputs and
 research income and raised the quality and quantity of research outputs and funding
 applications. The number of staff submitted to REF has increased by 58% since REF2014, from
 12.5 FTE to 19.8 FTE.


                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. Increasing our research income from UKRI and sourcing additional funding streams

 We have more than quadrupled our absolute income compared to REF2014. Research funding
 returned to HESA since 2013-14 is £2.765 million, as compared to the £0.7 million that was
 returned in REF2014, including major grants from the Centre for Research and Evidence on
 Security Threats, ESRC, European Research Council, the US High Value Detainee Research
 Group, UK Ministry of Defence and Roche. This amounts to an increase of more than double in
 average annual income from £155,196 per year in REF2014 to £395,063 in REF2021. See 3.1
 below.

 This increase in income was achieved through strategic investments, including: recruiting
 research-engaged staff; promoting ‘intelligent’ mentoring to match ECRs with experienced
 researchers; providing new staff with teaching relief in their first year to allow them to establish
 their research; ensuring all staff have a regular opportunity to talk to the Psychology research
 lead about their work; providing internal funding for excellent research proposals; ensuring
 research conversations are always part of personal and professional development reviews; and
 allocating research hours via annual workload allocation discussions regarding research activity.

 In this way, it was possible to identify and support ambition, while rewarding research
 excellence. We were able to connect researchers and help stimulate and coordinate research
 ideas. Specific WAM hours were allocated for the development of new research projects and
 funding bids (see Strategy 1 above). Advisors have worked in partnership with colleagues from
 UoA4 and other disciplines to identify opportunities, target relevant funding and then support
 colleagues to lead or contribute to funding bids. Examples include: Clow supporting Smyth to
 secure funding from Sir Halley Stuart Trust (£60K) and the British Academy (£10,000), and
 Dando supporting Taylor to secure a BA Leverhulme Small Research Grant (£9900). Since
 2019, this support and guidance has been supplemented by interdisciplinary ‘mentoring circles’,
 which include up to 8 mentees and are led by one of two experienced senior academics within
 the College.

 Early career researchers and newly appointed staff can apply for ‘Start Up’ funding of up to
 £5,000: Parkin, Ballieux, Doering, Smith and Smyth have all received funding of between
 £3000 and £4000 since 2014. Targeted support has also been provided to individuals or teams
 identified as having strong funding potential by offering structured internal grant and paper-
 writing days (see Section 2 below) and by utilising Research Fellow expertise in research
 design, implementation and grant writing when preparing and submitting funding bids. Internal
 peer review panels, comprising senior/experienced academics and professional services staff,
 have been set up to provide staged support for all funding applications, from idea stage through
 to submission. Where appropriate, we have utilised internal and external grant-writing experts to
 provide feedback and advice on funding applications; for example, through a mock interview
 panel that led to a Fulbright Scholar Programme grant (Eardley). We work closely with our
 designated Research Development Partner based within the University Research and
 Knowledge Exchange Office (RKEO), who regularly circulates funding opportunities and
 supports staff with targeted internal funding, encouraging flexibility in matching expertise to
 available opportunities and funding council priorities.

 In 2018 Psychology played a major role in the founding of one of four cross-university research
 communities, the Health Innovation and Wellbeing Research Community (HIWRC), which was
 launched to establish more focused and interdisciplinary research across the institution, and to
 support researcher development and large-scale external grant bids. Led by Smyth, the
 interdisciplinary community has received strategic funding from the University for knowledge
 exchange and to promote Westminster research expertise, passion and energy. To date, four
 UoA4 researchers/research teams have been funded by HIWRC to undertake pilot research to
 strengthen larger external funding submissions, totalling £42,400. HIWRC has also hosted four
 researcher development events in 2019-20, each attended by between 40 and 80 researchers:
 ‘Developing cross-disciplinary research projects’, ‘Researching in COVID: practical and ethical


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 issues’, ‘Publishing interdisciplinary health and wellbeing research’, and ‘Health and the arts:
 interdisciplinary approaches’.

 3. Hosting a successful and active community of doctoral students

 We currently have 27 PhD students enrolled in Psychology. Since REF2014 there have been 14
 PhD completions, more than doubling our return to REF2014. This was achieved by regular
 submission of strong cross-disciplinary bids for internal studentship funding and scholarships
 funded by the Quintin Hogg Trust (a charity set up in 1903 to support education at what is now
 the University of Westminster), proactively supporting individuals to include PhD opportunities
 when applying for external research funding and encouraging staff to apply for national PhD
 funding opportunities. This also includes a number of successful interdisciplinary and cross-
 university applications, including with colleagues in Computer Science, Criminology, Humanities,
 Life Sciences and Politics. See section 2.2 below.

 4. Identifying impact opportunities and maximizing support for existing impact activities

 We have been proactive in raising the profile of impact for researchers in Psychology through
 ongoing impact workshops and one-to-one mentoring (see strategy 1 above). A series of
 ‘achieving impact’ seminars and workshops have been delivered during the assessment period,
 which have included specific guidance on planning for impact, and on evidencing and
 documenting impact. All research-active staff provide annual, audited impact statements.
 Targeted financial support for existing and promising impact cases has been provided via the
 Impact Support Fund, sabbaticals (also fundamental for grant development and high impact
 outputs), and School funds to further develop research activity with maximum impact potential.
 These include work by Cartwright on yoga and health, Hazell on student mental health,
 Loveday on connecting the public with the lived experience of pathological memory loss, and
 Dando on Applied Controlled Cognitive Engagement for human intelligence gathering and
 veracity testing.

 Our selected impact case studies evidence how theory, empirical knowledge and real-world
 observations have improved care and treatment of patients with severe memory loss (Loveday)
 and enhanced national and international security (Dando). Research associated with these
 impact case studies, as well as much additional impactful and public-facing research – including
 that of Buchanan, Cartwright, Hazzell, Eardley, Smyth - feeds directly into formal teaching at
 all levels, allowing students to engage with contemporary research and appreciate how science
 informs practice and the public at large. For example, ‘Psychological Research at Westminster’,
 an UG module where staff members present their research each week, and ‘Social and Applied
 Psychology’, a MSc module introducing staff research applied to real-world challenges.

 To further support impact generation within the unit, we have implemented a dynamic portfolio of
 external engagement activities, including public lectures, public-facing events (e.g., at the Truth
 Festival, House of Lords, Sunday Times Workshop, UK All Party Parliamentary Working Group,
 British Science Festival, Edinburgh Book Festival, US Institute of PEACE, Washington DC),
 engaging with media by working closely with the University Press Office, and via regular social
 media interactions on both the Psychology and University Twitter account, as a ‘Psychology
 Today’ Blogger and by contributing to The Conversation.

 Potential impact opportunities beyond the current REF period are continuously monitored within
 the unit. The University’s Research Communities funding initiative outlined in REF5a has been
 fundamental in supporting this strategy by directing funds to cross-disciplinary projects with
 potential for impact beyond REF2021. Funded projects based within UoA4 include: Eardley:
 Place Identity, belonging, memory and local communities; Smyth: Exercise in natural
 environments: a gateway to healthier communities; Doering: Value development in childhood
 and adolescence; Dando: County lines exploitation of children: Being a victim and an offender.



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The unit has been able to draw upon further funding from the Quintin Hogg Trust and Health
 Innovation and Wellbeing Research Community to focus specifically on impact-related activities.
 Examples include developing and implementing psychologically-informed training for the security
 industry, purchasing equipment to support knowledge exchange with disadvantaged groups, and
 media training to enhance public understanding of psychological science and its impact. Such
 funding has also allowed us to employ RAs who work closely with a dedicated impact officer to
 capture, monitor and track impact, as well as to facilitate a number of public and networking
 events. We actively recognise and value all research achievements within Psychology, ensuring
 that these are widely communicated both internally and externally. For example, a quarterly
 Research Digest is circulated university-wide that highlights research activities in Psychology,
 including funding applications, peer-reviewed publications, media appearances, conferences,
 and so on. The University Communications Team is also informed of significant research
 achievements and funding, as appropriate.

 1.3 Future Research Strategy

 Our two overarching objectives for 2021-2026 are: i) to further develop research activity and
 improve impact in our areas of excellence, and ii) to double research income on the basis of our
 existing track record of success post-REF2014. In meeting these objectives, UoA4 has the
 following strategic aims, which are proactive in nature, while recognizing a need for flexibility to
 allow staff to react to emerging issues, as exemplified by the COVID-19 pandemic:

 To create a positive place and culture for research so everyone is supported and
 encouraged to realise their ambition. We will continue to ‘grow our own’ researchers through
 targeted support of ECRs via our mentorship scheme. We have an excellent track record in this
 regard with Smyth, Mackenzie, Law and Taylor all having completed their PhDs at
 Westminster prior to being appointed to permanent positions in the unit. We will continue with
 our successful bid-writing and writing retreats. Particular attention will be paid to equality and
 diversity in researcher development (see 2.3), drawing on the newly developed University
 Researcher Development Programme (see REF5a), which offers a series of targeted training
 events, including ‘Impact and Engagement’, ‘Funding for Research and Knowledge Exchange’,
 ‘Publishing, data, ethics and integrity’ and ‘Taking charge of your career’.

 Focus on areas of research excellence and knowledge exchange, to make a difference.
 Our ambition is to further develop our existing research groups by emphasizing the unique areas
 of research that have emerged since REF2014, and to actively encourage groups to be more
 interdisciplinary. For example:

    i)      Building on the novel work of Carpenter, Mackenzie (submitted UoA3) and Nahouli
            (doctoral researcher), we aim to develop a national cross-disciplinary network
            (including sociologists, criminologist, clinicians and organisations impacted by
            suicide, such as National Probation, emergency services and Network Rail) for better
            understanding suicide, with a particular emphasis on context and culture.
    ii)     To realise the Westminster vision of ‘enhancing and enriching life-long health and
            wellbeing’ and advancing existing research relationships, we aim to form a cross-
            disciplinary international network linked to the Westminster International Centre for
            Social Prescribing, including the Green Gym Programme (a UK-wide programme
            enabling vulnerable groups to enhance their physical activity and social interaction in
            nature) and enhancing physical activity and/or engagement with nature in looked-
            after children (Smyth, Thorn, Hazzell).
    iii)    Following the innovative forensic and investigative expertise that has emerged from
            international funding in the unit, we aim to offer a series of bespoke accredited
            national and international professional CPD courses to encourage wider participation
            in this dynamic field of psychological enquiry with an emphasis on relationship
            building, culture and context (Dando, Moutsiana, Evans, Nahouli).
    iv)     Furthering our ground-breaking research with students who self-harm, and the
            Students Union and Students UK (Smyth, Mackenzie, Hazzell), we aim to provide

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
            high-quality, practical and accessible advice and signposting for such students
            through new systems to support such externally-focused work.
    v)      Finally, we will play a key role in the development of the University Culture, Heritage,
            Identities, Museums and Exhibitions Centre, which will draw together researchers
            from Humanities, Social Sciences, Computing and Art and Design, and extend the
            University’s existing connections with the Smithsonian Institution, Washington, DC
            (Eardley).

 Double our funded research activity, with high and consistent quality of outputs and
 increased impact on business, industry and wider society. Building on our current networks
 and partnerships, by 2024 we aim to have doubled grant income, seeking novel and bespoke
 partnership funding opportunities in addition to traditional funding avenues. We expect our plans
 to expand and specialise to significantly increase our national and international reach and impact
 outside of traditional academic contexts. We play a key role in the new University cross-
 disciplinary Research Communities and will continue to do so as research themes emerge
 across Westminster, and in response to business, society and industry needs.

 Engage in global research knowledge and exchange. In addition to the exemplars provided
 in point 2 above, an ambitious programme of Knowledge Exchange is planned over the next five
 years. We aim to develop and deliver a programme of Westminster Accredited CPD to Industry,
 Government organisations, NHS/healthcare, and private professional bodies, transitioning our
 unique areas of research and applied expertise to knowledge exchange and societal meaning.
 Using a hub and spoke model, these CPD courses will be managed centrally but developed and
 implemented at a Research Group level where the relevant areas of expertise exist and flourish.
 We also aim to invest in more outward-facing events. For example, building upon the success of
 the ‘Difference Festival’ held annually at the University’s historic Regent Street building and
 Different Conversations podcast series, we will introduce a series of mini themed lectures, a
 Westminster Psychology Blog, and Live Projects, working closely with our UG, MSc and PhD
 research students to provide a platform for our research activities and a vibrant place for our
 students and researchers to develop and create new knowledge.

 Section 2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 Our staffing/staff development strategies have worked synergistically over the census period.
 These have focused specifically on:

    i)      Supporting research-active staff to continue to progress with their research and
            associated activities;
    ii)     Encouraging existing staff who aspire to take on a significant responsibility for
            research to do so through targeted support, training and staff development;
    iii)    Prioritizing research profile as a selection criterion in the recruitment of new staff
            across all areas of teaching and research.

 All staff have annual one-to-one interviews with the Research Lead (Loveday), and are
 supported through a range of mentoring arrangements, as described above. Staff career
 development is clearly signposted via career pathways set out at University level for researchers
 at all stages, supported by a range of workshops and courses run by the Research and
 Knowledge Exchange Office (RKEO). As outlined in Section 1, the RKEO also provides
 specialist training for individuals and groups in impact and bid writing, and additional bespoke
 support is available at both College and School levels, as required.

 The Psychology Research Lead (Loveday) and Assistant Head of School, who oversees the
 Psychology unit, work together to manage the staff development budget. All research-active staff
 (including fixed-term and part-time) can access a School fund to support staff training,
 workshops, and attendance at research conferences. Annually, £500 is automatically made

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 available to all researchers upon request and following completion of a short application. An
 additional £800 is available to all staff (by application) for specific research development support.
 This has continued despite the COVID-19 pandemic, so as to support attendance at remote
 conferences/workshops, relevant training and other research costs.

 Dedicated time for independent research is available to all staff with a significant responsibility
 for research, through the direct incorporation of research hours into yearly workload (from 1504
 total hours of workload pro rata). Hours for independent research are allocated annually (pro
 rata) as follows: Professors and Readers 425 hours, Principal Lecturers, Senior Lecturers and
 Lecturers receive a minimum of 250 with the possibility of up to 350 hours, depending on their
 research plans and activities. Further hours are made available for research administration, PhD
 supervision and externally-funded research. All staff receive an additional allocation of 174 hours
 for scholarship activities.

 Our sabbatical scheme is open to all staff with three-years' service to engage in research,
 academic enterprise, or other activities that will increase their scholarly achievement, targeting
 those whose circumstances have impeded their research progression and/or who have high
 teaching and admin duties. The scheme funds one sabbatical per academic year. Key staff have
 been further supported through extended research leave and internal funding initiatives to
 facilitate new research links, including: Evans at the University of Hong Kong; Smyth at
 Northwestern University, USA; Doering at University of Muenster, Hebrew University of
 Jerusalem, Tel Aviv University, National Research University, Moscow; Cartwright at Harvard
 Medical School.

 Psychology has invested heavily in external two-day writing-retreats and one-day workshops,
 which, as staff feedback attests, have contributed significantly to staff development in the unit:
 ‘[T]he Abbey was a perfect venue for a writing retreat…It is the most positive work experience I
 have had’, ‘they have given me great energy towards my writing projects and also supported me
 in thinking long term’, ‘retreats are important, and should continue to be prioritised as an
 investment in staff development terms from both a CPD/health and well-being perspective, as
 well as a research and scholarly activity perspective’. These have been attended by 19 staff in
 the unit. Stand-alone ‘Bid Clinics’ facilitated by experts have provided group and one-to-one
 feedback on draft proposals, guided ECRs and supported ‘absolute beginners’ in preparing and
 submitting grant applications. Specific pre- and post-bid support is provided through a dedicated
 Research Development Partner and Award Officer who are centrally based in the RKEO.

 As a direct consequence of targeted recruitment, researcher support and staff development
 strategies, the number of staff with a significant responsibility for research within the Unit has
 increased by 60% since REF2014. In line with our priorities for strategic investment, all new staff
 employed since the last assessment are research-active, covering areas such as social
 psychology (Smith, Yetkili, Chapman), developmental psychology (Doering), cognitive
 neuroscience (Parkin, Moutsiana, Evans), clinical (Hazell) and forensic psychology (Dando).
 This has fuelled strong growth across several new and existing research areas, including, for
 example, substantial growth in outputs and funded projects by the Psychophysiology and Stress
 Research Group, as well as leading in 2020 to the formation of the new Criminal, Investigative
 and Forensic Research Group (CIFR).

 The overall success of our staff development strategy is reflected in a strong record of promotion
 since 2014, including to Professor (Loveday), Reader (Cartwright, Waddington), and Senior
 and Principal Lecturer (e.g., Doering, Eardley, Gardner, Taylor). All Category A Teaching &
 Research eligible staff are on permanent contracts. Research Associates and Assistants on
 fixed-term (research only) contracts are able to access exactly the same support as staff on
 permanent contracts. The most crucial part of our overall staffing and recruitment strategy has
 been to ensure a balanced staff structure with early career researchers (e.g. Smyth, Parkin,
 Mackenzie), promising mid-career researchers (e.g., Cartwright, Evans, Bunday) and
 Professors to provide leadership (e.g., Buchanan, Dando, Golding; Loveday). This balance of
 experience and promise is fundamental for the effective management of current research activity

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (e.g., mentoring and grant reviewing), as well as for managing succession planning and future
 research strategy.

 2.2 Doctoral students

 There are currently 28 Psychology doctoral researchers, located in a large dedicated open-plan
 office in the heart of the unit’s base in central London. All students have personal desk spaces
 with individual computers. Currently, 3 full-time students are supported by full or partial bursaries
 and fee waivers arising from external funding or internal investment. A ring-fenced portion of the
 Psychology research budget (£15,000 pa) is available to support specific research expenses
 (e.g. participant payments, training and specialist equipment) available by completion of a one-
 page application, a process administered by the Psychology Research Student Coordinator
 (Doering).

 The University-wide Graduate School ensures that all PhD students and supervisors are
 supported and informed of opportunities and the resources available. Examples include the
 Globally Engaged Researcher Fund which funds students (up to £1000 pa per student) to
 complete specialist training external to the University, or to attend conferences and present their
 research, and the ‘125 Fund’ which provides financial support for projects and activities that
 enhance student employability. The Doctoral Researcher Development Programme (DRDP)
 administered by the Graduate School, and based on the national Vitae Researcher Development
 Framework, offers research students tailor-made workshops, specialist skill sessions and
 personal development activities to gain experience and skills towards career development and
 general researcher knowledge of, for example, ethics and research integrity. These target the
 needs of student at each stage of their PhD. For further details, see REF5a.

 Research students’ teaching and admin commitments are strictly limited during term time, with
 no teaching commitments at all in their first year of study - with timely completions emphasised
 from the offset. Students are encouraged to study for a Postgraduate Teaching Certificate (with
 fees/costs met by the Graduate School). The University’s Virtual Research Environment
 provides an auditable repository for logging student/supervisor meetings, storing documents and
 drafts, and providing feedback to support students to meet their PhD milestones. Further details
 can be found in REF5a. Our PGR students also benefit from school-based training in the specific
 research skills needed for their particular area of Psychology (e.g., eye tracker; virtual reality;
 SensCam; transcranial direct current stimulation; forensic coding; forensic interviewing), as well
 as more generic training in broader research skills and professional development.

 Proactive and responsive support of research students is managed locally by the Research
 Student Coordinator (Doering) and aligns with the wider University DRDP. Research students
 are also able to enroll on additional relevant modules/sessions from MSc courses. Student
 progress with the training programme and at key stages of the research degree (registration,
 transfer, completion) is monitored annually at unit, School and College level. An annual PhD
 conference allows research students to showcase their research across disciplines. All PGRs
 are allocated a main and a secondary supervisor relevant to their research area, and are invited
 to join a research group or research community from the offset where they take part in research-
 specific activities organized by their home group.
 Examples of the research and development activities of PhD students include an annual internal
 PhD conference, oral and poster presentations at prestigious peer-reviewed national and
 international conferences (e.g. American Psychology and Law, New Orleans 2019; British
 Psychological Society, Harrogate, 2019; Intermedia audio-visual translation conference,
 Warsaw, 2019; Sensing Culture, University of Bath, 2019). Various students have also
 contributed articles to national and international media. Examples include an article for the
 Guardian by Nahouli concerning his work teaching psychology in prisons, and a Parliamentary
 Office of Science and Technology report on immigration (Claire Tranter). Nahouli has worked
 extensively with London Probation Service to disseminate the findings of his PhD research on
 rapport building in practice. In early 2020 he presented his PhD research at a live webinar

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 attended by 45 members of UK Probation Service, for which feedback was extremely positive;
 for example: 'Thank you for doing this research because it really validates 16 years of my life.'
 His findings are being incorporated into Probation Service training by their Head of Research.
 Tranter (PhD awarded 2019) - funded by the UK MoD - was successful in her application for a
 highly competitive BPS Fellowship to the UK Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology in
 2018. She is now employed by the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office.

 2.3 Equality and diversity

 Psychology is committed to the highest standards of support for equality and diversity.
 Psychology staff set up the Black and Minority Ethnic Staff Network (BMESN) in 2015, which
 has access to budgetary support from the University and an internal (working with senior
 managers) and external (public-facing events) presence designed to highlight and reduce
 inequality, and lobby for changes to policy at Psychology and University levels. The BMESN,
 which is co-led by Psychology staff, was instrumental in setting up the University EDI policy and
 action plan, with an EDI Officer now in place to monitor activity across the University, including
 guidance on inclusive language and exit interviews to track equality issues/concerns. The
 BMESN and EDI officer assist Psychology in fostering diversity. Examples include actively
 encouraging people from diverse backgrounds to apply for positions in Psychology; ensuring
 that BME colleagues are invited/involved/consulted regarding strategic development plans;
 giving people a voice and listening; engaging with different perspectives; and celebrating our
 diversity. A recent example is BMESN’s contribution to developing the advert for 5 new
 Psychology posts, which strongly emphasised diversity. Two members of the BMESN also sat
 on the interview panels.

 The University of Westminster was the first university to be awarded the post May-2015 Athena
 Swan Bronze award. The Self-Assessment Team included staff from Psychology, who helped
 secure and implement the University action plan. Any staff involved in shortlisting and
 interviewing have to complete recruitment and selection training aimed at diversifying the staff
 body at Westminster. Junior staff and those from non-traditional backgrounds are particularly
 targeted for the training so that they can join interview panels. Alterations to our recruitment
 processes include advertising copy with specific text encouraging diverse candidates to apply.
 Mechanisms are in place to track measurables and promote equality in hiring (e.g. ensuring
 BAME representation on panels). We also provide mentoring for female research staff to seek
 promotion earlier in their career and to do so soon after periods of maternity leave. Staff
 returning to work after parental leave have been provided with bespoke support (condensed
 hours and a return-to-work mentor) designed to ease return. The unit encourages the promotion
 of non-biased language during reporting of research (e.g., avoiding binary reporting of gender in
 study participants).

 The male/female ratio at professorial level in Psychology is 50:50. Both Readers are female.

 Both the unit and wider university are clear in all available literature (website, advertisements
 and prospectuses) that we welcome applications from potential doctoral researchers with
 protected characteristics and from diverse backgrounds. Support is in place for doctoral
 students with protected characteristics, including adapted equipment and access to bespoke
 support as required. In 2020 one PhD student with impaired vision, for example, submitted her
 thesis and successfully completed her viva.

 Equality and diversity considerations were fundamental in selecting our output portfolio for
 REF2021 via a representative panel of internal reviewers (by gender, experience, expertise and
 race), internal reviewer training that highlighted equality and diversity, and decisions made
 concerning the submission of outputs assigned the same grade. In line with the University
 REF2021 Code of Practice, our final selection sought to enhance: i) the inclusion and
 representativeness of outputs produced by staff with protected characteristics and ii) the
 representativeness of outputs from different research areas.


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1. Income

 During the assessment period, Psychology has been in receipt of £2.765 million in research
 funding (as returned to HESA), more than quadruple that returned to REF2014. Staff benefit
 from a dedicated full-time Research Development Partner attached to Psychology, who identifies
 external funding opportunities and facilitates applications, and a specialised Post-Award Project
 Manager. The emphasis is on submitting applications only of the highest quality by way of a
 clearly articulated and transparent team peer-review process. This team comprises current or
 former members of UKRI Peer Review Colleges and senior researchers with expertise in
 relevant domains. Such processes are complemented by seed-corn funding to pump-prime
 projects seeking external support.

 A selection of grants since REF2014 that showcase the breadth of our national and international
 research income include:

     •   £70,285 - Centre for Research and Evidence on Security Threats (Buchanan) to
         investigate spreading disinformation online;
     •   £2.5 million - ‘SUrvivors' Rehabilitation Evaluation after CANcer (SURECAN)’, NIHR with
         £48,000 to Westminster (Ridge);
     •   £75,000 – Quintin Hogg Trust (Cartwright) to investigate GP burn out and resilience;
     •   £75,398 - West London Clinical Commissioning Group (Cartwright) to evaluate the
         benefits of yoga on social prescription;
     •   £555,000 - Swiss National Science Foundation, with £90,000 to Westminster (Doering)
         to research value development in children;
     •   £100,000 - US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) (Dando) to investigate cross-
         cultural persuasion in intelligence gathering interviews;
     •   £87,000 - Ministry of Defence (MoD) research grant (Dando) to research persuasion in
         virtual environments;
     •   £358,000 - Economic Social Research Council with £43K to Westminster to explore
         navigational differences and environmental perception (Loveday);
     •   £950,000 - European Research Council (Silvanto) to investigate links between mental
         imagery, working memory and conscious perception;
     •   £125,000 – Roche: ‘Investigating how carers cope, access and use support services –
         Lessons from Covid-19’ (Cartwright);
     •   £60,000 - Sir Halley Stewart Trust: ‘Understanding the needs of those supporting
         students who self-harm’ (Smyth).

 Such success in securing external funding is a mark of the success of our post-REF2014
 strategy to better align our research with UK Government and International funding priorities,
 and to target a broad range of national and international funding bodies.

 3.2. Infrastructure and facilities

 Psychology benefits from dedicated high-quality research facilities managed by two experienced
 research technicians, one of whom is registered with the Science Council (RSci) and has
 completed Science Council training to become an assessor for RSci and RSci Technicians.
 Facilities include 8 laboratories (Health, Cognitive, Qualitative, Cognitive Neuroscience, Sound
 Attenuated/Eye Tracker laboratory, 2 behavioral studies labs, EEG lab and TSM lab), 2
 qualitative interview labs, 7 research cubicles and 3 specialist PC labs. Additional specialist
 equipment/facilities include a Neuronavigation system for accurate TMS coil placement;
 CANTAB; NeuroConn DC-STIMULATOR MR (with DC-S Study Mode Software); and motion
 sickness cabin chair.




                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Psychology staff and PGR students are also able to access MRI scanning facilities at University
 College London: via Moutsiana, who is an MRI trainer, and Evans, who has ongoing research
 links with UCL via his involvement in the c3consortium, a body of researchers working on
 cognition and communication across the UK.

 The Psychology staff offices are located on our Cavendish Campus, situated in the floor
 immediately below the PhD office, ensuring that doctoral researchers are physically close to
 their supervisors and vice versa. The Psychology staff offices were completely remodelled in
 2014 at a cost of £941,326. In 2015 the space won the award for Best Interior Fit Out in a Public
 Sector building at the FX Interior Design Award for its simplicity, unity, innovative use of space,
 lightness and flexibility. All staff have permanent office space, with designated, exclusive areas
 for visiting lectures and researchers.

 Psychology staff have access to libraries at 4 campuses (Cavendish, Harrow, Regent Street,
 Marylebone), with a full-time dedicated academic liaison librarian and a Psychology-specific
 collection situated at Cavendish. Our librarian liaises directly with staff to maintain UoA4-relevant
 resources, ensuring access to the relevant journals and that hard copy textbooks, e-books and
 digital audio and visual material are available and up-to-date. Bookable study, research and
 meeting space is available in all libraries, further extending the research facilities outlined above.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research networks and partnerships

 Psychology at Westminster is exceptionally well-connected, nationally and internationally, and
 hosts or participates in a number of influential research networks. Collectively, as well as
 individually, these networks make a distinctive contribution to society and wider research
 agendas, especially within the domain of applied health, applied cognition and developmental
 psychology.

 International partnership examples:
 A four-year project on value development in children funded by the Swiss National Science
 Foundation links Westminster with the University of Western Australia, Basel University,
 Switzerland, and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem (Doering). Non-coercive cross-cultural
 interrogation funded by the US Government links Westminster with the FBI, University of Texas
 at El Paso, and Iowa State University (Dando). Understanding the impact of yoga and
 meditation for school children in the USA links Westminster with Harvard Medical School
 (Cartwright). Reducing stress (measuring cortisol) by improved green spaces links Westminster
 with the Royal Horticultural Society and the University of Virginia (Smyth). Westminster has also
 developed enduring research links with a number of international universities through hosting
 several internationally-funded internships, including: Dr. Turner (Deakin University, Australia) for
 6 months funded by Deakin University; Dr. Rajcani (Bratislava University, Slovakia) for 3
 months; and Dr. Shi (Tianjin University, China) for 1 year funded by the Chinese Government.
 Research collaborations have also developed between Smyth and academics at University of
 Virginia; Flanders University, Deakin University (Australia), Bratislava University (Slovakia), and
 Tianjin University.

 National partnership examples:
 Research funded by the Sir Halley Stewart Trust has advanced understanding of suicide in
 probation service users and suicide prevention and management for National Rail, and directly
 links Westminster with the National Probation Service and National Rail (Cartwright). A project
 funded by the UK Ministry of Defence to investigate cross-cultural persuasion in virtual
 environments (Dando) links Westminster with the UK Centre for the Protection of National
 Infrastructure, UK MoD and UK Government at Porton Down. Hazell’s work on increasing
 access to psychological therapies links Westminster to University of Sussex, Sussex Partnership
 NHS Foundation Trust, University of Oxford. Ballieux is a member of the interdisciplinary


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Comparative Cognition Group, which links Westminster to UCL, Kings College, Birkbeck, City
 University, and University of Kent

 4.2 International and national research collaborations

 Since 2014, staff in Psychology have developed a wide range of enduring collaborative national
 and international research partnerships with other HEIs, charities and government and non-
 government organisations. For example:

 Buchanan: National and international research collaborations with peers at Aston and Leicester
 Universities in the UK, Hanover College, Indiana, USA, University of Konstanz, Germany and
 Masaryk University, Czech Republic.

 Cartwright: National and international collaborations with Directorate of Optometric Continuing
 Education and Training, Northwest Healthcare Trust, West London Clinical Commissioning
 Group; Evaluating the impact of an immersive disease simulation programme (‘In Their Shoes’)
 on pharmaceutical employees’ empathy and engagement. Takeda Pharmaceuticals. National
 Probation Service.

 Dando: International collaborations with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) in Texas and
 Washington DC; The USA High Value Detainee Interrogation Research group in Washington
 DC; International Criminal Court at The Hague. National collaborations with the University of
 Bath (as a member of the Centre for Applied Autism Research); University of Sussex; University
 of Portsmouth; UK College of Policing; National Crime Agency; Anti-Slavery NGOs.

 Doering: National collaborations with charities - Common Cause, Global Action Plan, Stuart
 Low Trust – and with peers at Royal Holloway, and internationally with the University of Basel,
 Switzerland and Hebrew University of Jerusalem.

 Hazell: Research collaborations with the Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine, Singapore;
 Greater Manchester Mental Health NHS Foundation Trust.

 Yetkilli: Middle East Technical University (Turkey) and University of Kent Centre for Study of
 Group Processes.

 Smyth: Royal Horticultural Society, University of Essex, Swansea University.

 Eardley: Smithsonian Institution, Washington DC.

 4.3 Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries and audiences

 Research users, beneficiaries and audiences for our research range from government
 departments, public services, regulatory bodies and charities to industry and individual
 organisations. Collaborations span most inhabited continents, uniting Westminster with
 researchers across at least 40 countries. The intellectual substance and material contributions of
 these collaborations have supported knowledge exchange and intellectual development,
 bringing new insights from overseas, while sharing our expertise with a wide international base,
 who augment and support the development of new ideas. Key examples include:

    •   Buchanan has worked with BBC News and the BBC World Service as an academic
        advisor for the online ‘iWonder’ guide which provides targeted guidance and advice for
        adults and children on individual use of social media. He has worked extensively with
        frontline agencies at the UK Gov. Centre for Research and Evidence on Security
        Threats, advising on how manipulated information intended to mislead audiences for
        malicious purposes is spread and has provided confidential briefings on disinformation to
        UK Government agencies and departments including sections of the Foreign Office and
        Home Office.

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Cartwright works extensively with the NHS and various clinical commissioning bodies to
        understand the impact of yoga on physical and mental health, including developing the
        Big Yoga Survey, the first UK-wide survey for understanding applications and benefits.
        Her research findings have been presented at UK parliament and to national and
        international practitioner audiences to raise awareness of the health benefits of yoga.
        She has also worked with the UK Probation Service towards reducing suicide in prison
        and probation populations where her work has contributed to improving suicide
        prevention strategies across the UK.
    •   Dando is an interview trainer and advisor for the International Criminal Court, The Hague
        and the USA Transport Security Administration, and her work is cited in UK College of
        Policing interview guidance documents. Her research relationships with practitioner
        frontline organisations have resulted in the development of novel non-coercive and
        ethical intelligence interview techniques which have been widely implemented, bringing
        about tangible changes in techniques used to interview aviation travellers, witnesses and
        suspected offenders in Europe and the USA. She is a non-executive director of the West
        Midlands Anti-Slavery Network and has worked in Romania as a trainer and advisor to
        the Romanian government.
    •   Doering is a scientific advisor for the Water Explorer Programme and has been
        fundamental in guiding this international schools programme, which includes 46,000
        children from 11 countries who are supported to take bold and powerful action to save
        water through fun water-saving Missions, including, for example, cleaning rivers and
        beaches in South Africa, and upcycling projects to save water in Turkey.
    •   Hazell has worked closely with the Office for Students to ‘Rethink Mental Illness’ and
        evaluate student mental health. This project has resulted in freely-available guidance for
        students on setting up a PhD online support group, self-care strategies poster and the
        development of ‘looking after yourself’ workshops. All guidance and materials are widely
        available and have been used to develop blogs and student wellbeing communities
        nationally and internationally.
    •   Loveday is a trustee for Age UK. Working with Microsoft and older adults in the
        community, she has championed the use of SenseCam, a wearable camera to support
        their memory and improve independence. Loveday has also contributed to Jill Bennett
        and Volker Kuchelmeister’s development of Amnesia Atlas at University of New South
        Wales (UNSW), Sydney. Amnesia Atlas is a 3D immersive browser for viewing
        photographs taken by SenseCam to assist memory retrieval.
    •   Smyth works closely with the Royal Horticultural Society to champion the importance of
        green spaces for health and wellbeing and the Office for Students for supporting carers
        of students who self-harm.

 4.4 Contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The contribution of our staff and PhD students to the wider research base is evidenced by
 service on national and international research funding bodies. For example, Buchanan, Dando
 and Loveday are UKRI Peer Review College members. Cartwright is a National Institute of
 Health Research reviewer. Evans is a reviewer for Natural Sciences and Engineering Research
 Council of Canada. Doering is a reviewer for the Israeli Research Foundation. Dando is a
 reviewer for American Institutes of Research and the ESRC for the Centre for Research and
 Evidence on Security Threats and Understanding and Countering and Mitigating Security
 Threats Panels. Buchanan has been an Assessment Panel Member for the €4.2M Society,
 Integrity and Cyber-Security call within the Nordic Societal Security Programme, the ESRC,
 Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency (MSB), Norwegian Directorate for Civil Protection (DSB),
 Research Council of Norway (RCN), Academy of Finland (AKA), Icelandic Centre for Research
 (Rannís), Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (NWO) and NordForsk. Swedish
 Civil Contingencies Agency (MSB). Smyth is a reviewer for the British Heart Foundation.

 Psychology staff have served extensively on national and international journal editorial boards.
 Of particular note are: Yetkili: Social Psychology; Turkish Journal of Psychology, Smyth:
 European Journal of Cancer Care; Psychneuroendocrinology, International Journal of

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Environmental Research, Public HealthPsychology and Health, Biological Psychology, Dando:
 Cognition; Memory; Legal and Criminological Psychology, Evans: Assistant Chief Editor of
 Frontiers in Psychology: Consciousness Research, reviewer for Nature, Human Brain Mapping;
 Nature Scientific Reports, Buchanan: editorial board of the International Journal of Internet
 Science & Zeitschrift für Psychologie, Gardner: Frontiers of Cognition.

 Media: Psychology staff have contributed extensively to the public understanding of science on
 television, radio, and in newspapers and podcasts. Loveday regularly appears on BBC Radio
 4’s All in the Mind, BBC World Service, BBC Radio 3, BBC Radio 6, and Talk Radio. Her
 expertise on the psychology of cognitive function has featured on BBC1’s ‘One Show’ and Hugh
 Fearnly-Whittingstall’s BBC show ‘Easy Ways to Live Well’. Other notable contributions to wider
 public understanding of psychological science include Golding, Smyth and Cartwright on
 BBC2’s Trust Me I’m a Doctor, Evans as a discussant on BBC Radio 4’s ‘Word of Mouth’,
 Eardley on Radio 4, Dando on Radio 4, Capitol Radio, BBC breakfast news and ITV news
 bulletins and as scientific advisor for Channel 4 TV, Golding on Radio 4’s ‘Word of Mouth’, BBC
 FIVE - ‘Stressed you’re not the only one’, Naked Scientist, Talk Radio AM640 Toronto, Waking
 U Why the clocks changing are great for your brain, The Conversation; Metro; Scientific
 American, World Economic Forum, Real Clear Science, Medical Xpress, British Academy Blog
 Post: ‘How can you reduce the negative effects of stress?', Stress Management The Times;
 Daily Mail, Stress and conspiracy theories: Daily Mail; Independent.

 In support of emerging best practice, Psychology has a ReproducibiliTea journal club, which
 meets every 2 weeks as part of the broader national ReproducibiliTea journal club initiative.
 These sessions involve discussion of specific journal articles or discussion of more general
 issues concerning research methods, statistics and reproducibility. These are facilitated by
 Evans who is one of the first graduates from the BBSRC Research Stars, Advanced Methods
 for Reproducible Science residential course, a training course funded by Psychology. As part of
 the UKRN, Psychology has access to reproducibility training opportunities and initiatives run by
 UKRN.

 Loveday is currently Chair of the British Psychological Society Psychologist Digest Editorial
 Advisory Committee, a member of the British Psychological Society Research Board and sits on
 the board of SHINE (Spina Bifida and Hydrocephalus). Other members of Psychology serve or
 have served on several BPS Committees including: Member of The Psychologist and Digest
 Editorial Advisory Committee; Undergraduate Education Committee (UEC); Division of
 Academics Researchers and Teachers in Psychology (DART-P); Section on Sexualities; and the
 BPS conference committee. Dando won the BPS Cognitive Section prize for the best paper in
 Cognitive Psychology (2016) for her aviation security paper. She chaired the BPS Memory and
 Law Task Group. Smith is an advisory panel member for a UK Energy Research Centre project.
 Buchanan was co-editor of the 2017 British Psychological Society Ethics Guidelines for
 Internet-Mediated Research.

 One notable emerging contribution to society has been our response to the ongoing COVID-19
 world health crisis. Psychology has made contributions in ways that cut across both research
 and impact. Psychologists have worked to understand and mitigate the negative mental health
 outcomes of lockdown and the negative impact on education, quickly producing guidance on
 effective support for self-harm amongst university students (including doctoral researchers)
 across the sector via the CHERISH website (Hazell, Smyth, Cartwright). In parallel, Loveday
 has helped steer the British Psychological Society response to COVID-19.




                                                                                           Page 14
