Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Westminster

 Unit of Assessment: 20 Social Work and Social Policy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Research in Social Work and Social Policy, including Criminology, is located within the School of
 Social Sciences and is coordinated by the internationally renowned Centre for the Study of
 Democracy (CSD). Grounded in a broad understanding of democracy as encompassing
 relational dynamics, social justice, power, security, and governance, the Centre supports a wide
 range of interdisciplinary research on social, personal and political lives. Research planning and
 management is overseen by the Head of School, Professor Dibyesh Anand (UoA19), and the
 Social Policy Research Lead (Gillies), who is also the Deputy Director of CSD. The Unit
 comprises 20 (19.5 FTE) permanent staff, all but one of whom has a significant responsibility for
 research, and 14 current doctoral students.

 This is the first time that the University of Westminster has entered a submission in the Social
 Work and Social Policy Unit of Assessment. Following a review of research capacity in 2014, a
 decision was made by the then Dean of the Faculty of Social Sciences and Humanities,
 Professor Roland Dannreuther, to support significant investment in the research areas of social
 policy and criminology. The aim was to draw together existing staff working in these fields,
 alongside new appointments, in order to create a dynamic, inclusive and cohesive research
 culture in the discipline. Crucial to this strategy was establishing a common research
 management structure, alongside various ongoing intellectual and pedagogical collaborations,
 that would help to build our identity as a single Unit. Gillies (who joined us from Goldsmiths
 University of London) was specifically appointed as Professor of Social Policy and Criminology
 to take on a research leadership role in this regard.

 The construction of a new research Unit since 2014 has allowed us to provide a more
 appropriate context for existing staff who were previously entered in different UoAs outside the
 Unit (for example, Pitcher in Politics and Eldridge in Architecture, Built Environment and
 Planning), while also giving a ‘home’ to research-active staff (e.g. Darke, Rudoe, White) who
 were, despite having several excellent outputs, unable to be entered to REF2014 because of the
 lack of a suitable UoA with critical mass in which to incorporate their research. Since 2014,
 indicative of the University’s very significant support for, and investment in, the subject area, the
 Unit has expanded considerably, with the appointment of eight (8 FTE) new research-active
 members of staff (Ahmed, Falconer, Gillies, Sitkin, Stephansen, Bennallick, Atkinson-
 Sheppard, Gerard and Van Der Westhuizen) across its core areas, most of whom were ECRs.
 Finally, an additional strategic aim of establishing a new clear framework for research in the
 discipline has been successfully realised in the bringing back to research activity of a number of
 staff members who in 2014 had no outputs to return (e.g. Aresti, Jenkins, Manlow), something
 which has been achieved, in large part, through collaborative research between colleagues
 across both the Unit and School of Social Sciences more widely.

 From a standing start the Unit has developed from strength to strength to become a thriving hub
 of research activity. Meaningful practical support and resource investment laid the foundation for
 a burgeoning new body of work broadly centring themes of social justice and power, with
 research agendas ranging from the participation and inclusion/exclusion of prisoners, migrant
 and minority ethnic groups, LBGT communities, children, families and young people. Given the
 Unit’s youth, progress has been exceptional and provides a solid foundation for continuing future
 growth

 CSD was established in 1989 and has built an international reputation for research excellence. It
 is headed by a Director (Professor Graham Smith; submitted UoA19) and Deputy Director
 (Gillies), both of whom have extensive experience of research management: Smith has
 previously been Head of Department at the University of Southampton and has led a number of
 large funded research projects, while Gillies was previously a director of the internationally-

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 recognized Weeks Centre for Social and Policy Research at London South Bank University and
 has led a range of Economic and Social Research Council grants. Gillies also acts as the
 research lead for the Social Work and Social Policy Unit. In that capacity, she oversees research
 progress reviews with all staff who currently have significant responsibility for research or who
 wish to develop their research capacities. The effectiveness of the Unit’s research structure can
 be evidenced by the considerable enhancement of research outputs, increase in applications
 and awards for research funding, growing PhD community and the exceptional number of
 external collaborations and events organised in our subject areas.

 The supportive and collegial community built since 2014 is a particular strength of the Unit, with
 collaborative projects, funding applications and knowledge exchange activities being actively
 encouraged, and financially and administratively supported and sustained. Social Policy at
 Westminster has consequently hosted a wide range of important national and international
 policy-related research networks, involving both staff and external organisations. These include:

    •   British Convict Criminology Network (working closely with the Prisoner Education Trust
        and Prison Reform Trust); Aresti, Bennallick, Darke, Manlow
    •   Migration Research Network (academics and NGOs including Migrant Voice, Migrant
        Rights Network and the Refugee council); Cetin, Eldridge, Jenkins, Sitkin
    •   Prisoner Learning Academic Network (an international grouping of academics working in
        prisons); Aresti, Bennallick, Darke, Manlow
    •   Strengthening Relationships and Sex Education hub (a regional advisory group funded
        by the strategic health authority); Rudoe
    •   Youth and Justice Network (bringing together youth practitioners and academics);
        founded by Manlow with former staff member Faith Gordon (now at Monash University)
    •   Alevi Studies UK Network (founded by Cetin and Jenkins as a hub of Alevi studies,
        bringing together scholars from across Europe)

 At the same time, recognition of the particular research strengths of the Unit are now reflected
 internally in the review and restructuring of CSD’s seven interdisciplinary research clusters,
 which have, since 2018, accorded a more central role to social policy and criminology research
 within the Unit. Currently, the Unit works across several clusters that reflect an inclusive
 conceptualisation of democracy as public and private frameworks of participation,
 representation, security, identity, marginalisation and social justice.

    •   Contemporary democratic theory and governance
    •   Critical international theory (Stephansen, Darke)
    •   Gender and sexuality (Eldridge, Falconer, Rudoe, Van Der Westhuizen, White)
    •   Governance, complexity and resilience (Bennallick, Gillies)
    •   Post-colonial politics, development and emerging powers (Ahmed, Sheppard)
    •   Security, violence and justice (Aresti, Bennallick, Darke, Gerard, Manlow, Sitkin)
    •   Social and cultural lives (Cetin, Eldridge, Falconer, Jenkins, Gillies, Khabaz, Pitcher)

 Research Strategy

 The overall strategy for research within the Unit is focused on supporting all staff to produce
 high-quality, internationally significant research, as well as fostering internal and external
 collaboration at both national and international levels. These goals have been delivered through
 our staff recruitment strategy, adoption of a new sabbatical scheme and new staff development
 activities, stronger University and School support for funding application preparation and
 management, and enhanced financial and administrative support for PhD students through the
 Westminster Graduate School.

 Support for staff with a significant responsibility for research has been considerably
 strengthened since 2014 through the strategic implementation of the University’s workload
 allocation model (WAM), in which dedicated research hours are directly incorporated into staff

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 timetables as a part of overall workload. This has been complemented by a new process for
 awarding and funding semester-long sabbaticals, open to all staff according to clear and
 transparent criteria. This was first established in 2015 in the previous Department of History,
 Sociology and Criminology and has, since 2018, subsequently continued within the new School
 of Social Sciences, and has substantially boosted the research outputs of those staff receiving
 one (see Section 2). For example, the sabbatical awarded to Darke in 2017 supported the
 development of his ground-breaking book, Conviviality and Survival: Co-Producing Brazilian
 Prison Order (Palgrave 2018); Eldridge, Rudoe and White produced multiple high-quality
 journal articles during their sabbaticals; Stephansen used hers to produce a large-scale
 collaborative and multi-disciplinary Horizon 2020 research bid on Trust in Governance and to
 finish her forthcoming book Global Media Activism (Routledge).

 The School provides dedicated personal research funds of up to £1300 for each staff member
 per annum to present papers at international conferences and/or support research field trips, as
 well as further resources for staff to organise events for both academic and practitioner
 audiences. Priority is given to those activities that involve public engagement and collaborations
 with external partners or other parts of the University to support interdisciplinary exchange.
 Competitive School-level PhD scholarships, and exploitation of other studentship schemes, have
 also allowed us to begin growing our numbers of doctoral registrations since 2014. As a result,
 we expect to see a considerable number of completions post-2020, including 14 students
 currently enrolled within the Unit. At University level, the Graduate School, as well as overseeing
 student progression and career development, offers a range of developmental and training
 activities, including seminars and networking events to facilitate sharing of best practice for
 doctoral students, supplemented, in turn, by more discipline-specific training at School level (see
 section 2).

 The Unit’s strategy has been supported through university investment in a dedicated Research
 and Knowledge Exchange Office (RKEO) staff base who work to identify external funding
 opportunities, encourage the development of grant applications and facilitate post-award
 management (see section 3). This has been underpinned by the development of a streamlined
 and effective research application process operating at the level of both the School and College
 to monitor the funding landscape and provide effective bid writing support and oversight. This
 process has enabled staff members to produce several high-quality applications, building their
 experience and profile and enabling them to successfully access a range of funds. For example,
 Rudoe received a Leverhulme Small research grant, Pitcher obtained a British Academy
 Research Fellowship and Darke gained a Leverhulme Fellowship in the period since 2016.

 Support for interdisciplinary research

 Research activity in the UoA is underpinned by a clear commitment to interdisciplinarity, with
 many projects spanning various subject boundaries to forge innovative new directions for
 research. For example, White’s work involves sociologists, medics and health workers in
 exploring the personal, social and physical needs and implications of gender identity, weight and
 reproduction. Gillies has collaborated with historians and filmmakers to explore the development
 of family support services over time. Her research critically examining the contribution of
 neuroscience to early years policy and practice has been reproduced in the BPS publication The
 Psychologist. A pioneering approach is being developed by Pitcher bringing together insights
 from archaeology and natural history to better understand racialized identities and landscapes of
 national belonging. Other UoA members’ research has been supported to draw on insights from
 human geography and from architecture and planning in the exploring of affect and embodiment
 in spaces and places (Falconer, Eldridge). Falconer is also collaborating with musicologists
 and psychologists to research the role amateur choir singing can play in reducing loneliness.

 CSD has played a key role in bringing researchers together and bridging disciplinary divides. It
 has also provided funding to support collaboration and jointly-organised events. For example,
 the Gender and Sexuality group has drawn on CSD funds to bring together colleagues from
 across social sciences, humanities, law and management. At a broader institutional level, new

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University-wide interdisciplinary Research Communities (RCs) established in 2019 have been
 specifically tasked with funding collaborative projects across disciplines (see REF5a.). Atkinson
 Sheppard was an early beneficiary of RC funding, having received support in the first round to
 research county lines drug dealing with a colleague from Psychology.

 Open research environment

 UKRI and REF open access requirements are fully complied with and staff are encouraged to
 make their work as accessible as possible. An institutional repository, WestminsterResearch, is
 administered by a dedicated Open Access team and the University has also invested in its own
 peer-reviewed open access press, the University of Westminster Press (see REF5a). It is
 indicative of the Unit’s support for this venture that Eldridge, for example, contributed a chapter
 to one of the Press’ most popular edited volumes, Destination London: The Expansion of the
 Visitor Economy (UWP 2019).

 Staff are further supported to pursue a range of both academic and non-academic open access
 research outputs, formats and mediums including blogs, podcasts and films, to make the
 outcomes of their research as widely and freely available as possible. For example, Stephansen
 has contributed to the Engaging Research blog at the Open University, Darke, Pitcher and
 Gillies have contributed to the not-for-profit media outlet The Conversation, Gillies’ work has
 been featured in a Sociological Review podcast and White is currently engaged in making a
 documentary film about pregnant men that seeks to make their extensive research in this area
 available to a wider, non-academic public.

 Impact strategy

 The body of research included in this UoA is characterised by its highly applied nature and
 relevance to practitioners and policy makers, including health and education professionals,
 NGOs, charities as well as local, national and international governments (see Section 4).
 Support to foster and develop research impact has been provided at the levels of the School and
 University through the provision of dedicated funds for each Unit to enable impact-related
 activities such as public engagement and the translation of research into action. For example,
 Rudoe received £6k in funding from the School to co-organise two Research Into Practice
 symposiums in July 2015 and June 2017 with RSE Hub bringing together practitioners, students
 and academics from across the country to explore how relationships and sex education can
 contribute to healthy development. Jenkins and Cetin received impact funding of £8000 from
 the University’s Strategic Research Fund to organise an international workshop in July 2019
 attended by Alevi leaders and educators from Turkey and Europe to develop an agreed
 curriculum and share good practice for Alevism lessons. Academics, journalists and NGOs
 working on migration issues were also brought together for a conference to discuss the
 European migration crisis in 2017. In addition, Stephansen received £1,696 from central
 university funding to organize a knowledge exchange workshop at the World Social Forum in
 Salvador, Brazil, in March 2018, featuring participants from Brazilian, French, Moroccan and
 Canadian NGOs working on media policy.

 Support has also been provided at the level of the School though internal impact workshops,
 mentoring and specific events bringing researchers together with practitioners. The University-
 wide Researcher Network has organised impact events where colleagues are able to explore
 and discuss different approaches to impact with experienced colleagues. Management systems
 have also been developed to promote impact activities. In particular, the Workload Allocation
 Model (WAM) enables the Head of School to designate specific hours for impact activities,
 ensuring that impact activities are recognised as a core academic responsibility. The UoA
 research lead (Gillies) has extensive experience of impact-related activities and offers informal
 advice and support to staff during and between annually convened research meetings with each
 staff member to discuss progress and individual goals.



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University impact strategy has been central to the success of the selected impact case
 studies. The University supported the Alevi Religion and Identity Project through its central
 Strategic Research Fund and funded Jenkins and Cetin’s initial work in schools with Alevi
 children and young people, encouraging and enabling them to apply for Leverhulme/British
 Academy funding to extend and focus their research. Dedicated impact funding was
 subsequently provided to translate the findings into practice by a Religious Education consultant
 to produce professional curriculum materials for Key Stages 1-4. Further internal impact funding
 was provided to bring together Alevi Community leaders and educators from across Europe to
 work towards an agreed curriculum for dissemination worldwide. CSD continues to regularly host
 Alevi Studies Network events.

 The Participatory Prison’s project also received significant financial and practical support to
 accelerate and strengthen impact. For example, the School has directly facilitated the prisoner
 education programmes in the UK and has funded Darke and Aresti to travel to Brazil and
 Argentina in order to develop and embed prison higher education programmes in Latin America
 based on their research.

 Future Strategic Priorities

 Looking to the next five years, the UoA will draw on the structures and practices that have
 established CSD as a world-leading centre of research, with particular focus given to increasing
 the number of staff supported to submit applications for research funding and external research
 partnerships and collaborations. Following our first submission in this REF, there is a
 determination to accelerate our rapid upward trajectory by promoting and supporting an
 expansive, dynamic and interdisciplinary culture of research and policy engagement in
 collaboration with staff in Politics, International Relations and Psychology (all based within the
 School), many of whom are working in cognate areas to those in Social Policy and Criminology.
 This goal will be achieved through the implantation of an effective research and impact strategy
 designed to further encourage and support the development of high-quality research outputs
 through:

    •   Steadily increasing our share of grant capture to develop emerging research specialisms
    •   Further enhancing and supporting interdisciplinary collaborative work both within the
        University and with external partners.
    •   Increasing inclusivity and BAME representation at all levels, from postgraduate students
        to senior staff.
    •   Advancing and accelerating the development and career progression of all researchers
    •   Addressing inequalities in research productivity caused by COVID-19 and related caring
        responsibilities.
    •   Increasing sustainably our numbers of research students and PhD completions.
    •   Further supporting and developing collaborations with non-academic institutions to
        promote effective impact.
    •   Strengthening our research impact and increasing our public engagement and
        knowledge transfer activities.

 These goals are supported and assessed through regular monitoring processes including annual
 reviews of research outputs by the Unit lead, statistical analysis of postgraduate performance
 and grant capture by the School Research Lead, and regular planning and strategy reviews at
 the level of the University and College Research Committees.

 Building on our rapidly gained strengths since 2014, as evidenced by the above, our ambition
 over the next five years is to grow our staff numbers further, thereby consolidating and extending
 our considerable accomplishments with the aim to achieve recognition as a leading Unit for
 social policy and practice-relevant research excellence in the UK and internationally.




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Staff

 Social Policy, Sociology and Criminology at the University of Westminster has undergone
 significant expansion since 2014; a sign of the University’s confidence in the emerging strength
 of the Unit. Seven new full-time members of staff have been recruited with a particular emphasis
 on existing and potential research profile: Stephansen (2014), Falconer, Ahmed and Sitkin
 (2015), Gillies (2016) and Atkinson-Sheppard and Gerard (2019). All have strong disciplinary
 specialisms and a commitment to producing high-quality research. Four existing staff previously
 on fractional contracts have also been promoted to full-time positions, Rudoe (2014), Cetin
 (2015), Bennallick (2018) and Van Der Westhuizen (2019), recognising their research
 achievements over the census period. This successful strategy for recruitment has brought an
 exceptional new energy and expertise to core areas related to social policy and criminology at
 Westminster, while retaining and inspiring longstanding staff members. Consequently, the Unit
 currently contains many early career staff alongside more established academics, reflecting a
 strong determination to invest in new talent, build capacity and commitment, and facilitate
 cutting-edge research. All staff within the Unit have permanent contracts, with Bennallick and
 Van Der Westhuizen upgraded to permanent posts soon after completing their PhDs. Part-time
 Visiting Lecturer contracts are, where possible, reserved specifically for our post-graduate
 researchers, allowing them to acquire lecturing experience.

 Strong emphasis is placed on staff wellbeing and collaborative support within the Unit. The need
 to support and nurture the capacities and skills of all academic researchers is well recognised
 and attended to through various mechanisms within the School and more broadly the College of
 Liberal Arts and Sciences, of which the School is a part. These include an institutional staff
 development programme providing bespoke research training opportunities, the allocation of
 research mentors to every academic member of staff, and the convening of biannual workshops
 to discuss and learn from work in progress, identify needs and build capacity. Investment is
 targeted toward the large number of early career staff in the Unit through a range of mechanisms
 designed to nurture talent and leadership (see section 3). The success of our ‘peer-to-peer’
 mentoring strategy – constructed in line with the key principles of the Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers – is evident in the development of a number of colleagues
 who were not previously judged to be ‘research active’ into active members of the Unit’s
 research culture.

 All of the researchers submitted to this UoA are given dedicated hours through workload
 allocation to pursue and develop their research alongside their teaching, scholarship and
 administrative duties, which are, in turn, monitored by the Research Lead and the Head of
 School in relation to individual staff research plans and objectives. All staff receive an annual
 guaranteed research time allocation through the application of a Workload Allocation Model
 (WAM) that designates specified hours for independent research (between 250 and 425 hours),
 scholarship (174 hours), PhD supervision and research management activities. When
 researchers successfully obtain external research grants, additional research time is ensured on
 top of this allocation. WAM is also used to assign additional dedicated time for impact, bid-
 writing and research management activities. This provision of time to undertake research is
 complemented by access to funds to support research-related activities. Dedicated research
 funds can be accessed on application, with each staff member guaranteed a personal allocation
 of up to £1,300 annually to present papers at national or international conferences and/or
 support field trips.

 These basic research entitlements have been supplemented with more strategically targeted
 support from School QR funds, including, since 2014, a sabbatical system enabling staff to apply
 for semester-long sabbaticals each year, allowing them the time and space to complete
 unencumbered a substantial piece of work. Jenkins, Pitcher, Rudoe, Darke, Eldridge, White,
 Stephansen, Falconer and Cetin have all successfully applied for sabbaticals since the system
 was introduced.

                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The allocation of research resources and sabbatical leave are administered through carefully
 monitored processes to ensure fairness and equality of opportunity. All competitive internal
 funding schemes have clearly set out criteria attached to them to ensure decisions are
 transparent, consistent and fair. This investment in staff is now beginning to pay off in several
 promotions within the Unit, including, for example, Pitcher from Senior Lecturer to Reader and
 Amhed, Falconer, Sitkin and Stephansen from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer.

 Doctoral Students

 The relative youth and rapid evolution of the research Unit since 2014, and its high proportion of
 early career researchers, is reflected in a lack of PhD completions during the eligible REF
 period. However, in line with the intensive and strategic development of the research area, there
 has been a substantial and sustained increase of postgraduate students within the UoA, with
 numbers having risen from zero to 14 since 2014. CSD currently supports a thriving PhD
 community and we are fully committed to the academic and broader development of our doctoral
 students. We operate a selective admissions policy and all PhD scholarships are competitive. An
 average of 3 PhD studentships are offered each year at the level of the School, with the Unit
 usually hosting one or two since 2018.

 Eldridge is the School Postgraduate Co-coordinator and is proactive in including junior
 colleagues in the supervisory teams of PhD students to ensure they gain the experience that will
 enable them to lead supervisory teams in the future. The University’s Graduate School offers
 further training in postgraduate supervision, which is mandatory for all new researchers. Where
 an applicant wishes to be supervised by a more junior colleague, it is a requirement that a more
 senior and experienced PhD supervisor plays an active role in the supervisory team, mentoring
 the junior colleague and ensuring the necessary progress against the university framework is
 achieved.

 The University-wide Graduate School (GS) oversees postgraduate progression via the
 University’s Virtual Research Environment, recording supervision logs, annual progress stages,
 ethics approval, annual training logs and personal development plans. The GS also provides
 research training across the University and coordinates the Doctoral Researcher Development
 Programme through a range of customised workshops, individual sessions and PDP activities
 based on the national Vitae Researcher Development Framework. For further details, see
 REF5a.

 Our PhD community is housed in two well-equipped rooms in the School, ensuring their full
 integration into the interdisciplinary research culture of CSD. PhD students can apply both for
 School funds to present papers at conferences and to a separate university fund for up to £1500
 to further their personal/professional development and/or employability. Within CSD, regular
 PhD training seminars take place throughout the academic year. These combine presentations
 from PhD students to their peers on their research projects and the challenges they face, with
 staff-led discussions on aspects of research design, methodology and career development
 (including postdoctoral opportunities). PhD students organize an annual conference within the
 School and are encouraged to attend the regular CSD research seminars and other events.
 Mentoring has been key in helping graduate researchers to begin their publishing careers while
 studying at Westminster. Final-year students present at work-in-progress workshops and are
 encouraged to present at CSD research seminars. The College also hosts an annual residential
 PhD away weekend that fosters relations between students across disciplines and Schools and
 is free to all students. We seek to ensure that all PhD students have teaching opportunities to
 enhance their employability and support them to complete the PG Certificate in Teaching. All
 PhD students are paid for their teaching work including those with studentships.

 Our strong commitment to supporting postgraduate research and the vibrant and stimulating
 environment of CSD is evidenced by a steady increase in registrations and progressions
 alongside some outstanding student achievements. For example, among current students in the

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Unit, Nikhaela Wicks won Best Presentation Award at the 14th Annual Ethnography Symposium
 in 2019 for her work on race and night time policing; Omar Khan was awarded a Globally
 Engaged Research Scholarship enabling him to present his work on prisons in the global south
 at the 2019 International Congress in Bogota, Colombia; and Safak Bozkurt was invited to
 address the International Convict Criminology conference in Padua after publishing a paper on
 women’s experiences of prison.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 We are strongly committed to ensuring equal opportunities for all our staff and students and
 recognise the importance of sustaining a positive and supportive work environment that
 promotes equality and diversity. A highly active Black and Minority Ethnic Network operates
 within the University promoting a collective identity and support for BME staff to lead the
 University forward and ensure it is robust in challenging discrimination in whatever forms it
 arises. Cetin is a representative on the BME Network committee, which meets quarterly to
 review activities, plan events and identify innovative ways to influence the anti-racist agenda.
 The BME network also works in step with other staff networks, including Women of Westminster
 (WOW) and the LBGTQI+ network. White is a campus representative for the LBGTQI+ staff
 network and has helped to organize a range of events including International Transgender
 Remembrance Day.

 We are particularly sensitive to issues relating to social justice including discrimination and
 exclusionary practices, as our research strengths in the area of racism, gender and class
 discrimination reflect. Over half the Unit’s staff members are women (58%), including the UoA
 lead, with one staff member identifying as non-binary. We are conscious that less than one-sixth
 of the Unit are from BME groups, but we hope to be able to redress this imbalance in the future
 through staff recruitment processes. A majority (70%) of the Unit’s current postgraduate students
 are from BME groups ensuring under-represented groups are given opportunities to progress
 and develop the skills and qualifications needed to pursue a career in academia. Postgraduate
 students within the Unit are themselves taking an active part in encouraging greater numbers of
 underrepresented groups to study at PhD level. For example, Khan and Hussain have organised
 BAME targeted events to ease and support PhD pathways. These have been very well attended
 with 55 prospective students logging on to access support and advice. Plans are underway to
 support our commitment to diversity and equality further through the introduction of a dedicated
 BME PhD studentship. Underrepresented groups are also supported as part of our growing
 specialism in Convict Criminology; three of our current postgraduate students are ex-prisoners,
 while another is pursuing his PhD from Grendon prison.

 More broadly, we are acutely aware of the continuous need to reflect on, identify and address
 institutional inequalities and their root causes. Gillies is currently working in collaboration with
 other Research Leads to review processes and policies systematically with the aim of
 significantly increasing inclusion and career progression for BAME and other marginalised and
 underrepresented social groups. Urgent attention is also being given to identifying and
 addressing inequalities caused and compounded by the global pandemic.

 All but one of the staff members in the wider Unit have significant responsibility for research.
 Staff not required to be research active are nonetheless allocated substantial hours of over 10%
 of their overall workload dedicated to scholarship. The broad and relatively balanced distribution
 of the output portfolio across all staff members reflects the Unit’s strong commitment to providing
 carefully tailored and effective research support. For REF2021, the UoA lead was involved in
 regular meetings at University level, which included detailed briefings on equality and diversity
 issues, unconscious bias and on the criteria for output selection. Submitted outputs were
 selected according to the process set out in the University’s REF2021 Code of Practice, with all
 outputs in the REF pool reviewed by at least two internal readers. The minimum one item per
 researcher was selected based on these assessments, with the remaining pieces comprising the
 best pieces in the available output pool. Where, exceptionally, internal and external evaluation
 resulted in the same evaluation, representation of staff with protected characteristics and from

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 different research areas across the submission was taken into consideration in the UoA Lead’s
 final decision on which outputs should be submitted.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income

 All researchers in the School of Social Sciences can draw upon the support and expertise of a
 full-time Research Development Partner (RDP), based within the Research and Knowledge
 Exchange Office (RKEO), who identifies external funding opportunities and assists in the
 development and submission of applications. The work of the RDP is supplemented by a
 specialised Post-Award Project Manager to ensure support for bids both pre- and post-award.
 The RKEO also houses a dedicated Impact Officer, with responsibility for facilitating impact
 activities and assisting in the preparation of impact case studies for the Unit.

 Targeted practical and financial support is provided at the level of the University, School and
 CSD to maximise the success of external grant funding through seed-funding and bid clinics.
 University funds are available on application to support interdisciplinary meetings/workshops
 with external partners to facilitate the development of research networks and external bids. For
 example, Falconer received funding to bring together leading academics in the fields of music
 and psychology to develop a research council bid on gender, loneliness and singing. Intensive
 grant writing sessions have also been provided for staff in the process of constructing a research
 bid, facilitated by experts from the Missenden Centre. Darke and Falconer both successfully
 applied to attend day-long workshops.

 The School operates a robust and supportive system to ensure the high quality of research
 proposals. The Unit’s research lead is the first port of call for colleagues intending to develop a
 proposal. Once the Lead is clear that the idea is intellectually strong, significant and fulfils the
 targeted funder’s criteria, the colleague is directed to the Research Development Partner to
 develop the proposal. A draft of the proposal is reviewed by a minimum of two experienced
 research colleagues. This reviewing pool is composed of current and former members of UKRI
 Peer Review Colleges. Colleagues must obtain authorisation from the Head of School and
 College Research Director in order to submit an application. This process enables the Unit to
 promote quality and where necessary manage demand for popular calls. A code of good
 research practice (updated in 2020) sets out a clear framework to ensure research is conducted
 to the highest standards of integrity. All researchers are required to comply with the University
 Ethics Code and must obtain approval from University Ethics Committee before commencement
 of their work and where appropriate throughout the duration of the research.

 Furthered by a vibrant and highly committed group of ECRs developing and strengthening the
 research culture in the Unit, these processes have led to important external grants awarded to
 the UoA over the course of the census period despite the highly competitive funding
 environment. These include:

    •   Smeaton ESRC Extending Working Lives - Health and Well-being Implications and
        Facilitators (2014-17)
    •   Rudoe British Academy/Leverhulme Small Research Grant: Nursery Schools and
        Education Policy in England: The State of Play (2015)
    •   Jenkins and Cetin British Academy/Leverhulme Family and Kinship in Alevi
        Communities (2014-1017)
    •   White (Co I) ESRC project Pregnant Men: An International Exploration of Trans Male
        Practices of Reproduction (2017-20)
    •   Jenkins ERASMUS+ Turkish National Agency, the Turkish Directorate of Lifelong
        Learning and Eskisehir Chamber of Industry Module Distance Education System as a
        new product for reducing the Education Job Matched in European Area (2016-17)



                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Pitcher British Academy Research Fellowship, Tackling Right-Wing Populism:
        Theoretical, Political and Activist Responses (2018)
    •   Gillies (Co I) ESRC Parental social licence for operational data linkage to identify
        families for service intervention (2020–22)
    •   Darke Leverhulme Research Fellowship, Self-Governing Brazilian Prison Communities
        (2021)

 Infrastructure and facilities

 Particular effort has been made at the level of the School and CSD to support the development
 of ECRs and others with equality-related circumstances, directing resources through:

     • Developing researcher funds: In 2019 researchers across the School were invited to bid
       for up to £5000 to consolidate and develop their research capacity. Atkinson Sheppard
       and Van Der Westhuizen both received awards to support their work in this way.
     • Writing retreats: Internal and external sessions have been provided to encourage staff to
       write and work on outputs in a supportive group atmosphere. Internal sessions have
       been made accessible to all staff, while intensive residential structured writing retreats
       delivered at the Abbey Sutton Courtney in Abingdon have been targeted at early career
       researchers. Bennallick and Stephansen have both attended the residential retreat.
     • School research funds: Staff can bid for up to £500 to supplement fieldwork, pursue
       collaborations with external partners or organise a research event. For example,
       Bennallick was funded to organize a Prisoner Learning Academic Network seminar
       involving a mix of 52 practitioners and academics.

 Research staff and students have access to extensive, high-quality research resources including
 cutting-edge computer facilities and four libraries (one at each campus) housing an extensive
 collection of books, journals, DVDs and other specialist materials (see REF5a). Online access is
 provided to hundreds of social science journals and thousands of ebooks with relevance to the
 UoA. All staff have individual office space in our central London base. The Regent Library, which
 includes dedicated physical and online resources for social sciences and humanities, is located
 five minutes away in the University’s Little Titchfield Street Building, along with our University
 Records and Archives Service, which houses rich and detailed material from the University’s
 180-year social history, as well as access to expertise on digital preservation and management.

 Outstanding campus-based facilities for research meetings, seminars, workshops and
 conferences are also nearby, including our historic Regent Street Cinema (often described as
 the ‘birthplace of British cinema’), which was restored in 2015 with support from the Quintin
 Hogg Trust, Heritage Lottery Fund and Garfield Weston Foundation, and which can be booked
 by staff for special events and screenings. Our central London location also means that
 researchers have access to some of the best research resources in the world within walking
 distance, including the British Library, Senate House, Wellcome Library and London
 Metropolitan Archives.

 CSD has a dedicated state-of-the-art seminar room, The Westminster Forum, which is used for
 many of the UoA’s research activities, such as its regular seminar series. The two PhD rooms,
 which can accommodate up to 10 PhD students each, ensure access to up-to-date computer
 equipment and electronic resources. In addition, CSD sustains and supports a dynamic research
 culture with over 200 events since 2014, including a large number of ‘sold out’ high-profile
 events. For example, the international research symposium on Tackling Right-Wing Populism:
 Theoretical, Political and Activist Responses in 2019 (organized by Pitcher) was full to capacity.




                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our burgeoning research capacity and impact is demonstrated through a wide range of
 contributions to academic and policy-making communities, both nationally and internationally.

 International Research Collaborations and Exchanges
 We have very strong international collaborative links reflecting the reach and relevance of our
 work across the globe. Aresti has been invited to share his expertise on convict criminology at
 the Federal University of Mato Grosso do Sul Europe, University of Sao Paulo Brazil and
 University of Padua, Italy. Cetin and Jenkins have worked with Kocaeli University in Turkey as
 part of a British Academy Fellowship surveying the London Alevi community and their
 communities of origin in Turkey. They are also currently working with Anadolu University in
 Turkey, Masaryk University in Czechia and Friedrich Alexander University in Germany on a
 project exploring Education, Mobility, Lifelong-Learning and Training. Darke has worked with the
 University of Sao Paulo, Brazil and Cornell University in the US developing ground-breaking
 research on Latin American prisons. Gerard is a member of the US-based Homicide Research
 Working Group and has worked with academics from the University of South Florida. Eldridge
 has developed work on night time studies with academics from the University of Montpellier,
 New University in Lisbon and TU Berlin where he was invited to launch a seminar series in 2017.
 Gillies is collaborating with academics from the University of Helsinki and University of
 Stockholm on a comparative project exploring wellbeing policies in schools. She is also an
 international partner to the Cross-sectoral Policies and Educational Practices research group
 (CRISP) at the University of Helsinki. Pitcher has worked with a colleague from Tulane
 University, New Orleans, to organize an international research symposium on Tackling Right-
 Wing Populism: Theoretical, Political and Activist Responses, with invited contributions from
 leading UK and international researchers. White is a co-investigator on an ESRC-funded project
 with colleagues from Leeds University and researchers in Italy, USA and Australia exploring
 practices of trans pregnancy. Sitkin is a member of the European working group on
 Organisational Crime and Border Criminologies. Ahmed’s work on Islamophobia and the war on
 terror is recognised though her honorary position as a Research Associate at Salzburg
 University, Austria. Stephansen is a Visiting Researcher at the Department of Information
 Science and Media Studies at the University of Bergen, Norway.

 Research Networks and Collaborations
 We have generated influential cross-disciplinary research networks and collaborations, drawing
 in academics, policy makers and practitioners from a variety of disciplines and sectors since
 2014. Aresti and Darke are founder members of the British Convict Criminology Network, an
 organisation led by former convicts with the aim of researching and critiquing current
 representations of crime and prisons. Darke’s work on Brazilian prisons has also been widely
 cited by the Ministry of Justice and he is affiliated to the Brazil Institute at Kings College London.
 Bennallick is the founder and Chair of the Prisoner Learning Academic Network, an
 international network of 150 academics interested in prison education. She also set up PUPiL
 (Prison University Partnerships in Learning), a national network of more than 200 educators and
 practitioners working in educational partnerships. Since April 2020 she has been working with
 DWRM consultants on methods of increasing digital access for prisoners and ex-prisoners. Van
 de Westhuizen is advising the Child Exploitation and Online Protection (CEOP), a Command of
 the National Crime Agency, on writing guidance for schools and colleges on ‘sexting’. Gerard
 has worked with the National Crime Agency, the West Midlands Probation Services and is
 currently collaborating with the West Midlands and Coventry Police. Atkinson-Sheppard is a
 member of the Eurogang Network, a group of international academics and practitioners who
 specialise in gangs and organised crime. Sitkin has been a Trustee for the ‘Habeas Corpus
 Project’ which has sought to challenge the unlawful immigration detention of individuals in the
 UK by offering pro-bono legal representation.

 Falconer is on the executive committee for the Feminist and Women’s Studies Association
 (FWSA) for the UK and Ireland and is the Co-Convenor of the BSA Gender Study Research
 Group. Eldridge organized a conference at Westminster on Tourism and the Night, involving

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 participants from Canada, Australia, Spain, Portugal, Italy, France, Germany, Bulgaria, Belgium,
 and Hungary. Ahmed also co-hosted an event at the University with the Encompass Trust:
 ‘Palestine 50 years on’. Further collaborative events organised within the Unit include, for
 example, a two-day conference on migration in 2017. The International Editor for Channel 4
 News, Lindsey Hilsum, chaired one of the conference’s key debates entitled ‘The Migration
 crisis, the migrants, and Europe’s response’ and Maurice Wren, CEO of Refugee Council, and
 Gonzalo Vargas Llosa, UNHCR representative to the UK, were among the panellists. Other
 speakers included Jean Lambert, Green MEP, Roger Casale, Founder and Director of News
 Europeans, Parminder Bahra, Executive Producer of the Wall Street Journal Europe, the Middle
 East and Africa and Harriet Grant from the Guardian.

 Impact Collaborations
 The Unit prioritises the funding of events that involve collaboration with non-HE actors, and staff
 are actively encouraged and enabled to feed their research expertise into policy and practice.
 For example, Aresti is part of a team of delegated experts invited to National Offender
 Management Service, Ministry of Justice and other statutory service related events to
 advise/inform on resettlement practices, discrimination and employment of ‘ex-offenders’ and the
 stigma of criminal convictions. He was also involved in a collaborative project with Goldsmiths
 and the Prison Education Trust exploring UK universities’ admission policies on former prisoners
 with the aim of informing and influencing policy change with regards to the disclosure of criminal
 convictions and the admissions process. Atkinson-Shepard was invited by the United Nations
 Office on Drugs and Crime to develop teaching material to further global approaches of
 understanding gender and organised crime, and she is currently acting as a consultant to Essex
 County Council in designing research on the exploitation of children in ‘county lines’ drug
 trafficking. Jenkins and Cetin’s project on Education, Mobility, Lifelong-Learning and Training
 has been judged to be the best model of an applied research project in Turkey by the Turkish
 Ministry of European Union Affairs and was the subject of a documentary made by Turkish
 National TV station TRT. Van de Westhuizen is working with the London Grid for Learning (a
 community of schools and local authorities) to develop a teaching and training resource based
 on her research on ‘sexting’.

 Members of the UoA have also been supported and encouraged to engage in a variety of
 advisory and knowledge exchange activities and have made an important contribution to the
 development of organisational polices and practice. For example, White has participated in
 Gender Identity Development Service (GIDS) Family Days in London, Exeter and Leeds for the
 NHS Child and Adolescent Gender Identity Service and has provided CPD training to over 100
 obstetricians and gynaecologists. They have also addressed the Parliamentary LGBT Staff
 Network at Portcullis House on non-binary gender and workplace inclusion and authored Non-
 Binary Staff and Student Guidance for higher education institutions. They have also acted as a
 consultant for Amnesty International. Gillies has acted as consultant for Family Action (a major
 charity providing support services to families facing financial hardship, mental health problems,
 social isolation, learning disabilities. domestic abuse, or substance and alcohol problems),
 Islington Community NHS Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services, Social and Sustainable
 Capital (a social investment fund manager) and her work has been presented at a seminar
 organised by the Association of Directors of Children’s Services. She was invited to give oral
 evidence in February 2018 to the Education Parliamentary Select Committee inquiry on
 alternative provision based on her book Pushed to the Edge: Inclusion and Behaviour Support in
 Schools. She has also made two submissions to the Parliamentary Science & Technology select
 committee in collaboration with leading academics from the Universities of Sheffield,
 Southampton, Birkbeck and Kent. The second submission to the committee’s inquiry into the
 evidence-base for early years intervention was represented in an oral evidence session and was
 widely cited in the subsequent report.

 International Keynote Presentations and Invited Talks
 Staff have delivered various international keynote addresses and invited presentations. For
 example, Darke has presented at various conferences across Latin America, including at the
 Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul, 2016 (‘Abolishing prisons inside out’), Federal

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University of Goiás, 2016 (‘Alternative models of incarceration’), and Mato Grosso do Sul
 Magistrates Association, 2014 (‘Recoverers helping Recoverers’). With Aresti he has delivered
 more than 50 invited talks across South America. Eldridge delivered the keynote paper for the
 three-day conference ‘Stadt Nach Acht’ (‘Night-time Economies and Re-Configuring the Night
 and Day’) at TU Berlin, November 2016, and also a plenary on ‘Nightlife, Integration and
 In/Exclusion' at the EUGEO Conference in Brussels. Stephanson addressed a Participation in
 Qualitative Research conference at the University of Essen, Germany 2017. Gillies has given
 keynotes and invited talks in France, Germany, Sweden and Chile. Pitcher has addressed
 events in Berlin, Helsinki, Reykjavik and New York.

 Awards and Prizes
 The esteemed nature of our work is evidenced through a number or prizes and awards. For
 example, Cetin and Jenkins won the British Education Research Association Prize in 2014.
 Cetin received the highly prestigious British Journal of Sociology Early Career Prize in 2017. In
 the same year Gillies won an award for outstanding scholarship from Sociological Review, one
 of the world’s foremost journals for sociological inquiry. Pitcher was also shortlisted for the
 SAGE prize for Innovation/Excellence.

 Key Publication and Research Roles
 Darke and Aresti are on the advisory body of the Prison Service Journal. Darke is co-editor of
 Carceral Communities, a key text on Latin American criminal justice containing contributions
 from the Inter-American Commissioner on Human Rights and Harvard Law Professor, James
 Cavallaro, and the globally-renowned French theorist, Loic Wacquant. Stephansen is consultant
 editor for Routledge Encyclopaedia of Citizen Media. Gillies is on the editorial board of the
 British Journal of Sociology of Education and has co-edited a themed section in the Journal of
 Social Policy and Society on Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs) featuring pieces from the
 Early Intervention Foundation, the Academy of Medical Sciences and leading international
 academics. Gillies has also produced a special section in the journal Families, Relationships
 and Society (2015) and special issues of Sociological Research Online (2017) and Family
 Issues (2018). Staff also regularly act as referees for a wide range of research publications and
 funders including for UKRI, the Leverhulme Trust, British Academy, the Wellcome Trust, the
 European Commission as well as various national funding bodies (e.g. the Czech Science
 Foundation)

 Media Engagement
 Members of the UoA are widely called upon to participate and are cited in media publications
 and public discussions. For example, Eldridge was featured on the BBC Radio 4 programme
 ‘Thinking Allowed’ in November 2018 discussing his work on the night time economy. Pitcher
 also appeared on ‘Thinking Allowed’ in 2014 and his work has been featured extensively in
 national and international news media, including Germany's Deutschlandfunk and Australia’s
 ABC Radio National. Most recently he has acted as a consultant for and has appeared in the
 BBC Radio 4 series Albion. He has also written for numerous blogs and websites, including The
 Guardian’s Comment is Free section. Gillies work has been widely cited in the print media,
 including the Guardian, Financial Times, New York Times and Times Educational Supplement.
 Darke’s work is widely drawn on in the media both nationally and internationally, for example in
 the International Journalist and Guardian. He has also written a piece for the Independent
 discussing the Brazilian prison system. Cetin and Jenkins acted as consultants for the Channel
 4 TV series Kingsland, advising on the representation of Kurdish/Turkish communities.




                                                                                            Page 13
