Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Bath Spa University
 Unit of assessment: 17 – Business and Management Studies
 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Unit Context and structure

 The Unit houses research in the disciplines of business and management, public service
 management, management education, and business-engaged sociology. It provides a
 disciplinarily inclusive research community for scholars who share a passion for improving
 organisations of different kinds through vigorous research which is practice-focused,
 contextualised, and impactful. The Unit comprises 12 SRR members: Dowson, Li, MacVean,
 Revilla, Salari, Wale, and Wang from Bath Business School (BBS), Barton, Booth, Gavin, and
 Smart from the Sociology and Criminology department in the School of Sciences, and Loon
 from Research and Enterprise. It is co-led by Li and Loon.
 The Centre for Leadership, Ethics and Professional Practice (CLEPP) is a vital part of the
 Unit’s structure, functioning as a mechanism that brings together interdisciplinary interests from
 Business and Management, Sociology, Psychology, and Education to stimulate research
 excellence and innovation. The CLEPP aims to further leverage its established networks of
 external stakeholders and strengthen practice-led, impactful research through collaboration
 with creative practitioners, supported by emerging researchers in the Unit. The Centre is co-led
 by MacVean, Loon, and Emira (from the Education Unit of Assessment, submitted to Education
 UoA).
 Research strategy
 The Unit’s research strategy focuses on contextually relevant, practical, and impactful research
 that contributes to the improvement of professional practice across the private, public, and third
 sectors at local, regional, national, and global levels. Our strategic aim is to strive for
 excellence in research which benefits organisations and individuals in their professional
 practice. The Unit’s strategic objectives are:
    1. focusing on research that is relevant and impactful to society;
    2. nurturing a strong ethos of research productivity;
    3. developing researcher careers at all stages.
 The Unit’s aim and objectives support the University’s research strategy for 2030 as follows.
 Firstly, the focus on context-relevant and impactful research builds upon the Unit’s diverse
 disciplinary expertise through collaborations with practitioners, including (not exclusively)
 entrepreneurs, industry professionals, educators, social care and health care professionals. For
 example, MacVean, Professor of Policing and Criminology, and Loon, whose expertise lies in
 human resource development, have collaborated in developing a doctoral programme focusing
 on professional practice for the Police and the Royal Navy. Through interdisciplinary
 collaboration, Loon and colleagues from Psychology successfully achieved funding from the
 Department for Work and Pensions (DWP).
 Barton’s research, especially around leadership and harm reduction, involves working
 alongside health and welfare providers as well as the NHS Leadership academy, again
 demonstrating interdisciplinarity and engagement with practice. Gavin’s work on prisoners in
 Ireland is another good example of cross-sectoral working. Both these researchers have had
 their work cited in national policy documents: Home Office (Barton) and Irish Justice Ministry
 (Gavin).
 The Unit also supports international collaborative research projects initiated by researchers in
 BBS. For example, Li is leading a project on social mechanisms of tourism development in
 China with researchers at the University of Surrey and Ningxia University, China. This research
Page 1
 aims to discover less observable social processes which could be modified to enhance the
 positive aspects of tourism development. Recently, five researchers in BBS initiated a joint
 research project, led by Li, on the impact of COVID-19 on Business students. Collaborating
 with colleagues at Ningxia University and Wuhan University of Science and Technology in
 China, and Sumy University and TSKNU in Ukraine, this research project aims to find out how
 the pandemic has influenced Business students’ perception, attitudes and emotions attached to
 their learning. Through a comparative analysis of accounts from Britain, China and Ukraine, the
 project will generate great insights into issues and challenges in Business Management
 education as a result of the pandemic. Such knowledge can contribute to the betterment of
 professional practice in Business Management education.
 Secondly, nurturing a strong ethos of research productivity, the Unit facilitates and supports
 research funding bids and the production and dissemination of research outputs. The Unit has
 researchers in the University’s internal Peer Review College to help with improving research
 grant applications as part of the process managed by the central Research Support Office
 (RSO). All researchers developing applications for external research funding work with the
 Research Bid Development Manager who supports them in identifying appropriate funding
 opportunities, provide feedback on the content of applications and support all budget and
 resource issues associated with bids.
 The Unit’s research grant income across the REF 2021 period reached GBP129,000. This
 income was generated from 4 projects: MacVean’s ‘Police Ethics and the Evaluation of the
 One Team’, Smart’s ‘Racialised Medicine’, and Loon’s ‘Preventing Attrition and Improving
 Mental Health in Social Care’ (interdisciplinary project with UoA 4). In addition to these
 successful funding bids, the Unit has been providing support and guidance on all other external
 fund applications. These include MacVean, Loon and Li’s bids to external funding organisations
 such as the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC), the British Academy (BA), British
 Academy of Management (BAM), the National Social Science Fund of China (NSSFC) and the
 Society for the Advancement of Management Studies / British Academy of Management
 Research.
 Striving for high quality research outputs, the Unit encourages and facilitates its researchers’
 scholarly activities. It recognises the value of scholarly engagement with the wider academic
 community in national and international conferences. The Unit provides financial means to
 enable international conference attendance for researchers who are presenting one or more
 papers.
 Thirdly, to meet the strategic objective of developing researcher careers at all stages, the Unit
 leverages its existing inclusive approach to ensure that all staff are given equal opportunities to
 develop their research. It recognises that senior researchers have both the ability and the
 desire to support researchers at all levels and gives them the opportunity to do so. The Unit
 also encourages and supports staff to undertake doctoral studies. 4 members of staff in the
 Unit are currently undertaking PhDs: two through Bath Spa University, and another two through
 other UK universities. (Further details are included in Section 2.)
 Impact strategy
 Our impact strategy is centred on bringing about productive and positive changes to the
 professional practice of our external partners as well as what we do internally. Three
 mechanisms have been introduced to ensure the vitality and sustainability of our impact: the
 establishment of CLEPP; the amplification of an ecosystem that self-reinforces activities and
 networks involving research, enterprise and skills development; and the implementation of a
 unit-level developmental programme to nurture emerging researchers and encourage research
 excellence.
 Firstly, CLEPP functions as an intersection that brings external members and UoA members
 together to create a vibrant and sustainable research community. It was described by an
 external participant at its launch as ‘a brilliant social network platform for professional practice
 … bringing Police services, Armed services, and higher education together’. The external
 members of CLEPP include Lord Evans of Weardale, former Director General of the British
 Security Service and present Chair of the Committee on Standards in Public Life, and
Page 2
 professionals from Submarine Service, Met Police, Avon and Somerset Police, Devon and
 Cornwall Police, Police Scotland, Herts Constabulary, Dorset Police, Royal Navy, Committee
 on Standards in Public Life, Royal Marines, Wiltshire Policy, Exeter University, Bath Education
 Trust, Dyfed Powys Police.
 CLEPP provides a highly visible hub that provides a fertile and supportive culture for both
 academics and practitioners to develop progressive ethical leadership and professional
 practice through activities, including reflective dialogue, research projects and consultancies,
 masterclasses and workshops, conferences, training and post-doctoral programmes. Drawing
 upon MacVean’s outstanding research on ethical framework for police forces and the Five
 Arms of the Naval Service, CLEPP houses an innovative PhD (by publication) programme that
 offers an interdisciplinary approach to practice-based research in themes of leadership,
 decision-making, ethics, and professional practice for the Police and the Royal Navy. The
 Centre provides a supportive, stimulating, and creative setting to ensure a rich learning
 environment through a 3-day Professional Practice Meets Academic module. (See Impact
 Case Study UoA17-1 EPP).
 Loon works with the Psychology department on the Healthier Outcomes at Work (HOW) Social
 Work project wherein he and the project team investigate the causes of sickness absence.
 (See Impact Case Study UoA17-2 HOW). This project received funding (GBP275,000) from the
 Health and Work Challenge Fund from the DWP’s Work and Health Unit, and is an important
 intervention in workplace wellbeing of individuals who work in the health and social care
 sectors in the UK. This research has had a significant impact on not only the wellbeing of the
 professionals in the sectors, but also the management and operations of UK’s health and social
 care organisations.
 Wale’s research on the disruptive effect of emergent genetic screening technology on existing
 regulatory frameworks has contributed to the development of prenatal screening policy, and the
 primary beneficiaries have been the subjects and users of new screening technologies in
 privately and publicly funded settings. Specifically, the work has directly impacted on the
 outputs of the Nuffield Council on Bioethics (NCOB), and indirectly on policy decisions arising
 from the implementation of genetic screening in the NHS Foetal Anomaly Screening
 programme (FASP).
 The Unit’s researchers utilise their expertise in business and management and their research
 capacities to facilitate applied research through BBS’ MBA Leadership and Arts Management
 programmes. MBA research projects are supervised by experienced academic staff, and in
 many cases aim to solve real business problems in the organisations in which students work,
 such as the museum sector in Bath and Bristol, National Trust, and Bath Festivals.
 Secondly, the Unit amplifies the ecosystem of stakeholders to access opportunities to apply
 existing research for impact, explore new research opportunities and identify new collaborative
 research partnerships. The BBS, which plays a central role in delivering the University’s
 Enterprise Strategy, is able to draw on its research expertise in leadership, innovation and
 support for family businesses and small-and-medium-sized firms, and staff professional
 practice. For example, colleagues in the School actively engage with the Swindon and Wiltshire
 Local Enterprise Partnership (SWLEP), bringing in positive impacts to this initiative through the
 means of an advisory panel and a funded Local Industrial Strategy secondment. Researchers
 in the Unit are currently contributing to the development of a bid to create a collaborative
 institution in Bath to develop skills for the future with the West of England Combined Authority.
 The partnership includes Bath University, Bath College, Bath and North East Somerset
 (BANES) Council, and a network of regional business partners.
 Barton, MacVean and Gavin are all currently involved in undertaking a series of evaluations of
 youth justice work for Wiltshire Police. The work involves working not only with the police but
 with a network of service providers including Wiltshire and Swindon councils and various youth
 justice organisations. In addition, Barton is part of a group working with Weston College and
 HM Prison service providing education for inmates at a variety of South West prisons.
 Thirdly, the Unit plays a vital role in creating a vibrant, open, and sustainable research
 environment through a series of monthly research seminars. Research-focused sessions have
Page 3
 included external speakers, for example: Professor Mark Saunders from the University of
 Birmingham and a Fellow of the British Academy of Management, who gave a talk on non-
 probability sampling; Anglia Ruskin University (on co-ideation); London School of Economics
 (on health issues at national level); University of Bath (on the use of visual analytics in
 management research); University of the West of England (on the impact of the digital
 economy), and Sumy State University, Ukraine. These sessions have enabled research-
 focused engagement with a wider academic community, cultivating future research ideas.
 The seminar series has also given researchers in the Unit the opportunity to present their
 research, to exchange ideas and to disseminate knowledge. For example, researchers
 attending the 'Behind the Barricades' workshop (on how to improve success rates in having
 papers accepted in high-ranking journals) organised by the British Academy of Management
 disseminated this to other staff members aiming to publish work in high ranking journals. The
 series have also housed a talk by a practitioner on his experience in establishing Edumove, a
 social enterprise that uses physically active games to deliver academic objectives while
 promoting health via increased physical activity. This talk has initiated some interesting
 discussion on research collaboration with business.
 Open access
 Within the institutional strategy as described in the REF5a Institutional Environment statement
 (IES 2.8.1), there is scope for the Unit to develop its own approach to open research, going
 beyond the minimum requirements of REF2021. To take the advantage of this flexibility, the
 Unit has concentrated on open access monographs and book chapters. The Unit supports the
 principle that scholarly monographs developed with public funds should be made publicly
 available. Within resource limitations, the Unit is taking practical steps to realise this principle:
 by increasing the number of book chapters made openly available by the Unit's authors,
 utilising 'green' open access publisher policies, and by Library investment in the development
 of sustainable funding models for open access monographs. Examples of book chapters made
 openly available include Booth, N (2020) 'Maintaining family ties: how family practices are
 renegotiated to promote mother-child contact'.The Library has pledged funds to the 'Knowledge
 Unlatched' project, a consortial initiative to ‘unlock’ monographs for open access publication,
 including a collection of economics titles. The Unit is able to monitor progress towards making
 its monographs openly accessible through the University’s annual Quality Review. The
 University is Compliant with the UK Concordat on Open Research Data, and 100% of the Unit's
 journal articles published in 2018 will be made openly accessible
 The Unit closely collaborates with the Library Repository Team. SRR staff are offered annual
 refreshers to maintain understanding of open research requirements and there are open
 access progress reports at the bi-monthly UoA Leaders’ meetings. The Unit's online staff
 profiles are automatically populated with publication data from the open access repository,
 incentivising academic engagement. The University’s annual reviews of output quality and REF
 SRR status will only consider outputs that have been recorded in the University’s open access
 repositories. The Library team proactively monitor the open access status of the Unit's outputs,
 requesting full text content where publisher policies allow. The BathSPAdata repository is
 available to host accompanying research data from the Unit's outputs, in keeping with the UK
 Concordat on Open Research Data. Further, following the University’s REF Code of Practice,
 the Unit of Assessment Leader holds the responsibility for ensuring that UoA colleagues “keep
 their details on ResearchSPAce [institutional open access repository] up to date”. Visibility of
 the Unit's outputs allows the Library Repository Team to gather full text or datasets, as
 appropriate, for open publication. The UoA Leader is able to monitor open research compliance
 by metrics provided through the University’s annual Quality Review.
 Research integrity
 The Unit supports a culture of research integrity by participating in the University Ethics Panel
 chaired by the Deputy Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Research), Loon, who is submitted in the Unit.
 Ethics in the Unit is led by an ethics lead, who is supported by between three to four named
 ethics reviewers. The ethics lead and the reviewers are part of the Ethics Review College,
 which not only encourages a community of practice to develop by drawing from researchers

Page 4
 across the University but it is also a centre of excellence that strives to instil a high ethical
 culture in the Unit’s research environment.
 Future strategy
 In 2014, the BBS had no staff with significant responsibility for research (with only one
 sociologist (Smart) submitted to REF 2014). The Unit now houses 12 SRRs (eight from
 Business and Management, and 4 from the School of Sciences), submitting 30 outputs, is the
 home to CLEPP and has increased grant activity. This progress made within such a short time
 frame is credited to the continuous institutional support at both the University and School
 levels, as well as individual researchers’ industriousness and passion in research.
 The Unit’s future strategy aligns with BSU’s 2030 plan (IES: 2.1.1) to deliver targeted growth to
 further our vitality and to extend the capacity of our established lines of research strength. For
 the next five years, the Unit aims to drive continuous development with the following strategic
 objectives on the agenda.

 1. To develop our research expertise sustainably
 While the development of research in leadership and professional ethics in the public sector
 (MacVean’s work) has been made as an institutional priority in the University, the Unit will
 consolidate ethically-guided practice in the public sector by embracing and supporting
 emerging related themes, namely Barton’s, Booth’s, Gavin’s and Wale’s work. It will further
 encourage interdisciplinary research that draws from the disciplines of business and
 management, for example Barton’s projects with Bristol City Council to promote BAME
 employees into senior management roles, and impactful initiatives resulted from
 interdisciplinary research, for example the convergence of MacVean’s and Loon’s research.
 The Unit will continue supporting research that is centred on business and management
 issues, notably human resource management (Li’s and Loon’s), entrepreneurship (Revilla’s),
 innovation and marketing (Salari’s), ethical tourism practice and tourist experience (Li’s), and
 business law (Wale’s), and that focuses on business and management education from an
 international and cross-cultural perspective (Li’s and Wang’s work). The Unit will also develop
 the emerging research area of arts and cultural management.


 2. To establish a Centre for Business Growth with Innovation and Sustainability
    (CBGIS)
 BBS was shortlisted for the Times Higher Education Business School of the Year Awards in
 2018 and again in 2020, clear recognition of the work by BBS academic staff. CBGIS will
 provide a platform for:
        the researchers (both SRRs and non-SRRs) within BBS to achieve synergies in
         collaborative, applied research projects;
        the BBS researchers to collaborate with researchers in other units in the University to
         develop interdisciplinary research;
        the BBS researchers to collaborate with researchers in other institutions in the UK and
         international higher education institutions to develop research projects in the areas of
         business and management and business and management education.
 It will host various initiatives, such as periodical research seminars and less formal regular
 social networking events to facilitate the exchange of information and ideas about research
 ideas, working projects, and networking events with external partners.


 3. To grow research funding
  The Unit’s external funding during the current REF period stands at GBP129,000. The
 research funding target is GBP250,000 by the end of 2023, drawing on regional, national and
 international collaborations. Part of this income target will be met through responsive mode
Page 5
 tenders and part through new initiatives drawing on existing business and government agency
 collaborations.


 4. To enhance the PhD community
 The Unit houses 20 PhD students in this REF period. Our PhD (by publication) programme has
 been very successful with 10 students enrolled. The target is to secure five to ten PhD students
 through to 2024. These students will be drawn from self-funded, industry, and government
 sponsored grants. The Unit is to engage with existing students on BBS’s postgraduate
 business and management courses to raise the awareness of opportunities for seeking a
 research degree at BSU in their near future through a yearly networking event wherein the
 students will meet with a number of researchers and PhD student representatives to share
 experience, ideas, and plans.


 Section 2. People
 Staffing strategy
 The Unit’s recruitment policy has been based on the broad needs of the Schools that relate to
 teaching, research and enterprise. Based on forecast in relation to student recruitment and
 strategic aspirations such as the REF and those related to the Knowledge Excellence
 Framework (KEF), the Schools endeavour to attract and recruit staff who are able to help the
 Schools (and in the context of REF, the Unit) in attaining its goals in cultivating an
 internationally excellent research environment. Schools have largely recruited new members
 who are eligible as Category A staff. It is the long-term goal of the Schools to recruit staff that
 excel in both research and teaching. Further, CLEPP promotes team management that
 involves providing opportunities to staff to participate and co-lead the centre. This approach not
 only gives opportunities to staff to explore and develop themselves but also facilitates career
 development planning.

 The BBS has a number of emerging researchers and their development is central to the future
 vitality of the Unit’s research. The prospects of the Unit’s research capabilities are bright, as
 there are four staff members in the BBS who are undertaking their PhDs. The School is
 committed to maximising the research potential of both new and established staff. Staff
 research priorities are set in their annual SDR process. Priorities for the Schools will be
 coordinated through the University’s Postgraduate Research Management Group, facilitating
 access to central funding and training opportunities. Staff will present their work biennially at
 the BBS' research colloquium, focused on both completed and developmental research. To
 enhance access and engagement with external expertise, the School will support a senior
 visiting scholar from 2022 to be embedded in CLEPP.

 Staff Development
 The Unit encourages a supportive culture that thrives on research ideas and skills. This is
 achieved through our inclusive staff development strategy that is supported at the University,
 School and Unit levels, taking into consideration staff whose career trajectory is in research as
 well as those that are enterprise and teaching-focused. All staff are required to undertake a
 staff development review (SDR) process that is intended for researchers and their line
 managers to identify and agree on development goals and mechanisms that allow researchers
 to attain those goals. Through the SDR process, researchers’ stage of career, personal
 aspirations and circumstances are taken into consideration. Line managers in the relevant
 Schools are closely guided by the RSO so that the SDR process for researchers aligns with the
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers.

 At the University level, the strategy is supported, via the RSO, through a programme of training
 events for research e.g. writing a research proposal, practice-based and practice-led research.
 The researchers in the Unit are encouraged to attend the programme. For example, Loon was

Page 6
 selected to attend an event on the development of public engagement capabilities organised by
 the National Coordinating Centre for Public Engagement (NCCPE) in 2018.

 Within the assessment period, staff have been provided opportunities to bid for internal funds
 to support their research. These funds could be used to buy researchers out of teaching,
 purchase equipment, travel and other eligible costs. These funds provide small but targeted
 support for the development of individual research capabilities and researchers in the Unit have
 been successful in winning several internal funding bids under these schemes including
 teaching relief and access to external training. For example, Li, Revilla and Salari have been
 awarded around £2,500 between the three of them in the last two years to support specific
 research projects. Researchers who receive training in writing effective tenders for external
 grants through School-level training workshops and University courses, also apply these skills
 in seeking internal funding.

 At the School-level, both Schools provide support via the researchers’ workload (with the
 support of the University). For example, MacVean and Loon, who are developing two
 respective impact case studies, are supported by their Schools in funding travel costs and their
 time is supported via their workload allocation. Research and related activities such as impact
 and public engagement are celebrated in the University’s Research Newsletter and given
 recognition at the University’s Research and Ethics Committee, the Enterprise Steering Group.

 Researchers are supported in attending national and international research conferences, with
 the University providing additional support if necessary, especially if an event is of strategic
 importance to the unit; for example, Dowson’s participation in workshops in the National
 Institute of Design in India. Li attended a workshop on publishing research run by the British
 Academic of Management and a one-day workshop on research methodology run by the
 University of Oxford.

 Where appropriate, both Schools and the University provide funding support and workload
 allocation for staff undertaking a PhD with the University. Such support ranges from covering
 the entire tuition fee to subsiding the fees. For other staff at the beginning of their research
 careers, the Schools continue to be flexible in their workloads such as providing a minimum of
 one day a week free from teaching commitments, to have one semester focused on teaching
 and the other more time to do research, and take advantage of repeat teaching of the same
 topic to reduce the need for preparation time.

 For early career researchers (ECRs) who have recently completed their doctorates, the
 Schools prioritise support for research outputs through the senior mentorship scheme, pairing
 staff with a senior research team that will support targeted outputs. This team will liaise with the
 Higher Degree Tutor and the Postgraduate Research Management Group to provide focused
 guidance and support for progressing research careers. ECRs are supported by the School’s
 Early Stage Researcher Programme, which is a series of training modules focused on
 development and training needs. The programme involves a series of half-day workshops and
 is aimed at equipping staff to better understand the context of research, knowledge transfer,
 and the funding environment, build confidence in designing and managing research projects
 and funding applications, and reflect on and plan potential areas for development and ways of
 being more effective. This complements the broader Researcher Development programme at
 university-level in which staff are encouraged to attend and which is aligned with Vitae
 objectives. That includes a range of sessions on career development for all stages of research
 careers. Staff are strongly encouraged to present their work through the BBS’ research
 seminar series which is open to all University staff. In addition, the BBS runs a weekly writing
 forum for ECRs which provides a supportive environment for collaborative ideas sharing and
 critical reflection. The BBS has a firm target to advance all ECRs to at least the next level of
 their careers by 2025, to oversee the completion of at least four doctorates for staff in post, and
 to progress eligible staff on to Reader or Professor level.


Page 7
 The Schools actively support the development of staff PhD supervision in partnership with the
 RSO. The Schools support applications for ethical review via procedures set by the University
 Ethics Panel. This is in addition to the Epigeum Research Integrity on-line training course
 which is required by all staff, Directors of Studies, and supervisors of undergraduate and
 postgraduate research modules. The capacity for PhD supervision at the Schools is being
 actively developed with four new supervisors enrolled in teams partnering with experienced
 Directors of Study, and undertaking training provided by the RSO. The Schools have strongly
 developed their supervisory capacity, including development of current staff. Topics currently
 being supervised cover information management, tourism development, financial literacy and
 innovation marketing.

 At the Unit level, we encourage informal mentorship between more senior researchers and
 emerging researchers, as well as doctoral students. For example, MacVean mentors Dowson,
 while Loon provides mentorship to Li and other emerging researchers. Loon mentors
 researchers and supports them by reviewing their proposals for the external grants. He has
 also involved other researchers e.g. Revilla, in the grant review process in the British Academy
 of Management, and the British Standards Institute to help them support future pathways to
 impact. The BBS also provides opportunities for staff to develop themselves by creating roles
 that enable them to take responsibility and have some degree of discretion to develop an area.
 For example, emerging researchers have taken lead roles in research and enterprise
 respectively in the BBS. In addition to developing their skills in research and enterprise,
 coordinating developmental activities for their colleagues helps to encourage collaboration
 between research and enterprise (including practice). The BBS' researcher development
 approach resulted in Loon being promoted, from the BBS, to Assistant Dean for Research and
 Innovation at faculty-level (in a former structure) and is now Deputy Pro-Vice-Chancellor
 (Research) at institutional level located in the RSO.

 The Unit as a whole (involving Schools and the University) provides opportunities for
 researchers to ideate new research topics by organising events where researchers meet
 practitioners who may not only be able to provide new ideas but also access to data for
 researchers, and to be co-researchers. We encourage staff to develop working relationships
 (from a research perspective) between other academic institutions, businesses, industry or
 public or third sector bodies. The standard procedure is via the University’s consultancy
 procedure that allows staff to work with external parties if there are fees involved. If the
 relationship is in-kind, these are arranged on a case-by-case basis usually involving
 consultation with the University’s Research and Ethics Committee, Enterprise Steering Group
 and the respective Head of School. The researchers’ time is negotiated and reflected in the
 workload. An example for formal arrangement is the secondment of an emerging researcher,
 who has been seconded to the South West Local Enterprise Partnership to lead the production
 of their Local Industrial Strategy.



 PhD students
 The Unit currently has 20 PhD students and two completions. The recruitment of students is
 undertaken in two main ways: active recruitment, for example, in China and via prospective
 students’ enquiries. The Unit actively seeks students via the University’s recruitment process
 and through industry links. An example of the latter includes MacVean’s links with the police
 that have resulted in the recruitment of PhD candidates. Student enquiries are the result of a
 dedicated webpage that is particular to the BBS developed by Loon that showcases
 supervisory interests to attract and inform prospective students with available staff expertise.
 All staff members have a personal page on the University’s website that links to its central
 ResearchSPAce repository, giving access to all research outputs available through open
 access.

 In terms of skill development and preparation for future employment, PhD students are given
 opportunities to teach in the Schools. Current PhD are provided opportunities to support the

Page 8
 teaching of the level 5 core module, for example, in the BBS. They are mentored by the module
 leaders involved and supported by their Directors of Studies to gain critical teaching skills to
 deliver highly interactive seminars. They are also provided opportunities to coordinate research
 workshops and seminars in CLEPP. Their involvements have not only helped them develop
 their organisational skills but also contributed to the cultivation of a research culture that is
 highly beneficial for their own academic development. All these efforts are on top of the
 University’s initiatives in working with the UK Council for Graduate Education in enhancing
 employability of doctoral students in industry.

 Equality and diversity
 Data related to protected characteristics can be found in the Equality & Diversity section of
 Institutional Environment Statement (IES 3.5). The Schools adopt the University’s human
 resource management policies with regards to study leave, flexible and remote working, which
 enables them to have a balance in ensuring that all staff across the University are treated
 equally but also at the same time enable Schools to have some degree of discretion to manage
 staff according to staff needs and circumstances, including caring responsibilities. As part of
 the SRR process, the Schools adhere to the University’s REF2021 Code of Practice that
 outlines matters in relation to equality and diversity and are addressed in the institutional
 statement. To increase awareness of equality and diversity issues all the Schools’ researchers
 undertake on-line training on Unconscious Bias and Diversity in the Workplace, which are
 covered in the University’s staff development programme. These are closely monitored by the
 Pro-Vice-Chancellor and the Deputy Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Research). In addition, the BBS also
 organises workshops facilitated by external speakers on diversity and inclusion that support all
 areas of academic life, including research.


 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Income
 The Unit has generated GBP129,000 in direct research grants since 2015, the majority of
 which are from MacVean and Loon. The income generated from MacVean’s contract research
 between 2015 and 2018 was from (i) the Avon and Somerset Constabulary on the
 development and application of the ethical framework for policing and (ii) the Royal Navy to
 review the ethical health and culture of the Five Arms of the Naval Service. Loon was a co-
 investigator in a team that was awarded GBP235,000 in 2018 from the Joint Work and Health
 Unit Challenge Fund Grant on a project titled “Healthier Outcomes at Work”, funded by the
 Department for Work and Pensions acting through the Joint Work and Health Unit (WHU).
 There has also been other success that was not recorded as part of the HESA return given the
 modest amounts (e.g. funds from EMLyon BBS and the Society for the Advancement of
 Management Studies via the Journal of Management Studies, University Forum for Human
 Resource Development Research, and British Standards Institute.

 While not research income, the BBS secured approximately GBP130,750 consultancy,
 enterprise and knowledge exchange income. This income was generated from two main
 sources; from the secondment of a staff member to the South West Local Enterprise
 Partnership to work on the Local Industrial Strategy and from a series of enterprise education
 programmes underpinned by the pedagogic research undertaken by research staff members
 such as Li, Wang and Loon.

 To substantially enhance the BBS' capacity for successful grant capture, the Unit has a clear
 strategy for enhancing staff success in grant capture built around four main initiatives:

 1. Strengthening our relationship with the uniformed service and continuously working with
    other BSU research centres to develop more interdisciplinary research.
 2. Leveraging synergies within BBS to develop research informed consultancy projects with
    the private sector and the third sector.


Page 9
 3. Improving project planning and facilitating bespoke training designed for research staff in
    project design and grant-writing, drawing on both in-house and external expertise, in
    particular, mentoring research staff for successful grant capture within the School and
    across the University (IES: 3.3.2).
 4. Supporting and encouraging staff to apply for funding to attend external grant training
    courses and events, through the British Academy of Management and other providers, with
    subsequent feedback workshops to train other staff.

 A four-fold approach will be taken to raise the level of research funding across the Unit,
 namely:

   i.     The BBS will use the seed-corn funding to support individual researchers (including
          ECRs) in building their project management expertise, targeting follow-up bids towards
          external research agencies and academic society funding, such as the ESCR, BA,
          BAM, and NSSFC.
   ii.    The Unit will seek to strengthen collaboration for consortium bids from within the
          University drawing on the experience of its successful ESRC, BBSRC and British
          Academy grant holders in the fields of psychology, geography and education.
          Development of joint funding bids will enable staff to build competence in grant
          applications to Research UK, EU Horizon and the BA.
  iii.    The development of international business development partnership bids to the
          Department for International Development and other agencies will be pursued through
          the Unit’s international connections with BBSs within the Global Academy of Liberal
          Arts (GALA) (IES: 4.2.4), in particular within Canada, South Africa, Australia, China,
          Namibia and Kenya. These institutions offer a route to development funding particularly
          in the areas of professional practice and social enterprise.
  iv.     The Unit plans to draw on its regional strengths within South West England to facilitate
          business development partnerships linked to Knowledge Exchange and Transfer
          activities connecting to innovation and entrepreneurship, particularly through Bath and
          North East Somerset council, the SWLEP building on the Industrial Strategy
          development secondment, and other stakeholder agencies. It will also, at the national
          level, seek research funds from commercial enterprises, non-profit companies, and
          partnerships such as Knowledge Transfer Partnerships and Innovation UK.

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 The Unit, in particular BBS and the School of Science, has a central location on the University’s
 main Newton Park campus, occupying a suite of rooms in the state-of-the-art Commons
 building, a recent flagship investment, and in Stanton and Corston buildings. The physical
 environment combines protected silent study space and collaborative open plan offices, and is
 close to allied disciplines in publishing, film and media. The University is also a partner with
 access to shared creative working spaces in the city centres of both Bath and Bristol, giving
 staff access to business workspaces and opportunities to engage with local entrepreneurs. The
 Corsham Court campus, where the RSO is based, provides an additional research space well
 suited for writing retreats and development workshops. All staff are provided with dedicated
 personal laptops with analytical software supported by information technology services,
 providing access to a full range of standard research computer programs. The School
 subscribes to key business databases including EuroMonitor Passport, Gale OneFile: News,
 Bloomsbury Fashion Central, LinkedIn Learning, and Business Source Complete. All staff
 have unlimited access to interlibrary loans and can utilise UK-wide repositories through the
 SCONUL Access scheme.

 Communication and information-sharing is supported by an on-line Research Hub, a central
 shared on-line portal covering School research activities, in particular research seminar videos.
 All School research outputs are coordinated through ResearchSpace, an open-access
 research repository maintained by Library services; this links directly to staff personal
 webpages. The specialist area of Fashion Marketing and Design Creativity also have access to
Page 10
 state-of-the-art research facilities for primary research through the University’s £5 million
 HEFCE-funded Artsworld Publishing and Media Production studios, and through the launch of
 the new multi-million Locksbrook Road development housing upgraded facilities for Design.

 The scholarly infrastructure for the UoA includes Library subscriptions to high impact and
 internationally excellent journals (SCImago international journal rankings), for example Journal
 of Financial Economics, Journal of Labor Economics, Review of Financial Studies, Journal of
 Human Resources, Academy of Management Journal, Academy of Management Review,
 Journal of Marketing. Library collections directly relevant to the UoA include more than 2,700
 journal subscriptions, 8,000 books and 1,700 e-books. The Library’s extensive digital
 collections include Euromonitor, the world's leading independent provider of strategic market
 research, and Business Source Complete.

 Library resources for the Unit are underpinned by a team of Subject Librarians, who provide
 subject-specific support and a defined point of contact for research enquiries. The University
 has heavily invested in its infrastructure for open research, with both an institutional repository,
 ResearchSPAce, and a research data repository, BathSPAdata. The repositories are
 supported by two Research Publications Librarians, who work proactively with the UoA to
 develop its open research profile. The Library’s Writing and Learning Centre supports an
 inclusive research culture through one-to-one writing support, social media workshops (within
 the Researcher Developer Programme), 'Journal Club' workshops in scholarly writing (for early
 stage PG researchers), and research methods training with software such as Nvivo, R, and
 SPSS.

 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 Key partnerships
 The partners we work with range from the uniform service, to the social and health care sector,
 to enterprises. Our key partners include Avon and Somerset Constabulary, UK Police Ethics
 Guidance Group, the Metropolitan Police, City of London Police, Royal Navy, the Catalan
 Regional Business Association and the Family Business Institute, the Research Centre for
 Governance, Leadership and Global Responsibility (Leeds Beckett University), the Growth
 Works, Corsham Town Council, Bath Royal Crescent Hotel, and Visit Bath.

 Collaboration and Contribution
 The researchers in the Unit have individually and collectively contributed to the research base,
 economy and society through consultancy/professional development initiatives, advisory and
 editorial memberships.

 1. Consultancy/professional development initiatives

 MacVean was awarded the Order British Empire for her contribution to the development of
 ethics in the police and Royal Navy in the 2020 New Year Honours List. She has worked
 across the five arms of the Naval Service and in particular supported the Chief of Staff at the
 Commando Training Centre Royal Marines to adopt best ethical practice across their training
 programmes. In addition, MacVean works with the Deputy Commander of 3 Commando
 Brigade in developing an ethical directive that will impact directly on 4850 men and women to
 improve transformational leadership through the championing of ethics as the golden thread
 that sets the conditions for trust, empowerment and maintaining the strongest of teams.
 MacVean is also a member of the NATO RTG 304 Working Group on Ethical Leadership,
 representing the Royal Navy.

 Drawing on her experience of operational ethical leadership and ethics, MacVean has
 delivered over 84 training workshops for police forces in England, Wales, Scotland and the

Page 11
 Police Service of Northern Ireland, and the Royal Navy. MacVean’s network with the Police
 and Royal Navy has resulted in the development of an innovative PhD training programme on
 leadership and ethics. Her work on ethical codes of conduct will be further strengthened,
 particularly with further engagement activities across organisations at the strategic level for
 continuing professional development programmes. Further, MacVean has been external
 examiner for PhD vivas of students at Huddersfield University and the University of
 Wolverhampton.

 The BBS has established a Creative Business Network (CBN) which brings together
 researchers from the Unit (including students) and business practitioners, providing a vibrant
 platform for professional development. The CBN is sponsored by the Institute of Directors. This
 is centred around bi-monthly evening networking events presenting current research, hosted
 both on the University campus and locations in Bath city centre. The network partners for
 presentations with the South West branch of the Institute of Directors, and the Chartered
 Institute of Marketing.

 The BBS is currently leading an exploratory research project investigating the impact of
 creative industries on the economy of the South West; this is as a partner project to the £6
 million Research England-funded three year project, the South West Creative Technology
 Network, in which the University is a partner. Academic links are being explored with partner
 organisations contributing to the student exchange programmes. These include business
 Schools in Sydney, Delhi, and Barcelona. Researchers from the Unit have established links
 with Bath and North East Somerset Council and provide annual student research project
 opportunities in human resource management. The BBS has long-standing links with Bath
 Festival and Visit Bath, which cover annual student research projects and link to the BBS’
 Festivals and Events degree pathway.

 At the international level, international collaborations will be developed through two networks:
 the BBS’ own international partner network and GALA (IES: 4.2.4). The BBS’ own network
 includes Sydney Business School, the National Institute of Design in Ahmedabad, and UAE
 School of Business. These Schools have research programmes closely aligned with the
 Business BBS’ focus on innovation, creativity and entrepreneurship. GALA’s global network
 involves partner institutions Stockholm Business School (Sweden), John Molson School of
 Business (Concordia, Canada), Wits Business School (South Africa) and the Queensland
 University of Technology (Australia), which have strong research programmes involving
 innovation and business development. Researchers in the Unit are actively engaged with
 events and activities of the networks, including an annual international conference, cross-
 institutional comparative research, and a range of visitor programmes. Some Unit members
 have been sponsored to visit their counterparts in Claremont Graduate University, California,
 University of Parma, Concordia University, University of Stockholm and the National Institute of
 Design in India. Emerging researchers and those who intend to have a career in research have
 started to develop research connections with a number of Ukrainian institutions, notably Taras
 Shevchenko National University in Kiev and Sumy University in Sumy Oblast. This initiative has
 a focus on financial literacy and is funded under the British Council/ EU Mobility Fund, and also
 involves collaboration with UK financial literacy initiatives from the UK government. In addition,
 researchers are working with a European sustainability group through Ca Foscari University
 (Venice), and are contributing to a European Union sustainable mobility plan. Researchers are
 also collaborating with the University of Leon (Mexico) on innovation and creativity through
 serious play.

 2. Advisory memberships

 MacVean has been Vice-Chair of Avon and Somerset Constabulary since its inception in 2014,
 working alongside Professor Papalois, a transplant surgeon at Imperial College, who has
 extensive experience and knowledge of medical ethics committees. MacVean is also Co-Chair
 of the UK Police Ethics Guidance Group which advises and steers national ethical issues for

Page 12
 the police. In addition, MacVean is Co-Chair of the South West Regional Ethics Committee.
 This Committee supports and shares good practice between the police forces within the South
 West and also includes the Metropolitan Police, City of London Police, the National Counter-
 terrorism Unit and British Transport Police. She is also a member of Devon and Cornwall and
 Dorset, Royal Marines, Her Majesty’s Inspectorate of Constabulary and Fire & Rescue
 Services’ ethics committees. In addition, she is one of four members of the Naval Service
 Leadership Academy. MacVean liaises with the Committee on Standards in Public Life in
 relation to ethics in policing and the Royal Navy.

 Loon is Co-Vice Chair of the British Academy of Management, co-leading the Management
 Knowledge and Education Committee. He previously served two years as council member,
 followed by another two years as Special Advisor. He founded the 'Strategic Capabilities and
 Human Resource Development’ stream at the University Forum for Human Resource
 Development annual conferences. He was commissioned by the Oxford Research
 Encyclopaedia published by Oxford University Press on the topic of “Critical Thinking in
 Business Research” (published 2020). He is a grant reviewer for the Swiss National Science
 Foundation.

 Loon was invited to be an academic advisor with the International Center for Enterprise
 Engagement (ICEE) based in New York and Texas, USA, which offers the first certification for
 the ISO 10018 Standard for People Involvement and Competence. He also has a book drawing
 on his research published by Kogan Page, the official publishers of the Chartered Institute of
 Personnel and Development (CIPD). This book is part of an essential reading list in a number
 of CIPD’s courses. Loon and his co-authors received in 2017 the Outstanding Papers Award
 for Excellence for their article titled “Combinative aspects of leadership style and emotional
 intelligence” published in the Leadership and Organisational Development Journal. Loon is on
 the Management Board of the South West Wales Doctoral Training Partnership 2, funded by
 the Arts and Humanities Research Council.

 Li was also invited to speak, as ‘a distinguished expert in education’, by the 4th Annual World
 Education Day Assembly 2020 in Dalian, China. Recently, she has been invited to join the
 Growth Works’ advisory group for its Innovate UK funded research and mentoring programme
 for students in 2021. Drawing on her expertise in developing students and professionals for the
 hospitality industry, Li is working with hotel general managers, colleagues from other Tourism
 and Hospitality Management Schools, and career counsellors to help the Growth Works to
 develop their mentoring programme that can best support students for their future career in the
 hospitality industry. Likewise, Dowson is a member of the advisory board of the Journal of
 Global Responsibility and is currently contributing to a forthcoming Routledge Handbook in the
 field of Organisation and Human Resource Management edited by Northumbria University.
 Wale is on the advisory board of the BU Law Review. In addition, Revilla is involved with
 Spanish networks related to family businesses and SME entrepreneurship, most actively
 through the Regional Association of Family Businesses, the Catalan Regional Business
 Association and the Family Business Institute.

 3. Editorial memberships

 MacVean is on the Editorial Advisory Board of the International Journal of Human Resource
 Development: Practice, Policy and Research. This is an emerging periodical and is the official
 research publication of the World Federation of People Management Associations. She is also
 a reviewer for Policing: A Journal of Policy and Practice, which serves the professional
 development of the police services and the study of policing. It aims to connect police
 practitioners and scholars by raising contemporary and critical issues in policing.

 Loon is a co-Editor-in-Chief of the International Journal of Human Resource Development:
 Practice, Policy and Research. The periodical is an emerging journal and is the official
 research publication of the World Federation of People Management Associations. He is also

Page 13
 sponsored by the European Association for People Management and University Forum for
 Human Resource Development (UFHRD).

 Li has been invited to join the editorial board of several journals: Journal of Contemporary
 Education, Education Journal, Progress in Human Computer Interaction, and International
 Journal of Modern Education Research.

 Smart is a peer reviewer for journals including Social Science and Medicine, Sociology of
 Health and Illness, Science as Culture, Science, Technology and Human Values, Journal of
 Medical Ethic, Biosocieties, and New Genetics and Society. Li has also reviewed research
 articles for the following journals: Management Learning, Human Resource Development
 Quarterly, Tourism Review, and Journal of Hospitality Management.




Page 14
