Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: The University of Edinburgh

 Unit of Assessment: 29 - Classics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Since REF2014, the Classics Unit of Assessment (UoA) at Edinburgh has been strategically
 transformed, almost doubling its size to a unit of 40.6 FTE that covers all of the core areas of the
 discipline: Greek and Latin literature and thought, Greek and Roman history and Mediterranean
 archaeology. Our research is characterised by a strong interdisciplinary focus (connecting
 with research notably in cognitive science, politics, law, Islamic and Medieval studies,
 geosciences and engineering) and an expansive outlook on the discipline that embraces Late
 Antiquity, Byzantium, and the Medieval Latin world, as well as the whole breadth of
 Mediterranean archaeology (spanning Prehistoric, Bronze Age and Egyptian, Greek and Roman,
 through to Late-Antique and Byzantine). Accelerating a long-term trajectory of expansion, we
 have appointed to nine new permanent posts in Classics, and integrated eight colleagues from
 Archaeology whose work is closely aligned with ours. This expansion has been underpinned by
 a twelvefold increase in research funding, from just over £500k research expenditure in
 2008-13 (and £200k in 2001-7), to £6.1m 2014-20. The unit’s growth, its dynamic research
 culture and its cutting-edge research projects (including three ERC grants) have also led to
 remarkable expansion in our postdoctoral and PhD communities: we have hosted 18
 postdoctoral research fellows and 73 students have been awarded PhDs during the current REF
 period (15 during the previous REF period – a fivefold increase). PhD students who started in
 the current census period have received 40 scholarships (17 in the previous REF period).


 1.1 Research and impact strategy


 Our key ambitions during the REF cycle have been to consolidate Edinburgh as one of the
 largest hubs in the UK for the study of the ancient world, to promote an inclusive research
 culture that fosters synergies between established and emerging academics, and to enable and
 enhance scholarly engagement with communities of citizens in Edinburgh and the wider world.
 We have acted upon these ambitions by pursuing four main strategic goals:


 (1) To continue the expansion of our staff base through the recruitment of ‘rising stars’ both in
 areas of particular strength (Greek and Roman legal and economic history; Greek and Late
 Antique literature; Greek, Bronze Age and Iron Age Archaeology) and with the aim of widening
 our disciplinary coverage to include Egyptian, Greek and Late Antique archaeology, Byzantine
 Studies, and Medieval Latin. Given the profile of our submission, we have placed particular




                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 emphasis on integration of and support for large numbers of early career staff and research
 students (Sections 2.1 and 2.2).


 (2) To build a vibrant research community, striking a balance between the strategic promotion
 of specific areas of research (such as Late Antique and Byzantine studies, Mediterranean
 archaeology and social, economic and institutional history) and supporting independent
 intellectual trajectories. This has been achieved by fostering and supporting research clusters
 aligned with our strategic goals but also responding flexibly and organically to emerging areas of
 excellence (Section 1.2).


 (3) To capitalise on staff expansion and new research synergies to achieve unprecedented
 success in attracting research funding, through the introduction of a systematic approach to
 supporting grants (Section 3.1).


 (4) To ensure our research contributes to public understanding and has a significant impact on
 public debate and cultural heritage, through embedding impact at all stages of research design,
 and supporting public engagement (Section 1.3).


 1.2 Research clusters


 Our strategy to build a vibrant research community aims to strike a balance between
 consolidating existing and emerging areas of excellence and supporting independent intellectual
 trajectories. For this purpose, our support structure has remained flexible in fostering both open-
 ended networks and more institutionalised research groups, with dedicated funding for seminar
 series, ad hoc workshops, and wider support for developing collaborative research projects and
 securing external funding (see Section 3). This arrangement means that staff and PhD students
 can find multiple interconnected intellectual homes and networks for dialogue and support.
 Within this framework, our research activities are best described as organised around four
 research clusters:


 Greek studies, emotions and cognitive Classics (seven staff)
 The development and expansion of Greek studies as a key hub for interdisciplinary research in
 Cognitive Classics has been a major focus of the unit during this REF period. Cutting-edge
 interdisciplinary research by Cairns on emotions and cognition has led to the ‘History of
 Distributed Cognition’ AHRC project (£571.9k), with researchers from Classics, Philosophy
 and Cognitive Science, and to the publication of the Edinburgh History of Distributed Cognition
 (EUP). This project was designed with a strong impact agenda and has resulted in follow-up



                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 AHRC funding (£80k) for the project ‘The Art of Distributed Cognition’, with a contemporary art
 exhibition, ‘The Extended Mind’, developed with one of Scotland’s leading galleries, the Talbot
 Rice Gallery, with related events, workshops and resources (this is one of our Impact Case
 Studies). This strand of research has also led to further large-scale international collaborations
 on distributed cognition and the history of emotions, with the establishment of the Leverhulme
 International Research Network (£99.3k) ‘Emotions through Time: From Antiquity to Byzantium’,
 of the ACLS project (£10.3k) ‘Comparative Perspectives on Chinese Culture and Society’, and of
 the BA/Leverhulme (£9.9k) and ACLS ($15k) project ‘In the Mind, in the Body and in the World’.
 These projects have also led to the development of a long-term collaboration with Virág – a
 scholar of Chinese philosophy and emotions – which has been consolidated with Gaul’s and
 Virág’s joint ERC project ‘Classicising Learning in Medieval Imperial Systems’ (see below).
 Another area of Greek studies notable for its cutting-edge interdisciplinary focus is L.G.
 Canevaro’s work on New Materialism and Greek literature (funded by the Leverhulme Trust,
 £87k), which has resulted in a first programmatic monograph and in the establishment of the
 new EUP series ‘Ancient Cultures, New Materialisms’.


 Greek and Roman social, institutional and legal history (15 staff)
 This has been another area of significant growth. M. Canevaro used a Philip Leverhulme Prize
 (£100k) to set up a research concentration on Greek institutional history, with a number of
 interdisciplinary events and publications (including on the New Institutionalisms and on
 Constitutionalism, with political scientists and legal scholars). This led to the establishment,
 together with Lewis, of the new EUP series ‘New Approaches in Greek Institutional History’.
 Lewis ran a Leverhulme-funded project on non-agricultural labour in ancient Athens (£87k) and
 has established Edinburgh as a hub for the study of Greek slavery with his ground-breaking
 monograph Greek Slave Systems in their Eastern Mediterranean Context, c.800-146 BC and
 with the RSE-funded project ‘Slavery and Honour in the Ancient Greek World’ (joint with Cairns
 and M. Canevaro, £9.1k). These research strands productively combine with the focus on
 Cognitive Classics and emotions (see above) in the ERC project on ‘Honour in Classical’
 Greece (run by Cairns and M. Canevaro, £1.46m): this brings together researchers in Classics,
 Sociology, Philosophy, Cognitive Science and Epidemiology to reassess Greek honour in
 relation to modern notions of respect, dignity and recognition, and to explore the centrality of
 honour in ancient Greek ethics, politics and society. In Roman history, Roth has combined her
 specialisms in social and legal history to make Edinburgh one of top centres for the study of
 Roman slavery (attracting large numbers of PhD students specialising in this subject – eight
 during the current census period – and creating the new EUP series ‘Edinburgh Studies in
 Ancient Slavery’). With Lewis, she has made Edinburgh an international hub for the study of
 ancient slavery more widely. Roth’s Leverhulme project The Child Face of Roman Slavery



                                                                                                    Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (£146.2k), covering the half millennium from c. 200 BC to AD 300 and examining the full
 geographical extent of the Roman empire, shows that Roman slavery was characterised by child
 slavery to a much greater extent than previously recognised. Our expertise in Greek and Roman
 social, legal and institutional history is further strengthened by the research of Czajkowski and
 Eckhardt into the interactions of Greek and Roman legal and social/political institutions with
 those of the ancient Near-East, particularly Judaea. This has produced the important books
 Law in the Roman Provinces (OUP) and Juden, Christen und Vereine im Römischen Reich (De
 Gruyter), and received funding from the Israel Institute of Advanced Studies (£25k).


 Late-Antique and Byzantine studies (12 staff)
 Over the REF period, Edinburgh has further cemented its status as one of the UK’s largest hubs
 for the study of Late Antiquity, creating a new cluster of experts in Byzantine history, culture
 and archaeology (Gaul, Stouraitis and Crow in Classics, Bouras-Vallianatos in History – see
 Section 2.1 for how this cluster was created and resourced) to complement our existing
 expertise in Late Antiquity (further strengthened with the appointment of Stover). This
 remarkable concentration of scholars has now been consolidated in a Late Antique and
 Byzantine Studies Research Group, with its own calendar of research seminars and activities,
 and has been successful in fostering synergies and ground-breaking collaborative research
 projects, as well as in sponsoring landmark editorial initiatives. Kelly and Pelttari are jointly
 editing both the Cambridge History of Later Latin Literature (funded by a BA/Leverhulme grant,
 £9.7k) and the Cambridge Dictionary of Later Latin Literature. They have also founded and co-
 edit the EUP series ‘Edinburgh Studies in Later Latin Literature’. Stover is editing the Oxford
 Guide to the Transmission of the Latin Classics (a more comprehensive replacement for Texts
 and Transmission: A Survey of the Latin Classics). Gaul and Stouraitis are founders and editors
 of the EUP series ‘Edinburgh Byzantine Studies’. Gaul is editing the Oxford Handbook of Greek
 Palaeography and authoring the Cambridge Guide to Greek Palaeography. Kelly also leads
 (with van Waarden) the Sidonius Apollinaris for the 21 st Century Leverhulme International
 Research Network (£63.3k) which has produced the Edinburgh Companion to Sidonius
 Apollinaris and is producing the first complete commentary of Sidonius’ oeuvre (funded by
 another BA/Leverhulme grant, £8.9k). Kelly has received BA funding (£120.9k) for textual work
 on Ammianus Marcellinus which will lead to a new Oxford Classical Text. Grig has received BA
 funding for a project on Popular Culture and the End of Antiquity in Southern Gaul (£80k). The
 Byzantine section of this research cluster has, moreover, strong links with Greek studies (see
 above): Gaul’s appointment to a newly endowed A.G. Leventis Chair of Byzantine Studies
 (£670k) stems from the existing A.G. Leventis Visiting Chair of Greek (see Section 2.1 and 3.2),
 and Gaul is leading the ERC project ‘Classicising Learning in Medieval Imperial Systems:
 Cross-cultural Approaches to Byzantine Paideia and Tang/Song Xue’ jointly with Virág (£1.33m).



                                                                                                     Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 This ground-breaking project seeks to examine, in tandem, the conscious revival and
 subsequent dialectics of classicising learning in middle and later Byzantium (c.800–1350) and
 Tang/Song China (618–1279).


 Mediterranean archaeology (15 staff)
 This is a growing focus of the unit, marked by pioneering methodological approaches and
 particular attention to areas traditionally neglected in Classics. A major strand of research
 focuses on materials, construction and architecture. Two Leverhulme-funded projects led by
 Classical archaeologists are in collaboration with colleagues in the School of Engineering:
 Crow’s ‘Water Supply of Byzantine Constantinople’ (£250.8k) and Russell’s ‘Earthen Empire:
 Earth and Turf Building in the Roman North-West' (£492k). The latter uses geotechnical testing
 to explore the properties of ancient construction and also contributes historically tested data to
 the recent boom in research on earth building. Romankiewicz’s Leverhulme-funded ‘Building
 Ancient Lives’ project (£87k) applied architectural theory and anthropological approaches to
 consider lived architectural realities in the Iron Age. Architectural expertise in the unit now
 ranges from Leighton’s and Robin’s work on Italian prehistory and the Etruscans, to Barringer’s
 work on Greek architecture, especially visible in her The Art and Archaeology of Ancient Greece
 (CUP), Slawisch’s research on Ionia, Russell’s on the Roman period, and Blanke’s and Crow’s
 on Late-Antique and Byzantine building. Beyond buildings, the modelling of large-scale and
 long-term developments in society and conflict, as well as its associated infrastructure, are
 core themes in Schoop’s project on early Anatolia (Carnegie Trust: £7.3k), Rowland’s on the Nile
 Delta (British Council: £131.8k), Fernández-Götz’s work on the pre-Roman Iron Age and
 Caesar’s conquests of NW Europe (Philip Leverhulme Prize: £100k), and Sauer’s ERC project
 ‘Persia and its Neighbours’ (£1.1m), which sheds new light on the military installations of the
 Sasanian empire. This range of approaches is matched by the geographic scope of fieldwork
 directed by our archaeologists, from Scotland (Fernández-Götz, Romankiewicz, Russell), to
 Spain (Fernández-Götz), Tunisia (Dufton, Russell), Italy (Leighton, Robin, Russell), Croatia
 (Fernández-Götz), Greece (Crow), Turkey (Crow, Russell, Slawisch, Schoop), Egypt (Blanke,
 Rowland), Jordan (Blanke), Georgia, Oman and Iran (Sauer). Much of this fieldwork involves
 Edinburgh students and has community engagement programmes embedded within it, as
 demonstrated by Romankiewicz’s work in Scotland, Rowland’s in Egypt and Russell’s in Italy –
 these are at the basis of three of our impact case-studies.


 1.3 Knowledge exchange and impact


 Our knowledge exchange and impact strategy aims to ensure our research makes a significant
 contribution to public understanding and debate, with a particular focus on the impact



                                                                                                   Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 potential of research in material culture on cultural heritage institutions (such as museums) and
 local communities. To deliver this strategy, we have pursued two main interconnected aims over
 the REF period: (i) to encourage and facilitate the embedding of impact at all stages of research
 design and planning; (ii) to support all research staff in engaging with impact. We have widened
 the remit and responsibilities of the Deputy Director of Research for KEI, whose role is to
 coordinate impact policy, and created dedicated support for KEI planning and activities in the
 newly expanded Research, Impact and Knowledge Exchange Office. Prominent outcomes have
 been ring-fenced internal funding for specific impact and knowledge exchange initiatives (at least
 £3k/year), as well as the creation of annual Impact Champions, who receive dedicated
 administrative support and additional funding to design and pursue their impact agendas (two of
 our Impact Case Study authors – Russell and Rowland – have been Impact Champions).


 This deeper incorporation of impact into our research agenda has allowed us to forge a distinct
 impact profile and invest our resources and efforts accordingly. In particular we have built on
 past success in fostering impact activities and collaborations concerned with material culture
 and archaeology. These now account for three of our four Impact Case Studies:
 Romankiewicz’s impact activities have spread awareness of the sustainability of prehistoric
 buildings, and co-building projects in the Netherlands and Scotland have translated her dynamic
 concepts on prehistoric architectures into modern low-carbon construction; Rowland has actively
 contributed to the conservation of prehistoric and early historic Egyptian heritage, raising
 institutional awareness of its importance (with training and activities for Egyptian children as well
 as professional delegates) and leading efforts for enhancing the government’s ability to manage
 and preserve it; Russell’s activities around the excavation of the Roman city of Aeclanum (e.g.
 public events attracting 700 local attendants in the first year only, and 300 children annually
 taking part in open days about archaeological methods and life in a Roman city) have changed
 the way Roman heritage in the region is perceived, revitalising the site in terms of visitor
 numbers and media attention, and resulting in the funding and planned construction of a new
 museum.


 This attention to material culture, and our success in building collaborations with museums and
 cultural institutions, has also come to characterise our non-archaeological impact activities,
 particularly Cairns’ work on distributed cognition, which has changed curators’ thinking about the
 role of galleries and museums in human cognition and shifted public perception of historical
 artefacts. For example, lectures and seminars recorded in a day-long event at the National
 Museum of Scotland on ‘Thinking with Things’ have been made available on a dedicated
 website which has hosted over 40,000 sessions; and ‘The Extended Mind’ exhibition organised
 in collaboration with the Talbot Rice Gallery was attended by around 3,500 visitors over four



                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 months. This strategic focus is now on full display in externally funded research projects such as
 Russell’s Leverhulme, Cairns’ and Anderson’s AHRC, and Cairns’ and M. Canevaro’s ERC
 projects, with impact tightly integrated within the overall design.


 1.4 Research ethics and open research


 The unit is committed to the highest ethical standards in the planning, conduct and
 dissemination of research. The School’s Research Ethics Committee (created in 2015), now
 chaired by a newly created (2018) School Ethics Officer, ensures that all research by staff or
 PhD students undergoes a research ethics assessment before it begins, and advises on all
 issues relating to research ethics. Training is provided for both groups and we have agreed and
 published a School Research Ethics and Integrity Policy (which reflects the benchmarks set by
 various professional and statutory bodies e.g. about trade in antiquities, work with human
 participants, research on human remains) and a Statement of Principles to provide guidelines for
 the conduct of ethical research. Openness is prioritised within this Statement and we support the
 ethical goal of moving towards open access for scholarly publication as well as open data. The
 College of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences (CAHSS) has devised a comprehensive Open
 Research strategy, with input from the School of History, Classics and Archaeology, and both
 College and School have put in place resources, training and support for fostering awareness
 and compliance in this area, at the same time enabling the unit to respond astutely to the
 changing landscape of open access. The result of this strategy has been a substantial raising of
 awareness of Open Access issues since 2014. The dedicated assistance available locally, with a
 Research, Impact and Knowledge Exchange Data Coordinator providing one-to-one advice and
 training and information on publisher open access policies, copyright issues and support for gold
 open access, has resulted in the unit achieving a 96% compliance rate with the REF open
 access guidelines. Edinburgh’s classicists have also been leading in discussions around open
 research, data and methods, through key editorial roles and membership of editorial boards,
 membership of professional bodies and peer review colleges within the discipline (Section 4).
 Most prominently, Cairns, as editor of the Journal of Hellenic Studies and Chair of the Classical
 Association Journals Board, has made a sustained contribution to the debate on open access.


 1.5 Future strategic aims and goals


 Our overall aim over the next REF cycle is to sustain world-leading research across our current
 chronological, geographical and methodological range; consolidate new research areas that are
 emerging due to recent expansion; and capitalise on our enlarged staff base to strengthen




                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 synergies and achieve further success in attracting research funding. Our more specific priorities
 are:

    -   to build some of our major research projects (e.g. the ERC project ‘Honour in Classical
        Greece’ and the Leverhulme projects on Roman slavery and on building techniques) into
        established research networks and centres, making them sustainable beyond the
        lifespan of the grants. These projects have made Edinburgh an international research
        hub in these areas, attracting a large number of visiting scholars and PhDs. We want to
        capitalise on this and make them a key driver in our strategy for further synergies and
        expansion, as well as for KEI and impact activities;

    -   to capitalise on our strong concentration of researchers working on the late-Antique and
        Medieval Mediterranean world and Islamic history to establish the Centre of Late
        Antique, Islamic and Byzantine Studies as one of the world’s leading interdisciplinary
        communities working in these areas;

    -   to build on our success in supporting early-career researchers and strengthen the
        support available for other groups – particularly for mid-career staff, who face
        considerable challenges in terms of workload, and have been disproportionately affected
        by the COVID-19 pandemic. With much-increased staff numbers and excellent outcomes
        in terms of career progression, mid-career staff will soon become the key constituency
        for the excellence of our unit;

    -   to protect and expand the international dimension of our research, against the
        challenges posed e.g. by Brexit, by maintaining, restructuring and investing in existing
        student and staff exchanges (beyond Erasmus+) and through deep partnerships with
        European universities (e.g. by building on institution-wide partnerships such as with the
        University of Copenhagen and the members of the UNA Europa consortium);

    -   to make further progress in redressing gender imbalances in our staff, at the same
        time fostering the diversity of our unit by creating an inclusive research environment
        across socioeconomic and ethnic lines (Section 2.3 for what we have achieved so far).


 2. People


 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development


 The Classics UoA REF2021 submission comprises 41 staff (40.6 FTE), an increase of 80%
 since our REF2014 submission of 22.5 FTE. This includes nine new permanent posts in
 Classics, as well as the integration of eight colleagues from Archaeology whose work is closely
 aligned with ours. This has been the result of a conscious strategy to enlarge our staff base


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 and to increase the proportion of open-ended appointments, at the same time striving to
 achieve gender balance in recruitment (Section 2.3).


 To achieve this, first of all, we have strategically capitalised on major research funding
 success (Section 3.1): in addition to 10 post-doctoral positions that originated from this funding
 (six as independent research fellows, four as research assistants), we chose not to appoint
 strictly like-for-like five-year temporary replacements for the leads of our ERC grants, but instead
 made permanent appointments in cognate areas based on need and strategic expansion. We
 appointed a permanent Byzantine historian (Stouraitis) rather than a temporary replacement for
 Gaul; and a Greek economic historian (Lewis) and a Greek Archaeologist (Slawisch) rather than
 temporary replacements for Cairns and M. Canevaro.


 Second, we have made the biennial A.G. Leventis Visiting Professorship of Greek central to
 our drive for expansion: the appointment of international research stars as A. G. Leventis Visiting
 Professors, and the connected large international conferences, have usually preceded strategic
 expansion in the relevant areas. Margaret Alexiou’s tenure (in 2013) raised Edinburgh Classics’
 profile in anticipation of the expansion in Byzantine studies (see below); as did Josiah Ober’s in
 Greek history, and François Lissarrague’s in Greek archaeology.


 This strategy has paid off and we have succeeded in attracting early-career researchers from
 some of the leading institutions in the UK (including Cambridge, Durham, Nottingham, Oxford, St
 Andrews), continental Europe (including CEU, Freiburg, Münster, Scuola Normale Superiore,
 Vienna) and the US (including Cornell, Harvard). During the census period we have appointed
 13 new colleagues to open-ended positions: Blanke, L.G. Canevaro, Czajkowski, Eckhardt,
 Gaul, Lewis, Pelttari, Rowland, Rawles, Robin, Slawisch, Stouraitis, Stover. Four are
 replacements for colleagues who retired or moved elsewhere, but nine were appointed to
 entirely new posts (on top of the six new posts created in 2008-2013). These new
 appointments have further strengthened particularly successful research areas as well as
 opening new clusters of research: Rawles and L.G. Canevaro have reinforced our Greek
 literature cluster, with a particular focus on Archaic Greek literature, but have also added
 expertise on the Hellenistic period, comparative literature, and reception; Lewis and Eckhardt
 have strengthened our Greek History cluster with expertise in economic history and Hellenistic
 history, at the intersection with Near-Eastern studies; Czajkowski has strengthened our Near-
 Eastern research focus, as well as our Roman History contingent; Pelttari and Stover have
 strengthened our Late-Antique concentration and extended our coverage to Medieval Latin; Gaul
 and Stouraitis have created a new Byzantine research focus, with significant links to Late-
 Antique studies, Greek studies and Late-Antique and Byzantine Archaeology; Slawisch and



                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Blanke both contribute to creating critical mass in Classical Archaeology, and produce synergies
 with Greek, Late-Antique and Byzantine history; Rowland provides new expertise in Egyptian
 Archaeology; Robin strengthens the Archaeology of the central Mediterranean, and provides
 new expertise in Neolithic Archaeology.


 One example can illustrate our strategy at work. Margaret Alexiou’s tenure as A.G. Leventis
 Professor at the end of 2013 launched Edinburgh as a centre for Byzantine studies, and the
 success of her stay, the international conference she organised, and the establishment by
 Cairns of a Leverhulme International Network on emotions in Byzantium, were instrumental in
 Edinburgh securing start-up funding from the A. G. Leventis Foundation (£670k) for the
 appointment of a new permanent A.G. Leventis Chair of Byzantine Studies. Gaul, once
 appointed to the chair, was encouraged to expand Byzantine studies in Edinburgh, and
 supported in applying for research funding, resulting in an ERC grant (£1.33m). This, in turn, led
 to the appointment in Classics of one senior (Virág) and two postdoctoral (Spingou,
 Höckelmann) researchers, and a new permanent Byzantinist (Stouraitis). Next, the History
 department appointed another Byzantinist (Bouras-Vallianatos) on the strength of funding from
 the Welcome Trust (£330k). The refoundation and strengthening of Byzantine studies in
 Edinburgh, moreover, created further synergies with the Late Antiquity research cluster, which
 ultimately justified further strategic expansion with the appointment of a permanent Medieval
 Latinist (Stover) and a Late-Antique archaeologist (Blanke).


 With such an enlarged staff base, our priorities have further focused on supporting the
 professional development of staff – particularly the large proportion of early-career staff. First of
 all, we have rolled out enhanced support for newly appointed staff in developing an
 independent research portfolio and achieving success with research funding (see below): all
 early-career staff receive dedicated research mentoring from senior colleagues as well as a
 new-staff reduction of one third in teaching and administration duties for the first year after
 appointment. The result has been that 10 of our recent permanent appointments secured
 significant funding for either individual research or collaborative projects within four years of their
 appointment (M. Canevaro, Eckhardt, Fernández-Götz, Gaul, Gray, Lewis, Maciver, Pelttari,
 Rowland, Russell). This has also significantly facilitated career progression, with several
 colleagues reaching Grades 9 and even 10 within just a few years of appointment (see below).


 The support and development of staff is secured through a three-tier system that involves:

 (1) Strategic line-management: appraisals of all staff (Annual Reviews) are conducted by the
 Head of Classics or the Head of School, setting aims and objectives and advising on promotion
 opportunities. The line manager also makes sure that teaching and administrative duties are


                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 fairly spread, to maximise research time for all. The research capacity of new lecturers (including
 fixed-term staff) is protected by reducing their teaching and administrative load by one third in
 the first year.

 (2) Dedicated research support: a separate system of research interviews conducted by senior
 colleagues, as well as the assignment to all early-career staff of a Research Mentor to advise on
 research and publication plans, external funding and research leave applications. Funding is
 available annually for conference attendance (£1,000 per person), research travel (£500 per
 person), publication costs (£500 per person), and conference organisation (£1,000 per person):
 all staff therefore have access to up to £3,000 of internal research funding annually. In the spring
 and summer of 2020, with the COVID-19 pandemic making travel and many research activities
 impossible, funds were redirected to cover costs for Research Assistants and for publication
 (e.g. proofreading, translation, editing). This is supplemented by the A.G. Leventis Fund, which
 supports publication costs, and a further fund to respond quickly to research opportunities
 (whether attending conferences or organising workshops at short notice).

 (3) Training and support opportunities at University and CAHSS level, which include the
 Postgraduate Certificate of Academic Practice as well as a wide range of courses and training
 sessions run by the Institute of Academic Development; a Research Leaders Programme to
 which the School can nominate staff members; a Media Talent Programme training staff for
 impact and media engagement, complemented by a range of KEI funding opportunities at
 CAHSS level, and the Impact Champion Programme at School level. The University, moreover,
 promotes a range of health and wellbeing activities, and its Counselling Services offer
 workshops e.g. on mindfulness, confidence and managing anxiety, pressure and time.


 Our research leave provision is very generous: staff on open-ended contracts may apply for
 one semester’s research leave after five semesters’ teaching. Time on fixed-term contracts is
 credited upon transfer to an open-ended contract, as is time on parental leave (see also Section
 2.3).


 The success of our mechanisms and policies for supporting staff is shown by the fact that 15
 promotions were granted during the census period: Kelly and M. Canevaro were promoted to
 personal chairs; M. Canevaro (previously), Fernández-Götz and Roth to Reader; Czajkowski,
 Grig, Maciver, O’Rourke, Pelttari, Robin, Rowland, Russell, Stover and Trépanier to Senior
 Lecturer. Notably, seven out of 10 of those who were promoted to Senior Lecturer or Reader
 received their promotion within five years of their appointment.


 Our research environment is made even more vibrant by the number of Research Fellows and
 Postdoctoral Fellows. As in the previous census period, some Research Fellows (6) have held


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 internally funded career-development fellowships – research fellowships with a small component
 of teaching – (Lauritsen, J. Lewis, D. Lewis, Morton twice, Holton, Jeffery), and others (six)
 externally-funded independent research fellowships (D. Lewis, L.G. Canevaro, Romankiewicz,
 Harriman, De Groot: Leverhulme ECF; Guidetti: Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowship). All of
 these are supported by a research mentor as well as through access to the same research
 resources as permanent staff. An important development during the REF2021 period is that, in
 addition to the previous two categories of independent research fellows, another six independent
 research fellows have been appointed as team members within externally funded research
 projects (Mantzouranis, Zaccarini, Spingou, Höckelmann, Virág: ERC; Romankiewicz:
 Leverhulme Research Project Grant). While they are encouraged to develop independent
 research agendas (within the remit of the larger projects), they are encouraged to take full
 advantage of the training and development opportunities available as members of the teams.
 The emergence of these teams has significantly enriched the experience of all Research
 Fellows. Now, in addition to the standard calendar of Classics Research Seminars (see below),
 and Classical Association of Scotland and Scottish Hellenic Society lectures, Research Fellows
 also participate in thematic reading groups and internal seminars (e.g. the Honour in Classical
 Greece, the Greek Epigraphy and the Ancient Slavery reading groups, and the Late-Antique and
 Byzantine lunches; the Cultural Heritage Group; the Conflict Archaeology Group). Through
 these, they have access to a form of ‘collective mentoring’ supplementing the research mentor
 each is assigned.


 We also recognise the contribution to our research culture of teaching-focussed fixed-term
 staff (14), and during this census period have introduced new mechanisms to foster their
 development as researchers and their future employability. While not contractually required to
 carry out research (although they have 10% of their time ring-fenced for scholarship), they are
 now provided, on a voluntary basis, with a mentor to discuss research plans and development.
 The School has created a dedicated Career Development Fund to provide financial support for
 research expenses they incur in developing the independent research programmes required for
 applying to research and research-and-teaching posts. They are also eligible for Classics-
 specific funds for research expenses (e.g. the A.G. Leventis Publication fund) and are
 encouraged to present at our Classics Research Seminars (see Section 3.2).


 Strong evidence of the success of our strategy for supporting the research and career
 development of fixed-term staff are their career outcomes, which show that a fixed-term period
 in the unit normally leads to significant (and rapid) career progression, whether from a short
 teaching post to a longer research postdoc, or from research or teaching fixed-term posts to
 open-ended or tenure-track ones in top universities. Of the 17 fixed-term teaching (12) or



                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 teaching-and-research (five) staff who have moved on to new positions during the REF2021
 period, nine have been appointed to open-ended or tenure-track positions, six to research
 positions and postdocs and two to teaching positions. Of the 12 research and postdoctoral
 fellows that have moved (or are moving) to new positions, seven have been appointed to open-
 ended or tenure-track positions, three to further (longer) research positions, and two to fixed-
 term teaching. Both groups succeeded in securing positions in leading institutions such as
 Alberta, Århus, Birbeck, Birmingham, Bologna, British Columbia, Brown, Cincinnati, Durham,
 Exeter, KCL, Manchester, Newcastle, Nottingham, NYU, Oxford, Reading, St. Andrews and
 Thessaloniki.


 2.2 Research students


 Over the REF period our postgraduate numbers have increased dramatically, creating a
 vibrant and cosmopolitan community. We have had an average of 12 new PhD students enrolled
 per year (six per year in 2008-13). 73 students have been awarded PhD degrees over the
 census period, compared to 15 in 2008-2013, a fivefold increase. We have been successful in
 sustaining the high quality of our PhD students alongside this expansion, thanks to three factors:
 first, because of the growing recognition gained by our unit, leading to more high-quality
 applications; second, by an increased internal provision of PhD funding; third, by increased
 success in securing external funding. Between 2014-20, research students were awarded 24
 internally funded three-year doctoral awards (seven in 2008-13), and 16 external PhD awards
 (11 in 2008-13), including 10 AHRC awards (two in 2008-13), four obtained as part of ERC
 projects, two from the China Scholarship Council. It is a reflection of the international standing of
 the unit that 57 out of the 73 PhD students awarded degrees during the REF2021 period have
 come from outside the UK (36 from the EEA and 21 from outside the EEA).


 All doctoral students are allocated at least two supervisors (sometimes more, depending on
 research needs) and meet the lead supervisor at least monthly. They undergo annual review on
 the basis of a sample of their work and a forward plan. The review panel, consisting of the
 supervisors and an additional staff member, monitors progress and ensures that all necessary
 support and guidance is given to the student. This system has been strengthened, and the
 additional staff member at the annual review becomes available to PhD students if they need to
 raise confidentially any issues about the supervisory arrangement.


 Our research students play a full part in our research culture: they participate in the Classics
 Research Seminar and in the Archaeology Seminar (including as speakers) and run a weekly
 PG work-in-progress seminar. They are integrated into the wide programme of activities,



                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 seminars and reading groups connected with the research clusters and projects, taking
 advantage of the training opportunities such events provide but also contributing to their
 success. They have access to School funds for research travel expenses, and for group
 applications (with a mentor) to organise workshops, of up to £500 per year. This is
 supplemented by funding provided by the Scottish Graduate School of Arts and Humanities and
 by the Classical Association of Scotland (for the biennial STAGE conference, a large
 postgraduate event co-organised by the three Scottish Classics departments). Overall
 expenditure by the School for PhD student travel and activities has gone up from £11k in 2013 to
 £22k in 2020. PhD students who are team members of large research projects also have
 project-specific funding available. Dedicated funds for travel are also available: the Baldwin
 Brown Travelling Scholarship for Classical Archaeology (up to £750 per year), the Roman
 Archaeology Fieldwork Fund (up to £500 per year) and the Abercrombie Fund (up to £750 per
 year).


 All PhD students can apply to undertake tutoring pending successful completion of their first
 year review, and the vast majority of those who apply (ca. 70%) are offered tutoring
 opportunities. Tutors are supported by training at institutional, School and unit level, including
 tutor training, ‘marking parties’, a comprehensive ‘Graduate Tutor’s Handbook’, feedback
 sessions and classwork observation. PhD workshops, offering practical support for
 completion and career guidance, are organised at School and unit level (e.g. on publishing
 and on applying for postdoctoral fellowships).


 As part of our commitment to international research, we encourage our students to engage
 directly with other research cultures. In addition to Erasmus+ exchanges with Bologna, Milan,
 Thessaloniki, Turin, Venice and the Scuola Normale Superiore, and joint PhD programmes with
 the Padua Law School and the University of Cagliari, students have gone e.g. to Athens (BSA
 Epigraphy and Numismatics courses), Berlin, Bordeaux, Freiburg, Geneva (Fondation Hardt),
 Marbach (Deutsches Literaturarchiv), Munich (Kommission für Alte Geschichte und Epigraphik),
 Rome (BSR Epigraphy course), Rostock and Verona, supported by competitive studentships
 and grants.


 The higher quality of our PhD recruitment, the wider availability of research funding, the
 increased range of training opportunities and the benefits of a more dynamic research culture
 have contributed to both our PhD students’ productivity and their career prospects. PhD
 students and recent PhDs have 9 books published or imminently forthcoming (Archaeopress,
 Bloomsbury, Brill, Cambridge Scholars Publishing, CUP, De Gruyter, EUP, Oxbow, Yamakawa
 Publishing). During the census period, PhD students have published over 50 articles and



                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 chapters in top venues including Chiron, Historia, Studia Patristica, Journal of Mediterranean
 Archaeology, Classical Quarterly, Greece & Rome, Journal of Ecclesiastical History,
 Mnemosyne, Rheinisches Museum, Classical Philology, Byzantine and Modern Greek Studies,
 Journal of Global Slavery, and Journal of Hellenic Studies. They are involved in the organisation
 of the STAGE conferences (sponsored by the Classical Association of Scotland) and Northern
 Lights conferences (which they have developed), have organised a number of conferences in
 Edinburgh and beyond, and have had panels accepted at the Celtic Conference in Classics and
 at the FIEC/CA conference in London. As for career prospects, while over the REF2014 period
 recent PhDs obtained a total of 10 academic posts and fellowships, during the REF2021 period
 recent PhDs have obtained a total of 45: six open-ended or tenure-track posts; 27 postdoctoral
 research posts (including Leverhulme ECF and SAS, Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowship, Irish
 Research Council Government of Ireland Post-doctoral Fellowship, Schweizer Nationalfonds
 Post-Doctoral Fellowship, JRF University College, Oxford Thyssen Fellowship, ASCSA
 fellowship, fellowships at the Universities of Cyprus, Crete, Kiel, Stirling, Helsinki); and 12 fixed-
 term teaching posts.


 2.3 Equality and diversity


 The School of History, Classics and Archaeology achieved an Athena Swan Bronze award in
 April 2016 and is in the process of applying for a Silver award. The University is a member of the
 Athena Swan Charter and was awarded a Silver Award in 2015. These efforts have resulted in
 much more consistent monitoring and awareness of equality and diversity issues within the unit
 and wider recognition of the scale of challenges in this area. Most efforts so far have
 concentrated on addressing issues of gender balance, which we have recognised as a
 particular challenge, yet this focus has not caused us to ignore other inequalities. We have
 started gathering data (on a voluntary basis) about the socio-economic background of our
 staff, concentrating initially on proxies such as the educational level of one’s parents and the
 kind of schooling one has received. An initial staff survey found that at least 10 staff members
 were the first in their families to attain university-level degrees, and around 60% attended state
 schools. While we believe this does not compare unfavourably to other Classics units, it is clear
 that this is not good enough (the privately educated are 7% of the overall UK population). This
 must become a central concern in the EDI agenda of the unit (and, indeed, of the field of
 Classics more widely).


 In 2016 the School created an EDI Director (from 2017 to 2020 a classicist, Grig), with ex officio
 membership of the School Management Committee, and a Deputy EDI Director with
 responsibility for our undergraduate and postgraduate communities. The EDI Director and the



                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 committee s/he chairs develop policies and collect and analyse data from the annual workplace
 culture survey and other sources. The EDI Director is a member of the School’s promotions
 committee and there is now greater communication and transparency about promotions
 procedures within HCA. A rigorous process of open advertisement for all school management
 and leadership roles has been adopted and this has ensured greater representation of women in
 these roles.


 Progress has been perhaps most tangible around appointments. The diversity of backgrounds
 in our staff has considerably increased over the census period: EEA nationals have gone up
 from 29.2% to 43.9%, and staff from outside the EEA from 8.3% to 17.1%. Staff members in
 Edinburgh Classics come from a wide range of backgrounds (currently Argentina, Canada,
 England, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Scotland, Spain and the US) and are
 recruited, trained and promoted in accordance with the University of Edinburgh’s Equality and
 Diversity Strategy Action Plan. Our staffing strategy (see Section 2.1) has also succeeded in
 curtailing casualisation and precarious employment: since REF 2014, the percentage of
 submitted staff in temporary employment has gone down from 54.2% to 24.4%, and the
 percentage of staff in open-ended contracts has gone up from 45.8% to 75.6%.


 One particular challenge has been the need to improve the gender balance of our staff. New
 awareness of this challenge, together with a reform of our appointment processes for permanent
 staff (with gender-balanced appointment committees and a more layered procedure involving
 Skype interviews of a long-list of 10-12 candidates, followed by in-campus interviews of a short-
 list of four-five) have produced some improvement in this area. The multiple selection stages, as
 well as compulsory unconscious-bias training for all members of appointment committees, have
 facilitated more conscious reflection on our practice and the results have been encouraging:
 permanent appointments from 2016 onwards (five women, four men) have not only been more
 gender balanced, but have also gone some way towards remedying the overall gender
 imbalance in our staff. The first challenge going forward (as noted in Section 1.5) is to maintain
 momentum in our efforts – we are conscious that, at 32% (improved from 29% in REF 2014), the
 overall proportion of women in the unit sits below national (42%) and Russell Group (40%)
 benchmarks, but our recent success makes us confident that our reformed appointment system,
 in time, will redress this problem.


 A range of measures have contributed to fostering a stronger EDI agenda in other areas. One
 area has been our research leave provision: this has been reformed during the current REF
 period specifically to take into account the additional challenges facing colleagues who have
 taken a semester or more of leave for parental or other caring responsibilities. Not only does



                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 parental leave count towards research leave accrual, but colleagues who have taken parental
 leave are entitled to enhanced (50% faster) research leave accrual per semester for four
 semesters after returning from leave. Returnees can also request a phased return, as well as
 temporary or permanent changes to their working hours; in the REF2021 period all flexible-
 working requests were approved (two). They are also assigned parental leave mentors to assist
 with planning and career management following their return. The parental leave provision has
 now been further strengthened to support research affected by the COVID-19 pandemic: starting
 in 2020, we have expanded the newly enhanced research leave accrual rate following parental
 leave to six rather than four semesters, also giving priority for research leave to colleagues
 particularly affected by the pandemic.


 Another area is PGR provision, where gender balance has improved and diversity increased:
 57 of the 73 PhD students awarded degrees during the census period have come from outside
 the UK (36 from the EU; 21 from outside the EU); of the students awarded degrees during the
 current census period, 41 have been female and 32 male; of those currently matriculated, 28 are
 female and 28 male. PhD students are given the option of being allocated a PhD mentor in
 addition to their supervisors, with the aim of securing gender balance where this is not provided
 within the supervisory team. The same principle is applied at the viva, with the presence of a
 non-examining chair securing gender balance even when both examiners are of the same
 gender.


 In the context of our REF submission, we have adopted (in line with the UoE REF2021 Code of
 Practice) an inclusive approach to defining ‘independent researcher’ and have embraced the
 decision to return 100% of eligible academic staff. We adopted a rigorous and transparent
 approach to selecting outputs, fully accounting for staff special circumstances which have
 affected their research activity. The process took full account of EDI considerations, building in
 unconscious-bias and EDI training. We also set up an independent EDI group to review the
 distribution of outputs across staff by gender and career stage (we were unable to access
 accurate data on other protected characteristics because of the voluntary nature of the
 information and constraints to updating personal details). The result of this review demonstrated
 a balanced spread of outputs across gender and career stage: 27% of outputs submitted are
 authored/co-authored by female staff (who comprise 32% of our staff); 57% by ECRs and Grade
 8 colleagues (54% of our staff). Overall, over 90% of our staff contributed two or more outputs.
 This is testament to how our inclusive approach to research support has enabled staff to flourish,
 across genders and career stages. 10% of the outputs submitted are co-authored by members
 of the unit (often at different career stages) – providing further evidence of the inclusive and
 collaborative environment the unit has succeeded in creating.



                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 3.1 Research Income


 The unit’s research income has increased twelvefold since the previous REF census period:
 from just over £500k in 2008-13 (and £200k in 2001-7), to ca. £6.1m in 2014-20. This
 remarkable growth has been underpinned by a systematic approach to grant support. Our
 strategy has been twofold. First, we appointed a Classics Research Officer, an academic
 colleague with experience of grant funding, whose role is not only that of assessing, or advising
 on, research funding applications, but of keeping an ear to the ground, being aware of emerging
 ideas for research projects, and steering colleagues towards appropriate funding opportunities.
 Second, we have restructured the level of administrative research support, with a much-
 expanded Research, Impact and Knowledge Exchange Office (from two staff in 2008-2013 to
 five at the census date), including a new Research Office Manager who joined us from the
 central university Research and Innovation Office, bringing wider expertise than previously
 available. The Research, Impact and Knowledge Exchange Office now has the skills and the
 knowledge to support funding applications at all stages, from initial conception to grant
 management.


 The result of these measures has been a marked increase in the number of colleagues
 submitting applications: in 2008-13, 11 members of staff made 52 applications; in 2014-20, 31
 members of staff made 131 applications. We have been especially successful in securing major
 grants for collaborative research projects: three ERC grants (one, won by Sauer, started in 2012
 but continued in the REF2021 period; two won by Gaul/Virág and by Cairns/M. Canevaro during
 the REF2021 period), two AHRC Standard Grants (Cairns, Robin), two Leverhulme Research
 Project Grants (Russell, Crow), and one British Council Newton-Mosharafa grant (Rowland). We
 have also been successful in securing medium-size grants funding individual research, most of
 which went to researchers who had not hitherto won grants on this scale: e.g. three Philip
 Leverhulme Prizes (M. Canevaro, Fernández-Götz, Russell), one Leverhulme Major Research
 Fellowship (Roth), three British Academy Mid-Career Fellowships (Grig, Kelly, Trépanier), one
 Leverhulme Research Fellowship (O’Rourke). We have been equally successful in securing
 competitive research fellowships abroad: four from the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation
 (Gray, Kelly, Maciver, Cairns), one from the Israel Institute of Advanced Studies (Eckhardt), one
 from the Gerda Henkel Stiftung (Barringer); one from Dumbarton Oaks (Crow); and network
 funding to kick start cross-national collaborations, including two Leverhulme International
 Network grants (Kelly; Cairns); four BA/Leverhulme Small Research Grants (Cairns, Kelly;
 Pelttari, Russell); five RSE Exchange grants (M. Canevaro x3, Kelly, Russell); one RSE



                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Workshop Grant (Lewis); two ACLS grant (Kelly, Virág); two Society of Antiquaries of Scotland
 grants (Romankiewicz x2); two from Aberdeenshire Council (Romankiewicz x2); three Carnegie
 Trust Research Incentive Grants (Fernández-Götz, Robin, Schoop).


 3.2 Internal research funding


 Internal funding and various forms of support are available for all kinds of research – both
 discrete research projects and collaborative projects leading to external funding applications.
 The Research, Impact and Knowledge Exchange Office (fully restructured, see Section 3.1)
 assists with a range of activities: from arranging double peer-review of all funding applications,
 through financial planning, all the way to grant administration and the organisation of
 conferences, workshops and other research activities. The School provides funding for:
 organising conferences and workshops; conference attendance and research travel, publication
 costs; pump-priming for external funding applications; and KEI activities. The overall School
 financial support for research activities of the unit during the REF2021 period has amounted
 to £71.4k (from £15k in 2008-13). In addition, the School has provided an average of £9.3k per
 year for the running of the various seminar series (Classics Research Seminar; Archaeology
 Seminar; Byzantine Studies Seminar; Late-Antique Lunch; Archaeology Seminar; Cultural
 Heritage Group; Conflict Archaeology Group; Classics Graduate Seminar). Moreover, the
 CAHSS offers further pump-priming funding through its Challenge Investment Fund, of which the
 unit has secured ca. £45k (four grants: M. Canevaro, Russell, Roth and Robin; three have
 already led to external grants).


 Our activities are further supported by a number of private endowments used strategically to
 foster research in Classics (see Section 2.1). A consistent flagship in the unit’s activities is the
 biennial one-semester appointment to the A.G. Leventis Chair of Greek, established in 1997
 through an endowment which provides a continuing source of income. The endowment has
 additionally been topped up annually by the Foundation with a total of £167k in 2014-20. The
 A.G. Leventis Professor organises an international conference and contributes to our research
 culture through seminars and lectures. Staff collaborate in the organisation of the conference
 and publication of the resulting book. The A.G. Leventis Professor also contributes to
 postgraduate research training in the form of a graduate seminar. The A.G. Leventis professors
 have been Josiah Ober (Stanford, 2015), François Lissarrague (EHESS, 2017), and Mary
 Margaret McCabe (KCL, 2019). A publication subvention scheme draws from the book royalties
 to assist with publication expenses of key outputs (up to £1k per year per person; e.g. L.G.
 Canevaro for indexing; Berry for producing a map; Russell for technical drawings). The Charles
 Gordon Mackay Fund finances public lectures in Greek studies: recent lecturers include Profs



                                                                                                Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 David Konstan (Brown/NYU), Leslie Kurke (Berkeley), Paschalis Kitromilides (Athens), Stephen
 Lambert (Cardiff), Claudia Rapp (Vienna), and Gianfranco Agosti (Rome).


 3.3 Infrastructure


 The Classics unit is located in the William Robertson Wing of the Old Medical School in the
 university’s George Square campus. It shares this building (fully refurbished in 2010: £14m) with
 History and further colleagues in Archaeology (not part of this submission), with significant
 advantages for cross-disciplinary collaboration. Located in the heart of the University and
 Edinburgh’s Old Town, the building benefits from state-of-the-art facilities (including lecture
 theatres, teaching and study rooms, and multiple common rooms) equipped to nurture a
 collaborative research culture and provide a hub for international visitors and events. Staff and
 postgraduates share a common room, integrating our research students socially into the
 research community.


 The unit has outstanding archaeological laboratory facilities with general purpose and teaching
 spaces and specialist research facilities, including finds processing, chemical analysis,
 osteology, microscopy and teaching laboratories. The central location allows ease of access to
 the University Library (which houses the main Classics collection): it is amongst the largest in
 the UK with over 2m books, 185k e-journals and 1.4m e-books. An Academic Liaison Librarian
 oversees the resource allocation of the library budget to ensure book ordering across the full
 spectrum of the unit’s research; during the REF2021 period the availability of funds for library
 resources has increased from £500 per year per staff member to an average of over £1,000.
 The University Library also hosts 60 kilometres of Special Collections, Museum and Art
 Collections, and the unit has been directly involved in the study and digitalization of specific
 collections (such as the John Stuart Blackie collection) and of particular manuscripts (e.g., with
 the support of the Leventis Foundation, of ms 224: the testamentary typicon for Neophytos
 Enkleistos’ hermitage of the Holy Cross near Ktima on Cyprus, from 1214). In addition, the
 William Robertson Wing houses the Classics Library Collection in the Student Research Room,
 which has been further augmented in its core study and research tools through book donations
 by retired staff and local classicists. We are also located within a 5-minute walk from the
 National Library of Scotland, one of the six UK legal deposit libraries. Staff also benefit from the
 facilities of the National Museum of Scotland and Historic Environment Scotland.


 We benefit from the Institute of Advanced Studies in the Humanities (IASH): one of the world's
 premier Institutes for Advanced Study. IASH supports innovative research through a range of
 interdisciplinary and international programmes and has provided significant resources that



                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 enhance our research culture, sponsoring and hosting Classics research activities (e.g. the
 weekly Greek Epigraphy Reading Group; various workshops and conferences), and funding
 during this REF cycle 12 IASH fellows (senior and postdoctoral) sponsored by Classics (see
 Section 4).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 Edinburgh Classics acts as an international centre of research collaboration, with its members
 engaged in active dialogue across institutional boundaries and contributing widely to the
 Classics and Archaeology international research community.


 The breadth of our collaborations is apparent in our extensive conference, workshops and
 events programme: throughout the census period there have at least eight such events per
 academic year, spanning from small and medium-sized workshops connected with our research
 projects (e.g. those of the ERC Honour in Classical Greece project) or through our landmark
 biennial A.G. Leventis conferences (see Section 3.2), all the way to hosting major gatherings
 of the discipline(s) such as the Celtic Conference in Classics (2014), the CA/CAS conference
 (2016), and the Roman Archaeology/Theoretical Roman Archaeology Conference (2018). The
 collaborative and international outlook of Edinburgh Classics is also evident from the range of
 staff exchanges set up through the Erasmus+ programme (Bologna, Milan, Thessaloniki, Turin,
 Venice, the Scuola Normale Superiore), as well as by the sheer number (26) and international
 scope of visiting fellowships and professorships held by members of the unit (in Egypt,
 Germany, Greece, Israel, Italy, Japan, Sweden, Taiwan, Turkey, UK, USA) – some highlights
 are A. von Humboldt Fellowships (Gray, Kelly, Maciver, Cairns), a Mercator Fellowship
 (Cairns), an Early Career Visiting Fellowship in Classics at Stanford (Russell), an Israel Institute
 for Advanced Study Fellowship (Eckhardt), and various visiting professorships (e.g. in Uppsala,
 Pisa, Tokyo, Cagliari, Cairo, Thessaloniki). It is also highlighted by how popular a destination
 Edinburgh Classics has become for visiting researchers: in 2014-2020, 35 academics, from
 UK (five), US (seven), Netherlands (two), New Zealand (two), Italy (five), Denmark (two),
 Germany (two), Iran, China (three), Oman, Greece (two), Norway and Spain, have held visiting
 research positions in our unit. These include, most prominently: Profs David Konstan, Paschalis
 Kitromilides, Mary Margaret McCabe, Josiah Ober, Øyvind Rabbås, Jeff Tatum, Joop van
 Waarden.


 International research collaboration is also pursued through involvement in networks and
 projects based in other institutions around the world. These collaborations enrich our
 research culture and feed into the design of further research projects. Members of the unit direct,
 or are formally affiliated with, no less than 58 trans-institutional projects and networks, involving


                                                                                                Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 institutions from the USA to Iran, from Spain and Austria to Tunisia and Egypt. Some examples
 are: the Honour and Invectivity project directed by Cairns at TU Dresden, funded by his
 Anneliese Maier-Forschungspreis; the Naxos Survey Project run by the Universities of Oslo and
 Newcastle (Crow); the Pozega Project, with the Zagreb University, Croatia (Fernández-Götz);
 the Collected Imperial Greek Epics project, directed by Whitmarsh, Cambridge (Maciver); The
 Early Medieval Turf Houses of Frisia Geoarchaeological Study, run by the Dutch Cultural
 Heritage Agency and the University of Groningen (Romankiewicz); the Naqada Regional
 Archaeological Survey and Site Management Project in southern Egypt, directed by Rowland
 with the University of Winchester and the Egypt Exploration Society; the Aeclanum
 Archaeological Project, directed by Russell and run by non-profit Apolline Project, Accademia di
 Belle Arti di Napoli, Soprintendenza di Salerno e Avellino, Comune di Mirabella Eclano, and the
 British School at Rome; and the Gorgan Wall Project, directed by Sauer with Nokandeh
 (National Museum of Iran) and Rekavandi (Iranian Cultural Heritage).


 In the same spirit of international intellectual exchange, members of the unit have disseminated
 their research through lectures and seminars in the UK, North- and South-America, Europe, as
 well as the Far East and the Arab world, including some 25 named lectures and keynotes
 delivered by 13 colleagues (e.g. Cairns: Chen Yinke Lectures, Guangzhou; L.G. Canevaro:
 Material Agency Forum Lecture, Leiden; Crow: Opening of Niarchos Late Antique and Byzantine
 Centre, Koç; Eckhardt: keynote, Maccabean Fictions, Elie Wiesel Center for Jewish Studies,
 Boston; Fernández-Götz: keynote, ‘Second European Symposium in Celtic Studies’, Bangor;
 Gaul: keynotes at Dumbarton Oaks Spring Symposium and Harvard Center in Shanghai; Grig:
 keynote, Finnish Symposium in Late Antiquity; Spingou: keynote, Annual Meeting of the
 Byzantinists in Belgium; Stouraitis: keynote, Vienna Dialogues).


 The international standing of the unit is also reflected in the range of honours, awards and
 marks of distinction bestowed upon its members nationally and internationally: Barringer:
 PROSE Award for Textbook, Humanities (2016); Corresponding Member, DAI (2016); Bolchazy
 Book Prize (2018); Cairns: Member, Academia Europaea (2014); Fellow, Royal Society of
 Edinburgh (2018); Fellow, British Academy (2018); Anneliese Maier-Forschungspreis, Alexander
 von Humboldt-Stiftung (2018); M. Canevaro: Member, RSE Young Academy of Scotland (2014);
 Philip Leverhulme Prize (2015); Fellow, Young Academy of Europe (2017); RSE Thomas Reid
 Medal (2017); Chancellor’s Rising Star Award, Edinburgh (2017); Member, Academia Europaea
 (2019); Erskine: Corresponding Member, DAI (2015); Fernández-Götz: Fellow, Society of
 Antiquaries of Scotland (2015); Philip Leverhulme Prize (2016); Fellow, Society of Antiquaries of
 London (2016); Member, Young Academy of Scotland (2020); Russell: Philip Leverhulme Prize
 (2019); Rowland: Fellow, Society of Antiquaries of Scotland (2016).



                                                                                           Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Edinburgh classicists and archaeologists play leading roles in contributing to the sustainability
 of the discipline. During the census period, colleagues were active as editors of leading
 journals, including European Review (Fernández-Götz) Journal of Hellenic Studies (Cairns);
 as editors of book series, including Edinburgh Leventis Studies, EUP, Emotions in Antiquity,
 Mohr Siebeck, Lexis: Ancient Philosophy, Hakkert, Back to the Classics, Springer (Cairns);
 Ancient Cultures, New Materialisms, EUP (L.G. Canevaro), New Approaches to Ancient Greek
 Institutional History, EUP (M. Canevaro, Lewis); Elements: The Archaeology of Europe, CUP
 (Fernández-Götz); Edinburgh Byzantine Studies, EUP (Gaul, Stouraitis); Edinburgh Studies in
 Later Latin Literature, EUP (Kelly, Pelttari); Edinburgh Studies in Ancient Slavery, EUP (Roth).
 They have also been members of some 41 editorial boards (of journals and book series), and
 have undertaken refereeing duties for at least 108 academic journals from 26 countries (e.g.
 American Journal of Archaeology; American Political Science Review; Annales HSS; Classical
 Quarterly; Dumbarton Oaks Papers; Hesperia; Iran; Journal of Ancient Judaism; Journal of
 Hellenic Studies; Journal of Egyptian Archaeology; Journal of Roman Studies). They have
 refereed book manuscripts for at least 29 academic presses from nine countries (including
 Bloomsbury, Brill, Classical Press of Wales, CUP, De Gruyter, EUP, OUP, Yale University
 Press, Wiley-Blackwell).


 They have, moreover, made vital contributions to promoting the discipline through:
 reference works: e.g. Erskine: Encyclopedia of Ancient History (general editor); popular
 works and textbooks: e.g. Barringer: The Art and Archaeology of Ancient Greece, CUP, 2014
 (winner of PROSE Award for Textbook, Humanities, and Bolchazy Book Prize); Erskine:
 Plutarch: The Hellenistic Lives, OUP, 2016; Guidetti: L’impero romano in 100 date, Della Porta,
 2016; Rawles: Callimachus, Bloomsbury, 2019.


 They have served in leading positions in professional subject associations and learned
 societies. Cairns: Chair of Council, CAS; Member of Council and Trustee, SPHS; Chair, CA
 Journals Board; Chair of Council, CA; Committee member, CI, RSE; Crow: Member of Council
 of Management and of Research Committee, British Institute at Ankara; Member of Advisory
 Committee, WALCap HLF Hadrian’s Wall project; Gaul: Committee member, New Europe
 College (Romania), SPHS; Grig: Standing Committee, CUCD; Kelly: President, CAS, Edinburgh
 and South East Centre; Roth: Honorary Secretary, BES; Standing Committee Member and
 Statistics Officer, CUCD; Sauer: Trustee, Friends of Academic Research in Georgia; Director,
 Ancient Iran Programme, British Institute of Persian Studies; Research Council Member and
 Council Member, British Institute of Persian Studies; Council Member, SPRS; Schoop: Steering
 Committee, British Association of Near Eastern Archaeologists. This has not been limited to



                                                                                            Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 senior staff, but more junior colleagues have also prominently served in leading positions:
 L.G. Canevaro: Treasurer, SHS; M. Canevaro: Treasurer, CAS; Council Member, CAS; Co-
 Chair of Arts and Humanities in Society WG, RSE Young Academy of Scotland; Fernández-
 Götz: Executive Board Member, European Association of Archaeologists; Board Member,
 Young Academy of Europe; Chair of Global Undergraduate Awards, Classical Studies &
 Archaeology category; Lewis: Secretary, SHS; O’Rourke: Board Member, SPRS; Council
 Member, CA; Secretary, CAS, Edinburgh and South East; Russell: Council Member, SPRS;
 Spingou: Secretary, CAS, Edinburgh and South East.


 Colleagues have also served as members of Research Councils or similar national and
 international committees: Barringer: Member, Panel SH6, ERC; Cairns: Chair, Panel C,
 Scottish Graduate School of Arts and Humanities (AHRC/SFC); Member, International Selection
 Committee, EURIAS; Member, Advisory Board, Philip Leverhulme Prize in Classics; Member,
 Leverhulme Trust Research Awards Advisory Committee; Member, GEV 10, VQR; Member,
 panel 29, REF 2021; Fernández-Götz: Member, AHRC Peer Review College; Spanish State
 Research Agency; O’Rourke: Member, Discipline + Catalyst for SGSAH/AHRC; Roth: Member,
 AHRC Peer Review College; Expert étranger, Prix Société des professeurs d'histoire ancienne
 de l'université (France). In addition, they act widely as peer-reviewers for a variety of funders
 and research institutions, including: AHRC; Alexander von Humboldt-Stiftung; Australian
 National Research Council; Austrian Science Fund; British Academy; Carnegie Trust; ACLS;
 Cyprus Research Promotion Foundation; Czech Science Foundation; DAAD; ERC; ESF;
 EURIAS; DFG; Harry Frank Guggenheim Foundation; IAS, Princeton; Leverhulme Trust; IRC;
 Marsden Fund Council, New Zealand; National Centre of Science and Technology Evaluation,
 Kazakhstan; National Science Foundation, USA; Polish National Science Centre; PRIN, Italy;
 Research Foundation, Flanders; Spanish State Research Agency; UNESCO World Heritage
 Sites; Wellcome Trust. Our service to the discipline has also taken the form of several HEI
 consultancies: external reviews of departments and institutions have been carried out by
 Cairns (Birmingham, Cork, ICS, Vilnius) and Erskine (Newcastle, Teeside). Promotion and
 tenure reviews have been carried out by Barringer (Emory, Georgetown, NYU, Hamburg),
 Cairns (Crete, Brown, Oxford, Glasgow, Fudan, FSU, Newcastle, Dresden), Erskine (Cyprus,
 Princeton, Cincinnati, Whitman College, Binghamton, Harvard, Toronto), Gaul (Princeton,
 SUNY), Grig (Knoxville); Kelly (Exeter, Toronto), Leighton (South Florida), Sauer (Innsbruck).
 Colleagues have been external examiners for at least 27 PhDs in 13 universities in the UK, and
 at least 36 at 31 universities in 13 other countries, including 11 doctorates in Spain, four in
 Australia, three in the US, three in Italy, two each in France, Germany and Ireland.




                                                                                               Page 24
