Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Queen’s University Belfast

 Unit of Assessment: 26

 The Modern Languages UoA currently comprises 24 academic colleagues, 4 post-doctoral
 fellows, and 67 PGR students working across Arabic, Francophone, Gaelic and Luso-Hispanic
 contexts. Our research embraces linguistics, literature, visual culture, translation and socio-
 historical studies and encompasses a range of methodologies (both established and newer
 modes of investigation) and diverse periods. Our strategies are designed to ensure the
 sustainability of high-quality disciplinary and interdisciplinary research, and to facilitate the
 development of impact locally, nationally and internationally. During the review period, the unit
 has seen a dramatic increase in its research funding to £6 million, major expansion of its PGR
 cohort, and significant internationalisation of its research portfolio.

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Research in UoA 26 is supported primarily by a Core Disciplinary Research Group (CDRG) for
 Languages which has formed part of the larger School of Arts, English and Languages since
 2016. The CDRGs were introduced as part of a new research ecosystem under the University’s
 Research Strategy 2016-21 with the specific aim of facilitating and organising research within
 distinct disciplines (Institutional Statement §1b). The Languages CDRG operates with a
 devolved annual budget which supports collaborative research initiatives, an annual research
 away day, a research seminar series, conference organization and publications, supplemented
 by a range of School-wide and Faculty funding streams (Section 2 for details) . Research spend
 and activities are coordinated by a CDRG lead who reports to the School’s Director of Research
 and sits on the School’s Research Committee.
          The CDRG’s research strategy was formulated in consultation with members of staff at
 bi-annual planning and review meetings. It is intended to support current research strengths and
 foster new areas. Literary and cultural studies have traditionally had the most substantial critical
 mass in the UoA, with significant temporal breadth and geographical spread. Research
 encompasses the medieval, early modern and particularly the modern periods, and includes
 Europe, the Americas, the Caribbean, Africa and Asia. We have expanded our research in the
 growth areas of translation and linguistics through a strategy of new appointments, research
 funding investment and realignment. We have developed strength in medical humanities, digital
 cultures, digital humanities and visual cultures (notably art, film and photography) through
 appointments in the previous cycle and the exploitation of research funding opportunities.
 Research connectedness is established internally through identification of the common
 principles, concepts and methods that unite us. From strong disciplinary foundations, we seek to
 promote a catalytic role for modern languages in a broader interdisciplinary context, both within
 QUB and worldwide.
          The UoA has a five-year strategy for sustainability which is aligned with established and
 emerging research strengths, responsive to national and international research priorities, and
 pro-active in shaping the intellectual parameters of the discipline. The strategy is informed by
 four mutually reinforcing aims:
 (a) Recruit and retain high-quality staff, PDRAs and research students through the development
 of a research culture that promotes excellence through integration and inclusivity;
 (b) Enhance our international profile through global dissemination of high quality publications
 and involvement in international collaborations;

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (c) Consolidate a proactive culture of grant application that enables the execution of innovative
 and creative research agendas;
 (d) Foster a culture of impact that maximises potential and opportunity, specifically:
   (i)    identifying potential impact at an early stage through the incorporation of impact into
          mentoring, appraisal and training;
   (ii)   increasing the number of research projects in which impact is a key component;
   (iii)  fostering a culture of impact amongst research students and encouraging the
          incorporation of impact into their project proposals.

 Looking forward, the University is currently finalising a new ‘Corporate Plan 2030’ in which the
 Research and Innovation strand commits to building a high-profile research portfolio focused on
 areas of strength and translational expertise (Institutional Statement §2e). Modern Languages is
 identified as extremely well placed to deliver high quality outputs and build global reputation in
 two of the Plan’s five priority themes: ‘Inclusive and Creative Communities’ and ‘A
 Transformative and Productive Economy’. The Impact component of our strategy (below) has
 also been developed in alignment with the objectives of the 2030 Plan: specifically, to build
 research partnerships locally, nationally and globally through engagement and co-creation with
 users.

 Research Plan 2014-2019
 Our current forward plan builds on the research and impact strategy outlined in REF 2014
 (Impact Template and Environment Statement) which set 11 targets, the majority of which were
 met or exceeded:
 1. Sustain and expand the staffing levels and obtain additional fixed term posts through
    external funding. Performance: Despite contraction in the overall Univeristy budget since
    2010 (Institutional Statement 1d), permanent staffing levels were maintained and funded
    projects generated a further six PDRA posts during the period (see section 2).
 2. Provide a vibrant and sustainable research culture through an effective staff development
    strategy and programme of seminars and conferences. Performance: we organise an
    annual programme of activities (seminars, workshops, etc.); an annual research showcase
    that includes PGR and PDRAs in prominent roles; focussed reading groups; and we have
    hosted several major conferences (See Section 4). In recognition, the Research Group was
    awarded the Vice-Chancellor’s inaugural ‘Research Culture’ prize (2018).
 3. Consolidate external funding for individual and collaborative research. Performance: we
    achieved a nearly threefold increase in the period, rising from £2.2 million in REF2014 to £6
    million.
 4. Reconfigure international collaborations to support concrete networks with joint outputs and
    results. Performance: this has resulted in several collaborative conferences and
    publications. See Section 4 for details.
 5. Consolidate current impacts and develop four new impact areas. Performance: we
    developed four major new areas of impact in lexicography, disability, sociolinguistics, and
    digital cultures (see Impact Strategy).
 6. Contribute to the research base through the production of textual editions, online resources,
    and lexicographical work. Performance: infrastructure projects have been central with new
    editions (Jeannerod), translations (Johnston), corpora (Carruthers), and lexicography
    (Toner).
 7. Recruit and retain high-quality research students, maintain a strong postgraduate research
    culture, and maximise awards. Performance: 54.5 successful PhD completions, including

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    growth in interdisciplinary projects across the Faculty. We have diversified funding streams
    by targetting BGP, Marie Curie, and Leverhulme. See section 2: Research Students.
 8. Maximise collaboration and training opportunities in BGP2. Performance PGR students
    have benefitted from the full range of BGP2 activities including training and specialist
    workshops such as the Public Policy Workshop (Durham). See Section 2.
 9. Increase the proportion of staff with large projects to 60%. Performance: The unit has
    produced 24 large outputs by 15 individuals (= 63% of eligible staff) including 11
    monographs, 7 edited volumes, two digital resources, two scholarly editions and an
    anthology.

 We have been unable to satisfactorily assess the following targets:

 10. Increase the number of publications in world-leading journals and prestigious presses by
     25%. Performance: Changes in the rules for submission of outputs in REF2021 mean that
     meaningful comparisons cannot be made.
 11. Increase citation levels as measured against benchmarks: Performance: This aim was
     withdrawn due to a lack of meaningful benchmarks for Languages and doubts about the
     validity of citation indexes.

 Impact Strategy
 Impact is at the heart of the University’s vision for research (Institutional Statement §2d), with
 support mechanisms cascading down throughout the institution. Impact development is
 supported at School level by an Impact Champion (and, since 2019, an Engaged Research
 Champion). At Faculty level, a Research Impact Officer works with individuals in the
 development of impact and provides frequent training and networking events, for example,
 meeting with documentary makers and producers, working with national museums, and
 cultivating smaller scale impacts. Several UoA staff have availed of Faculty funds (up to £5000)
 to support impact development (e.g. Ó Mainnín for a schools engagement programme and
 Holmes for work on the Brazilian urban periphery).
          Within the CDRG context and in line with our impact strategy (Section 1), we have
 sought to maximise our impact through collaborative external partnerships, for example, in the
 realms of:

       disability where Eardley-Weaver worked with Sydney Opera House and Belfast’s Titanic
        centre on increasing accessibility for blind and partially sighted,
       culture where Toner collaborated with the Royal Irish Academy in creating a travelling
        exhibition and street banner campaign on medieval Ireland,
       civil society where Holmes’ collaboration with artists led to a sound installation
        demonstrating police violence in South America.

 We recognise that impact often comes out of public engagement activity and we have lengthy
 experience of engaging with the public through lectures, television and radio, website resources,
 social media and policy briefings. Communication with the media is supported by a Faculty
 media liaison officer. For instance, Jeannerod’s research on the Agatha Christie formula
 received wide coverage in 2015 including The Guardian, The Times, Daily News (New York),
 Die Zeit, New Zealand Herald, and O Globo (Brazil). In her capacity as Priority Area Leadership
 Fellow, Carruthers is regularly interviewed in relation to language education policy, most
 frequently by BBC Radio Ulster but also by BBC NI television, U105 and Steve Wright. These
 interviews have covered, for example, the publication of Towards a National Languages

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Strategy, the Council for Curriculum, Examinations & Assessment’s review of ML grading, the
 BBC’s survey of languages uptake in the UK and the MEITS Pop-Up museum. Carruthers and
 colleagues participated in a television program for France 3 (April 2018) on the value of
 minoritised languages, focusing on their research on Occitan (through the Marie Curie
 ExpressioNarration project) and on Irish (through MEITS). Individual projects (e.g. Centre for
 Translation and Interpreting, Northern Ireland Placenames Project, and Electronic Dictionary of
 the Irish Language) have dedicated Twitter and Facebook accounts.

 Case Studies: Our impact strategy aims to sustain existing areas of impact as well as develop
 new ones and the submitted ICSs reflect a mixture of these approaches. Ó Mainnín’s ICS is the
 result of sustained research on Irish placenames over many years by the Northern Ireland
 Placenames Project. The project has embedded an impact element since its inception and has
 cultivated a close collaborative relationship with partners. Outreach work in the community lies at
 the core of the UoA’s mission and has led to commissions from local councils to produce Gaelic
 forms of street names. Its extensive expertise and networks also led to a commission from the
 Department of Finance for a complete database of Northern Ireland placenames and this has
 opened up new avenues for impact on heritage and language studies within the schools sector.
         The UoA aims to build impact into research funding bids as a key means of increasing
 our impact. Toner’s ICS stems from an AHRC-funded online dictionary of medieval Irish which
 has reached a global audience. An AHRC-funded collaboration with Cambridge University
 (2014-19) enabled the team to further enhance the reach and significance of the research
 through a focussed impact plan. This resulted in the publication of a popular book, an
 accompanying exhibition and a street banner campaign which have challenged ideas about life
 in medieval Ireland.
         A further pathway to impact arises from collaboration with practitioners of which
 Johnston’s ICS is an excellent example. Johnston has a long-term relationship with theatre
 companies, notably the RSC, developed through his translation of Spanish drama. In the ICS
 presented here, he has extended the impact of his research beyond the translation of plays into
 the application of translation theory to the process of dramatological interpretation and training.
 His more recent work with the RSC has led to consideration of the act of translation in
 productions of Shakespeare in China and of Chinese classics in the UK leading to a
 diversification of the repertoire in both countries.

 Interdisciplinarity: Members of the UoA employ a diverse range of theoretical frameworks and
 methodological approaches (including, for instance, philosophy, history, anthropology,
 education, postcolonial studies, film studies, linguistics, art history, medical humanities, digital
 humanities, translation studies, disability studies). Our commitment to interdisciplinarity is
 evidenced by placement in journals such as Word and Image, New Media & Society, Digital
 Scholarship in the Humanities and Journal of Urban Cultural Studies, as well as in partnerships,
 collaborations and funding successes (see 4 below). National recognition for our interdisciplinary
 research culture is demonstrated by the appointment of Holmes to the REF2021 Interdisciplinary
 Research Advisory Panel.

 The UoA supports interdisciplinarity through a number of means:

       Its annual flagship Languages Research Showcase provides a platform for
        interdisciplinary dialogue which has included colleagues in Architecture, English, History,
        Geography, and Music.


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       It provides financial support for interdisciplinary conferences such as ‘Cultures of
        Intimacy in the Nineteenth Century’ and ‘Modernity and Aesthetics’ (see Sections 2 and
        4), and has contributed financially to international residencies, such as that by Brazilian
        documentary-maker, Maria Augusta Ramos.
       Languages colleagues lead a range of interdisciplinary ventures both within Queen’s
        (Postcolonial Studies Forum, Centre for Translation and Interpreting, Centre for
        Eighteenth-Century Studies) and externally (International Crime Fiction Research Group,
        International Nineteenth-Century Research Network).
       Reading groups within the UoA have become increasingly interdisciplinary. The
        Transformative Cultures group has expanded into an inter-faculty collaboration with
        colleagues in Law, Anthropology, Geography, Psychology and Management. A recent
        public-facing event involved prestigious international scholars Peggy Phelan
        (Performance Studies, Stanford) and Isabell Lorey (Queer Studies, European Institute for
        Progressive Cultural Policies) (see Section 4: Wider Contribution).

 Several research grants are grounded in interdisciplinary excellence. For example, the AHRC-
 funded MEITS project included collaboration with cognitive neuroscience researchers and the
 Leverhulme-funded Chronometrics project involved collaboration with a computing science
 engineer specialising in Artificial Intelligence. Fellowships awarded to McCusker (BA Mid-
 Career), Wilson (AHRC Leadership), and Tavares (Leverhulme), for example, were successful
 because of their interdisciplinary engagement with art, medical science, and film, respectively, in
 projects on race and skin colour, illness, and gender politics.
         Our interdisciplinary ethos encompasses PhD supervision. We secured two Marie Curie
 SPARK fellowships; both projects are interdisciplinary in profile and methodology with
 supervisors in different faculties at QUB, as well as third supervisors in Belgium and China.
 Other interdisciplinary supervisory collaborations include staff within QUB (e.g. Film, English,
 History, Architecture), as well as international colleagues (Université Libre de Bruxelles; Paris X;
 Caen).
         Current and potential REF impact case studies are based on research which is pushing
 at the boundaries of interdisciplinary possibilities. Johnston is bringing the methods, insights and
 anxieties of translation to the attention of theatre practitioners and audiences at home and
 abroad. Holmes has collaborated with a composer, an electronic engineer and a video
 maker/activist to develop a sound installation about police violence in Brazil. Wilson is working
 with medics on issues such as the benefits of multilingualism for tackling autism, mild cognitive
 impairment, and dementia, as well as effective communication within medical practices in
 Namibia.

 Open Access: The Unit abides by the University’s OA policy covering journal articles,
 conference papers, book chapters and other forms of publication (Institutional Statement §2f). A
 dedicated OA team flags non-compliant outputs and produces monthly reports to authors. Our
 UoA submission includes one instance of a non-compliant journal contribution where the
 researcher (Harding) had just joined the University and missed the compliance deadline.

 Research Integrity: All research involving human participants and their data is reviewed by the
 AEL Research Ethics Committee. The Committee is chaired by the School Ethics Officer
 (currently a member of the UoA) who is a member of the School Research Committee. All
 proposals are reviewed in strict accordance with the ESRC’s Framework for Research Ethics



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and aligned with Queen’s governance policies (https://www.qub.ac.uk/Research/Governance-
 ethics-and-integrity/Research-integrity/).

 2. People
 The Unit’s long-term staffing strategy is designed to ensure a sustainable research base. This is
 achieved through the appointment of a combination of research leaders and ECRs who have
 demonstrated significant potential. We made substantial investment in the previous REF cycle
 through the appointment of two new Chairs, and with promotions we now have six professors in
 Languages. Several other appointments in that period laid strong foundations and we have
 retained all but five of our staff since REF2014, one of which was a retirement. Strategic
 investment in the growth area of Translation enabled the appointment of two new lecturers to the
 UoA (Harding at SL and Sadler). Three other appointments in Spanish (Lawless, O’Rawe) and
 Portuguese (Tavares) introduced new strands into our research portfolio and strengthened
 existing ones, as well as increasing our expertise in Latin America and extending reach into
 postcolonial Africa.
         The CDRG structure (see Section 1) has helped forge a tight-knit community of scholars
 within the broader institutional framework and the resulting collegiality and common purpose has
 enabled members of the Unit to thrive. This is demonstrated through the promotion of 12
 members of staff to Senior Lecturer in this REF period (half the total staff), many of whom have
 already taken up leading roles within the Discipline (see Section 4 below). This investment in the
 UoA, underpinned by a highly supportive staff development process, will secure the
 sustainability of the Unit in the new decade and ensure that there will be sufficient staff to fill
 leadership roles within the Unit and the wider discipline in the future.

 Staff development: Staff development is supported through an annual review process. From
 2019, the annual appraisal process was replaced by a rolling Personal Development Review.
 The new process, produced in consultation with colleagues through the Staff Forum, is focused
 on building the capability of staff through an ongoing conversation between Reviewer and
 Reviewee. Staff assess progress against previously agreed priorities, with year on year planning
 situated within a more holistic framework that relates the distinctiveness of individual profiles to
 wider career aspirations. This allows for a more informal, continuous process of constructive
 ownership.
         ECRs undertake a formal induction course and are assigned a mentor and a reviewer
 (formerly a probationary committee); both provide advice and guidance while the latter also
 monitors progress against targets. ECRs are afforded a lighter teaching and administrative load
 during their three-year probation in order to accelerate their research development. In addition,
 all new permanent staff are given a £4000 as a start-up fund to kick-start research and
 networking. All PDRAs and fixed-term staff benefit from the same probationary arrangements in
 terms of mentoring, monitoring, training and integration into the broader research culture, and
 they can apply for funding for research and conferences on the same basis as permanent staff.
 These arrangements ensure that the School’s support for PDRAs is entirely in line with the core
 principles of the ‘Concordat to support the career development of researchers’. An indication of
 the success of our approach is that two of our PDRAs, Henderson and Kane, were nominated
 for the QUB Postdoc awards 2020, while others have progressed to posts elsewhere, for
 instance, Arbuthnot (Faclair na Gáidhlig, Glasgow), Nic Lochlainn and Dunleavy (DCU), Plunkett
 (UCD), Collins (Glasgow), Black (East Anglia), McAuley (Aston), Illingworth (Leicester), Galbarro
 García (Sevilla), Verget-Couret (Poitiers), Fernandes (Santa Catarina, Brazil), Al-Maryani,
 (Basrah, Iraq), Al-Tarawneh (Zarqa, Jordan), Yangyang Long (Xi’an Jiaotong-Liverpool, China).

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          The Languages CDRG has also developed an additional opt-in (tailored) system of
 mentoring which extends the benefits of mentoring beyond the probationary period. The scheme
 offers confidential guidance and advice to participants and also offers support for publication
 plans, provides feedback on outputs at the preparatory/revision stages, and helps to identify
 funding schemes and provide feedback and advice on applications and reviewer reports. The
 success of this approach is evidenced by substantial increases in awards and fellowships during
 this cycle (see Section 3), but it also has had the effect of improving a sense of collegiality and
 strengthening links between senior and junior members of the team. The latter is a key priority
 for the UoA as evidenced by the three initiatives approved via the Vice Chancellors Research
 Culture Prize (see below).
          A key strategy in developing our staff is providing them with sufficient space to undertake
 scholarship and research. Dedicated research time is made available to all staff as part of the
 School’s Workload Model which allocates 40% of staff time to research, and staff are
 encouraged to designate a research day each week. Under the Faculty research leave policy, all
 research-active staff are eligible for sabbatical after six worked semesters; leave is granted on
 the basis of concrete plans that contribute to the aims of the research strategy. Staff also avail of
 external funding opportunities to obtain additional periods of funded leave (e.g. McCusker,
 Toner, Tavares, Wilson). Staff in Languages have made full use of the sabbatical system and
 have taken, on average, 2 semesters research leave each during this cycle.
          The CDRG currently receives an annual budget of £6000 from School Research Funds
 for research activities such as the research seminar series, plus an additional £5000 for
 conference organisation and publication support. The Centre for Translation and Interpreting
 receives a further £1600, and the School financially supports various interdisciplinary groups
 including the Postcolonial Studies Forum, the Centre for Eighteenth-Century Studies and
 Classical and Medieval Cultures. The School actively supports travel and conference
 attendance: all staff, temporary and permanent, can apply for up to £700 annually for travel
 within the UK, rising to £1000 for EU and £1500 for international destinations. There is also a
 School-wide fund to support public engagement and impact, as well as a Faculty-wide Research
 Initiative Fund.
          The unit has gained an additional £15k award from the Vice Chancellor’s research
 culture prize to further enhance the development of our staff. Through this award, we have
 implemented three new initiatives: an ML@QUB branded International Visiting Fellowship
 scheme with emphasis on fostering collaboration and on the diffusion of skills and knowledge; a
 Research Initiation scheme (see below - Research Students) centred on fostering next-
 generation researchers at UG final year and PGT level; and an annual Impact fund open to EC
 and post-doctoral researchers which is designed to support up to three early-stage projects and
 to open up spaces for experimentation.

 Research Students: During this cycle, the UoA had 54.5 PhD completions averaging over two
 per member of staff. Of 93 PGR students who commenced their studies since the start of the
 cycle, including 45 home, 42 overseas and 6 EU students, 26 have now graduated leaving the
 cohort at the end of the cycle standing at 67. PGRs are funded primarily by the Northern Ireland
 Department for Employment; 14 students have been funded under Northern Bridge DTP2 which
 operates under six universities. A significant number of students are funded by their home
 institutions or governments, most notably in Jordan and Saudi Arabia as well as Libya, Mexico
 and China. We also have also had increasing success with other external funders, such as
 Marie-Curie and Leverhulme.



                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This level of recruitment is underpinned by the three main strands of our PGR recruitment
 strategy:
      1) Languages runs two dedicated MA programmes in Translation and Interpreting which
      recruit an average of 45 students nationally and internationally, including large cohorts from
      the Middle East and China, many of whom proceed to undertake doctoral study with us.

     2) We participate in a Faculty-led MRes programme with a strong focus on research
     development and training to equip students for doctoral research. Individual tuition and
     small group teaching, together with cross-Faculty interdisciplinary modules, provide an
     important vehicle for nurturing strong PGR applications.

     3) We use funding opportunities such as Marie-Curie to attract EU students to undertake
     doctoral research with us. Similarly, we have used external funding attached to research
     projects (e.g. Leverhulme and AHRC) to attract doctoral students to work on specific
     research projects.

 Recently, as noted above, the Unit has developed a Research Initiation scheme, based on
 models currently used in Brazil. This is designed to integrate Masters students into research
 projects through short-term ‘immersive’ placements, internships and motivational awards.
 Several awards have been made but the activities were severely impacted by the Covid
 lockdown.

 Training, Development and Supervision: All new research students are assigned a primary
 supervisor with expertise in the field and a secondary supervisor in a cognate area or in another
 relevant discipline. In the case of Northern-Bridge funded students, a third supervisor is often
 appointed from one of the other universities within the consortium. A minimum of ten primary
 supervisions are scheduled a year in addition to five full team meetings in accordance with
 University regulations. We aim to provide a high-quality experience and, indeed, Torres was
 shortlisted in the Times Higher Outstanding Research Supervisor category in 2016. Following an
 initial Training Needs Analysis, the supervisory team takes responsibility for more specialised
 disciplinary training (e.g. in databases, quantitative methods, and translation technologies), while
 generic and high-level transdisciplinary training is provided by the University’s Graduate School
 (Institutional Statement §3c). All our research students are members of this broader Graduate
 School community and many have gained work experience and accredition through the
 Researcher Plus and Graduate Plus programmes.
          Training for PGR students is also supported by a variety of Northern Bridge events such
 as the Public Policy Workshop (Durham 2018), which focussed on the impact of academic
 research on policy making, broadcasting and outreach to disadvantaged communities, and a
 Cohort Event on publishing and Open Access (Queen’s 2019). These events broaden the
 networking horizons of students to include students and staff from other institutions as well as
 engaging them with key individuals from cultural organisations who may provide employment
 opportunities or pathways to impact.
          Postgraduate and postdoctoral researchers are fully integrated into the research culture
 of the CDRG through membership of reading groups, workshops, conference training etc. They
 play a particularly prominent role in the annual Research Showcase as members of radically
 conceived panels, performing key roles (e.g. critical interventions with supervisors) and
 roundtable debate with external speakers. ‘Supervisor-Student Critical Interaction’ sessions
 comprise an open discussion between student and supervisor in front of an audience. This Q&A
 format showcases the varying styles of supervisor-student relationship and presents the project
 to an audience in an innovative way as an ongoing dialogue. Vox Pop sessions allow students to

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 present their research succinctly to a varied audience and broaden the range of critical
 perspectives on their work.
         All PhD students are given the opportunity to teach as part of their career enhancement
 and training in teaching and assessment is provided. Collaborations with doctoral award
 partners have facilitated placements. For example, SPaRK researcher Malevez recently
 completed a 6-month internship with her project partner Horta Museum in Brussels, Mollica
 undertook a 3-month placement at Madrid’s Biblioteca Nacional, and Illingworth completed a 6-
 month placement at the Bowes Museum (Co Durham) as part of his Northern Bridge award.
         Collaborative, organisational, leadership and publication skills are developed through
 involvement in PGR conference organisation. The UoA’s PGRs have taken a lead role in
 organising an average of two conferences each year, often working collaboratively with students
 in other disciplines. The table below lists only those conferences in which our PGRs have been
 either sole or co-organisers. Keynote speakers at these events include Susan Bassnett
 (Warwick), Michael Cronin (TCD), Max Silverman (Leeds), Samia Bazzi (Lebanese University),
 Dominique Bauer (Leuven), and Monique Eleb (Ecole nationale superieure d'architecture de
 Paris-Malaquais).

  Conference Title                                             Venue          Date
  International PG conference in Translation and               QUB            June 2014
  Interpreting
  Journée des doctorants de l’Adeffi                           QUB            March 2015
  Society for Francophone Postcolonial Studies PGR             QUB            May 2015
  Study Day, Memory/Amnesia
  Journée des doctorants de l’Adeffi 2016                      TCD            March 2016
  Public Engagement through Academic Research: A               QUB            Nov 2016
  Postgraduate Training Symposium,
  ASMCF-SSFH PG Study Day, Mobility/Immobility                 Nottingham     March 2017
                                                               University
  ASMCF-SSFH PG Study Day, Conflict                            IMLR           March 2018
  Cultures of Intimacy in the Nineteenth Century               QUB            April 2019
  Mobilities and Moorings: negotiating spaces and              QUB            May 2019
  identities in modern and contemporary French and
  Francophone culture
  Consolidating Your Career in Translation and Interpreting    QUB            Nov 2019
  ASMCF-SSFH PG Study Day, Breaking Silences                   QUB            March 2020
  Adeffi Journée des Doctorants                                Virtual        Sep 2020

         Many of our students have received subject association travel awards including the
 Bourse doctorale de l’Adeffi (in 2017 and 2018), the Society for French Studies Research
 Support Award (2019), AFLS 2014 Cambridge University Press scholarship, AHGBI Conference
 Postgraduate Bursary and the Nida Institute International Summer School (2015, 2019). Several
 students won prizes for conference papers, e.g. Association for the Study of Modern and
 Contemporary France Poster Presentation Prize (Illingworth 2015) and the Palgrave Prize for
 the best postgraduate paper at the Poetics and Linguistics Association conference (Hanna
 2017). Rickard was joint winner of the 2019 Peter Lang Young Scholars Competition in French
 Studies (awarded a monograph contract). Collins won the Michael Murphy Memorial Poetry
 Prize, awarded biennially for a distinctive first book of poetry in English published in Britain or


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Ireland (2019) and Illingworth was highly commended in the George Sand Association Memorial
 Prize for best thesis worldwide on the works of George Sand (2019).

 Monitoring and Support: The UoA, under the auspices of the School of Arts, English and
 Languages, supports a rigorous process of progression monitoring of PGR students in line with
 University Guidelines. This includes an initial report after three months, a differentiation process
 after nine months, and Annual Progress Review at the end of second and third years.
 Independent reviewers from outside the supervisory team receive written work from the student
 and meet face-to-face to discuss the work. The system allows robust and swift action to be taken
 to resolve any issues, as is reflected in the UoA’s strong record of successful submissions.

 Equality and Diversity: Our research ethos strives to enable every member of the UoA to
 realise their full potential, recognising that high levels of collegiality and collaboration are critical
 to their well-being. Our research culture thrives, therefore, on the premise that all members own
 an equal share in an intellectually ambitious programme that is designed to be both individually
 and collectively empowering. Regular CDRG planning and review meetings, into which PGRs
 and Postdocs are fully integrated, guarantee that every member of the group has a voice in the
 development of strategic activities.
          The Unit is committed to equality and diversity and to appointment/promotion on merit,
 irrespective of gender, marital status, dependants, religious belief or political opinion, race,
 disability, sexual orientation and age. We follow rigorous University policies regarding
 recruitment, promotion, and harassment/bullying (see Institutional Statement §3d), with all staff
 undertaking compulsory ‘Unconscious Bias’ training that includes key diversity and inclusion
 lessons. The openness of our research culture to diversity is evidenced by the senior research
 roles occupied by a wide range of staff: Director of Research (Torres), CDRG Lead (Sánchez
 Espinosa), REF Champion (Toner), PGR Lead (Bowskill and Tavares), and Chair of the Ethics
 Committee (Holmes). All roles are advertised internally with job descriptions, short-listing criteria
 and balanced interview panel membership.
          The UoA has a particularly healthy gender balance in staffing, including at Chair level
 (3F, 3M), and at SL (8F, 4M). In 2015, we were among the first AHSS Units in the UK, and the
 only ML unit, to be awarded an Athena Swan bronze award, now awarded again to the
 expanded School (2020). We organise all CDRG activities in line with our Athena Swan Action
 Plan. To accommodate caring responsibilities, meetings and research seminars are organised
 where possible between 10am-4pm. Maternity/adoption leave, of which there have been several
 in this cycle, counts as worked semesters for the purposes of calculating sabbatical leave and
 staff returning from parental leave are offered a teaching free semester, funded by Faculty, in
 order to re-engage with research. Remote working is facilitated by our policy of a weekly
 research day. Flexible working has also been supported where requested, for example, by
 reducing teaching hours to zero.
          In selecting outputs for REF, the Unit pioneered and mutually agreed a Code of Practice
 (CoP), the principles of which were subsequently adopted in the University’s CoP in consultation
 with staff more generally. All staff whose contracts include a significant responsibility for
 research were automatically deemed eligible for inclusion in REF. Research Assistants/Fellows
 were considered where it could be shown that their contracted research was independent. The
 CoP also outlines processes for the grading and selection of outputs by a Reading Group of
 disciplinary experts. External readers, all former RAE/REF panellists, were consulted on a wide
 range of outputs. Equality Impact Assessments examining the selection of outputs were carried
 out periodically. This assessment addressed the distribution of grades according to gender, age,

                                                                                                  Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 contract type, staff category, marital status, religion, disability, ethnicity, sexual orientation, and
 dependents. In order to ensure complete confidentiality of individual’s data, requests for
 reductions for individual staff circumstances were handled by the Research Policy Office as part
 of a voluntary process.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Research income has expanded dramatically in the period including awards totalling £6 million
 from RCUK (AHRC OWRI; AHRC Standard Grant, Leadership Fellow, and EC Fellowship); EU
 Marie Curie Fellowships; British Academy Mid-Career and Leverhulme Awards and Fellowships.
 The UoA developed a proactive strategy for research income which helped awards to climb
 annually from £358k in 2013/14 to a peak of £1.4 million in 2018/19 and 2019/20. This includes
 exponential increases in RCUK funding from £50k in 2013 to £741k in 2018 and in EU funding
 from negligible sums in 2013 to £547k in 2018.
         Research awards have further enhanced our capacity to make significant contributions to
 the discipline in terms of the creation of new knowledge and impact. The MEITS project, funded
 by the AHRC Open Worlds Research Initiative (OWRI), is a major £4 million collaborative project
 (Carruthers, Deputy PI and Ó Mainnín). It investigates how the perspectives of multilingual
 speakers impact on individuals and societies and has resulted in the publication of several policy
 papers including on the Irish Language Act (Dunleavy/Ó Mainnín) and Languages, Business,
 Trade and Innovation (Ayres Bennett/Carruthers). The AHRC also funded the eDIL project
 (Toner), resulting in the publication of a new edition of the historical dictionary and significant
 international impact (see ICS).
         Research funding has enabled us to enhance the vitality of the Unit through the
 recruitment of new talent, notably two Marie Curie Fellowships in Early Modern Spanish and
 French Linguistics respectively and the creation of 6 further PDRA posts. The MEITS project
 attracted 3 posts to Queen’s (Dunleavy, Nandi and Henderson), while the Northern Ireland
 Placenames Project, the Electronic Dictionary of the Irish Language and the Chronometrics
 project each created one PDRA position (Kane, Arbuthnot, and Han). These posts significantly
 enriched the research culture at Queen’s in the areas of artificial intelligence, linguistics and
 sociolinguistics and contributed materially to the advancement of our impact agenda.

 Research Funding and Strategies: The following systems are in place to ensure success in
 research applications:
 (i) early identification of potential projects and applicants in the light of calls from funders,
       including extension of previously successful projects;
 (ii) targeted support such as teaching relief and research leave to prepare applications;
 (iii) robust internal peer review of applications in which colleagues with experience of obtaining
       awards provide feedback to applicants on their proposals before submission.

 Nascent ideas for funded projects are also discussed at CDRG research-in-progress seminars,
 and in reading and writing groups such as the Transformative Cultures Group and the Futures
 group, both of which received funding from the Faculty Research Initiative Fund. The Research
 and Enterprise Directorate provides dedicated assistance to Languages staff in identifying the
 most appropriate funders for specific projects, developing applications beyond the initial stages,
 including the provision of legal advice, and in project management for major research grants.
 Staff in the Directorate have specialised expertise in dealing with applications to particular
 funders such as RCUK and EU (Institutional Statement §4b).


                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Operational and Scholarly Infrastructure: The sense of community in Modern Languages is
 enhanced by the location of staff and PGRs in close proximity to each other in a row of adjacent
 Victorian houses. Each member of staff has their own office with individual computers which are
 replaced on a rolling scheme every four years. PGRs have individual desk space in dedicated
 accommodation within the School. The University Library, which was extended in 2019, is a
 world-class facility that brings together wide-ranging library and computing services in a single
 location. It houses significant collections in Languages and Area Studies, and has extensive
 runs of the major journals. Its substantial collection of electronic resources, which includes all the
 major Humanities and Science databases, is available on- and off-campus. Collections are
 continually updated and staff can request books for purchase via a simple online form.
 Interlibrary loans are available to staff and PGRs via the Library website. Specialist holdings
 supporting our research include a major collection of Edward Bunting’s manuscripts from the
 18th and 19th centuries and the Hibernica Collection which holds 29,000 volumes of material
 relating to Ireland, including annotated copies from the library of the great Celtic scholar, T.F.
 O’Rahilly.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Increasing research collaborations was a core aim of our research strategy for 2014-19.
 Membership of and the building of networks are a fundamental aspect of this strategy. The unit
 has leadership positions in established networks which have produced significant outcomes.
 Lawless, for example, is co-founder of the International Network of Nineteenth-Century
 Hispanists which runs annual conferences in various universities (Museo del Romanticismo,
 Madrid in 2019) and has published a collection of essays with MUP (ed. Ginger and Lawless).
 Holmes is co-founder of REBRAC, the European Network of Brazilianists Working in Cultural
 Analysis. They have organised three conferences and several edited volumes have resulted
 (https://rebrac.net/). The Unit is also spearheading new networks such as the recently
 established AHRC-funded network Women, Religion, and Culture in Spain and Spanish
 America of which O’Rawe is PI.
          Members of the Unit have established major funded collaborations with external partners.
 Carruthers is Deputy PI of the MEITS OWRI consortium. Headed by Cambridge and with
 partners in Edinburgh, Nottingham, Bergen, Girona, Hong Kong and Peking, Carruthers and Ó
 Mainnín are leading on the ‘Sociolinguistic perspectives on multilingualism’ strand which
 explores timely issues of identity, diversity and social cohesion. Toner was PI on a collaborative
 project with Ní Mhaonaigh (Cambridge) for Phase III of the Electronic Dictionary of the Irish
 Language which resulted in a significant new edition of the Dictionary, an Impact Case Study
 and AHRC follow-on funding for impact. Jeannerod is leader of the interdisciplinary
 International Crime Fiction Research Group which has organised three major conferences in
 Queen’s and co-organised five conferences across Europe, as well as exhibitions and festivals.
 It has brought together hundreds of international scholars in the field and secured major grants
 (AHRC in 2013 and 2017; Horizon 2020 in 2018).
          Our strategy is designed to ensure that national and international collaborations result in
 more formalised networks with joint outputs and outcomes. For instance, arising out of
 Jeannerod’s collaborations with members of the AHRC-funded Visualizing Crime Fiction (2014-
 2015) (with Universities of Limoges and Debrecen), further collaborations involve Tadié and
 Goazin (Rennes). Outcomes include co-supervision of a PhD student with Prof Cotteret (Aix-
 Marseille), an online database on French-American Passages, and a collaboration with the
 LLSETI (Professor Lagorgette) on an academic monograph series. Wilson’s collaboration with

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Bourdeau (Louisiana at Lafayette) and Edwards (Adelaide) resulted in a special co-edited issue
 of Australian Journal of French Studies (2020). Holmes’ work with REBRAC (above) resulted in
 three conferences and several edited volumes. Sánchez’s collaboration with the Universidad
 Complutense Don Quixote project resulted in the publication of Primera edición de la Segunda
 parte del ingenioso caballero don Quijote de la Mancha, ed. Pereira and Infantes (2018).
         A further indicator of this collaborative outlook is the fact that a third of the staff (8
 members) are submitting at least one co-authored publication to REF 2021 (Blumczynski,
 Carruthers, Harding, Holloway, Jeannerod, Lawless, Toner, Torres). Members of the Unit have
 also developed innovative, internal interdisciplinary Reading Groups which co-evolve new ways
 of thinking about the processes of scholarship. For example, O’Rawe’s online reading group
 established the framework for the dialogue that took place in the first workshop of the AHRC
 Network Women, Religion, and Culture in Spain and Spanish America with plenary speaker
 Stephen Hart (UCL) (2018). Bowskill and O’Rawe’s Transformative Cultures Reading Group
 won the 2017 AHSS Faculty Research Initiatives Fund Award to support an interdisciplinary
 seminar on Jacques Rancière’s The Future of the Image, with guest speaker Oliver Davis.

 Wider contribution to society
 The UoA is committed to working with local and international partners beyond the academy, with
 the aim of serving the public and influencing policy and practice (see Impact Strategy above).
 The Queen’s strand of the MEITS project (above) focusses on multilingualism, social cohesion
 and conflict resolution in Northern Ireland. This involves collaboration with the East Belfast
 Mission, Co-Operation Ireland and the Department for Communities on developing
 confidence in the learning of Irish among the Protestant-Unionist-Loyalist community. As a
 contribution to the public debate on the Irish Language Act, MEITs has produced a briefing
 document on language policy for the Democratic Unionist Party and hosted a workshop for NI
 government departments (Health, Communities, Education) on multilingualism, health and well-
 being. Furthermore, the Northern Ireland Place-Name Project is contributing to social cohesion
 and improved understanding of the linguistic heritage of the region through its research into Irish
 placenames for NI government and local councils (see ICS).
          Education is an important sector for the UoA. As AHRC Leadership Fellow for Modern
 Languages, Carruthers has had a pivotal role in the development of a UK languages strategy
 and has co-organised workshops on policy with civil servants from Whitehall and the devolved
 regions. Her work contributed to an Ofqual review of grading boundaries leading to an
 adjustment of grading of French and German at GCSE and a similar review by the NI Council for
 the Curriculum, Examinations & Assessment (CCEA). Staff also work directly with schools. The
 Northern Ireland Place-Name Project participated in the School-University Partnerships
 Initiative showcasing research in schools in the Magherafelt Learning Partnership and is
 working with CCEA in the production of online learning resources for schools. Carruthers led a
 project, funded by AHRC Leadership Fellow scheme, bringing multilingual storytelling into
 schools to raise awareness of lesser used languages (Stranmillis Primary, Blythefield Primary).
          Staff also contribute to cultural enrichment more broadly through the representation of
 linguistic and cultural diversity, and we are particularly concerned with the interpretation of other
 cultures for a Northern Ireland audience. The Belfast Migrant Centre hosts ‘The Belonging
 Project’, an exhibition of migrants’ portraits and stories important to Northern Ireland immigrants.
 The MEITS project ran a pop-up Museum of Languages in four cities, including Belfast (2019),
 and the Transformative Cultures group led a sold-out public roundtable at the MAC theatre in
 Belfast which brought together academics, activists, politicians and curators to think through how
 conceptions of the future can limit or enable the possibility to enact change in society.

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          Artistic outputs are an important vehicle for accessing other cultures and these are
 actively promoted by staff. Torres brought an exhibition on Góngora to Belfast following
 previous stagings in Spain (Madrid, Córdoba, Murcia), Argentina (Rosario) and the Dominican
 Republic (Santo Domingo). This was its only showing at a UK venue and Torres narrated a short
 accompanying video produced by Culture NI. Moran delivered public lectures at the Ulster
 Museum's RESfest and the National Gallery Dublin. Cinema also features prominently in our
 activity. Holmes runs the Belfast Brazilian CineClub, screening Brazilian documentaries, and
 O’Rawe curated the Contemporary Argentine Film Festival (Belfast 2017). Film screenings have
 involved collaboration with Second Chance Cinema, BeanBag Cinema, and Queen’s Film
 Theatre and received support from Ébano Multimédia (Mozambique), the Instituto Camões
 (Portugal), and the Argentine Embassy.
          Just as we seek to showcase other cultures here, so we also hope to enrich the cultural
 experiences of other societies internationally. Holmes’s research contributed to a collaborative
 sound installation about police violence in Rio de Janeiro which was staged in Rio (twice in
 2016), Belfast (2018), London (2018), and Sydney (2018). Johnston collaborates with the Royal
 Shakespeare Company on ‘Unlocking Shakespeare in Chinese’ and ‘Translating the Chinese
 Classics’ (see the ICS). As part of an AHRC award, Harding used two workshops (2019) with
 undergraduate students at Mutah University, Jordan, on the theme of 'Our Place, our Stories' to
 engage participants in new ways of thinking about their environment and local history. Building
 on her postcolonial research, McCusker ran two workshops addressing race and whiteness with
 schoolchildren in Martinique and a further public seminar (at Bibliotheque Schoelcher
 Martinique). Carruthers, drawing on her research on oral narrative, gave talks in France
 (Vendôme and Toulouse) on French storytelling, and Jeannerod has delivered numerous talks
 on Crime Fiction for non-specialist audiences in France, Belgium, Brazil, and Romania as well
 as making several media appearances (see Impact Strategy).

 Sustainability of the Discipline and Wider Influence
 We take seriously our responsibility to contribute to the development of research in the
 discipline. One of our priority goals has been to add to the research infrastructure through
 journal editorship, the provision of critical editions of texts, and the creation of electronic
 resources. Carruthers has taken a national leadership role as AHRC Priority Area Leadership
 Fellow for Modern Languages, and our participation in MEITS is supporting the future of the
 discipline. Recent awards evidence outstanding contribution: e.g. Toner and Torres were elected
 members of the Royal Irish Academy and Torres as a Corresponding Fellow of the Spanish
 Royal Academy and Fellow of the British Academy.
          Staff across the full spectrum, from postdocs to professors, play an active role as editors
 of journals and book series. Lead editorial roles on journals are occupied by Torres who is
 executive general editor of the Bulletin of Spanish Studies (hosted by Queen’s); Blumczynski
 who is editor in chief of Translation Studies; Ó Mainnín, founding editor of Léann, and Toner,
 editor of Ainm: a journal of names studies. In addition, Jeannerod was general editor of Cahiers
 Frédéric Dard (2014-18); Toner is general editor of the Irish Texts Society and Topping is co-
 editor of Studies in Visual Culture. Other staff play prominent editorial roles, including Lawless,
 section editor, Open Library of Humanities; Bowskill, assistant editor, Journal of Gender
 Studies; Wilson, assistant editor, French Studies Bulletin; Holloway, assistant editor, the
 Bulletin of Spanish Studies; and McCusker who is literary editor of Island Studies Journal.
          A large number of staff serve on Editorial/Advisory Boards of journals including:
 Portuguese Studies (Holmes); Argotica (Jeannerod); Irish Journal for French Studies
 (McCusker, succeeded by Silvester); Cuadernos de Estudios del Siglo XVIII (Sánchez);

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Portuguese Literary & Cultural Studies (Tavares), Aiste (Ó Mainnín); Éigse (Toner), Discours
 and Journal of French Language Studies (Carruthers), Journal of Translation, Interpreting and
 Intercultural Communication (Harding), Journal of Adaptation in Film and Performance
 (Johnston); Studies in European Cinema (Topping); and Modern and Contemporary France
 (Wilson). Several members of the Unit sit on the editorial boards of significant book series
 including: Legenda Research Monographs in French (Carruthers); Peter Lang Spanish Golden
 Age (Holloway); Tamesis (Torres); Francophone Postcolonial Studies monograph series
 (McCusker); Amsterdam UP Interior Spaces (Moran); and Libros Dieciochistas (Sánchez).
 Postdocs have also contributed to editorial boards while working at Queen’s: Nandi on Open
 Linguistics; McAuley on Society & Policy; and Dunleavy on DeGruyter Open books in
 Linguistics.
         We contribute to the assessment of research at national and international levels, and
 several members of staff have served in the AHRC Peer Review College (Carruthers, Bowskill,
 Torres, Toner, Wilson). Torres is a member of REF 2021 sub-panel 26. and has been an
 international assessor on national review panels in Estonia and Portugal, while Sánchez was an
 assessor for Italy’s VQR (Valutazione della Qualità della Ricerca) 2016. Topping was an advisor
 for the EU Stakeholder Delegation on Horizon 2020 Priorities, Holmes serves on the
 Interdisciplinary Research Advisory Panel for REF 2021, and Moran is a reviewer for the
 Research Foundation (Flanders 2018-22). In addition, several members of staff have
 contributed to departmental research reviews: Toner (Notre Dame, Dublin Institute for
 Advanced Studies); Ó Mainnín (Cork, UCD, TCD, Glasgow); Topping (QMUL; Cork (Chair),
 Galway).
         Staff regularly provide external reviews for the Irish Research Council (Bowskill,
 Holloway, Ó Mainnín, Toner), and have contributed external reviews for the European Science
 Foundation (Toner); South Africa’s National Research Foundation (Blumczynski); Agence
 Nationale pour la recherche, France; Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council,
 Canada; Swiss National Science Foundation (all McCusker), and Autonome Provinz Bozen,
 Südtirol (Toner). Moran was an assessor for the Guggenheim Fellowship (2017) and Torres
 was an evaluator for the German Research Foundation Leibnitz Prize (2021).
         Staff perform leadership roles in subject associations including: International
 Association for Translation and Intercultural Studies (Harding, chair); Association of
 Hispanists of Great Britain and Ireland (Torres, President and Chair of Board of Trustees);
 Association of Irish and British Lusitanists (Tavares, Treasurer): Latin American Studies
 (Bowskill, Secretary); Ulster Place-Names Society (Ó Mainnín, President); MHRA (Holloway,
 Officer for Post-doctoral Scholarships); IMLR Advisory Board (Carruthers, Chair). Staff also sit
 on various executive/research committees including the International Association of
 Researchers in Popular and Media Cultures (Jeannerod), Association des études
 françaises et francophones d'Irland (Wilson), Royal Irish Academy’s Coiste Léann na
 Gaeilge (Toner), British Academy Languages Advisory Group (Carruthers), Society for
 Renaissance and Baroque Hispanic Poetry (Torres), and the International Advisory Board,
 Baker Centre for Translation at Shanghai University (Harding).
         We frequently act as external examiners for doctoral theses nationally and
 internationally, for example, Blumczynski: Glasgow (2019); Wrocław (2020); Torres: Zaragoza
 (2015); Córdoba (2016); Copenhagen (2017); KCL (2018); McCusker: Royal Holloway (2014);
 Oxford (2017); Sánchez: Córdoba (2014, 2019), Sheffield (2016), Valencia (2019), Granada
 (2019); Carruthers: Orleans (2015); Holloway: Cambridge (2019); Harding: Free State
 University, South Africa (2015); Ó Mainnín: Galway (2014), Edinburgh (2015), Glasgow



                                                                                         Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (2016); Toner: Edinburgh (2015); Cork (2015); Cambridge (2018); Trinity College Dublin
 (2019).

 Conference organisation
 The UoA has contributed to the wider research environment through the organisation of 31
 national and international conferences between 2014 and 2019 (the 2020 programme being
 disrupted by Covid). In addition to the 12 postgraduate-led conferences in section 2 above, staff
 organised the following:
 2014
  Translating Texts, Cultures and Values. Plenary: Prof. James Underhill (Rouen).
  French Autopathography: Disability, Disease and Disorders from First-Person Perspectives.
     Plenaries: Prof. Hannah Thompson (Royal Holloway) and Dr Tamar Tembeck (McGill,
     Montreal).
 2015
  Setting the scene: The Location of Crime Fiction. Keynotes: Prof Benoit Tadié (Rennes) and
     Prof Robb Kitchin (NUIM).
  San-Antonio International. Keynote: Prof Margaret Atack (Leeds).
  Imaginary Matters: Spanish Golden Age Colloquium.
 2016
  Negotiating the Language Barrier: Community, Identity and Conflict Transformation.
  Brazil in the Spotlight, second conference of REBRAC (European Network of Brazilianists
     Working in Cultural Analysis). Keynotes: Leonardo Tonus (Paris-Sorbonne IV), John
     Gledson (Liverpool).
  Association for French Language Studies Annual Conference. Plenaries: Myriam Bras
     (Toulouse), Philippe Hambye (Louvain-la-Neuve), Martin Howard (Cork).
 2017
  Modernity and Aesthetics in Europe. Guest speakers: Prof. Eugenia Afinoguénova
     (Marquette University); Dr Holly/Margaret Trusted (Victoria & Albert Museum); Dr Peter
     Garratt (Durham).
 2018
  L’Imaginaire médico-religieux: French Literary Perspectives. Plenaries: Prof. Vincent
     Kaufmann (Lausanne) and Prof. Enda McCaffrey (Nottingham Trent).
  French Medico-Textual Cultures. Plenaries: Prof. Holly Tucker (Vanderbilt) and Larry Duffy
     (Kent).
 2019
  Chinese Traits, Francophone Lines: The Value of Transcultural Creativity. Plenaries: Prof
     Gabrielle Parker (Middlesex), Dr Guillaume Thouroude (Nizwa University, Oman).
  UK Language Policy after Brexit. Plenary: Fiona Mackay (Director, Scotland's National
     Centre for Language Teaching).
  Languages in Conflict and Reconciliation. Keynotes: Alison Phipps (Glasgow), Hilary Footitt
     (Reading).
  Intimacy in 19th-Century France and Belgium. Plenaries: Prof. Dominique Bauer (KU Leuven)
     and Prof. Monique Eleb (École nationale supérieure d’architecture de Paris-Malaquais).
  New Methods for New Media Summer School. Funded by QUB Pump-priming fund (awarded
     £10,000 for summer school plus other network activities).
  ADEFFI (Association des études françaises et francophones d'Irlande). Plenary: Prof.
     Alexandre Gefen (CNRS-Université Paris 4).



                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    First workshop of the AHRC Network Women, Religion, and Culture in Spain and Spanish
     America 1900-2000. Plenary speaker Prof. Stephen Hart (UCL).
    Mozambique through literature, film & policy making. Knowledge Exchange Symposium.

 Several other conferences planned for 2020 were cancelled as a result of Covid-19 including
 Caribbean Generations: Ruptures, Traditions, Returns, Society of Dix-Neuviémistes annual
 conference, and the Irish Conference of Medievalists.
        Funding to support these conferences was obtained from a range of external
 organisations including the AHRC, MHRA, British Academy, Institute of Modern Languages
 Research, Acción Cultural Española, Society for French Studies, Association of British and Irish
 Lusitanists, and the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office, as well as Spanish, Brazilian and
 French embassies. The School and University routinely support conferences, and further funding
 has been contributed by Belfast City Council.

 Plenaries and Invited Lectures
 Plenaries/keynotes delivered by UoA staff include: Medieval and Renaissance Conference,
 Durham, 2017 (Torres); Annual Conference of the Association of American Classical Theatre, El
 Paso, 2015 (Johnston); International Congress of Celtic Studies, Glasgow, 2015 (Toner);
 Festival de Luz y Vanguardias, Salamanca, 2017 (Johnston); Les Langues minoritaires,
 Strasbourg, 2019 (Carruthers); ‘Ci-dit’ Conference, Haute Alsace, 2015 (Carruthers); Noire is
 the New Noir, American University of Paris, 2016 (Jeannerod); International Conference of
 English, American and Canadian Studies, Brno, 2020 (Harding); Inhabiting the Threshold,
 Madrid, 2019 (O’Rawe); Borders and Crossings, Juraj Dobrila University of Pula, Croatia, 2018
 (Topping).

 Staff at all levels have delivered numerous invited lectures, including: Ohio State, 2016; Oxford
 2016; Princeton, 2016 (Torres); Maria Curie-Skłodowska University, 2019 (Blumcynzki); Oxford
 2019 (Tavares); Beirut 2019 (Harding); Glasgow, 2014; Dublin Institute for Advanced Studies,
 2016 (Ó Mainnín); Cambridge, 2018 (Toner); UCL, 2019, Madrid, 2018 (O’Rawe); Vienna, 2016
 (Eardley-Weaver); Edinburgh, 2016 (Holmes); IMLR, 2017 (Wilson); SOAS, 2018 (Harding);
 Manchester, 2020 (Sadler); Debrecen, 2014; Bordeaux, 2015; Saint Denis, La Réunion, 2015;
 Rennes, 2019; (Jeannerod); Antwerp 2015; Leuven, 2017 (Moran).




                                                                                          Page 17
