Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Institution: University of the West of England, Bristol

Unit of assessment: 20 Social Work and Social Policy

Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Context, structure, synergies and thematic focus
This unit of assessment, comprising the work of 47 staff (41.5 FTE) with significant responsibility for
research, is based in the Faculty of Health and Applied Sciences (HAS). The particular focus is on
two, inter-linked thematic areas: 1) Sustainable Communities, and 2) Wellness, Wellbeing and
Policy. Staff include ten Professors, fourteen Associate Professors, eighteen Senior Lecturers, three
Senior Research Fellows, and two Research Fellows, including three early career researchers at the
census date.

The unit’s research is strongly interdisciplinary and challenge-based, combining academic
excellence with policy relevance, including policy evaluation. Since the last assessment period, the
Sustainable Communities theme has grown significantly through a rapid expansion of research
income for data driven research, theory-based evidence applications, and lay public involvement and
engagement in research. Similarly, the Wellness, Wellbeing and Policy thematic area has further
strengthened engagement with key external partners and interlocutors.

Four research clusters, with strong interconnecting ties and shared history, provide strategic
research leadership and management structures to facilitate the delivery of research excellence.

          The Centre for Appearance Research (CAR) Co-Directors, Professor Harcourt (submitted to
           UoA3, Allied Health Professions) and Associate Professor Slater;
          The Centre for Public Health and Wellbeing (CPHWB) Director, Professor Powell;
          The Psychological Sciences Research Group (PSRG) Co-Directors Associate Professor
           Halliwell and Senior Lecturer Thompson M.; and
          The Social Sciences Research Group (SSRG) Director, Professor McCartan.

These research clusters draw on integrated expertise across a wide range of disciplines including
the social sciences, public health and the therapeutic and social care professions. There are also
strong links between social policy and other UWE researchers where interdisciplinarity enhances our
work, for example the Centre for Spatial Planning and Environments (UOA 13) and the Centre for
Health and Clinical Research (UOA 3).

Achievement of Strategic Aims and Objectives, 2014-2020
a) A key aim of the unit’s 2020 research strategy was to secure an increased volume of research
income from internationally excellent and world leading research with impact that contributes to a
sustainable economy and society.

Growth in the volume of annual average research income from £568,694 per annum in REF 2014 to
£1,036,000 per annum in REF 2021 was underpinned by significant research grants from high profile
funders within our two thematic areas. These included the UK Prevention Research Partnership
(UKPRP), Wellcome Trust, Leverhulme Trust, NIHR, European Union, Unilever plc and the UK
Research Councils.

Evaluative research with a particular focus on addressing vulnerabilities and inequalities has been a
key aspect of our Sustainable Communities research since 2014. This research has worked to
inform and influence policy and practice at local, regional, national and international levels. There
has been a breadth of focus across different countries, settings, sectors and groups with the aim to
build self-esteem, confidence, social cohesion and resilience. Examples have included:

            Within countries (e.g. Dove Self-Esteem Project: Developing and evaluating evidence-
             based body image programmes – Diedrichs);

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
            Within communities (e.g. Tackling the Root Causes Upstream of Unhealthy Urban
             Development (TRUUD) – Pilkington);
            Within schools (e.g. Evaluation of the Food for Life Partnership: transforming food culture
             in schools and new settings – Jones);
            Within institutions (e.g. Evaluation of Avon and Somerset Constabulary Engage Navigate
             Divert (ASCEND) Initiative – Walmsley)

Research under the Sustainable Communities theme has also taken a socio-ecological, systems
level, multi-sector approach to global security and public participation, for example:

          McCartan’s research funded by the Leverhulme Trust explored community engagement and
           partnership working in facilitating sex offender reintegration within police and probation
           services internationally;
          Jones, funded by the Soil Association National Centre for Organic Food and Farming
           examined how food system security and sustainability might be ensured, developing
           knowledge of growing and cooking together across age groups and bringing generations
           together through food;
          The work of recently retired Kent and Meacham with the Bristol Centre for Synthetic Biology
           (BCSB): Towards Functional, Encapsulated, Synthetic-biological Systems, funded through
           the BBSRC, explored how the gendered dimensions of human donation and exchange are
           situated within the contemporary global order.

Within Wellness, Wellbeing and Policy, there has been innovative work on community development
approaches to mental wellbeing and ageing through the life course. Enhancement of mental
wellbeing through individual therapies and psycho-social support interventions has constituted
another important area of externally funded research. For example:

    Jones was Principal Investigator (PI) of a challenge-based project, Researching Social
     Isolation and Loneliness in later Life for the Bristol Ageing Better Partnership funded by the Big
     Lottery 2014-2020. The research explored how community development can act to better link
     people with public and voluntary sector services and support people to participate in
     community activities.
    Powell was PI of a realist research project for the Centre for Ageing Better on the Role of
     Home Adaptations in Improving Later Life. The report findings were cited in the Communities
     and Local Government Select Committee’s Housing for Older People Inquiry published in
     February 2018.
    Bray was PI of a Wellcome Trust grant that applied data and evidence to demonstrate the link
     between improvements in mental wellbeing and natural environments. The study concluded
     that exposure to natural environments can prevent and treat depression and anxiety in young
     people.
    Halliwell, Jenkinson and Slater examined the impact of social media on body image,
     developing interventions to promote positive body image. Malson and Halliwell considered
     the treatment of eating disorders and impact of discrimination and body shaming, and Keeling
     explored the impact of conflict trauma on mental health, employment, family life and
     relationships during transition from military service to civilian life.
    Holt and Ward’s research explored the role of participatory arts and cognitive therapies in
     therapeutic practice for mental wellbeing, and Bunt’s research built capacity to deliver creative
     arts therapy to children and young adults among teachers in European universities and
     schools.

b) A second aim of our research strategy was to increase the significance and reach of impact of our
research.

The unit’s four submitted impact case studies are illustrative of the significant reach of our research,
addressing inclusion (body confidence), safety (reducing offending), security (British Overseas
Territories and Brexit) and diversity (living with dementia). Networks, partnerships, communities of


                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
practice, relationships with stakeholders, and use of media were important components used to
deepen and spread impact underpinned by high-quality research.

    Diedrichs, Halliwell and Lewis-Smith partnered with Unilever, UNICEF and the World
     Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts (WAGGGS) to innovate and translate digital and
     face-to-face body image interventions to promote body confidence extending reach to over 30
     million young people worldwide.
    McCartan partnered with international networks in the Council of Europe and Circles of
     Support and Accountability to reduce offending and reintegrate people convicted of a sexual
     offence back into the community in Europe, the UK, New Zealand and Latvia.
    Clegg, an acknowledged expert on the British Overseas Territories, has established strong,
     longstanding relationships within European and UK governments and networks representing
     Commonwealth countries. His research influenced the work of stakeholders and policymakers
     in London and Brussels, mitigating risk by helping the British Overseas Territories navigate
     Brexit.
    Cheston worked with the Research Institute for the Care of Older People (RICE) memory
     clinic in Bath and had an honorary contract with Avon & Wiltshire Partnership Trust (AWP).
     Highly regarded for his research on cultural dementia studies, empathetic, therapeutic practice
     in dementia care and introducing others to his approach and philosophy, Cheston’s research
     and practice led to an effective training course and ‘how to do’ resource materials to educate
     practitioners and trainers in the ‘living with dementia’ approach. ‘Living with dementia’
     transformed community dementia services in Bristol promoting cultural wellbeing, inter-agency
     partnership working and expanding diversity of beneficiaries in communities.

c) A third strategic aim was Engaging in activist and interventionist research underpinned by data
and evidence that engages with real world issues, as a locally embedded civic university with
national and international reach.

The nature of social identities including class, race, gender, sexuality and religion and their role in
influencing cultural and social practices, community relations and public policies constituted a crucial
strand of research. Examples include;

    Mulholland’s research funded by the ESRC and British Academy, examined social diversity in
     the contemporary nation state, with a particular focus on French highly skilled migrants in
     London's financial and business sectors.
    Leonard’s global security and counter terrorism research and related networks augmented the
     work of Cole considering migrant displacement and human rights, McGlinchey’s research on
     arms race and defence, and Mathers and Tava’s on international social movements.
    Karamalidou’s work explored human rights litigation and practice to develop European penal
     discourse and prison reform, while Thompson S. examined the expression of religious
     identities and symbolism with respect to the control of public space, highlighting the
     importance of the politics of place making in design of the urban realm.
    Carter’s research on the social and cultural production of coupledom had implications for
     social theory and public policy, providing a template of domestic living possibilities. Coffey’s
     spoke to the emotional regulation inherent in birth heritage and family naming practices among
     adoptive parents. And Mackay’s work engaged with the impact and transition of radical
     feminism.

d) The fourth aim of our research strategy focused on supporting and growing a diverse complement
of PGRs, PDRs and Fellowships in order to broaden the unit’s research base and ensure
sustainability in key thematic areas.

The upward trajectory of PGR completions since the last assessment period has been driven by an
increase in partnership and sponsorship, as well as by self-funding and strategic investment in
studentships by the University. For this unit, seven PhD completions were reported in RAE 2008 and
19 in REF 2014. Over this REF assessment period, the number of PGR completions has risen to 56,
comprising 32 PhDs, 19 Professional Doctorate awards in Health and Social Care, Counselling and

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Health Psychology, and five DPhils.

The unit also secured high profile Post-doctoral Fellowships from the European Commission and
Leverhulme Trust. This includes White’s Marie-Sklodowska Curie Individual Senior Research
Fellowship, which resulted in resources targeted at Sex and Relationships Education (SRE) and a
film based on findings from a peer ethnography study involving young people in the development of
designated sexual health services. These resources will be used in the training of school teachers
for the new UK statutory SRE curricula.

There is a well-established and self-sustaining infrastructure to attract and support postgraduate and
postdoctoral researchers. In 2016, UWE was invited to participate in the health and wellbeing inter-
disciplinary pathway of the ESRC South West Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) with the
Universities of Bristol, Bath and Exeter. This arose from achieving ESRC thresholds regarding the
quality of our social science research in health and wellbeing disciplines, based on REF 2014
outcomes. This collaboration has led to UWE emerging as a key South West destination for
interdisciplinary doctoral researchers in health and wellbeing, securing eight ESRC DTP
studentships, with two fully funded PGR students in this unit since 2017. McClean, in his role as
UWE’s DTP lead for the health and wellbeing pathway, has shaped the unit’s PGR vision and offer
around our areas of research excellence, promoted our work through DTP networks, and identified a
range of doctoral research funding opportunities where we are and can continue to be competitive in
the future. The DTP will provide further opportunities to expand our postdoctoral population and to
build on our collective reputation to leverage opportunities from other funders and a range of
research partners. ESRC DTP membership also provides eligibility for ESRC Global Challenges
Research Fund (GCRF) Research Fellowship funding which aligns with our strategic priority to
promote interdisciplinary, global, challenge-based research.

Open Research, Governance and Ethics
Our research practice is framed by UWE’s Code of Good Research Conduct (2016), the Data
Protection Standard for Research and associated training initiatives led by a central research
governance team. Staff fully adhere to the practices of research integrity, open access, ethics, and
equality and diversity practices, as described in the Institutional-level Statement. In addition, Kent
and Evans have played prominent roles in developing and promoting best practice in governance
and ethics across the institution, both having chaired the University’s Research Ethics Committee
during the REF period.

Tava led the Data Research, Access, and Governance Network (DRAGoN), an international
interdisciplinary research network and online forum that brought together researchers and
practitioners from academia, think-tanks, industry and government to create an environment for
discourse, bringing different perspectives together for the wider benefit of the public.
More generally in support of research integrity, the unit widened staff participation in research
ethics/governance activities by refreshing and extending the pool of scrutineers available to the
Faculty Research Ethics Committee (FREC), and awarded certificates and CPD points for mandated
Data Protection and Information Security training.

Future Strategy and Plans
We are ambitious to build on our existing strengths and consolidate our research profile in our core
thematic areas. These will align with UWE Bristol’s new Research Strategy 2030, which identifies
four research beacons: Digital Futures, Health and Wellbeing, Creative Industries and Technologies,
and Sustainability and Climate Change Resilience (see the Institutional Statement). The unit is well
placed to make a strong contribution to these beacons of research excellence, especially but not
exclusively in the areas of Health and Wellbeing and Sustainability.

Our plans build around our existing strengths and the UWE 2030 strategy with the following specific
aims:
  I. Secure an increasing volume of research income from internationally excellent
      interdisciplinary, challenge-based, policy relevant research with impact on wellness and
      wellbeing, creating sustainable communities and environments.

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 II.   Increase the breadth and in particular the international reach of research collaborations,
       partnerships and knowledge exchange activities aligned with the two thematic areas of
       strength.
III.   Extend the advocacy, evaluative and policy formation aspects of our research, intervening in
       major debates and issues including: post-pandemic society; sustainability; climate change, and
       mitigating vulnerabilities and inequalities.
IV.    Further expand and integrate our talent pipeline of postgraduate alumni, PGRs and PDRs into
       our research culture to help ensure continuity and sustainability across research activities and
       diversity of the research base.

Each cluster will translate these aims into specific plans.

The Centre for Appearance Research plans to maintain its status as the leading centre for
appearance research worldwide. In addition to its research, CAR contributes significantly to
enterprise and entrepreneurship activities in the visible difference and appearance discrimination
charitable sector. These areas, coupled with advocacy and activism around promoting positive body
image and body confidence and the impact of conflict trauma on family, employment, relationships
and mental wellbeing, have significant future potential for challenge-based research and to scale up
local impact globally.

The Centre for Public Health and Wellbeing will continue to focus on internationalizing its
research, taking a socio-ecological, systems level, multi-sector approach to the design of healthy
and sustainable environments and promoting wellness and wellbeing through community
development and public participation. CPHWB will continue to secure funding from NIHR, Wellcome
Trust and other competitive funding sources, supporting sustainable growth and regeneration
through partnerships with international business, non-governmental organizations and charities
leading to significant expansion in its international focus, scale and reach of impact.

The Psychological Sciences Research Group integrates disciplines from the behavioural and
applied sciences to support emotional regulation and recovery for living well, ageing well and mental
health resilience. PSRG will further develop strategic partnerships with business to exploit expertise
in several areas, including therapeutic practice. The cluster, with the support of the University, will
enhance its research leadership capacity through staff progression.

The Social Sciences Research Group provides coherence to an interdisciplinary community of
applied social scientists, increasing global partnerships and networks and internationalizing its
research with impact across key thematic areas such as criminal justice, global security,
governance, human rights, relationships and transitions. In the next assessment period the SSRG
will further strengthen its engagement through proactive networking and external research funding,
enhancing its partnerships with the public and third sectors, extending workforce development and
enhancing skills, enterprise and entrepreneurship in the not for profit sectors.

Section 2. People

Staffing strategy and staff development
There has been a clear strategy to recruit, retain and develop high-achieving researchers at all
career stages. Our approach to staff development has been to enhance our capacity to recruit and
retain high quality staff, and to promote equality, diversity, inclusivity, employee engagement and
career opportunities. Approaches to recruiting and developing staff with research potential, early and
mid-career researchers and experienced research leaders with good strategic fit, has worked in
combination to drive forward the implementation of our research and impact strategies.

Effectiveness of staff recruitment policy
There has been a significant increase in the number of staff represented in the REF 2021
submission; 41.5 FTE (40% of academic staff) compared with 19.8 FTE (20% of staff) in REF 2014.



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
During the reporting period, Diedrichs and McCartan, were promoted to Professor from Senior
Research Fellow and Senior Lecturer respectively via Associate Professor, and are both leading
impact case studies in this unit; Clegg, Halliwell, Jones, McClean, and Pilkington progressed from
Senior Lecturer to Associate Professor, and Slater from Senior Research Fellow to Associate
Professor. These promotions reflected strategic investment to strengthen areas of excellence,
augmented by additional appointments. For example, Professor Leonard recruited in 2018 and
Associate Professor Mulholland appointed in 2017, extended our expertise in global security and
human rights research. Carter was recruited in 2017 to a ‘new-blood’ post, a University initiative with
a fast track to Associate Professor.

Early Career Researcher Ismail progressed from Research Associate to Senior Lecturer and Early
Career Researcher Ige from Research Associate to Research Fellow, boosting capacity for research
in sustainable communities. Associate Professor Gibson recruited in 2016, has generated significant
research income and national and regional leadership for public involvement. Promotion of post-
doctoral and early career researcher Lewis-Smith, a member of the Diedrich’s body confidence
impact case study team, from Research Associate to Senior Research Fellow, further increased
capacity and expertise in CAR.

Effectiveness of staff development policy
Staff development policies and initiatives apply to academic and postdoctoral research fellows
equally.

Competitive internal awards provide funding, dedicated time and mentoring to support early-stage
researchers to achieve independence, generate quality outputs, access collaborative networks to
facilitate impact, and bid development for external funding.

Over the assessment period, Jenkinson, Keeling, Lewis-Smith and Slater were successful in an
annual competition for Vice Chancellor’s Early Career Researcher Awards (VCECR). The VCECR
awards accelerate progression to research independence, support research skills development and
achievement of significant research responsibility. Tava, among five others, was awarded research
establishment time and Dowling research progression time. Further, De Viggiani and Walmsley
benefitted from tailored support and development for selected ‘mid-career’ academic staff through
the Vice-Chancellor’s Accelerator Programme, both securing external research funding in the latter
stages of the assessment period. All members of the unit received internally funded research time
through competitive internal processes (see Section 3). In addition, departmental support has been
provided to Bird, Jones, Ismail, Ige and Lewis-Smith, to undertake and/or complete PGR studies,
for example through study time, contributions to fees, or a combination of both.

Research cluster activities, systematic mentoring and peer review have been key to supporting the
development of individual and collaborative projects and high-quality outputs. The importance of
impact is embedded in the research culture through staff interviews for academic appointments,
expectations set within induction week, during probation, annual professional development reviews
(PDRs), applications for internally funded investment, job descriptions, and progression and
promotion evaluations. Staff are encouraged and supported to build real world impact into their
research activity at every level, beginning with the conception and design of the research itself.
All early career academic staff and researchers are allocated a mentor to support the probationary
year and the development of research capability. There are several mentoring schemes available to
staff in the unit at all career stages, but these are utilised particularly by early career researchers,
including the Women in Research Mentoring Scheme, to support equality, diversity and inclusivity in
research career progression and achievement. After the first year of probation, PDRs are used to
develop career pathways for research as well as learning and teaching, knowledge exchange and
leadership, in line with strategic priorities.

All staff are allocated scholarly activity time and are encouraged to discuss the use of this time,
equivalent to five weeks each year pro rata, and research more generally, in their PDRs and with
their line managers. This may include encouragement and support to secure visiting research
fellowships, several of which were undertaken during the review period. For example, Mitcheson

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
received a grant from the German Academic Exchange Service for a one-month research visit to the
Freie Universität, Berlin to undertake research contributing to her book on Visual Art and Self-
Construction. Clegg was funded by KITLV/Royal Netherlands Institute of Southeast Asian and
Caribbean Studies in Leiden, Netherlands to undertake collaborative research on the ‘Three
Guianas’, resulting in one edited book and three peer-reviewed papers.

Staff recruitment and development policies supported the achievement of research independence for
six staff on fixed term contracts and three early career researchers to achieve significant research
responsibility (as defined at the REF census point). Staff in the unit show a balanced distribution
across the age range profile; the modal age category 45-54 years contained 18% of unit staff at the
census date. Age categories 44 years and under contained 40% of staff, and 42% were 55 years
and above, suggesting a healthy balance of youth and experience across the research clusters.

Strategic knowledge exchange initiatives
Enabling staff to undertake ambitious projects developed through partnerships, collaboration and co-
creation with industry and stakeholder networks is the platform on which our national and
international research-with-impact is based. Key examples include:

Academia and Charities
Slater leads research funded by the Vocational Training Charity Trust (VTCT) to develop
psychological support, training and public education on visible difference in the UK and to help
charities in this sector maximise their impact. VTCT priorities are set by charities that work directly
with people and their families living with visible difference to mitigate discrimination. Keeling leads
the Understanding Needs and Interventions for the Treatment of Scarring (UNITS) research study,
investigating the psychosocial impact of appearance altering injuries on military personnel and their
families. UNITS was funded by the Scar Free Foundation and explored the impacts of military-to-
civilian transitions across employment opportunities, family life, romantic relationships and mental
health status. Stigma and the impact of conflict trauma on help-seeking were central themes.

Academia and Business
COMBACTE-MAGNET: Involving Patients and the Public in Antimicrobial Medicines Development,
funded by the European Commission, was a clinical and laboratory research network to develop new
options to treat or prevent bacterial infections in all EU member states and affiliated countries,
consisting of 1204 hospitals and 842 laboratories. Led by Evans and subsequently by Gibson, a
Patient and Public Involvement (PPI) toolkit was developed in collaboration with a public panel
providing evidence-based practical guidance on how to carry out PPI throughout the antimicrobial
medicines’ development lifecycle. The principles embedded through ‘training the trainers’ events
became mainstream in practice, adding lay user perspectives to inform the development of the
science. While traditionally lay public involvement in the process of science has been very limited, as
public responses to new vaccines, drugs and technology have demonstrated through the COVID
pandemic, the production and consumption of medicines and technology was shown to benefit from
public involvement throughout the scientific process.

Academia, Public Sector and Sustainable Growth Industries
Healthy People Healthy Places was a high impact research project involving Pilkington (PI), Bird
and Ige, commissioned by Public Health England (PHE) in 2016, to create a written resource and
series of evidence-based tools that summarised the impact of the design of housing, transport, food
networks, neighbourhoods and the natural environment on health. Gray (PI), with Bird, Pilkington,
Ige and Professor Mindell (UCL) were commissioned to undertake a follow-up project Getting
Research into Practice (GRIP) to assess uptake of the evidence tools among local and regional
policy makers and practitioners in the place-making professions. The resource and evidence tools
were included in PHE’s Strategy 2020-2025 for healthy place-making across local authorities’ policy
areas in England, published in 2019, and further supported PHE’s work influencing housing
developers commissioned to build the Healthy New Towns programme, an NHS England initiative.
The aim was to persuade developers of the need to consider health and wellbeing, as well as profit
margins, when making decisions about building new houses and designing neighbourhoods.


                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Academia and the Health and Social Care Sector
Through a range of initiatives, staff in the unit have played key roles in translating research into
health and social care practice. For example, Gray and Gibson led a strategic partnership funded by
the NIHR (Applied Research Collaboration, ARC West) to promote workforce capacity building and
training in health and social care and lay public involvement in research and innovation across the
region (2014-2020). The unit has also played a key role in leading peer-approved, interdisciplinary
Health Integration Teams (HITs) on behalf of Bristol Health Partners (BHP), an NIHR funded
organisation established in 2013. The seven BHP collaborators; two universities, three councils and
two community health trusts in Bristol, North Somerset and South Gloucestershire, support delivery
of the Sustainability and Transformation Plans for the West of England aiming to accelerate learning
for impact on the economy and society. HITs in particular work in partnership to translate key
research areas into practice, education and impact on communities and society. Examples of unit
staff involvement include:

   Malson was Director of the Eating Disorders HIT (EDHIT), a high-profile initiative, successful
    in implementing research and evidence-based delivery of prevention and treatment for people
    with eating disorders, working in partnership with mental health trusts, social enterprises,
    service users and the public.
   Cheston led the research work stream of the Dementia Health HIT, a team of inter-agency
    professionals working together to transform care for people affected by dementia through
    research aimed at integrating and improving care services and support, and creating
    dementia-friendly, age-friendly communities. See ICS: Living with Dementia.
   Gray was Co-Director of the Active People: Promoting Healthy Life Expectancy (APPHLE)
    HIT. As Co-I of NIHR-funded research with the Universities of Birmingham and Bristol, Gray
    led an evaluation of the REtirement in ACTion (REACT) intervention for active living in older
    people. Working collaboratively, the APPHLE HIT and Bristol, North Somerset, and South
    Gloucestershire (BNSSG) Clinical Commissioning Group (CCG) were able to embed learning
    from this research to implement the REACT intervention within the 2018 frailty prevention
    programme for the region.

Research students/Post-Doctoral Research (PDR) Fellows
All PGR students belong to the UWE Graduate School which is led by an academic director and
underpinned by a Graduate School Office providing governance and a range of services aimed at
meeting student needs. There is dedicated support for all those involved in the postgraduate
research journey – students, supervisors, examiners and professional services. PGR research is
also supported by faculty systems that ensure recruitment processes, interviews and checks are
agile and robust, observing equality, diversity, and unconscious bias in recruitment and checks
around eligibility and status. Following recruitment, PGR students and PDR fellows are linked to a
research cluster team to provide them with a strong sense of identity, with each cluster organising
regular research meetings and several events per year involving staff and students.

The unit follows guidelines provided by the QAA/PGR Code of Practice, aiming to recruit PGR
students and PDR fellows to complement and extend our key thematic areas of Sustainable
Communities and Wellness Wellbeing and Policy. There has been a strong emphasis placed on joint
supervision to support a pipeline of PGR supervisions. The unit has also supported growth of a talent
pipeline from PGR students and PDR researchers to academic appointments, enhancing diversity
and sustainability of our research base. For example, Jack Spicer was appointed Lecturer in
Criminology at UWE on completion of his PhD in 2019 that explored the policing of county lines for
heroin and crack markets in affected import towns. Nasrul Ismail was appointed an Associate
Lecturer in Criminology during his ESRC DTP studentship, and then appointed on a fixed-term
lecturing contract. Outstanding postgraduate students, Bird, Ige, Ismail and Lewis-Smith were
recruited to academic appointments from taught master’s programmes. Dowling, appointed as a
Senior Lecturer in 2009, completed her UWE–funded PhD on the experiences of women who breast
feed long-term in 2013. Drawing on her PhD work, Dowling, with support from Powell, successfully
secured an ESRC-funded Seminar Series, Social Experiences of Breastfeeding: Building Bridges
between Research and Policy, with co-investigators at the University of South Wales and Cardiff
University (2014-2016).

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
PGR students have supervision teams comprising a Director of Studies and at least one other
supervisor. Student progress is monitored annually, and students are also asked to evaluate the
quality of supervision support they have received. All monitoring forms are scrutinised by the Faculty
Research Degrees Committee.

There is a mandatory supervisor training programme and regular refresher events to ensure PGR
supervisors are up-to-date on regulatory changes and best practice. A comprehensive training and
development programme for PGR students and research grade staff is provided by the Graduate
School, mapped to the Vitae Researcher Development Framework. The unit supports research
grade staff in line with its strategic goals and the University’s commitment to the Concordat to
Support the Career Development of Researchers, as evidenced by its HR Excellence in Research
Award gained in 2012 and re-awarded biennially up to, most recently, 2018. A highly valued faculty-
wide PGR research day is held once a year, in the style of an academic conference, when
postgraduate researchers gain experience of both oral and poster presentations.

Of the 56 doctoral completions in the unit over the assessment period, 32 were PhDs, 5 were DPhil
awards and 19 were research-based Professional Doctorate awards:

 Year        Prof Doc PhD/DPhil Total
 2013/14            0         8      8
 2014/15            3         3      6
 2015/16            3         6      9
 2016/17            2         6      8
 2017/18            1         5      6
 2018/19            6         5    11
 2019/20            4         4      8
 Totals            19        37    56

Funding sources for those who completed included self-funding (36), faculty funded studentships
(12), external sponsor funding (6), one 50/50 partnership (external sponsor/faculty) and one EPSRC/
faculty funded studentship. Of the 37 PGR students registered on 31 July 2020, two were RCUK
funded through the ESRC DTP, four have doctoral loans, one has external sponsorship, twenty are
self-funded, three are staff members who receive support from the Department, and seven have
UWE studentships.

Fellowships are an important part of our development strategy for existing staff and a vehicle for
enhancing the research culture. Cole was awarded a Leverhulme Trust Senior Research Fellowship
for research on Global Displacement in the 21st Century in 2019 and has used his experiences to
mentor others looking to achieve similar awards. White gained a European Commission, Marie-
Sklodowska Curie Individual Fellowship 2015-2018 for peer ethnography to involve young people in
designated sexual health services. This fellowship, supervised by Evans, resulted in a short film
output, DARE, based on young people's experiences of coercion and the influences of online
pornography, which was shortlisted for the 2020 Women's International Film Festival, Brooklyn, US
(Girl Power film and media stream). Bunt supervised Dr Grace Hwang’s postdoctoral fellowship
building on her PhD. Funded by the Korea Buddhist Wonhyojong, Hwang examined how relaxation
music linked with mindfulness meditation can support the well-being of university students and staff.
The unit has also been active in hosting Visiting Researchers, helping to enrich the research culture
alongside building international relationships. For example, McCartan hosted several international
Fulbright scholarships and Leverhulme Trust funded exchanges, including Dr Kirsten Zgoba from the
New Jersey State Department, and Dr Robin Wilson of McMaster University, Canada who visited
UWE to collaborate on research aimed at reducing offending. Clegg hosted Dr Emilio Pantojas-
Garcia, Centro de Investigaciones Sociales, University of Puerto Rico, in 2014 to collaborate on
research considering governance in the non-independent territories of the Caribbean. Pantojas-
Garcia presented on the economic recalibration of the non-sovereign Caribbean in the aftermath of
the global financial crisis. Aspects of this work fed into Clegg’s impact case study BOTs and Brexit.

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity
The unit had a strong commitment to equality and diversity in the recruitment and support of its
academic and professional services staff including those with significant responsibility for research
and research students across all protected characteristics. Led by McClean, the Department within
which this unit sits secured an Athena SWAN Bronze award in 2018. The Department Self-
Assessment Team (SAT) for Athena SWAN also included Clegg, Malson and Powell and linked
into a University-wide, umbrella structure of Athena SWAN SATs (see the Institutional-level
Statement), where Powell represents all REF Unit of Assessment leaders. A detailed plan from the
post award recommendations promoted action to better understand protected characteristics,
awareness of unconscious bias and become sensitised to the impact of intersectionality on
opportunities and progression in research.

Study leave arrangements, support for flexible and/or remote working, support to develop career
pathways for part-time and fixed-term staff, conference attendance and travel to support research for
staff and research students with caring responsibilities were actioned over the assessment period.
Interview panels for staff and PGR students are trained to ensure they are sensitive to unconscious
bias and to gender and diversity issues. Over half (26/47) of staff with SRR in this unit are women,
who also have better than equal representation within the Professoriate. This was also the case in
REF 2014 and reflects consistency in the female:male ratio (60:40) in the pool of departmental staff
over two REF cycles. Unlike the 2014 submission, the 2021 submission also contains the work of
two BAME Early Career Researchers.

Relationship with UWE’s Code of Practice
Staff identified as having significant responsibility for research, staff considered to be independent
researchers, and outputs were selected for submission in strict accordance with the University’s
Code of Practice. Outputs were selected based on their quality as determined through a thorough
peer review process whereby each output was evaluated independently by two reviewers
(Professors and Associate Professors in a reading group) who underwent equality, diversity and
inclusivity training. More than half the outputs were further evaluated by independent external
reviewers. As stated in the Code, there was no expectation about the number of outputs any one
individual contributed to the submission. Where it was necessary to choose between a small number
of outputs with the same quality score to reach the required total, account was taken of the
distribution of outputs between individuals and across the subject areas of the submission.

Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research income
Supporting staff to apply for external research funding through strategic internal investments in
people, services and infrastructure has been a core component of the unit’s research strategy over
the assessment period. As noted in section 1, this proactive strategy and the support given to
external bidding through internal seed funding and focussed internal investment has secured a
substantial increase in external research income over the REF period.

External research income
The unit’s research is strongly interdisciplinary and challenge-based, combining academic
excellence with policy relevance, including policy evaluation. The unit increased its research income
more than 250% from £2,843,470 in REF 2014 to £7,252,869 in REF2021, generating external
research income from more than 80 different funders, often in collaboration, with other colleagues at
UWE, other HEIs, business and other partners across the two thematic areas. The following
examples are illustrative of the key funders and areas of growing research excellence in the unit.

Sustainable Communities
The Sustainable Communities theme has grown significantly since the last assessment period, and
has developed into a key thematic area that brings together data driven research and theory-based
evidence applications and lay public involvement and engagement in research.


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
For example, the UK Prevention Research Partnership (UKPRP) and Wellcome Trust have
supported innovative research focused on the upstream-determinants of health and encouraged a
systems-level approach to developing large-scale solutions relevant to policy and practice. UKPRP
comprises 12 major funders of health research in the UK, including the health and social care
departments across the four nations; UK charities; and UK Research and Innovation (UKRI). The
alliance of UKPRP funders invest to improve population health, and reduce health inequalities,
through the primary prevention of non-communicable diseases, including mental health problems.
Finding the mechanisms to modify risk factors for non-communicable diseases and the means to
influence vulnerabilities and inequalities in community populations was the subject of a number of
grants, including:

Pilkington with Gibson, Ige and White (UKPRP, £6.6m, UWE value £563,712) for collaborative
challenge-based research with Universities of Bristol, Bath, Manchester, Reading and Cardiff and
two Local Authorities, Bristol and Manchester, on Tackling the Root Causes of Unhealthy Urban
Development and Decision-making: An Urban Systems Approach (TRUUD: Urban Systems). This
sought to embed the prevention of risk factors associated with non-communicable diseases and
health inequalities in decision-making to effect change in policy and practice within the urban realm.
Pilkington and Ige (Wellcome Trust One Planet One Health programme, UWE value £125,212) for
collaborative interdisciplinary research with the Faculty of Environment and Technology at UWE and
the Universities of Bristol and Bath on Moving Health Upstream in Urban Development Planning,
Economics and Decision Making (UPSTREAM). This explored governance networks and decision-
making in local authorities’ planning systems, demonstrating how sustainable economic
considerations could be better integrated into upstream decision making in the housing development
sector, finding the mechanisms to influence the design of public spaces and places.
Bray (Wellcome Trust, UWE value £41,064) for research on Exposure to natural environments as a
core component in interventions to prevent and treat depression and anxiety in young people. This
applied data and evidence to demonstrate the link between improvements in mental health and
wellbeing in natural environments.

Taking a socio-ecological, systems level, multi-sector approach to global security, criminal justice
and public participation reflects another element of Sustainable Communities. Examples over the
period included:

Kent with Meacham (BBSRC, total value £13,528,180, UWE value £268,374) for Bristol Centre for
Synthetic Biology (BCSB): Towards Functional, Encapsulated, Synthetic-Biological Systems. The
aim of UWE’s strand of work was to explore gendered dimensions of human donation and exchange.
Evans with Gibson (European Commission, total value £61,025,400, UWE value £220,757) for
Academic Partners of COMBACTE 3 which aimed to embed patient and public involvement in the
development of science underpinning new anti-microbial resistance drugs.
Jones (Big Lottery Wellbeing Fund, UWE Value £200,000) for an Evaluation of the Food for Life
Partnership: transforming food culture in schools and new settings, to establish sustainable and
secure food procurement in schools.
Jones (Soil Association National Centre for Organic Food and Farming, UWE value £84,000) for
Food Generations: bringing generations together through food, to develop knowledge of growing and
cooking food across age groups to ensure food system security and sustainability.
McCartan (Leverhulme Trust, UWE value £52,454) for Community Engagement and Partnership
Working in Facilitating Sex Offender Reintegration, which seeks to use an international network
grant to scale up effective interventions for preventing sexual offending, and offender reintegration
within police and probation services, to an international level.

Wellness Wellbeing and Policy
Enhancement of mental wellbeing through individual therapies and psychosocial support
interventions constitute another important area of externally funded research in the unit. A range of
innovative grants to support research with impact on community development approaches to mental
wellbeing and ageing through the life course were secured, including:

Diedrichs with Halliwell and Lewis Smith (Dove Social Mission, UWE value £933,369) for the

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Dove Self-Esteem Project Partnership Year Six, to develop and evaluate body image interventions
for children and adolescents on a global scale, aiming to amplify the scale and spread of innovations
to promote body confidence worldwide.
Diedrichs with Halliwell (World Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts (WAGGGS). UWE value,
£342,049) on a Randomised controlled evaluation of a global body image programme in the United
Kingdom and India. The project has helped WAGGGS learn lessons about implementing global
educational programmes, which has in turn helped to embed body confidence into the global
women’s empowerment agenda.
Jones (Big Lottery, UWE value £350,859) for Researching Social Isolation and Loneliness in later
Life for the Bristol Ageing Better Partnership (3 separate grants), to evaluate how Age UK’s
community development projects support people to participate in community activities and link
people with public and voluntary sector services.
Cheston (NIHR, UWE Value £65,800) for The assessment, diagnosis and support of people living
with dementia within South Asian communities: developing and evaluating a programme for service
provision, to evaluate the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the Living with Dementia
programme among people from South Asian communities of the UK.
Daykin (ESRC, UWE value £65,568) for Developing evaluation knowledge, capacity and resources
for the arts and health sector.
Powell (Centre for Ageing Better, UWE value £54,744) to look at The Role of Home Adaptations in
Improving Later Life: A Research Review for Centre for Ageing Better. This project provides a realist
synthesis of the evidence for the effectiveness of major and minor home adaptations in improving
later life.
Bunt (European Commission, £23,790) for Sustaining Teachers and Learners with the Arts
(STALWARTS) which extends the reach of findings on building capacity for creative arts therapies
from the ERASMUS Learning in a New Key (LINK) project to build capacity among European
universities, schools and music therapy organisations in Italy, Estonia, Poland, Portugal and the UK.
Walmsley (Avon & Somerset Police, UWE value £16,667) for an Evaluation of Avon and Somerset
Constabulary's ASCEND Initiative, 2019-2020, a service introduced to ensure the needs of offenders
are met in relation to changing behaviour, both the critical needs around offending behaviour but
also holistic needs including things like employment and mental health.

Strategic Partnerships in the region
Gray (NIHR, UWE value £277,465) to lead a strategic partnership for the Applied Research
Collaboration (ARC), formerly Collaborations for Leadership for Applied Research in Health and
Care (CLAHRC), on training and capacity building in the health and social care workforce across the
region (2013 – 2020).
Gibson, a strategic partnership with the NIHR Applied Research Collaboration (ARC WEST), funded
by the NIHR Health Protection Research Units (UWE value, £371,246), the NIHR Bristol Biomedical
Research Centre (£177,662) and NIHR West of England Academic Health Science Network
(WEAHSN, £26,856) to lead capacity building and research innovation in public involvement and
engagement in the region.

PGR/PDR Awards
The unit was awarded prestigious postdoctoral fellowships to the value of £262,199 over the
assessment period. Under the sustainable communities’ theme, Cole and White were awarded a
Leverhulme Trust Senior Research Fellowship (£25,821 over one year) and a European
Commission, Marie-Sklodowska Curie Individual Fellowship (£158,378 over three years). Within the
Wellness Wellbeing and Policy theme, Bunt supervised Dr Grace Hwang’s PDR fellowship funded
by the Korea Buddhist Wonhyojong securing £78,000 over two years. De Viggiani and Dowling
began directing the PGR studies of two ESRC DTP students, securing £140,000 external income.

Internal investment
Through competitive calls, internal investments were made to support the unit’s research, including
£780,000 to fund 13 PhD studentships and £546,934 for staff research from annual, internal
competitive investment schemes over the period 2014-20. Internal investment awards of £459,379
were awarded specifically to promote novel and productive collaborative and interdisciplinary
research across three schemes; i) Inter-disciplinary – cross research cluster funding, ii)

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Interdisciplinary Cross-Faculty funding and iii) the VC’s Interdisciplinary Challenge Fund which
supports early stage cross-disciplinary and cross faculty research initiatives, intended to lead to
external funding in the context of the Industrial Strategy and other challenge-based funding calls
presenting a range of different opportunities to encourage inter-disciplinary working.

Infrastructure
Research Support Infrastructure
UWE’s Research, Business and Innovation unit (RBI) supports external bid development and
knowledge exchange, ensuring rigorous evaluation through a Peer Review College for UKRI bids
and post-award support. Specialist staff provide advice on identifying funding opportunities,
contracts, intellectual property, finance, research governance and ethics, marketing and public and
business engagement. Research project managers benefit from detailed guidance and training
covering all aspects of a research project life cycle including workshops and training sessions linked
to the Vitae Researcher Development Framework, as well as facilitating impact and assisting with
evidence-gathering. An extensive staff intranet provides guidance and information on research-
related issues. Support for ethics and governance, risk assessment and management and General
Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) compliance is provided through mandatory training and regular
updating of all staff.

Healthy University Infrastructure and Environment
Staff in the unit have been commissioned to apply their expertise directly to improve the University’s
own facilities and fulfil its civic responsibilities. Jenkinson and Jones were co-directors of the
Healthy Universities strategy for UWE, as part of a global network of HEIs who were signatories to
the 2015 Okanagan International Charter for Health Promoting Universities and Colleges. The
Healthy Universities initiative led to significant changes regarding health and sustainability policies
and practices at UWE across the assessment period, including new sustainable policies on the
procurement, catering and sale of food, the organisation of transport and travel facilities, and support
for active travel, for example with new washing and bicycle maintenance facilities. Staff also
benefitted from the provision of new recycling facilities, waste management, and improved staff
facilities and social spaces for meeting, eating and greeting across the estate. These infrastructural
investments significantly increased opportunities for collaboration, partnership working and
networking, as well as public engagement and civic engagement events.

Estates
There was significant capital investment in campus infrastructure over the assessment period that
benefitted staff returned to this unit through substantial improvements to physical aspects of the
estate and access to the university. This included additional office space allocated to accommodate
significant expansion of the Department that hosts our four research clusters on Frenchay Campus.
There was also improvement and investment in psychology laboratories, and spaces for specialist
library and film collections. A further £180k was invested in specialist equipment and facilities.

The unit has benefitted directly from major investments in the development of Frenchay campus that
have provided accessible and inspiring new spaces to attract collaborators to public engagement
events, sandpit events, seminars, conferences and networking events.

This includes the addition of new, state of the art buildings such as the Bristol Business School, with
open and accessible seating areas, well-equipped seminar rooms, cafes and meeting spaces, which
has enabled collaboration, connectivity and integration of research and impact activities to be
increased both across the institution and with external partners.

Investment in infrastructure in the centre of Bristol (UWE’s City campus) has also helped to foster a
research culture of collaboration, participation and co-creation, particularly with organisations based
in the city centre, embedding the unit’s research and promoting its impact through making our
research more visible and accessible to diverse communities. The creation of a City campus, which
includes Bush House, shared with the Arnolfini Centre for Contemporary Arts, and the Watershed
Media Centre have enhanced in particular our engagement with Bristol’s burgeoning cultural quarter,
various public venues and centrally-located healthcare organisations. For example, Social Science in

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the City (SSIC), a public engagement platform run by staff in the unit, received more than £145k of
internal investment over the assessment period. SSIC organised 24 events in six different venues
around Bristol led by 30 members of UWE staff attracting a range of publics with common or
overlapping interests. As a result, more than 780 new members were brought into the SSIC
community from over 200 external organisations. SSIC also hosted the public launch of a number of
books authored by researchers within the Department. For example, during 2017/18, five books
were launched through SSIC. In addition, SSIC hosted bi-monthly citizen engagement events and
sponsored Watershed Media Centre’s ‘Conversations about Cinema’, a film screening and public
debate series convened by Tava, Assiter and Mitcheson. The City campus enabled staff to work
alongside a diverse and distributed community of activists and communities of practice with whom
they shared ideas, networks and expertise. People in Health West of England (PHWE, see below)
and the NIHR ARC West also operated a shared facility for research in central Bristol where Gray,
Gibson, Davies, White and Bray were located at various times over the assessment period,
enabling access to shared facilities, resources and expertise of the six partner organisations that
comprise Bristol Health Partners.

Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Collaborations, networks, partnerships and beneficiaries
The unit’s researchers enjoy partnerships with a wide range of organisations, regionally, nationally
and internationally. The breadth of our economic, health, social and environmental impacts and the
unit’s approach to extending the reach and significance of impact to a wide range of beneficiaries are
illustrated by the four featured impact case studies. Other illustrative examples are given below.

Global Security and Counter-terrorism
Leonard belonged to the Jean Monnet Network on EU Counter-terrorism EUCTER led by the
International Centre for Policing and Security at the University of South Wales, which also included
universities from across Europe, North Africa and the Middle East. She has participated in several
international expert networks with seminars organised to foster a dialogue between academics and
practitioners in the field of European security.

Global Partnership Children with Disabilities
Curran was on the international steering group of the Collaboration for Inclusive Early Childhood
Services funded by the Canadian Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council and Canadian
Institutes of Health Research. Curran was also a member of the Early Childhood Development Task
Force, a global multi-stakeholder coalition of international, national and local NGOs, disabled
people’s organisations, academia, young advocates, governments, and the private sector.

Public Involvement in Research and Innovation Network
Inspired by the national network for public involvement (INVOLVE), People in Health West of
England (PHWE) is a regional public involvement network of health, social care and non-
governmental organisations working collaboratively to promote and implement public involvement in
research and innovation. Gibson, Davies and White delivered the PHWE work plan and the
development of a consistent policy and coordinated approach. The network was successful in
providing bespoke support for members of the public involved and engaged in research and
innovation, as well as curating a database to promote access to public involvement and to matching
appropriate groups with the public, and increasing the capability in public involvement through
delivery of face-to-face and online learning and development programmes.

Citizen Engagement
As noted above, Social Science in the City opened up opportunities in Bristol for diverse
communities and the public to come together in a congenial café atmosphere to engage with and
contribute to critical and informed debate about how we live and work in society. For example, over
one hundred attended an SSIC event organised by Mackay on men, masculinities, shame and
blame with speakers from organisations such as the White Ribbon Campaign UK, A Call to Men UK,
Off the Record and Babassa Youth Empowerment.


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Activism and Advocacy
The unit recognises that activism and advocacy expressed through co-creation, broad engagement,
and use of media are powerful drivers of social movements for change in communities. These
activities were central to the unit’s research and impact in the reporting period. For example,
Pilkington, Bird and Bray provided the strongest evidence to date that 20mph speed limits in built
up areas are associated with increasing safety among vulnerable road users and support walking
and cycling to promote wellbeing and improve air quality. Funded by Bristol City Council, the Bristol
Twenty Miles Per Hour Limit Evaluation (BRITE) study supported a local campaign to preserve
20mph speed limits in Bristol, and contributed to a body of evidence for the introduction of 20mph
speed limits across England, Wales and Scotland. The BRITE report was shared widely on social
media and through national campaign groups such as ‘Twenty's Plenty' and 'Bristol Cycling
Campaign’. Its findings received national media coverage, including on the BBC. The research was
referenced at a Rise for Climate Change event in Bristol in 2018 which called for the replication of
20mph speed limits in urban areas across the UK. This was timed to coincide with similar events
worldwide and to precede the Global Climate Action Summit in San Francisco.

Mackay is a high-profile translator of identity and gender research with an international following and
11.3K Twitter followers at the census date. In 2018, ‘Let Toys Be Toys’, a campaign against
gendered marketing, funded a cartoonist and designer to produce a ‘twenty tips’ poster for parents
and educators to avoid gender stereotyping of toys for children. The poster was translated into
numerous different languages and used in Early Years educational provision across Europe.
Mackay’s TED Talk on YouTube, What’s Feminist About Equality? filmed in 2017 at TEDx Covent
Garden had over 100,000 views. Diedrichs has worked with social media influencers, Megan
Crabbe and Alison Kimmey, to develop an Instagram TV series called “Self-Esteem at Home” to
deliver evidence-based body image tips and strategies to their 1.5 million Instagram followers.

Wider activities/contributions to the research base
Over the reporting period, unit staff contributed significantly to the disciplinary research base through
a range of activities, including examining doctorates at over 40 different institutions in the UK and
internationally, reviewing articles for over 100 different journals, reviewing research proposals for
research councils and other major funders, and evaluating book proposals for over 40 different
publishers. Selected examples of their principal contributions are described below.

Contributions to research methodologies
Clarke, working with Professor Braun (University of Auckland), developed and extended an
innovative approach to thematic data analysis. Her substantial contribution to research
methodologies underpins many research outputs in this unit and the wider academic and practice
research base. In addition, Coffey made a significant contribution to methodology in ethnography
and McClean to qualitative methodology.

Expert Advice and Legal testimony, Parliamentary Select Committees and Quangos
Carter was an academic advisor for the Government Equalities Office Workplace and Gender
Equality (WAGE) Research Programme. Diedrichs served as an advisor to the British Government
Equalities Office, Transport for London and Parliamentary Select Committee on Eating Disorders.
Dowling was a member of the All-Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) for Infant Feeding and
Inequalities. Leonard co-authored an analysis of the EU’s law enforcement agency, Europol,
published by the Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung Foundation, and presented to various stakeholders in the
field of European security cooperation. McGlinchey was the only expert academic author to publish
on the issue of foreign military sales to Iran, and his oral testimony was used in evidence for a case
before the Iran–US Claims Tribunal in The Hague. Slater gave evidence to the House of Commons
Women and Equalities Committee on their inquiry Changing the Perfect Picture: An Inquiry into Body
Image. She was also a witness at an online seminar on Body Image and the Media at the House of
Lords Communications and Digital Select Committee, the purpose of which was to help the
Committee frame their next inquiry.



                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Services for Funding Bodies and Research Consultancy
A significant number of staff have been recognised for their expertise though roles in funding bodies.
For instance, Powell was on the NIHR Research for Patient Benefit (RfPB) commissioning panel
(2016-2020) and the NIHR Public Health Research Funding Board (2011-2015). Cheston was a
research funding panel member for the Alzheimer’s Society commissioning board (2016 to date) and
Avon and Wiltshire Mental Health Care Trust Research and Development Board (2013 to 2018).
Bray contributed to the Research Advisory Panel (NIHR ARC West).

Frost completed five consultancy projects between 2017 and 2020 on retaining social workers in the
profession for a number of rural and urban English local authorities in association with Community
Care. Her work helped social work organisations and stakeholders understand how and why high
sickness rates and high turnover of staff depletes the crucial support offered to service users.

Roles in not for profit organisations and agencies
Gray is Chair of the West of England Nature Partnership (2017-). Evans was a member of the NIHR
INVOLVE Advisory Board (2014 to 2016), and chairperson of the UK Public Health Register of
Public Health Practitioners (2017 to date). Jones is a Non-Executive Director of Forest of Avon Trust
(2018 to date). Mackay was a Trustee of the National Feminist Archive. Thompson M. was Vice
President, Academics Stand Against Poverty (2015-2016) and a Board member (2014-2016).

Subject associations, journal and book series editorship
Mitcheson is President of the Friedrich Nietzsche Society (2019 to present). Aiming to promote the
study of the life, work and influence of Nietzsche, the FNS has around 200 international members
and runs an annual conference. Assiter was on the editorial board of Feminist Dissent. Carter was
Editor of Cogent: Social Sciences (2015-2018) and Associate Editor: Frontiers in Social Sciences
(2016-2019). Diedrichs and Halliwell were Associate Editors of Body Image. Jones was Special
Issue Editor of Food, Sustainability and Public Health in Sustainability (October, 2019). McGlinchey
was editor-in-chief of E-International Relations, featuring high quality scholarly content with a website
that reaches over three million unique readers. Mulholland was Topic Editor of the Sustainability
Journal. Dowling was an Editorial Board Member of Sociological Research Online. Clegg was co-
editor of Commonwealth and Comparative Politics (2016-2019) and is an editorial board member of
Small States and Territories (2016 to present). Evans was on the Editorial Board of the journal
Research, Involvement and Engagement (2014-2019). Leonard is on the editorial board of
European Politics and Society (2012 to present), and Thompson M. was Associate Editor Journal of
Contextual Behavioural Science (2012-2018).

Fellowships, Awards and Prizes
Staff achievement was recognised through prestigious personal awards. Assiter and Bunt are
Fellows of the Royal Society of Arts. Assiter is a Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences.
Diedrichs is a Fellow of the Academy for Eating Disorders. Ward is a Fellow of the British
Psychological Society. Evans, Gray, Pilkington and Powell are Fellows of the Faculty of Public
Health.

Conferences, Workshops or Online forums
Conference organisation has been a vital component of the unit’s activities, facilitating significant
engagement. Highlights include: Carter convened a British Sociological Association funded event in
July 2017 at Canterbury Christ Church University on Romantic Relationships in a Time of ‘Cold
Intimacies’. Jones, Ismail, Powell and Emeritus Professor Means were on the organising committee
for the British Society of Gerontology (BSG) 49th annual conference, Ageing and Sustainability in a
Time of Transition, hosted by UWE online due to the COVID pandemic in July 2020. Flagship
symposia led by Cheston and Jones were broadcast live to over 700 registered delegates from 23
countries. Clegg was part of the organising committee for the first International Conference on Small
Island States and Subnational Island Jurisdictions, Aruba, March 2020. Slater has led the biannual
Appearance Matters international conferences since 2016, with Diedrichs for some of that time.
Hosted in the UK, Appearance Matters is the only conference specific to appearance and body
image issues and attracts an international audience of researchers from across the globe.


                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                          Page 17
