Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Institution: University of South Wales

Unit of Assessment: D27 English Language and Literature

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Context and Structure
The English Research Unit (UoA) at the University of South Wales (USW) encompasses three
subject areas: Creative Writing, Literature, and TESOL (Teaching English to Speakers of Other
Languages). Formed in 2013 through the merger of the University of Glamorgan and the University
of Wales Newport, USW has been able to build on a strong research tradition in English.
Glamorgan was one of the first institutions to develop the teaching of Creative Writing in the 1980s
and the UoA has an impressive track record of innovative work in this area, showcased in one of
our Impact Case Studies. A major new development since 2014 is the welcome emergence of
research in the area of TESOL which has developed swiftly in response to current global refugee
crises. This is illustrated in the second of our two Impact Case Studies and in the collaborative
TESOL/Creative Writing ‘Speak to Me’ project.

The UoA currently includes 7.6 FTE staff: Creative Writers Barrie Llewelyn, Prof Kevin Mills, and
Dr David Towsey; Literature specialists Dr Nic Dunlop, Prof Alice Entwistle (0.6), Prof Diana
Wallace (UoA leader); and TESOL specialists Dr Mike Chick and Dr Rhian Webb. Two former
members of the Unit contributed substantially to activities in the first half of the REF period: Prof
Philip Gross (poet and children’s writer) retired in August 2017 and Dr Angharad Saunders (a
literary geographer teaching in Human Geography but part of the English Research UoA) left in
October 2017.

There are close connections between the subject areas and Mills, who is both a poet and a literary
critic, leads the flagship MPhil in Writing. The Unit’s distinctive strengths are grouped into several
informal Research Clusters: Creative Writing; Critical-creative Writing; Welsh Writing in
English; Women’s Writing; Textuality and Cultural Spaces; and TESOL. These clusters are
closely connected and often overlap, with staff active in more than one. Members of the UoA also
play a leading role in two cross-Faculty and inter-disciplinary centres within USW: the Centre for
Gender Studies in Wales (Co-director: Wallace), and the Centre for the Study of Media and
Culture in Small Nations (Co-director: Entwistle, 2013-16), as well as the George Ewart Evans
Centre for Storytelling.

Located within the School of Humanities and Social Sciences, English has a close affiliation with
History in USW which generates research collaborations (particularly through the Centre for
Gender Studies). Within USW’s research structures, both subjects were located initially within the
Humanities and Social Sciences Research Institute (HUMSOC, Co-director: Wallace, 2014-15),
and then the Humanities Research Institute (Director: Entwistle, 2015-17). Following restructuring
in 2017, research is now co-ordinated at Faculty level by the Faculty Head of Research. Within
English, research activity and planning is co-ordinated by the UoA leader Wallace, who sits on the
USW REF Working Group and Faculty Research Committee.

Research and Impact Strategy
The UoA’s aims in 2014 were:
   1. to develop further the strengths of our distinctive Research Clusters, particularly the new

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


        areas of Critical-creative Writing and Textuality and Cultural Spaces;
   2.   to identify and support significant research and link it to Impact;
   3.   to develop external collaborations to maximise capture of grant income;
   4.   to continue to fund research leave for high-quality projects;
   5.   to prioritise the recruitment and improved support of research students.

Within the context of staff changes and restructuring, the UoA has fulfilled the majority of these
aims. We have continued to publish high quality research which has developed the strength of our
distinctive Research Clusters (Aim 1). Notable examples in Creative Writing include Gross’s
three poetry collections, Love Songs of Carbon, A Fold in the River, and A Bright Acoustic; Mills’s
two poetry collections, Stations of the Boar and Zeugma; Llewelyn’s short story collection, Gather
Gold; and the novels in Towsey’s zombie-Western Walkin’ Trilogy and co-authored crime-fantasy
series ‘Tales of Fenest’ (with Katherine Stansfield as ‘D.K. Fields’). In Critical-creative Writing
examples include Entwistle and Mills’s article, ‘After Carson: Reading as Anacoluthon’; and in
Welsh Writing in English, Entwistle’s collection of interviews with women poets, In Her Own
Words: Women talking poetry and Wales, and article ‘Taking Flight: Translation, Dafydd and
Dyfalu’, and Wallace’s Christopher Meredith, as well chapters by both Entwistle and Wallace in
the landmark Cambridge History of Welsh Literature. In Women’s Writing, examples include
Wallace’s edition of Hilda Vaughan’s Harvest Home for Honno’s Welsh Women’s Classics, as well
as numerous journal articles and book chapters by Entwistle and Wallace; and in Textuality and
Cultural Spaces, Saunders’s monograph, Place and the Scene of Literary Practice, and
Dunlop’s article, ‘Surburban Space and Multicultural Identity in Christos Tsiolkas’s The Slap’. In
TESOL, examples include a number of articles by Chick and Webb. Wherever possible, these
projects were supported by internally-funded research leave (Aim 4) as appropriate (see Section
2).

The UoA’s strategic approach to Impact (Aim 2) built on a long tradition of disseminating our
research to audiences outside the academy through public lectures, readings, talks, workshops
and festival appearances as well as via print and broadcast media. Given our commitment to local
and national communities, the Unit’s creative and interpretative work has a unique reach and
significance within the context of Wales as a devolved and bilingual ‘small nation’. To maximise
Impact, two additional appointments were made to support research development and funding in
Humanities research: Emily Garside, appointed as Research Development Advisor, HUMSOC
(2015-16), and Naomi Preston, appointed as Impact Research Assistant, English and History
(2018-20). Colleagues were encouraged to build Impact into research projects and to identify
external collaborations (Aim 3) which would facilitate grant capture. Possible Impact Case
Studies were supported with time allocation through the Academic Workload Model and with
internally-funded research leave wherever possible. The UoA’s two Impact Case Studies, both of
which involve collaboration with external bodies, showcase two very different areas and
approaches. The ‘St Cadoc in South East Wales’ case study builds on the Unit’s distinctive
strengths in Creative and Critical-creative Writing with particular national significance within Wales
and was planned as an Impact-rich project from the beginning. ‘English Language Teaching for
Forced Migrants in Wales’ grew organically alongside the new research being developed by
Chick in collaboration with the Welsh Refugee Council and Rhondda Cynon Taff Borough Council
in direct response to the on-going refugee crisis since 2011.

Other Impact-rich projects include Llewelyn’s ‘Speak to Me’ workshops for refugees, Entwistle’s

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


‘Enlli Weave’ and ‘“So much depends…”’ collaborations, and Gross’s cross-arts collaborations
(see Section 5). Wallace’s work on historical fiction led to a major contribution to BBC Northern
Ireland’s television programme, ‘Helen Waddell: Living the Past’ (presented by Kate Mosse and
broadcast on 2 December 2018), and to an invitation to contribute an essay, ‘Gothic Heroines and
Gothic Histories’, to the programme for Lucia di Lammermoor at the Royal Opera House, London,
(2016), subsequently translated into Greek for a co-production with Greek National Opera, Athens
(2018). Unit members have been flexible in responding to public engagement opportunities to
maximise Impact. Wallace, for instance, timed her monograph on Christopher Meredith to coincide
with the 30th anniversary of his classic novel of Welsh post-industrialisaton, Shifts (1988), which
enabled a sell-out launch event with Meredith at Hay Festival (June 2018), and prompted major
review articles in O’r Pedwar Gwynt and New Welsh Review. Colleagues have continued to
engage widely with print and broadcast media: for example, Entwistle published an article on the
Poet Laureateship on The Conversation (4 Aug 2014); Towsey has been interviewed by the
Western Mail, Wales Arts Review, New Welsh Review and Radio Cardiff and has written a series
of guest blog posts; Wallace has written for the Western Mail and provided expert commentary for
BBC Radio Wales’s Good Morning Wales, Good Evening Wales and BBC Radio Scotland on over
16 topics including Hilary Mantel, Frankenstein, Sarah Waters and Jane Austen, as well as being a
regular newspaper reviewer.

The recruitment and support of postgraduate students (Aim 5) has been one of our biggest
success stories. There has been a significant increase in PhD completions (14 during the current
REF period compared with nine in REF 2014) and an exceptional number of completions on our
unique MPhil in Writing programme (35 during the current period compared with 16 in REF 2014).

The success of our research strategy is evidenced by the fact that over the audit period members
of the Unit published 13 single-authored books, three edited/co-edited books, 19 refereed journal
articles, 18 book chapters, four conference proceedings, four contributions to specialist
publications/journals, 10 book reviews, eight invited blog-posts, and over 50 single poems. In
addition they gave 14 keynote/plenary lectures, seven invited/guest lectures, 36 conference
papers, ten invited talks, 16 presentations/panel discussions, and over 50 poetry/prose readings
and talks.

Future Plans
The UoA’s aims for the next assessment period are:
   1. to maintain and develop the strengths of our distinctive Research Clusters in order to
       publish high-quality outputs;
   2. to exploit synergies between our key Research Clusters to initiate and develop further
       collaborations with local, national and international partners to maximise Impact;
   3. to maintain and enhance the recruitment and support of postgraduate students.

Planning is already under way for a series of high-quality projects embedded in the Unit’s key
Research Clusters. Chick has secured Advance UK funding to research the outcomes of USW’s
Asylum Seeker Scholarship Scheme and internal funding to develop his work on the provision of
ESOL (English for Speakers of Other Languages) to Syrian refugees in Rhondda Cynon Taff.
Dunlop is working on a monograph on postcolonialism and education in science fiction. Entwistle
is completing a monograph on Gwyneth Lewis for University of Wales Press’s Writers of Wales
series. Entwistle and Mills are co-authoring a monograph, After Ciaran Carson: Between Criticism

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


and Creativity (Sussex Academic Press). Llewelyn has secured internal funding to complete a
novel and SIP funding of £2500 for ‘Joining Threads’, a collaborative project exploring storytelling,
loneliness and well-being. Mills has completed a novel and is developing a critical-creative project
on the Enlightenment philosopher Dr Richard Price of Llangeinor. The third novel in Towsey’s co-
authored fantasy-crime trilogy will be published in 2021, and his single-authored novel is under
offer for publication in 2022. Wallace is working on a study of modernist historical fictions (for
Palgrave) and preparing an edition of Margiad Evans’s Autobiography for Honno’s Welsh Women’s
Classics series. Webb is exploiting her PhD research to publish journal articles.

Several of these projects already lend themselves to collaboration with external partners and
impact activities. While some developments have been the result of internal discussions which
have identified synergies which could be exploited, others (such as Llewelyn’s ‘Joining Threads’)
have been the result of external organisations approaching the Unit. Chick’s extended research on
ESOL provision in Rhondda Cynon Taff is designed to inform and influence Welsh Government
policy. Entwistle secured PEP funding of £1000 for initial advisory work on the development of a
travel app by Window Seater, the audio travel storytelling website (Oct 2020). She is now
developing a further partnership with them and Transport for Wales for a bid to Innovate UK.
Llewelyn is extending her ’Speak to Me’ project to develop an illustrated book by and for refugees.
Towsey has already given a series of media interviews, presentations and readings based on his
trilogies and exploring the process of co-authorship. Wallace is planning a conference on history
and fiction in collaboration with Llafur (the Welsh People’s History Society), Archif Menywod
Cymru/Women’s Archive Wales and Pontypridd Museum which will be designed to appeal to the
non-academic community. Webb has secured SIP funding of £2,500 for a collaboration with
Peartree Languages (International English School, Cardiff) to share and develop expertise in digital
online lessons for second-language English learners.

As a result of further restructuring, the Unit’s move from the former Faculty of Business and
Society to the Faculty of Creative Industries in August 2020 offers opportunities to strengthen
collaboration with colleagues in subjects such as Drama, Film and Media, Broadcasting and
Journalism, both within and beyond USW. It will also enable the UoA to align more closely with
two of USW’s interdisciplinary ‘Accelerated Development Areas’ (as outlined in REF5a): Health
and Wellbeing, and Creative Industries.




                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


2. People

Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
In the aftermath of the 2013 merger and further restructuring in 2017, there are have been some
changes in staffing but English has maintained the vitality of its key Research Clusters. The UoA
gained one full-time member of staff, Towsey, in January 2017 while Gross retired in July 2017
and Saunders left in October 2017. Dunlop, who had served in a management role as Academic
Subject Manager for English and History from 2017, returned to the Unit as a lecturer and active
researcher in November 2018. Both Wallace and then Entwistle served as directors of,
respectively, the Humanities and Social Sciences Research Institute (HUMSOC) and the
Humanities Research Institute. As such they played key roles in developing research strategy at
both university and faculty level and in mentoring researchers in Humanities and beyond. During
this period, English has also benefitted from two fixed-term research support appointments: Emily
Garside, Research Development Advisor, HUMSOC (2015-16), and Naomi Preston, Impact
Research Assistant, English and History (2018-20). Having completed her MRes at USW in 2020,
Preston is continuing her research career through a PhD scholarship at the University of Western
Australia.

Encouragement for all staff in the English Unit to maintain and develop a research profile has been
a key priority during this assessment period. Teaching loads and administrative roles have been
allocated to facilitate this. The USW Academic Workload Model makes a time allocation of 20% for
staff with Significant Responsibility for Research, with professors allocated 30% from 2018-19.
Within the context of USW as a post-92 institution, English is unusual in that almost all members of
the teaching team have SRR and are members of the UoA. The UoA leader (Wallace) is allocated
additional time within the Workload Model for research leadership. In addition, timetabling is
managed so as to allow a clear day for research per week and, when appropriate, to allow for ‘light’
teaching terms. Research is a key element of USW’s Development and Performance Review
Scheme which includes a 12-month review in June-September and a mid-point review in January-
February. In addition, the UoA leader meets regularly with Unit members and offers individual
mentoring as and where appropriate.

Within the UoA, career progression is evidenced by the fact that two staff members who have been
in post since the previous census period were awarded personal Chairs during this period in
recognition of their research achievements: Mills in 2015 and Entwistle in 2017. Three members
of the UoA were successfully selected to take part in the Welsh Crucible (the Wales-based
programme of personal and professional leadership development for future research leaders):
Entwistle in 2014, Saunders in 2016, and Towsey in 2017. Career progression is also evidenced
by the fact that Wallace was made a Fellow of the Learned Society of Wales in 2016 and is
currently USW’s University Representative to the Society.

As part of the UoA’s succession planning to ensure sustainability, Mills shadowed Gross as
Course Leader for the MPhil in Writing for a period before taking on the role fully when the latter
retired. Mills has been supported by Llewelyn who has taught on the MPhil since 2013 and who,
in her role as Course Leader for BA English and Creative Writing, has mentored many promising
undergraduates on to postgraduate research. As a new member of staff, Towsey carried no
administrative roles for the first two years to enable him to develop his research profile.



                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


A significant development attributable to the emphasis on mentoring and support has been the
emergence of members of staff who had not previously been entered in the REF as active
researchers. In TESOL, Chick gained his PhD in 2015 and Webb completed her PhD in 2019.
Both were allocated time in their Workload Models to achieve this and have since gone on to
publish successfully and to play a wider role in their discipline. Chick’s research underpins one of
the UoA’s Impact Case Studies. In Creative Writing, Llewelyn, who has carried the major
responsibility of undergraduate course leadership over the last few years, has published her first
full collection of short stories and edited a collection of stories from the Welsh Short Story Network,
both in 2015. She is currently developing two research projects (‘Speak to Me’ and ‘Joining
Threads’) and has been allocated time to attend training in order to gain an ILM Level 7
qualification (equivalent to postgraduate level) in Coaching and Mentoring.

In contrast to previous assessment periods where English ran an automatic sabbatical rota,
research leave is now allocated on a competitive basis with calls issued for funding bids at regular
intervals. This was done initially through the Research Institutes and since 2017 has been
overseen by the Humanities Funding Committee (comprised of the Faculty Head of Research, the
Head of School and the UoA Leaders of English and History). Almost all members of the Unit -
Chick, Dunlop, Entwistle, Gross, Llewelyn, Mills, Saunders, Towsey and Wallace - have made
successful bids and benefitted from one or more periods of research leave or reduced teaching
during the period to develop or complete projects. Chick gained an additional £10,000 from USW’s
Strategic Research and Impact Fund in 2019 in order to develop his research on Managed
Refugee Resettlement.

The expertise of the UoA’s Emeritus Professors has been a much valued resource during the
period. Emeritus Professors Tony Curtis, Gavin Edwards and Jeremy Hooker were joined in 2013
by Jane Aaron and Christopher Meredith on their retirement, and then by Gross in 2017. Emeritus
Professors are allocated room space within the Faculty as well as other benefits. They have all
remained active researchers and play an important role in the Unit’s culture of informal mentoring
and feedback on new projects, funding bids and publications. Notable publications include: Jane
Aaron (with Sarah Prescott), The Oxford Literary History of Wales: Vol 3: Welsh Writing in English,
1536-1914; The First Four Hundred Years (OUP, 2020); Tony Curtis, From the Fortunate Isles:
New and Selected Poems (Seren, 2016); Gavin Edwards, The Case of the Initial Letter: Charles
Dickens and the politics of the dual alphabet (Manchester University Press, 2020); Philip Gross,
Between the Islands (Bloodaxe, 2020); Jeremy Hooker, Selected Poems (Shearsman, 2020); and
Christopher Meredith, Still Air (Singing Nettle Press, 2017) and Brief Lives (Seren, 2018). Aaron
continues to edit Honno’s Welsh Women’s Classics series, to which Wallace has contributed two
editions. Meredith was invited to contribute the bilingual wording for a wall inscription on y Gaer,
the new complex of library, museum and galleries in Brecon (unveiled in December 2019), and
was awarded a Hawthornden Fellowship in 2020. Both Meredith and Curtis provide active support
and encouragement for postgraduates through our online Creative Writing forum, ‘siopcoffi’, and
have contributed to other projects.

The appointment of Professor Jeff Wallace from Cardiff Metropolitan University as a Visiting
Professor at USW has enabled close links between English colleagues at the two institutions. This
has resulted in two inter-institutional research symposia (May and September 2017) and on-going
informal collaborations.



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Research Students
The number of postgraduate students in English at USW remains on an upward trajectory, in part
because of the success of the Creative Writing PhD. Evolving from USW’s unique MPhil in Writing
as a way of allowing gifted students to transfer to doctoral level research, the Creative Writing PhD
was launched in 2009 and had its first successful completion in 2013.The Unit has had an
exceptionally high number of postgraduate completions during the current REF period. There have
been 14 successful PhD completions between 2013 and 2020, a significant increase from three
completions in RAE 2001-8, and nine in the REF 2014 period. In addition, 35 students successfully
completed the MPhil in Writing in the current audit period. Again, this is an impressive increase
from 16 completions in the REF 2014 period. Finally, the Unit’s first Masters by Research in
TESOL student, Iona Hannagan Lewis, graduated in July 2019. Currently there are four PhD
students enrolled, with ten MPhil in Writing students and three MRes students in Literature.

This is even more impressive given that almost all of these students are self-funding and the MPhil
in Writing is a part-time distance programme. Of the four Literature PhD students among the
completions, only two had funding: Peter Vokes had an AHRC Award, while Jessica Lewis was the
recipient of a Glamorgan Centenary PhD Studentship (fully funded, £15,000 p.a). In contrast, all
the Creative Writing students at both PhD and MPhil level are self-funding, with the majority of
them in full-time employment. Notably, many of the Unit’s postgraduate students are from the local
area, often coming up through our undergraduate programmes. Of the UoA’s successful PhD
completions three had completed an undergraduate degree at USW while two had completed
USW’s MA in Literature, Culture and Society. Of the 35 MPhil students, 11 were graduates of
USW’s BA programmes. Many of these students had either contributed to or edited our annual
undergraduate writing anthology, Daps. This offers students a valuable first taste of publication and
a chance to develop editing skills. Mature students also make up a significant proportion of
postgraduate numbers. In the context of the South Wales Valleys, this evidences not only the
UoA’s commitment to the local community in one of the UK’s most under-privileged areas but also
the energy our staff devote to nurturing the talent of students who are often the first of their family
to attend university.

All postgraduate students have a supervision team which includes a Director of Studies and one or
two supervisors (depending on experience and subject specialism). For students of the Creative
Writing PhD and MPhil in Writing, this team includes a Literature specialist to support the
mandatory Critical-reflective Study element of the degree. In addition to the full-time Creative
Writers on the staff, MPhil students are supported by Writing Fellows who offer specialist expertise
in particular kinds of writing. Past and current Writing Fellows include poet Paul Henry, novelist
Tom Bullough, travel writer Tom Anderson, poet Stephen Knight, and poet and novelist Katherine
Stansfield.

English postgraduates are integrated into the Unit’s research culture as fully as possible. They are
encouraged to present papers at USW’s annual postgraduate conference and at internal seminars,
as well as at external fora such as the Association of Welsh Writing in English’s annual conference.
Students can apply for conference funding (up to £1000) via the Graduate School. As a distance-
learning programme, the MPhil in Writing holds three weekend residencies a year, as well as a
three- or four-day summer retreat at Tŷ Newydd, the National Writing Centre and former home of
Lloyd George in North Wales. Each residency includes a workshop with an editor, publisher or
writer who can offer professional insights into the business of publishing. In addition, there is an

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


annual series of workshops and readings which is open to the public (recent speakers include
former National Poet of Wales, Gwyneth Lewis, poet and Emeritus Professor Tony Curtis, poet
Paul Henry, and novelists Maria Donovan and Katherine Stansfield). The UoA’s Creative Writing
postgraduate students, both current and former, also stay in close touch through the online forum,
‘siopcoffi’, which is used for sharing news, advice and support.

As a result of this thriving and supportive culture, our students and graduates have an impressive
record of publishing and prizing-winning success which is a source of great pride to staff. Since
2010, the Unit’s graduates have published over 50 books with publishers including Bloomsbury,
Bloodaxe, Canongate, Carcanet, Faber, Harper Collins, and Heinemann. Notable successes for
Creative Writing students and graduates during the assessment period include the following: Carys
Shannon won the Jericho Writers Friday Night Live Prize 2020 with the first 500 words of her
novel, Truth Like Water; Sarah Broughton’s Brando’s Bride (Parthian, 2019) was shortlisted for
Wales Book of the Year; Jane Clarke’s When the Tree Falls (Bloodaxe, 2019) was shortlisted for
the Piggott Poetry Prize, the Irish Times Poetry Now Award, and longlisted for the Royal Society of
Literature’s Ondaatje Award; Crystal Jeans won the prestigious Wales Book of the Year 2018
fiction award for Light Switches are my Kryptonite (Honno); Lloyd Markham was shortlisted for the
same award, also in 2018, with Bad Ideas/Chemicals (Parthian) which won the Betty Trask Award;
’R.G.Adams’’s novel, Allegation (Quercus, 2020), has been optioned for television; Holly Muller
published My Own Dear Brother (2016) as part of a two-book deal with Bloomsbury; Jane Clarke’s
The River (Bloodaxe, 2015) was the first book of poetry ever shortlisted for the Ondaatje Prize, and
three poems from the collection won the Hennessy Literary Award for Emerging Poetry; Lucy
Ingrams gained first prize in the Manchester Poetry Prize (2015); Barbara Marsh won the
Troubadour International Prize (2015); Maria Donovan published her debut novel, The Chicken
Soup Murder (Seren, 2017) which was a finalist for the Dundee International Book Prize in 2015;
and Amy Mason won the Dundee International Book Prize for The Other Ida (Cargo, 2014).
Selected other publications include: Sue Rose, Scion (Cinnamon, 2020); Karen Lee Street, Edgar
Allan Poe and the Empire of the Dead (Point Blank, 2020); Emma Storr, Heath Murmer (Calder
Valley Poetry, 2019); Tamar Yoseloff, The Black Place (Seren, 2019) and A Formula for Night:
New and Selected Poems (Seren, 2015); Emma Darwin, This is Not a Book About Charles Darwin
(Holland House, 2019); Gail Aldwin, The String Games (Victorina, 2019); Frances Hay, The Night
Fogs (Holland House Books, 2018); Crystal Jeans, Vegetarian Tigers of Paradise (Honno, 2016);
Tom Bullough, Addlands (Canongate, 2016); Kate Noakes, Tattoo on Crow Street (Parthian,
2015); and Colum Sanson-Regan, The Fly Guy (Wordfire Press, 2015). Literature graduates are
also publishing: Bethan Coombs is preparing a monograph based on her PhD for University of
Wales Press; and Jessica Lewis has had a paper accepted for publication in a refereed journal.

Support mechanisms for postgraduate students have again been made more robust, in part as a
result of the introduction of PhD Manager (a postgraduate research management system), and the
establishment of a new Graduate School (see Section 3 and REF5a). The Graduate School runs
Induction workshops and a research skills training programme which is mapped on to Vitae’s
Researcher Development Framework. The programme includes sessions on academic writing,
literature review, social media skills for researchers, employability, public speaking and
engagement, online skills, the transfer report, and the viva. The Graduate School also runs an
annual postgraduate conference. Each student’s supervisory team is required to provide an annual
report on their progress. The new procedure for transfer from MPhil to PhD, which includes a viva
(usually with an external examiner), introduced during the last audit period, has now bedded in. It

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


has proven to be particularly useful for MPhil in Writing students transferring to the Creative Writing
PhD since it enables focused and objective feedback at a key point in the project.



Equality and Diversity
The English Unit is fully committed to the principles of Equality and Diversity which are supported
by USW. USW holds the Athena SWAN Institutional Bronze Award and became a Stonewall
Champion in June 2016. In 2020 USW was ranked 24th in the Stonewall Workplace Equality
Index, making it one of the Stonewall Top 100 Employers. Ray Vincent, convenor and founder of
USW’s LGBT and Staff Network Spectrum, was celebrated as Stonewall’s Gay Role Model of the
Year in 2019. The University runs a year-long ‘Women’s Development Programme’ set up in 2014
to raise the profile of women academics. Two members of the UoA so far have participated,
Wallace in 2016-17, and Llewelyn in 2018-19. The Unit’s current gender distribution is almost
exactly balanced (3.6 FTE woman and four men), with 1.6 female professors. Promotion
opportunities and research support are equally available to part-time and full-time staff. More
broadly, the UoA’s research contributes to debates and awareness around gender and diversity,
particularly through the work of the Centre for Gender Studies and the cluster of work on Women’s
Writing, but also through our work on refugees. In March 2020, USW became only the second
university in Wales to be awarded University of Sanctuary status by City of Sanctuary. As USW’s
Refugee Champion, Chick manages and advises on the support refugees can get from the
university and promotes the USW Refugee Sanctuary Scheme. He also sits on USW’s Race,
Religion and Belief Committee, and is a member of USW’s Equality and Diversity Steering Group,
and Refugee and Migration Studies Community of Expertise. Wallace is a member of USW’s
Decolonising the Curriculum Community of Expertise, and several other UoA members are actively
engaged with the project of ‘decolonising’ modules and reading lists.




                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income
Given the increasingly fierce competition for research funding, the development of external
collaborations to maximise capture of grant income has been a priority since 2014. Unit members
have continued to apply for research funding from a variety of traditional funders, including
Leverhulme, British Academy and AHRC, but they have increasingly looked to other sources,
including arts organisations. External funding has been secured as follows: Chick was awarded
£14,596 for a KESS2 (Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarship) funded MRes studentship for a
project on ESOL provision and the Syrian Vulnerable Persons Resettlement Scheme. With Dr
Catherine Camps (Deputy Director of USW’s Centre for the Enhancement of Learning and
Teaching), he was also awarded an Advance HE Good Practice grant of £4,000 to research the
outcomes of USW’s Refugee Sanctuary Scheme and assess how refugees’ well-being can be
transformed by opportunities to develop skills and gain qualifications. Entwistle gained two SIP
partnership awards (Strategic Insight Programme, funded by HEFCW): £2,200 to work with RNIB
Cymru in November 2014, and £2,500 to work with the National Trust in June 2014. Llewelyn was
awarded £1,338 from Literature Wales’s Literature for Well-being Funding Scheme in August 2019
for ‘Speak to Me’, which offered creative writing workshops to Syrian and Sudanese refugees.

Impact has been a key priority and internal awards have provided seedcorn investment for projects
such as Chick’s research on ESOL provision for refugees and Entwistle’s ‘Enlli Weave’ and ‘“So
much depends…”’ Cardiff Bay project. Entwistle was awarded £3,500 from USW’s RBE
(Research and Business Engagement) Impact Investment Scheme to work with Cardiff Story
Museum in November 2015, while Chick was awarded £10K from USW’s Strategic Research and
Impact Fund in 2019 in order to develop his research on Managed Refugee Resettlement.

Infrastructure and Facilities
Research at USW is supported by the Research and Innovation Services (RISe) team. English has
benefitted from major developments in the University’s research infrastructure and facilities
spearheaded by RISe during this period. In particular, these developments have supported the
UoA’s strategic prioritisation of the recruitment and improved support for research students. The
opening of the new Graduate School in December 2018 brought postgraduate researchers
together into one interdisciplinary community, enhancing the development opportunities available
to them. Research students already benefit from access to the Postgraduate Centre in Ty
Crawshay which provides a social learning space, meeting ‘pods’ and access to networked PCs,
email, phones and photocopiers etc. This is especially valuable to the part-time distance-learning
MPhil in Writing students who are only on campus occasionally for residencies. Within the Faculty,
full-time postgraduate researchers are supplied with shared offices, including computer facilities,
while part-time students can hot-desk in a shared room. The introduction of PhD Manager has
streamlined administration and record-keeping for both PhD and MPhil students. English has also
benefitted from support and advice from the newly-appointed Research Librarian during the period.

In addition, RISe has supported the UoA’s prioritisation of Impact activities, building on our tradition
of public engagement and our strong links with local communities, creative industries, museums,
art galleries, voluntary organisations, and the media. As well as its programme of Impact
Masterclasses and lunchtime workshops, the Research Impact Team has run bespoke sessions
specifically for the English Unit.


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



Several of the UoA’s Research Clusters sit within broader USW research structures which
encourage interdisciplinary contacts and wider impact. The English Unit currently hosts the Centre
for Gender Studies in Wales (Co-director: Wallace), which provides a focus within USW for
multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary research in gender generally and in relation to Welsh history,
culture and society specifically. This provides a wider context for English work in the Research
Clusters on Women’s Writing and Welsh Writing in English (Entwistle and Wallace). The
Centre hosts the annual public Ursula Masson Memorial Lecture, which is sponsored by the
Women’s Archive Wales/Archif Menywod Cymru and held on International Women’s Day. Recent
speakers include Prof Laura McAllister, Dr Rhian Davies, Prof Katie Gramich, Prof Kirstie Bohata,
and Dr Sian Rhiannon Williams. The tenth anniversary lecture in 2018 was held at the Senedd
(Welsh Parliament) and delivered by Dr Ryland Wallace as part of a full-day event, ‘Women’s
Activism: Past and present’, to celebrate the centenary of women’s partial suffrage. The event was
opened by Ann Jones MS, Deputy Presiding Officer at the Senedd, and panel speakers included
Women’s Archive Chair Catrin Stevens, Deputy Minister and Chief Whip Jane Hutt MS, Welsh
language activist Meg Elis, and Bethan Sayed MS. The lecture was preceded by performances by
Lesley Garrett and others from Welsh National Opera’s Rhondda Rips it Up!, a new opera which
celebrated the life of Lady Rhondda (Margaret Haig Thomas). The 2019 lecture was held in
tandem with the opening of the award-winning Forty Voices, Forty Years project touring exhibition
led by Women’s Aid in collaboration with the George Ewart Evans Storytelling Centre. The Centre
for Gender Studies also hosted other events including ‘Greenham Remembered’, a seminar held in
conjunction with Our Chartist Heritage Women’s History Group (October 2018).

Two other clusters – Critical-creative Writing, and Textuality and Cultural Spaces - have
especially close connections to USW’s Centre for the Study of Media and Culture in Small
Nations (Co-director: Entwistle 2013-16), and to the George Ewart Evans Centre for
Storytelling (Entwistle sits on the steering group and Mills is a member). Both centres enable
collaborations, such as Entwistle’s ‘Enlli Weave’ and ‘“So much depends…”’ projects (see Section
4), with other researchers and external stakeholders.

The English Unit’s commitment to research and impact which benefits local and national
communities is enhanced and enabled by two key facilities on USW’s Treforest campus. Firstly,
the Library has a significant collection of Welsh writing in English, including founding journals and
periodicals in the discipline such as Dock Leaves, Anglo-Welsh Review/New Welsh Review, Poetry
Wales and Planet. This collection has its roots in the university’s evolution from the South Wales
and Monmouthshire School of Mines, which was established in 1913. A major refurbishment of the
Library (completed in 2013) consolidated this collection in a dedicated section, developed social
learning spaces and enhanced research facilities, online resources and databases for staff and
students. Secondly, USW has an important collection of visual art from south Wales over the last
eighty years. Primarily paintings and works on paper, it also includes fine art photography,
ceramics, sculpture and wood. Among the major artists represented are David Nash, Lilian
Rathmell, Ernest Zobole, Shani Rhys James, Joan Baker, Charles Burton, Josef Herman, Chuck
Rapoport and Alan Sainsbury. The collection is showcased via regular exhibitions in the
university’s museum-status art gallery, Oriel y Bont, which has a dedicated curator who has
worked closely with the English Unit on several exhibitions (see Section 4). Wallace currently
serves as Chair of the Art Works Committee which includes representation from the National
Museum Wales and supports the curator.


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
The UoA’s commitment to collaboration has increased during the current assessment period.
Collaboration, whether local, national, inter-institutional or international, has been at the heart of
our Impact strategy and has also informed its other activities, including conference organisation. In
addition to the collaborations which are outlined in the Unit’s two Impact Case Studies – Chick with
the Welsh Refugee Council and Rhondda Cynon Taff Council, and Mills with Vic Mills, Blackwood
Little Theatre and Anglican churches in south east Wales - notable collaborations include:

   •   ‘Speak to me’ (funded by Literature Wales’s Literature for Well-Being Funding Scheme:
       £1,338). Led by Llewelyn and building on Chick’s work, this project paired Syrian and
       Sudanese refugees resettled in Rhondda Cynon Taff with native English speakers in a
       series of creative writing workshops. It also included USW sound technicians, a photo
       journalist, artists, and representatives from the BBC. The project set out to aid language
       acquisition but also demonstrated that integration is a two-way process. It produced an
       exhibition of words, photographs, art and sound recordings originally planned for April/May
       2020 in Oriel y Bont, but currently previewing online because of Covid-19:
       https://gallery.southwales.ac.uk/whats/
   •   Refugee Week (15-19 June, 2020). USW in partnership with the Welsh Refugee Council
       hosted a series of online events designed to educate the public about issues surrounding
       forced migrant resettlement in Wales. This showcased the work of Chick and Llewelyn:
       https://www.southwales.ac.uk/research/research-news/refugee-week-2020/ The ‘Speak to
       Me’ presentation had over 2.2K post-event views on USW’s Facebook page.
   •   ‘Enlli Weave’ Film/Text installation (Gwynedd National Trust, Bardsey Trust). Entwistle
       collaborated with photographer David Barnes to produce this experimental critical/creative
       text-art response to the changed character of Bardsey’s Victorian lighthouse, the tallest in
       the UK. The work was exhibited in galleries: Plas Glyn y Weddw, Llanbedrog (May 2016);
       Porth y Swnt, Aberdaron (Winter 2016); ffotogallery, Turner House, Penarth (Oct-Nov
       2016). https://www.southwales.ac.uk/business-services/our-stories/
   •    ‘“So much depends . . .”: using text, art and digital technology for site-specific place-
       making in a complex public space’ (Cardiff Council and Harbour Authority, National Trust,
       RSPB, Cardiff Story Museum). Entwistle collaborated with Inga Burrows, Nathan Thomas,
       Thomas Ware (all USW), Fiona Carroll (UWE), and Gareth Loudon (Cardiff Metropolitan
       University) to explore how the resources of the literary text, sense- and body-led arts
       production, and digital technology might be harnessed to design inclusivity and user-
       responsiveness into site-specific art-making in Cardiff Bay. A distinctive weather vane
       which changes sound with the wind direction (inspired by Virginia Woolf’s To the
       Lighthouse) was installed on the Harbour Arm of Cardiff Barrage as a result. A further
       research project, ‘From data to business value: Developing a data physicalisation
       framework to transform data into value for Welsh based business’, led by Carroll at Cardiff
       Metropolitan with Entwistle on the Advisory Panel, won £210,563 from the Welsh
       Government Smart Expertise scheme (summer 2020).
   •   Gross has been involved in a number of high-profile collaborations including writing a
       libretto for the oratorio The King in the Car Park with composer Benjamin Frank Vaughan. It
       was first performed in Leicester Cathedral in July 2015, with 300 school children. Gross’s
       poetry/art collaboration with artist Valerie Coffin Price produced exhibitions and the book, A
       Fold in the River (Seren 2015). And his collaboration with education staff from the National

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


       Museum of Wales in 2016, entitled ‘Extremophiles: poetry as imaginative interpretation on
       the edges of the natural sciences’, produced a book of poetry for children, Dark Sky Park
       (2018), and a cross-curricular resource for schools.
   •   Oriel y Bont collaborations – UoA members have collaborated with the curators of USW’s
       museum-status gallery and a range of artists on a number of exhibitions. ‘Interior
       Monologues’ (2019), for instance, paired artist alumni with Creative Writing students, staff
       and Emeritus Professor Curtis to respond to artworks from the permanent collection and
       produce a new exhibition with a ‘zine’. Other collaborations include: ‘The Periodic Table’
       (2019); ‘Issue International’ (2019); ‘Vis-à-Vis’, (2018); ‘Engaging with the Past’ (2015); and
       ‘The River Next Door’ (2015). See: https://gallery.southwales.ac.uk/

Activities and Contributions to the Research Base, Economy and Society
UoA members contribute to the Research Base, Economy and Society through a range of events,
organisations and activities, both nationally and internationally. A selection of these activities is
listed below.

Organisation of conferences and scholarly encounters: Events organised or co-organised by
Unit members include the following: as Newsletter editor for the IATEFL (International Association
of Teaching English as a Foreign Language) ESOL Special Interest Group, Chick co-organised
the Pre-Conference Event day at IATEFL's Liverpool Conference (April 2019). Webb became a
member of the organising committee for IATEFL’s Special Interest Group, IATEFL Teachers
Research!, based in Bahçeşehir University, Istanbul, Turkey in 2016 and became a member of
IATEFL’s scientific committee in June 2018. Wallace was co-convenor, with Dr Ingibjörg
Ágústsdóttir (University of Iceland), and Dr Jane Finucane (USW), of Representing the Tudors: an
interdisciplinary conference, University of South Wales, 10-11 July 2015 (an accompanying
exhibition, ‘Engaging with the Past’, Oriel y Bont, USW, curated by Dr Ceri Thomas, included
written responses to the artworks by a variety of critical and creative writers). She also co-
organised, with Dr Aidan Byrne (University of Wolverhampton), the Association of Welsh Writing in
English (AWWE) annual conference, The Country and the City: rural and urban Wales, 27-29
March 2015 at Gregynog Hall, University of Wales. As a member of the Modernist Network Cymru
Committee, she co-organised the inaugural MONC conference, A Century On: Modernist Studies
in Wales, Swansea University, 1 September 2015; and the second MONC conference, Word and
Image, Yr Drwm, National Library of Wales, Aberystwyth, 12-13 September 2017. In addition the
Unit held two inter-institutional research symposia with Cardiff Metropolitan University (May and
September 2017).

Invited keynote/plenary lectures, papers, performances and other activities: Unit members
have delivered 14 keynote/plenary lectures, seven invited/guest lectures, 36 conference papers,
ten invited talks, 16 presentations/panel discussions, and over 50 poetry/prose readings and talks.

Selected examples include: Chick delivered a keynote paper, ‘A Report on the integration of
forced Migrants in Wales’, at the Institute of Education, UCL (Dec 2019). Entwistle delivered a
guest lecture, ‘Sex, Text and Intertext: Revisiting Rapture: Carol Ann Duffy: The Legacy of the
Laureateship’, at the British Academy (Sept 2019), and a keynote lecture, ‘On Edge: maps, poems
and reading (in) Wales’, Creating and Representing Place, Bangor University (Jan 2016). Gross
was Writer in Residence, Poetry on the Move Festival, University of Canberra, Australia (including
a Keynote lecture, Masterclass, panel on Material Poetics, Interview with Mark Tredinnick, Closing
panel, and reading at Canberra Contemporary Art Space, Gorman Centre, Canberra) in Sept


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


2015, and gave a keynote lecture at Creative Writing in the World, York St John University (12
June 15). Mills gave the following keynote lectures: ‘”What’s new to speak?”‘: Writing (is Reading)
Between the Lines’, Writing Between the Lines Symposium, Cardiff Metropolitan University
(September 2016); ‘Plot and Tell: Story, Secret, Place’, Storytelling and Place Symposium. George
Ewart Evans Centre for Storytelling, University of South Wales (April 2017); ‘”The Mirror Crack’d”:
Postcritical Tennyson’, New Modes of Art Writing 2 Conference, Manchester School of Art
(November 2017). Towsey was a Panellist at the World Science Fiction Convention, Dublin (Aug
2019); gave a presentation (as ‘D.K. Fields’), ‘Widow's Welcome: How We Co-Wrote Without
Killing Each Other’, as the sole representative for the publisher Head of Zeus to librarians,
wholesalers, publishers, and industry bookbuyers, as part of an Askews and Holt event (June
2019), and was a Panellist on Sympathy for the Zombie, programmed reader, and kaffeeklatsch
host at the World Science Fiction Convention, London (August 2014). Wallace delivered a keynote
lecture, ’“Everything is out of place”: women and (meta-)historical biofiction’, Herstory Re-Imagined
conference, King’s College London (Dec 2019); a keynote lecture, ‘Writing Revolution: the Radical
Possibilities of Modernist Historical Fiction’ , annual Historical Fiction Research Network
conference, Manchester Central Library (Feb 2019); a sell-out event, Christopher Meredith talks to
Diana Wallace, Hay Festival (June 2018); the Assuming Gender annual open lecture, ‘Female
Gothic Histories’, Cardiff University (Dec 2016); was an invited Panel Speaker on Representing
History: A Panel Discussion, Beryl Bainbridge: Events, King’s College London (Sept 2014); a Main
Panel Speaker on Confronting Historical Fact with the Unexplained, Historical Novel Society
Annual Conference, University of Westminster (Sept 2014); and Plenary Speaker, ‘Mid-Career: A
Dangerous Age for a Woman’, Issues and Strategies for Mid-Career Academics: A CWWA Day
Symposium, Northumbria University (April 2014). Webb gave invited lectures, ‘The problem with
and proposed solution for UK pre-service native English-speaking teachers’ knowledge about
grammar’ (Feb 2017), and ‘Knowledge about grammar and native English speakers’ (Nov 2019),
via Skype to International MA TESOL students at Bahçeşehir University, Turkey.

Editorial positions: Dunlop is on the Editorial Board for ANTIPODES: A Global Journal of
Australian/New Zealand Literature. Gross is on the Advisory Board for the International Poetry
Studies Institute, University of Canberra, Australia. Mills was Poetry Editor (with Damian Walford
Davies) of Scintilla, the international peer-reviewed journal of the Vaughan Association (2015-19).
Saunders is an Editor on Literary Geographies. Wallace is Co-editor of The International Journal
of Welsh Writing in English; Co-editor of the Gender Studies in Wales series, University of Wales
Press; a member of the Editorial Board, University of Wales Press; and on the advisory board for
Journal of Historical Fictions.

Membership of Research Councils and similar Committees: Entwistle serves on the
Publishing Grants Panel (English) of the Welsh Books Council, on the Council for Storytelling in
Wales, and is a member of the AHRC Peer Review College. Gross was Co-chair of the QAA
Subject Benchmark Statement group for the development of a Creative Writing benchmark -
successfully published March 2016; and was appointed to the Council of the Society of Authors in
April 2017.

Peer refereeing/reviewing: Unit members have provided peer reviews for a wide range of
publications and bodies including:
   • Journals: Forum for Modern Languages; Contemporary Women’s Writing; Literature and
       Science; Textual Practice; Journal of Religion and Literature: Transactions of the Institute of
       British Geographers: Annals of the Association of American Geographers; Geografiska


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


       Annaler: Series B; Human Geography; Geohumanities; Space, Place and Gender; Social
       and Cultural Geography; Cultural Geographies; Urban Studies; Journal of Rural Studies;
       Journal of Geography in Higher Education; English; Feminist Theory; Women’s Writing;
       Journal of Popular Romance Studies; Tulsa Studies in Women’s Literature.
   •   Publishers: Bloomsbury Academic, Edinburgh University Press, Pandora, Ashgate, Oxford
       University Press, Palgrave, University of Wales Press, Lexington Books USA, LIT Verlag,
       University of Missouri Press, Manchester University Press.
   •   Funding councils and bodies: Commonwealth Doctoral Awards; Swiss National Science
       Foundation; Welsh Books Council; Irish Research Council for the Humanities and Social
       Sciences (IRCHSS); Israel Science Foundation.
   •   Learned Societies: Learned Society of Wales.

External Examining: During the assessment period, UoA members have acted as external
examiner for 18 PhD theses in the UK, Denmark, Australia and Canada. Chick was external
examiner for the MA in TESOL, University of Hertfordshire (2014-18). Gross was external
examiner for the Master of Studies, University of Cambridge Institute of Continuing Education
(2014-17). Wallace is external examiner for the MA in English, Northumbria University (2017- ).

HEI consultancies: Mills was an External Member of a panel reviewing Postgraduate Research
Provision, Kingston University, 2014; and an External Member of Review and Validation panel,
Cardiff Metropolitan University, 2015. Wallace has acted as External Assessor for professorial
promotions at University of Iceland (2015), University of Windsor, Canada (2016), and University of
Ibadan, Nigeria (2016), and as External Advisor for the MA Poetics of Imagination at Dartington
Arts School (2020).

Honours, fellowships and prizes awarded to staff include:
  • Chick: Winner of the National Inspire Award for community collaboration awarded by
     Learning and Work Institute for the USW TESOL collaborative project with the Welsh
     Refugee Council, June 2016.
  • Entwistle: Welsh Crucible (2014).
  • Gross: Love Songs of Carbon selected as a Poetry Book Society Recommendation, 2015;
     Love Songs of Carbon shortlisted for Roland Mathais Poetry Award, Wales Book of the
     Year. Gross received the Society of Authors’ Cholmondeley Award in 2017.
   • Mills: Winner of the Cinnamon Press Poetry Pamphlet Competition for 2015.
   • Saunders: Welsh Crucible (2016).
   • Towsey: Welsh Crucible (2017).
   • Wallace: Fellow of the Learned Society of Wales (2016).

Adjudication Panels: Gross was the judge for: Manchester Prize for Children's Poetry (2014);
University of Canberra Vice Chancellor's Prize (2014); Hippocrates Prize (2014); Medicine
Unboxed Creative Prize (2015); and Ware Poetry Competition (2016). Wallace was a judge on the
M. Wynn Thomas Prize (2013-14).




                                                                                          Page 15
