Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: SOAS University of London

 Unit of Assessment: Politics and International Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview
 Our Unit of Assessment is unique in its focus on the politics and international relations of Asia,
 Africa and the Middle East. We are guided by a strong sense of purpose as an empirical,
 conceptual, practical and, above all, critical resource for academic and non-academic colleagues
 with a focus on the Global South.

 The UoA consists of 30 staff FTE (31 headcount, 28 permanent, 3 fixed-term). It is primarily
 composed of the Department of Politics and International Studies and includes closely
 affiliated colleagues from smaller SOAS units with expertise in South Asia and security studies
 (Paliwal), public policy and international environmental politics (Heubaum), gender studies and
 political theory (Tudor), as well as postdoctoral and early career researchers working on the
 Middle East (Tas, Ram) and Africa (Mulugeta).

 Our research engages with issues of governance, conflict, identity, political economy and the
 political ideas that shape them. These areas preoccupy scholarship everywhere, but they can
 look profoundly different from perspectives in the Global South. Thus, our interventions
 challenge how the world is understood and organised. Our approach to exploring questions in,
 from and about Asia, Africa and the Middle East allows us to practice as well as promote the
 decolonisation of ideas and institutions. Some of the highlights are:
     • We are a particularly diverse UoA: women produced 42% of our outputs and staff from
          BAME backgrounds produced 44% in the 2014-20 REF Assessment Period. This
          contribution represents our staff balance, including amongst professors, 43% of whom
          are women and 43% who have a BAME background (§2.1.1);
     • We prioritise working with research partners in the Global South, building close
          collaborative networks in large complex projects such as Gallagher’s ERC project
          Understanding Statehood Through Architecture, Khalili’s ESRC project Sinews of War
          and Trade, and Adamson’s Horizon 2020 project Migration Governance and Asylum
          Crises (§3.1.1, 4.1);
     • The total value of our research awards (including partner costs) during the 2014-20 REF
          period was £3,214,229, more than trebling our research income over the last six
          years from £793,853 to £2,420,992 (§3.1.1);
     • Most of us do extensive fieldwork, using ethnographic approaches to develop deep
          relationships with the people and politics of our regions (§1.2.4). Many staff are fluent in
          the languages of the regions where they work (§1.2.5);
     • We produced deeply researched monographs that challenge and innovate—19 in the
          2014-20 REF period, 13 with university presses (§1.2.1), and 6 of which have won
          recognition from prize panels (§4.4.3);
     • Our Impact Case Studies build on this grounded understanding of politics: Clark’s
          challenge to conceptions of justice in Rwanda led to a change in extradition policy
          relating to genocide crimes; Nadarajah’s understanding of post-civil-war relations in Sri
          Lanka led to a change of UK asylum policy on the Tamil diaspora; and Sabaratnam and
          Dovey’s work on decolonisation in Mozambique and African film helped universities and
          museums to establish decolonisation projects (§1.2.5);
     • We pass our research ethos on to our diverse PhD student body (52% women and 53%
          BAME background), providing a unique training programme that draws on the expertise
          of faculty members across the UoA (§2.3). Most conduct extensive fieldwork and
          produce exceptional dissertations, 6 prize-winning in the 2014-20 REF period (§4.4.3).

 1.1 Structure
 One aim of our 2014 UoA strategy, commended by the REF panel for its clear sense of purpose,
 was the formation of thematic research clusters and investment in departmental research

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 centres. Our structure is designed to maximise the cross-fertilisation of ideas and the creation of
 working partnerships. During the 2014-20 REF period our UoA has been organised into two
 overlapping layers of regional and thematic expertise. These produced a creative
 environment for exchanging knowledge and methodologies and establishing collaborations
 across geographical and sub-disciplinary research.

 1.1.1 The first layer is composed of our core regional clusters: Middle East (Abou-El-Fadl,
 Adib-Moghaddam, Ali, El-Kazaz, Ismail, Khalili, Kotef, Ram, Sinmazdemir, Tas, Tripp, Ziadah);
 Sub-Saharan Africa (Chan, Clark, Fraser, Gallagher, Mulugeta, Sabaratnam); South Asia
 (Bajpai, Nelson, Nadarajah, Paliwal, Rao, Saez); and East Asia (Buehler, Han, Surak). These
 overlapped with and were complemented by expertise on international politics (Adamson,
 Berenskoetter, Eagleton-Pierce, Heubaum, Laffey, Nadarajah, Nisancioglu, Rao, Sabaratnam,
 Tudor, Vinjamuri).

 1.1.2 Regional clusters and International politics intersect with a second layer of thematic
 clusters:
     ● Government and Governance: authoritarian and democratic systems; voting and
        elections; leaders and performative politics; transparency and accountability; social and
        political protest movements;
     ● Conflict, Violence and Transitional Justice: structures of conflict and post-conflict
        politics; practices of resistance and intervention; state violence; politics of justice and
        human rights in local, international and transitional contexts;
     ● Formation and Contestation of Political Identities: subjectivities and collective
        identities in colonial and postcolonial configurations; migration and diaspora politics;
        nationalism and state-building; politics of representation (race, gender, sexuality,
        religion); transnational solidarity and friendship;
     ● Political Economy and Infrastructure: comparative and international political economy;
        business and labour markets; economics of citizenship; international institutions;
        evolution of global capitalist systems; politics of infrastructure, logistics and trade;
     ● Political Concepts and Ideologies: travel, translation and use of concepts in and
        across different contexts, globally; methodology of concept analysis; interaction between
        political thought (Islamic, African, South Asian) and practice; postcolonial and decolonial
        thought; practices of theorising and theory-building.

 1.1.3 Four UoA research groups foster further collaboration and knowledge-exchange
 across these clusters and themes: the Centre on Conflict, Rights and Justice, the Centre of
 the Politics of Energy and Security, the Centre for Comparative Political Thought, and the
 Migration, Mobility and Membership Research Group (§4). This work was supported by staff
 involvement in 12 area-focused and interdisciplinary centres and institutes at the
 university level (IES§1). Reading groups, research seminars and writing workshops organised
 within and around these groups provided many forums for staff to engage with colleagues within
 and beyond the UoA (§4.1.4).

 Research generated through these clusters speaks to the major disciplinary subfields of
 Comparative Politics, International Relations, and Political Theory. As the range of outlets listed
 below illustrates (§1.2.4), the clusters also have a strong interdisciplinary character, grounded
 in sociology, law, geography and gender studies.

 1.2 Research strategy and implementation
 Our strategy has been motivated by an ambition to use perspectives from Asia, Africa, and the
 Middle East to critically engage with our discipline. Our access to non-Western political contexts
 produces novel empirical insights and conceptual innovation, particularly in challenging
 mainstream perspectives. One goal has been to provide deeper understanding of political
 realities in the Global South. Another has been to connect analyses of the politics of the
 Global South to the politics of the Global North in our thematic areas. Both have built knowledge
 that disrupts conventional thinking about the location and nature of world politics and
 develops our ability to influence political practices both within the UK and in the regions we

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 study. These aims have informed our investment in a growing network of students and scholars
 committed to decolonising the production, representation and dissemination of knowledge
 (IES§2, 1.3.2).

 1.2.1 During the 2014-20 REF cycle, we have produced a strong portfolio of work that critically
 addresses mainstream concerns and debates as experienced and understood in the regions we
 study.

 In line with a commitment to produce substantial, in-depth studies, UoA staff have published 19
 monographs with respected publishers, including ten books with Cambridge University
 Press, two each with Duke University Press and Routledge, and one each with Oxford
 University Press, Hurst/Oxford University Press, Polity Press, Rowman and Littlefield, and Pluto
 Press. These include:
      • Buehler’s The Politics of Shari’a Law: Islamist Activists and the State in Democratizing
         Indonesia (Cambridge University Press, 2016). Exemplary in its use of in-depth field
         research and country knowledge to engage in key issues in comparative politics;
      • Clark’s Distant Justice: The Impact of the International Criminal Court on African Politics
         (Cambridge University Press, 2018). Short-listed for the 2019 Lemkin Award by the
         Institute for the Study of Genocide, this book provides a profound critical analysis of the
         effects of international institutions on Politics in Africa;
      • Ismail’s The Rule of Violence: Subjectivity, Memory and Government in Syria
         (Cambridge University Press, 2018). Short-listed for the 2019 Lemkin Award by the
         Institute for the Study of Genocide, the book is based on long-term ethnographic
         research in the study of state violence in authoritarian regimes;
      • Rao’s Out of Time: The Queer Politics of Postcoloniality (Oxford University Press, 2020).
         This interdisciplinary work explores the relationships between the politics of gender and
         colonial histories, geopolitical encounters and transnational entanglements;
      • Sabaratnam’s Decolonizing Intervention: International Statebuilding in Mozambique
         (Rowman and Littlefield, 2017, open access). Winner of the 2019 ISA Global
         Development Studies Section Book Award, the book is exemplary in its use of a
         decolonial framework to understand how past colonial practices impact contemporary aid
         and development practices.

 We have published more than 200 peer-reviewed articles and book chapters, targeting outlets
 associated with the three main subfields of political science as well as a variety of
 interdisciplinary journals.

 Within International Relations, we published, among others, in the European Journal of
 International Relations, Journal of Peace Research, Review of International Studies,
 International Political Sociology, Journal of Global Security Studies, International Studies
 Perspectives, and Millennium. Within Comparative Politics our work was published in
 disciplinary journals such as Comparative Studies in Society and History, Journal of Common
 Market Studies, Nations and Nationalism, Nationalism and Ethnic Politics, Journal of Ethnic and
 Migration Studies, Ethnicities, as well as Area Studies journals such as Journal of Modern
 African Studies, Critical African Studies, Journal of Eastern African Studies, Modern Asian
 Studies, Journal of Asian Studies, Middle Eastern Law and Governance, and Review of Middle
 East Studies. Within Political Theory we published in Political Theory, Feminist Theory, Radical
 Philosophy, and International Theory. We also published our research in interdisciplinary
 journals such as Society and Space, Political Geography, International Journal of Urban and
 Regional Research, World Development, Business and Politics, Socio-Economic Review,
 International Journal of Constitutional Law, Law and Social Inquiry, Social Text, International
 Feminist Journal of Politics, International Migration Review and the Journal of World History.

 1.2.2 We have disseminated and showcased our research activities to wider audiences by: (i)
 making publications openly accessible directly through Gold Open Access (14 journal articles)
 and through the institutional repository SOAS Research Online (IES§2) and platforms such as

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Academia.edu and Researchgate; (ii) sharing our insights in traditional and new media, including
 popular blogs and platforms such as The Conversation; (iii) regular announcements of
 publications on the Department’s Facebook and Twitter feeds; and (iv) a comprehensive
 compilation of events and achievements in our termly newsletter posted on our website and
 shared with students, alumni and colleagues.

 1.2.3 The UoA has fostered research-led teaching, a strategic goal formulated in our 2014 REF
 return. Research clusters and centres drove a comprehensive curriculum reorganisation in
 2019/20. New research-led, specialist advanced modules draw final year undergraduates into
 more cutting-edge studies and debates and encourage postgraduate students to participate in
 our centre activities, supporting their own dissertation research. All staff teach at least one
 module close to their research interests.

 1.2.4 We support a wide range of research methodologies, including political ethnography,
 historical sociology, discourse analysis, and cross-national comparative research, as well as
 large-n surveys and quantitative analysis. We take particular pride in qualitative methodologies
 rooted in extensive fieldwork, and enabling longer stays in the field has been a strategic
 priority. During the 2014-20 REF period our staff spent extended time in Africa (Central Africa,
 Côte d’Ivoire, Ethiopia, Ghana, Malawi, Mozambique, South Africa, Zambia, Zimbabwe); East
 and Southeast Asia (China, Japan, Korea; Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand), South and Central
 Asia (India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka; Kazakhstan, Russia), and the Middle East and North Africa
 (Egypt, Iran, Israel/Palestine; Lebanon, Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Emirates). Staff also
 undertook innovative multi-sited research, such as Khalili’s ethnography of maritime routes,
 infrastructure and labour, conducted on large transcontinental container ships. We have invested
 in our capacity in quantitative methods, opening up a full-time position in methods and
 awarding it to a quantitative specialist (Sinmazdemir) in 2019 and dedicating a grant for one PhD
 student to attend a summer/winter school in quantitative methods. This complements our
 existing competitive grants for three staff and PhD students to attend the Institute for Qualitative
 and Multi-Method Research at Syracuse University (§3.2.4).

 1.2.5 Crucial to our approach is an ability to marshal substantive knowledge about African,
 Asian, and Middle Eastern political contexts as persuasive evidence for our disciplinary and
 interdisciplinary interventions. For many of us this relies on fluency in the languages of the
 countries in which we work. Here the UoA benefits from being nested in an institution in which
 the languages and cultures of Asia, Africa and the Middle East are a specialist focus. Familiarity
 with and access to multiple languages and ways of thinking enables us to reimagine, reorient,
 and reshape the analytical puzzles traditionally explored by political scientists. The non-Western
 languages our staff use to conduct research include, inter alia, Amharic, Arabic, Bahasa
 Indonesia, Chinese, Hebrew, Hindi, Japanese, Kazakh, Korean, Kurdish, Persian, Russian,
 Tamil, Thai, Turkish, and Urdu.

 1.2.6 The UoA maintained a strong commitment to integrity in research practice, particularly
 essential given our commitment to fieldwork. New research projects are channelled through the
 SOAS Research Office and require internal ethical approval. The PhD upgrade process (§2.3.2)
 includes a formal ethics approval overseen by the Department’s Research Ethics Officer, who
 is part of and facilitates communication with the university’s Research and Ethics Panel. In line
 with SOAS policy, staff and doctoral students are required to complete the Epigeum Research
 Integrity online course (IES§4.1).

 1.3 Impact strategy
 1.3.1 A core aim of our research strategy has been to build on the success of our 2014 Impact
 Case Studies, which the REF panel judged to be ‘of predominantly outstanding quality’. Taking
 advantage of our unique expertise and London location, we established an environment in which
 UoA staff can seek and pursue opportunities to intervene in public debates, influence the
 views of policymakers and practitioners on local and (inter)national levels through
 engagements with print, audio and visual media and global networks involving (former) state
 officials, government agencies, thinktanks, foundations, cultural institutions, businesses and

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 NGOs (§4). The UoA has supported impact activities by organising forums for sharing
 approaches and fostering networks to support knowledge-exchange; encouraging research-
 based consultancy, including by making adjustments to workload or teaching schedules;
 providing spaces for presenting research to policy-audiences, including funding travel to interact
 with and disseminate research among practitioners in the SOAS regions.

 As outlined in Section 4, activities and impact achieved by our UoA far exceeds our three
 Impact Case Studies submitted for REF2021. That said, these case studies exemplify a
 successful pursuit of our strategic goals:

 The author of our first Impact Case Study (Clark) helped establish new grounds to pursue
 the extradition of genocide suspects in Rwanda by challenging negative perceptions of the
 workings of the local gacaca community-based courts. Clark informed foreign courts about the
 capacity of the Rwandan judiciary to maintain political independence and provided historical and
 regional context to help judges understand and analyse crimes committed. This contributed to
 increasing accountability for Rwandan genocide crimes and public and practitioner awareness of
 legal and historical issues raised in court.

 Our second Impact Case Study (Nadarajah) built on research on post-civil war relations between
 the Tamil diaspora and the Sri Lankan state. Nadarajah’s expert evidence to the high court
 contributed to a change in UK asylum law and policy by recognising participants in lawful
 Tamil diaspora-based political activity as a novel category of persons ‘at risk’ of harm if returned.
 This provided thousands of Tamils engaging in lawful protests and advocacy against the Sri
 Lankan authorities with new or additional grounds for seeking protection.

 Our third Impact Case Study (Sabaratnam and Dovey) shows the influence of fruitful
 collaborations in setting the decolonising knowledge agenda. Sabaratnam’s work helped
 academics across disciplines in the UK, Canada, Norway, Sweden and Nigeria to change their
 curricula, syllabi, and pedagogical style to make Higher Education teaching more inclusive and
 globally representative. It also prompted and supported universities in decolonising their
 institutional practices and policies and had an impact on practices of museum curation and
 student activism.

 1.4 Future strategic priorities
 Our strategic priorities for the next five years are driven by our desire to strengthen our research
 and enhance its broader impact. Specifically, we aim to:
     1. Develop more large-scale funded projects that address pressing political challenges
        such as climate change, global inequalities, racial injustice and other areas where we
        can offer a unique ‘decolonial’ perspective (§2.3.4; 3.4; 4.1.6);
     2. Expand and institutionalise collaborations with organisations and actors in and from
        the Global South, with a focus on supporting equitable research and knowledge transfer
        partnerships (§2.3.4; 3.4; 4.1.6);
     3. Strengthen our commitment to methodological pluralism through training and hiring
        new staff who complement our existing strengths (§2.1.3; 2.2);
     4. Invest in important new thematic areas such as global health, artificial intelligence and
        climate change. Our commitment to this is exemplified by our two latest hires with
        expertise in the politics of technology and cloud infrastructure (El-Kazaz), and earth
        systems theory and eco-socialist futures (Albert) (§2.1.3; 3.4);
     5. Increase our policy impact by engaging with new audiences on key geopolitical issues
        such as the implications of the rise of China, the role of Africa in the world (§2.2.5; 4.2.5);
     6. Influence our discipline by encouraging deeper conceptual links between the local and
        the global, drawing on our research in Asia, Africa and the Middle East to challenge
        disciplinary boundaries and provide alternative accounts of key transnational political
        challenges (§4.3.1).

 These objectives will be pursued through individual and team applications to large collaborative
 grants; new staff hires and research centres that reflect our staff’s research priorities; a

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 comprehensive engagement plan that includes media training, short courses and virtual events;
 and further investment in our research infrastructure to ensure a vibrant, collaborative and
 creative setting for our established, ECR and PhD researchers.


 2. People

 2.1. Staffing strategy
 During the 2014-20 REF period, staff recruitment has been geared towards developing regional
 expertise and global scope so as to strengthen the thematic clusters outlined above and with an
 eye on emerging areas. We have attracted energetic scholars with the potential to be first-class
 researchers, empirically grounded and conceptually creative, and with a commitment to inclusive
 teaching. Our recruitment strategy has aimed to sustain our positive record for staff equality and
 diversity.

 During the REF period the Department grew modestly from 28 FTE to 30 FTE, yet with notable
 movements. We made ten new permanent hires to replace lost capacities (due to retirement,
 death, or moves) and address growing demand for expertise in Middle East politics and
 international politics. Nine hires were at G8 or G9 levels, in the politics of Africa (Fraser),
 Southeast Asia (Buehler) and the Middle East (Abou-El-Fadl, El-Kazaz, Ziadah), also in
 overlap with political theory (Kotef) and quantitative methods (Sinmazdemir), as well as
 international politics (Nisancioglu) in overlap with South Asia (Nadarajah). In addition, we
 recruited Professor Julia Gallagher to strengthen our expertise in Africa and international
 politics. Of these ten hires, five are female and six have a BAME background.

 2.1.1 The 2014 REF panel took positive note of our attention to equality and diversity. We have
 demonstrated our strategic commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion by taking
 deliberate steps to promote opportunities for under-represented groups in academia. At the end
 of the current REF cycle the Department had a gender balance of F:M = 13:17 (head count)
 among permanent staff on a Teaching & Research contract, which is mirrored in our UoA
 submission. In our UoA’s outputs portfolio, women provide 42% of the 69 items (including
 proposed double-weighted items) and those from BAME groups provide 44% of outputs. The
 distribution in terms of rank among permanent staff is equally balanced at G8 (Lecturer): G9
 (SL/Reader): G10 (Professor) = 7:17:7 (head count). 43% of our Professors are female and
 43% have a BAME background. In addition, our UoA submission includes three staff at the
 post-doctoral stage. The UoA has actively supported the EDI agenda by funding initiatives such
 as Adamson’s contribution to a roundtable on ‘Diversity Recruitment and Hiring’ at the 2017
 APSA conference in San Francisco, and Tudor and Rao’s project on transnational/decolonial
 perspectives on (and beyond) the gender binary.

 2.1.2 Early Career Researchers (ECRs) are a dynamic part of our research environment. The
 UoA attracted and developed outstanding post-doctoral scholars by sponsoring applications
 for fellowships and establishing post-doctoral positions as part of large research grants (Ziadah,
 Mulugeta, Tomkinson, Dag). The UoA has also strategically pooled research income to hire
 ECRs full time on two-year Teaching & Research contracts (Maags, Artaud de la Ferriere). Many
 of our ECRs proceeded into permanent academic positions, including King’s College London
 (Farquhar), SOAS (Ziadah), Essex/Queen Mary (Viterbo), South Bank (Weizman), Portsmouth
 (Artaud de la Ferriere), Sheffield (Maags), Leiden/Netherlands (Thakur), and Kyung Kee/South
 Korea (Kim). We also supported early career colleagues on teaching-only contracts by including
 them in our mentoring (§2.2.2) and funding schemes (§3.2.4) to enable them to develop their
 research profiles and careers.

 2.1.3 Moving forward, we will use future hiring rounds to enhance our UoA’s methodological
 and thematic pluralism, while retaining our strong commitment to research excellence, diversity
 and equality. In line with our future strategy (§1.3), we will emphasise new and emerging
 thematic areas and the potential for new hires to develop or be integrated into larger impactful
 collaborative projects that address pressing political challenges.

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.2 Staff Development
 We support our early-career and mid-career researchers by combining institutionalised systems
 and programmes with mentoring and networking schemes that encourage staff to achieve their
 full potential.

 2.2.1 In line with SOAS policy, new staff who successfully pass the three-year probationary
 period are entitled to two terms paid research leave. All permanent staff on a Teaching and
 Research contract are eligible for one term of paid research-leave after every eight terms of
 teaching (IES§3.1), subject to satisfactory service and the articulation of a viable personal
 research plan. This policy enabled, on average, 4-5 staff to take research leave each year during
 the 2014-20 REF period.

 2.2.2 All staff on at least 0.4 FTE contracts undertake an annual Staff Development Review
 (SDR) meeting with the Head of Department to agree short- and long-term objectives and
 identify corresponding training needs and schemes provided at the School level (IES§3.1). In
 line with the School’s mentoring scheme (IES§3.1), new staff are allocated a mentor for the
 period of their probation. Having found that permanent staff benefit from a similar arrangement,
 we established the same practice for mid-career colleagues and organised workshops to share
 experiences on (i) drafting and administering grant applications, (ii) publishing and editing
 journals/book series, and (iii) knowledge-exchange activities.

 2.2.3 Knowledge-exchange and impact-related activities were encouraged through support for
 colleagues working on REF Impact Case Studies (IES§4.1; 3.2.6) and recognition within
 promotion criteria introduced in 2018. The UoA has also extended its networks of influence
 through secondments outside the University. Between 2017 and 2020, for instance, Vinjamuri
 was seconded (partially) to the Royal Institute of International Affairs (Chatham House) to serve
 as its Director of the US and the Americas programme and the inaugural Dean of the Queen
 Elizabeth II Academy, while maintaining substantive teaching and research links to the
 Department (§4.2.2).

 2.2.4 Our UoA has a successful record of staff promotions. Since 2014, four staff members on
 Teaching and Research contracts were promoted to Professor (Adib-Moghaddam, Clark,
 Hopgood, Nelson), three to Reader (Adamson, Rao, Vinjamuri) and nine to Senior Lecturer
 (Abou El-Fadl, Bajpai, Buehler, Eagleton-Pierce, Kotef, Nadarajah, Nisancioglu, Sabaratnam,
 and Surak).

 2.2.5 Going forward, our emphasis is on expanding staff access to research skills, professional
 development and impact training; institutionalising strategic personal research plans; and further
 strengthening mentoring and networking opportunities. In line with the broader SOAS strategy,
 we aim to equip our researchers with the skills to be effective interlocutors and influencers
 (IES§2).

 2.3 Doctoral researchers
 During the 2014-20 REF period, between 10 and 15 new doctoral students entered our PhD
 programme each year, and 83 successfully defended their dissertations. The composition of our
 cohort underlines our commitment to diversity and a global presence: the majority of our
 doctoral students were female, with a gradual shift towards parity from 57% (2014/15) to 52%
 (2019/20); an increasing majority hail from outside the UK, rising from 57% (2014/15) to 76%
 (2019/20); and the number of doctoral students with a BAME background also steadily increased
 from 45% (2014/15) to 52% (2019/20).

 2.3.1 Our doctoral students have been successful in securing funding to support their studies.
 During the 2014-20 REF period, 11 received internal funding through the highly competitive
 SOAS Research Scholarships providing tuition remission and a living stipend, and 21 received
 external funding, including nine highly competitive ESRC studentships. These students benefit
 from the UoA’s membership in the ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership alongside UCL,

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Birkbeck, the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and University of East London.
 Our doctoral students have also been successful in securing supplementary funding for
 knowledge-exchange partnerships with external non-academic bodies like the British Foreign
 Office (Chacko) and the British Library Endangered Archives Programme (Manful).

 2.3.2 Our doctoral students receive guidance from a lead and a second supervisor. They are
 supported by the Department Director of Doctoral Studies and the SOAS Doctoral School. Our
 PhD programme involves comprehensive doctoral training in Year 1, when students attend a
 two-term module on Research Design and Methodology (plus an optional one-term module on
 Quantitative Methods), and a weekly seminar organised by the Director of Doctoral Studies
 where they discuss and critique their projects. To progress, students submit a 10,000 word
 upgrade paper that is scrutinised by a three-member committee during an oral viva. The first
 year ends with a full-day annual conference where students present and discuss their projects
 in a public setting. The Department also organises post-fieldwork and writing-up workshops for
 doctoral researchers in their third and final years.

 2.3.3 We worked hard to integrate our PhD students into the UoA researcher environment.
 An annual series of five professional development panels enables doctoral students and
 permanent staff to share experience and advice on fieldwork, teaching, attending and presenting
 at conferences, publishing and applying for jobs. We encourage doctoral students to attend
 Politics research seminars and give them the opportunity to act as discussants to invited
 speakers.

 2.3.4 Our doctoral students play an important role in our research-led teaching (§1.2.3), acting
 as Graduate Teaching Assistants (GTAs). They receive support in their professional
 development through in-house training and institutional support for HEA Fellowship applications
 (IES§3.2).

 2.3.5 Doctoral researchers benefit from dedicated work space in the SOAS Doctoral School,
 which organises additional networking, methods training and language acquisition opportunities
 (IES§3.2). In addition, our students benefit from the broader interdisciplinary environment at
 SOAS, with access to events and networks at the regional centres and SOAS’ postgraduate
 exchange programme (IES§3.2).

 2.3.6 We face a constant challenge with PhD funding, particularly for the large number of
 excellent overseas students who apply to work with us. A key objective moving forward is to
 find creative ways of generating funding, including tying PhD positions into large research grant
 applications, and taking greater advantage of SOAS’ membership in the AHRC Chase
 Consortium and Bloomsbury College PhD Studentships (IES§3.2; 1.3).

 2.4 Post-Doctoral placements
 The UoA’s supportive setting for doctoral researchers, including our emphasis on original
 fieldwork, conference presentation, and integrating them in international research networks,
 generated some outstanding PhDs over the 2014-20 REF cycle. About a quarter of our
 graduates have embarked on successful academic careers, taking up lectureships and
 research positions in universities in the UK and across the world, including the University of
 Birmingham, Queen Mary University of London, the London School of Economics and Political
 Science, University of Cambridge, Lahore University of Management Sciences, the American
 University in Beirut, Korea University, Abu Dhabi University, Sabanci University, the American
 University of Sulaymaniyah, University of Freiburg, Sciences Po, Leiden, and the Leibniz
 Zentrum Moderner Orient in Berlin.

 Many of our PhDs have taken up positions in non-academic institutions, including the Crisis
 Management Initiative, the Open Society Foundation, the Open Society Foundation Scholarship
 Fund in The Netherlands, the Institute for Druze Studies in Haifa (Israel), the Institute for
 Security Studies in Dakar (Senegal), the Centre for Alternative Policy Research and Innovation
 in Freetown (Sierra Leone), the Centre for Policy Research in Delhi (India) and the Centre for

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 International Digital Policy at Global Affairs Canada. Other PhD graduates have gone on to work
 as foreign-policy officials in the UK, Sierra Leone, South Sudan, Nigeria, South Korea and
 Egypt.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1. Research income (strategy and achievements)
 During the 2014-20 REF period, SOAS significantly increased its institutional capacity for
 research income generation through the expansion of its research infrastructure and facilities
 (IES§4.1). The UoA has benefitted from this investment and also developed its own internal
 research income strategy and support systems. We supported staff to submit applications to the
 ERC, ESRC, AHRC, British Academy, Leverhulme and other major funding bodies by providing
 research leave in line with SOAS policy, holding grant information sessions and directing staff to
 grant-writing workshops, organising research away days, providing mentoring for grant
 applications, undertaking internal peer reviews, providing internal seed corn funds for the
 development of new projects, and ensuring that staff are aware of internal and external funding
 opportunities.

 3.1.1 UoA staff submitted 114 grant applications and won 27 grants, a success rate of 24%.
 The total value of our research awards for REF 2021 was £3,214,229, and research income
 over the last six years more than trebled from £793,853 to £2,420,992 (HESA returns). The
 UoA has been particularly successful in securing European Union funding, including Gallagher’s
 ERC grant Understanding Statehood Through Architecture (£1,514,709), Adamson’s EU H2020
 grant Migration Governance and Asylum Crises (£325,700), and Khalili’s History and Politics of
 Human Shielding (£139,348). In addition, the UoA hosted a large ESRC grant (Khalili, £633,870)
 and secured eight Leverhulme Fellowships (Adamson, Berenskoetter, Farquhar, Han, Khalili,
 Kotef, Rao, Surak) and five British Academy grants (Abou-El-Fadl, Chan, Clark, Tripp,
 Vinjamuri).

 3.1.2 The successful funding strategy has facilitated the growth of the Department’s internal
 research infrastructure, and allowed it to support an increasing number of externally funded
 Early Career and Postdoctoral Researchers (§2.1.2) attached to larger research projects
 (Mulugeta and Tomkinson in Gallagher’s ERC project; Ziadah in Khalili’s ESRC project; Dag in
 Adamson’s EU project), as well as supporting PhD students (Manful and Ncube in Gallagher’s
 project; Craven in Adamson’s project).

 3.1.3 The UoA has facilitated opportunities for staff to take up competitive external Visiting
 Fellowships at Princeton University’s Institute of Advanced Studies (Han and Surak in 2014-
 15); the European Institute of Global Studies at University of Basel (Adamson 2017); and the
 Princeton Institute for International and Regional Studies (Surak in 2018-19), as well as
 facilitating research funded by the Open Society Foundation (Dave in 2016-17); the British
 Library; British Council and John E. Fetzer Institute. Successful grant holders are supported with
 sustained research time away from teaching and administration responsibilities.

 3.2. Infrastructure
 3.2.1 The Head of Department of Politics and International Studies is responsible for the overall
 direction of the unit, including financial planning, coordination, staffing and research strategy.
 The Departmental Research Committee (DRC) coordinates and supports UoA research
 activities, organises research support events, approves internal funding applications and Visiting
 Scholar and Research Associate appointments, and evaluates and supports external funding
 applications (such as Leverhulme Early Career and UKRI FLF applications). The DRC is chaired
 by the Department Director of Research and includes the Head of Department, the Director of
 Doctoral Studies, the Politics Research Seminar Convenor, the Department Research Ethics
 Officer and two additional senior members of staff. The Director of Research oversees staff
 research support and is the main point of coordination with the School’s Research and
 Enterprise Office (REO) and the SOAS Research and Enterprise Committee (REC) (IES§4.1).

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 She has primary responsibility for supporting, facilitating and approving external funding
 applications. The Director of Doctoral Studies oversees PhD research, training and the
 progression and examination of Doctoral researchers. The Politics Research Seminar
 Convenor coordinates regular research seminars, with a mix of internal and external presenters
 and internal discussants.

 3.2.2 The UoA benefits strongly from the infrastructure of SOAS’ National Research Library,
 which is one of the world’s most important academic libraries for the study of Asia, Africa and the
 Middle East (IES§2.2). Politics staff have a dedicated subject librarian (shared with Law), who
 provides specialised support and assistance to staff members. In addition, all SOAS staff and
 students have membership in the University of London Senate House Library. Additionally,
 staff members benefit from the lively research environment and exceptional intellectual
 resources—seminar series, talks, collaboration opportunities—provided by the SOAS regional
 Institutes and subject-specific Centres (see IES§1; 1.1.)

 3.2.3 The SOAS Research Office advises and supports external funding applications,
 identifying opportunities and assisting with preparation, budgeting, internal review, research
 ethics compliance and submission. Politics has a dedicated Research Support Officer, shared
 with two other Departments, and works closely with the Research Development Officer on larger
 bids. External funding applicants receive research ethics training, from online training
 supported by institutional subscriptions (Epigeum), to in-person training and one-to-one
 mentoring and support (IES§4.1). External funding bids pass through an internal ethics review.
 Once awarded, grant-holders receive formal post-award support as well as membership of
 SOAS-wide large grant-holder and EU grant-holder networks.

 3.2.4 In addition to the annual research allowance (£1,000) for each full-time member of staff,
 the Politics Department provides competitive internal research funds (£15,000) to support
 individual and group research projects (field research, workshops and other activities); and
 dedicated funds (£9,000) to support the Centres’ research activities. It provides financial
 support for international research methods training and networking at the Institute for
 Qualitative and Multi-Method Research (IQMR) in Syracuse, New York. As a long-standing
 member of the IQMR Consortium, the Department sent 8 staff members (including fractional and
 fixed-term teaching staff and ECRs) and 13 PhD students during the 2014-20 REF period.

 3.2.5 The UoA has established funds to support manuscript workshops with external
 discussants. For example, in June 2019 the UoA sponsored a manuscript workshop for Kotef’s
 The Colonizing Self which led to significant revisions, including a new short chapter, a changed
 structure and a new conclusion. Internal funds also provided significant support for the initial
 underlying field research and data collection for books and articles by Adib-Moghaddam, Bajpai,
 Buehler, Clark, Rao and others. For example, Bajpai received departmental support for a two-
 week period of field research in Delhi and Hyderabad, India in December 2016 which was critical
 to the completion of a research article co-authored with an ECR in India. The UoA further
 provided targeted support for publication costs, editing and indexing, as well as marketing and
 dissemination activities for published books.

 3.2.6 Unit staff benefited from the SOAS Seed Corn Fund (IES§4.1), securing a total of £53,794
 over the 2014-20 REF period to support the development of large projects and external funding
 applications. For example, the fund supported the development of Adamson’s successful
 participation in the EU H2020 ‘Migration Governance and Asylum Crises’ 13-member
 consortium, funding research assistance and travel to coordinate grant-writing with partners in
 Europe, resulting in a €3,175,000 grant with a SOAS share of €400,000. Researchers in the UoA
 have benefited from SOAS’ Open Access publications fund and its UKRI Open Access Block
 Grant (IES§2), receiving over £15,000 in open-access fees, which enabled Gold Open Access
 for 14 journal articles—including from Early Career Researchers and PhD students (Craven,
 Lokot, Turner, Ziadah). The Department’s knowledge transfer and impact strategy received
 support from a range of SOAS internal funds (IES§4.1), including the Impact Case Study


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Enhancement Fund (Sabaratnam, £1,932), the Impact and Knowledge Exchange Fund (Clark,
 £5,970), and the Impact Acceleration Fund (Rao, £1,753 and Clark, £3,500).

 3.2.7 The UoA provides a supportive research environment for ensuring diversity and equality
 of access to research support. The UoA has supported the research trajectories of Early
 Career Researchers by making a portion of internal research funds available to staff on
 teaching-only contracts, fixed-term staff, and PhD students. Individual members of the UoA also
 place a strong emphasis on mentoring and supporting scholars from the Global South and/or
 scholars with a refugee background, leading to successful research trajectories. For example,
 Tas took up a fixed-term position at Princeton, and Dag secured an Independent Social
 Research Foundation (ISRF) grant in 2020.

 3.3 Facilities
 UoA staff were supported in their research with the space and facilities to engage in creative and
 collaborative research. Each UoA member has a private office, equipped with a computer and
 access to NVivo, SPSS and other software, as well as access to original archival collections,
 databases, reference works, electronic publications and a wealth of other resources through the
 SOAS and Senate House libraries (§3.2.2 above and IES§2.2). We were supported in the
 dissemination of our research findings through an online repository for publications (IES§2),
 website hosting facilities and SoundCloud and YouTube channels, as well as by the SOAS
 Communications Department’s social media accounts and blogs. We also had access to
 exhibition spaces, the Chouette Films and the animation company PositiveNegatives (both
 located on campus) (IES§1). Staff have actively contributed to, and been supported by, events
 such as the SOAS Festival of Ideas (IES§1).

 The UoA ensured continuity of research productivity during the COVID-19 crisis by
 enabling staff to purchase necessary hardware for remote working. This allowed research
 activities and support to move online, with the UoA organising a virtual grant and research
 income training session, an online writing group and virtual research seminars and PhD annual
 conference. This support led to a sharp rise in new grant applications from members of the
 UoA over this period (IES Covid-19 Annex).

 3.4 Future strategy
 Moving forward, we seek to build on our successful strategy for research income generation.
 Our focus will be on expanding the number of large UKRI and ERC grant applications so as
 to increase overheads to support the development of internal infrastructure (§1.3). We will
 incorporate grant-writing into a new SOAS-wide workload model and tie grant applications to
 personal research plans, internal research funds and leave. We are well-positioned to play an
 active role in SOAS’ new strategy on developing major funded research collaborations with
 partners in the Global South (IES§2). UoA members are also active in shaping SOAS’
 participation in the Open Society University Network (OSUN), a new global network which
 offers significant resources to support collaborations.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 UoA staff co-produced and disseminated research within a global network of universities,
 research institutes and thinktanks. Governmental agencies, NGOs, private foundations, and
 businesses have solicited our expertise in analysing and predicting policy and political
 challenges in Asia, Africa and the Middle East. International institutions such as the African
 Union, the International Criminal Court, United Nations agencies, the World Bank and the World
 Economic Forum consistently cite and engage with our work.

 4.1 Academic collaborations, networks, partnerships
 During the REF period the UoA has sought to establish an environment conducive to large
 research projects, creating a virtuous circle for future funding and enduring international
 networks that embody our commitment to decolonising knowledge and research (IES§2). UoA

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 members devoted particular attention to academic partnerships in the Global South (IES§2),
 emphasising high quality scholarship and promoting equitable relations between scholars
 through capacity building and knowledge exchange.

 Five examples illustrate the success of our strategy:

 4.1.1 Collaborations with Partners in Africa: the African State Architecture Project
 In 2018, Gallagher was awarded an ERC Consolidator Grant for an interdisciplinary study of the
 relationship between state-building and architecture. Drawing on extensive fieldwork, it focuses
 particularly on non-elite engagements with and perceptions of state buildings as a way to discern
 state-meaning. The project employs 2 postdoctoral fellows and 2 PhD students from Ethiopia,
 Ghana, the UK and Zimbabwe. The project has spurred fruitful research collaborations with
 partners at the Centre for African Studies, University of Ghana, the Department of Sociology,
 University of Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, the University of Johannesburg (where Gallagher is a
 Senior Research Fellow) and the Félix Houphouët-Boigny University in Côte d'Ivoire.
 Activities have included local ethical monitoring, fieldwork collaboration, a joint workshop and
 edited book, an exhibition designed and staged in collaboration with Johannesburg architectural
 studio Counterspace, and four co-authoring projects.

 4.1.2 Transnationalism, Gender and Justice in the Middle East and Europe
 The UoA’s ECR Tas was mentored by Al-Ali (Centre for Gender Studies) towards several co-
 authored publications and a successful submission to the EU’s Horizon 2020 research and
 innovation programme in 2017. This resulted in a successful Marie Sklodowska-Curie Global
 Fellowship, jointly held by SOAS, Syracuse University in New York, USA, and the Max Planck
 Institute for Social Anthropology in Halle, Germany. Tas spent his three year-fellowship
 between the three institutions, creating new research links between them, but also with NGOs
 and Kurdish diaspora groups. Tas also performed a mentoring role to members of Adamson’s
 EU migration project (§4.1.3), supporting the project’s work on Kurdish refugee communities in
 Europe and creating synergies that enhanced the impact of both projects.

 4.1.3 Migration Governance and Asylum in Europe
 The UoA is part of an EU H2020 large grant consortium of 13 universities and NGOs across
 Europe, Turkey and Lebanon who are collaboratively tackling the challenges of migration
 governance. The SOAS team, headed by Adamson, collaborates directly with Sabancı
 University in Turkey, and closely with other consortia members, partnering with local
 community organisations in ways that bring refugee experiences and voices into policy
 deliverables for the European Commission. The project is supported by the Migration,
 Mobility and Membership (MMM) research cluster, which serves as a hub for the unit’s
 migration-related research, and is closely networked with the SOAS Centre for Migration and
 Diaspora Studies (CMDS) and the London Migration Research Group (LMRG) (co-convened
 by Adamson and Eiko Thielemann, LSE). The LMRG organised over 30 seminars, panels and
 other events in the 2014-20 REF period, and the MMM cluster organised four international
 workshops as well as panels at international conferences. The workshops, supported largely by
 UoA funding, helped generate an international research network of scholars from SOAS,
 Johns Hopkins University, Southern Methodist University, the University of California, Irvine and
 Sciences Po.

 4.1.4 Departmental research centres
 The Department’s research centres drove several fruitful partnerships and collaborations. The
 Centre for Comparative Political Thought (CCPT), currently under direction of Kotef, was
 created in 2013 in partnership with Prof Michael Freeden at Oxford, now Nottingham, and has
 maintained strong ties with his research team. Freeden became a Professorial Research
 Associate in the Department in 2015. In addition to hosting external speakers, CCPT hosted
 annual workshops on Space, Democracy and Power (2014), Thinking Through Time Politically
 (2015), Travelling Theory/Theorists (2016), Conceptual Itineraries (2017), The Intimacies of Four
 Continents (2018), and Empire by its Other Names (2019). Various events were held in
 collaboration with the Centre for the Study of Political Ideologies at the University of

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Nottingham, the Heyman Center for the Humanities and the Society of Fellows at Columbia
 University, and the London Comparative Political Thought Group, co-founded by UoA
 member Bajpai, which maintains an active programme of research seminars with like-minded
 political theory scholars at LSE (Jenco) and KCL (Iqtidar).

 4.1.5 Our Centre on Conflict, Rights and Justice (CCRJ) served as a hub from 2014-16 for a
 major project on the future of human rights in collaboration with Columbia University. The
 centre hosted scholars from the Universities of Harvard, Yale, Pennsylvania, Connecticut, and
 Queensland, as well as the European University Institute, discussing problems of human rights
 advocacy, the backlash against human rights across Africa and the Middle East, and the
 sidelining of development and economic rights. These led to the publication of Human Rights
 Futures (Cambridge University Press, 2017) co-edited by CCRJ co-directors Vinjamuri and
 Hopgood alongside Jack Snyder (Columbia). In 2018 CCRJ hosted an international book launch
 at SOAS with contributors from Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch and
 convened an off-the-record workshop, in collaboration with the European Council on Foreign
 Relations, with leading Human Rights funders to discuss the trade-offs between long-term
 impact and short-term engagement. Between 2014 and 2017, CCRJ hosted on average ten
 public lectures per year featuring speakers from Harvard, Chicago, Princeton, Stanford, Cornell
 and Georgetown. The CCRJ founded and hosted the London Transitional Justice Network in
 collaboration with the LSE and KCL, creating a globally-linked network of scholars, researchers
 and advocates. Since 2018, the new CCRJ co-directors Clark and Nadarajah have shifted the
 Centre’s focus towards transitional justice and peace-building projects in the Global South,
 holding public speaker events, book launches, regular alumni talks and workshops with NGOs.
 They added a strong student-led component, including the Reimagining Peace + Justice blog
 run by CRJ postgraduate students and supported by the Centre through training on blog writing
 and editing.

 4.1.6 Moving forward, we seek to expand our research collaborations into new thematic areas,
 building new large-scale funded collaborations on an equitable basis with partners in the Global
 South, and investing in new thematic centres that act as hubs for research and impact
 collaborations (§1.3; IES§2).

 4.2 Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries and audiences outside academia
 The UoA’s engagement and associated impact with actors in government, private sector and
 civil society goes well beyond what is covered in our three Impact Case Studies. In April 2020,
 The Higher Education University Impact Rankings ranked SOAS first in the UK and joint fifth
 in the world for advancing the UN Sustainable Development Goal ‘Peace, Justice and Strong
 Institutions’, with the research of several UoA staff members (Chan, Clark, Sabaratnam)
 highlighted in SOAS’s submission.

 4.2.1 UoA staff provided training and advice to policy practitioners at the highest levels,
 offering governmental and non-governmental actors a deeper understanding of the international,
 regional, and country-specific political contexts within which they operate. Our knowledge-
 exchange activities typically involve briefing ambassadors, senior policymakers and UN agency
 officials and providing analyses for institutions, including the British parliament and government
 bodies in the UK and abroad, as well as international organisations. Buehler, Chan, Clark,
 Kobayashi, Nelson and Vinjamuri all maintained substantial links with the Foreign and
 Commonwealth Office (FCO). Gallagher, Nadarajah and Vinjamuri provided written and oral
 evidence for British parliamentary committees, as well as to the Labour Party's Shadow
 Integrated Review Process. Vinjamuri spoke at the European Parliament's Research Service,
 led the team delivering annual training to FCO staff working on the US, and participated in
 briefings to the US National Intelligence Council. Chan regularly briefed Australian, UK and US
 ambassadors on political developments in Zimbabwe; he also liaised between government,
 opposition and thinktank figures in Zimbabwe during the critical transition period from President
 Mugabe to President Mnangagwa.



                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.2.2 The UoA engaged with thinktanks and policy-oriented research entities as part of its
 dissemination strategy. For example, we established a close relationship with Chatham House
 through the partial secondment of Vinjamuri as the Director of the US and Americas Programme.
 Facilitated by Vinjamuri, Chatham House has hosted UoA members to discuss their research
 impact and highlighted the research of SOAS scholars. UoA staff have delivered talks (Buehler,
 Sabaratnam, Surak, Vinjamuri), participated in events and written for the Chatham House blog
 (Adamson, Nelson, Vinjamuri).

 4.2.3 We engaged in consultancy work for corporations like Mitsubishi (explaining political
 trends in South Asia and the Middle East; Nelson) and NGOs like Sexual Minorities Uganda
 (Rao) and the Japan Foundation and the Daiwa Foundation (Surak). In 2020, Adib-Moghaddam
 and Buehler contributed to a report for a strategic planning group within the World Bank to help
 its post-conflict reconstruction efforts in the Middle East. We supported the UK Independent
 Advisory Group on Country Information and the European Union Asylum Support Office (Nelson)
 and the Crown Prosecution Service (Saez), as well as the work of the UN via UNICEF (Bajpai,
 Nadarajah, Nelson, Paliwal, Saez) and the UN Alliance of Civilisations on labour migration and
 urbanisation (Surak). Adamson’s work on migration diplomacy has been used by the World
 Health Organisation, the Swedish Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the European Council on
 Foreign Relations.

 4.2.4 The UoA pursued a media strategy aimed at shaping narratives on political and social
 issues pertaining to the Global South through engaging with a broad range of broadcast,
 print and social media. For example, Chan has appeared as a commentator on Al Jazeera and
 the BBC and is regularly cited in British, European, Asian and African newspapers, including in
 frontpage headlines in Zimbabwean newspapers. Vinjamuri regularly gave interviews on US
 politics to BBC News, CNN, World News, Bloomberg TV, BBC World Service, Radio 4, Sky
 News, Radio 5 Live and Times Radio. Rao spoke on statues and historical memory on the
 Bangalore International Centre podcast, BBC Radio 4’s Today programme and BBC Viewsnight
 and Newsnight. Bonura, Buehler and Clark were regular guests on Monocle24 radio, sharing
 their expertise and insights on political dynamics in Africa and Southeast Asia on The Daily
 Briefing and The Globalist over 100 times. UoA staff published opinion pieces in newspapers
 with a wide circulation, including the Financial Times, Guardian, Independent, Telegraph, Los
 Angeles Times, and Yedioth Ahronoth, as well as CNN and Al-Jazeera.

 4.2.5 UoA members are individually active on social media, regularly contributing to blogs and
 public debates. Rao, Nisancioglu and Sabaratnam are members of the Disorder of Things
 collective; Khalili established a blog (thegamming.org) to document and comment on her
 research. Some members of the UoA have active lives as poets, artists and have large social
 media followings (e.g. Ziadah). UoA members also write for disciplinary blogs such as Duck of
 Minerva and Political Violence at a Glance.

 4.2.6 Our strategy in the next several years is to further embed impact and knowledge
 exchange to increase our policy impact and develop our skills to promote and disseminate
 our research findings to diverse audiences and publics (§1.3; IES§2).

 4.3 Contributions to the sustainability of the discipline
 The UoA is recognised internationally as a leader of research on politics in international relations
 (ranked #5 in the UK and #18 in the world, QS World University Rankings 2020). Over the 2014-
 20 REF period we have been at the forefront of critical debates, including the decolonising
 agenda, engagements with political thought from the Global South, and the exploration of
 relationships between the global and the local. Our leading role in these and other debates is
 reflected in our broader contributions both within the academy and beyond.

 4.3.1 In collaboration with academics in the Global South, North America and Europe, UoA
 members launched and co-edited three new book series: The Global Middle East, Cambridge
 University Press (Adib-Moghaddam, 14 books since 2016), Colonial Questions and International
 Relations, Rowman & Littlefield (Sabaratnam, nine books since 2014), and Bristol Studies in

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 International Theory, Bristol University Press (Berenskötter, two books in 2020). From 2014-19,
 Berenskötter was part of the founding editorial team of the new ISA Journal of Global Security
 Studies (Oxford University Press). He contributed to formulating and implementing the journal’s
 mission and was responsible for 196 manuscripts from submission to decision, including a forum
 (‘Censorship in Security Studies’) and a special issue (‘Norms under Challenge’). He helped
 establish the journal’s pre-submission exchange scheme that supports scholars from
 disadvantaged positions in the Global South. Since 2016, Rao has served as a member of the
 editorial collective of Radical Philosophy. In 2020, El-Kazaz joined the Arab Studies Journal as a
 book review editor. Vinjamuri serves on the editorial board of the Cambridge Series in
 International Relations.

 4.3.2 UoA members also served on editorial boards of 15 journals, including European Journal
 of International Relations, American Political Science Review, Ethnopolitics, and Third World
 Quarterly; they contributed hundreds of peer-reviews for a wide range of academic journals,
 national funding bodies (such as the ESRC (UK), NSF (US), SSHRC (Canada), ISF (Israel),
 ASF (Austria), NWO (Netherlands) and panel judges for prizes, including the Susan Strange
 Book Prize of the British International Studies Association and the Queen's Anniversary Prize for
 Higher and Further Education.

 4.3.3 UoA members serve on numerous scientific advisory boards including the Scientific
 Advisory Board of the EuropaInstitut, University of Basel (Adamson), the National Research
 Review of Political Science in the Netherland (Adamson), the LSE IDEAS Advisory Board
 (Vinjamuri), the LSE US Centre Advisory Board (Vinjamuri), the Marshall Commissioner (FCO
 appointment board for Marshall Scholars) (Vinjamuri).

 4.3.4 During the 2014-20 REF cycle, UoA members held leading positions in a range of
 international professional associations. Many staff are active in the British International
 Studies Association (BISA): from 2013-17 Sabaratnam was co-founder and co-convenor of the
 Colonial/Postcolonial/Decolonial Working Group, establishing annual workshops, conference
 panels, early career mentoring opportunities and networking events. Nisancioglu succeeded her
 in 2016, co-organising three annual workshops, two annual mentoring programmes, and two
 streams at BISA’s annual conference. It has become the largest BISA Working Group. From
 2016-20, Berenskötter co-convened and revived the Interpretivism in International Relations
 Working Group, doubling its membership, securing £12,000 in funding to (co)organise five
 international workshops aimed at ECRs and organising BISA Conference panels in 2018 and
 2019.

 We played significant roles in the International Studies Association (ISA): from 2014-16
 Adamson served as an elected member of the International Security Studies Section (ISSS)
 section, including its best book award committee (2015) and distinguished scholar committee
 (2014). From 2016-19, Sabaratnam served as chair, deputy chair, and newsletter editor of the
 Global Development Section. From 2019-20 Rao served as the chair of the Lesbian, Gay,
 Bisexual, Transgender, Queer and Allies (LGBTQA) Caucus. Vinjamuri was appointed to the ISA
 Nominating Committee for a three-year term from March 2020.

 UoA members are active in the European International Studies Association (EISA): since
 2019, Berenskötter has served as an elected member of the EISA Governing Board, which is
 responsible for the strategy and operation of the association. He was responsible for organising
 and chairing the association’s dissertation and publication prizes and awards, and liaising with
 related professional associations and observing the development of the discipline.

 Additionally, we hold leadership roles in the American Political Science Association (APSA):
 from 2016-19 Adamson has served as an elected member of the Governing Council of APSA’s
 Migration and Citizenship and International History and Politics sections (2015-17) and served
 on their best paper (2016) and outstanding article (2017) prize committees. Nelson was an
 Invited Member of the APSA-Carnegie Corporation MENA Workshop Steering Committee, 2017-
 2021; and was an Elected Member for the Religion and Politics Executive Committee, 2014-16.

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 He served as a Chair for the Ken Wald Prize 2016-17. From 2015-18 Abou-El-Fadl served as
 Trustee for the Council for British Research in the Levant, participating in evaluating funding
 applications and recruitment for the organisation.

 4.4 Indicators of influence, contributions and recognition in academia
 4.4.1 UoA staff are regularly invited to visiting scholar positions and honorary
 appointments. In 2015, Chan was the Konrad Adenauer Stiftung Visiting Chair of Academic
 Excellence at Bir Zeit University, Palestine; in 2016 Chan was the George Soros Chair at the
 Central European University, Budapest, and in 2020 he was appointed Extraordinary Professor
 at the University of Stellenbosch. Since 2018 Adib-Moghaddam has been an Honorary Fellow at
 Hughes Hall, University of Cambridge; in 2020, Adib-Moghaddam was appointed an Associate
 Scholar at Harvard’s Weatherhead Centre for International Affairs and a Distinguished Honorary
 Professor at the Yunnan Academy of Social Sciences, China. In 2020, Adamson was appointed
 a Distinguished Fellow at the Munk School of Global Affairs at the University of Toronto.

 4.4.2 UoA staff delivered more than 100 keynote addresses and invited talks, in the UK and
 internationally, in the 2014-20 REF period. Highlights include Adamson’s keynote addresses on
 migration politics at the Centre for Poverty Analysis (CEPA) in Colombo, Sri Lanka (2019),
 opening the 2019 Migration Conference (600+ participants) in Bari, Italy, and the 2016 Centre
 for Migration Studies conference on Reframing the Global Protection System in New York, USA
 (120+ participants + livestreamed); and Rao’s keynotes on ‘What Do We Mean When We Talk
 About Statues?’ at Balliol College, Oxford (2019), and the 10th Africa Day Memorial Lecture,
 University of the Free State, Bloemfontein, South Africa (2018).

 4.4.3 The excellence of our research was recognised by numerous awards and prizes. This
 included book awards, with three first prizes for Surak (ASA Asia and Asian America Section,
 2014), Nisancioglu and Avienas (ISA International Political Sociology Section, 2017),
 Sabaratnam (ISA Global Development Section, 2019); and four honourable mentions for
 Gallagher (ISA International Political Sociology 2018), Sabaratnam (ISA Theory Section, 2019),
 Clark (Raphael Lemkin Book Award, 2020) and Ismail (Raphael Lemkin Book Award, 2020). In
 2015, Eagleton-Pierce was awarded best article by an early career researcher by Critical Policy
 Studies, and Rao was awarded a scholar award by the ISA’s LGBTQA Caucus in 2016.

 Our doctoral researchers were recognised in six best dissertation awards: Gerasimos
 Tsourapas (APSA’s Migration and Citizenship Section, 2016), James Eastwood (Middle East
 Studies Association and British International Studies Association, both 2016); Hila Amit
 (European Consortium for Political Research, 2017), Akanksha Mehta (European International
 Studies Association, 2018), Veronica Ferreri (British Society for Middle Eastern Studies, 2019),
 with honourable mentions for Eastwood (British Society of Middle East Studies, 2017) and
 Lewis Turner (British Society for Middle Eastern Studies, 2019). In 2018, former doctoral student
 Merve Kutuk-Kuriş won the Şirin Tekeli Research Award at Sabancı University for supporting
 gender-focused research in Turkey.




                                                                                           Page 16
