Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of the West of Scotland
 Unit of Assessment: 20: Social Work and Social Policy
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Structure of research
 Within the School of Education and Social Sciences the vibrancy of research is maintained by the
 Centre for Social Sciences and Culture (CSSC) and governed through the ‘Research Governance
 Group’ which brings together a range of academics from the different research leadership and
 supporting roles, including Divisional Research Leads, REF Unit of Assessment (UOA) Leads,
 Research Ethics Leads, Research Mentoring Leads, Postgraduate Research Student Leads,
 Heads of Division and Readers/Professors. This arrangement has fostered a collegiate and sup-
 portive environment. As such, our equality and diversity strategy is embedded through the working
 of the Group and its role as a reporting forum. The Group is chaired by a senior academic and co-
 chaired by two ECRs. The Group has oversight over, and monitors, the School’s research strat-
 egy, income, infrastructure and facilities.

 1.2 Research Objectives
 Since REF2014 our research objectives have been for UWS to be a social science leader in Scot-
 land, the UK, and internationally for addressing social and public policy concerns, as well as gov-
 ernance issues. The five UOA20 REF2021 impact case studies demonstrate our commitment to
 work with frontline organisations and the end-users of policies, programmes and services. Such
 work with key stakeholder groups ensures ‘better governance’ and helps staff to contribute, in a
 strategic manner, to policy debates that foster changes that benefit wider society.

 In particular, the research objectives since 2014 have been as follows:

       To enhance the links between social science researchers and external bodies and policy-
        makers.
       To ensure that we serve our communities through social inclusion, inequalities and pov-
        erty-focused research.
       To guarantee that staff undertake equalities training to embed equality and inclusiveness
        into our research culture.
       To make certain that, in line with university priorities, social science research is based on
        a concern for addressing health, society and sustainability.
       To safeguard that social science research addresses concerns for social justice and dis-
        crimination - both in terms of social policy research and in terms of criminal justice.
       To work collaboratively with other Schools in the university to increase our research bid
        applications to external funders and attract international and interdisciplinary PhD stu-
        dents.
       To increase investment in School research infrastructure and mentoring activities to sup-
        port both the career prospects of staff and to enhance the student experience.
       To consolidate and increase our postgraduate research (PGR) completion rates and the
        development of a research underpinned Masters’ degree offer.

 1.2.1 Review of REF2014
 The School of Education and Social Sciences is home to a rapidly growing and highly interdisci-
 plinary UOA in Social Work and Social Policy. To illustrate this, we have almost tripled the in-
 clusion of staff in REF 2021 compared to REF2014.

 In the summer of 2014, the faculties at UWS changed and the School of Media, Culture, and
 Society was established as a separate structure, bringing together the Schools which had respec-
 tively been engaging with the social sciences and the creative and cultural industries. This lasted
 until the summer of 2019 when it was strategically detached, with social science (UOA20) col-
 leagues merging with the School of Education (UOA23) to become the new School of Education
 and Social Sciences. This new School is comprised of three Divisions - Education; Psychology
 and Social Work; and Social Sciences – and a key focus is on ensuring research is promoted and


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 managed across these staff groupings to maximise expertise and foster collaboration and inter-
 disciplinarity. The transition has also provided further opportunities for both continuity and new
 collaborations to emerge. PGR oversight by PGR academic leads, in terms of researcher mentor-
 ing and development, is an example of promoting interdisciplinary opportunities for a lively and
 expanding postgraduate research community.

 The creation of the new School of Education and Social Sciences in August 2019 brought together
 an academic staff group of more than 120 colleagues, most of whom are active researchers. So-
 cial science research within the School has made major and innovative contributions to making
 society fairer and more progressive. Our strategy since REF2014, which is also key to our post-
 REF2021 strategy, is to continue to undertake useful and high-quality research of national and
 international quality. The strategy also serves to enable policy impacts that contribute to the com-
 munities we serve and to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs).

 The 2014 research environment statement was aligned to UWS’ Research and Knowledge Ex-
 change Strategy with the intention of expanding research led teaching and learning, taught Mas-
 ters’ programmes and the expansion of the postgraduate research community. To further build the
 School’s research culture, we have seen considerable work to develop and offer postgraduate
 programmes in areas of interdisciplinary research excellence and to strengthen support for post-
 graduate students in the development of their employability skills base.

 Since REF2014 staff continue to be encouraged to continue enhancing interdisciplinary research
 and the inclusion of social scientists from UOA20 has led to a number of major grant successes
 tackling complex problems, including with colleagues from health, engineering, and the natural
 sciences (see section 1.4)

 1.2.2 Current REF period
 The transition of the university’s overall research strategy towards purposeful research aligned
 with the UN SDGs provides a helpful and supportive context for the School continuing the trajec-
 tory towards interdisciplinary social science research with a local, national and global perspective.
 Our social policy research brings together academic colleagues in the School of Education and
 Social Sciences (including academics in the Division of Social Sciences, Division of Education
 and Division of Psychology). Colleagues also collaborate with other Schools, such as the School
 of Health and Life Sciences and the School of Business and Creative Industries. Through the
 Professoriate, the Staff forum for research, sign posting and open meetings to foster collaboration
 on large bids, these intellectual connections are encouraged, motivated by a ‘whole solution’ ap-
 proach to contemporary social issues and challenges. The whole solution approach extends to
 external partnerships and is exemplified through the collective work on poverty reduction and cam-
 paigning social justice of the cross-disciplinary teams of researchers and advocates in UWS-
 Oxfam Partnership, established in 2011 to work together for a fairer, more equitable, Scotland.

 Our main research entity for driving forward research excellence since 2014 has been the Centre
 for Social Sciences and Culture (CSSC), which brings together researchers to offer interdiscipli-
 nary insights into contemporary social challenges. The CSSC has been an inclusive entity for
 supporting research development, especially regarding early career researchers, as well as fos-
 tering research links across the wider university and external partnerships.

 We have built research partnerships across the globe and these connections are based on shared
 interests and ideas about how to tackle contemporary social issues. In turn, we infuse our teaching
 at undergraduate and postgraduate levels with this research-led activity and it influences and
 shapes our public engagement commitments. Colleagues in social sciences give their time and
 expertise willingly, usually in a consultancy or voluntary manner, to advise bodies at multiple levels
 including local authorities, national government agencies and international organisations such as
 the World Bank, various EU institutions, NGOs, charities, and think-tanks. They are active in re-
 viewing research proposals, via UK funding bodies and internationally and they contribute signifi-
 cantly to the wider research community. Several colleagues act as editors of well-known journals
 or sit on editorial boards of respected journals (see section 4.4). The School was successful in

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2016 in securing a contract for partnership working with the UK Parliament in the areas of Brexit
 and antimicrobial resistance.

 Cross-School research seminar series are a feature of how we promote research, both internally
 and externally to the university, and this has helped colleagues at all career stages (including
 doctoral students) prepare for academic conferences and draft publications. Researchers are also
 encouraged to get involved in our research partnerships, e.g., the UWS-Oxfam Partnership has
 been a key anchor for bringing colleagues together to undertake collaborative research projects
 such as ‘Decent Work’, ‘Austerity and Health’, ‘Food Insecurity and the COVID-19 Pandemic’ (to
 name just a few).

 Since REF2014, research support has been provided to colleagues working in partnership with
 external agencies via pump priming in preparation of external research council and charitable
 applications. Colleagues and external partners (e.g., other charities, community organisations,
 civil servants and the general public) come together at topic-based Policy Forums where there is
 dialogue and deliberation on addressing social problems. This activity provides fertile ground for
 new impact-focused projects to emerge. Indeed, this has been a core feature of the UWS-Oxfam
 partnership since its inception in 2011.

 Our research-led postgraduate offer has also developed significantly in recent years, with the in-
 troduction of highly successful MSc programmes in Applied Social Sciences, MSc Policy Analysis
 and Global Governance, and MSc conversion degrees in Social Work and Psychology (the latter
 of which is approved by the British Psychological Society). McKechnie is Deputy Chair of the
 British Psychological Society’s Undergraduate Education Committee. In 2014 a research-under-
 pinned MSc suite of programmes launched in the areas of Public Policy, Social Policy and Criminal
 Justice where the School has particular strengths. We have seen a more than three-fold increase
 in student numbers since the inception of the suite. Furthermore, this has established a strong
 platform for MSc students to continue to PhD study at UWS and other institutions. Research and
 other transferable skills are nurtured through a research-enhanced curriculum. This includes high-
 impact collaborative projects with a range of external partners that students can complete as part
 of their final dissertation. Examples of collaborative projects completed to date include an evalua-
 tion of ‘stop and search’ for Police Scotland (2019) and an examination of unpaid care for Oxfam
 Scotland (2018). ‘PGR Connections’ was also introduced in 2020 to create a forum for shared
 learning on research between MSc and PGR students. This has supported the integration of PGRs
 into the School’s broader academic activity and researcher skills development for both MSc and
 PGR students.

 1.2.3 Strategy: Next Five Years
 We have built on the success of the social sciences division to generate a number of key priorities
 for the next research assessment period. We seek to:

       Strengthen our research culture and capacity to respond quickly to addressing social and
        wider policy problems in the context of post-COVID 19 recovery and governance reforms
        post-Brexit.
       Challenge exclusion, disadvantage and discrimination along class, gender and racial lines,
        through our research work and wider civic engagement through partnerships with leading
        organisations (e.g. the Scottish Human Rights Commission and the Coalition for Racial
        Equality and Rights).
       Develop, recruit, mentor and retain academic staff of the highest calibre and foster an open
        and inclusive research culture.
       Establish world-wide research partnerships of high repute and strengthen the social sci-
        ence community in the UK and internationally in order to address socio-economic inequal-
        ities.
       Continue to secure local, national and international impact for our research across the
        academic community and with public policymakers, practitioners and users in public ser-
        vices, civil society bodies, and the media.


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Enhance our postgraduate research culture, which has developed significantly since 2014,
        to ensure that our graduates have the research skills that they need, to not only think crit-
        ically, but to contribute to meaningfully supporting policy and wider communities.
       Build on the progress made to recruit high-calibre international PhD students.
       Given notable post-2014 successes in funding and knowledge exchange work, we will de-
        velop new ways of organising research groupings in light of the 2030 agenda for Global
        Goals and how we can best address the social issues that the agenda underlines.
       Continue to develop our undergraduate and Masters’ offer which reflects our capacity and
        expertise to undertake international interdisciplinary research.

 1.3 Achievement of impact
 A significant amount of research impact has been accumulated across the social sciences since
 REF2014. The five impact case studies we have submitted demonstrate the breadth and depth of
 impact across the social science disciplines (ranging from research concerning migrants and ref-
 ugees, to young people and the criminal justice system). It is also important to note that several
 colleagues in the School of Education and Social Sciences have contributed to team-based impact
 case studies across the university. The types of impact from UOA20 generally, but not exclusively,
 have been shown in terms of contributing research to reducing inequalities, understanding the
 lived experiences of vulnerable people and communities, parliamentary and governmental re-
 forms, and improving the welfare and wellbeing of citizens. The submitted impact case studies
 exhibit these impact areas in further detail.

 1.3.1 Impact Case Studies and Impact Approach
 Our impact case study (ICS) strategy has been to ensure that each ICS showcases how UWS
 researchers, as far as possible and appropriate, adopt a co-creative approach to knowledge ex-
 change with external bodies and policymakers. Each impact case study demonstrates such an
 approach on the basis of sustaining trusted and long-term relationships with stakeholders to en-
 hance our research networks but also to benefit our students. For example:

       The UWS-Oxfam Partnership impact case study is intrinsically co-created and partner-
        ship-based. The ICS shows how external bodies such as NHS Health Scotland, Glasgow
        Social Work Services and the Scottish Community Development Centre play an active role
        in this work on social justice and poverty reduction and benefit from its rewards.
       The policy and parliamentary capacity building through the co-creation of
        knowledge exchange and planning tools at EU, UK and devolved levels case study
        demonstrates partnership working in research and knowledge exchange between, for ex-
        ample, the European Commission, Scottish Parliament, Westminster Parliament, Welsh
        Parliament (Senedd), Police Scotland, Education Scotland, NHS Health Scotland, and
        Healthcare Improvement Scotland.
       The transforming understanding of drug-related harms case study involves collabora-
        tive working with Scotland’s Futures Forum and sustained engagement with the Scottish
        Parliament Cross Party Group on Alcohol and Drugs and the Scottish Drugs Forum.
       The supporting young people and young adults to make positive life choices to
        avoid or move away from anti-social, violent, criminal behaviour and addiction case
        study includes joint working between organisations such as HM Prison and Probation Ser-
        vice, the International Association for Human Values, and the Scottish Institute for Policing
        Research.
       The enabling migrant and refugee integration via research, policy and practice case
        study demonstrates that UWS researchers have undertaken in-depth and partnership-
        based work with bodies such as UNICEF, the Scottish Human Rights Commission, the
        Coalition for Racial Equality and Rights and the Glasgow-based NGO Romano Lav (Roma
        Voice).

 Such a range of activities demonstrates our impact approach to work with stakeholders to foster
 research networks, collaborations and outcomes of mutual interest based on a commitment to the
 fairness and good governance of society. Impact case study authors have also implemented an


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 inclusive team-based approach to staff inclusion (both in terms of gender balance and in terms of
 career stage). Connolly, Arnott and Clark have managed this impact approach carefully in order
 to support colleagues to collate evidence and report on their impact within the thematic case stud-
 ies since REF2014. For example, staff were supported to apply for the Research Crucible forum
 to further facilitate staff impact activities and develop research leadership skills.

 1.4 Interdisciplinary Research
 Our research strategy has been to grow an interdisciplinary research community which makes
 major contributions to tackling societal problems in Scotland, the UK and internationally. We
 achieve this through inclusive and progressive research and knowledge exchange activities
 across three interdisciplinary priority themes in the Division of Social Sciences: 1) Society, 2)
 Policy/Governance, and 3) Justice. The key research themes are all led by senior Professors,
 with other staff, including ECRs and PGRs, fully engaged in the decision-making processes, and
 this involves organising our research agendas as well as mentoring colleagues into future leader-
 ship roles.

 The Society theme is led by Clark and Collins (up until he left UWS in 2019); the Policy/Gov-
 ernance theme is led by Connolly and Arnott; and the Justice theme is led by Deuchar. Below
 we detail the main post-REF2014 priority themes for UOA20.

 Priority interdisciplinary theme 1: Society (links with the Society and Health University
 themes)

 This priority theme is broad in focus but is represented by our research and knowledge exchange
 strengths in social policy and addressing social and health inequalities. The key areas include:

 UWS-Oxfam Partnership: A More Sustainable and Equitable Scotland
 Before REF2014 research collaboration between UWS and Oxfam Scotland laid the founda-
 tions of the UWS-Oxfam Partnership to work towards a ‘more equitable and sustainable Scot-
 land’. The partnership aims to achieve impact in terms of providing Oxfam with evidence-based
 findings in relation to the implementation of community and equalities issues in Scotland. Since
 its launch the Partnership has brought together the academic expertise from UWS, the social jus-
 tice and anti-poverty advocacy strengths of Oxfam Scotland, and a wide range of civil society
 organisations linked to Oxfam’s UK Poverty Programme in Scotland. Under the umbrella of the
 Partnership, the impact of public policies on equality, sustainability and poverty in Scotland have
 been critically examined. The overarching aim of the Partnership’s diverse activities has been to
 inform the public debate about the future of Scotland. The Partnership’s agenda is led by its Policy
 Forum (facilitated by UWS social scientists) which regularly invites stakeholders to discuss and
 challenge existing ideas and policies. These discussions also feed into Oxfam Scotland’s work.

 Migrant and Refugee Research
 Since 2014, migrant and refugee research activity has developed significantly in the School. This
 theme is a key sociological and social work research strength of the unit of assessment involving
 Clark, Sidva, Pietka-Nykaza, Atkinson and Gilligan. Pietka-Nykaza’s research addresses
 Polish migrant trajectories and settlement patterns in Scotland and accompanying questions
 of citizenship and integration, with a focus on education and employment sectors. The lived reali-
 ties of HIV positive forced migrants from Africa who are living in Scotland with multiple disad-
 vantages is led by Sidva. Clark’s research, writing and activism focuses on working with Roma
 communities from central and Eastern Europe, examining their experiences of everyday racism,
 socio-economic in/exclusion and integration in the UK. Clark also focuses on indigenous
 Gypsy/Traveller communities in the UK, and he sits on the research advisory committees for a
 number of external NGO organisations on such matters (e.g., the Traveller Movement, the Advi-
 sory Council for the Education of Romanies and other Travellers and the Scottish Human Rights
 Commission). Through his research work and long-term activism, he is a Trustee of the NGO
 Romano Lav (Roma Voice) and a Director of the third-sector organisation the Coalition for Racial
 Equality and Rights. Taken together, these strands of academic work have produced high-quality
 and high-impact outputs which helps to inform multiple stakeholders about population mobility,

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and settlement across the UK, in particular Scotland and England, and documents differing mi-
 grant and refugee experiences of social exclusion and integration.

 Addictive Behaviours and Health
 UWS social psychologists (e.g., teams led by Parke) and researchers in Alcohol and Drugs stud-
 ies (e.g., O’Gorman, Harkins and McPhee) have made major contributions to understanding
 health behaviours, harms and inequalities. Academics in psychology have made important contri-
 butions to explain the psychological factors underlying a range of addictive behaviours and the
 negative impact of these including the following: gambling, cannabis use, social media addiction
 and obesity. Parke has worked closely with the national gambling regulatory body, the Gambling
 Commission, helping to shape responsible gambling policy guidelines and restrictions. Ongoing
 research into problem gambling in online settings, commissioned by the Gambling Commission,
 in partnership with the UK Department of Culture, Media and Sport and Gamble Aware, has led
 to recent regulatory changes in online gambling in Great Britain. Parke is regularly invited to pro-
 vide evidence and evaluation for the Advisory Board for Safer Gambling and is an academic mem-
 ber of the Scottish Advisory Panel for Gambling. Internationally, Parke is working with the Interna-
 tional Research in Gambling and Gaming group in Germany to support European gambling regu-
 lators (TÜV Intercert) produce safeguarding and harm-minimisation protocols for digital forms of
 gambling in offline and online settings.

 Harkins, Barrie, McPhee and O’Gorman, who represent the UWS Contemporary Drug and Al-
 cohol Studies Programme, engage in policy and publicly engaged research on alcohol and drug-
 related harms (DRHs), both nationally and internationally. This significant body of funded research
 projects and associated outputs has shifted the discourse on DRHs from a narrow focus on indi-
 vidual drug-using behaviour towards a more comprehensive analysis of risk environments. The
 impact assesses broader socio-cultural, policy, and practice influences on DRHs, including lived
 experience of stigma, discrimination, inequality, deprivation and contact with health and criminal
 justice services. Staff outputs and strategic guidance help inform policymakers, civil society and
 NGOs, demonstrating significant influence on policy, practice and public debate.

 Children, Young People and Educational Contexts
 Within the context of education, a research group made up of social psychology researchers sub-
 mitted to UOA20 (led by Edgerton), has seen psychologists at UWS conduct research with chil-
 dren and young people across a wide range of areas. This research has strong practical applica-
 tions and policy implications both in and beyond Scotland and researchers have worked with local
 authorities and government bodies.

 Within the area of social inclusion, Wilson has focused on understanding inclusive education and
 the role teachers play in successfully including learners with disabilities in mainstream schools.
 She has examined teacher knowledge, explicit beliefs such as attitudes, self-efficacy, and stigma
 towards disability. She has also examined teachers’ unconscious biases and how these impact
 upon inclusive practice. More recently, she has investigated parental views of inclusive education.
 Wilson also has experience in bullying research and is part of projects aimed at enhancing social
 inclusion and emotional literacy of children with disabilities. In addition, she is currently involved
 in projects examining child, teacher and parent beliefs within low-attaining schools in Ghana and
 Malawi. Her work on inclusive education has resulted in important collaborations with Education
 Scotland and the Scottish Learning Disabilities Observatory Education. Ballantyne’s research
 concerns autism spectrum disorder and the inclusion of pupils to mainstream schools, from early
 years to secondary. The readiness of staff (both teachers and support staff) to teach and care for
 autistic pupils has been examined, including school settings, teacher knowledge and beliefs of
 autism. Her work also examines the usefulness of general ‘good practice’ for autistic pupils in
 primary schools. She has been a contributor to the Education Institute of Scotland (EIS) and the
 Scottish Secondary Teachers’ Association (SSTA) union providing training opportunities on autism
 spectrum disorder to teachers and contributing to their annual conferences.

 Within the area of young people, employment and education, McKechnie has continued to de-
 velop and expand his research since 2014 with his colleague Simpson. The research explores

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the costs and benefits of early work experience and the relationship between employment and
 education. They have continued to examine the policy implications of this subject area as demon-
 strated by their work for the Isle of Man government funded project to explore child employment
 registration. The focus on employment has also expanded by the work of Boyle and Scott. In the
 case of Boyle, she has focused on the use of serious games in terms of career skills in a project
 funded by the EU Lifelong Learning Programme and more recently, Scott and Boyle were suc-
 cessful in securing Erasmus+ funding to investigate the use of technology to facilitate graduate
 skills awareness. These projects share a concern around employment, employability, and educa-
 tion that has built upon this area since 2014.

 Dementia research
 Jenkins is the founder and co-convenor of ‘Multi-Species Dementia International Research Net-
 work’ with Ritchie & Jack-Waugh, which currently has over 60 members from two continents and
 several countries. Since 2014 this work has focused on exploring the social and cultural aspects
 of 'dementia', with a particular focus on exploring lived experience of dementia related conditions
 in younger adults and in comprehending how understandings of dementia and its effects are
 shaped by human subjectivity. The research draws on a variety of innovative qualitative methods,
 including participatory theatre, analytical vignettes and public sociology, and this work was
 shortlisted for the 2017 BSA Sage prize for Innovation & Excellence. This work is inherently inter-
 disciplinary, drawing on concepts and theoretical frameworks from across the social sciences,
 humanities and biomedical sciences. Since 2018, and with funding from the British Society of
 Gerontology (BSG) and Wellcome Trust, Jenkins has been leading development work exploring
 the contributions, contours and controversies of 'multi-species' approaches to dementia research,
 policy and practice, in collaboration with colleagues in the School of Health & Life Sciences at
 UWS (Drs Jack-Waugh & Ritchie).

 Priority interdisciplinary theme 2: Policy/Governance (links with the ‘Society’ and ‘Health’
 University themes)

 Academics in social sciences are heavily involved in social/public policy, territorial governance,
 politics, and public administration research within the theme of governance. This includes work
 focused on multiple level public sector reform and crisis governance (Connolly; Pyper; Van der
 Zwet; Pugh), constitutional change and territorial governance (Arnott), regional policy (Van der
 Zwet; Clark), governance in Asia (Van Noort) and labour market studies (Fuertes). Moreover,
 the topic area of national identities is a major research interest in the School. Leith’s work primarily
 concerns nationalism and national identity in Scotland itself and within the Scottish diaspora.
 McNally explores aspects of Irish nationalism, nationalist rhetoric and political theory. Campbell
 has undertaken significant research since 2014 to understand the dynamics of political behaviour
 in Germany. McKeever also researches European identity in the context of citizenship. Lambley
 has conducted social work research as part of international networks into the leadership and man-
 agement issues relating to social work policy and practice changes.

 Examples of major funding successes in recent years within this theme include:
     The Impact of Brexit on UK Fisheries Policy (funded by the Economic and Social Research
       Council). This ESRC-funded study was led by McAngus with Van der Zwet and Connolly.
       Significant knowledge exchange (with policy-makers, non-governmental associations and
       parliaments in Westminster, Scotland and Wales) and academic dissemination has
       emerged from this study, including collaborative research and policy outputs with the Brexit
       think tank ‘UK in a Changing Europe’ led by Professor Anand Menon.
     Waste, Water and Wellbeing: lessons from the interface of formal/informal urban systems
       in Dharavi, Mumbai (funded by the British Academy Global Challenges Research Fund).
       Clark and Connolly are co-investigators on a UWS-led study (Jeffery). The study pro-
       vides an in-depth analysis of formal/informal infrastructural collisions in Mumbai. Dharavi,
       as one of the largest informal settlements in Asia, is a highly significant centre of employ-
       ment and economic activity but is directly affected by many global challenges e.g., poverty,
       plastic waste, water shortage, poor urban resilience, migration, housing and sanitation.


                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Advanced Metagenomics, Sensors and Photocatalysis for Antimicrobial Resistance Elimi-
        nation (funded by NERC - Natural Environment Research Council). This study has become
        one the University’s major flagship interdisciplinary and cross-university projects which
        aims impact of antibiotic pollution on the environmental microbiology and to design effec-
        tive measures for monitoring antibiotic levels and to remove them from the waste if they
        are present. The project is led by Henriquez (School of Health and Life Sciences) and
        Connolly is the social science lead on the project, which involves working with policy and
        industry stakeholders in waste-water management to co-create effective regulations and
        policies aimed at addressing antibiotic waste in the environment. This project shows how
        social sciences contributes to major Research Council projects which aim to address the
        significant threats to populations and societies caused by antimicrobial resistance. It also
        contributes to global efforts to secure a ‘One Health’ approach to international regulations
        i.e., to ensure that regulations reflect multiple disciplines working locally, nationally, and
        globally, to attain optimal health for people, animals and the environment.

 These studies are robust examples of how the university supports interdisciplinary working and a
 non-silo-based and globally engaged research environment.

 Priority interdisciplinary theme 3: Justice (Links with the ‘Society’ and ‘Sustainability’ Uni-
 versity themes)

 The Justice research theme, led by Deuchar, concerns aspects of social justice as well as criminal
 justice. The signature research area in this theme is a life-course perspective focused on how
 young people and adults can be supported to make positive life choices to either avoid or move
 away from anti-social, violent and criminal behaviour. Other staff who contribute to this theme
 include McLean and Miller who research gangs, criminal networks, and youth crime. Anderson
 also researches criminal desistance. There is also a strong Policing strand to this theme of the
 UOA. For example, Atkinson’s research into terrorism, human trafficking, and organised crime.
 He also investigates policing reform in Scotland. Sapouna’s work has involved developing evi-
 dence-based anti-bullying programmes and training for organisations (including game-based ap-
 proaches). Martin’s research has involved multiple law enforcement agencies and examined
 crime and antisocial behaviour. A major project under the justice theme is that of the Unforgotten
 Forces study led by Frondigoun.

 Unforgotten Forces: Poppy Scotland (funded by the Ministry of Defence).
 Frondigoun, Campbell, Leith and Sturgeon have provided an independent evidence base,
 drawn from the service providers and older veterans who are using the services, to inform the
 future development of programmes to support former military personnel. The project, a 3-year
 funded project, was awarded GBP4,000,000 from the MoD/LIBOR Aged Veterans Fund. The Pro-
 ject aimed to deliver services to enhance the existing support for older veterans in addressing
 loneliness and isolation, respite breaks, a new day centre, therapeutic programmes in care homes
 and advice on issues such as benefits, support for those in medical pathways and help with es-
 sential transport. The evidence from the project, and consortium, called for extensive support to
 older veterans across Scotland including free travel for those who needed it to hospital and other
 appointments, support with hearing and sight loss, support in transitioning from hospital settings,
 befriending services and day centre activities for older veterans all of which were impacting on the
 older veterans’ well-being and addressing not only physical needs but loneliness and isolation.

 The research groups which sit under these priority themes have informed a renewed university
 research strategy focusing on the UN Sustainable Development Goals. These themes are linked
 together by a common strategy to make a difference to the communities that we serve to provide
 useful research for policymakers based on our current and historical research strengths in the
 areas of alcohol and drugs, social policy, criminal justice, and public policy.

 Other key intra-School research themes which have enhanced our research activities and culture
 since REF2014 include: Addictive Behaviours and Health, Children, Young People and Educa-
 tional Contexts; Scotland, Nationalism and Identity; Public Sector Leadership, Management and

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Reform; Multi-level Governance and Brexit; Refugees and Migration; Criminal Justice and Youth
 Crime, Risk Environments and Inequality. There are also synergies between these areas, and
 these are illustrated within our REF impact case studies. For example, sociology and social policy
 colleagues work with criminal justice colleagues across disciplines in the area of refugee and mi-
 gration studies – such as research into human trafficking. In addition, politics colleagues who re-
 search nationalism work alongside policy researchers on governance reform issues as a result of
 Brexit and COVID-19. We also collaborate with other research groups across the University, on
 inter-disciplinary problems of shared interest, and with research centres across the world in the
 areas of Gaming, Virtual Reality and Online Digital Media and Sports and Events.

 1.5 Open Research Environment
 To facilitate an open research environment, the UWS Library provides advice, guidance and user
 education to support the University's policy of guaranteeing Green Open Access. In addition, the
 Library actively contributes to consortium-level negotiations with publishers to access discounts
 for Article Processing Charges for Gold Open Access. Currently, Green Open Access is delivered
 via the UWS Research Repository (i.e. PURE). The Library works closely with colleagues in social
 sciences, coordinated via Leith as the library liaison officer, and gives clear advice and support to
 help staff ensure that their publications are stored on the repository in a timely fashion and that
 this fulfils the Open Access requirements for REF. The library also works closely with social sci-
 ence colleagues to help progress the UK's agenda for making publicly funded research more
 widely available to the public at no cost. In social sciences this open access to research is funda-
 mental given the type of socially useful research work staff engage in and it goes beyond the
 minimum open access requirements.

 1.6 Research Integrity
 UWS fosters and supports a culture of research integrity in social sciences via its active and sup-
 portive ethics committee. Currently chaired by McPhee - and supported by a rotating committee
 of PhD students, early career researchers and more senior academics (currently eight members
 in total) - the governance of research integrity is assured via the work of the ethics committee. All
 empirical research projects, whether undergraduate, postgraduate or staff applications, are sub-
 ject to robust processes of ethical scrutiny. This is in line with our research strategy to ensure that
 all our research is undertaken to the highest ethical standards. On application through our online
 Ethics Review Management system, studies are reviewed by independent and anonymous re-
 viewers who have expertise in the topic area, as well as being overseen by the Chair and the wider
 committee. The turnaround time for each application is usually 14 working days maximum. Re-
 views are firm but fair, offering collegiate and supportive feedback to applicants. It is the role and
 function of the ethics committee to ensure that UWS social science research is carried out in an
 ethical, legal and professional manner, reflecting the values of the university, as well as profes-
 sional bodies of the social science disciplines (for example, the Social Policy Association).

 People

 2.1 Staff Development Strategy
 UWS Research Services work collaboratively with ESS professorial leads for Research Strategy,
 Research Quality, and Research Mentoring and Development to design and offer staff on-going
 research support. From 2017-2019, a research support programme -'Grant Accelerator' - was co-
 produced by the School, wider university, and UWS Research Services to enhance the skills and
 knowledge of staff to develop successful external grant applications. In the Grant Accelerator pro-
 gramme, bi-monthly main sessions were supplemented by bite-size workshops facilitated by ex-
 perienced colleagues (e.g., Arnott, Clark, Connolly and Deuchar, as well as Boyle & Martin)
 with a successful track record of securing external research funding. Further development support
 is available to ECRs via the UWS Crucible programme. This programme supports academic staff
 in sharing perspectives and build relationships which may lead to interdisciplinary collaborations
 now or in the future.

 Since 2014 the growth in the number of externally funded research applications from academics
 based in the Division of Social Sciences (see section 5c) also reflects the career progression of

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ECRs. Sixteen ECRs participated in the UWS Crucible programme and twelve ECRs academic
 staff undertook the Grant Accelerator programme during the period 2014-2020. Grant Mentoring
 workshops were also held both at university and at School levels for colleagues to provide further
 informal support in the Grant Accelerator Programme. Ways to maximize the dissemination of
 research and impact activities were also included in this supportive mentoring programme. Staff
 are encouraged to review their research plans on a six-monthly basis via the institutional ‘MyCon-
 tribution’ performance development and review process and are supported with their training
 needs in line with individual career aspirations. By working with their line managers, staff identify
 their priorities to support their research development aligned to university and School research
 themes.

 2.2 Staffing and Recruitment
 The expectation is that every new appointee to an academic post will already hold a PhD qualifi-
 cation. While this is the norm in most parts of the School, and always in the Division of Social
 Sciences, it is not common for those recruited from practice and so those in education or social
 work posts will more likely have to complete a doctorate after appointment. This is a contractual
 requirement. Our income successes have allowed the School to reinvest in new appointments
 research support and facilities. For example, key appointments have been made to the politics
 group, criminal justice and psychology group since 2014. The recruitment strategy has been based
 on further enhancing our research-led teaching in these areas. The increase in staffing in criminal
 justice and politics has had a direct bearing on our research impact agenda given that the vast
 majority of new appointments in these areas are contributing to the UOA20 case studies. Further,
 the School strategy is that investment within the psychology discipline, in terms of staffing, has
 been based on a strategy to widen the UOA submissions in a future post-2021 REF (i.e., to de-
 velop research impacts in psychology and impact streams for future case studies). Equality and
 Diversity Training also supports staff with their research roles, for example the Women's Leader-
 ship Programme has unlocked invaluable support for the career development for academics.

 2.3 Support for Early Career Researchers
 Early career researchers have accessed support by the UWS Doctoral College via workshop pro-
 grammes. This includes training in PhD supervisory roles and also to Chair doctoral Viva Voce
 exams. Monthly supervisor forums provide a framework for information exchange and peer-to–
 peer support among staff. During the COVID-19 pandemic additional support to staff was made
 available to assist them in achieving their research objectives (for example virtual research support
 sessions were held across the School). Through mentoring support, this collaborative approach
 to supporting staff research development has facilitated ongoing support for staff, especially early
 career lecturers and researchers. In session 2018-19, eighteen staff participated in on-going men-
 toring support. In addition to mentoring, early career researchers are further supported by the
 UWS Crucible programme. Workshops and seminars on collaborative research working amongst
 early career researchers at UWS have been very successful. Since 2014, sixteen UOA20 ECRs
 have participated in the programme. The UWS Crucible facilitates the highest quality personal
 development experience for selected 'research leaders of the future' from academia, research
 institutes and business. To further support the research culture, internal peer-review systems for
 staff seeking to submit external applications for research funding has been managed throughout
 this REF period. This process has facilitated the support for sustainable interdisciplinary research
 themes and high-quality applications. The approach during the pandemic was to strengthen men-
 toring support for ECRs (and non-ECR) staff to work in flexible ways. We have been particularly
 keen to support ECRs in their research activities and as such worked with UWS People and Or-
 ganisation Development in accessing Carers' Fund and Flexible working arrangements for those
 staff with caring and other responsibilities.

 2.4 Academia – Industry Exchange
 Social science input, by Connolly, has contributed to cross-university COVID-19 research led by
 tensARC Ltd (fabric manufacturer) on the need for effective face coverings to reduce virus trans-
 mission to help protect the people who may be at more risk of harm from COVID-19. This project
 has been supported by a Scottish Funding Council grant and by a grant under Innovate UK. Over-
 all, however, the nature of our research is predominantly revolving around challenges in the public

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sector and third sector organisations. The enterprise aspects of the social sciences tended to be
 based around contract research or consultancies. For example, since REF2014 Van der Zwet
 has undertaken consultancy with the World Bank and the European Commission in the areas of
 urban development; Connolly has undertaken a range of consultancies with education and health
 agencies in Scotland which have led to the development and wide dissemination of evidence tools
 to inform practice. Examples include a Mental Health Outcomes Framework with NHS Health
 Scotland - see http://www.healthscotland.com/ofhi/MentalHealth/content/MHtools.html - and an
 Early Intervention Framework for Children and Young People’s Mental Health and Wellbeing with
 NHS Education for Scotland – see https://earlyinterventionframework.nhs.scot/
 These examples show that working co-creatively to support such organisations is a reflection of
 the types of social science research undertaken at UWS.

 2.5 Research & Impact Rewards
 Rewards from research successes include academic promotions (research and enterprise is a key
 criterion for promotion at UWS). For example, research successes have been an important factor
 in academic promotions to Senior Lecturer (e.g., Pietka-Nykaza, Bruce, Van der Zwet, O’Don-
 nell and Sapouna), to Reader (e.g., Troup), and to Professor (e.g., Leith and Connolly). Fur-
 thermore, academics are also supported to reap academic rewards through individual research
 accounts based on enterprise income (with the support of the Dean of School). There is also a
 progressive approach to rewarding time on work (activity) plans (e.g., staff time allocated to re-
 search is linked to research income successes).

 2.6 Research Students
 The PGR research environment for students linked to UOA20 has seen significant investment
 during a period of rapid and intense institutional change. There have been 32 PhD completions
 since 2014 (21.5 submitted for REF4a) and the School and Divisions have successfully created a
 research environment that has attracted a further 34 international students from Algeria since
 2019, significantly improving the vibrancy of our PGR student community.

 In parallel with this increase in student numbers, the University, School and Divisions have looked
 to facilitate the development of a strong international research culture. At the university level doc-
 toral students are supported by seminars, training and events organised by the Doctoral College
 and the UWS academy. At School level, doctoral students have benefitted from regular cross-
 School ‘Teachmeets’, organised on a monthly basis. The meeting provides a space for students
 to discuss research specific issues (ethics), PhD processes (e.g., transfer events, the viva voce),
 professional development (teaching, publications, etc.) and allows students to present their re-
 search in a safe space. There are also divisional colloquiums where students present their re-
 search progress.

 To support international doctoral students, the School has created a specific Doctoral Induction
 Programme designed for students from across its Divisions, and attended by students from across
 the institution. This 12-week programme, representing around GBP8,000 of investment and in-
 volving over 10 members of staff, provides participants with advanced research training coupled
 with dedicated English language support, culminating in the creation of a refined research plan
 which can be commenced immediately on enrolment and which forms the foundation for the doc-
 toral journey. The growth in numbers of doctoral students has also been matched by investment
 in resources, the most notable of which has been the creation of high-quality study areas on Pais-
 ley campus for doctoral students with dedicated desk-space and IT infrastructure for each individ-
 ual, and a second smaller suite designed for 24-hour access. The budget for these improvements
 has been GBP150,000 in the 2019-20 financial year, with further spaces planned in the coming
 year. Early career researchers have also accessed support by the UWS Doctoral College via
 workshop programmes to prepare them for PhD supervisory roles, chairing doctoral viva voce
 exams and the role of internal and external examiners.

 In addition to the above, up to GBP1,500 is available for each doctoral student to support their
 research and development and each student is provided with a laptop computer on initial registra-
 tion. Further support relates to software requirements and includes access to QuestionPro, Nvivo,

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 SPSS and many other packages. Each student has a minimum of two supervisors, one in the lead
 role, and a third colleague as an assessor. The assessor has both an academic and pastoral role
 and evaluates progress at specified dates: after 12 weeks, after 6 months, and then annually, or
 as required. The assessor is also responsible for evaluating performance related to ‘transfer’ which
 is the point at which the student is assessed as meeting doctoral progression requirements. The
 online MyPGR platform helps structure and manage progress and is also used to meet UKVI
 requirements for international students. This administratively precise approach has helped the
 School improve timely completion rates.

 The School runs various research seminars and training events throughout the year to supplement
 those offered by the Doctoral College. Through the School’s membership of the Scottish Graduate
 School of Social Sciences, a number of workshops have been funded. Three doctoral students
 have also received funding for internships at the Scottish Government. Senior policy specialists
 from the Scottish Policy Research Exchange have also provided support and information for stu-
 dents whose research has a strong policy link. In addition, each Division offers a range of research
 events with a more disciplinary focus. Clark has facilitated PGR development opportunities, in-
 cluding methods training, through her role as Associate Director at the Scottish Graduate School
 of Social Science since 2018.

 2.7 Equality & Diversity
 UWS is an inclusive university and committed to principles of Equality and Diversity. The School
 monitors progress of the UWS Public Sector Equality Outcomes and Mainstreams Actions. How
 we support staff and sustain an inclusive research culture reflects the procedures to mainstream
 equality, diversity and inclusion. For example, since 2017, UWS have, via the annual Staff Re-
 views (MyContribution) process, encouraged conversations between managers and staff around
 their contribution to EDI activities. A Black and Ethnic Minority Staff network and an LGBT+ net-
 work (which are both peer led) were established in 2017. In 2020 the School of Education and
 Social Sciences established an Equality and Diversity Committee to work with colleagues in ad-
 vancing the UWS commitment as an inclusive university. This committee runs alongside a new
 social science working group aiming to ‘decolonise the curriculum’ and assist staff in revising their
 classes and approaches to equality and diversity in their practices and pedagogies. All staff have
 received and participated in training in Equality and Diversity. The Equality Act 2010 and Human
 Rights legislation promote ideals that are embedded within the UWS and Schools research strat-
 egies.

 UWS supported Women into Leadership through the Aurora Leadership programme 2013-2017.
 UWS People and Organisational Development team have now designed their own Women into
 Leadership programme. This has allowed a larger number of participants on the programme. UWS
 has secured a Bronze Award Athena Swan accreditation in 2019, demonstrating commitment to
 advancing the careers of women. We are also committed to inclusive provision under the terms of
 the Equality Act 2010. Further evidence of the inclusive approach by the School is through staff
 participation to agree on the values underpinning our School governance - promoting equality,
 dignity, respect and understanding that shape our day to day working. These shared values create
 a culture that supports diversity and individual differences.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Income and Funding Strategy
 Since 2014, UOA20 has reported GBP2,200,000 in external research income up to the end of the
 2019/20 financial year. Approximately 65% of our research income sources is drawn from govern-
 mental bodies and charitable organisations, which is a reflection of our social purpose and contin-
 ued successes in undertaking research which aligns to governmental priorities. This research in-
 come has also helped to support a staff development fund which is used to support research costs,
 including conference fees, travel, and fieldwork. This amounts to around GBP60,000 in the current
 financial year, with priorities being given to costs which relate specifically to valued research out-
 comes or for early career researchers.


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2 Organisational Investment
 The Dean’s Executive Group has also allocated specific time and roles to some of the social sci-
 ence professoriate to help lead and support its research agenda: Connolly has the key role for
 overall Research Strategy, Clark for Research Quality (with a particular focus on arranging and
 overseeing internal reviews for all external grant applications), and Arnott for Research Mentoring
 and Development. Deuchar is responsible for international research partnerships and collabora-
 tion. More recently, Leith has taken on a liaison role with the university’s library and information
 services to support research. Van der Zwet and Matemba at the lead for Postgraduate Research
 Students in the School and they work with colleagues across the institution to ensure that PhD
 students contribute to, and benefit from, an engaged postgraduate research community. McPhee
 is the Chair of the School’s Ethics Committee. The previous School’s Ethics Lead and vice-chair
 co-ordinated a review of the ethics process in 2016-2017.

 With the School’s staffing costs sitting at approximately GBP9,000,000, nearly GBP2,000,000 an-
 nually is dedicated to supporting research activity. A further 10% allocation is given to every aca-
 demic colleague for ‘Scholarship Activity’, some of which is dedicated to research. This amounts
 to some GBP800,000 per annum. Professors and Readers in the School are appointed or pro-
 moted on the basis of being able to enrich the research environment and to demonstrate leader-
 ship across a number of areas, including mentorship, research quality and support for ECRs. Col-
 leagues undertaking doctoral study have a 10% allocation of time to support this, and have their
 fees waived if undertaking the degree at UWS or 50% of fees if at another institution. Colleagues
 receive staff development within the School, through our central Research Services and externally
 where appropriate.

 3.3 Support Staffing and Infrastructure
 Two professional services colleagues in the School are also employed with specific school re-
 search administration support roles: to support research applications and awards, and to provide
 support to doctoral students. This level of School-based support ensures academic ambitions can
 flourish.

 3.4 Specialist Research Infrastructure for Impact
 There has been significant investment in social psychology at UWS in two core areas, facilities
 and equipment. In 2014, the University opted to re-locate the psychology laboratory space so that
 it was co-located with the staff group. This allowed the new laboratory spaces to be purpose built
 to support staff and student research. The new facilities included enhanced computer suites, iso-
 lated cubicles to support one-to-one testing/data gathering and the introduction of a social psy-
 chology lab for focus group and interview work. The total investment in this re-design was approx-
 imately GBP275,000. Investment in facilities has continued to reflect the growing staff group and
 research interests. For example, in 2018 an additional laboratory space was created to support
 research work in biopsychology and more specifically work with electroencephalogram (EEG)
 equipment (approximately GBP10,000 of investment). These new facilities have had a significant
 impact in supporting staff and post-graduate students’ research. The isolated cubicles has allowed
 for the development of staff research linked to their drug research and supports postgraduate
 research students.

 The School and University supported capital bids to enhance our existing equipment stock. Be-
 tween 2016 and 2018 we invested in eye-tracker equipment in the form of a desk based and
 mobile systems (approximately GBP30,000 and GBP15,000, respectively). During 2017-18 we
 added to our biopsychology equipment to support staff research interests, including the purchase
 of an EEG and Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) and additional software and weara-
 ble biometric measurement equipment (GBP65,000). We continue to invest in equipment and re-
 sources to support staff and student research. In 2018-19, the School upgraded computing equip-
 ment to provide the higher specifications required for research purposes and additional software
 to support the greater use of online data collecting. All of the above investments have enhanced
 staff research capacity and teaching facilities.

 3.5 Cross-HEI Infrastructure Collaboration

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Social science research and networking also benefits from UWS membership of Universities Pol-
 icy Engagement Network (UPEN) and the Scottish Policy Research Exchange (SPRE) which fos-
 ter collaborations (including resource sharing) between researchers and PGRs across universities
 and civil society bodies in the UK. UWS is also a member of the Scottish Graduate School for
 social sciences, which allows PGRs to be supported to share research spaces (pre-pandemic)
 with PGRs in different institutions on project-based activities.

 3.6 In-kind Benefits
 UWS research has generated a number of in-kind benefits in terms of supporting the student
 experience. Examples include Police Scotland delivering research seminars to support the Inter-
 disciplinary Research Unit on Crime, Policing & Social Justice and colleagues at Education Scot-
 land and Public Health Scotland have given talks to undergraduate and postgraduate social sci-
 ence students. Students also benefit from a strong programme of guest speakers from organisa-
 tions such as Oxfam, the Coalition for Racial Equality and Rights and the Scottish Human Rights
 Commission as well as visiting academic speakers from around the world. Further in-kind benefits
 are obtained from our international partnerships. For example, our strategic partnership with the
 Metropolitan State University (MSU) of Denver has allowed UWS social work and social science
 students to get involved in teaching and research collaborations with MSU academics.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
 Our research is strategically focused on social policy, politics, criminal justice, sociology, social
 psychology and social work, due largely to the targeted investment that has culminated in posi-
 tioning research within CSSC. Staff routinely engage with a wide variety of external partners, such
 as the Scottish Human Rights Commission, Oxfam, the Coalition for Racial Equality and Rights,
 Skills Development Scotland, the UK Parliament, the Scottish Parliament (to name a few) in order
 to secure strong impact for our research in terms of changing policy and practice. Since 2014,
 there has been a significant development in the breadth and depth of the research and knowledge
 exchange work being undertaken across the social sciences. For example, our international-level
 interdisciplinary social science research, with social policy, politics, governance, social psychol-
 ogy, and criminal justice are major strengths. We have seen major successes in funding (including
 via Research Councils e.g., the ESRC-funded Brexit and fisheries policy study and the NERC-
 funded antimicrobial resistance study), PhD student completions and impact activities with exter-
 nal organisations such as Government, charities and other I/NGOs. The continued strategy for
 this UOA has been to build on our strengths and cultivate a research culture where we make a
 real difference to communities and public policy locally, nationally and internationally.

 4.2 Engagement with Users, Beneficiaries and Communities
 A major example of how UWS research has led to engagement with users, beneficiaries and com-
 munities has been via the UWS-Oxfam partnership. The partnerships ‘Austerity and Health’ pro-
 ject (involving Collins and Connolly, in collaboration with Dr McCartney at NHS Health Scot-
 land and Professor Mackenzie from University of Glasgow) contributed to local community-
 level and national policy-level discussions about the relationship between austerity and the health
 and social fabric of ex-industrial communities. This study was part of, and contributed to, research
 led by Professor Collins’ work into excess mortality which involved various partners including the
 Glasgow Centre for Population Health. Both the Austerity and Health and Decent work studies
 have led to highly impactful academic publications and media attention. Furthermore, Clark and
 Van der Zwet have led a ‘City Deals’ project to understand the ways in which city deals might
 successfully support community and equalities interests as part of the economic development
 agenda. The research focused in particular on partnership, City Deals design process, stakeholder
 participation, capital and policy investments, gender and equality considerations, decision making
 processes, and visions for the future.

 4.3 Contribution to Economy and Society
 A key strategic societal impact from UWS research (as seen in the UWS-Oxfam partnership ICS)
 was the creation of the Scottish Government’s Poverty and Inequality Commission as a result of

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 high-level engagement by the Partnership. The Commission was established from 1 July 2019. It
 is an advisory non-departmental public body which advises Scottish Ministers on any matter relat-
 ing to poverty or inequality in Scotland, including the impact of policies and the use of resources
 in reducing poverty and inequality. This is a major achievement from social science research. In
 fact, the five ICSs for UOA20 demonstrate the pioneering contributions of UWS research to tack-
 ling endemic social problems, strengthening our communities and improving public services in the
 line extant societal challenges (including Brexit and the COVID-19 pandemic). The academics
 who contribute to this UOA are passionate about promoting social science research widely. This
 includes the need to be responsive to new developments. For example, academics have contrib-
 uted to understanding the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on social care workers and public
 attitudes towards the COVID-19 pandemic control measures (www.pandemicpolitics.net). They
 have been successful in undertaking research into Brexit but also making links between govern-
 ance crises associated with Brexit and pandemics planning and responses - https://policyscot-
 land.gla.ac.uk/policy-briefing-brexit-crisis-management-pandemics/. The Contemporary Drug &
 Alcohol Studies programme at UWS is lead partner in a leading edge inter-institutional research
 project funded from October 2020 by the Scottish Drug Deaths Taskforce. The project is entitled
 ‘Understanding the Role and Potential of Primary Care in the Prevention of Drug Deaths post
 COVID-19’, and is led by O’Gorman and Professor Whittaker, University of Stirling. The study,
 with research sites in Glasgow and Edinburgh, will engage in interviews and focus groups with
 GPs, patients, affected family members and other stakeholders with complex systems mapping.
 Moreover, 2021 marks the tenth anniversary of the UWS-Oxfam Partnership. We will continue to
 work with Oxfam Scotland to deliver projects which seek to involve our communities to make real
 world impacts to address poverty and to reduce inequalities in the post-pandemic context. An
 example of this research regarding food insecurity in light of the COVID-19 pandemic.

 4.4 Discipline, Interdisciplinarity and International Priorities
 UOA20 social scientists are influencing and developing their respective sub-disciplines through
 their external roles. Since 2014 the profile and esteem factors to support the research environment
 has seen major positive developments. Academics undertake grant reviewing for major funding
 bodies aligned to international funding priorities. For example, Dr van der Zwet, Professor Arnott
 and Professor Connolly have been active members of the ESRC Peer Review College. Also, staff
 also do not only review for journals, book publishers and funding bodies, but are also editors for
 journals with international standing or members of editorial boards. For example:

       Clark is Editor of Romani Studies journal and a member of the Editorial Boards for Critical
        Romani Studies (CEU) and Sociology Compass - Race and Ethnicity
       Connolly is the Editor of Contemporary Social Science journal (the flagship international
        journal of the UK Academy of Social Sciences).
       Jenkins is an Associate Editor for Sociological Research Online
       Atkinson is Editorial Officer for the journal Criminology and Criminal Justice and has
        served as Associate Editor for the journal. Campbell is Associate Editor for the Journal of
        Contemporary European Studies.
       Deuchar is a member of editorial board for Police Quarterly and Urban Crime journals.
       Leith is a member of the editorial board for the National Identities journal.
       Troup is an Assistant Editor for Frontiers in Psychology, Assistant Editor PLOS ONE, As-
        sistant Editor for Peer J., editorial board member for Medicine and has been Special Topic
        Editor Frontiers Psychology Emotion Section ‘Cannabis and Emotion’.
       Baumgartner is on the Editorial Board for the International Journal of Boyhood Studies.
       Sidva is a member of the Editorial Board for Practice in Action.

 4.5 Wider Influence and Contributions
 Moreover, the School’s strategic research position has been to encourage staff to engage with
 external professional bodies and to contribute to their wider disciplines. Since 2014 several of our
 academics, at all career stages and across social science disciplines, contribute to the wider dis-
 cipline through their work with professional associations. For example:



                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Arnott is Associate Director of the Centre for Families and Relationships (a consortium of
        universities that works collaboratively with service users, practitioners and policy makers
        on research and knowledge exchange on families and relationships).
       Connolly served as co-convenor of the Public Policy and Administration specialist group
        of the UK Political Studies Association (PSA) - the largest group of the PSA (2014-2019).
        He is also a Member of the Publications Committee of the UK Academy of Social Sciences
        and Visiting Scholar at the Metropolitan State University of Denver, Colorado USA.
       Bolger was elected to the Professional Standards Committee of the Career Development
        Institute in 2019.
       Campbell is Secretary of International Association for the Study of German Politics
       Clark has been Associate Director (Methods Hub) for the Scottish Graduate School of
        Social Sciences (2017-2020).
       Edgerton is Research advisor to Architecture and Design Scotland
       Jenkins is a Steering Group Member for MedSoc Scotland.
       Leith is co-convenor of the Britishness specialist group of the UK Political Studies Associ-
        ation.
       Troup is an Affiliate Faculty Member of the Graduate School, Cognitive Neuroscience,
        Northern Michigan University, Marquette, Michigan. Troup was also Affiliate Faculty - Cog-
        nitive Neuroscience Colorado State University, Colorado, USA, Department of Psychology
        (2017-2018)
       Pautz is co-convenor of the German Politics specialist group of the UK Political Studies
        Association.
       McCrory has been a member of the Career Development Institute (CDI) working group to
        review the content and learning outcomes for the UK professional qualification, the Quali-
        fication in Career Development (QCD). McCrory was also a member of the Scottish Gov-
        ernment Steering Group for the 2020 Scottish Career Strategy.
       Wilson is a member of the British Psychological Society’s Psychology of Education Com-
        mittee
       Sidva is co-convenor of the Global Refugee Health Research Network (GRHRN): Ad-
        dressing the evidence gaps for informing migration and health policies. Led by University
        of Edinburgh and partners from the Global South (Jordan, Uganda, South Africa, Bangla-
        desh, India) and North (UK, Australia, Canada and the US).

 Academics submitted to UOA20 have received significant awards since 2014:

       In 2016-17 Deuchar was the recipient of a prestigious Fulbright scholarship award and
        spent a semester as Fulbright scholar-in-residence within the School of Criminology and
        Criminal Justice as Affiliate Professor at Florida Atlantic University, USA. Deuchar’s Affili-
        ate Professorship has been renewed for second term 2020-2023.
       Wilson won the British Psychological Society Psychology of Education Section Early Ca-
        reer Researcher Award in September 2017.
       McLean won European Association for the Sociology of Sport Young Researcher Award
        in 2017.
       Maciejewski won the Psychonomic Society International Graduate Award in 2018.
       In 2016-20 Arnott was awarded a competitive Parliamentary Fellowship. The scheme, run
        in partnership with the Political Studies Association (PSA) gives fellows an opportunity to
        increase the impact of their research by working with the House Service to build public
        understanding of Parliament, as well as to inform, evaluate and enhance the House's work
        and that of its Members.
       In 2014, Connolly was awarded a place on the prestigious and highly competitive Scottish
        Crucible for Future Research Leaders funded by the Royal Society of Edinburgh.
       In 2014-15 Clark was awarded a staff Erasmus travel grant to spend research time at the
        University of Amsterdam and work with colleagues in the Institute for Migration and Ethnic
        Studies. In 2017-2018, Clark was awarded a competitive Royal Society of Edinburgh Fel-
        lowship to visit the University of Ljubljana in Slovenia for an extended period of time, six


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        weeks in total, to work with colleagues at that institution on a research project in the field
        of Romani Studies.
       Anderson won the prize for best journal article in 2016 with Probation journal.
       Jenkins was shortlisted for the prestigious BSA Sage Prize for Innovation & Excellence
        (2017).




                                                                                              Page 17
