Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Leeds Trinity University

 Unit of Assessment: 23 - Education

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 [Note: Category A submitted staff in bold. Non-Category A staff employed on the census date in
 italics. Other staff employed during the census period but not on the census date in normal text.]

 Context and Structure:

 This submission is based on the University’s Institute of Childhood and Education (ICE). ICE
 contributes to the education and wellbeing of children, families, learners and professionals - both
 inside and outside of the school system. It does this by:

    •   Providing excellent professional and academic Education programmes that focus on the
        needs of schools and other institutions in Leeds, West Yorkshire and beyond.
    •   Exchanging knowledge with fellow professionals, organisations and agencies to contribute
        and enrich our academic expertise and creating knowledge through research.
    •   Promoting and practising inclusion.
    •   Collaborating with individuals and organisations that share our values, to build resilience,
        enhance practice, extend knowledge, and widen horizons.

 This is Leeds Trinity University’s (LTU’s) first submission to the REF in Education. During the
 assessment period our strategy has been to build our capacity to conduct applied research that is
 valued by our partners, particularly around broad themes of social inclusion and education,
 building our capacity for achieving impact. LTU gained University status in 2012, and during the
 census period strategic actions have been taken which have underpinned an upward trajectory to
 enable this entry to the REF. The entry includes 9.8 FTE Category A staff based on a headcount
 of 11.

 During the assessment period, LTU has supported the development of research capacity in
 Education through the recruitment of research active staff and research leadership, including the
 appointment of a new Director of ICE with expertise in research development and a remit to
 prepare for an inaugural submission to the REF (Leach); see Staffing below. As described in
 REF5a, during the assessment period LTU has invested in centralised support for research
 including pre- and post-award contract support and an extensive research focused CPD
 (Continuing Professional Development) programme targeted at staff and postgraduate
 researchers (PGRs).

 Our focus during this early stage of our development has included the following strategic actions:

    1. Implementing a staffing strategy to enable ICE better to address its mission for research
       and impact through new appointments and skills development for all staff on research and
       Knowledge Exchange (KE) (including staff who are not yet independent researchers with
       a significant responsibility for research) (described in People below).
    2. Building the academic knowledge base of staff to maximise participation in national and
       international scholarly communities (described in Income, Infrastructure and Facilities
       below).
    3. Upskilling practitioners’ capacity to use research evidence to improve their practice through
       doctoral training, including our own staff (described in People below).
    4. Developing partnerships as vehicles for applied research, impacting on society and
       contributing to the discipline (described below).
    5. Unifying themes and coalescing the activity of individual researchers.
    6. Creating impact and knowledge exchange within and beyond the academic community.



                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research - 1) Social Inclusion:

 Our Department’s knowledge and interests have blended to facilitate a unifying theme in the
 understanding and promotion of social inclusion across many submitted outputs. This strategic
 theme has been further developed through interdisciplinary collaborations between LTU staff with
 different academic backgrounds creating a sustainable focus for debate and exploration of issues,
 and thereby contributing to the vitality of the research environment. This strategy has involved
 wider networking with other academics in the region and beyond thereby maximising opportunities
 for regional collaborations which make the most of national resources.

 Developing partnerships in the region has engendered significant academic activity and
 intellectual stimulus. An example of such vitality drawing on social work and education is the book
 Becoming Citizens: Perspectives on Social Justice in the 21 st Century (including Elmer), and the
 book Everyday Social Justice and Citizenship (including Ba’, Mealey who is entered in another
 UoA, Doherty and Fook), and the book Meeting the Mental Health Needs of Young Children 0-5
 Years (including M. Potter, Glazzard). Outputs submitted by Ba’, Bradley, Elmer, Flanagan,
 Hanna, Jarvis, Lau Clayton, Nuttall, Pinkney, and Tshabangu further address social inclusion.
 Topic areas include precarious gender debates within employment and employability, young
 fathers and young mothers in higher education, teachers’ professional knowledge about poverty
 and disadvantage, child protection for the disadvantaged and vulnerable, experiences of play
 therapy, care experienced young people, educational inequalities, the experiences of BAME and
 marginalised British families during lockdown, domestic abuse, and gender and poverty in sub-
 Saharan Africa. Many of our outputs on understanding and promoting inclusion address under-
 researched questions in education, thereby making original contributions to knowledge that have
 been shared within the academic community and beyond through scholars’ participation in various
 networks (described later in this section).

 The main focus of our approach to research impact is to build, nurture and resource partnerships
 with appropriate organisations to facilitate the conduct, and associated impact, of our applied
 research (as exemplified later in this section). During the assessment period resource was
 invested into a central office to support new business development and the ongoing delivery of
 activities as described in REF5a. Ba, Elmer, Lau Clayton, Pinkney and Tshabangu received
 institutional investment through which they developed and nurtured national and international
 networks in order to progress the impact of their research (as described later in this section).

 This approach to research impact can be illustrated by Lau Clayton’s work on masculinities and
 young fatherhood, with a particular focus on young fathers’ aspirations for, and experiences of,
 higher education. In order to conduct her research and maximise its impact, Lau Clayton has built
 and sustained several partnerships with government and third sector organisations. Examples
 include partnerships with Leeds City Council’s Support and Prevention Team, Futures (an initiative
 supporting parents under the age of 25 who have experienced the first-time removal of a baby
 under the age of 12 months), and collaboration with the Young Dad’s Collective North (through
 Leeds Acts! funding on young fatherhood and experiences in Higher Education). Further examples
 are presented in Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society
 below. LTU recently invested £24.5k of additional QR (Quality Research) money (2020) to support
 Lau Clayton and Pinkney in the further development of networks to support future research and
 impact around young fatherhood and care experienced young people.

 Our two submitted impact case studies (ICSs) further exemplify this approach. The case study on
 Improving Young Fathers’ Experiences in Higher Education shows how the research was
 designed and conducted in collaboration with stakeholder groups as partners (as well as research
 participants). This approach enabled pathways to impact including promoting awareness amongst
 policymakers, influencing national policy through invited evidence presentation at an All Party
 Parliamentary Group (APPG) (postponed till 2021 due to the pandemic), contributing towards
 more effective service delivery, and contributing to public debate by working with national media
 outlets such as the BBC (British Broadcasting Corporation). The work is ongoing, and the team

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 organised an online national conference (November 2020), stakeholder steering group (February
 2021) and will be presenting to the Scottish Government’s Pregnancy and Parenthood in Young
 People Strategy (tbc 2021). The case study on Giving a Voice to Marginalised and Socially
 Disadvantaged Children, Families and Adults in Vulnerable Contexts also describes how the
 research was designed and conducted in collaboration with stakeholders and partners, and how
 partner organisations were integral to the impact strategy for the research. Dissemination at
 professional CPD events promotes social care employer engagement through higher level
 Apprenticeship programmes, designed to upskill local children’s social care professionals and
 subsequently impact on professional practice.

 Research - 2) Education:

 A second unifying strategic theme is concerned with the teaching and learning school subjects
 (Ford, Hoath, Leach, Podesta, Stanford). This theme encompasses curriculum, pedagogy and
 impact. Ford, Podesta and Stanford have worked on curriculum and pedagogy in history
 education with a particular focus on developing history teachers’ subject knowledge for
 pedagogical purposes. Leach and Hoath have worked on teacher development, subject teaching
 strategies and pedagogy in science education. Maximising the impact of national resources,
 research agendas were developed through collaboration with academics in the region and beyond
 (e.g. The University of Leeds, Sheffield Hallam University, The University of Cambridge).

 Impact from Ford, Podesta and Stanford’s work can be seen through the Schools History Project
 (SHP) which is run by LTU and Directed by Stanford. SHP has maintained significant reach since
 its inception in 1972, across national and international practitioner communities, and provides
 focus towards our strategic aims. In assessing the impact of SHP on the landscape of history
 teaching in the UK, within the context of the contemporary interest in ‘powerful knowledge’ and
 conceptualising the school curriculum, Chapman (Knowing History in Schools, 2021, UCL Press)
 has described the SHP as having ‘contributed to a model of what disciplinary historical learning
 looks like that is largely accepted (…) and that has been widely adapted nationally and
 internationally’ (p.11). For example:

    •   The SHP GCSE history specification was taken by between 16.5k and 17k students per
        year (2018-20), across 252 examination centres in 2019.
    •   37 textbooks (including 2 by Ford, 1 with in excess of 12k sales) to support SHP school
        history teaching are published by Hodder.
    •   SHP runs a significant programme of CPD for history teachers including an annual
        conference; the Virtual Annual Conference held in July 2020 was attended by 723 people,
        and smaller CPD sessions have had over 300 participants (multiple contributions by
        Stanford, Podesta and Ford in the census period).
    •   The SHP website had 79,286 viewings in 2019 and the SHP Twitter feed has 6,960
        followers.

 During the census period Ford’s research has formed the basis of both CPD sessions through
 SHP and SHP textbook content and assessment materials. For example, his submitted output
 underpinned 6 CPD events for history teachers as well as the assessment pack for the Hodder
 SHP Teaching History series (2014).

 During the assessment period Hoath and Leach have both addressed the interaction between
 subject content, pedagogy, curriculum and learning in science. The pathway to impact from this
 work has been through publication for professional audiences (Hoath), delivering (Hoath) and
 contributing to practitioner CPD curricula through STEM/Science, Technology, Engineering and
 Math Learning (the national body for STEM CPD) (Hoath and Leach). Hoath and Podesta
 established and have run a practitioner research group for teachers and have established an
 action research programme to investigate the impact of members’ participation in the group on
 their practice. Although this work is still in progress, an initial finding was that members came to
 feel more empowered to focus their research on their own classroom practice rather than whole
 school issues. This has been drawn upon by Hoath in her professionally oriented publications and

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CPD inputs, including for example, three practitioner conferences (two international and one
 national) relating to effective pedagogies for teaching outside the classroom and practitioners
 researching their own pedagogic practice.

 Impact Strategy

 LTU has identified Education as a priority area for investment in its next strategic plan. Our focus
 will encompass both applied research and associated KE and research impact activities. At the
 time of writing LTU is in the process of recruiting professorial leadership for at least 1, and
 preferably both, of its current research themes (as outlined in People below). Depending on the
 number and focus of recruitments, further research themes may be developed. At least 1 fully
 funded doctoral studentship will be associated with the appointments. Our future strategy involves
 developing impactful research on inclusive education in collaboration with the Leeds Learning
 Alliance (LLA), preferably through a new Research Centre with professorial leadership.

 LTU is a Founding Partner in the LLA, which is a Foundation Trust of educational and third-sector
 anchor institutions in Leeds committed to strengthening inclusive education as part of the city’s
 Inclusive Growth Strategy. Leach is a Director. The LLA provides a mechanism for impact from
 our research around the theme of inclusive education. For example, we have developed a new
 Postgraduate Certificate in Inclusive Leadership which uses Nuttall’s research on inclusive
 leadership in urban primary schools to exemplify how aspiring leaders can engage with principles
 of social justice to inform contextualised and locally sensitive leadership policies and practices. It
 is anticipated that impact will be evidenced across a range of participating educational settings,
 through leaders’ improvement plans which tackle issues related to marginalisation and exclusion
 and which promote strategies for developing and maintaining effective inclusive practices.

 Building upon our early-stage strategic actions, the future priorities for research and impact during
 the next assessment period will focus on:

    1. Further developing the vitality and sustainability of our research environment through
       academic appointments and career development for individuals. In particular the strategy
       to recruit additional Professorial senior academic leadership in Education, set within the
       census period and being realised at the time of writing.
    2. Further developing our research supervision capacity in Education to enable us to support
       applied research and KE with academic and professional communities, contributing to the
       research base.
    3. Demonstrating appropriate vitality and sustainability in the research environment at
       institutional and disciplinary levels and achieving research degree awarding powers.
    4. Investing to support existing (and some new) partnerships and collaborative networks to
       underpin our applied research and impact activities.
    5. Developing the scale and scope of research activity around unifying themes of education
       and social inclusion.
    6. Further developing our CPD offer (and enabling infrastructure) to support staff specialising
       in professional practice (in schools and other workplaces) to develop research impact.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 Developing the staff base and enhancing staff knowledge and skills has been the main strategic
 focus during the assessment period. This has included making staff appointments and developing
 the knowledge and skills of all staff. In order to address the aims of ICE that are described in the
 first paragraphs of Unit Context, Research and Impact Strategy, as well as to fulfil teaching
 requirements, the unit’s staff base includes a large number of colleagues with a background in
 some form of professional practice (including social work, nursing and teaching). As such, on
 appointment many staff bring with them rich practice backgrounds that enable the design of
 impactful research, as well as networks that provide potential for strong pathways to impact.

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Equally, while some such staff have strong research skills on appointment, others require research
 training to be undertaken while in work and undertake PGR study on a part time basis to provide
 this training. The current academic staff of ICE includes examples of people who have progressed
 from undergraduate and/or postgraduate study at LTU into practice and have returned to
 academic posts (with associated part time research degree study), thereby contributing to the
 research base. All staff benefit from mentoring on appointment, tailored to their needs, alongside
 the formal review and development scheme that all staff are required to participate in.

 During the period, in order to enhance the trajectory towards enhanced sustainability and vitality
 of the research culture, 3 Readers and 2 Professors were either internally promoted or appointed
 through external processes (Fulford, Jarvis, Lau Clayton, Fook, Leach). Leach was appointed
 as Director of ICE in June 2018, with a remit to develop the academic environment of ICE in line
 with the strategy stated above. Several new Early Career Researchers (ECRs) were recruited into
 substantive academic posts during the census period (including Ba, Bradley, Hanna,
 Tshabangu). 5 staff obtained their doctorates (Bradley, Hoath, O’Sullivan, Pearce, C. Smith) and
 5 staff are currently studying for doctorates at LTU or elsewhere (Flanagan, Nuttall, Podesta,
 Pratt, Wright). Support for staff undertaking doctorates is through time allocations in their
 workloads, as described later in this section, and fees are waived if studying at LTU.

 There is evidence that LTU Educational researchers are attractive to other universities. During the
 census period Bradley was promoted to a research-focused position at another institution, and
 Fulford and Glazzard were promoted to their first Professorial positions at other institutions. Lau
 Clayton was also promoted internally to a Readership. To address succession, a programme of
 academic appointments was initiated and ECRs including Baron, Laverick and Nassem were
 appointed (in some cases after the REF census date). Further appointments will be made in the
 near future.

 A number of actions have been taken in order to develop the research knowledge and skills of
 academic staff. LTU has initiated a vibrant programme of research focused CPD as described in
 REF5a. This includes sessions for staff and PGRs addressing, for example, writing for publication,
 grant capture, Open Access (OA) publishing, and research degree supervision and assessment.
 During term time, the programme has at least 1 session per week on average. In addition,
 Education-specific staff development during the census period has included the initiation of a
 monthly seminar programme addressing both research and research impact. Seminars are well-
 attended, and have included a focus on ongoing doctoral projects, paper-writing and funded
 research projects, as well as Education-focused discussion of more general areas such as
 developing KE in Education. ICE also hosts the seminar series of the Yorkshire and the Humber
 Branch of the Philosophy of Education Society of Great Britain (PESGB).

 Workload credit is given to all staff for research activities. In common with the academic contract
 used across ‘post-92’ universities all staff are allocated 165 hours per year pro rata for research
 and scholarly activity. In addition, Professors are allocated a further 660 hours per year pro rata
 and Readers a further 385 hours per year pro rata. Further allocations are made within individual
 workplans to take account of specific research activities, including 135 hours per year for those
 registered on doctoral programmes. 70 hours per year are allocated to PGR supervision teams,
 with 90 hours allocated to supervisory teams of 3. In line with the Code of Practice all annual
 performance review meetings address academic staff plans for research and scholarly activity.

 Roles in ICE have been restructured to include colleagues with allocated time to lead on research
 (Lau Clayton) and KE and research impact (Doherty). Elmer provides a link between ICE and
 centrally organised services that handle the recruitment, admission, administration, and training
 of PGRs. Support is provided to staff from other parts of the University undertaking doctoral study
 through supervision (e.g. by Elmer and Leach) or advice on engaging in pedagogic research in
 their subject areas (e.g. Elmer). Researchers, and particularly more experienced researchers,
 regularly provide feedback to colleagues about papers and presentations during development and
 before submission. Although not yet formalised into a ‘peer review college’ there is knowledge and
 expectation that such feedback is available and will be taken up.

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 As previously described LTU is currently in the process of putting in place senior research
 leadership for its research themes by recruiting at least 1 and hopefully 2 Professors (with
 associated fully funded doctoral studentships). These appointments will add leadership capacity
 for both research and research impact as well as providing increased depth in supervisory capacity
 for PGRs, thereby adding to the sustainability and vitality of the research environment. Although
 the appointed Professor(s) will be instrumental in shaping the strategic development of the
 research themes, the current intention is to develop a Centre for Inclusive Education under
 Professorial leadership, with routes to research impact in place through existing partnerships
 including the Leeds Learning Alliance.

 Research Students

 2 doctoral degrees were awarded during the census period, and 10 were in progress on 31 July
 2020 (9 PhDs and 1 Masters by Research). A further funded studentship has been allocated and
 will start on 1 February 2021, with other funded studentships planned associated with Professorial
 and other recruitment. The number of PGRs in the UoA has grown steadily and then been
 sustained over the census period (see table 1). The total spend on PGR support in the UoA for
 the assessment period was more than £19.8k. This included conference attendance (including
 overseas conferences) and research expenses.

 Table 1: PGR student numbers per year in the UoA during the assessment period

  Year                                             Registered PGR students
  2013                                             0
  2014                                             0
  2015                                             1
  2016                                             5
  2017                                             6
  2018                                             10
  2019                                             10
  2020                                             10

 Supervisors from Education receive training through the University of Leeds as described in
 REF5a, and there are now 2 ‘Model 1’ supervisors in Education (Elmer and Leach), indicating
 that at least 1 doctorate has been supervised successfully to completion. Ba’, Lau Clayton and
 Hoath are currently co-supervising research students and Martin and Tshabangu have
 undertaken the required training at the University of Leeds. Supervision teams have been
 strengthened by, and received mentoring from, experienced supervisors from Psychology at LTU
 and Education at the University of Leeds. Elmer and Leach are part of interdisciplinary
 supervisory teams for PGRs from Psychology and Media respectively. The new Professorial
 recruitment(s) will add supervision capacity to the UoA. The institutional relationship with the
 University of Leeds is underpinned by a contract and is therefore sustainable.

 Much of the generic skills development for our PGRs is provided centrally. It includes provision
 from the accrediting partner, University of Leeds, and online content from the University of East
 Anglia via Guild HE membership. Our PGR students contribute to vitality in the research
 environment. In addition to the activities presented in REF5a, Education doctoral students present
 at and attend the ICE seminar series, and see themselves as part of a developing research culture
 in Education in which they can develop skills in research dissemination and make an original
 contribution to knowledge in the future. LTU also hosts the Philosophy of Education Society of
 Great Britain (PESGB) Yorkshire Branch which is housed at LTU. The PESGB Branch seminars
 were initiated by Fulford and are now jointly organised by a recent doctoral graduate who is now
 a Visiting Lecturer at Leeds Trinity (O’Reilly) and Podesta.




                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Equality and Diversity

 Promoting and practicing inclusion is part of the mission of ICE and underpins our approach to
 research and impact activity in Education. For example, we prioritised social justice, social work,
 vulnerable adults and children during the internal competition for funded research studentships
 and recruited a candidate to research care experienced and estranged students in HE (Feb 2021).

 As per the University’s Code of Practice, all staff involved in the unit’s decision making for
 REF2021 have completed REF-specific Equality, Diversity and Inclusion training. During the
 census period appointments (including senior appointments) have included people with protected
 characteristics that are traditionally underrepresented (disability, LGBT+, BAME, international,
 female). The submission to UoA23 has strong representation from traditionally underrepresented
 groups: All but 2 of the 11 Category A staff entered academia after a significant period of time in
 practice in social work, nursing or school teaching. Category A staff include 6 women and 5 men,
 2 people with non-UK citizenship, 2 people who identify with a group classified as BAME, and 2
 people living with a disability.

 The Unit and University recognises its obligations under the Equality Act and, as a Disability
 Confident employer, supports its staff and students experiencing health issues as a result of an
 underlying disability as much as possible. The University’s Dyslexia and Disability Support Team
 liaise with relevant Unit members about measures needed to accommodate specific access
 needs, of staff or students, via individualised Learning Support Plans. As an accessible campus,
 our accommodation and campus buildings have been developed to include: platform lifts for
 wheelchair users, automatic doors, en-suite rooms, adapted kitchens, adapted fire alarms for
 students with hearing impairments; therefore, all laboratories, teaching rooms, and offices are
 accessible.

 Where a staff member or PGR has frequent, short-term absences that are related to a disability,
 then adjustment of short-term absence triggers in respect of that individual can occur. Such issues
 are dealt with on a case by case basis. Where employees become disabled during the course of
 their employment, whether through injury or ill health, the Unit and University make reasonable
 adjustments to support them in their role (e.g., office re-location, changes to working patterns,
 provision of appropriate equipment or software, support with time off for ongoing treatment etc.).

 The Unit follows the approaches outlined in the University’s Health-Related Absence Policy which
 describes a multi-stage approach primarily led by the line manager (staff) or supervisor (when the
 returnee is a PGR student). Initial Back to Work discussions take place following the individual’s
 return to work after any period of short- or long-term absence. These discussions, no matter how
 brief, are important to ensure that the person returning to work feels supported and enables any
 potential work-related issues to be addressed at the earliest possible stage. Where a period of
 significant health, injury or disability absence has occurred, the Unit and University is committed
 to helping employees and PGR students to return to work on a programme of rehabilitation or
 phased return. Where a phased return is necessary, colleagues from Human Resources advise
 the line manager/supervisor on an appropriate approach, taking into account anything that has
 been recommended on the Fit Note. The situation is monitored closely, and the individual’s
 progress noted and reviewed on a weekly basis. Pregnancy-related absences are disregarded for
 the purposes of short-term absence triggers but women who have had time off for maternity are
 invited to attend Back to Work and Health and Well Being Meetings as appropriate to ensure there
 are no work-related factors that could be impacting on their health.

 The Unit also supports the University’s ambitions (stated in the People Plan 2018-2021:
 https://www.leedstrinity.ac.uk/media/site-assets/documents/key-documents/pdfs/people-
 plan.pdf) to recognise the link between the wellbeing of our staff and students and our overall
 success. Accordingly, resources are provided to encourage and inspire our people to pay attention
 to their health and wellbeing. Notably, across the University, ca. 10% of employees are trained
 and accredited Mental Health First Aiders. The Unit encourages the institution’s use of the
 Employee Assistance Programme. As part of the Mindful Employer network, the University is also

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a signatory to the Charter for Employers who are Positive about Mental Health, facilitating stress
 management workshops or wellbeing sessions, timely access and local support for staff during
 sickness absences, training for managers to tackle mental health issues as they arise and sharing
 of best practice between local businesses when working to minimise the impact of mental ill health
 at work.

 The unit also promotes the University’s Protection of Dignity at Work and Study Policy
 (https://www.leedstrinity.ac.uk/media/site-assets/documents/key-documents/pdfs/protection-of-
 dignity-at-work-and-study-policy.pdf) in order to provide a working and learning environment which
 is free from harassment, including bullying and unfair discrimination. The unit expects that all
 individuals will be treated with respect and consideration given that harassment can be detrimental
 to performance, morale, confidence, health and learning of those who are affected by it. Similarly,
 the University’s Student Mental Health Policy (https://www.leedstrinity.ac.uk/media/site-
 assets/documents/key-documents/pdfs/student-mental-health-policy.pdf) dictates the unit’s
 approaches to PGR student mental health provision.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 During the census period our focus has been on developing capability to pursue high-quality,
 impactful research and securing external income to underpin the sustainability and vitality of the
 research culture.

 As described above, in order to build the academic knowledge and skills of all staff and PGRs LTU
 and ICE initiated development programmes and seminar series during the census period. Staff
 and PGRs were supported to participate in research networks and conferences as previously
 described.

 A School-level Research Ethics and Integrity subcommittee was established (as part of the
 University structure described in REF5a), and development sessions have taken place to enable
 committee members and reviewers to develop an expert understanding of research ethics and
 integrity in Education, in line with the BERA (British Educational Research Association) guidelines
 (2018). As described in REF5a all PGRs, and colleagues involved in the conduct of research are
 required to successfully complete a MOOC (Massively Open Online Courses) on research ethics
 and integrity that was written by the University of Leeds and is offered through FutureLearn.

 Supported by dedicated Library staff, and recognising the benefits to the public and external
 stakeholders of unrestricted access to research outputs, the unit operationalises the University’s
 default Open Access approach (https://www.leedstrinity.ac.uk/media/site-assets/documents/key-
 documents/pdfs/open-access-policy.pdf); primarily via the green OA route linked to the
 University’s acquisition of the PURE repository. Such practice ensures that the unit’s research and
 KE outputs are openly available and accessible while facilitating rapid dissemination, and
 increased engagement by partners, stakeholders, beneficiaries, professional practitioners, and
 the wider public.

 We have also invested resources into growing our capacity to win competitive external funding,
 setting up a ‘permission to go ahead’ scheme with applications for external funding based on peer
 review from within and beyond the UoA. Colleagues submitting applications for external funding
 competitions receive support from more experienced funding applicants. This support takes the
 form of planning discussions about strategy and study design, detailed feedback on drafts and (in
 some cases) co-construction of applications with a small team being created. In addition,
 colleagues are encouraged to become involved in bidding consortia with more experienced
 colleagues from other universities, in order to contribute their expertise as appropriate and learn
 about the process of bidding for funding.

 Some bids have been submitted to UKRI (United Kingdom Research and Innovation), the BA
 (British Academy) and charities, and the UoA has secured ca. £48k of external funding during the
 census period. Although the absolute level of external funding awarded during the assessment

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 period is modest, it reflects considerable progress when compared with prior funding. This positive
 trajectory is now reflected in six areas of funded research activity. These have attracted £48k of
 external funding during the period and are:

    •   The establishment of the Yorkshire and the Humber Philosophy of Education Society of
        Great Britain seminar series (£18.29k, Fulford).
    •   £12.66k (British Academy) to support writing workshops (Hanna).
    •   Seedcorn funding of ~£750 was received from the charity LeedsACTS! and supplemented
        with internal investment of £31k from the QR Strategic Priorities Fund to support Lau
        Clayton’s research (with Pinkney and M. Potter) on lockdown and young fathers’ and
        care-experienced young people’s, access to HE.
    •   £8.49k from the British Academy was received to support Hanna’s research on migrant
        children in South Africa.
    •   £1.9k was received from Canterbury Christ Church University to support Jarvis’s
        collaborative work on the history of early years education.
    •   Small grants (£4.98k from the Independent Social Research Foundation; £59.48k from the
        Higher Education Academy split between institutions) were awarded to develop research
        on pedagogy and diversifying leadership in Higher Education (Fook).

 As described in REF5a, comprehensive training is accessed by LTU staff on all aspects of PGR
 supervision and assessment from the University of Leeds. We have also drawn upon expertise at
 the University of Leeds to support and provide mentoring to research degree supervision teams
 in Education in order to build sustainability, and we use the excellent education-specific resources
 of the Brotherton Library at the University of Leeds to support our research. Colleagues participate
 in discipline-specific seminar programmes in the School of Education at the University of Leeds
 (Leach, Podesta, Pratt) and the Leeds Social Science Institute (Ba’, Tshabangu). Colleagues
 also participate in Education-focused seminar programmes at Leeds Beckett University (Doherty,
 Martin, Nuttall, Pearce, Pinkney, Stephenson).

 We anticipate that such regional collaborations will be a key focus for the unit in the future, to
 maximise the impact of national funding through regional collaboration. The three universities in
 Leeds involved in the field of Education initiated a joint conference to further this intention (Hoath,
 Leach, Podesta) though this had to be postponed because of the pandemic. We intend to reinstate
 planning for this as soon as it is feasible to do so. Colleagues from the unit have also collaborated
 during the census period with the University of Perugia (Ba’, drawing upon Erasmus Staff Mobility
 grants), Oslo Metropolitan University (Pinkney, drawing upon an Erasmus Staff Mobility grant),
 The University of Tours and University of Hamburg (Lau Clayton, drawing upon Erasmus Staff
 Mobility Grants), and Vermont (Elmer drawing on internal funding). As described in REF5a the
 University has a fund to support colleagues in presenting their work at conferences. £14,295.76
 has been invested to support Education colleagues in attending conferences in the UK and a
 further £21,489.65 has been added to this from ICE budgets to support additional conference
 activity.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 As indicated throughout this document, one of our main developmental strategies has been to
 enhance our research capacity and impact though proactive partnerships and collaborations in
 the region and beyond. By collaborating with academics beyond LTU, we have contributed to the
 vitality and sustainability of our research culture, making the most of national resources. For
 example, we have been pleased to host the Yorkshire and the Humber branch of the Philosophy
 of Education Society of Great Britain. Seminars during the census period have been presented by
 national figures (including David Halpin, Ann Pirrie, Ruth Wareham, Darren Chetty, Janet Orchard)
 and these events are regularly attended by researchers from nearby universities including York St
 John and the Universities of Leeds and Huddersfield.

 Three individuals who have made particular contributions to society and/or the research base are
 Lau Clayton, Elmer and Leach:

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Lau Clayton has extensive external collaborations as a result of her work on young fathers and
 British families in lockdown. These have contributed to society. As well as the groups associated
 with Leeds City Council that have already been mentioned, an expert roundtable discussion was
 held in London on 11 March 2020 with representatives from the Department of Work and
 Pensions, the Director of Teenage Pregnancy Knowledge Exchange, Future Men (who provide
 the Secretariat to the All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Fatherhood, the Royal College of
 Midwives, the Family Nurse Partnership and the former Head of Policy at Barnardo’s. Local links
 include Home Start, Bramley And Rodley Community Action Leeds, Strengthening Families, Early
 Start, Leeds Pathway Team, North East Young Dads and Lads, and Future Men. She has provided
 consultancy to the Movember project, father participation and inclusion programmes (Australia,
 2018), and a piece on young motherhood on the Victoria Derbyshire Programme (BBC2, 2019)
 drew on her work on young fatherhood. She is a member of two All Party Parliamentary Groups
 (APPGs) (on Fatherhood and Children) and was scheduled to present her research findings to the
 APPG on Fatherhood in May 2020 (though the meeting did not take place due to the pandemic).
 She was also a member of the Fathers Development Foundation, and the Family Strategic
 Partnership Young Fathers Steering Group (DfE/Department for Education). Six written reports
 from this work programme (with M. Potter) were accepted in response to three calls for evidence
 by the Parliamentary Education Committee (24 June 2020), the Women and Equalities Committee
 (7 July 2020) and the Business, Energy, and Industrial Strategy Committee (9 June 2020). Her
 work on British families in lockdown, led to collaborations with colleagues at the Universities of
 Warsaw, Oxford and Glasgow. This resulted in a joint evidence report with the University of
 Glasgow accepted by the Parliamentary Education Select Committee on lockdown learning plans
 (6 October 2020).

 As described in one of our Impact Case Studies, Elmer’s research has made a positive
 contribution to society through improvements in therapeutic approaches in the primary classroom
 for children with emotional needs delivered as CPD to local educators, and the ways that
 professionals interact with vulnerable client groups around family conferences and domestic
 abuse.

 Leach was Deputy Chair of the Education subpanel (REF2014). Subsequently, he has supported
 Education research strategy in 5 English universities. He served as a member of BERA Council
 (2017-2020) and led BERA’s nominating process for membership of the current REF sub-panel
 for Education. He is now Deputy Convener of the Education sub-panel in the Hong Kong Research
 Assessment Exercise (2020, though reporting of the outcomes has been delayed until May 2021
 due to the pandemic). He was a member of the joint working group of the British Academy and
 Royal Society on the future of educational research that led to the report Harnessing Educational
 Research (2018). Through this work he has also contributed to public discourse about how
 educational research can better influence educational policy and practice through impact in the
 UK, contributing to the economy and society. Until 2018 Leach was a Board member of STEM
 Learning which uses DfE and Wellcome funding to provide CPD for professionals involved in
 STEM education. He was then invited to chair the new Research into Practice Committee to
 enable the CPD curriculum offered by STEM Learning to better draw upon research evidence
 promoting the significance and reach of STEM education research.

 Our staff contribute to the research base in many other ways too:

 Pinkney established and co-convened the BERA SIG on Children and Childhood (2015-18) and
 organised and chaired a national seminar bringing together researchers and practitioners on Care
 Experienced Young People, thereby contributing to society as well as the research base.
 Tshabangu has been on the co-ordinating committees for several international conferences
 including Leadership and innovation 2030: Gender empowerment for sustainable futures in Africa.
 Ba, Elmer, Flanagan and Hoath have made invited presentations at York St John University, the
 Universities of Amsterdam, Naples, Limerick, Lisbon, Parma, York, Vermont, Huddersfield, and
 Sheffield Hallam, Northumbria, and Liverpool John Moore Universities. Lau Clayton has made
 several invited presentations on her work on young fatherhood, including at the Universities of


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Tours, Portsmouth, and Turin. Submitted colleagues have made 58 presentations at conferences
 in the UK and beyond during the assessment period.

 Elmer, Hoath, Lau Clayton, Leach, Pinkney and P. Smith have supervised research degrees
 at LTU or elsewhere during the assessment period, and Leach, Pinkney and Tshabangu have
 served as external examiners for research degrees at the Universities of York, the West of
 England, South Africa, and the Open University.

 Lau Clayton and Leach have reviewed for the ESRC(Economic Social Research Council), and
 P. Smith has reviewed for the Higher Education Academy. Ba, Ford, Hoath, Lau Clayton, Nuttall
 and Tshabangu have reviewed for publishers including Open University Press, Sage, Palgrave
 Macmillan, and Bloomsbury. Hoath is the Editor of Primary Science Review, and Ba, Elmer,
 Hoath, Lau Clayton, Leach, P. Smith and Tshabangu serve on the editorial boards of journals
 including Quaderni di Teoria Sociale, British Journal of Play Therapy, Practice, Review of Social
 Science, Research in Science Education, Research in Education, and the International Journal of
 Asian Social Science.

 Leach is a Visiting Professor at the University of Leeds, Flanagan is an Associate of the Institute
 of Applied Ethics (University of Hull) and Tshabangu is a member of the Inequalities Research
 Network of the Leeds Social Sciences Institute (University of Leeds). Tshabangu edited a
 published book through the network on Global Ideologies Surrounding Children’s Rights and
 Social Justice, making a contribution to society with international reach. Pinkney has used her
 expertise in care-experienced young people to inform regional strategy on widening participation
 in higher education as the LTU representative on Go Higher West Yorkshire. She has longstanding
 collaborations with researchers in Denmark, is a member of the Centre for the Study of Childhood
 and Youth at Sheffield University, and since 2016 has led a network on care experienced children
 and educational aspirations involving social care and education professionals. Ba’ is a member of
 the ‘future of work’ section of the Centre for Employment Relations, Innovation and Change at the
 University of Leeds which considers the changing nature of work, including care work, which is
 fundamental to the early years of education. He specialises in job insecurity and parenting. He is
 also a member of Trans-Pennine Working Group, which considers theoretical innovations around
 the organisation of labour and social forms. The group facilitated contributions to the journal
 Capital & Class and to two international conferences. He is also a member of a research group
 (Ricerca Legami Sociali; RiLeS) at the University of Perugia (Italy) which focuses on researching
 social links. This is a network organisation focused on sociological research on social links and
 social theory, and it hosts the journal Quaderni di Teoria Sociale (Social Theory Notebooks); Ba’
 is a member of the Editorial Board. Hoath is a member of the Research into Practice Committee.

 Concluding Statement

 This inaugural submission to the REF/Education Unit of Assessment at LTU consists of 11
 Category A staff, with 2 PGR completions and 10 PGRs in progress on the census date with more
 in the pipeline and plans for significant growth in staffing at all levels of seniority. University
 commitment underpins the sustainability of our growing research environment and our vitality is
 evidenced through activities related to themes, events and collaborations regionally and beyond.
 From modest starting points our future trajectory is positive, and we look forward to further
 developing our strategies to enhance capacity, partnerships, research themes and impact.




                                                                                            Page 11
