Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of St Andrews

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 29: Classics

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 The School of Classics at St Andrews is one of the world’s foremost centres for the study of the
 ancient Mediterranean (in the top 20 QS global rankings for 2019 and 2020; in the top two in the
 UK in the Guardian rankings 2020 and 2021). Our strategy since REF2014 has been to expand
 the scale and range of our research activities through a marked increase in the numbers of staff,
 Postgraduate and Postdoctoral colleagues within the unit; through greater attention to inclusivity,
 to create a research culture in which everyone can thrive; and to extend our reach within the
 discipline through national and international collaboration. Our profile has been transformed into
 a bigger, more diverse, collegiate and outward looking community, including internationally
 recognised researchers at all stages in the profession. This has been achieved by:

        •Generating outstanding research outputs which include book length projects on
        subjects as distinct as ancient philosophies of death and immortality, Juvenal, the
        topography and sociology of late antique Rome, Dionysius of Halicarnassus, ancient
        cultures of animals, the reception of Catullus in Romantic Britain, and Terence. Our 50+
        journal articles have appeared in international and rigorously refereed publications such
        as AJA, AT, CA, CQ, HSCP, JRS and P&P, many of which are agenda setting, such as
        work on Classical Greek ethnography and the slave trade, and Christianization and
        memory. Some 15+ edited collections represent new approaches and international
        collaborations, such as Cosmopolitanism and Empire, Literary Interractions under Nerva,
        Trajan and Hadrian and Authority and Expertise in Ancient Scientific Culture. 160+
        individual papers such as ‘Palimpsest and Virtual Presence’ and 'Uncertainty and the
        possibilities of violence’ in edited volumes and collections highlight the esteem in which
        our colleagues are held by peer experts. Many colleagues also engage research users
        via online platforms, for example, by lively blogposts on Classics and Communism,
        Rhetoric and Democracy and the Bridges Collection of Cypriot artefacts.

        •Supporting ambitious new research projects with research leave and funding.
        Since 2014, colleagues have achieved unprecedented levels of success in securing
        external research funding from bodies such as the AHRC, British Academy, Leverhulme,
        Leventis, and the Loeb foundation. This has amounted to c.24 person-years of funded
        research leave, enabling colleagues to undertake projects such as ‘Mountains in Ancient
        Literature and Culture’, ‘Networks of the Cyclades’ and ‘Quantifying Enfranchisement in
        the Roman World’. These achievements are encouraged through rigorous internal
        reviews of grant applications as well as support through the award of a semester of
        research leave after every 6 teaching semesters. These external awards have created
        opportunities for ECRs to gain invaluable professional experience and to establish St
        Andrews as a recognised springboard into the wider career (see below, 2.1).

        •Building and strengthening interdisciplinary research clusters within the unit and
        university through the four Research Centres, all created since 2016. The Centre for
        Late Antique Studies, the Centre for the Literatures of the Roman Empire, and the Centre
        for Ancient Environmental Studies promote interdisciplinary research within particular
        areas. The fourth, the Centre for the Public Understanding of Greek and Roman drama,
        is primarily directed at public engagement with a subject in which we have considerable
        research expertise (see below, 3.5). The centres feature postgraduates and staff from
        the Faculties of Arts, Sciences and Divinity, and have secured externally funded PhDs
        and postDocs. Colleagues from the School are also central figures in research clusters
        elsewhere in the University, such as the Institutes for Gender Studies, Intellectual
        History, Cultural Identity and Memory Studies, Study of War and Strategy, and Legal and
        Constitutional Research.

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


        •Enhancing the school’s international profile. Since 2014, colleagues have launched
        research projects and/or co-authored work with academic collaborators in, for example,
        Denmark, Italy, the Netherlands, Germany, and the USA. Through our 50+ conferences
        featuring over 500 speakers, we have forged new multi-disciplinary relationships with
        other world-leading centres of classical research, such as La Sapienza (Rome), Bonn,
        Groningen and Tübingen. In addition, we have expanded our annual staff exchanges to
        Columbia to include William and Mary, and the University of Cyprus. As visiting fellows,
        we have hosted scholars from the USA, Netherlands, Italy, France, Finland, Germany,
        Brazil, China, Denmark, and Greece. In person and online, we have welcomed over 160
        seminar speakers (see below, 3.5). This has helped to strengthen our international
        visibility as a top tier location for postgraduate studies with now 68 % of our PGR
        students and 61% of our PGT students from outside the UK.

        •Expanding the School’s size and disciplinary reach, while maintaining quality.
        Since 2014, the complement of research-active permanent staff members has increased
        by c 30% to 21 staff through 8 new permanent appointments. Within the overarching
        ambition for modest growth by replacement and innovation, our staffing strategy has
        been twofold: to reinforce our existing strengths in Greco-Roman history and Late
        Antiquity and classical Greek and Latin literature, and to extend our coverage into new
        areas such as Classical Reception and the Archaeology of Environment and Early Rome
        (see below, 2). This strategic growth has helped us to increase our PGR and PGT
        numbers (see below, 2.2).

        •Colleagues’ service in positions of national and international leadership within
        the discipline. For example, since 2014, Smith completed his office as the Director of
        the British School at Rome and is now Executive Chair of the AHRC; Halliwell was
        appointed FBA; Lavan, Long and Rees have leading roles in journal editorship; and other
        colleagues have been newly appointed to influential roles in national committees and
        international publications (see below, 4).

        •Diversifying and enriching our impact activities. The growth in numbers of our
        category A staff has generated an increase in our Impact activities. Critically, the three
        ICSs required for REF2021 represent a 50% increase from 2014. We have expanded our
        impact and outreach programmes through a combination of teaching relief, increased
        funding and administrative support, and by building teams of colleagues working on
        projects, The results of this strategy can be seen in each of our three ICSs,
        ‘Archaeological resources enhancing education and well-being: Through a Glass Darkly’,
        ‘Shaping modern perceptions of military culture through Roman experiences’ and
        ‘Transforming practice in schools and the performing arts through Greek and Roman
        drama’. This wider participation represents a welcome step-change in our working
        practices (see below, 3.5). The impact of our research is local, national and international
        – for example, our three ICSs cite details of changes that our research has inspired in
        Scotland and the UK, Canada, France, Italy, New Zealand, and the USA. This has been
        achieved through a variety of means, including professional consultation work,
        collaborations with schools, museums and cultural groups (e.g. creative artists and
        practitioners) and engagement with others (e.g. heritage visitors, prisoners, homeless
        and mental health charities and their outreach events).

 Responsibility for the research and impact strategy outlined above is shared between the Head
 of School (HoS), the Director of Research (DoR) and the Director of Impact (DoI) in consultation
 with the School’s Management Committee and Principal’s Office. Five School Staff Councils per
 year ensure wide engagement and discussion with all colleagues. Each colleague has an
 Annual Review with the HoS and a Research Review with the HoS and DoR; these meetings are
 valuable opportunities to reflect with colleagues and help to identify research and impact
 synergies within the School (see below, 2.1). These various mechanisms for reflection and

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 planning ensure that everyone is heard and that regular discussions about research and impact
 activity are at the heart of our planning. Our on-going grant success is in part attributable to the
 fact that colleagues routinely share drafts of research proposals for comment with the School
 Research Committee and senior staff. A further distinguishing feature is the active and
 supportive nature of our research community: we work together to support research
 development for all staff through mentoring processes, and we involve staff and PGs in our
 seminar and conference programme. We have also increased investment in administrative
 support and financial resources for research activity.

 Our commitment to recruiting excellent postgraduates and preparing them for their professional
 future is a point of pride. In addition to the Directors of Postgraduate Research and Taught, we
 have recently appointed a Postgraduate Mentor, a colleague who coordinates staff feedback to
 our PG students as they progress through their skills development and teaching opportunities.
 Furthermore, we have created opportunities for our PGs to develop a wider range of research
 and impact experiences: the School funds PG and ECR conferences, actively includes PGs in
 the planning and realisation of full-scale research events and provides resource and experience
 to help PGs organise their own seminar series.

 In our 2019 Teaching Review, the School was commended for its commitment to research-led
 teaching, particularly in modules at Honours level (i.e. UG years 3 and 4): examples include
 ‘Anonymous Writing in Ancient Rome’ (Geue), ‘Roman Praise’ (Rees), ‘Networks and the
 Cyclades’ (Sweetman), ‘Poverty and Social Life in Late Antiquity’ (Machado) and ‘Travels and
 Marvels in the Graeco-Roman World’ (Petsalis-Diomidis). Exposure to – and opportunity for
 participation in – our research and impact activity are now a high-profile feature of our typical UG
 experience. Every year, six Classics UGs participate in the University’s centrally funded
 Research Internship scheme (undertaking six weeks of paid research/impact work under staff
 supervision). Through competitive selection, the University’s Laidlaw scholarship programme
 funds research projects of the UGs’ own devising; since 2014, the School has boasted eight
 Laidlaw scholars on various projects, such as fieldwork and co-authorship of publications (e.g.
 on the Late Antique churches of the Cyclades; see figure below). With support from the School
 and the University, two UGs organized an international and multidisciplinary conference on
 Aesthetics in 2020 (postponed by Covid to April 2021). We believe that our emphasis on
 research throughout the UG programme helps to explain the high rate (between 30% and 40%)
 of UGs who go on to undertake postgraduate degrees.




 Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact
      •To extend the scale of the new interdisciplinary collaborations in research and
      postgraduate teaching stimulated by our Research Centres (e.g. new PhD supervisions
      with the Schools of History, Divinity, Neuroscience and Computer Science).


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       •Enhancement of the range of our research projects and conferences through growth of
       our international collaborations (e.g. with Bonn, Tübingen, La Sapienza, Groningen and
       Melbourne) and with the development of themed series such as the visibility of women in
       antiquity expressed in different media, and topics connected to the School’s four Centres,
       including the planned conferences ‘Reconstructing the ancient environment through text
       and archaeology’ and ‘Lived spaces in Late Antiquity’.
       •To attract the best applicants for PhD degrees we have doubled our investment in PGR
       funding (see below, 2.2) and increased the range of academic and professional
       developmental opportunities.
       •Expanding our recent track record of success in major grant awards, with the goals of
       widening the range of colleagues with awards and building towards a set of large-scale
       project applications over the next five to ten years, to include new PhD funding (see 2.2);
       to that end, since 2014 we have developed several projects through a series of small- to
       medium-sized grant applications and collaborative research events.
       •In parallel with our recent success in embedding good Equality and Diversity (E&D)
       practices in the day-to-day research life of the School (see below 2.3), such priorities are
       central to consideration of external invitees for seminars and conferences.
       •Growing our range of public events on ‘responsible Classics’ (Classics and Exile,
       Classics and Democracy, Classics and Human Rights, Classics and Race, and Inclusive
       Classics).
       •Advancing the ambition and scope of our Impact projects, building on our already
       significant levels of experience and investment, e.g. Hesk’s long-standing provision of
       online resources for secondary schools has evolved into close dialogues with teachers in
       the UK and in his participation in in-service professional development of schoolteachers in
       Italy; and AKönig is expanding her project on ‘Visualizing War’ to engage more theatre
       practitioners.
       •Coordinating new research synergies between colleagues, e.g. Buckley, Machado and
       Rees on images of power in the past and present (with a focus on Domitian); Carroll,
       JKönig, Petsalis-Diomidis and Stead on 18th and 19th century travellers and views of
       contemporary societies; Carroll and Hesk on the staging of choral odes in contemporary
       theatre production; and Brock and Post on ‘Ancient Environments - lessons for
       contemporary society’. We now employ an external consultant to help us develop Impact
       projects. This pooling of experience and expertise increases our potential for Impact.
       •Covid 19 has put pressure on all our research and impact operations, from access to
       fieldwork and libraries, to postponements of visiting fellowships, workshops and
       conferences, to changes to publication timetables. We have sought to maintain our
       research and impact activity where we can, modified as appropriate, and to think ahead to
       new practices and projects when we can.

 Section 2. People
 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 The School has 22 CAT A staff (6 Lecturers, 8 Senior Lecturers, 2 Readers and 6 Professors).
 Since 2014, we have made 8 new permanent appointments; for seven of these, our appointment
 strategy has been to recruit at Lecturer level early career colleagues and to help their research
 and careers flourish within the School. Accordingly, we have appointed Brock, Carroll, Geue,
 Machado, Petsalis-Diomidis, Pezzini, and Stead, two of whom have since been promoted to
 Senior Lecturer. The exception to this strategy was the appointment of Harrison as Professor of
 Ancient History. Through these appointments, we have expanded into and consolidated several
 areas which we identified as priorities: Ancient Persian Culture, Late Antique History and
 Material culture, Art History, Republican Latin Literature and Reception Studies.

 As a result of our success in securing external funding since 2014, we have also been able to
 recruit 11 outstanding Early Career Researchers on fixed-term contracts, all of whom have
 played an active part in the School’s research culture. The School has a long-standing
 commitment to support the research and broader career development of fixed-term colleagues in

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 exactly the same way as for colleagues on permanent contracts (such as through access to
 research funding and research leave opportunities). Our success in helping to develop early
 career researchers can be seen in the recent appointment to permanent positions of four
 colleagues who held fixed-term positions at St Andrews, at TCD (2018), Lancaster (2019), Cork
 (2019) and St Andrews (from 2021).

 Staff and Research Clusters
 Although much of our research and teaching crosses these traditional disciplinary boundaries, all
 academic staff have a principal affiliation to one of three teaching areas:

  Ancient History     Brock, Coulston, Harrison, Lavan, Lewis, Machado, Smith and Sweetman
  Greek               Carroll, Halliwell, Hesk, JKönig, Long, Petsalis-Diomidis, Wiater
  Latin               Buckley, Geue, AKönig, Pezzini, Rees, Stead

 Across the range and expertise of the staff, the School pools particular research strengths which
 generate impact, inclusivity and interdisciplinarity.

  Greek and Roman drama             Carroll, Halliwell, Hesk, Pezzini, Buckley, Stead
  Material Studies                  Brock, Coulston, Lewis, Machado, Petsalis-Diomidis,
                                    Sweetman
  Literature (Greek and             Buckley, Geue, Lavan, AKönig, JKönig, Manioti, Rees, Wiater
  Roman) of the imperial period
  Late Antiquity                    JKönig, Lavan, Machado, Pezzini, Rees, Sweetman

 Recognition of these research clusters has been formalised in the creation of our four research
 Centres within the School (see below, 3.5). These areas have been enriched by colleagues on
 fixed-term contracts, such as Addey and Usherwood on Late Antiquity or Campbell and Cousins
 on Material Studies, and also by emeritus/emerita staff members and by colleagues with
 classical expertise in other Schools who are members of our Centres (e.g. Harries and Humfress
 in the Late Antique Centre).

 Appointment process
 Our determination to create a collegiate and outward looking research culture in which everyone
 can thrive is at the heart of our appointment process, as can be seen in two key principles. First,
 we advertise and select on a global scale. Our standard practice is to invite all shortlisted
 candidates to attend final selection in person (rather than by e.g. Skype). Our nearly 20
 permanent and fixed-term appointments since 2014 include Irish, Canadian, German, USA,
 Greek, Australian, UK, Brazilian and Italian nationals, and enhance our inclusive and multi-
 cultural profile. Secondly, throughout the longlisting and shortlisting stages, all colleagues within
 the School have access to the application portfolios (including extensive samples of research)
 and are consulted by the appointment panel. Research excellence and a capacity for
 outstanding research-led teaching are the driving selection criteria. Presentations by shortlisted
 candidates are open to staff and PGs; these are very well attended, and the subsequent
 collective evaluations are reported to the panel before final interviews and appointment.

 Staff Development
 Induction procedures for new staff are at University (OSDS and CEED –see Institution-Level
 Environment Statement, ILES, 3.2) and School level (Academic reviews and Mentoring). All new
 staff (both permanent and fixed-term) are introduced to the University’s professional resources,
 and career developmental opportunities are available throughout the year.
 In 2018-19, the School mentoring programme for new staff was revised and extended to all
 colleagues. The scheme provides regular, informal support and guidance in all School matters,
 including research, teaching and promotion ambitions. New colleagues are also allocated a
 ‘buddy’ for their first year to help navigate any day-to-day concerns. In recognition of the under-



                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 representation of women in senior positions, the University operates a dedicated mentoring
 scheme for female colleagues, to which the School contributes both mentors and mentees.
 The University’s probation procedures (standard period currently 15 months) provide for formal
 meetings between staff member, mentor and HoS. The School’s policy is to give all new staff on
 permanent contracts a 30% reduced teaching load in their first year. To integrate them into our
 research community, all new staff give a paper to the research seminar at an early stage.

 ‘Check in’ Meetings, Annual Review and Promotion
 In annual Research Review Meetings with the HoS and DoR, colleagues have the opportunity to
 discuss their particular research activities and ambitions. Typically, these meetings involve
 consideration of outputs, both published, in progress and anticipated, and Impact. Colleagues
 are encouraged to be ambitious in their grant application and publication plans and candid in
 their ranking of their own REF-eligible outputs.

 The Annual Review process, based around a completed proforma, is a one-to-one conversation
 between the HoS and colleague; it covers all aspects of professional performance (teaching,
 research and impact, administration), both retrospectively and prospectively. It is a valuable way
 to help connect promising areas of research and impact compatibility between colleagues.

 As a self-contained School within the University, there are many opportunities for significant
 leadership roles, at all stages of the academic career: for example, the directorships of the four
 Centres represent new managerial responsibilities for staff and so expand professional
 development opportunities to a wider number of colleagues than was the case before. Roles
 such as Director of Research and Director of Postgraduates now have deputies (Director of
 Impact and Director of Postgraduate Taught) with a view to increasing training and opportunities
 for career development. Suitably supported by the School’s Management Committee and
 Professional Services staff, such high-profile positions offer exciting creative potential and have
 proved rewarding to the various office-holders, for example in career development and
 promotion ambitions.

 Promotion is an annual process by open competition within the Arts Faculty: the criteria, which
 are publicised to all staff, were fundamentally revised in 2017, among other things to give
 greater recognition to teaching, impact, and E&D issues. Staff are encouraged to discuss their
 promotion prospects with their mentor and with the HoS in Annual Review; we also invite the
 University’s HR department to deliver a presentation and Q&A session for staff in advance of the
 applications deadline. Since 2014 the School has celebrated 12 promotions as follows (even
 taking into account the expansion in staff numbers, this record of staff promotions is
 unprecedented in the School’s history):

  Senior Lecturer      Buckley, Coulston, AKönig, Long, Machado, Pezzini, Wiater
  Reader               Lavan, Hesk
  Professor            JKönig, Sweetman, Rees

 Research Leave and Opportunities
 The School recognises that time is one of the greatest resources in conducting excellent
 humanities research; weekly, seasonal and triennial measures are now in place to protect time
 that colleagues could be dedicating to research. In semester time, no UG or PGT classes are
 timetabled for research-active staff on Mondays; planning and preliminary administration of
 teaching for each new session are now finalised by mid-June, thus freeing up the second half of
 June, July and August for research activity. The School operates a research leave scheme for all
 research-active colleagues, at a rate of one semester of leave after each six full teaching
 semesters; this represents an increase in frequency of research leave since 2014, until when
 entitlement was after eight semesters. Applications for research leave are made to the HoS, who
 consults with the Management Committee and maintains a record of accumulated entitlement.
 With advice and support from colleagues, staff are encouraged to apply for external funding (see


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 below, 3.1) to tie together with sabbatical leave entitlement to extend the period of dedicated
 research.

 When such grants are secured, it is our practice to replace the grant holder’s teaching with a
 fixed term grade-7 Lecturer, (with research as an explicit part of the contract) rather than a
 grade-6 Teaching Fellow, and as a policy with a 12-month rather than 9- or 10-month
 appointment. Fixed-term lecturers enjoy the same access to School research resources as
 permanent colleagues, including research allowances and eligibility for exchange programmes
 and leave, and are encouraged to teach research-led Honours modules. They also participate
 fully in the processes of performance review and are encouraged to submit draft work and
 funding applications for comment and advice. Our bi-annual Leventis Teaching Fellow
 (employed as part of the Leventis Exchange Fellowship with the University of Cyprus), is also
 awarded a semester of research leave as part of their 12 month contract.

 Post-Doctoral Schemes
 Since 2014, we have welcomed the following post-Doctoral colleagues. This represents more
 than a twofold increase from the previous REF census period.

  Manioti                     Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship 2014-17
  Lampinen                    BA/Newton International Fellowship 2015-17
  Pyy                         Finnish Postdoctoral Fellowship 2015/16
  Geue                        BA Postdoctoral Fellowship 2015-18 (promoted to Lecturer)
  Hollis                      Leverhulme Postdoctoral Research Fellowship (2017-20)
  Brock                       Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship (promoted to Lecturer).
  Post                        Leventis Postdoctoral Research Fellowship (2020-22)

 Professional support staff
 In liaison with the University’s Business Transformation team, all aspects of Professional
 services with the School have been fundamentally revised and expanded since 2015. This
 process has clarified and increased the range of professional support available for research and
 impact activity within the School including a colleague dedicated to research, impact and funding
 and a colleague dedicated to conference organization. These structural changes have
 significantly increased continuity and confidence among all colleagues, and enabled us to
 sustain an unusually rich conference programme, including hosting the 2018 Celtic Classics
 Conference: historically, a conference of this scale would have put too much pressure on the
 organisers and infrastructure at St Andrews; the conference ran smoothly and was considered a
 great success (see below, 3 on Infrastructure).

 2.2 Postgraduates

 Administration and Recruitment
 The School’s Director of Postgraduate Studies is responsible for the recruitment and progress of
 our research PGs (PGR). The Director of PG Taught is the deputy. With the MLitt Convenor and
 PG Mentor, they form the PG committee.

 Our PGR applications and numbers have grown and diversified in subject area since 2014. We
 have deliberately pursued a policy of prioritising academic quality over volume and we work hard
 to keep our intake at a maximum of 6-7 students per year. This ensures that we have the time
 and resources for outstanding supervision and for provision of excellent teaching opportunities to
 all our PGR students. Our current PGR numbers are 35 PhD [of whom 13 are female, 22 male]
 and 2 MPhil [1 male, 1 female]. In this REF cycle our PGR community has been drawn from a
 wide range of countries (France, the USA, Netherlands, Denmark, New Zealand, Canada,
 Australia, Brazil, Chile, Norway, Italy, Greece, UK), both attesting our international appeal and
 enriching the diversity of our research environment.

 Since 2014, the School has celebrated 5 graduations to MPhil and 34 to PhD. This is a 50%
 increase on the research degrees returned for REF2014.

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 PhD Funding & Supervision
 Funding is at the heart of attracting the best postgraduates to the best projects, and the School
 appreciates that it is in competition in this field with much bigger and wealthier Universities. The
 School has more than doubled its own funding for PGs from 11 students between 2009 – 2014
 to 25 students from 2014-2019. Our PhD students have won funding administered by the
 University via its PG college, St Leonards (Inter-Disciplinary Scholarships; World Leading
 Scholarships, International Fee Waivers; Wolfson; Santander 600th Anniversary awards, as well
 as awards from the ‘Handsel’, Bonnyman and A. D. Links schemes (ILES, 3.3); we have had
 notable successes in studentship applications to national and international fields such as
 SGSAH AHRC Doctoral programme (eight studentships in the period 2016-19) and overseas
 government funding (from Brazil, Chile, Denmark, Mexico, and the Netherlands); since 2014, we
 have supervised PhDs on international co-tutelle arrangements with La Sapienza, Aarhus, Oslo,
 Leiden and Chancellor College Malawi. We have also created opportunities for international
 research trips for our students via Erasmus+ in Leiden and Cologne, with further visits to La
 Sapienza, Harvard and Tübingen in place. Students have been funded by the British Schools to
 conduct research in Athens and Rome.

 We have expanded our system of allocating second supervisors where it is academically
 appropriate, and we ensure that all new staff have been involved in PhD supervision by the end
 of their second year in post. We have undertaken co-supervision of PhDs with other Schools in
 the University, such as History, Modern Languages and English. Many staff have supervised
 and/or examined their first PhDs in this assessment period.

 PG Training and Facilities
 PGRs have working facilities in the School itself, with 24/7 access to the School and the School
 Library; they are all invited to post a research profile on the School website.

 Training opportunities for PGR Students are provided by the School, within the University on the
 GRADskills programme (ILES, 3.3) and nationally via STAGE (the student-run body for Classics
 postgraduates at St Andrews, Aberdeen, Glasgow and Edinburgh). We provide ‘in house’
 professional training in technical matters such as grammar instruction in ab initio classical
 language teaching or artefact handling; and in more general principles of good pedagogical
 practice, such as in conducting tutorials and marking coursework assignments. The PG Mentor
 organises a workshop for the incoming cohort of PGR teachers, staffed by colleagues. Since
 2014, 5 PGRs in Classics have attended residential courses at the BSR or BSA including some
 on technical skills such as numismatics and epigraphy, funded by the School’s budget. In
 collaboration with the Classical Association of Scotland, STAGE hosts an annual conference for
 PGs, sometimes with an element of professional training e.g. ‘Training and Research in Material
 Culture Related to the Ancient World’ a two-day conference (2015). SGSAH have a wealth of
 cross-disciplinary training and internships for all students across Scotland in Arts and
 Humanities subjects to design and run their own events, with generous funding (awarded by
 competitive application). Our PGRs have taken advantage of such opportunities, for example
 through an interdisciplinary PG conference ‘Cultivating Perspectives on Landscape’, in
 November 2017. Under the guidance of the DoPG, St Andrews PGRs have taken lead roles in
 organising these conferences, for which funding is available through the School’s Research
 Committee budget.

 The quality of our graduating PGRs is attested in their track-record of securing postdoctoral
 funding, fixed-term and permanent positions in the profession since 2014 including at Jesus
 College Oxford, Leiden, Tübingen, the BSA, University of Cyprus, KU Leuven, Frankfurt, Florida
 State, Institutum altioris latinitatis Rome, Utrecht, Kent and Cape Town. Non-academic
 destinations for our research graduates since 2014 have included secondary education, and the
 legal and financial sectors.

 Our MLitt programme has also been completely overhauled since 2014, partly with the goal of
 providing even more comprehensive training for future PhD study, through our redesigned core

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ‘Themes and Methods’ module. Our MLitt recruitment has expanded significantly, with 22
 students in 2018-19, 17 in both 2019-20 and 2020-21, drawn from Europe, North and South
 America, Australasia and Asia. The School funds two scholarships per year.

 2.3 Equality and Diversity
 The School is committed to equality for all and this commitment was recognised by the award of
 Athena Swan Bronze status in 2019. It supports flexible-working patterns to enable parents and
 carers to further their careers. Approximately 20% of current academic staff have formal flexible-
 working arrangements written into their contracts. Where possible we seek to timetable research
 activities such as conferences and workshops outside weekends and within ‘core hours’ of
 10am-4pm etc. From 2019, the School has paid for a crèche facility for childcare if such is
 required by any colleagues, PGs or speakers at a seminar. We seek to make opportunities for
 involvement in research and impact activity as accessible as possible; the School’s E&D officers
 are on the Management Committee ex officio. E&D data has been gathered in our preparation
 for REF, and has helped to shape our procedures: e.g. gender balance is a factor in determining
 membership of the School’s research committee, and appointments to the 8-person reading
 group which advises the HoS and DoR on output selection for REF submission. One of our other
 Athena Swan projects involves a nationwide investigation, jointly with several other UK Classics
 departments, into the reasons for gender imbalance in applications for permanent posts. The
 University’s Head of E&D regularly updates all colleagues on relevant new legislation and policy
 at the Staff Council. All new colleagues are required to undertake Equality and Diversity training
 via an online course provided by OSDS.




 Three recent conferences organised at the School have raised awareness and promoted
 discussion of key E&D issues. ‘Gender Fluidity in the Ancient World’ (2017) and ‘Race and the
 Classics’ (2019, see figure above) featured external and local speakers, combining research
 papers with talks and roundtables on the role of E&D issues in teaching practice. The second
 event, keyed to Black History Month, exemplifies the School’s commitment to discussing issues
 of race and intersectionality, and to cultivating a more inclusive and diverse community beyond
 the gender remit of Athena Swan. Both events attracted wide attention and lively and informed
 delegates, with extensive contribution from UGs as well as PGs and staff. During the Covid
 crisis, the school co-organised the online forum ‘Towards a more inclusive Classics’, attended by
 160 participants from 12 countries.


 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Income
 Since REF2014, we have increased our research income more than twofold to now in excess of
 £1.5M. The more significant grants are:


  Brock        Leverhulme ECF                                     2019-21          £93,000
               Loeb Classical Library Foundation Fellowship       2019-20          £18,683

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Geue          BA Postdoctoral Fellowship                          2015 – 2018       £302,343
  Harrison      Leverhulme RF                                       2018 – 2019       £52,716
  Hesk          Leverhulme RF                                       2016              £41,223
  JKönig        Leverhulme RF                                       2017-21           £186,123
  Lampinen      Royal Society Newton Fellowship                     2015-17           £87,000
  Lavan         Leverhulme RF                                       2014 – 2015       £34,984
                AHRC Leadership Fellowship                          2017 – 2019       £149,063
                Leverhulme Prize                                    2018              £100,000
  Long          Leverhulme RF                                       2014 – 2015       £34,485
  Manioti       Leverhulme ECF                                      2014 - 2017       £87,000
  Pezzini       BA Mid-Career Fellowship                            2019-2020         £119,218
                Loeb Classical Library Foundation Fellowship        2019-2020         £23,426
  Smith         Leverhulme RF                                       2017-20           £173,897
  Sweetman      Leverhulme Senior RF                                2015-2018         £109,282
                Leventis Exchange Fellowship                        2015              £133,480
                Leventis Impact Funding                             2016, 2019        £50,126
                Leventis Postdoctoral Fellowship                    2020-22           £105,633

 [Pezzini was also offered a Leverhulme award, which he had to decline to accept the BA
 Fellowship].

 We have secured smaller grant awards from the following funding bodies:, Alexandria
 Foundation, BA/Leverhulme Small Research Grants, Durham Visiting Fellowship, Classical
 Association, Fritz Thyssen Stiftung Grant, Honeyman Foundation, Institute of Classical Studies,
 AHRC, University of Zurich, Carnegie Trust, Scots Philosophical Club, Gerda Henkel
 Foundation, Society of Antiquaries, and the Mind Association.

 3.2 Internal Funding
 The annual research allowance for individual members of staff (permanent and fixed-term) has
 increased by 50% to £1500. Typically, this is used to cover costs for attendance at conferences
 and fieldwork, but it can be used for other research-related purposes.

 The School’s Research Committee, headed by the DoR, administers a budget for research/
 impact activities and all colleagues are encouraged to apply. From 2018-19, thanks to an
 injection of resources from the University, this budget was doubled to £16k pa. The School’s
 Research Committee assesses applications on a rolling basis, and is able to respond very
 quickly with decisions and/or requests for further information. Typically, this budget funds or
 provides seed-corn funding for conferences/workshops at St Andrews, but it can also be used
 for other research activities, such as lab costs and fieldwork etc. Research Committee tends to
 cap applications at £1500, and requires applicants to demonstrate what other income streams
 they are seeking to approach for funding: for example, Brock secured funding from the Loeb
 Classical Library Foundation and from the School of Classics to undertake coring in the city of
 Rome in 2019.

 In 2018-19, in recognition that many colleagues are now involved in research with visual
 material, the Research Committee established a separate fund specifically for costs of
 publication of illustrations; the budget is set at £2000 per annum and each application is capped
 at £500.

 Since 2017, to assist with impact activity, we have secured six grants of £2500-10000 from the
 University’s central Knowledge Exchange/Impact Fund.

 Infrastructure and facilities

 3.3 Operational
 The School of Classics is in Swallowgate, a large 19th-century building. As a single site for all
 colleagues, PGs and teaching, it encourages a sense of collaboration and well-being in the

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 workplace. It has three teaching rooms (one of which houses the Bridges Collection), three
 rooms with desk space for PGRs (see below), and a two-room class library. The Bridges
 Collection contains a wide range of Cypriot artefacts dating from the Bronze Age to Byzantine
 periods. This collection is regularly used for teaching and is the basis of one of our Impact Case
 studies and a SGSAH-funded PhD project (see figure below).




 The class library holdings are a good teaching collection, with full sets of primary texts, reference
 materials and essential secondary reading. Swallowgate is the regular venue for conferences
 and seminars; the teaching rooms are ideal for conference numbers of 25, and the library hosts
 tea/coffee breaks and buffet lunches.

 3.4 Scholarly
 Library facilities constitute a crucial resource in attracting the best postgraduate students and
 visiting scholars. In recent years, the University Library has been completely refurbished on a
 rolling programme and more ‘stack’ storage for library holdings has been made available. In a
 difficult financial climate since 2014, we have secured modest growth in Classics purchases,
 with approximately £140k spent on print and electronic holdings in Classics since then,
 excluding journals, which are covered by a separate budget. All colleagues are encouraged to
 recommend purchases within their own research specialisms. The University also operated a
 resource enhancement fund ring-fenced for specific bids for substantial spending on live
 research areas with particular needs and for new resources that are on a scale too large to be
 covered by our day-to-day library budget. Classics benefited extensively from awards from this
 fund.

 3.5 Organisational

 Conferences
 We have a thriving programme of conferences and colloquia (usually 6-9 per year: for a full list
 see www.st-andrews.ac.uk/classics/events/archive/). The scale and purpose of these events
 varies, from focused work-in-progress to analytical workshops to large-scale international
 conferences extending over more than a day or two. We have invested a significant proportion of
 administrative time in supporting this activity, and now a greater percentage of our annual
 operational budget is dedicated to research activities than was the case in the last REF cycle.
 We have appointed a professional services colleague (part-time) to specialise in support for
 conference activity, and this is paying dividends by reducing the time academic colleagues
 spend on administration. In addition to the many conferences/workshops hosted at St Andrews
 for participants numbering 15-30, we have also held a few much larger-scale conferences,
 namely: ‘Roman Military Equipment’ (2016) featuring c.100 delegates; ‘The 11th Celtic
 Conference in Classics’ (2018), featuring 320 delegates; and with Mediaeval History, the
 interdisciplinary British Academy conference ‘Sovereignty: a Global Perspective’ (2019),
 featuring 50 delegates (the first British Academy conference to be held outwith London).

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Seminars
 Our prestigious research seminar, which has now been running for c. 45 years, is a weekly
 highlight for the School, both for featuring a wide variety of presentations that lead the field in
 current research and for being a high-profile focal point for the School’s collegiality and
 community. Colleagues attend from many other Schools and from different Universities.
 Nominations for seminar speakers (and other visitors) are invited from all colleagues: across the
 seminar series, which runs every week throughout the two semesters of the academic year, we
 secure an appropriate balance between classical sub-disciplines and genders. When possible,
 we try to convene an international range of speakers: since 2014, as well as from the UK, the
 seminar series has featured speakers from Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Cyprus,
 Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Israel, Italy, the Netherlands, New
 Zealand, Poland, Turkey, and the USA. Costs for travel, accommodation and hospitality for
 speakers are covered by a fund allocated within the School’s operational budget. To encourage
 dialogue between our seminar speakers and our PG community, we also pay for two students to
 attend the dinner after each seminar.

 Also weekly, our PG research seminar provides a highly useful platform for doctoral work-in-
 progress presentations; and the CLAS (see below) has a further work-in-progress seminar,
 typically with three or four meetings per semester.

 During Covid, the School’s flagship seminar series was conducted entirely online; we developed
 protocols for chairing these sessions to accommodate the marked increase in numbers of
 people attending. Also during Covid, Harrison introduced the ‘Herodotus Helpline’ online seminar
 series, with 27 seminars to date, often with more than 50 delegates in attendance.

 To enhance the accessibility and inclusivity of our academic events, through our E&D officers we
 alert the Chairs of all our conferencing and seminar activities to the best practices in nurturing
 scholarly exchange as identified by the latest social science research,

 Research Centres
 Our four research centres are subject to the University’s standard review processes to ensure
 their ongoing relevance and vitality; the Centres reflect distinctive research clusters within the
 School and across the University; for example, across the four Centres, we work with research
 colleagues in History, Divinity, Modern Languages, English, Art History, Film Studies, Computer
 Science and Geography. Each Centre is run by a director who oversees activities, manages an
 operations budget and coordinates the Centre’s Annual Lecture, given by a distinguished visitor.
 To varying extents and in different ways, the Centres promote interdisciplinary approaches;
 affiliation to the Centres extends to staff and emeriti, PGRs, colleagues in other Schools in the
 University and, particularly in the case of the Centre for the Public Understanding of Greek and
 Roman Drama (CPUGRD), to external practitioners.

 Centre for Study of The Annual Lecture for the Centre has been given by Stephen
 the Literature of the Harrison (Oxford 2017); Alessandro Schiesaro (Manchester 2019);
 Roman Empire          Alessandro Barchiesi (New York 2020, postponed). Conferences the
                       Centre has hosted include ‘Unspeaking Volumes: Absence in Latin
 Director: Alice       Texts’ (edited volume now under contract with CUP) and ‘Revolt
 König                 Narratives in the Roman Tradition’. Two large-scale projects have
                       extended over several years: ‘Visualising War: Interplay between
                       battle narratives in antiquity’ and ‘Literary and Cultural Interactions in
                       the Roman Empire’ which was based around a series of four
                       conferences and led to two collected volumes.
 Centre for Late       The CLAS was formed in 2016: its Annual Lectures (since 2020
 Antique Studies       known as the Jill Harries Lecture) have been given by Bryan Ward-
                       Perkins (Oxford 2016); Michele Salzmann (California Riverside
 Director: Carlos      2017), Silvia Orlandi (La Sapienza 2018); Sebastian Schmidt-Hoffner
 Machado               (Tübingen 2019); Claire Sotinel (Paris 2020, postponed). The CLAS

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                       also runs a well-attended work-in-progress seminar, featuring papers
                       from colleagues in the School, the wider faculty and from other
                       institutions, including overseas. Conferences the Centre has hosted
                       include ‘Praising Constantine’; ‘Regionalism and Integration in the
                       Later Roman Empire’; ‘God and the gods in Late antiquity – where
                       next?’ and ‘Epigraphy and Literature in Late Antiquity and the Middle
                       Ages’ (jointly with La Sapienza’). A long-term collaboration with
                       Tübingen began in 2019 with a postgraduate conference at St
                       Andrews.
 Centre for Ancient Formed in 2016 as the Centre for Landscape Studies, this was
 Environmental         reorganised under its current title in 2020. The Annual Lectures have
 Studies               been given by Athanasios Vionis (Cyprus 2016), Katharine
                       Earnshaw (Exeter 2017), Elena Isayev (Exeter 2019) and David
 Director:             Mattingly (Leicester 2020). Conferences the Centre has hosted
 Andrea Brock          include ‘Mountains in Antiquity’ and ‘Religious space and topography
                       of the Cyclades’ JKönig and Sweetman have both had major projects
                       sponsored by Leverhulme which are embedded in the Centre.
 Centre for the Public The CPUGRD was launched in 2018 and essentially harnesses the
 Understanding of      School’s wide range of relevant outreach and public engagement
 Ancient Drama         activities in classical drama; typically, the Centre engages with
                       school groups, theatre audiences, schoolteacher CPD events,
 Director: Jon Hesk practitioners and authors, and amateur and professional theatres
                       and companies. The CPUGRD Annual Lectures have been given by
                       Martin Revermann (Toronto 2019) and Isobel Torrance (Aarhus
                       2020).

 Impact infrastructure
 We have expanded our impact activity by cultivating a more collaborative approach. In
 REF2014, for example, each of our two case studies was essentially undertaken and realised by
 a single colleague. That structure put strain on individuals and rendered the system vulnerable.
 While lead individuals remain fundamental to our impact activity, our strategic drive towards
 collaborative activity has yielded both collegiate and academic advantages, whereby the input
 and outreach are more diverse and the impact itself is richer. We now habitually operate with
 wider teams composed of other colleagues, including those from other schools, UG and PG
 students, and external parties. REF is only one prism through which our Impact activity is
 generated. In 2019, the school’s annual Awayday was dedicated to Impact; this was the latest in
 a series of ongoing information and experience sharing exercises, designed both to disseminate
 knowledge about activities across the School, and to consolidate awareness among colleagues
 of the opportunities there are for them for contributions. In some cases, we have been thinking
 primarily about the development of impact activity over the coming 5-10 years rather than
 focussing on REF2021 as an ‘endpoint’.




                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School is investing very substantially in Impact support; in addition to the expanded
 Professional Services team, other colleagues have been appointed with Impact support and
 delivery as a major part of their role. In 2019 we appointed Dr Alex Imrie on a part time basis as
 an executive officer for our research Impact to enrich its potential for cultural engagement. Imrie
 coordinates aspects of our Impact activities through the Classical Association of Scotland and
 the Scottish Qualifications Agency. Leah Neiman was employed for 6 months in 2019-20 to work
 on Archaeology in the Community for the Through the Glass Darkly ICS (see figure above); a
 related current project is a SGSAH funded PhD on archaeology and dementia.

 Exchanges and Visiting Scholars
 In addition to exchange schemes with Columbia, William and Mary, and the University of
 Cyprus, we have Erasmus exchanges with Padua, Leiden, Heidelberg, Köln and Groningen. We
 have established close collaborative relationships for research and supervision at PG level with
 the department of Ancient History at Tübingen and the Department of Classics at La Sapienza.
 The Tübingen collaboration featured a plenary PG and ECR conference at St Andrews in 2019;
 a 2020 version at Tübingen was postponed but will be rearranged.

 Distinguished Visiting Scholar (DVS)
 Our DVS scheme is now an established annual highlight in our research calendar. The scheme,
 which the School funds, brings an outstanding international scholar to St Andrews over a full
 week for a series of seminars and workshops. After discussion within the School, scholars are
 identified and invited according to their own eminence in the field and the benefits of their
 scholarship to the School; this typically sees different sub-disciplines and research interests
 represented on an informal rotation. The DVS is accommodated in St Andrews throughout their
 stay and in addition to the more formal events of the week, spends time with colleagues and
 PGRs, discussing their work in progress and research interests. The DVS week is now intensely
 busy and rewarding. Since REF2014, the DVS roll has been as follows:




 Other visitors
 Covid restrictions necessitated the postponement of the high profile visits of Alessandro
 Barchiesi (New York) as one of the first award holders of the University’s new Global Fellowship
 (ILES, 2.7); of Alastair Blanshard (Queensland) as a Senior Global Fellow; and of Anthony Long
 (Berkeley) to deliver the University’s Irvine Lecture. We are in the process of rescheduling all
 three.

 Gianfranco Agosti (La Sapienza) was a British Academy Visiting Fellow 2018-9; with the Schools
 of Classics and Divinity he led an inter-disciplinary colloquium, ‘Epigraphy and Literature in the
 Imperial Age, Late Antiquity and the Middle Ages’ with an international field of speakers (see
 above CLAS).

 In addition, the School hosts on average around 10 visiting scholars each year, for periods
 ranging from a few weeks to a full year. Many of these scholars are on prestigious awards (for
 example Humboldt award, Chinese Government Scholarship, DAAD (Deutscher Akademischer
 Austauschdienst), Royal Irish Academy and Institut Universitaire de France scholarships. The
 consistent numbers of funded visitors to St Andrews is indicative of the School’s lively research
 networks. Typically, our visitors make use of the University’s library resources and contribute to

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the research environment by their participation in seminars and conferences, in some cases
 giving papers and pursuing research collaborations with staff in the School (for example, Agosti
 and Machado on ‘Epigraphy and Literature’ which will be published by Brepols; Long and Jordi
 Pia Comella (Sorbonne; Visiting Fellow 2019) are organising a series of conferences on ancient
 ethics and contemporary challenges).


 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 Collaborations
 Since 2014, the School has comprehensively nurtured and invested in existing and new
 collaborations. Our academic, practitioner and public collaborations are inclusive and forward-
 looking and are underpinned by a commitment to furthering the discipline.

 Academic Collaboration
 Our research partnerships range from small-scale projects involving one or more workshops or
 conferences and resulting in edited volumes, to much larger-scale multi-event collaborations, in
 some cases with associated funding. The School seeks to provide to colleagues the
 administrative support and resource to allow them to develop and lead collaborative research
 projects of ambitious scale and significance (ILES, 4.1). For example: AKönig’s project on
 ‘Literary Interactions’ in the Roman Empire has involved four conferences, two edited volumes
 published with CUP, and an extensive project website including a working-papers section; Rees’
 Panegyrici Latini project involves researchers from the UK, Ireland, the Netherlands and Spain,
 and features conferences, workshops and online collaboration; outputs include articles,
 conference papers and full-scale commentaries; AKönig and Wiater developed the
 interdisciplinary ‘Visualising War’ project, which involved four conferences and has an edited
 volume in preparation; JKönig’s Leverhulme-funded project on ‘Mountains in ancient Greek and
 Roman culture and their postclassical reception’ has employed one postdoctoral scholar and
 involved three conferences, featuring more than 40 international and interdisciplinary delegates,
 with an edited volume in preparation.

 Practitioner and Public collaborations
 The culture of collaboration outside academia is established across diverse areas of the
 School’s research, well beyond our Impact Case studies. For example, Sweetman and Coulston
 collaborate extensively with museums in the UK and beyond. The CPUGRD has been
 developing a series of collaborations with schools (Madras, St Andrews and Royal High
 Edinburgh) and theatre companies such as NMT and Company of Wolves. Sweetman has
 collaborated with the StAnza Poetry Festival on themes of Displacement and Exile. Petsalis-
 Diomidis’ project on Classical Marvels has involved working with local schools through a series
 of museum visits, tourist interviews exploring the culture of pilgrimage in the modern world, and
 work with artists and magicians. Hesk’s project on Ancient and Modern Political Rhetoric has
 involved a series of blog posts over several years bringing modern society into dialogue with
 ancient politics, especially with classical Athenian democratic culture. This led to a collaboration
 with our Students Union on Classics and Democracy. Several colleagues have ongoing
 relationships with TV and radio: e.g. multiple TV appearances by Coulston, and a series of
 appearances by AKönig and Halliwell on Radio 4’s In Our Time. Some colleagues have run
 research projects on pedagogical issues: for example, AKönig and Buckley’s project
 investigating the different needs of Latin language learners from different educational
 backgrounds in the first year of university has led to a research publication in JCT, and involved
 a series of events with schoolteachers and meetings with the Scottish government; Sweetman’s
 work on archaeology and early-years literacy has generated resources and professional
 development sessions for primary schoolteachers. AKönig and Pezzini have been involved as
 members of the Young Academy of Scotland (AK as co-chair for 2019 and 2020) in a series of
 initiatives designed to engage the Scottish government and other stakeholders in debating the
 future of humanities research in the UK and beyond.

 In 2014, the University acquired the Byre Theatre site in St Andrews (ILES, 2.8); comprising a
 main auditorium, studio theatre, meeting rooms, restaurant and bar, the Byre is the main cultural

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 venue in St Andrews. The School of Classics regularly uses the venue for collaborative
 engagement activities such as youth theatre workshops (e.g. on performing Greek choruses),
 student performances of classical plays and operas (e.g. Menaechmi, Oedipus Rex), public
 lectures (as pre-performance guidance), and panel discussions (e.g. on Classical and Modern
 democracy, and on Metaphors of Displacement).

 4.2 Research councils, advisory committees, research review panels.
 Our colleagues make sustained and wide-ranging contributions to service to the academy at
 national and international levels (including Ireland, Belgium, Germany, Cyprus, Brazil, the
 Netherlands and Canada). Smith was appointed Executive Chair of the AHRC in 2020. Buckley
 and Machado sit on the SGSAH board. Halliwell, Long, Machado, Petsalis-Diomidis, Harrison
 and Sweetman are members of advisory committees like the British Academy, AHRC and
 review panels for the Irish Research Council, Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council
 Canada, Leverhulme, DAAD, and the Netherlands Institute for Advanced Study.

 4.3 Editorial positions
 More than 1/3 of our colleagues give their time to 32 different editorial roles. Rees is
 commissioning editor for CR, Long edits Phronesis, and Lavan is Reviews Editor for JRS. Long
 is co-editor of Key Themes in Ancient Philosophy and Harrison is a series editor for Duckworth
 (now Bloomsbury) for Companions to Greek and Roman Tragedy, Archaeological Histories,
 Classical Essays and Ancient Religions and Cognition. Machado is Series Editor for Amsterdam
 University Press: The Social Worlds of Late Antiquity and the Early Middle Ages. Other
 colleagues are members of editorial boards representing a wide international variety of subject
 disciplines from long standing to innovative new series, including the Annual of the British
 School at Athens, Skenè, Talanta, the History of European Political and Constitutional Thought
 and the Journal of Cognitive Historiography.

 4.4 Other service
 Further indices of the scale and range of our service to the discipline since 2014 include our
 record of examining, refereeing, assessing and advising. For example, colleagues have served
 as external PhD examiners for more than 45 PhDs at over 30 Universities, in the UK, Europe
 and Australasia. We have acted as referees for article submissions to 65 scholarly journals
 worldwide and for monograph manuscripts submitted to 18 recognised University and academic
 presses in the UK, Europe and the USA. Colleagues have also served as referees for over 30
 promotion, tenure or senior appointments at 25+ Universities in the UK, Europe, Australasia and
 the USA. The professional advice of individual colleagues has been sought by 15+ research
 councils and funding agencies across the UK, Europe and Australasia; and Sweetman mentors
 a group of refugee academics on the Council for At-Risk Academics Syria Programme (Strand
 6).

 4.5 Fellowships, prizes and lectures
 Highlights of the professional recognition of our colleagues since 2014 include the appointment
 of Halliwell as FBA (2014) and as Fellow of the Fondazione Lorenzo Valla, Rome (2015): the
 Premio ‘Cultori di Roma’ was awarded to Smith in 2017 and a Leverhulme Prize to Lavan in
 2018. Also since 2014, colleagues in the School have served as distinguished speakers for more
 than 12 named events, such as the Stanford, Barron, West, Postgate and Axel Boethius
 lectures; and have given more than 150 lectures to non-UK institutions including 128 in Europe.




                                                                                         Page 16
