Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Institution: Queen Mary University of London

    Unit of Assessment: 9 Physics

    1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Overview

Since REF2014, QMUL’s School of Physics and Astronomy has undergone transformative
change: research income has increased very significantly, and we have attracted many
outstanding scientists with distinguished fellowships – making us home to the most UKRI Future
Leaders of any Physics department in England. Our building has undergone a complete renovation
and we have invested in our research infrastructure. Specifically:


            We have hosted 22 distinguished fellowships:                      Our annual average
        14 early-career (13 proleptic), 1 senior and 7 for existing           research award has
            staff, including 3 UKRI Future Leaders Fellows                  increased by over 20%
                            (see Section 2.1)                                  (see Section 3.1)


        We have completed a £12M               We have considerably
                                                                                  We now lead two
      renovation of our building (of         increased the number of
                                                                                   internationally
      which £3M for labs), including          research students (62%
                                                                                 renowned training
         new interaction areas and        increase p.a.), with dramatically
                                                                                      networks
          research infrastructure         improved four-year submissions
                                                                                 (see Section 4.1.3)
             (see Section 3.3)                    (see Section 2.3)


Improvements in key metrics since REF2014 include:1


                                                            REF2014                    REF2021

    Research income (total)                                  £18.5M                     £29.8M
    Research awards                                   £24.6M (£4.9M p.a.)         £41.5M (£5.9M p.a.)
    Income-in-kind
                                                       £1.3M (£260k p.a.)         £45.6M (£6.5M p.a.)
    (research council facilities)
    Staff numbers submitted for REF (in           Out of 48.8, 24 submitted in
                                                                                           48
    FTE)                                           UoA9 and 10 in UoA13b
    New appointments (in FTE)                                  15                         24.4
    Number of independent fellowships                          10                          22
    PhD awards                                            53 (10.6 p.a.)            120.2 (17.2 p.a.)
    Investment in building/infrastructure                    £6.5M                       £12M
                                                                                   Juno Champion +
    EDI status                                          Juno Practitioner
                                                                                  Athena SWAN silver


1
 10 academics from the School were submitted to UoA13b in REF2014. Unless indicated
otherwise, figures relating to REF2014 refer to the whole School irrespective of UoA.
                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The School is submitting 48 FTE academic staff, supported by 32 RAs, 7.5 academic-related staff,
5 technicians and 14.8 support staff. Research takes place across four distinct – but
interconnected – research centres: the Astronomy Unit (AU), Centre for Research in String
Theory (CRST), Particle Physics Research Centre (PPRC), and Centre for Condensed Matter
and Materials Physics (CCMMP – a new addition since REF2014, previously submitted within
UoA13b). These centres have played a key role in numerous high-profile scientific success stories,
from the discovery of the nearest exoplanet to the Solar System, Proxima b, to directing United
Nations policy on nuclear waste storage. Our research is published in preeminent journals,
with 348 papers in Astrophysical Journal Letters, JCAP, JHEP, Nature, Nature
Astronomy/Materials/Physics, Physical Review Letters, Science, or Science Advances.

1.2 Research and impact strategy: this REF period and beyond

Our REF2014 research vision aimed at increasing the quality, volume and impact of our
research, and our strategy has proven successful. Building on this, we contribute to our
University’s 2030 strategy to carry out distinctive, world-leading research – both applied and
curiosity-driven – that brings lasting social, cultural and economic impact. To achieve this, we…

   1. …enhance our research base by hiring high-calibre researchers
      We have recruited 13 exceptional early-career fellows on proleptic appointments (see
      Table 1); attracted senior figures with outstanding research profiles (Green FRS and Perry);
      and appointed staff with expertise spanning several of our centres (Baker, Blumenschein,
      Cremonesi, Vegh and White) to increase the interdisciplinarity of our work and
      strengthen links between these research centres. Supporting fellows by making
      proleptic appointments will remain a pillar of our strategy. Expanding the neutrino
      group will also be a priority for the next REF.

   2. … work to increase and diversify our income
      Alongside enhancing our STFC research income, we will continue to seek – as we have
      already successfully done – funding from other sources (see Figure 1 below). We run
      writing retreats and sandpits to encourage innovative thinking, organise grant-writing
      training for all staff (including bespoke early-career sessions), and horizon-scan for new
      grant opportunities.


                REF2014                             REF2021
                 £24.6M                              £41.5M

                           8.5%                              7.1%
                                  16.4
                                                                    10.5%
                                   %                                            EPSRC
                                                                      2.7%
                                    1.8%                                        EU

                                     0.4%                                       Other
                                              54.6%                    9.6%     Other RC/UKRI
                72.7%               0.1%
                                                                                Royal Society
                                                                    15.5%       STFC




       Figure 1. Total research award value by funder.

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      As a measure of success so far, the School has seen a sustained increase in awarded
      grants (from £2.4M in the first REF year to £12.7M in 2019/20, see Figure 4); hosted 22
      Individual Fellowships from the ERC, Royal Society (including significant top-up funding),
      Royal Academy of Engineering, STFC and UKRI (Future Leaders Fellowships/FLFs); and
      leads two internationally renowned flagship collaborations (ITN SAGEX, PI Travaglini, €4M;
      EPSRC-funded DCE-CDT, PI Rizvi, £1.6M; see Section 4.1.3).

   3. …are always pushing interdisciplinary research
      We strive to work beyond the traditional boundaries of physics – applying string theory
      methods to computational linguistics, for instance, or using machine learning methods to
      model air pollution in Mexico. Much of this work is accomplished in interdisciplinary centres
      within QMUL such as the Materials Research Institute (MRI) and Institute for Applied Data
      Science (IADS) (see Section 3.3.1). Such innovation has led us to partner with
      prestigious consortia such as the EPSRC Networking Centre of Advanced Materials for
      Integrated Energy (CAM-IES); expand a collaboration between CCMMP and PPRC on
      the design of organic semiconductor radiation detectors and bent silicon sensors for particle
      physics applications and semiconductor-based neutron particle detectors for border
      security (funded by the Atomic Weapons Establishment Ltd. (AWE) and STFC); receive
      funding from the Global Challenges Research Fund; and be invited to present at
      industry-facing events such as CogX. We encourage close collaboration between our
      Centres via funded joint equipment bids, our School Colloquium programme, and
      interdisciplinary PhD training, and offer bespoke industry secondments for PhD students
      through our training networks (see Section 4.1.3).

To achieve lasting impact, we…

   4. …address challenges that are high priorities for industry and society
      From the very beginning of our research planning process, impact is top priority – as
      reflected in our chosen case studies: Saturn, Radiation, Exoplanets, and Schools.
      To magnify the impact of our work, we contribute unique expertise to international
      collaborations, from the NASA-ESA Cassini mission (Saturn) to the UK’s flagship
      molecular dynamics simulation software DL_POLY (Radiation), and target impact in the
      broadest possible sense, with beneficiaries ranging from private enterprise (Exoplanets)
      to intergovernmental organisations such as the International Atomic Energy Agency
      (Radiation), school students (Schools), and the general public (Saturn). Beyond these case
      studies, our industrial contacts span sectors including data science, financial
      services, technology, museums, government/policy bodies, oil and gas and logistics,
      and have given rise to Innovate UK Knowledge Transfer Partnerships. We recently
      launched the School’s first successful spin-off company, Chromosol Ltd – a winner of
      the prestigious Royal Society of Chemistry Emerging Technologies competition (enabling
      technologies, October 2020).
      In 2020 we formed a multidisciplinary radiation detector group to focus on applications
      of radiation to fundamental science and to society. Technology required for precision
      measurements of the Higgs boson can be used in the nuclear industry as part of the UK
      and global strategy for achieving a balanced energy portfolio for a carbon-neutral future,
      and for medical applications. As part of our future strategy to expand multidisciplinary
      research, we aim to transform this newly formed group into a recognised global centre of
      excellence in the next REF period, generating impact from our existing core competency.

   5. …invest in public engagement
      Our full-time Public Engagement Officer has designed a bespoke outreach strategy to
      maximise the efficacy of our work (see Section 4.4.1). The QMUL Press Office works
                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      with academics to ensure our major discoveries (e.g. Proxima b) receive large-scale
      international media attention; the School has a well-attended evening lecture series for the
      general public and science journalists; and academics regularly contribute to high-profile
      media such as the BBC, The Guardian and New Scientist (e.g. Berman, Murray, Spence).
      Going forward, we will formulate an outreach and schools-targeting strategy that
      effectively utilises our resources, embedding outreach at all levels of the School.
      Identifying schools that would benefit from our engagement will form the basis of the
      expansion of our outreach.

Finally, we…

   6. …embed equality, diversity and inclusivity (EDI) in everything we do
      The School holds Juno Champion and Athena Swan Silver awards, and EDI is a
      standing item on the agenda of all School committees. To maintain a safe, professional and
      inclusive working environment, our dedicated EDI committee oversees key processes such
      as recruitment, career progression and promotion, allocation of management and
      administrative responsibilities, and flexible working and parental leave. We have pioneered
      a ‘Parental Leave+’ scheme, guaranteeing academics a PDRA to maintain their research.
      Looking ahead, we are leading new institutional-level initiatives to attract BAME
      students into research career pipelines, including: mentored research internships for
      undergraduate BAME students; revising PhD application processes to recognise
      competencies as well as qualifications; and launching pre-application workshops to
      overcome self-confidence barriers.

   7. …support openness and integrity
      The School supports open-research principles, creating publicly accessible codes, tools
      and data repositories. All research papers are publicly accessible via the QMRO
      database, and the arXiv and SCOAP3 repositories. This open environment feeds into our
      wider work – for example, PPRC uses CERN Open Data for GCSE and A-level outreach
      work and undergraduate teaching activities, and the UK HepData repository for data
      archival. Our research integrity (mentoring, code of conduct) is safeguarded by our
      comprehensive peer review of grant applications, our Graduate Degree Committee,
      university level processes (see REF5a, Section 2) and is also underpinned by our
      membership of (inter)national grant panels and learned societies (see Section 4.2.3).
      Highlights of publicly accessible outputs include:

           AU       Placed N-body simulation code gevolution on GitHub for public access
                    Made CamCASP tool, for modelling intermolecular interactions, open access
                    and licensed it to over 60 commercial groups; developed and distributed
        CCMMP
                    DL_POLY code, the flagship code for simulating molecular dynamics, to over
                    4,200 users worldwide (840 UK) with support from several EPSRC grants
                    Launched amplitudes.org, an open repository of theoretical results and tools
         CRST
                    in scattering amplitude calculations, and the ongoing legacy of SAGEX
                    Made all published measurements available on the HEPData repository;
         PPRC       implemented new machine learning tools in the open-source ROOT data
                    analysis framework used universally in particle physics




                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Delivery of strategy

The School Research Committee provides leadership, monitoring, annually evaluates the above
goals, and identifies key infrastructure and equipment needs. It is chaired by our Director of
Research (Travaglini) and includes a dedicated Research Manager (post created in 2017), Director
of Impact, Group Heads, Director of the MRI, Director of Graduate Studies, Head of School, School
Manager and two EDI representatives. The Director of Research is also a member of the School’s
Senior Executive Group, ensuring that decision-making is informed by research priorities. Our
Research and Graduate Degree Committees ensure that best practice is shared between
Research Centres.

1.3 Research centres: strategy and objectives

The Astronomy Unit (AU)

The AU comprises three groups – Cosmology, Planetary Systems and Space Plasma Physics –
that address some of the most topical questions in astronomy, including two of the STFC’s three
key Science Challenges in Frontier Physics:

     How did the Universe begin, and how       How do stars and planets form and develop and how
                is it evolving?                      do they support the existence of life?
                 Cosmology                       Planetary Systems, Space Plasma Physics



    Academic staff: 16.1                              PDRAs: 32 (49 years)
    PhDs completed: 22.1                              Income-in-kind: £2M
    Articles: 763                                     Citations: 21,459
                                             Membership
                              2.3P, 2R, 4SL, 1L, 6.8 fellows (all proleptic)2
                                                                                Space Plasma
                             Cosmology                Planetary Systems
                                                                                Physics
                                                      Murray (0.3FTE),
    Professors:                                                                 Burgess
                                                      Nelson
                             Clarkson (Director),
    Readers:
                             Malik
    Senior Lecturers:        Clifton, Sutherland      Agnor                     Tsiklauri

    Lecturers:               Bull

                             Baker (RS URF, SL)       Gillen (Winton, L)
                             Mulryne (0.8 FTE, RS     Haworth (RS DHF, L)
    Fellowship holders:                                                         Chen (STFC ERF, L)
                             URF, SL), Pourtsidou     Paardekooper (RS
                             (FLF, R)                 URF, SL)
                                    Research grant awards: £14.2M

The Cosmology group has a strong record in relativistic cosmology. Mulryne and Malik study the
early Universe; Clifton, Clarkson and Baker study cosmological structure formation and extended

2
    Abbreviations in the group tables: P=Professor, R=Reader, (S)L = (Senior) Lecturer.
                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
theories of gravity. Recent appointments bring expertise in observations and data analysis:
Pourtsidou and Bull, who play leading roles in the Euclid satellite mission, the SKA (Square
Kilometre Array) and precursor telescopes (e.g. HERA, MeerKAT). Baker leads two working
groups within the LISA (Laser Interferometer Space Antenna) Consortium, ensuring direct
involvement in the new field of gravitational wave astronomy. The tight-knit focus and range of
skills within the group is an incubator for collaborations across theory and observations.

Planetary Systems focusses on solar and extra-solar planets. Murray has elucidated Saturn’s
complex ring system via his work on NASA’s Cassini mission. Haworth, Nelson and Paardekooper
simulate how protoplanetary discs and planets form and evolve, leading modelling efforts for ESA's
PLATO (PLAnetary Transits and Oscillations of stars) mission. Agnor models satellite dynamics
and formation, and Haworth provides expertise on observations from ALMA (Atacama Large
Millimeter Array). Gillen is strongly involved in the NGTS (Next-Generation Transit Survey) and
TESS (Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite). The group has an exceptional record in exoplanet
detection: Anglada-Escudé led the discovery of a planet in the habitable zone of Proxima Centauri,
the Sun’s nearest stellar neighbour, and was consequently named one of Time’s top-100 most
influential people of 2017, and a Nature’s top-10 scientist of 2016.

The Space Plasma Physics group focuses on the solar wind and solar magnetohydrodynamics
(MHD). Researchers study kinetic and MHD phenomena (Tsiklauri), solar wind turbulence and
shocks (Burgess; member of ESA’s Solar Orbiter team), and perform observations and data
analysis (Chen; member of the FIELDS instrument team on NASA’s Parker Solar Probe).

Research strategy

A strategic priority since REF2014 has been to reinvigorate the AU by appointing talented
academics, enhancing areas of existing strength and introducing complementary expertise.
The AU...

 …concentrates world-
                                                      …is investing in
  leading research in                                                       …strives for increased
                                                      leadership and
 Cosmology, Planetary        …supported this                                   collaboration in
                                                         expanding
    Systems, Space          strategy by hiring                                  academia and
                                                      participation in
     Plasmas, with           8 early-career                                  industry in areas of
                                                   international priority
    complementary          researchers (7 with                                High-Performance
                                                   experiments such as
    programmes in              fellowships).                                  computing and Big
                                                    Euclid, PLATO, VRO
 theory, observations,                                                              Data.
                                                       and the SKA.
   and data analysis.

The Centre for Condensed Matter and Materials Physics (CCMMP)

The CCMMP has a vibrant, interdisciplinary research programme in experimental, computational,
and theoretical condensed matter and materials physics. It leads the cross-faculty Materials
Research Institute (MRI, see Section 3.3.1) and tackles three major research areas, with many
researchers addressing several: Materials for Energy and the Environment, Atomistic Material
Structure, and Molecular and Quantum Systems. It is expanding into Theoretical Ecology,
supported by a large recent collaborative NERC grant (Trachenko).




                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    Academic staff: 10.6 FTE                          PDRAs: 22 (26.9 years)

    PhDs completed: 51.1                              Income-in-kind: £8.5M

    Articles: 275                                     Citations: 4201

                                             Membership
                                  3.6P, 2R, 3SL, 1L, 1 fellow (proleptic)

    Professors:                                       Dove3 (0.1 FTE), Drew (Director), Dunstan (0.5
                                                      FTE), Gillin, Trachenko
    Readers:                                          Baxendale, Dennis, Phillips4

    Senior Lecturers:                                 Kreouzis, Sapelkin

    Lecturers:                                        Misquitta

    Fellowship holders:                               Mol (UKRI FLF, R4)

                           1 experimental support engineer, 1 research officer

                                     Research grant awards: £3.8M


Materials for Energy and the Environment: Funded by four EPSRC grants, the group explores
organic, inorganic and hybrid materials with technological applications: carbon nanostructures for
batteries (Drew), photovoltaics (Dennis, Kreouzis) and thermoelectrics (Baxendale); molecular and
framework materials for barocalorics (Phillips); and materials for nuclear waste encapsulation
(Trachenko), for which the Centre recently signed a research agreement with the International
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).

Atomistic Material Structure: From new functional materials to condensed matter theory, CCMMP
works to solve fundamental questions by combining simulations and experiments (Dove, Misquitta,
Phillips, Trachenko). We (Dove, Drew, Phillips, Sapelkin, Trachenko) intensively use – and are
disproportionately successful in being awarded beamtime from – major facilities including the
Diamond Light Source, ESRF, ILL, ISIS, PSI and ANSTO, and have led the design, construction
and/or commissioning of many instruments at central facilities (including D18 at Diamond Light
Source (Sapelkin), HIFI (Drew) and MERLIN at ISIS (Dove)). Simulation expertise ranges from all-
electron methods (Misquitta) to DFT (Dove, Phillips) and massive parallel molecular dynamics
simulations with very large and world record-breaking system sizes (Dove, Trachenko, Phillips).

Molecular and Quantum Systems: With a focus on carbon-based structures, we study topics
pertaining to organic materials, including the coupling of structural and electronic properties of
graphene in experiment (Dunstan) and theory (Misquitta); light-matter interactions in molecular
systems (Drew, Gillin); electronic structure (Misquitta); quantum tunnelling in graphene-based
devices (Mol); and radiation detectors (Kreouzis). Work has been funded by UKRI FLF and RAEng
fellowships (Mol), the ERC (Drew), venture capital (Gillin), the Chinese Education Ministry (Drew,
Gillin) and the AWE (Kreouzis).




3
    Not submitted for outputs but contributing to our environment.
4
    Promoted after REF period but application submitted within it.

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research strategy

The key aims of CCMMP’s strategy are to…
                           …expand into UKRI,
  …pursue research
                              GCRF and ISCF
    across discipline
                              priority areas –
     boundaries. We                                    …commercialise         …increase industry-
                           ‘Energy’, ‘Technology
   have hosted 3 MRI                                research using proof-       led research with
                             Touching Life’ and
    Fellows and 1 FLF                                   of-concept and             support from
                            ‘Tackling the Plastic
      working at the                                 industry funding. Our     InnovateUK grants
                            Problem’. Highlights
    physics-chemistry-                                 spin-off company       and host Knowledge
                              include portable
    materials science                                 Chromosol (Gillin) is          Transfer
                              devices for rapid
   interface, all now in                               valued at £1.6M.           Partnerships.
                           pathogen detection in
  permanent academic
                             developing nations
         positions.
                                    (Mol).

The Centre for Research in String Theory (CRST)

Building on an exceptional history of achievement and discovery, the CRST has long held an
outstanding reputation in String Theory; and has emerged as a leading centre in modern scattering
amplitudes, a rapidly growing area at the heart of high-energy physics. It has hired four early-
career and two mid-career researchers, all producing pioneering work, and two renowned senior
professors (formerly at the University of Cambridge): Green FRS (since 2016, a co-inventor of
superstring theory, former Lucasian Professor of Mathematics, Milner Breakthrough Prize) and
Perry (since 2019), cementing the centre as one of the leading UK theory groups. CRST focuses
on two key areas: Scattering Amplitudes and String Theory (both intimately linked to STFC key
Science Challenges).

  Academic staff: 13.4 FTE               PDRAs: 10 (14.8 years)

  PhDs completed: 17                     Income-in-kind: N/A

  Articles: 256                          Citations: 8,037

                                           Membership
                                   5.4P, 3R, 5 fellows (4 proleptic)

                                         Scattering Amplitudes            String Theory

  Professors:                            Brandhuber (Director),           Berman, Green FRS
                                         Spence, Travaglini               (0.2FTE), Perry (0.2FTE),
                                                                          Thomas
  Readers:                               White                            Ramgoolam, Russo

  Fellowship holders:                    Monteiro (RS URF, L), Wen        Buican (RS URF, SL),
                                         (RS URF)                         Papageorgakis (RS URF,
                                                                          R4), Vegh (STFC ERF, L)
                                   Research grant awards: £7.6M


CRST academics have made ground-breaking contributions to scattering amplitude research,
reimagining quantum field theory using amplitudes as universal building blocks. Our excellence is
evidenced by our leadership of the ITN SAGEX (see Section 4.1.3), “an Innovative Training
                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Network funded by the EU to train the next generation of world-leading scientists”. Recent
breakthroughs by CRST researchers include characterisation of the double copy for classical
solutions in gauge and gravity theories (Monteiro, White), pioneering formulations of amplitudes
using ambitwistor strings (Monteiro, Wen), deep mathematical structures of Higgs and gluon
amplitudes/form factors (Brandhuber, Spence, Travaglini) and string amplitudes (Green, Wen), and
applying amplitudes to gravitational waves (Brandhuber, Russo, Travaglini, White).

School researchers probe the foundations of string theory, M-theory, dualities and supersymmetry,
and have expanded their interests to include holography (Ramgoolam, Vegh), novel conformal field
theories in various dimensions (Buican, Papageorgakis), black-hole thermodynamics and the
information loss problem (Perry), and generalised geometry applied to M-theory (Berman). CRST
has made pioneering contributions in the construction of black-hole microstates (Russo) and in
opening the field of exceptional field theory (Berman).

Research strategy
Since 2014, the Centre has significantly expanded its expertise and breadth across a range of
topics with high international activity.

The CRST aims to…

                                                                                     …forge
     … strengthen core      …hold international
                                                                              interdisciplinary
   research strands with   leadership roles, e.g.   …expand into new
                                                                            links to drive further
        further key             the €4M ITN         areas: double copy,
                                                                                  discovery in
      appointments          “SAGEX”, involving      gravitational waves,
                                                                             condensed matter,
    (4 RS URFs and 1        14 world-renowned         phenomenology,
                                                                               linguistics, data
     STFC ERF since           institutions and 7     pure mathematics.
                                                                            science and machine
           2014).            industrial partners.
                                                                                    learning.



Particle Physics Research Centre (PPRC)

The PPRC probes core challenges of fundamental physics though multidisciplinary collaborative
research, the development of novel detectors, scientific computing, and participation in renowned
international experiments. PPRC hosts two groups: ATLAS and Neutrino Physics.




                                                                                           Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    Academic staff: 8 FTE                            PDRAs: 25 (53.8 years)

    PhDs completed: 30                               Income-in-kind: £36.6M

    Articles:5 121                                   Citations: 9843

                                            Membership
                                  2P, 3R, 1SL, 1L, 1 fellow (proleptic)

    Professors:                                      Bevan4 (Director), Hobson (Head of School)

    Readers:                                         Bona4, Hays, Rizvi

    Senior Lecturers:                                Blumenschein

    Lecturers:                                       Zenz

    Fellowship holders:                              Cremonesi (UKRI FLF, L)

        2 physicist-programmers, 2 computing cluster-managers, 2 technical engineers, 1 senior
                                  research fellow, 1 applied physicist
                             Research grant awards 2014–2020: £11.6M


The ATLAS group (Bevan, Blumenschein, Bona, Hays, Rizvi, Zenz), draws on expertise in collider
physics, machine learning and data science to study Higgs boson physics, test the Standard
Model, and search for new physics. Our academics have been appointed to top-level convenorship
roles (Bona, Blumenschein) and sub-group convenor positions (Bevan, Bona, Rizvi).

The Neutrino Physics group (Bevan, Cremonesi, Hays, Di Lodovico, Katori, Wilson6) studies one of
the most elusive fundamental particles, focusing on neutrino oscillations (T2K), neutrino-less
double-beta decay (SNO+), tests of Lorentz symmetry (Ice Cube), CP violation (NOvA and the
forthcoming Hyper-Kamiokande and DUNE experiments). After graduating from PPRC in 2015,
Cremonesi returned as the holder of a UKRI FLF, strengthening the group with 2 PDRA positions.
One more permanent post is already planned for 2021.

Scientific computing and detector development: PPRC plays a leading role in scientific computing,
hosting one of the five major GridPP Tier-2 sites, holding membership of the GridPP Project
Management Board (Hays), and chairing the Resource, Scrutiny and Allocation Panel of the £16M
STFC IRIS Project (Hays). Detector development is a core activity for instrument design and
construction for our fundamental science programme. Increased multidisciplinary collaboration on
new technology development has led to a new detector development sub-group, inaugurated in
October 2020 (Bevan, Hays, Hobson, Kreouzis-CCMMP, Zenz). As a result of the Centre’s
experience in machine learning, PPRC has partnered with the National Crime Agency (Rizvi), and
received a GCRF grant for air quality forecasting in Mexico City (Bona). These activities tie into
postgraduate training run by the Data Intensive Science Centre and Data-Centric Engineering
Centres for Doctoral Training (DISCnet CDT and DCE-CDT).




5
    Including only those with a key contribution from PPRC academics, out of ~1850.
6
    Di Lodovico, Katori and Wilson left in 2019.
                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research strategy

The key aims of PPRC’s research strategy are to...

                                …build upon our
        …hire talented,
                               participation and        …seek increased
     diverse early-career                                                       … herald an era of
                                 leadership in            industrial and
      researchers. Since                                                         precision Higgs
                                 international          multidisciplinary
     2014 we have hired 3                                                        physics with the
                               experiments (e.g.       collaboration in the
         early-career                                                          ATLAS upgrade, and
                               ATLAS, DUNE and           areas of detector
      academics including                                                      expand our neutrino
                                NOvA) to pursue         development and
            1 FLF.                                                                   group.
                              fundamental science      scientific computing.
                                   discovery.



    2. People

2.1 School recruitment policy

Our recruitment strategy focuses on renewal and rejuvenation, as underpinned by our Research
Strategy (see Section 1.2). Thanks to our vibrant research environment and reputation, we have
been successful in attracting internationally renowned researchers: in the REF period,14 early-
career researchers joined our School with an advanced fellowship, 13 of whom with proleptic
appointments7. Furthermore, five existing staff members held fellowships8, one academic joined
with a senior fellowship, for a total of 22 distinguished fellowships (see Table 1). Our retention
of proleptic fellows is excellent, with only one moving to a senior position in their home country.

                             Drew (2012-17), Wilson (2011-2017; now Reader at KCL), Di Lodovico
      ERC Starting Grant
                             (2009-14; now Professor at KCL), Baker (2021-2026), Bull (2021-2025)

      Royal Academy of       Mol (2016-2021; holds UKRI FLF as of 2020, so RAEng fellowship has
        Engineering          been terminated).

                             Dorothy Hodgkin: Haworth (2019-2024); Brian Mercer: Homewood
                             (2015-2018; now retired); URF: Mulryne (2014-2023, 0.8FTE); Buican
        Royal Society
                             (2016-2023); Baker (2019-2023); Paardekooper (2013-2021); Monteiro
                             (2017-2021); Wen (2018-2022); Papageorgakis (2013- 2021)


     UKRI Future Leaders Pourtsidou (2019-2023), Mol (2020-2023), Cremonesi (2020-2024)


         STFC Ernest         Jimenez-Serra (2016-2020, now at the Instituto Nacional de Técnica
          Rutherford         Aeroespacial, Madrid); Chen (2017-2021); Vegh (2017-2022)

      Winton Exoplanet       Gillen (2018-21)

Table 1. Independent fellowships during the REF period. Underlined names denote proleptic
appointments, while names in italic denote awards received whilst employed at QMUL.


7
    Cremonesi was awarded a fellowship that starts after the census date before joining QMUL.
8
    In addition, Baker and Bull received fellowships within this REF period that begin early 2021.
                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We have also recruited substantially; despite some staff retiring (8 headcount or 5.9 FTE) or
moving to other UK/European positions (10 headcount or 9.8 FTE), the size of the School has
remained approximately stable, with 48.8 FTE in REF2014 (24 submitted to UoA9 and 10 to
UoA13b) and 48 FTE on REF2021 census date. New appointments comprise high-calibre mid-
career (Blumenschein, Clarkson, Shigemori, White) and senior staff (Green FRS, Hobson, Perry),
in addition to the independent fellows listed above. We proudly note that Cremonesi and
Papageorgakis obtained their PhDs at our School, fulfilling QMUL’s goal of developing our staff
and students to become world leaders in research and innovation.

2.2 Staff development

We prioritise the personal and career development of our staff, fully implementing the Concordat to
Support the Career Development of Researchers:

Development and support of our early-career staff

All early-career staff attend a professional development course, and receive a Postgraduate
Certificate in Academic Practice or Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy upon completion.
Teaching is gradually increased after appointment, with half loads during the first two years, and
PhD studentship funding is prioritised (typically 2 PhD students in the first 3 years). Senior
academics offer grant application advice, mentors offer guidance to help individuals integrate into
the School’s ethos, and we run formal and informal staff mentoring schemes, including for
promotion applications.

Development and support of staff at all career stages

Alongside general institutional policies – such as appraisals, discussed in (REF5a, Section 3), we
have a number of policies specifically tailored to support staff as they progress through their
careers. Highlights include:




               Staff             25%                        3X                       16
       development
          highlights       of academic time was       number of funded       academics took 144.5
                           ringfenced for School-         industrial          months of sabbatical
                              funded research       collaborations tripled   to drive collaboration,
                                                    (including with AWE        research and seek
                                                          & Google)                  funding




         40%                      69%                     24%                      72%

    of grant overheads       increase in grant      …and a further 24%          of 36 promotion
   committed to support    applications the first    increase the year         applications were
      PIs applying for      year after hiring our          after                successful after
      grants > £750k       Research Manager…                                       mentoring



                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
In addition, we offer various forms of critical support:

Grant-related support

   •   Through our workload allocation model, we reward staff for carrying out research, PhD
       supervision, achieving impact, and demonstrating leadership.

   •   Grant holders receive ‘Research Enabling Funds’ (10% of overheads, up to 40% for grants
       > £750k), enabling them to enhance their research and collaborations.

   •   Applicants shortlisted for fellowships are offered multiple rounds of mock interviews with
       panels including members of the School and, when appropriate, related Schools.

   •   Our research manager coordinates grant preparation and review and updates staff with
       grant opportunities.


Career development

   •   We support promotion applications via annual faculty-led workshops and guidance from
       appraisers and mentors, with strong success highlighted above. All fellows have reached
       the end of their fellowships as Senior Lecturers or Readers, demonstrating the
       effectiveness of our staff development policies. Overall, 4 academics were promoted to
       Professor, 8 to Reader and 14 to Senior Lecturer.

   •   We clearly communicate future employment prospects to staff on fixed-term contracts, and
       have a clear policy for sabbatical leave (including for fixed-term and part-time staff) planned
       to develop international collaborations, impact activity, new lines of research and
       associated funding. 16 academics took sabbatical leave during the REF period.

   •   Senior academics are encouraged to take on senior university positions (e.g. Spence was
       Vice-Principal Research for 2013-2019), complete external AdvanceHE courses in
       leadership, and attend QMUL’s ‘High-Potential Leadership Programme’. This has been
       attended by mid-career staff who have since held faculty leadership positions (e.g. Bevan,
       Deputy Director of the IADS; Drew, Director of the MRI; Rizvi, Deputy Dean for Research).


Industry-facing research

   •   Our Director of Impact assists with designing projects, writing grants, collecting evidence,
       drafting case-studies, and liaising with university-wide impact services. We also help staff in
       applying for EPSRC and STFC Impact Acceleration funds and advise on commercialisation
       and collaboration.

   •   By appointing a Director of Industrial Liaison (Bevan), we have almost tripled the number of
       funded collaborations in the School (29 new, including the AWE, National Crime Agency
       and Google), and driven a year-on-year increase in Impact Acceleration funding via
       industry-facing networking events organised in the School (with 5 in 2019).

2.3 PhD students

2.3.1 Recruitment

We have significantly increased the number of PhD students graduating per annum – from 10.6
in REF2014 to 17.2. Of the 133 students recruited in this REF period, 38 have been supported by
                                                                                         Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
overseas government funding from China, Mexico, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, or UAE. Our
funding streams (see Figure 2) have increased and diversified, including the STFC, EU Marie
Skłodowska-Curie ITN, Royal Society and QMUL Principal’s Studentships, and we have secured
external funding from e.g. the National Decommissioning Authority, AWE, and facilities such as
Diamond and ISIS. Our funding sources have increased in number from 14 to 21, largely due to
international studentships. We recruit PhD students globally in-line with QMUL and School EDI
policy9, and have 21 nationalities in our cohort.


                    60

                    50
     Studentships




                    40
                                                                              REF2014
                    30
                                                                              REF2021
                    20

                    10

                    0




Figure 2. PGR funding sources.

2.3.2 Training

We offer a wide range of diverse training opportunities for our students:

        •            Lectures and courses: Provided by our research centres, the QMUL Doctoral College and
                     academic development units (e.g. bespoke courses and graduate interdepartmental
                     training from the MRI), intercollegiate partners (e.g. advanced physics graduate lectures
                     from the University of London), SEPnet/GRADnet, and other European universities. Such
                     courses deliver up to 160 hours of specialist training in the first year and up to 60 in
                     subsequent years.

        •            Graduate networks: Comprehensive training is provided by the CDT DISCnet (AU and
                     PPRC), ITN SAGEX (CRST) and GRADnet (CRST and PPRC), see Section 4.1.3 for
                     details.

        •            Summer schools: We regularly organise and host international summer schools such as
                     the Mandelstam Theoretical Physics School in Durban, South Africa (2019 and 2020;
                     Ramgoolam), the national STFC Data Science Summer School in Sussex, UK (2019;
                     Rizvi), and the 50th STFC British Universities Summer School in Theoretical Elementary
                     Particle Physics (BUSSTEPP), hosted at QMUL in early 2021 (Russo).



9
    For EDI aspects in recruitment at all levels see Section 2.6.
                                                                                                      Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Skills training: We consistently rank as one of the top three institutes (of 15) for
       engagement in GRADnet bespoke transferrable skills training (in areas including software
       engineering, networking, entrepreneurship and business skills). Students also engage in
       DISCnet training, with feedback confirming that this is well-delivered and highly research-
       relevant.

   •   Secondments: Students are encouraged to take secondments at other institutions or in
       industry, and supervisors proactively help to secure these. Some PhD programmes (e.g.
       SAGEX) have secondments built in.

Our PhD students are also supported by student-led events, from annual poster competitions
judged by leading industry representatives to GRADnet conferences, and enjoy a vibrant research
environment as a result of:




                                                        Weekly seminars run by the MRI, with
                                                        speakers ranging from PhD students to
    Seminars and journal clubs organised by
                                                    internationally leading scientists. Our students
   each Research Centre, including student-led
                                                      also benefit from our membership of major
    seminars and series open only to students.
                                                     networks such as the London Triangle and
                                                              the Thomas Young Centre.




   Two School colloquia per term, plus regular
      symposia on topical cross-boundary             The PhD Forum, a student-run organisation
      subjects with prominent researchers –           financially supported by the School, where
    including Nobel Prize winners – as plenary      PhD students voice their opinion on all matters
   speakers. Academics and students meet and                 relevant to life in the School.
  interact, forging connections between Centres.




The training our students receive makes them eminently employable – recent destinations include
ASI Data Science, Barclays, CERN, DeepMind, HSBC, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, and
VividQ.

2.3.3 Academic and pastoral support

We ensure that our PhD students are fully supported: each student has a primary and secondary
supervisor guiding their development; each Centre has a PhD Tutor independently monitoring
progress to address issues as they arise; and all new academics must attend a PhD Supervision
workshop, with training refreshed every two years to maintain best practice. We have also
produced a bespoke postgraduate handbook providing general guidance for new PhD students.

As a result of our efforts, we have substantially increased our four-year submission rate – to
91% for the last cohort in this REF. Progression from first to second year is now 98%. Student
satisfaction is closely monitored and has risen considerably, e.g. by 29% for overall
experience and 19% for research culture.

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our Graduate Degrees Committee (GDC) oversees all aspects of PhD studies, ensuring that high-
quality supervision and student experience is maintained. It comprises PhD Tutors, the Director of
Graduate Studies (Chair and Research Committee member) and a dedicated administrator.
Supervisors and students prepare biannual joint progress reports, including a reflective self-
assessment and a training plan monitored by the GDC. All students take a formal annual
progression, and an annual final-year cohort day has been introduced in which the expectations of
students’ work and progress are clearly laid out (including the processes for thesis writing and
submission, and all relevant deadlines and timescales). As part of their career development,
students are offered paid training in teaching, demonstrating and tutoring. Finally, a dedicated
student support officer is available to provide pastoral support and signpost to relevant support
services when necessary.

2.4 Postdoctoral research assistants

Since REF2014, 86 externally funded PDRAs (142.8 years) have been appointed from a
diverse set of funders (such as the EPSRC, STFC and EU), and 7 have obtained permanent
appointments at leading institutions. PDRAs are encouraged to work with other researchers, to
give presentations to foster collaborations, to engage in outreach, and to enjoy our wide selection
of staff training courses. They follow QMUL’s Probation and Appraisal schemes, with informal
meetings taking place to develop their Career Development Plan, monitor progress and identify
training needs. In addition to our formal arrangements, we run a mentorship programme where all
staff are encouraged to choose a mentor (based either inside or outside of the School). PDRAs are
funded to visit national and international institutions, workshops and conferences to present their
research and open up future career opportunities.

2.5 Professional services

Since REF2014, the School has invested heavily in professional services: we have 9.8 FTE staff
supporting research, costing approximately £0.6M annually, and introduced the role of Research
Manager in 2017. Our professional staff are encouraged to not only engage with their day-to-day
roles, but to also use their skills to embed themselves in our research community. Many
professional staff are also active research contributors: Physicist Programmer Owen, for example,
is a named author on two recent publications; our Outreach Officer is an active researcher on
space weather and the Earth’s magnetosphere; he collaborates with academics as part of the
Physics Research in Schools Environment (PRiSE) project – a project that engages school
students with hands-on research – and was nominated for a Times Higher Education Award in
2019. By minimising the academic-professional services boundary, we have developed a culture in
which research forms the bedrock of all our activities.

2.6 Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI)

Our dedicated EDI committee (established in this REF period) brings together members from all
research groups and career stages, from undergraduate students to the Head of School, via termly
meetings to develop best practice and spearhead cultural change within the School. The School
has twice been named a ‘Juno Champion’ by the Institute of Physics (the highest level of the award
– first in 2015, renewed in 2019), and has Athena SWAN ‘Silver’ status (first awarded in 2015, and
renewed in May 2020).




                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                                            EDI highlights


  The number of newly recruited
   female academics has more            The ratio of successful
                                                                      Two academics transitioned to
    than doubled compared to             mentored promotion
                                                                         0.8 FTE to support their
    REF2014. 24% and 35% of            applications from female
                                                                        childcare responsibilities,
      our PhD students and          academics was higher than for
                                                                        and were later promoted.
   postdocs, respectively, were         males (86% vs. 69%).
             female.




    All women employed in the School for 5+ years have been              48% of academic staff
  promoted at least once. Of the two academics to progress from       appointed were not born in the
      lecturer to professor within 10 years, one was female.                      UK.




To ensure that this positive trajectory continues, we have a number of EDI policies in place:
   •   Positive action is applied in recruiting at all levels from PhD students to academics, and all
       job adverts are checked for gender-specific language. Shortlists are monitored for
       gender/race imbalances.

   •   ‘Unconscious Bias’ training is compulsory for all staff. Further training courses cover
       aspects of recruitment, appraisals and mentoring.

   •   A ‘Parental Leave Plus’ policy (one of two Schools at QMUL) providing all academics with
       PDRA support while on parental/adoption leave.

   •   Support for staff with disabilities, and dedicated disability, gender, BAME, LGBTQ+, and
       international staff and student ‘Champions’ (recognised for their leadership via our workload
       allocation model; see Section 2.2).

   •   Staff/students with caring responsibilities can request formal flexible/part-time
       arrangements. Staff returning from long-term absence are given a reduced, non-teaching
       workload, and priority for PhD student, conference and travel requests.

   •   All seminars/meetings are scheduled within core hours.

   •   EDI representatives sit in on Faculty promotions panels. Career breaks/part-time
       arrangements are taken into account.

   •   The School provides funding/time for attending internal/external training courses. Where
       external exams are taken as part of gaining a qualification, study leave can be requested.

   •   Staff have access to ‘Mindfulness and Wellbeing’ training, four mental-health first aiders,
       discounted QMUL-gym membership and an employee-assistance programme for advice,
       referrals or counselling.

Crucially, we have embedded the EDI programme in the management structure, with the
Terms of Reference for all committees in the School including EDI roles and responsibilities.


                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Income

A core strategic aim of QMUL is to “significantly increase external research funding from multiple
national and international sources” (see REF5a, Section 2). Incorporating this in our Research
Strategy, since REF2014 the School has considerably increased and diversified grant
income, from £18.5M (£15.9M in the part of the School submitted to UoA9 in REF2014) to
£29.8M.




                          4x              Diversify
                                          e.g. Royal                        22
                         research
                      award value in    Society funding                distinguished
                         2019/20         up over 100x                   fellowships
                       compared to       compared to                       hosted
                         2013/14           REF2014




As shown in Figure 3, annual research income has increased from £3.6M at the beginning of
REF2014 (£3.1M in the part of the School submitted to UoA9) to £5.9M (2019/20).This increase is
especially significant given that the number of academic staff is almost unchanged since REF2014,
the STFC settlement has been flat cash, and that two of the four groups (AU and CRST) pursue
predominantly blue-sky theoretical research.



                  7
   Millions (£)




                  6
                                                                              School income not
                  5                                                           included in UoA9
                                                                              (CCMMP)
                  4

                  3                                                           UoA9

                  2

                  1

                  0




Figure 3. Research income, excluding in-kind.



                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The success of our grant diversification strategy is demonstrated in Figure 4. The value of awards
has quintupled from £2.4M in 2013/14 to £12.7M in 2019/20; this has been achieved by doubling
the number of distinct PIs and increasing the diversity of grant-awarding bodies, e.g. non-STFC
funding has risen from 27% to 45% between REF periods (see Figure 1). Specifically, we have
dramatically increased UKRI (including research councils other than EPSRC and STFC) and
Royal Society funding: the former increased from ~£21.4k p.a. to ~£568k p.a.; the latter from
~£7k p.a. to ~£917k p.a. We also highlight our leadership role in two major, large consortia grants:
the EU ITN SAGEX and the EPSRC-funded DataCentric Engineering Centre for Doctoral Training
– further discussed in Section 4.1.3.


                    14
     Millions (£)




                    12
                    10
                                                                       STFC
                    8                                                  Royal Society
                    6                                                  Other RC/UKRI
                    4                                                  Other
                                                                       EU
                    2
                                                                       EPSRC
                    0




Figure 4. Research grant value by award date. Note a significant increase in awards and funding
sources.

3.2 Income-in-kind

Our in-kind income – from research council-funded facilities – is two orders of magnitude larger
than in REF201410, as reported in Table 2.
     Research group       Value        Description
                                       Value of time on telescopes (ALMA, Cluster, ESO) reported by
     AU                   £1M
                                       UKRI.
                                       CERN subscription, maintenance and operations for our CERN
     PPRC                 £35M
                                       and T2K activities.
                                       Value of beam time on neutron and muon sources and
     CCMMP                £8.3M
                                       synchrotrons, reported by STFC.
                                       Value of computation time on national facilities (Archer,
                                       Athena, PRACE, Thomas). Based on known CPU-hours per
     AU and CCMMP         £1.3M
                                       user, with the cost of each CPU-hour provided by the facility
                                       operators. Cost of time on DIRAC provided directly by STFC.

     Total                £45.6M

Table 2. Income-in-kind from access to research council supported facilities.


10
     Also taking into account incorrect reporting for 2012-13.
                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We have been co-investigators on two strategic EPSRC infrastructure grants worth a total of £7.2M
(MMM: EP/P020194/1, MidPlus: EP/P020232/1), which were used to procure some of the facilities
shown in Table 2. We are also active users of national facilities abroad, including the Institut Laue-
Langevin (France; 14 days, £522k), PSI (Switzerland, 32 days) and ANSTO (Australia; 10 days,
£35k).

Additionally, PPRC has received notable in-kind contributions ranging from facility access to
research support to studentships:


                                                       Contributions relating to activity on Fermilab’s
       £1.2M of in-kind support for an EPSRC            Deep Underground Neutrino Experiment
      doctoral training centre (DCE-CDT), with          (DUNE). The School benefits from these via
     industrial contributions to research support      access to the UK STFC’s Rutherford Appleton
          (staff costs, process adaptations)           Laboratory, the Fermilab and SURF facilities in
                                                              the US, and Canada’s SNOLab


We have also received non-UKRI in-kind facility access contributions – including site usage at
AWE Aldermaston – and PhD studentships from other sources such as QMUL’s Life Sciences
Institute (bringing together particle physics data-science algorithms and cancer proteomics) and
the National Decommissioning Authority.

3.3 Infrastructure and facilities

Our two-year £12M refurbishment of the School building was completed in 2015. The building was
stripped back to its steel and concrete supports and entirely rebuilt from within, with the inclusion of
new offices, interaction spaces and laboratories with state-of-the-art equipment. This represents
almost double the investment of the REF2014 period (£6.5M). £3M went into refurbishing our
laboratories.

3.3.1 Research institutes

QMUL’s cross-faculty research institutes have attracted significant internal investment in recent
years – and the School has been an integral part of several of these.

Institute for Applied Data Science (IADS, Deputy Director: Bevan)
Established in 2018, the IADS coordinates world-class data science and AI research across
QMUL, and has empowered our School with both £2.7M of external funding and a multidisciplinary
network of collaborators. IADS-enabled grants include an EPSRC DCE-CDT (Rizvi), support for
organisation of national meetings on data science for the STFC community (Bevan), and GCRF-
funded research on air quality (Bona).

Materials Research Institute (MRI, Director: Drew)
The director of the MRI, an interdisciplinary institute established in 2013, has been based in our
School for 6.5 of its seven-year lifetime (Dove 2013–2016; Gillin 2016–2018; Drew 2018–present).
The School was instrumental in setting up the MRI, which connects the School’s CCMMP to
QMUL’s Schools of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science, Engineering and Materials
Science, Biological and Chemical Sciences, and Dentistry to foster cross-cutting research
collaborations between faculties, schools, industry and academia. All CCMMP group members are
also members of the MRI. Overall, MRI fellows alone have generated approximately £2.3M in
research awards, including a Royal Academy of Engineering Fellowship and a Future Leaders
Fellowship (Mol, total award value over £1.5M), and forged wider collaborations including the
                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
EPSRC-funded (£2M) CAM-IES network with Cambridge, UCL and Newcastle (MRI fellows
Schroeder and Nielsen; CCMMP Gillin). In total, MRI collaborations have brought in £15M in
research grants.

The CCMMP and MRI are members of the EPSRC Tier-2 Hub in Molecular and Materials
Modelling (recently renewed with £4.5M of EPSRC funding) and Tier-2 Hub Midlands Plus
(renewed with EPSRC funding), and collaborate closely with the multi-institutional Thomas Young
Centre (TYC; the London Centre for the Theory and Simulation of Materials). Since 2014, a total of
14 high-profile TYC soirées have been hosted at the MRI.

3.3.2 Facilities

PPRC hosts one of 5 major UK Tier-2 clusters (6000 cores and 9 PB storage), operating
scientific computing infrastructure on behalf of GridPP and the STFC IRIS project. Attracting
around £3.5M external investment in capital and people over the REF period, these facilities
enable international computation for CERN’s Large Hadron Collider and beyond, across the
diverse areas of particle physics, astrophysics, cosmology, nuclear physics and bioinformatics. Co-
hosting infrastructure with other groups from across the institution enables PPRC to provide in-kind
support to smaller groups without dedicated support posts.

The School used its in-house cleanroom and nitrogen glovebox facilities to invent and characterise
a new organic semiconductor-based neutron detection device, with support from the STFC and its
Impact Accelerator Award, 1.5 PhD studentships funded by AWE, summer internship funding by
NuSec, and QMUL seed funding. This involved collaboration between multi-disciplinary teams in
CCMMP and PPRC, and resulted in the filing of an international patent.

In addition to open-access and shared laboratories within the schools contributing to the MRI, we
operate several world-class laboratories, including those at the CCMMP and PPRC.
The CCMMP hosts one clean room (60m2, class 10,000) and three laboratories (one 120m2
general purpose, one 60m2 wet chemistry, one 60m2 laser). CCMMP and PPRC share a class-100
clean room (35m2).
The PPRC hosts one clean room (35m2, class 10,000) and four general purpose laboratories
(75m2 in total), which collectively include over £1M of equipment (including an automatic wedge
bonder, optical and mechanical coordinate measuring machines, a semiautomatic probe station,
and a wire bond and micro material test system for semiconductor and instrument construction).
The School also has tools for equipment construction – especially equipment relating to the PPRC
particle accelerator detector building and testing programme – in research workshops totalling
145m2 in size. As part of the recent facility overhaul, which saw £12M investment into the School,
the MRI has overseen the construction of new research laboratories and acquisition of core
research equipment. Staff now have access to state-of-the-art instrumentation, including:


        £535k               £400k               £180k               £204k               £160k

                       Cluster thin-film   High-throughput
                                                                  Scanning
                       molecular beam       powder X-ray                             Ultrasonic
         XPS                                                       Raman
                         deposition           diffraction                           wedge bonder
                                                                 microscope
                           system              system




                                                                                           Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

4.1.1 Approach to developing research collaborations and networks

Our research culture aims to empower a diverse range of partners to perform novel and
impactful collaborative research. To this end, QMUL has made significant investments in
regional and national partnerships including:

     1. SEPnet – South-East Physics Network of ten regional universities supported by a ten-year
        HEFCE grant of £15.2m (2008-2018) and ongoing institutional investment. It provides the
        GRADnet graduate school and was instrumental in the creation of the DISCnet CDT (see
        Section 4.1.3).

     2. NExT Institute has led to a successful joint PhD programme with U. of Southampton
        graduating 6 PhDs since 2014.

     3. Alan Turing Institute – the School hosts two fellows applying data science and AI to new
        research problems (Bevan, Rizvi).

     4. IPPP – Award of three associateships to collaborate with phenomenologists at Durham’s
        IPPP (Bevan, Di Lodovico, Rizvi).


The university also provides funding – up to £2k – for academics wishing to deepen collaborations
with targeted universities. Examples of this include Rizvi, whose collaboration with the University of
São Paulo, Brazil, resulted in two joint publications and an agreement allowing QMUL to access
bilateral Brazilian funding; and Bona’s collaboration with the Instituto Politéchnico Nacional in
Mexico, which resulted in a follow-up GCRF-funded PDRA position in our School. Funds are also
available for PhD students (£2k via Postgraduate Research Funds) wishing to work with world-
leading experts, access unique facilities, and repatriate skills to the UK (e.g. collaboration with
Super-Kamiokande); academics are encouraged to host international conferences and provided
with up to £2k of financial support (e.g. Rizvi QCD@LHC 2015); and Research Enabling Funds
(see Section 2.2) can be used flexibly to support collaboration.

4.1.2 Collaborations and partnerships

International partnerships are a key strength of our research. We successfully attract outstanding
external collaborators – and benefit from a bilateral flow of expertise and wider access to world-
leading facilities as a result.

AU

The AU has brought together, for the first time, leading contributors to major cosmological next-
generation surveys including ESA’s Euclid mission, LISA, HERA, the LSST and the SKA.
Academics hold leadership positions in the Working Groups for each of these missions (Baker,
Clarkson, Pourtsidou), with Pourtsidou being Coordinator of the InterScience Taskforce for
nonlinearities in Euclid, and Bull serving on the HERA Telescope’s International Executive Board.
Successful collaborations have developed from these activities, including a QMUL PDRA on the
HERA Telescope funded by the University of California, Berkeley. The SKA project has intensified
research with the University of Western Cape (South Africa), resulting in three long-standing
visiting positions (Bull, Clarkson, Pourtsidou). The AU leads work-packages for the PLATO mission
(Nelson, Paardekooper) and Gillen is a member of the NGTS consortium, with strong collaborative
                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
links with members of the TESS mission. In 2014, the AU established the Perren Visiting Professor
programme, funding long-term visits by leading astronomers: Bale (Berkeley); Nicholson (Cornell);
Sorriso-Valvo (Nanotec/CNR and University of Calabria); and Sussman (UNAM, Mexico).

CCMMP

CCMMP is an active member of the Thomas Young Centre – with co-investigators on two national
computing facilities: Midplus and MMM – and is a leading group in the use of the large-scale ISIS
and Diamond facilities, with Dove, Drew, Phillips, Sapelkin and Trachenko using neutron, X-ray
synchrotron and muon beamlines. to study a variety of materials. Dove, Drew, and Sapelkin have
developed instruments at ISIS and Diamond. In 2012, a Sino-British Materials Research Institute
with Sichuan University (SCU) was established under the directorship of Gillin, with Dove, Drew,
Gillin and Kreouzis holding visiting professorships. This collaboration has spanned disciplines and
QMUL Centres, with CRST contributing to teaching at SCU (Wecht, ex-QMUL) and PPRC
participating in joint research on radiation detectors (Bevan). CCMMP has attracted significant
International Exchange awards (Dennis, Drew, Misquitta, Phillips, Sapelkin) funded by the GCRF,
Royal Society, CNRS-France, and Natural Science Foundation of China.

CRST

CRST has longstanding research links with Witwatersrand University (South Africa), where
Ramgoolam holds a funded six-year visiting professorship. A resulting joint post-doctoral
programme has created extended QMUL secondments for four Witwatersrand PDRAs. Strong
collaborations exist with the University of Kyoto (resulting in over 20 joint papers and a
memorandum of understanding for further collaborations), Nikhef (Dutch National Institute for
Subatomic Physics), Humboldt University Berlin (resulting in the joint SAGEX grant), and the
University of Cambridge. CRST is a founding member of the London Triangle, the world’s largest
string theory network. Its shared seminar programme has over 40 academics and attracts world-
leaders to speak at its meetings. The network provides the basis for the STFC-funded
Fundamental Physics UK Virtual Network, which commenced in October 2020. CRST was also a
partner of the COST Action ‘The String Theory Universe’.

PPRC

PPRC is strongly engaged in field-leading large-scale experiments, as reflected by leadership
positions in the top-level Working Groups of ATLAS (convenorships: Bona, Blumenschein), ANITA,
NOvA and DUNE (Cremonesi), and Hyper-Kamiokande (International Spokesperson: Di Lodovico).
The group leads highly cited phenomenological collaborations including UTFIT, HFLAV (Bona),
BlackMax and HERAPDF (Rizvi), and collaborates with the RAL Particle Physics and Technology
Divisions and US institutes including Yale and UC Berkeley on the ATLAS upgrade.




                                                                                           Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.1.3 Doctoral training partnerships

The School has a longstanding history of collaborative PhD training, as shown below, and was a
partner in the EU-funded ITN GATIS+.

                Led by QMUL, SAGEX (Scattering Amplitudes: from Geometry to EXperiment – PI:
                Travaglini, €4M) is an EU-funded ITN of 7 industrial partners and 14 leading
                international institutions across Europe (UK, Austria, Denmark, France, Germany,
    SAGEX
                Ireland and Switzerland), the US and Canada. It is the first such consortium to train
                students in scattering amplitude research, and provides industry secondments with
                partners including Wolfram, Maplesoft, Danske Bank and Mærsk.

                Led by QMUL, the DCE-CDT (Data-Centric Engineering Centre for Doctoral
                Training – PI: Rizvi, £1.6m) will offer a multi-disciplinary programme of training co-
                delivered with industry partners. The highly innovative CDT aims to upskill those
                from non-academic backgrounds with doctoral-level skills in workplace-based
  DCE-CDT
                research across engineering, computer science and physics. Highly talented
                individuals who left academia 3+ years ago are targeted, including employees of
                industry partners, and those who faced financial or self-confidence barriers to
                doctoral training.

                DISCnet (Data Intensive SCience network) is the largest (£1.8M) STFC-funded
                CDT spanning five SEPnet institutes. It has trained 45 PhD students and 30
                associate students in three cohorts, and offers industry, third- and public-sector
   DISCnet
                placements transferring data science skills into the economy with 50 partners.
                QMUL has a substantial leadership role, with Rizvi as Director of Training and
                Skills. DISCnet was awarded the highest rating in STFC’s mid-term review.

                GRADnet is the largest graduate school in England, with a network of 200 regional
                employers offering applied research and knowledge exchange opportunities, and a
                diverse range of bespoke physics and transferrable skills training. Eleven
   GRADnet
                collaborative events are held annually (25 days in total) including residential topical
                student-led conferences, winter and summer schools, free for all PhD students and
                PDRAs.



4.2 Contribution to the research base

4.2.1 Peer review and editorships

Academics regularly referee for prestigious journals including Nature, Science, Physical Review
Letters, Journal of High Energy Physics, with two holding journal editorships (Bevan, Clarkson).

4.2.2 Prizes and distinctions

Academics have been awarded international research prizes, including the EPSRC-CCP 2020
prize and top 10 Physics World Breakthroughs (Trachenko), the NASA Group Achievement Award
2018 (Murray), the Royal Astronomical Society Fowler Prize 2017 (Chen), the Humboldt
foundation’s Friedrich Wilhelm Bessel Research Award 2016 (Travaglini), the Georgia’s Shota
Rustaveli National Science Foundation Award 2016 (Tsiklauri), the Fulbright All-Disciplines Scholar
Award 2015 (Baker), the Chinese Ministry of Education’s Chiangjiang Distinguished Professor
Award 2015 (Drew), the South African National Research Foundation’s Internationally Acclaimed
Researcher Award 2014 (Clarkson), and the Chinese Ministry of Education ‘Talent 1000 Professor’
                                                                                              Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Award 2014 (Drew and Gillin). Anglada-Escudé was named amongst the 100 most influential
people (Time) and a top-10 scientist of 2016 (Nature).

4.2.3 Membership of funding panels and (inter)national advisory boards

During REF2021, 22 academics have sat on panels. Within STFC, these include three
Experimental Oversight Committees (including as Chair – Bevan), the Fellowships Panel (Rizvi),
three Advisory Panels (public engagement/Berman, astronomy/Sutherland, computing/Dove and
Nelson), the Projects Peer Review Panel (Hays, Hobson), the Particle Physics Grants Panel
(Travaglini), the Resource Allocation and Project Management Boards (Hays), and PPAP (Bevan
from 10/2020). 7 academics are members of the EPSRC Peer Review College, and serve regularly
on fellowships and standard grants mathematical and physical sciences panels. Green sits on the
Royal Society’s Dorothy Hodgkin Fellowship panel. Internationally, our research profile has
resulted in panel membership at the European Commission, NASA, ANSTO, NIST, US
Department of Energy, Swiss Science Foundation, German Research Foundation (DFG), South
Africa’s National Research Foundation, Research Council of Norway, CERN SPS/PS Experiments
Committee, and Japan Atomic Energy Agency’s Materials and Life Review Panel, as well as Vice-
Presidency of the International Society of Muon Spectroscopists, Chairmanship of the ICTP-SAIFR
in Sao Paolo (Brazil), the Meyer prize, and membership of the Dirac Medal and New Horizons
Prize committees (Green, FRS), the Korean Institute for Basic Science evaluation Board (Berman),
and the UK Space Agency JUICE Programme Management Board (Murray).

4.2.4 Other esteem

Academics have carried out 181 postgraduate defences and evaluated 198 proposals for
international funding agencies including NASA (USA), NWO (NL), NSF (USA), DFG (Germany),
NSERC (Canada) and the European Commission. Academics have held visiting professorships at
institutions including the University of Cambridge, Harvard, Humboldt University Berlin, University
of Rome Tor Vergata, Sorbonne University and CEMES-CNRS. Academics are members of
learned societies, with Green being a Fellow of the Royal Society.

4.2.5 Conferences, visitors and workshops

Since 2014, academics have given over 170 plenary talks and colloquia at international
conferences and workshops, including Amplitudes (Green 2020; Bianchi, Monteiro and Wen 2019;
Brandhuber 2017; Green, Monteiro, Wen and White 2016; Travaglini 2015; Penante 2014), CKM
2018 (Bona), COSMO 2016 (Perry), COSMO 2019 and Euclid Consortium 2019 (Pourtsidou),
ICHEP 2016 (Blumenschein), IGST (Travaglini, 2015), Solvay/Strings (Perry, 2019) and Strings
(Buican and Perry 2016; Green, 2018).

The School received approximately 7400 days of collaborative visits and academic visitors for
6800 days, including Nobel laureates Barish, Cronin, ’t Hooft, Kobayashi and Penrose.

Over the REF period, two conference series were created: IPA and NuPhys. We organised 25 (35)
workshops, conferences and PhD schools at (outside) QMUL for a total of 66 (246) days, also with
QMUL support. Examples include:




                                                                                           Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                100 years of GR (Clifton), Division on Dynamical Astronomy of the American
                Astronomical Society 2017 (Murray), European High Pressure Research meetings
                (Dunstan, Sapelkin, 2013), Interplay Between Particle and Astroparticle Physics,
                IPA2014 (2014, Bevan), LSST.
   At QMUL:      Dark Energy Science Collaboration: Theory and Joint Probes working group hack
                meeting (Bull, 2018), NuPhys (2015/16/17, Di Lodovico), QCD@LHC (2015, Rizvi),
                SAGEX opening conference and Bern-Dixon-Kosower afternoon (Brandhuber and
                Travaglini, 2018/19), SKA-Euclid joint meeting (Bull, Clarkson and Pourtsidou,
                2017).

                CECAM Flagship workshops (2016, Misquitta), Joint Abdus Salam ICTP and IAEA
                conference (2016, Trachenko), CERN-CKC TH Institute on Duality Symmetries
                (Berman, 2015), CERN LHCP 2019 (Bona), Division on Dynamical Astronomy of
                the American Astronomical Society (2019, Murray), Banff International Research
                Station (Berman, 2017), Corfu Institute (Berman, 2019), European Crystallographic
    Outside
                Meeting and British Crystallography Association Spring Meeting (2016-2018 and
    QMUL:
                2020, Phillips), 50 Years of the Veneziano Model at GGI (Green and Russo, 2018),
                Kavli Institute for Theoretical Physics workshop on Scattering Amplitudes
                (Travaglini, 2017), Pohang Mathematics Institute (Berman, 2016), QCD@LHC
                2016 (Rizvi), String Theory from a Worldsheet Perspective at GGI (Green and
                Russo, 2019), IPA 2016 and 2018 (Bevan, Bona and Hays).

4.3 Contributions to sustainability of the discipline

4.3.1 Interdisciplinary research

The interdisciplinarity of our research has increased since 2014 with the creation of the MRI and
IADS (described in Section 3.3.1), which provide seminars, training and brainstorming events to
remove barriers to networking, build industrial partnerships, and connect QMUL researchers to
national bodies such as the Alan Turing and Faraday Institutes. As a result, the School has been
able to apply advanced computer science and machine learning techniques to physics research
(facilitated by, for instance, DISCnet students co-supervised by computer science academics).

4.3.2 Responsiveness to national and international priorities

The formation of the IADS is a direct response to the national data-science agenda, and tackles
one of the Grand Challenges in the government’s Industrial Strategy. The DISCnet CDT also
engages in this arena and facilitates two-way knowledge exchange between academia and
industry. Similarly, the DCE-CDT aims to create an industry-accessible research environment, and
address EDI challenges in doctoral research.

4.4 Contribution to economy and society

4.4.1 Public engagement in research

The School has an illustrious history of public engagement, with well-established pathways for
cultural engagement – and effective mechanisms supporting these. The School:

1. Has a Public Outreach Director (Berman, member of the STFC public engagement strategy
   panel) – and an Outreach Champion in each research group to advise on engagement and
   outreach opportunities at the research design stage, and incorporate impact activities into
   grants. QMUL’s Centre for Public Engagement provides additional support in the design,

                                                                                           Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   implementation and evaluation of our outreach, and was the first recipient of the National Co-
   ordinating Centre for Public Engagement’s Gold Engage Watermark;
2. Organises an extensive outreach programme, including public lectures, social media
   engagement, school visits, contributions to national events such as the Royal Society Summer
   Exhibition, and public research open days;
3. Has partnerships with the Ogden Trust, SEPnet and the Millennium Maths project, leading to
   the delivery of joint projects such as ‘Researching the unknown’;
4. Developed the internationally recognised ‘Physics Research in School Environments’
   (PRiSE) programme, which was shortlisted for a Times Higher Education award in 2019 (see
   separate case study);
5. Appointed Becky Parker MBE, founder of the Institute for Research in Schools (IRIS) and
   winner of the Royal Society’s Kavli Education Medal in 2016, as a visiting professor to
   provide leadership and experience with schools outreach;
6. Appointed Ben Still as a visiting fellow, to continue his Lego-based particle physics work for
   schools and science festivals. Still’s book on this approach has had a notable impact and
   accrued sales of nearly £100k;
7. Has a named ‘cultural engagement leader’ (Berman) who, by partnering with galleries, has
   created internationally recognised work at the interface of science and the arts. This builds
   upon our REF2014 impact case on arts engagement, where the School was acknowledged as
   a national leader;
8. Has a strong representation in the media, with School members appearing on BBC News,
   ‘In our Time’ and BBC Radio 4’s ‘Today’ programme. The reach of these appearances is
   enhanced by BBC archives, with over 8 million people downloading the ‘In our Time’ podcasts;
   and
9. Has 75% of its academics involved with outreach activities over the REF period.
Additionally, the number of public engagement events has grown, as shown in Figure 5, with
several involving audiences of over 1000 (note that the drop in 2020 is Covid-related, though
school-based events continued remotely where possible).

 100


  80


  60


  40


  20


   0




Figure 5. Number of public engagement events.
                                                                                           Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



4.4.2 External collaborations – industry and policy work

The School maintains several international working relationships and has built upon its broad
contacts to carry out diverse research in collaboration with global organisations and governments:


  Associated academic          Details

  Trachenko, Dove and          Signed a research and data-sharing agreement with the
  Drew                         International Atomic Energy Agency.

                               Collaborates with the Indonesian Atomic Energy Agency on
                               structural materials characterisation; advises the Indonesian Ministry
  Drew                         of Energy and Mineral Resources and Ministry of Research and
                               Technology, and has co-founded the National Battery Research
                               Institute.

                               Launched a spin-out company, Chromosol Ltd. in 2017 (with
                               investment from IP Group Ltd. and Innovate-UK), which secured a
  Gillin                       total of £875K in venture capital investment prior to July 2020.
                               Coupled with grant funding, this enabled them to expand to 6
                               employees.

                               Collaborates with: Absolute Action Ltd on bespoke lighting for
                               crystals at the Smithsonian (USA) and Natural History (UK)
  Dunstan                      Museums, station canopies on the Washington Metro and artworks
                               in private/stately residences; Renishaw plc on optics and software in
                               their Raman spectroscopy systems.

                               Integrated new crystal structure analysis methods into CrystalMaker
                               software (the flagship product of the eponymous UK SME, and used
  Dove
                               internationally by academics, governments and industry). Received
                               an Innovate-UK grant.

                               Participated in a project for a major global bank (embargoed by
  Berman
                               NDA) on applying machine learning to operational risk in banking.

                               Signed a technology license agreement with Symetrica and began a
                               new collaboration with Micron Semiconductor Ltd, both as a result of
  Bevan and Kreouzis
                               AWE contracts totalling £228k (for developing organic
                               semiconductor thermal neutron detectors).




                                                                                            Page 28
