Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of St Andrews

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 10: Mathematical Sciences

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Overview and context
 The School of Mathematics and Statistics at St Andrews has enjoyed major success over the
 past six years, gaining 12 prestigious prizes and grants totalling £14.25M. The School has grown
 significantly, to 45 academic staff (from 32 in 2014), 28 research staff and 9 research active
 emeritus staff, with two new impactful research areas established. Notable achievements include
 solving long-standing conjectures in combinatorics, group theory and Fourier analysis,
 pioneering numerical methods and software that make large scale 3-D modelling of climate and
 MHD feasible, and developing statistical techniques compatible with high-tech data collection
 methods.
 Activity is structured around research groups in areas across the mathematical spectrum. Some
 are long-standing: Solar and Magnetospheric MHD Theory, Vortex Dynamics, Algebra and
 Combinatorics, Analysis and Statistical Ecology. Since 2014 two rapidly developing groups have
 been founded with impact in mind: Mathematical Biology and Statistical Medicine and Molecular
 Biology. The School is almost unique in the UK with a commitment to History of Mathematics,
 recently underpinned by academic appointments.
 Staff and research students have a primary
 research group affiliation, but many are members of
 more than one group, reflecting intradisciplinary
 activity.
 The School is a founding partner of four
 interdisciplinary research centres joint with other
 schools across the University: Centre for Research
 into Ecological and Environmental Modelling
 (CREEM), Centre for Interdisciplinary Research in
 Computational Algebra (CIRCA), Scottish Oceans
 Institute (SOI) and the new Mackenzie Institute for
 Early Diagnosis.
 Computer-intensive research and modelling
 features prominently in all areas of applied
 mathematics and statistics as well as in computational algebra, capitalising on access to high
 performance computing (HPC) facilities locally and nationally.


 Research and impact strategy
 The School’s strategy fits into the University’s strategic framework described in the Institution-
 Level Environment Statement (ILES, 1), mirroring the University’s four themes: World-leading,
 Global, Diverse and Entrepreneurial. The strategy has developed from that proposed in
 REF2014: to concentrate on areas based around research groups, to ensure that research and
 impact remains cutting-edge, to be proactive in exploring new directions, and to develop
 synergies between interests locally, nationally and internationally. The School has been
 enhanced by strategic appointments, both senior and early career, and much increased

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaborative, impactful and interdisciplinary activity, within the School, the University and world-
 wide.

 Ongoing strategy
 Our strategy is to support existing research groups to ensure they remain world-leading but
 evolve as knowledge and needs develop (evidenced by new appointments across all groups)
 and to seed impactful new research directions (new groups in Mathematical Biology and
 Statistical Medicine).
 We seek funding from a wide range of sources including research councils, consultancy,
 government and industrial contracts (significant funding across all research areas and from
 many sources) and build on our reputation to leverage further contract and consultancy work
 with government and non-government agencies and other external bodies (e.g. considerable
 environmental statistics consultancy). We continue to increase connectivity and develop
 synergies between our groups, with other areas in the University, and with cognate groups
 nationally and internationally (strategic appointments, interdisciplinary centres, extensive
 worldwide collaboration). In particular we develop research and impact opportunities in the
 priority areas of research funding bodies and of the University (ILES, 2.5), notably in ecology
 and environment, biodiversity, climate change and space weather, health and infectious
 diseases (e.g. new groups with links to public health organisations, Met Office collaborations).
 The roles of the Director of Research and the Director of Impact (appointed in 2015) are
 embedded within the School structure, to encourage and facilitate research and impact
 initiatives, link with University officers and units, and keep staff informed of opportunities and
 funding.
 We engender a culture of impact throughout our activities, with staff both identifying impact
 opportunities as they arise in their work and by embarking on dedicated impact projects.
 Potential impact is frequently developed through dedicated impact funding (over 35 projects
 recently funded by University and EPSRC IAAs, SFC Global Challenges Fund and US Office of
 Naval Research, with further IAA applications pending). Several research groups work closely
 with practitioners, especially Statistical Ecology, Mathematical Biology and Statistical Medicine,
 and the School has recently established an Impact and Entrepreneurial Advisory Board
 consisting of local business representatives with whom we meet regularly to identify and
 establish mutually beneficial partnerships. The School has a dedicated Business Development
 Manager based in the University Research Funding Support unit who helps staff identify and
 develop impact initiatives.
 We continue to develop impact through public engagement and knowledge transfer (e.g. free
 software such as Distance and Hydra, supported by face to face and online workshops) and
 outreach, for which our research portfolio is well-suited, coordinated by our two Outreach
 Officers.
 Excellence in research and impact is a key consideration in School planning, academic
 appointments and assessing promotions. We encourage staff to apply for research or impact
 leave, taken by most staff since 2014, to provide quality time to devote to significant projects.
 With much of our work computationally intensive and with our world-leading specialist
 programming expertise, we ensure, in conjunction with the University HPC Board, ongoing
 access to state-of-the-art high performance computing, including massively parallel computing,
 through University and national facilities (computationally intensive work in many areas). We

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 embrace emergent technology for collection of data and develop robust statistical techniques for
 its analysis (e.g. wildlife data from visual and acoustic drones, crowd sourcing methods).
 We maintain a lively environment that is academically, physically and socially conducive to
 producing excellent research and that attracts top researchers (evidenced by the quality of
 applicants for posts, eight seminar series, visitor programmes, local conferences, national and
 international networks, annual School Research Day and pleasant surroundings).
 Despite the unforeseen and sudden challenges of COVID-19, our research groups have
 continued to flourish with generally little disruption, apart from curtailing statistical ecology
 fieldwork. Staff adapted well to working from home though special consideration was given to
 those with young families who understandably found it more difficult than others. With strong
 support from our computer officers and IT services, computational research has continued and
 online meetings and seminars have worked well; indeed the flexibility of online working has led
 to new external collaborations. Several conferences organized by, or with participants from, St
 Andrews have taken place online (often with much larger attendance than usual), others have
 been postponed. Staff have gained five grants from Scottish Government and other sources to
 help mitigate the impact of COVID-19.
 Longer term plans
 Prior to the COVID-19 crisis, the University had agreed to exciting long term plans for the
 School. These included the construction of a purpose-designed new building to house the entire
 School which had reached the architect-planning stage with completion scheduled for 2024.
 With an exceptionally high number of well-qualified undergraduate and taught postgraduate
 applicants we were planning an expansion programme to increase our overall undergraduate
 numbers by 80 and our MSc numbers by 24 over the next 5 years. It was the School’s intention
 to appoint 9 additional academic staff between 2021 and 2024, and thus expand and diversify
 our research and impact activities in accordance with our strategy. We fully intend to embark on
 this programme but the timing will depend on the overall situation in the HE sector post-COVID-
 19.

 Impact case studies
 Our four submitted impact case studies resonate with the above strategy.
 CREEM’s reputation in ecological statistics led to two case studies in the priority area of ecology
 and environment. (1) Statistical methods for wildlife monitoring and conservation in the digital
 age develops methodology for new digital methods of monitoring wildlife in remote
 environments, funded by contracts with conservation organisations in many countries to advise
 and train their staff. (2) Distance sampling survey methods contribute to managing wild animal
 populations and quantifying biodiversity has led to knowledge transfer through publicly available
 software, widely used by government and NGOs for wildlife management and conservation.
 (3) Statistical research reduces environmental impact in the world’s oceans covers a range of
 projects resulting from substantial contracts (e.g. US Navy, Bioconsult) and EPSRC IAA funding,
 to use spatial modelling to analyse the effects of human activities on the oceans.
 (4) Bringing mathematics and its history to diverse audiences worldwide demonstrates extensive
 outreach and public engagement developed from collective staff expertise alongside new
 appointments, the world-renowned MacTutor History of Mathematics website having been
 upgraded using EPSRC and University impact funding.


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Research groups – achievements and directions
 Key to our strategy are the research groups in which staff, postdocs, postgraduates and visitors
 all play a full and valued part. Each group runs its own regular seminar programme (which have
 continued online and attracted international participants during COVID-19) as well as organising
 reading groups, workshops and conferences. The groups have developed extensive networks
 that facilitate collaborations with leading researchers world-wide.
 Note ° denotes a staff member who has left during the period and * denotes a retired but
 research active staff member.

 Solar and Magnetospheric Theory (Archontis, Cairns*, De
 Moortel, Hood, Mackay, Neukirch, Parnell, Priest*, Roberts*,
 Wright)
 This group, which gained six prizes during the period, develops
 mathematical models of observed solar and magnetospheric
 phenomena. The main emphasis is on magnetohydrodynamics (MHD), including solar
 prominences and flares, space weather, coronal loops and oscillations, flux emergence, coronal
 heating and particle acceleration. This modelling combines large scale computation with
 sophisticated analytical techniques, informed by observations from space missions which have
 group members as invited co-investigators, e.g. ESA (Co-Is for a project on coronal mass
 ejection on the recently launched Solar Orbiter) and NASA (MUSE, SOLARIS).
 Highlights since 2014 include: a new model of small scale coronal heating events by an MHD
 avalanche (Hood); a key model, based on the observed evolution of photospheric magnetic
 fields, for the formation of large magnetic structures that can support prominences (Mackay);
 uncovering the theoretical basis of Alfven wave resonances in 3D magnetic fields (Wright), and a
 numerical and analytical derivation of mode coupling to demonstrate Gaussian damping (Hood,
 De Moortel).
 Looking ahead, the group will develop new computationally efficient methods to investigate the
 complex thermodynamical interplay between the coronal and chromospheric plasmas; determine
 the importance of MHD waves and magnetic reconnection in the energy balance of the corona
 and magnetosphere; produce computational predictions of eruptions from active regions, based
 on the development of data-driven models, with implications for space weather.
 Since 1996 the group’s main funding has come via a large STFC consolidated grant; this was
 renewed again in 2016 and in 2019 up to 2022. Together with a recent ERC Synergy Grant and
 a European Consolidator Grant, the group is very well-resourced for the future.

 Vortex Dynamics (Burgess, Carr°, Dritschel, Rees Jones,
 Reinaud, Scott, Tran)
 The group focuses on geophysical and astrophysical fluid
 dynamics, including climate applications. They have developed a
 unique set of analytical and numerical research methods tailored to
 studying fundamental aspects of vortex interactions accurately and efficiently and applicable to a
 wide diversity of problems.




                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 As anticipated in REF2014, considerable advances have been made in understanding the
 formation of coherent structures, such as fronts and jets, in planetary atmospheres. The
 methods have been extended to MHD to study turbulence in the solar interior, linking with the
 Solar Group.
 Recent and ongoing research includes: understanding the regularity of the Navier-Stokes
 equation using a novel pressure-based approach (Tran); the formation of singularities in surface
 flows (Dritschel, Scott); a comprehensive analysis of Kelvin-Helmholtz instability in stratified
 flows (Carr°, Dritschel); a model of hurricane development and equilibration (Scott). Significant
 research concerns planetary atmospheres, e.g. new explanations for the banded circulation
 patterns on the gas giant planets (Dritschel, Scott). New advances in shallow-water modelling
 have led to a Leverhulme Fellowship (Dritschel) to understand entirely new flow regimes.
 The group continues to extend its computational expertise, especially for 3-D simulations which
 are becoming feasible with sophisticated coding and HPC. With a new 5-year £474k grant to
 develop new models of clouds and convection with the potential to improve weather forecasting
 and climate modelling, these techniques will be developed for 3-D models of shallow flow and for
 ocean vortices, crucial to understanding transport of heat, nutrients and pollutants in the oceans.

 Mathematical Biology (Chaplain, Kursawe, Lorenzi°, Minas,
 Sfakianakis, Venkataraman°)
 The group was formed in 2015 with the appointment of Chaplain
 to the Gregory Chair and has grown to 5 staff, 3 postdocs and 4
 research students.
 The group formulates, develops, analyses and simulates mathematical models to study the key
 mechanisms which underpin the dynamics of a broad range of biological and medical systems.
 A main focus is mathematical oncology, specifically multiscale modelling of cancer growth and
 treatment (synergies with Statistical Medicine). A major success has been a new model for
 metastatic spread of cancer. Other research includes modelling tuberculosis and antibiotics
 resistance, theoretical ecology (synergies with Statistical Ecology), biological pattern formation,
 cell migration and evolutionary game theory (potential applications to modelling conflict and
 security).
 The group is a leading partner in two large collaborative projects: ‘SofTMech: EPSRC Centre for
 Multiscale Soft Tissue Mechanics - with applications to heart and cancer’ (£2M with Glasgow,
 Heriot-Watt and Sheffield) and the MRC funded ‘Developing new paradigms for overcoming drug
 resistance in cancer using novel humanised mouse models’ (£1.25M with Dundee Medical
 School).
 The group will maintain its position as a world-leading cancer modelling centre and build on its
 strong foundation to grow and broaden its interests to areas such as evolutionary biology, social
 sciences and psychology.

 Analysis (Bleak, K.Falconer, Fraser, Olsen, Todd)
 The appointment of Falconer to the Regius Chair and recruitment
 of Fraser have cemented the group’s world-leading reputation in
 fractal and multifractal geometry and dynamics. The group has grown substantially with grants of
 £950k that have supported 4 postdocs. As anticipated in REF2014, links with the Algebra Group



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 have developed, with joint PhD students, e.g. applying dynamical methods to infinite group
 theory.
 Two topics in fractal geometry, the distance problem and affinity dimension, both initiated by
 Falconer in the 1980s, have attracted intense international interest over the past 6 years with the
 group making significant contributions as new methods from ergodic theory and additive
 combinatorics have emerged. Fraser’s work on Assouad dimension has opened up a new area
 with unexpected connections, for example to near-arithmetic progressions.
 The group’s interests continue to broaden. The solution of an old problem of Kahane on the
 dimension of Brownian graphs (Fraser) and the use of zeta functions and ideas from number
 theory to study fractals (Olsen) have raised a diversity of new questions. Research on the
 underlying mechanisms which produce different kinds of statistical behaviour for various
 dynamical systems (Todd) and for stochastic processes (Falconer) is ongoing. Todd is a leader
 in extreme value theory in dynamical systems and will develop impactful work relating to climate
 change, both global (temperature fluctuations) and local (storms, floods).

 Algebra and Combinatorics (Bailey, Bleak, Cameron, Huczynska, Len,
 Mitchell, Quick, Rivin°, Roney-Dougal, Ruskuc, Theran)
 The group embraces a wide sweep of algebra and combinatorics, with
 pioneering research in group theory, semigroup theory, combinatorics of
 words and permutations, computational algebra, and combinatorics of
 designs (all areas cited in Cameron’s 2017 Senior Berwick Prize). The
 group’s ongoing strategy is to proceed from these foundations and explore
 new topics, areas and methodologies, furthered by appointments of Len and Theran at the
 geometry/combinatorics interface. Particular trademarks are the group’s multiply-connected
 collaboration network, interdisciplinary research especially through CIRCA, and many PhD
 students (currently 15).
 Highlights since 2014 include: developments on Thompson groups resulting from an
 intradisciplinary approach between algebra, geometry, dynamics and theoretical computer
 science, specifically classifying the automorphism groups of the Higman-Thompson groups Gn,r
 (Bleak, Cameron) and proving the undecidability of the torsion problem for the groups nV (n ≥2)
 (Belk, Bleak); advances on generators for groups and semigroups, including introduction of a
 new parameter related to the minimal number of generators (Cameron, Roney-Dougal); a
 complete description of congruence lattices of all standard diagram monoids (Mitchell, Ruskuc).
 Computational algebra and engagement with the vast GAP computer algebra system remain a
 significant focus both in terms of development and applications.

 Statistical Ecology (Bailey, Borchers, Buckland, Donovan,
 Durbach, Glennie, Goudie, Illian°, Jupp*, King°, Langrock°,
 MacKenzie, Marques, Oedekoven, Scott-Hayward, Sutherland,
 Thomas, Worthington)
 The world-leading reputation of this group was confirmed in 2019 with the award of the Guy
 Medal in Gold to its long-term leader Buckland for ‘his significant and sustained contributions to
 the development of statistical methods for ecological applications … transforming the power,
 accuracy and robustness of traditional methods’.
 The group forms the main component of the interdisciplinary centre CREEM, with 15 research
 staff, whose work includes new methods development, high-impact applied research,
                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 consultancy, and training workshops for practitioners. Research and contract income since 2014
 has exceeded £5.1M, with a major focus on developing methods to monitor more effectively
 wildlife species impacted by anthropogenic activities and to predict the consequences of these
 activities.
 Distance sampling methods for estimating population density remain a particular strength, with a
 new book and new versions of our industry-standard free software (downloaded 50,000+ times).
 Another major area, highlighted as new in REF2014, is in Bayesian capture-recapture and
 spatial capture-recapture. Significant progress includes development of methods for acoustic
 data, open population modelling, dealing with recapture uncertainty and incorporating animal
 movement into estimation. Inference on animal movement is an emerging strength with
 inference from spatial ecological data remaining a focus.
 The group will build on its reputation to seek further funding and develop current and emerging
 strengths. We will look to growth areas such as biodiversity monitoring and the environmental
 impact of renewable energy, developing methods for high-tech data collection and analysis, for
 example using acoustic aerial drones, remotely-activated cameras and undersea gliders.

 Statistical Medicine and Molecular Biology (Bailey, Donovan,
 Lynch, Minas, Papathomas, Worthington, Valletta)
 This group was founded in 2017 with the appointment of Lynch as
 professor. There are strong interactions with the Mathematical
 Biology Group, our Schools of Medicine and Biology and with
 pharmaceutical and medical organisations including NHS. The group’s mission is to
 develop new methodologies and collaborate in applied studies to advance our understanding of
 biology and to improve medical outcomes. Significant strengths include methods for high-
 throughput genomic technologies, statistical genetics, stochastic modelling, estimation and
 analysis of dynamic gene networks, design of experiments, cancer research (including
 contributions to the International Cancer Genome Consortium and membership of the
 international PanProstate Cancer Group), medical imaging, modelling infectious diseases and
 health psychology.

 History of Mathematics (Craik*, I.Falconer, Hood, Kent, O’Connor*, Phillips*,
 Robertson*, Roney-Dougal)
 Even without specialist staff, History of Mathematics at St Andrews has long
 enjoyed an international reputation, with the library’s major historical collection
 and as home to the vast web-based MacTutor History of Mathematics Archive,
 recognised by the LMS Hirst Prize in 2015. Since 2014 small grants totalling
 £77k have supported a major international conference, 3 workshops on history topics, a long
 term visiting fellow programme, regular short term visitors, 4 PhD students, and 30 short project
 undergraduate researchers. Recent additions to MacTutor include newly-researched biographies
 of African mathematicians, particularly women, about whom very little information was previously
 available. Two specialists in history of mathematics were recently appointed to develop research
 and ensure ongoing impact for MacTutor.


 Support for interdisciplinary research
 The School is a key partner in four of the University’s interdisciplinary centres set up to facilitate
 collaborative research across the University and with external stakeholders; these all relate to

                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University or Research Council priority areas. Three are long-standing: CREEM (Centre for
 Research into Ecological and Environmental Modelling with Schools of Biology and Geography)
 www.creem.st-andrews.ac.uk, CIRCA (Centre for Interdisciplinary Research in Computational
 Algebra with Computer Science) www-circa.mcs.st-and.ac.uk, and the SOI (Scottish Oceans
 Institute with Biology, Earth and Environmental Sciences, Geography and Sustainable
 Development) https://soi.st-andrews.ac.uk. These centres have their own homes: CREEM
 occupies the Observatory Building, CIRCA has a dedicated area in the Mathematical Institute,
 and in 2019 SOI opened a shoreside £16M state-of-the-art research centre. The Mackenzie
 Institute for Early Diagnosis of Human Disease (with Medicine, Biology, Physics, Chemistry,
 Computer Science, Geography) http://med.st-andrews.ac.uk/mackenzie opened in 2019 and
 involves our new research groups in Statistical Medicine and Mathematical Biology working with
 the other Schools and NHS.
 These centres are foci for members from different schools to develop multidisciplinary
 collaborations, bringing mathematicians and statisticians into contact with laboratory and field
 scientists and opening up new funding opportunities. They promote national and international
 networking through hosting conferences and visitor programmes. Many School appointments
 since 2014 were made with membership of these centres in mind.
 Interdisciplinary research also develops through informal networking across the University, for
 example, recent funded joint workshops with International Relations on ‘Modelling spatial
 dynamics of conflict and terrorism’ and with Philosophy on ‘Mathematical collaboration’ have
 both engendered further research.

 Open research environment
 The School embraces the University’s commitment to an open research environment (ILES, 2.4)
 alongside the mathematics and statistics community ethos that completed research and data
 should be freely available and widely disseminated. As well as placing papers and software on
 the University’s publicly accessible research information system PURE, submitted and accepted
 manuscripts are routinely uploaded to Maths arXiv or bioRxiv for immediate free access. We
 increasingly publish gold open access papers partly facilitated by the University’s agreements
 with major publishers. All researchers have ORCID numbers.
 Major software packages developed in the School, such as GAP, Distance and Hydra (see
 Section 4) are free and open source. In 2019 the MacTutor History Archive was transferred to an
 open creative commons licence and migrated to a sustainable open source software platform.
 With its substantial computer- and data-intensive research the School ensures that data and
 computer code used can be freely accessed, used, modified and shared. Some data and code is
 stored directly on PURE, otherwise it is put into repositories (linked from PURE) such as
 publishers’ repositories or Github where, for example, the modelling software produced by the
 Mathematical Biology group is available. The Solar MHD Group, who produce many terabytes of
 output, have negotiated a data management plan with STFC to store source code and the data
 underlying figures appearing in papers. Some data for medical related research is stored in the
 huge European Genome-phenome Archive and equivalent repositories.

 Research integrity and ethical research
 The School is compliant with the several University and external statements on Good Research
 Conduct on the University website including the Concordat to Support Research Integrity (ILES,
 2.6). New staff and research students take a series of online training modules on these policies,

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 which are highlighted and linked in our School Handbook. All research involving humans or
 animals or requiring questionnaires must get prior approval from the School and/or University
 Ethics Committee, particularly relevant for our ecological, medical and biological applications.

 Section 2. People
 Staff development
 The School implements the principles of the Corcordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers. An individual induction plan is set up for all new academic and research staff.
 They are assigned a senior School member as a personal mentor and take standard training
 courses (e.g. Diversity, Computer Security) and a choice of many others (e.g. Attracting
 Research Funding, Networking, Research Leadership) from the University OSDS
 (Organisational and Staff Development Services) programme. A web-based School Handbook
 provides a quick reference with links to detailed information on all aspects of the School and
 University including development material for new and established staff. The School operates a
 comprehensive appraisal and development scheme for all staff on a yearly cycle, which includes
 discussions of research and impact directions and the promotion horizon. The reviewer is
 normally the Head of School, or PI for research staff, but staff may request an alternative
 reviewer for reasons of diversity characteristics. Crucially important are the research groups that
 provide subject specific support, with established members helping new researchers network,
 set up collaborations, identify grant and impact opportunities, and prepare applications.
 Several staff have participated in the joint mentoring scheme with Dundee and Abertay
 Universities that matches experienced academics with early career colleagues, others have
 participated in the University ‘Elizabeth Garrett’ scheme to support mid-level female staff to
 develop their careers.
 In 2016 the School introduced a workload allocation model to balance staff loads, taking into
 account research, impact work, PhD and postdoctoral supervision, grant income, internal and
 external service and teaching. The model ensures that staff can devote a substantial and
 appropriate amount of time to research but also helps optimise usage of the many varied talents
 across the School. New lecturers have reduced teaching loads for two years.
 Research active staff (including part time staff) may apply for paid research or impact leave of
 one semester in eight, normally granted given an appropriate work plan; most staff have taken
 such leave since 2014. Staff are strongly encouraged to participate in international conferences
 and research visits, with School funds available to supplement grants and conference funding.
 There is a flexible approach to teaching arrangements to facilitate such visits.
 Staff are encouraged and supported in applying for external funding. Senior staff routinely help
 early-career researchers with grant applications, including arranging mock presentations and
 interviews. This complements support from the University units (ILES, 4.1). Similarly, staff are
 supported in setting up impactful partnerships with organisations and industry through our
 extensive consultancy networks, our contacts with practitioners, particularly in statistics and
 medicine, and our Impact and Entrepreneurial Advisory Board.
 Achievement in research and impact is recognized through reach and significance of work,
 quality of papers, funding obtained, leadership, external recognition such as invited lectures,
 learned society positions and other esteem indicators. Research and impact achievements are
 highlighted in the monthly School Newsletter. The School enthusiastically encourages and
 supports promotion applications of staff whose activity is judged to be of the appropriate
 standard following annual review and in consultation with senior staff with promotions

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 determined by the Faculty Promotions Committee. Since 2014, 5 staff have been promoted to
 Chairs, 3 to Readerships, 2 to Senior Research Fellowships and 4 to Senior Lectureships.

 Staffing strategy
 In implementing the strategy in Section 1 the School combines strategic appointments at a
 senior level with appointing promising early career researchers, often linking such appointments
 to initial fellowships funded externally or by the University. Paramount is the selection of
 researchers with high potential, keeping in mind both enhancing and evolving existing activities
 and developing new directions. Appointments are advertised internationally and attract up to 150
 applicants, over 70% from abroad, with 9 appointments from UK, 4 from Europe and 4 from US
 since 2014. Appointment committees include male and female members who have all
 undergone ‘Recruitment and Selection’ and ‘Unconscious Bias’ training and who are involved
 from long-listing to interview and decision.
 Appointments since 2014 are consistent with our strategy. As well as two new professors, 13
 new earlier career staff will ensure the long-term vitality of the School.
 Specifically, professorial appointments have established two new impactful research areas. In
 Mathematical Biology: Chaplain, with supporting appointments of Lorenzi° and Venkataraman°,
 since replaced by Sfakianakis and Kursawe, with Stewart in evolutionary dynamics starting in
 January 2021. In Statistical Medicine: Lynch, appointed jointly with the School of Medicine,
 supported by Minas.
 Rees Jones in geophysical and environmental flows with synergies in the School of Earth and
 Environmental Sciences, and Burgess in vortex scaling have broadened Vortex Dynamics.
 In Pure Mathematics, Fraser’s appointment has ensured the School’s continuing reputation in
 fractal geometry and dynamics, and Theran in geometrical and algebraic combinatorics and Len
 in tropical and algebraic geometry have broadened Algebra and Combinatorics.
 Replacing departing staff provided an opportunity to broaden statistical ecology and statistical
 inference, bringing in Sutherland as Reader and early career Glennie and Worthington.
 St Andrews’ reputation in History of Mathematics has been consolidated with specialist
 academic staff for the first time with I.Falconer and Kent.
 Since 2014 the number of Category A staff has increased from 32 to 45 (30.6 to 42.0 FTE)
 (including 17 Professors, 6 Readers, 6 Senior Lecturers, 2 Senior Research Fellows) of whom
 12 are women (4 Professors, 1 Reader, 2 Senior Research Fellows, 3 Senior Lecturers). Each
 research group now has a balance of senior members and future leaders.
   Age range      25-34       35-44    45-54          55-64        65+        Male       Female
                 6 (13%)    11 (24 %) 15 (33%)       7 (16%)     6 (13%)    33 (73%)    12 (27%)
 Some 9 retired staff remain research active and have office space and research facilities; the
 School benefits enormously from their expertise and experience.
 Several staff who have developed their careers in St Andrews have moved to senior positions
 elsewhere including Illian°, King° and Langrock° who are professors at Glasgow, Edinburgh and
 Bielefeld respectively.




                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research staff
 The School currently has 28 postdoctoral research fellows (16M,12F), including 15 in CREEM,
 mainly working on ecological and environmental consultancies, and 6 in the Solar Group, funded
 by STFC and ERC. On several occasions the School has used its own funds to provide bridging
 for RAs between externally funded positions. Research staff are fully integrated into research
 groups and centres which provide support and mentoring, they participate in the OSDS career
 development programme, and a School Contract Research Group meets regularly. Research
 staff are represented on key School committees, including Staff Council and E&D Committee,
 and three are members of the University Research Staff Forum. Postdoctoral staff are offered
 the opportunity to teach if they feel the experience will help their career.
 Six staff have held early career personal fellowships during the period:
 Aguilar de Soto (Marie Curie), Burgess (Leverhulme), Glennie (Biometrika), Olukoya (LMS),
 Photopoulou (RS Newton International), Yavicoli (Swiss NSF).
 Many research staff go on to permanent academic positions, including recently to the
 Universities of Auckland(2), Cape Town, Edinburgh, Manchester, Northumbria and St Andrews.

 Visitors
 Since 2014 the School has hosted and provided office space and research facilities for over 60
 international visitors for a week to a year, many funded by EPSRC, Royal Society, LMS, etc..
 They include: Alfonso Caiazzo (Berlin), Gisela Cheoo (Lisbon), James East (Sydney), Katherine
 Hare (Waterloo), Allen Herman (Regina, Canada), Peter Mayr (Boulder, Colorado), Francesco
 Matucci (Unicamp, Brazil), Alia Sajjad (Windsor, Canada), Kathy Ruggiero (Auckland), Pablo
 Shmerkin (Buenos Aires), Zuzanna Szymańska (Warsaw), Sandro Vaienti (Marseille), Sanming
 Zhou (Melbourne).

 Professional service staff
 In 2019 a School Manager was appointed to restructure and modernize the School’s support
 structure and oversee support staff, as a result academic staff are spending noticeably less time
 on administration. The Solar Group and CREEM have dedicated secretaries funded from grant
 income and three other secretaries support the remaining areas. The School has four computer
 officers, including three funded by grant income to support CREEM, Solar MHD and HPC.

 Research students
 Recruitment
 Given its size, the School has been outstandingly successful in recruiting and training research
 students with 63 PhDs graduating since 2014 and the number of starting PhDs steadily
 increasing to 19 (10M,9F) in 2020. The number of interdisciplinary students jointly supervised
 with other schools continues to rise, currently three with Computer Science, two with Biology and
 one with Sustainable Development.
 There is a strong international presence, with recent students from Australia, China, Nigeria,
 Pakistan and South Africa. Several participate in a ‘Co-tutelle’ programme for joint PhD degrees
 with other universities, recently Aveiro, Évora, Grenoble, Lisboa and Porto. The School also
 hosts visiting PhD students for 2-12 months, recently from China, Czech Republic, France and
 Pakistan, with mutual benefit to them and our research groups.


                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 There are around 70 PhD applications each year, many from our own undergraduates or via our
 research groups’ international networks. Our Summer Research Programme gives a taste of
 research for over 20 good undergraduates about to enter their final year from St Andrews and
 elsewhere (recently Oxford, CalPoly, Shanghai, Ghana), funded by LMS, RAS, Carnegie,
 Cormack and Laidlaw foundations and the School, enthusing many to apply for PhD places.
 Applicants are encouraged to contact potential supervisors directly and promising applicants are
 invited to St Andrews to discuss their proposed studies (the School covers travel and overnight
 costs) or for an online discussion if from outside the UK.

 Funding
 As well as research councils, trusts and overseas government scholarships, a substantial
 amount of PhD funding comes from research overheads, consultancy income and School funds.
 Different sources are often combined imaginatively to maximize the overall benefit. The
 University runs several targeted schemes, including dedicated Interdisciplinary Scholarships and
 a full funding arrangement with the China Scholarship Council for Chinese students, and we
 have had several students under these schemes.

 Supervision and monitoring
 Supervisors must undergo University training on PhD supervision every five years. Each
 research student is assigned two supervisors (main and secondary, or joint), with
 interdisciplinary students having a co-supervisor from other schools. Students normally have
 weekly scheduled meetings with supervisors with informal contact often daily. There is a formal
 progress review at the end of each year, requiring a substantial write up and oral presentation by
 the student, assessments by supervisors and a staff member from a different area, and a
 confidential meeting with Postgraduate Committee members to identify problems students might
 feel unable to discuss with their supervisors. Meetings with supervisors are recorded at School
 level and the University records attendance at training events.

 Training
 General and transferable skills: All PhD students take part in the GRADskills programme of the
 Researcher Development Framework supported by the St Leonards’ Postgraduate College
 (ILES, 3.3). In particular, they chose two GRADskills workshops each semester, those on
 Scientific writing, Research data management and Conference presentation are found
 particularly useful. The School arranges training for students unfamiliar with LaTeX.
 Broad mathematics training: The School is a main partner in the Scottish Mathematical
 Sciences Training Centre (SMSTC) which provides 16 broad subject modules taught through a
 video-conference network. Students take up to 6 modules in their first PhD year selected in
 consultation with their supervisors. St Andrews staff lecture in 5 modules and are involved as
 module leaders and on the SMSTC Academic Steering Committee.
 Specialist training: Research groups arrange specialist training, e.g. courses in GAP algebra,
 parallel computing, STFC Summer Schools, a three month Solar MHD induction programme,
 SUPA (Scottish Universities Physics Alliance) courses and APTS (statistics training) weeks.
 Students also take appropriate modules from our Masters level portfolio.
 Nearly all research students tutor undergraduate groups. General and module-specific training is
 provided together with mentoring by staff.


                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Environment for research students
 Above all, it is the research groups that create a supportive and lively research environment in
 which PhD students, alongside staff, play a full part and develop both a broad perspective and
 specific expertise. All research students have a desk in an office shared with others with cognate
 interests and a suitable computer and software. Students interact informally with each other and
 with staff on a daily basis in our common spaces; with COVID-19 online networks have
 developed.
 Each student presents at least one research group seminar each year on their own or other
 recent work. Students also organise seminar programmes on their own initiative, including a
 weekly Postgraduate Student Seminar from which staff are specifically excluded. Each year
 students organise a Postgraduate Intradisciplinary Mathematics Symposium, a two-day retreat
 at The Burn, a Highland country house, where they give talks on their work and discuss research
 skills and career issues.
 All research students are funded (by the School if external funds are unavailable) to attend and
 speak at international conferences, to go on research visits and to participate in broader
 meetings for research students organised by LMS, EdinMS, SMSTC, etc. which facilitate
 networking and often collaborative work. Notably, our students organised the UK Young
 Researchers in Mathematics conference in St Andrews in 2016 as well as the national
 Postgraduate Group Theory Conference in 2018.
 Students are strongly encouraged to publish work when it reaches an appropriate stage. They
 often collaborate with other School members, not only their supervisors, and since 2014 over
 120 papers (single- or co-authored) have been published by research students.
 The University Advice and Support Centre covers all student matters and liaises with the School
 to support students with disabilities during recruitment and as research students. For example, a
 blind PhD student who recently graduated was provided with specialised reading and writing
 equipment and STFC funding for an accompanying guide for conferences.
 Several PhD students have won prizes: American Statistical Society Student Paper Prize
 (Stevenson, 2015), Best student talks at the International Statistical Ecology Conference
 (Glennie, Howe, Seattle 2016), TakeAIM (‘Articulating the Influence of Mathematics’) Prize of the
 Smith Institute (Franssen 2016 & 2018) for her work on modelling the spread of cancer, also a
 finalist in L’Oréal-UNESCO For Women in Science Award (2018) and a finalist in STEM for
 BRITAIN (2019). Other exceptional students include Han Yu, who published/submitted 20
 substantial analysis papers during his PhD period and went on to a Cambridge college
 fellowship, James Hyde, who had papers accepted in both the Annals and Inventiones shortly
 after completing his PhD, and Craig Johnston, whose innovative numerical code development
 for the solar community has reduced computation time for MHD calculations by an order of
 magnitude.
 Supervisors maintain a dialogue with students about their future careers, academic or non-
 academic, and this is routinely discussed during annual reviews; students may be referred to
 career-related GRADskills modules and the Careers Centre. About 50% go on to postdoctoral
 positions and about 30 of our PhD graduates from the past 15 years now hold permanent
 university positions; others take their skills outside academia, including recently: US National
 Solar Observatory, Met Office, GCHQ, Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources, International
 Council for Exploration of the Sea, i-Tech7 (subsea engineering), Deutsche Bank, Civil Service,
 University administration.

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 EDI policy (ILES, 3.1) is implemented throughout the School, overseen by our Equality and
 Diversity Committee. All staff take Equality and Diversity and Unconscious Bias training.
 The School received an Athena Swan Bronze Award in 2014 which was renewed in 2018 until
 2022. The feedback from Athena Swan particularly commended the School for female staff
 promotions, for introducing family friendly ‘core hours’ of 10am-3pm for seminars and meetings,
 for the monthly informal ‘lunch and chat’ discussion meetings for all staff, for 3 months of
 maternity leave for postdocs covered by School funds where not covered by grants, and for
 provision of onsite crèche facilities for conferences hosted by the School.
 Flexible working, including working at home, is supported with the proviso that staff are
 contactable; this became the norm during the COVID-19 outbreak. When allocating and
 timetabling teaching we try to ensure that those with family or caring responsibilities have
 lectures and tutorials times consistent with those responsibilities, for example some colleagues
 stop working mid-afternoon to collect schoolchildren and work in the evening. Staff returning
 from longer-term leave such as parental or sick leave are given reduced teaching loads. To
 facilitate caring responsibilities some postdocs and PhD students have permission to work
 remotely with periodic visits to St Andrews.
 A detailed E&D Action Plan was part of the 2018 Athena Swan presentation and was considered
 suitably SMART (Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Relevant and Time-bound). Included is a
 commitment to increase the number of female research students to 5% above the national
 average. Moreover, whilst the proportion of female professors of 24% (13M,4F) is above
 average, we strive to increase this to over 30%. We aim to ‘future proof’ the School’s position by
 focusing on recruitment opportunities at lecturer-level and the long-term flow from
 undergraduates to research students to researchers. The School is implementing this action
 plan to be in a position to apply for an Athena Swan Silver Award in 2022 with regular School
 surveys and data analyses to monitor progress.
 School management gives a high priority to health and well-being. For instance, adjustable
 height desks have been provided for several staff with back problems and a staff member with
 an arm injury was allocated personal secretarial support to alleviate writing difficulties.
 Not least, the School prides itself on providing a welcoming, collegial atmosphere, something
 often commented on by visitors. Staff and research students interact socially as well as
 academically, for example (during normal times) staff regularly bring cakes to coffee breaks and
 there is a twice-weekly lunchtime football game for School members.

 REF submission
 The School has followed the University Code of Practice in selecting outputs, with potential
 submissions graded by internal reviewers with grading moderated by external assessors to
 identify the best papers. The School’s REF panel underwent REF-specific training on Diversity,
 Unconscious Bias and GDPR. The panel held interviews with all researchers to consider special
 circumstances and potential EDI issues. The University REF E&D Review Group, a body
 independent of the output selection process, made decisions on independent researchers and
 determined output reductions in the light of staff circumstances. Of our submitted outputs, 27%
 have a female Category A or B staff member as an author and one of our four impact case
 studies was led by a woman.

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Income and research funding
 The School’s breadth of research allows access to a wide range of funding including from
 Research Councils, Scottish, UK and foreign Government bodies and NGOs, private companies,
 charities and international commissions. Since 2014 the School has received £14.25M grant and
 contract income across all research groups with an average annual income of £49.3k per FTE,
 plus £1.59M income in kind. The School’s own funds supplement each research group with a
 budget for travel, conferences, visitors and equipment.

 Strategy for generating income
 The School proactively explores income possibilities and identifies opportunities for diversifying
 and increasing funding. We raise awareness and disseminate information amongst staff about
 funding possibilities, identifying sources particularly appropriate for our specialisms. The
 Directors of Research and Impact circulate information, including monthly lists of subject specific
 calls and funding, and a University Business Development Manager visits the School monthly to
 discuss funding opportunities and provide guidance on applications. We make full use of the
 University Research Funding Support teams (ILES, 4.1) who provide support from writing
 applications through to managing awards, as well as negotiating with stakeholders and
 overseeing contracts.
 Staff are incentivised to obtain funding by being allocated a proportion of the overheads and with
 funding having significant weight in the workload model and in promotions. Earlier career staff
 are encouraged and mentored by senior staff in making grant applications.
 In particular we seek funding from calls in priority areas suited to our expertise, e.g. NERC
 Climate Resilience (cloud and climate modelling), EPSRC Mathematics in Healthcare (tumour
 growth modelling), BBSRC Data Driven Biology (Statistical Medicine). Our centres CREEM,
 CIRCA, SOI and Mackenzie attract considerable funding for interdisciplinary and impactful
 projects, increasingly so in medicine with our new research groups. We continue to identify
 potential collaborating institutions worldwide suitable for networking grants.
 We capitalise on our network of local, government, NGO and industrial contacts to increase
 consultancy and contract income, particularly through CREEM, in areas such as space weather,
 environmental applications of fluid dynamics, and medicine (e.g. CREEM has attracted
 consultancy worth £5.1M since 2014 with additional income from training workshops).
 We work with the University Development Team and Global Office to share our activities and
 successes with alumni and business leaders to raise money for targeted projects.
 We will apply for Centres for Doctoral Training in the next round, alongside partners in the
 Schools of Computer Science, Physics and Astronomy, Biology and Medicine.
 We will monitor national and international developments to be ready to take advantage of the
 recently announced £300M EPSRC funding for UK Mathematics and changes in funding
 opportunities.

 Funding obtained
 Major long term funding includes:




                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 • The Solar Group has been supported by an STFC Rolling Grant since 1986, renewed for
   £1.34M for 2016-19 and for £1.03M for 2019-22.
 • Archontis leads an ERC Synergy Grant from 2019-25 with Paris-Saclay, Oslo and the Max
   Plank Institute of €11.2M with €2.2M coming to St Andrews for The Whole Sun Project.
 • De Moortel has an ERC Consolidator Grant £2M for Multi-scale coronal heating, 2015-20.
 • Thomas has been awarded about £4M since 2014 in contracts largely from US Department of
   Navy and Office of Naval Research and Sea Mammal Research for projects involving impact
   on sealife.
 • Venkataraman° was a partner in a £3.3M EU Research Training Network grant with RWTH
   Aachen on Integrated component cycling in epithelial cell motility.
 • Mathematical Biology are partners in two collaborative grants: EPSRC £2M (with Glasgow,
   Heriot-Watt and Sheffield), and MRC £1.25M (with Dundee).
 • CIRCA has €900k of a 16 site €7.6M EC Horizon 2020 project for the Open Digital Research
   Environment Toolkit for the Advancement of Mathematics.
 • Income in kind of £1.59M for DiRAC computing and the ALMA radio telescope.
 We will obtain continuations or replacements of major funding in these areas to ensure their
 sustainability.
 Further exemplars of grants across our research areas:
 • Archontis, Royal Society £299k, Discovering the nature of outstanding aspects of solar
    activity.
 • Cairns*, EPSRC £760k (with Strathclyde) and £4.5M (with Glasgow, Strathclyde and
    Lancaster) for work on plasmas.
 • Scott, NERC £280k, Structure and transport properties of jets in the atmosphere and oceans.
 • Dritschel, EPSRC £474k, Diabatic evolution of clouds.
 • K.Falconer and Fraser, 4 grants totalling £950k from EPSRC and Leverhulme, projects on
    fractal geometry.
 • Bleak and Cameron, EPSRC £524k, Linking combinatorics (automata), group theory
    (Thompson groups and relatives) and dynamics (shift automorphisms).
 • Buckland, Borchers and Illian°, EPSRC £320k, Modelling spatial distribution and change from
    wildlife survey data.
 • Lynch, MRC £700k (Medicine and Biology Schools), Holistic approach to unravel antibacterial
    resistance in East Africa.
 • 5 recent grants totalling £152k from NHS-Scotland Rapid Response Programme and Scottish
    Government Restarting Research Fund for projects relating to COVID-19.
 • I.Falconer, Hood and Robertson, £77k in grants from many sources to support History of
    Mathematics projects and workshops.
 • Over 45 small grants totalling over £100k from LMS, EdinMS, RAS, RS, etc. are particularly
   beneficial for visits, visitors and conferences.

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 School organisation
 The School is managed by a Head of School in consultation with the School Management
 Group, which includes a Deputy Head, Directors of Research, Postgraduate Studies, Teaching
 and EDI, Heads of Pure, Applied and Statistics Divisions and School Manager. Several
 committees are particularly relevant to research and impact: Research, Postgraduate and

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Equipment Committees address matters spanning the research groups, allocate School
 resources, and link to University and external bodies. The Ethics Committee monitors projects
 where there may be ethical concerns.

 Communication
 Mechanisms for keeping staff informed on School and University matters and ensuring staff can
 input to management include twice yearly formal Staff Councils, a monthly informal ‘lunch and
 chat’ meeting, circulating committee minutes, a monthly School Newsletter, the School
 Handbook, and a twitter feed @StA_Maths_Stats. The Head of School traditionally operates an
 ‘open door’ policy to be easily accessible.

 Buildings
 Staff and postgraduate students are housed in two buildings: the Mathematical Institute and the
 nearby Observatory Building which houses CREEM and most of Statistics. Both have space to
 facilitate interaction and foster collaboration. Offices are provided for all staff, postdocs, research
 students, visitors and active retired staff. Both buildings have refurbished lecture and seminar
 rooms with multimedia facilities, computer laboratories, video conference suites and the all-
 important common rooms. An ongoing programme has refurbished about one third of offices
 since 2016. Both buildings are full to capacity and the University has approved a £20M,
 600sq.m. custom-designed building in the North Haugh science area to house all the School to
 bring together cognate research currently in two buildings and to allow further expansion.
 Completion was due in 2024, but will be delayed following COVID-19.

 Computing facilities
 The University High Performance Computing Board steers the University’s HPC strategy to
 ensure continuous funding and regular upgrading for HPC resources. Solar, Vortex and
 Mathematical Biology groups are major users of the 3520 core Kennedy cluster. Statistical
 Medicine uses the Bioinformatics 320 core cluster STABU and CREEM has 4 dedicated
 workstations totalling 140 cores.
 The Solar Group leads the UKMHD Consortium which coordinates UK community access for
 MHD researchers to the STFC DiRAC supercomputer. The Vortex Group regularly use the
 UKRC facility ARCHER.
 All staff and PhD students have up to date desktop/laptop computers as standard and specialist
 software as required. Safe arrangements were made to maintain computers used at home
 during COVID-19, with tablets and other equipment dispatched where required, supported by
 our computer officers and central IT services.

 Library resources
 The University has a large refurbished Main Library, complemented by the Maths/Physics
 Library adjacent to the Mathematical Institute. There are 2000+ e-journals in mathematics,
 statistics and physics, providing direct access from office or home to almost all relevant research
 journals and to e-books and databases; a reciprocal arrangement with 20 other university
 libraries further extends access. CIRCA and CREEM have their own specialist resource areas.
 The School’s library budget is sufficient to purchase research books where needed. Under the
 University Library 10 year Strategic Plan the School will benefit in particular from the focus on
 provision of material in a digital, searchable, form, together with support for data intensive and

                                                                                                Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 open access research. The library has a superb collection of historic mathematics books and
 manuscripts, including the James Gregory, J.D. Forbes and D’Arcy Thompson archives, a major
 resource for history of mathematics and for regular public displays.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Collaboration
 Collaboration is universal in the School’s research: of the 1400+ papers published by members
 of the School since 2014 over 95% are multi-authored, 70% have collaborators from outside the
 School and 50% have collaborators from abroad. (Cameron alone has had 60 different
 collaborators since 2014 including 47 new co-authors.) Our research groups’ and centres’
 networks facilitate collaborations locally and globally. Many School members are involved in
 funded international or national networks. However, many collaborations are initially
 opportunistic resulting from interactions during conferences or visits, often leading to grant
 funding.
 Mechanisms to support collaborative research include: research leave arrangements (ILES, 2.3),
 teaching cover to enable short visits, School funds available for visits, support for internet
 networking including video conference suites, research facilities for visitors and an annual
 research day to showcase work and identify potential collaborations.
 Much research is at the same time collaborative, interdisciplinary and impactful and many
 exemplars below would fit under multiple headings.

 Exemplars of collaboration
  • Considerable funded network participation: UKMHD Consortium (lead), NASA (e.g. MUSE,
    SOLARIS) and ESA mission (e.g. Solar Orbiter) networks, Solar ERC Synergy Grant (with
    Paris-Saclay, Oslo and Max Plank Institute), LMS Scheme 3 Networks One Day Ergodic
    Theory Meetings, North British Semigroups and Applications, North British Geometric Group
    Theory, Scottish Network Groups, Generalisations and Applications.
  • St Andrews is lead partner in the National Centre for Statistical Ecology with 7 UK universities
    and 5 partner institutes, providing workshops, video-linked seminars and the main biennial
    statistical ecology conference.
  • ‘Research in pairs/groups’ grants: LMS (Fraser, Kempton, I.Falconer), ICMS (Todd),
    Schrödinger Institute (Todd), Oberwolfach (Bleak, Fraser).
  • Ruskuc EPSRC collaboration grants: £35k with Western Sydney University on Diagram
    monoids, £97k with Heriot-Watt and York on semigroups.
  • Todd A transdisciplinary project with 8 collaborators culminating in a definitive 312 page book
    Extremes and recurrence in dynamical systems.
  • Borchers LMS scheme Mentoring African Research in Mathematics: Methods for modelling
    bird distribution in South Africa, with University of Cape Town researchers.
  • De Moortel Frequent collaborative visits as Affiliate Scientist at the High Altitude Observatory
    (Boulder, Colorado), and adjunct professor at the Rosseland Centre for Solar Physics (Oslo).
  • Vortex group Collaborations with the Met Office include two CASE studentships on cloud and
   climate modelling.
  • Lynch Collaboration with STORM Therapeutics (Cambridge) for statistical analysis of product
   data.




                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Further exemplars of impact and engagement with users
 Projects other than the submitted case studies include:
  • CIRCA has developed software for industrial partners, including Spatial Flow Ltd., SimpleHelp
    Ltd., and NHS Lothian. CIRCA maintains the Constraint Modelling Pipeline providing a world-
    class platform for automatically modelling and solving complex combinatorial optimisation
    problems, from domains such as planning, scheduling, configuration and design.
  • Carr° (whilst on impact leave) and Dritschel undertook an EPSRC IAA funded project to
    model the dynamics of oxygen depletion in the Clyde estuary and improve water quality,
    which is being adopted by the Scottish Environmental Protection Agency.
  • Bailey has devised new designs for first-in-human dose-escalation trials for new drugs which
    reduce the estimator variances in earlier methods by a factor of three. Several drug
    companies are investigating applying to the European Medicines Agency for approval to use
    the method.
  • Antolin and De Moortel are Co-Is on a NASA Lockheed Martin satellite project, providing
    model-based predictions to determine instrument specifications.
  • Mackay had a £21k STFC IAA collaboration with the Met Office to improve space weather
    predictions, a case study featured in the UKRI booklet ‘From Knowledge to Impact: STFC
    Impact Acceleration Account’
  • The Mathematical Biology Group have engaged with NHS Scotland and healthcare
    organisations to pilot three projects on mathematical modelling leading to improved patient
    care on tuberculosis, breast cancer invasion, and radiotherapy and chemotherapy treatment.
  • Borchers and Menze Collaborations with HiDef Aerial Survey Ltd. on developing methods for
    aerial survey.

 Exemplars of interdisciplinary research
  • CIRCA undertakes wide-ranging computer assisted mathematical research, developing new
    techniques for computation in abstract algebra. This feeds into the open access algebra
    software system GAP (Groups, Algorithms, Programs) providing a vast range of algorithmic
    mathematical tools used across research, industry and education, with St Andrews one of five
    international coordinating centres. Recent input from St Andrews includes a comprehensive
    software package on semigroups and a data library of primitive permutation groups.
  • CREEM has many interdisciplinary collaborations with Biology, particularly on ecology and
    the environment, e.g. Thomas and Harris (Biology) a recent £799k grant to study the effects
    of multiple stressors on marine mammals. See also Section 1 ‘Statistical Ecology’ and impact
    case studies.
  • Fraser was the first pure mathematician selected for the Scottish Crucible in its 10-year
    history (an RSE development scheme for early career researchers), leading to funded
    interdisciplinary projects on multifractal analysis to determine the health of Scotland’s maerl
    (algae) beds, and on the dynamics of debate.
  • Chaplain, Kursawe and Sfakianakis have ongoing interdisciplinary collaborations with
    cardiovascular surgeons, oncologists and cell biologists.
 MapMySmoke, a phone app to help users monitor and quit smoking, was developed with Computer
 Science, Medicine and two external collaborators.

 Sharing research expertise
 Much of our teaching is research-driven to inspire and prepare students for postgraduate work or
 industry, with advanced undergraduate/MSc modules covering all research areas. Since 2018
 we have set up MScs in Statistical Ecology, Digital Health (with Medicine) and (from 2021)
 Mathematical Biology, as well as maintaining longer-standing MScs including Applied Statistics
 and Datamining and Data-Intensive Analysis (with Computer Science). We contribute to
                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 interdisciplinary MScs run by the University Graduate Centre on Conservation Science and
 International Development Practice. The School’s Summer Research Programme helps good
 undergraduates experience research with published papers often resulting.
 Recent books aimed at practitioners and/or researchers include Borchers, Buckland et al.
 Modelling Population Dynamics; Buckland et al. Distance Sampling: Methods and Applications;
 Cameron Notes on Counting: An Introduction to Enumerative Combinatorics; K.Falconer Fractal
 Geometry (3rd ed.); Fraser Assouad Dimension in Fractal Geometry; Roberts* MHD Waves in
 the Solar Atmosphere.
 St Andrews has authored and continues to develop openly available software packages: Hydra
 for studying fluid dynamics of the atmosphere and oceans; Distance for estimating wildlife
 abundance; GAP (Groups, Algorithms, Programs) algebra software. St Andrews hosts regular
 user workshops for Distance and GAP and free online workshops (developed under a University
 IAA), for example the Distance workshops have attracted over 800 people from 67 countries.
 Through its commitment to the history of mathematics, including the MacTutor website (8 million
 hits each month) and its historic library collections, St Andrews makes a unique contribution to
 the research base and the common good of the discipline.

 Outreach and public engagement
 Our research areas (e.g. wildlife statistics, cancer research, fractals, history of mathematics) are
 ideally suited to outreach and public engagement. Our Outreach Team coordinates
 presentations to young and adult audiences on a wide range of research related topics. CREEM
 has its own team, with its leader part-funded specifically for outreach and engagement, which
 won a University award for excellence. Many staff give lectures or displays at public events
 including British Science Festival, Edinburgh Science Festival, Gresham College, Maths Week
 Scotland, annual local Science Festivals, and in many schools. Four female staff regularly
 participate in multi-school regional meetings to enthuse pupils, particularly girls, into
 mathematics. Staff have been panellists on radio programmes, especially history of mathematics
 topics, including six Radio 4 In Our Time programmes and The Curious Cases of Rutherford and
 Fry, and have been consultants for many radio and TV programmes. For visitors we have
 designed a walking tour of St Andrews taking in 30 locations with mathematical or scientific
 connections.

 Indicators of wider influence
 Prizes and distinctions
 The School has gained prizes across its research areas:
  RAS Chapman Medal: Hood, 2015
  RAS Geophysics Group Achievement Award: UKMHD Consortium Team led by Hood, 2015
  RSE Lord Kelvin Medal: Hood, 2020
  European Geophysical Union - Hannes Alfvén Medal: Priest*, 2017
  Solar Physics Division of European Physical Society - Senior Prize: Priest*, 2020
  Leon Davies Medal of Astronomical Society of Glasgow: Parnell, 2018
  European Society for Mathematical and Theoretical Biology - Reinhart Heinrich Prize:
   Kursawe, 2018
  Lee Segel Prize for best paper in Bulletin of Mathematical Biology: Chaplain & coauthors, 2014
  RSS Guy Medal in Gold: Buckland, 2019

                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  LMS Hirst Prize: O’Connor* & Robertson*, 2015
  LMS Senior Whitehead Prize: Cameron, 2017
  LMS Shephard Prize: K.Falconer, 2020
  Elected FRSE: De Moortel, 2015, Bailey, 2015, Cameron, 2018, Borchers 2020; 9 current (+6
    retired) staff are FRSE and Priest* is FRS
  Elected to RSE Young Academy: Fraser, 2018, Bowness, 2018
  Elected Fellow of the Society of Mathematical Biology: Chaplain, 2017

 Personal fellowships
 6 established staff have held personal fellowships:
   Royal Society University Fellowship: Archontis
   Royal Society Wolfson Fellowship: De Moortel
   STFC Ernest Rutherford Fellowship: Antolin
   Leverhulme: Scott, Fraser, Borchers,

 External service
 Staff support the discipline in many roles including:
 (a) Funding panels
  UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships: De Moortel
  EPSRC Grants Panels: Bailey, Bleak, Fraser, Ruskuc
  EPSRC Peer Review College: Bailey, Chaplain, K.Falconer, Reinaud, Ruskuc
  STFC Ernest Rutherford Fellowships: Archontis, De Moortel
  STFC Astronomy Grants Panel (Solar Studies): Mackay
  STFC Solar System Advisory Panel: De Moortel (Chair), Hood
  NASA Grants Panel for Heliophysics: De Moortel, Hood
  Cancer Research UK Multidisciplinary Expert Review Panel: Chaplain
  Academy of Finland - Mathematics Panel: K.Falconer
  Polish National Science Centre Expert Panel: De Moortel (Chair)

 (b) Other external roles
  EPSRC/KTN Review panel for Bond Review of Knowledge Exchange in Mathematical
    Sciences: Bleak
  EPSRC Mathematical Sciences Review Panel: De Moortel
  REF 2021 Mathematical Sciences Panel: Chaplain, Fraser
  INI Scientific Steering Committee: Chaplain
  ICMS: De Moortel (Board), Chaplain (Programme Committee)
  LMS: Chaplain (Council), Cameron (Prizes Cttee.), K.Falconer (Chair, Nominating Cttee.),
    I.Falconer (Library Cttee.), Fraser (International Affairs Cttee.), Roney-Dougal (Development
    Cttee.), Todd (Lectures & Meetings Cttee.),
  Edinburgh MS: De Moortel (President), Huczynska (Chair, Education Cttee.), Carr°, Quick,
    Sfakianakis (Council)
  BMC Steering Committee: Huczynska, Todd
  British Science Festival - Mathematical Sciences Section: Roney-Dougal (President)
  European Solar Physics Division: De Moortel (Secretary)
  ESA VOYAGE2050 Topical Team: De Moortel
  ESA Solar Orbiter planning group: Mackay

                                                                                          Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  NASA Working Group on Magnetic Flux Ropes: Mackay
  STFC Post Launch Support Cttee.: De Moortel
  STFC Skills and Engagement Advisory Board: De Moortel
  RAMP Leader of Task Team on within-host dynamics of COVID-19: Chaplain
  British Combinatorial Committee: Cameron (Chair), Huczynska
  RSS Working Group on guidelines for EMA first-in-human clinical trials: Bailey
  British and Irish Region of International Biometric Society: Lynch (Council)
  Fisher Memorial Trust: Bailey (Trustee)
  Scientific Advisory Board: Global Snow Leopard Ecosystem Protection Program PAWS Survey
    Initiative: Borchers (Chair)
  US NAS panel on impacts of anthropogenic stressors on marine mammals: Thomas
  International Commission for History of Mathematics: I.Falconer (IMU-elected rep.)
  British Society for History of Mathematics: I.Falconer (Council)
  James Clerk Maxwell Foundation: I.Falconer (Trustee)

 Conference organisation
 School members are energetic in organising conferences, research programmes and workshops
 in St Andrews and elsewhere. Most are funded by substantial grants with organisers writing
 funding bids. Such funding is paid directly to the host institution so for external meetings does
 not feature in our research income.
 Major conferences at St Andrews:
  British Applied Mathematical Colloquium, 2018
  British Mathematical Colloquium, 2018
  International Statistical Ecology Conference, 2018
  British Colloquium for Theoretical Computer Science, 2017 (CIRCA)
  Big Data and Discrete Mathematics, 2016
  Young Researchers in Mathematics, 2016
  International Conference on Geophysical and Astrophysical Vortex Interactions, 2019
 Over 25 other specialist workshops and conferences have been organized in St Andrews since
 2014. Several in 2020 were postponed and/or took place online.
 ‘Groups St Andrews’, the foremost international group theory meeting, is organised by St
 Andrews staff every four years since 1985, including at Birmingham (2017) and Newcastle
 (postponed to 2022).
 Long-term research programmes organised:
  Mittag-Leffler Institute: Fractal Geometry and Dynamics (K.Falconer, co-principal organiser,
     Sep-Dec 2017)
  Mittag-Leffler Institute: Mathematical Biology (Chaplain, co-organiser, Sep-Dec 2018)
  Isaac Newton Institute: Groups, Representations and Applications (Roney-Dougal, principal
     organiser, Jan-Jun 2020)
 External conferences organised include:
  Design and Analysis of Experiments in Healthcare (INI, Bailey, co-organiser)
  Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund and UK Mathematical Sciences (ICMS, Bleak, co-
     organiser)
  Computational and multiscale mathematical modelling of cancer growth and spread (ICMS,
     Chaplain, organiser)
  Thermodynamic Formalism in Dynamical Systems (ICMS, Todd, co-organiser)

                                                                                           Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  New Perspectives on State-Space Models (Banff International Research Station, Thomas, co-
     organiser)
  Extreme Value Theory and Laws of Rare Events (CIRM, Todd, co-organiser)
  Permutation Groups and Transformation Semigroups (LMS-EPSRC Durham Symposium,
     Cameron & Mitchell, co-organisers)
  Biennial History and Teaching of Mathematics Conference, Hungary (Robertson* Chair since
     2014)
 Special Conferences:
  K.Falconer 60th birthday (Paris-Saclay)
  Cameron 70th birthday (Lisbon)

 Editorial
 Since 2014 staff have been on over 26 editorial boards including: Advances in Mathematics,
 Australian J. Combinatorics (Cameron, Hon. Ed in Chief), J. Agricultural, Biological,
 Environmental Statistics (Buckland, Ed. in Chief), Biometrics, Fluid Dynamics, Historia
 Mathematica, J. Atmospheric Science, J. RSS Ser.C, J. Theoretical Biology (Chaplain, Co-Ed. in
 Chief), LMS Lecture Notes, Proc. Edinburgh Mathematical Soc. (Quick, Board convener), Royal
 Society Open Science (Chaplain, Maths Subject Ed.), Royal Society Transactions A, Solar
 Physics.
 All staff regularly referee journal papers, grant proposals and book proposals. Todd was
 Reviewer of the Year 2017 for Nonlinearity, Threlfell (postdoc) was Most Valued Reviewer 2018
 by New Astronomy, and Cairns* was recognised for Extraordinary Service in Reviewing 2017 by
 Physics of Plasmas.

 Invited lectures
 Hundreds of plenary and invited lectures at international and national conferences, including:
  Priest*: Birkeland Lecture (Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters)
  De Moortel: Lord Kelvin Award Lecture (British Science Festival), Charlotte Scott Lecture
     (Lincoln)
  King°, Roney-Dougal: LMS Popular Lectures
  Cameron: John Venn Lecture (Hull)
  Parnell: Leon Davies Lecture (Glasgow)
  K.Falconer: Lewis Fry Richardson Lecture (York)
  Fraser: Opening lecture, Fractals and Stochastics 6 (Bad Herrrenalb, Germany)
  Cameron: Opening lecture, From permutation groups to model theory (ICMS)
  Chaplain: Plenary, Annual Meeting of Society of Mathematical Biology (Utah)
  Borchers: Plenary, International Statistical Ecology Conf. (Sydney-online)
  Bailey: Opening lecture, Model-Oriented Data Analysis and Optimal Design (Slovak Acad.
     Sci.)




                                                                                           Page 23
