Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: 10007140 Birmingham City University
 Unit of Assessment: 33 (Music and Performing Arts)
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Research structure
Royal Birmingham Conservatoire (RBC) is a vibrant and wide-ranging centre for education and
research in Music and Performing Arts, formed from the merging of Birmingham Conservatoire
and Birmingham School of Acting (BSA) in 2017. RBC’s new title and award-winning new
building at the heart of BCU’s City Centre Campus reflect its increasing profile as an international
centre of excellence.

RBC builds on well-established traditions of research in Music, first returned to RAE in 1996, and
with a history in practice research (composition) stretching back to the foundation of Birmingham
School of Music in 1886. Conversely, research at BSA (founded 1936) is a new activity since
REF2014; the development of a research culture in Acting, Dance and allied Performing
Arts has been a key strategic aim during this period.

Our research community currently comprises 35 independent researchers with significant
responsibility for research (SRR), 9 emerging researchers (ER, staff working towards independent
researcher status), and 48 doctoral researchers. We also host 4 visiting research fellows (VRF,
non-stipendiary) and support the research activities of 18 visiting lecturers (VL, hourly-paid
teaching staff).

RBC sits within BCU’s Faculty of Arts, Design and Media (ADM), through which research
activity is strategically coordinated. RBC represents UoA33 as one of ADM’s four UoA-based
research centres, each with a similar directorate structure, currently:

   •   Director: Savan (formerly Mawer 2015-18; Woodley 2010-15).
   •   Associate Directors for:
           o Careers, outputs and impact: Dingle (Music) and Dundjerovic (Performing Arts).
           o External income: Mawer and Whyton (shared with UoA34).
           o Doctoral education: Churnside.

RBC research is focused through eight research clusters (expanded from the four included in
REF2014):

   •   Conservatoire Composition Cluster (CCC: 11 SRR, 13 PGR), co-led by Cutler and
       Wolters, covers a wide aesthetic and performative spectrum, from score-based and
       improvisational work through to advanced computer-based research into the live interaction
       of digital technologies with human performers. CCC hosted the ACE-funded ‘for-Wards’
       project, 2014-16 (£161k; see 3.1); members have attracted awards (non-HESA) totalling
       £385k since 2014 (see 3.4).

   •   Early Music Theory (EMT: 3 SRR), led by Dean, derives from two major AHRC-funded
       projects focused on the late-medieval theorist Johannes Tinctoris (combined value £1.2m;
       see section 3.1). EMT also incorporates the cross-institutional Representation of Early
       Music on Stage and Screen study group (REMOSS, led by Whittaker).

   •   French Music Research Hub (FMRH: 4 SRR, 7 PGR, 1 VRF), co-led by Mawer and
       Dingle, brings together world-leading expertise in specific areas of French music studies
       (historical, analytical and critical musicology), and aims to foster the highest standards of
       scholarly engagement with, and performance-based practice of, a broad repertoire of
       French music (especially C17, C18 and C20). FMRH hosted the AHRC-funded project,
       ‘Accenting the Classics’, 2016-19 (£462k; see 3.1).




                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Integra Lab (Integra: 3 SRR, 5 PGR), is a Music Technology research group led by
       Coccioli. Building on the legacy of a €3.1m EU-funded project, ‘Fusing Music and
       Technology’ (2005-12), Integra explores three main research themes: Music Interaction
       Design, Composition and Performance with Technology, and Sustainability in the Creation
       and Performance of Music with Live Electronics. Integra currently hosts the AHRC-funded
       project, ‘Augmented Vocality’ (2020-2022; £480k; see 3.1).

   •   (new: 2017) Forum for 17th and 18th Century Music (F17/18CM: 8 SRR, 5 PGR, 1 VRF,
       2 external Professors Emeritus), led by Churnside, brings together leading musicologists
       and performers in the field of Baroque music, with particular interests in historical
       performance practice and critical editing as a foundation for research-informed
       performance.

   •   (new: 2014) Jazz Research (UoA33/34, 13 SRR, 6 PGR) is an interdisciplinary, cross-
       faculty research group, led by Gebhardt (Birmingham Centre for Media and Cultural
       Research BCMCR, UoA34), with RBC strand led by Whyton; a collaboration which has
       significantly expanded the range of research possible at RBC though the interaction of
       composition, performance and jazz theory.

   •   (new: 2017) Performance Research Hub (PRH: UoA33/32, 13 SRR, 12 PGR, 2 VRFs),
       interdisciplinary, cross-faculty cluster, with leads in Music (Savan), Performing Arts
       (Dundjerovic), and Transmedia Arts (Day, UoA32), developing best practice in
       performance-led research and its articulation. PRH members have attracted funding (non-
       HESA) totalling £427k since 2014 (see 3.4). PRH interfaces with the Centre for
       Interdisciplinary Performative Arts (CIPA), led by Dundjerovic, described in 1.6 below.

   •   (new: 2017) Birmingham Music Education Research Group (BMERG: UoA23/33, 5
       SRR, 8 PGR), cross-university cluster, led by Fautley (hosted School of Education, HELS
       faculty); RBC contribution led by Whittaker.

The UoA research directorate and cluster leads meet regularly (normally once per term) as the
Conservatoire Research Advisory Group (CRAG) to oversee research strategy at RBC in
relation to faculty and university policies and priorities.


1.2 Review of 2014 Research Strategy
Our strategic plan in REF2014 was largely predicated on further development of recognised
successes. Our objectives have mostly been realised or exceeded, as summarised below:

 Objective:                                 Outcome:
 (a) seek follow-up funding for Integra     3 AHRC grants awarded for projects with total value
 projects.                                  £587k: see 3.1. Additional BCU investment of £62k
                                            awarded for development of Integra Live software
                                            (2018): see 3.2.
 (b) establish Birmingham Record            BRC now fully established; 8 releases to date with
 Company as a label for new music           international distribution via NMC Recordings (since
 focused on widening audience base.         2018).
 (c) seek follow-on funding for AHRC        AHRC grant secured for ‘Interpreting the Mensural
 Tinctoris project.                         Notation of Music’ (2017-2022): see 3.1.
 (d) seek external funding for extension    External funding not achieved but Dingle’s project led
 of Dingle’s project in C20 British music   to publication of ground-breaking Cambridge History
 criticism.                                 of Music Criticism (2019), finalist (2 categories) in
                                            2020 Prose Awards (Association of American
                                            Publishers).



                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (e) French Music Research Hub to seek      AHRC grant awarded for ‘Accenting the Classics’
 funding for major collaborative projects   (2016-19): see 3.1. FMRH’s position as a world-
 (UK and abroad), conferences and           leading research group consolidated by hosting
 networking events; including cross-        international conferences (2014, 2018), and edited
 institution project bid to AHRC.           volume, Historical Interplay in French Music
                                            (Routledge, 2018): see 4.1.
 (f) support developing cluster in jazz     Jazz Research has flourished in collaboration with
 research, particularly its                 cultural researchers in jazz and popular music in
 interconnections between composition,      BCMCR (UoA34), creating one of the world’s largest
 performance and theoretical                concentrations of jazz researchers in a single
 musicology; and interdisciplinary links    institution. Key indicators of success from RBC’s
 with other cultural research in popular    involvement include Mawer’s monograph, French
 music undertaken in the School of          Music and Jazz in Conversation (CUP, 2014); Whyton
 Media.                                     (co-ed.), Routledge Companion to Jazz Studies
                                            (2018); and development of practice-led PhD projects
                                            in Jazz (3 completions to date), including RBC
                                            teaching staff (1 completion; 3 in progress).
 (g) continued support for existing         F17/18CM now brings together the strongest
 strengths in Baroque musicology, and       concentration of expertise in Baroque Music within the
 film & television music (Halfyard).        UK. As a signifier of reputational esteem RBC was
                                            chosen to host the international 2020 Biennial
                                            Baroque Conference (Covid19-postponement: 2021).

                                            Halfyard left RBC in 2019 (having published her
                                            monograph on Music in Cult TV, 2016). Screen music
                                            now represented by REMOSS, including
                                            Recomposing the Past, co-edited Whittaker (Ashgate,
                                            2018).
 (h) ongoing development of research        PRH provides a coherent and inclusive research
 activity among part-time/fractional        framework for all performance staff, including part-
 performance staff regarded as a high       time and visiting lecturers.
 priority.
 (i) other composition, performance and     ADM’s Faculty Research Investment Scheme
 musicology projects to bid for internal    (FRIS) has supported development of individual
 funding, supported by university-wide      research projects leading to musicological and
 research strategy to invest in             practice-led outputs, and external funding bids. Total
 acknowledged areas of excellence.          FRIS investment in UoA33: £165,919 (see 3.2).
 (j) continued healthy recruitment of       Discussed in 2.2; in summary, PGR recruitment has
 doctoral research students, supported      been robust, exceeding expectations for growth, with
 by University strategy of PGR              significant increase in PhD completions.
 investment.
 (k) new AHRC-funded Midlands3Cities        Consortium membership has resulted in marked
 Consortium for PGR funding noted as a      increase in funded studentships at RBC (see 2.2).
 positive development.


1.3 Strategy to 2020
Performing Arts research beyond Music became integral to our post-2014 strategy anticipating
the merger with Acting (2017). We have made 4 new appointments (SRR: see 2.1), nurtured
research potential among existing staff (3 ERs), and expanded our doctoral community in Acting
and Dance (10 PGRs).

Since 2014 we have raised our research ambitions in line with RBC’s increasing international
profile, using REF metrics as KPIs, formalised in a strategy document approved by ADM’s Faculty
Research Committee (FRC) in 2016. In summary:



                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Within the conservatoire sector (Music), Birmingham Conservatoire came joint 3rd in GPA and 1st
for research power in REF2014. Building on this strong performance, our overall strategic aim for
REF2021 was to improve the quality of our research to lift our UoA league-table position from the
mid-40s to the top 25-30.

Enabling objectives:
   • Raise research-active FTE (SRR) from 17 (REF2014) to 20-25 [actual FTE returned 29.7];
       improve output profile, from 50% 2* (REF2014), to 50% 3* (REF2021) and from 14% to
       25% at 4*. This to be achieved by implementing an effective mentoring scheme and new
       research management processes including regular peer review.
   • Consolidate and expand our research clusters (as above).
   • Increase external research income from £1.13m (REF2014) to at least £1.5m (REF2021)
       [actual income achieved: £1.6m].
   • Expand PGR community and significantly increase PhD completions, aiming for 35+ by
       the census date [actual completions: 49].
   • Improve environment rating from: 3*(70)/4*(20) to 3*(60)/4*(40), through combined
       improvements at Faculty and UoA levels, including move to new Conservatoire
       building/facilities [see 3.3].
   • Improve research impact profile: aspiring to reverse figures from 3*(60)/4*(40); to
       3*(40)/4*(60).


1.4 Ensuring vitality and sustainability of impact
Our 2014-20 strategic objectives for maximising research impact were to:
    • Integrate impact into music and performing arts research through a combination of:
          o designated Associate Director responsibility for impact; and
          o creation of bodies of research linked to clear external engagement and pathways to
              impact.
    • Build upon existing research networks and enhance staff skills to establish effective
       pathways to impact. This has been achieved by:
          o developing RBC’s existing public engagement programme as a city-centre
              performing arts venue, including specialist research-intensive festivals (see 4.3).
          o building on and developing strategic relationships with cultural organisations,
              broadcast networks, professional practitioners and other stakeholders in our
              research, locally, nationally and internationally (see 4.2).
          o workshops provided via ADM’s Researcher Education Development programme
              (see 2.1).
    • Support researchers to evidence reach and significance of their impact; achieved by:
          o Engagement of external impact consultant at faculty level.
          o Employment of RAs at UoA level to collect impact data for internal/external audit.
Success of this strategy is evidenced in our Impact Case Studies. In summary:

   •   ICS-A: From Archives to Stage: Enabling New Performances of French Music through
       Editing (FMRH); public performances and broadcasts at high-profile venues ranging from
       RBC’s own concert halls to the BBC Proms and major opera houses worldwide.
   •   ICS-B: Building Creative Communities through New Music (CCC); impact stems from
       community engagement and collaboration at the heart of the research process, whether
       with amateur participants (for-Wards) or professional ensembles, setting new benchmarks
       for community/curatorial practice.
   •   ICS-C: Transforming Choral Experiences: Expanding Repertoire, Enhancing Cultural Life,
       Widening Opportunities (PRH, F17/18CM): impact on choral programming and practices
       worldwide, stemming from RBC’s strategic engagement with Birmingham choral group Ex
       Cathedra.
Further examples of impact are documented in 4.2/4.3, below.



                                                                                           Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.5 Strategic plan to 2025:
Our overall aim is for RBC to be a world-leading and inclusive centre for Music and
Performing Arts research, embodying conservatoire-level excellence within a modern
interdisciplinary university.

Following a period of expansion during 2014-20 (see 2.1/2.2), our strategy is to consolidate and
sustain these gains, especially as we respond to the post-Covid environment. Accordingly, our
strategic objectives are to:
1) Continue to promote an open, inclusive research environment, supporting staff
    development in line with the Vitae Concordat, underpinned by principles of equality and
    diversity.
2) Continue to develop our research in clusters of expertise, while anticipating some
    realignment of existing structures in response to a changing staff profile (succession planning).
3) Maintain a vibrant and diverse PGR community, aligned to cluster expertise.
4) Build on our successful strategy for external grant capture, especially:
    a) pairing outstanding ECRs with senior researchers on grant applications;
    b) developing large-scale bids with national/international partners in academia and industry;
    c) diversifying our portfolio of external funding, including recognition of non-HESA sources.
5) Develop new interdisciplinary research across BCU, based on the models of Jazz
    Research, PRH/CIPA and BMERG. Building on preliminary work led by Profs. Dingle and
    Gebhardt (UoA34), we will establish a BCU Music Research Network to connect the work of
    more than 60 researchers across the different schools and faculties of the university,
    expanding the thematic and methodological scope of research far beyond the possibilities of a
    single department.
6) Establish RBC/BCU as a national leader in practice research, through:
    a) bespoke training enabling practitioner colleagues to realise their latent research potential;
    b) increasing our presence on the Research Catalogue (see 1.7);
    c) sharing best practice via the Conservatoires-UK Research Forum, UK Practice Research
        Advisory Group, and European artistic research networks.
7) Align research and knowledge exchange strategies to maximise impact, including:
    a) review of our successful models of public and community engagement (e.g., externally-
        funded projects for-Wards and Orange Polar Bear) to embed impact strategically into all
        research clusters, in line with BCU’s aspiration to be the University for Birmingham;
    b) greater engagement with BCU’s STEAMHouse initiative (facilitating interdisciplinary
        research in collaboration with industry partners);
    c) further integration of research with RBC’s Learning and Participation outreach team
        (typically 40 events engaging with c.5000 participants annually);
    d) making full use of our sector-leading digital infrastructure (see 3.3) for live streaming and
        real-time interaction at performances, seminars and conferences, to extend the reach of our
        public engagement activities.
8) Build on existing good practice in research-informed teaching, as commended by external
    examiners: alignment of REF/TEF/KEF strategies.


1.6 Interdisciplinary Research
Interdisciplinarity is manifest in the intersection of theory and practice in our research clusters, and
especially in the constitution of Jazz Research, PRH/CIPA, and BMERG, which involve active
participation of researchers from other UoAs across the university, including shared PhD
supervision. Integra’s longstanding collaboration with CEBE’s (Faculty of Computing, Engineering
and the Built Environment) Digital Media Technology Lab (DMT-Lab), includes a shared UG
programme (BSc Music Technology), alongside joint research projects (staff and PGR).

Our commitment to interdisciplinarity is signalled by the strategic appointment of interdisciplinary
Research Professors at faculty level:
   • Dundjerovic: Professor of Performing Arts (appointed 2015), research lead for BSA with
      interdisciplinary brief in Practice Research.

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Whyton: Professor of Jazz Studies (appointed 2015), working across BCMCR/UoA34 and
       RBC/UoA33.
   •   Dudrah: Professor of Cultural Studies and Creative Industries (appointed 2016), based in
       BCMCR/UoA34 with cross-faculty interdisciplinary brief.

CIPA, led by Dundjerovic, aims to catalyse interdisciplinary research across the university and
with a range of national/international partners. Examples include:
    • Birmingham City Engineering Festival 'Dream Big’ (2017), site-specific performance at
        Birmingham’s Bullring Shopping Centre, celebrating achievements of women in
        engineering; collaboration between RBC, BCU Architecture and Engineering. Funded by
        Royal Society of Engineering public engagement grant (£15k).
    • Orange Polar Bear (co-produced: BCU, Birmingham Repertory Theatre, National Theatre
        Company of Korea; directed by Wynne-Willson), part of the AHRC Creative
        Multilingualism project (2017–21), £4m programme investigating linguistic diversity and
        creativity (6-university consortium, led by Oxford University; Creative Economy strand led
        by Dudrah at BCU).
    • 14th Architecture Humanities Research Association (AHRA) Conference (2017):
        ‘Architecture, Festival and the City’. Hosted at BCU with participation of CIPA.
    • EURAU (European Research in Architecture and Urbanism) symposium, ‘Place, Practice
        and Performativity’ (Jan 2020), co-hosted CIPA and BCU Architecture.
    • ‘Democracy through Drama: Conceptual and Pedagogical Framework’, Erasmus+ (2017-
        19). Research into new pedagogical models involved 6 EU organizations (academic and
        non-academic sector), led by PI Kanira (BCU, Education) with contribution from RBC
        Applied Theatre (Wynne-Willson and ER Talbot).

BCU’s STEAMHouse initiative includes funding for interdisciplinary projects (e.g., Savan/Gibson,
new materials/technologies for musical instrument design, £5k, 2018-19), and links research
expertise with creative industries more broadly, including 3 Collaborative Doctoral Awards
supporting our strategic partnership with Birmingham choir Ex Cathedra (see 4.2).


1.7 Open-Access Research
We are progressing towards an open research environment in the following ways:
    • All outputs are recorded in BCU’s Open-Access Repository.
    • Use of the Research Catalogue (international database for artistic research) for open-
      access publication of practice research (20 RC expositions included in REF2).
    • Birmingham Record Company distribution (by NMC) includes free streaming of all titles via
      YouTube.
    • Integra Live software (for live-electronics performance) is freely available via SourceForge.
    • Principal outputs from the AHRC-funded Tinctoris project are freely available at
      www.earlymusictheory.org (translations, articles, critical editions); software outputs
      (computational musicology) available via GitHub.

Consequently, a third of our REF2 return is open access, above and beyond REF policy
requirements.


1.8 Research Integrity and Ethics
RBC fosters a culture of research integrity (a BCU Core Value), and ensures that research is
conducted according to appropriate ethical, legal and professional frameworks, obligations and
standards. Our ethical review processes are based upon the British Sociological Association’s
guidelines. All staff and PG research projects are submitted to a multi-stage approval process via
RBC and faculty-level Ethics Committees. RBC also participates in the national Conservatoires-UK
Ethics Committee. BCU’s Compliance Team oversees periodic review for externally-funded
projects and the provision of training workshops for principal investigators.

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
Overview
RBC is an inclusive research community, embodying BCU’s People-focused Core Value. Our
return includes 35 staff with SRR, compared to 26 in REF2014. Additionally, 9 ERs, 18 VLs and 4
VRFs are supported by and contribute to our research environment, bringing the headcount of
research-engaged staff to 66 – a significant expansion since 2014. In accordance with BCU’s code
of practice, VL colleagues do not have SRR for REF2021; nevertheless, they are included in our
mentoring scheme and have access to researcher development activities.

Staff development strategy
ADM’s ‘Researcher responsibilities and support’ policy document (approved by FRC in 2016) sets
out support for, and expectations of, staff at each career stage, from ERs (pre-PhD) to Research
Professors.

Primary aims of this policy are to:
   • maintain and expand a vibrant and supportive research community;
   • make transparent allocation of workload and responsibilities;
   • support academic staff at each stage of a research career, including clear progression
       pathways;
   • provide the mechanism and support for high-performing creative practitioners, often initially
       without PhDs, to develop as artistic researchers.

Staff development is coordinated via ADM’s Researcher Education Development (RED) team,
led by Prof. Mercer (UoA34). There are six support strands:

   1. Personal Research Development Planning and Individual Performance Review.
   2. Workload Allocation Model (WAM). Staff development time: 0.1FTE, rising to 0.2FTE for
      staff undertaking PhDs; or Specific Research Responsibility (SRR) allowance at 0.25FTE,
      0.3FTE or 0.5FTE.
   3. Faculty Research Investment Scheme (FRIS) and UoA Conferences, Mobility and
      Networking funding.
   4. RED workshop programme
   5. Researcher Mentoring scheme
   6. Peer review – drawing on cross-faculty expertise of AHRC Peer Review College members
      (Savan), AHRC Strategic Reviewers (Dudrah, Wall), and HERA Knowledge Exchange and
      Impact Fellow (Whyton).

Emerging Researchers (ERs) are supported through three stages:
  • ER1: ERLab – initial scoping and development workshops.
  • ER2: ADM Academic Doctoral Studentships – 5-year support package of fee-waiver and
      0.2FTE WAM remission (with opportunity for 1 semester 0.8FTE sabbatical for thesis
      completion). 8 RBC colleagues have registered for this scheme since 2014 (including 1
      completion and 1 sabbatical award to date).
  • ER3: Post-Doctoral Development Programme.
Early-Career Researchers (ECRs) are supported through a development programme led by
senior researchers, with workshops on publication strategies, planning for impact, grant writing,
etc. Mid-career Researchers, Readers and Research Professors are supported through
bespoke workshops (including for promotion application). The programme is underpinned by a
mutually supportive, cluster-based mentoring scheme, in which every member of staff from ECR
onwards participates as both mentor and mentee.




                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Staffing and recruitment
There has been some natural staff turnover during the period: Woodley and Johnson have retired,
Halfyard and Koller have moved to other institutions, while Bullock has taken a role in industry.

We have made several strategic appointments, both to fill the gaps in research and teaching
expertise left by departing colleagues, and to strengthen our research clusters, notably Jazz and
Performing Arts. These include (all open-ended, FTE contracts):

   •   Interdisciplinary Professors, Whyton (Jazz, UoA34) and Dundjerovic (Performing Arts):
       see 1.6.
   •   Hudson (Senior Lecturer, Head of Dance/Movement, 2015), Wynne-Willson (Senior
       Lecturer, Applied Theatre, 2015), Somers (Lecturer, Acting, 2016), expanding provision
       across Performing Arts in teaching and practice research.
   •   Savan, Senior Lecturer (now Professor) in Performance-led Research, Music (2016),
       building on work developed by Johnson, and with expertise in HIP complementing the work
       of F17/18CM.
   •   Dooley, Lecturer in Music Technology (2017), replacing Bullock. Dooley has since moved
       to a senior position elsewhere; his successor is yet to be appointed.
   •   Bain and O’Gallagher, Senior Lecturers in Jazz (2017), replacing Koller and, with Whyton,
       expanding RBC’s contribution to the Jazz Research cluster.
   •   Whittaker, Lecturer in Music Pedagogy (2019); an RBC doctoral graduate and former
       Research Fellow in BCU’s School of Education, he creates a strategic bridge with BMERG.
   •   Hamilton, VL, Composition (2015), converting to FTE Lecturer (2020), expanding research
       and supervisory capacity in the Composition cluster.

Post-doctoral Fellowships
Since 2018 we have appointed 7 postdoctoral fellows (fixed-term contracts): Fletcher, Gardner,
Hunt, Ingamells, Mwamba, Norman, Roberts (all RBC PhD graduates). This faculty scheme to
support outstanding ECRs has led to production of outputs as independent researchers and co-
authored external funding applications with senior colleagues. Successful grants developed via this
strategy are discussed in 3.1.


Supporting and rewarding research and impact
Implementation of a generous and transparent WAM system has transformed the provision and
protection of staff research time since 2014. Staff are also able to apply to FRIS for further
remission to complete specific projects. Bennett, Churnside, Derry, Dingle, Perkins and
Thompson are all beneficiaries of such remission. Members of the research directorate are
normally afforded a period of sabbatical leave to develop their personal research projects when
stepping down from a leadership role (e.g. Woodley, 2015; Dingle, 2016).

Part-time and flexible working is supported, enabling many of our researchers to pursue portfolio
careers in creative industries: 14 of our 35 SRR staff are employed on fractional contracts, mostly
to enable professional activity in composition and/or performance; similarly, our 18 research-
active VLs are all industry professionals. Knowledge exchange is thus embedded in our
employment structures and working practices at RBC, facilitating relationships with industry
partners leading to impact and benefits for our research environment as described in Section
4. Specific support for enabling research impact is described in 1.4, above.

Our annual promotions cycle recognises and rewards research achievements, resulting in: 1
promotion from VL to permanent FTE Lecturer; 3 promotions to Senior Lecturer; 2 to
Reader/Associate Professor; and 5 to Professor, such that all research clusters now have
professorial leadership and/or mentorship. Our research directorate is fully integrated in RBC’s
Senior Management Committee, chaired by Vice-Principal Thompson, whose own promotion into
that role in 2018 was in part based on her significant research achievements.



                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.2 Postgraduate Research
RBC has secured 49 PhD completions in this period, compared with 11 in REF2014. We now
enjoy one of the UK’s largest PhD communities in Music and Performing Arts: robust recruitment
(237 EOIs; 103 applications; 66 offers; 48 acceptances) means we currently have 48 students
registered for a doctoral degree (FT:23; PT:25; FTE:35.5), including 27 funded studentships.

Recruitment and studentships
Our involvement in the AHRC Midlands3Cities consortium (2013-19), and expanded
Midlands4Cities (2019-), has been a major boost to PhD recruitment at RBC, resulting in 16 AHRC
studentship awards. In addition, BCU has invested in doctoral studentships aligned to its STEAM
initiative, through which our students secured 11 awards (fully-funded to equivalent UKRI level).

In 2016 we introduced a new MA in Musicology as both a standalone award and, strategically, as
explicit preparation for doctoral study. External examiners were ‘impressed by the sheer variety
of topics the student researchers covered… testimony to the rich and vibrant research culture at
RBC’ (2018 report). This sits alongside our established MMus which includes an integrated
research project. Of PhD students registering since 2014, 18 are graduates of our own Masters
programmes, including 2 so far from the new MA (both AHRC-funded); a further 5 have progressed
from the MA to PhDs elsewhere.

Monitoring and support
Monitoring of PGR progress is overseen by the Faculty Research Degrees and Environment
Committee. Full-time students have an Initial Review at 6 months (12 months PT), Progression
Assessment Panel (public presentation of work-in-progress and viva voce with external examiner)
after 1 year (or PT equivalent), and subsequent Annual Reviews until Final Review (6 months
before submission). Any student considered ‘at risk’ (of untimely completion) is given SMART
objectives with additional monitoring and support as necessary. This rigorous process has
contributed directly to the 444% improvement in our completion figures.

Skills and career development
PGR students complete the PGCert in Research Practice within the first 6 months of FT study
(12 months PT). This interdisciplinary programme, taught by research-active staff across ADM,
draws on diverse practice research as well as more traditional modes of inquiry. After completion
of the PGCert our PGRs benefit from ADM’s innovative PGR Studio professional development
programme, featured at Vitae Conference and UK Council for Graduate Education (2018) as
exemplar of best practice in doctoral pedagogy. Within RBC we offer bespoke training responding
to students’ individual needs (e.g. source studies and critical editing seminars), regular composition
and musicology seminars, and study days where students present work to their peers. PGRs are
fully integrated as junior members of our research clusters, participating in meetings,
seminars (including opportunities to present in our Public Research Seminar series) and
conferences.

We have supported 9 of our highest-performing PGRs through an innovative studentship
extension scheme, a fully-funded 6-month programme, including career development activities,
preparation of outputs for publication, and mentorship from senior academics to prepare an
application for our post-doctoral fellowship scheme (2.1, above).

The careers of our doctoral graduates testify to the success of RBC/ADM professional
development activities. Two-thirds of our doctoral graduates since 2013 are currently employed in
education and research, with the remaining third employed primarily in the creative industries. 58%
are employed in HEIs, including postdoctoral positions and lectureships in the UK and overseas
(e.g. Amsterdam Conservatorium; University of Applied Sciences, Darmstadt). 29% have lecturing
and/or research positions at BCU, which currently employs 12 of our PhDs graduating since 2013
(FTE or VL).




                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.3 Equality and diversity
REF5a details BCU’s EDI policies and university/faculty-level initiatives. The following summary
focuses on EDI practices as enacted at unit level.

In line with BCU’s code of practice, all RBC academic staff may apply for SRR status, including
WAM remission and resources to pursue a research career. Applicants submit a five-year research
plan (which may include support to undertake a PhD), assessed by colleagues who have
undertaken Advance-HE EDI training.

All researchers (PGR, VL, ER and ECRs, including those on fixed-term contracts), can receive
Conference and Mobilities funding; ECRs (including fixed-term) can apply for FRIS funds.

Flexible and part-time working is supported for parental/caring responsibilities. Key faculty- and
unit-level research meetings are held on Wednesday afternoons when all part-time staff are
available, creating equality of opportunity for progression into leadership roles (evidenced by
two 0.8FTE members of our research directorate). Research seminars are held within office hours
for the benefit of colleagues with childcare responsibilities.

RBC’s internal REF peer-review process is fully inclusive. Every researcher with outputs under
review also reviews the work of colleagues. Panels include a balance of senior researchers
(professors and readers) and ECRs, aiming for gender balance and inclusion of BAME researchers
wherever possible. We conceive of peer-review as a supportive development activity, central to
building a research community at RBC.

Our staff return in UoA33 includes 7 female (1 BAME) and 28 male (1 BAME) colleagues,
a 20/80 gender split broadly reflecting the balance of FTE academic staff in RBC as a
whole (25/75). Our outputs return includes a female/male percentage split of 23/77; while ICS-B
foregrounds the impact of for-Wards (see 3.1): curation and artistic direction by Gardner, a female
post-doctoral researcher of Afro-Caribbean heritage.

Although our demographic remains predominantly male, we have taken positive steps to address
this gender imbalance within our research leadership team (CRAG) by adding our Vice-Principal
and Head of Dance/Movement, such that it currently comprises 4F/7M (36/64). Our Visiting
Fellows are 2F/2M (50/50). Mawer is a member of ‘The 32 Profs’ support group for BCU’s female
professoriate, and RBC academics are involved as mentors in ADM’s Women’s Researcher
Network.

In our PGR community the gender split is 30/70 female/male. 15% identify as BAME and 10%
have declared a disability.

We do not have sufficient data to report reliably on staff with disabilities, although we have
assigned RA support to dyslexic colleagues where required. Similarly, we cannot report reliably on
sexuality, although REF2 includes artistic research that engages thematically with queerness.

Signalling RBC’s commitment to EDI, our principal Julian Lloyd Webber took a national lead as
chair of Conservatoires-UK’s EDI sub-committee (2018-19).




                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Strategies for research income generation
In this cycle we have benefitted from BCU’s reorganised Research & Innovation Gateway, with
dedicated pre- and post-award support officers at faculty level. Regular bulletins inform staff of the
latest funding opportunities; RED workshops include grant development, with funder-specific
sessions for AHRC, BA/Leverhulme, etc.; mentoring and regular review helps colleagues to
integrate external bid development into their research plans. RBC has two Associate Directors with
a track record in successful grant capture overseeing development of applications from initial EOIs,
through peer-review to final submission.

This strategy has led to 9 successful awards, generating an income to BCU of £1.6m from
projects with a total value of £2.1m – a substantial increase on the £1.1m income reported in
REF2014. Most significant among these are:

    • Early Music Theory:
Interpreting the Mensural Notation of Music, AHRC: £683k (fEC £854k), 2017-22. Successor to
‘The Complete Theoretical Works of Johannes Tinctoris’ (AHRC: £400k; 2011-2014; funding
extended by BCU to 2016); this second phase facilitating continued employment and career
progression of Dean as PI (previously CI), and employment of research fellows Goursaud
(previously a doctoral student attached to phase 1), Lewis (2017-19) and Plaksin (2020-). Outputs:
all Open Access, described in 1.7. Impact strategy: Production and publication of OA software: (1)
an interpretation tool for mensural notation for use by music editors and other researchers; (2) a
learning tool to help students and performers master mensural notation.

    • French Music Research Hub:
Accenting the Classics: Durand’s Édition classique (c.1915–25) as a French Prism on the
Musical Past, AHRC: £369k (fEC £462k), 2016-19. PI Mawer, with CI Sadler (BCU), CI Kelly
(RNCM); funded appointment of RA Moore. ATC grew out of FMRH’s research funding strategy:
building on launch symposium (2014); exploiting the diversity of expertise among the hub’s members;
the rich Conservatoire context to interface with performance; and strategic collaboration with strong
research partners (RNCM). Outputs (to date): Mawer (ed.), Historical Interplay in French Music
(Routledge, 2018); 14 international conference papers (2017-19); international conference (2018);
research website, including recital recordings (2017, 2018, 2019). Impact strategy: to demonstrate
the pedagogical dimension of the Edition classique through educational engagement (ATC
conference recital with RBC pianists; Junior Conservatoire Workshop); to bring the ATC project and
Durand edition to the general public, including a public ‘Festival Parisien’ (2017), showcasing RBC’s
new performance spaces.

    • Conservatoire Composition Cluster
for-Wards, Arts Council England: £89k (fEC £161k, match-funding: charitable foundations and
partner organisations), 2016-18; PI Cutler, CI Gardner. Extending our commitment to widening
public access and participation in new music in Birmingham (building on BCU’s University for
Birmingham agenda), for-Wards was co-curated with 9 leading music organisations and a
compositional team of 837 Birmingham residents, including 10 professional composers and 40
diverse community groups. for-Wards attracted significant media coverage and was shared
through 10 live events and a limited-edition vinyl release. Impact is detailed in ICS-B.

Documenting Music with Non-Sonic Elements, AHRC Networking: £36k (fEC £43k), 2019-20;
PI Wolters, RAs Norman, Ingamells. International partners Østfold University College, Norwegian
Theatre Academy and Mousonturm Theatre (Frankfurt). The network developed a taxonomy and
documentary methodology for experimental music performance with non-sonic elements. This was
a successful outcome of our post-doctoral scheme (see 2.1), pairing Norman and Ingamells
with senior researcher Wolters to develop the grant application.




                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    • Integra Lab:
Transforming Transformation: 3D Models for Interactive Sound Design, AHRC: £40k (fEC
£50k), 2015-16. PI Bullock; CI Poyade (Glasgow School of Art); commercial partner Two Big Ears
(audio/games software company). The team designed and developed a novel interactive system
enabling sound to be manipulated as though it were an invisible 3D object, catalysing a shift from
technology-centric to human-centric workflows.

Augmented Vocality: Recomposing the Sounds of Early Irish and Old Norse, AHRC: £384k
(fEC £480k), 2020-2022 (awarded June, commenced November, 2020). PI Coccioli; CIs Hunt,
Hall, Ní Mhaonaigh (Cambridge University); commercial partners Birmingham Contemporary
Music Group, Hard Rain Ensemble (Belfast), BIT20 Ensemble (Norway). Outputs will include new
compositions, international performances, journal articles, conference presentations, and freely
accessible online language/music resources. Post-doctoral researcher Hunt was principal author of
the grant proposal, another successful outcome of our post-doctoral strategy.

    • Integra Lab with CIPA/PRH:
Innovation in live performance: Developing interactive technologies for opera and theatre
productions, AHRC UK-China Creative Industries Partnership: £25k (£57k fEC, match-funding:
Shanghai Conservatory), 2019. PI Coccioli, CIs Dooley (Integra), Dundjerovic (CIPA/PRH),
Williams (DMT-Lab); international partners: Shanghai Conservatory of Music, Shanghai Theatre
Academy. Developing existing links between RBC/BCU and HEIs in Shanghai, the project built a
consortium with industry partners, Birmingham Opera Company, HolosphereVR, and Shanghai
Opera House, aiming to develop and co-produce innovative performances (theatre, dance, opera,
Chinese opera, music theatre, immersive performances) using mixed-reality and interactive
performance technologies. This was preliminary to a larger AHRC bid (value £494k, plus £1.37m
additional commitment from partners) which was unfortunately not funded. However, creative
outcomes from the pilot project were shared at Longyou International Music Festival, Quzhou,
China (contributions from RBC researchers Hunt, Dooley and Hall, 2019), with future
collaborations planned.


3.2 Investment for research and impact.
Beyond infrastructure development underpinning 3.1, we have made the following investments
using QR money earned from REF2014:
    • Annual conference and mobilities budget (£30-40k p.a.) administered at UoA level, open to
       all research-active staff and PGRs.
    • Faculty Research Investment Scheme (FRIS) supports larger-scale activities (e.g.
       recordings, conference hosting, external bid development) via competitive application (an
       average of £27,600 p.a. secured for UoA33 projects).
    • Awards from the above schemes have contributed to the production of the majority of
       audio-visual outputs submitted in REF2, often providing essential leverage as match-
       funding for non-HESA awards (see 3.4).
    • Strategic appointment of Professors Whyton and Dundjerovic – key to development of Jazz
       Research and PRH/CIPA clusters.
    • Part-funding our post-doctoral fellowship programme (7 fellowships).

Additionally, BCU offers Strategic Research Investment funding by competitive application, from
which Integra was awarded £42k (plus £20k FRIS, 2018) to develop its open-source software,
supporting its ongoing global impact (see 4.3).


3.3 Operational and scholarly infrastructure
RBC moved into its new £57m purpose-built home in September 2017. Coccioli (Associate
Principal and Professor of Music Technology) oversaw the vision, planning and design of the new
building with architects Feilden Clegg Bradley, to bring the quality of the physical infrastructure in
line with the quality of our research, teaching and broader cultural mission in the region. The
building won a RIBA National Award (2018), referencing the “close collaboration of architect and

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
client team, producing a building that not only enhances the school’s educational reputation but is
surely destined to become one of Birmingham’s most … cherished public venues.”

The building includes:

     •   5 public concert venues: Eastside Jazz Club, Birmingham’s only dedicated jazz club;
         Recital Hall (150-seat) for solo and chamber music; purpose-built Organ Studio with
         Flentrop organ (completed 2021) funded by Wolfson Foundation gift, £500k; The Lab,
         black-box for experimental and immersive music and theatre performances; and
         Bradshaw Hall, an outstanding 500-seat concert hall. All venues are equipped with state-
         of-the-art live sound facilities (SSL consoles) and multi-channel surround diffusion
         systems (Meyer Sound, d&b audiotechnik).
     •   7 large workshops equipped with video projection and multi-channel sound diffusion.
     •   7 state-of-the-art recording studios, featuring industry-leading SSL consoles and a
         range of high-end loudspeaker systems (ATC, Bowers & Wilkins, Genelec)
     •   100 practice and rehearsal rooms
     •   A distance-learning hub featuring a range of video-conferencing tools for low-latency
         real-time collaboration across the world.
     •   A fibre-optic digital infrastructure unrivalled in the UK, including a dedicated Dante AV
         digital network, that connects all performance spaces for recording, live-streaming and
         broadcasting purposes.

Our well-established Conservatoire library comprises c.120,000 items of printed music, 300 pre-
1850 printed or MS sources, 12,000 recordings and 80 music journal subscriptions, plus numerous
subscriptions to online resources. Newly housed in BCU’s Curzon Library with 24/7 access, it
benefits from proximity to Performing Arts (previously BSA) resources and extensive collections
built up by the Jazz and Popular Music Research Clusters in BCMCR. The library also houses the
Royal College of Organists’ specialist research collection. RBC holdings are overseen by two
specialist librarians.

Our Historical Instrument Collection (140+ items) is available for staff and student research
projects, and to external scholars by appointment (see 4.3). Significant acquisitions include a mid-
19th century Wieck piano with benefits for historical performance research (Thwaites); restoration
funded by QR, £2k, 2016.


3.4 Individual awards and commissions (non-HESA)
Researchers across composition and performing arts have received 113 individual awards and
commissions (non-HESA), supporting the production and dissemination of 95 outputs in artistic
research since 2014, with a total value of £812,617. Many of these are highly prestigious awards,
including: 9 ACE (combined value £157,723), 12 Arts Council Ireland (£70,296), 3 Arts Council
Northern Ireland (£20,000); and commissions: 2 BBC (£19,000), 3 BCMG (£23,750), 4 PRS
(£19,494), and 4 RTE (£21,395).




                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
BCU’s Core Value of Partnership working directly informs our strategic approach to research and
impact at RBC. Most projects described in 3.1 involve collaboration with external academic and
creative-industry partners, often with an international focus, leading to synergies of research and
practice characteristic of the Conservatoire environment.

Furthering our commitment to national/international partnerships and networks, RBC hosted the
following conferences:

   •   2014   Historical Interplay in French Music and Culture (FMRH, resulting in edited book of
              same title, Routledge, 2018).
   •   2014   Jean-Philippe Rameau: International Anniversary Conference (FMRH, F17/18CM,
              jointly hosted with St Hilda’s College, Oxford).
   •   2014   Tinctoris Conference (EMT, held at IMR, London).
   •   2015   Music in Transition: Changing Styles and Approaches in the Mid-Baroque
              (F17/18CM, leading to edited book, expected 2021).
   •   2016   Music-Interaction Design (Integra).
   •   2016   Rhythm Changes International Jazz Conference (Jazz Research, with BCMCR)
   •   2017   Heaven is Shy of Earth: Julian Anderson at 50 (jointly hosted with GSMD; part-
              funded Music & Letters).
   •   2018   Brahms: Exploratory HIP Workshop for Piano and Strings (PRH, 4-day event,
              international participation).
   •   2018   Editing, Performing and Re-Composing the Musical Past (FMRH, AHRC project)
   •   2018   International Couperin Conference (F17/18CM and FMRH, resulting in themed
              issue of Early Music, August 2020, guest-edited Sadler).
   •   2018   Slowing and Stilling: Foregrounding Process in Performance Practices (PRH, in
              association with International Dance Festival Birmingham).
   •   2019   Technology in Musical Performance (TiMP): inaugural symposium of new RMA
              study group, led by Hunt (Integra).
   •   2020   NIME (New Interfaces for Musical Expression) International Conference (theme:
              accessibility). Held online under Covid-lockdown (Integra).

F17/18CM also successfully bid to host the 19th International Biennial Conference on Baroque
Music in 2020 (Covid19-postponement: 2021). Similarly, we were to host the biennial Music since
1900 Conference in 2021 (Covid19-postponement: 2022).

Research exchange opportunities are supported via BCU’s international office, examples include:

Savan, visiting professor, Schola Cantorum Basiliensis (2018), funded by the Swiss European
Mobility programme: 3 visits, culminating in an international conference (‘The Cornetto in Three
Dimensions’, 2019). Residency included research collaboration with DMT-Lab (STEAM-funded),
testing 3D-printed replicas of historical mouthpieces.

Dundjerovic, visiting professor, University of São Paulo, Brazil (2007-present); resulting in two
published books exploring Brazilian collaborative theatre, and practice-research Macbeth projeto,
discussed below (4.2).

Erasmus+ exchange, Tambov State University, Russia (BCU-lead, €35k, 2016-18). Practice-
research collaboration exploring contemporary acting pedagogy, including a staged performance
and research symposium (direction and keynote by Dundjerovic).




                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.2 Key Research Users, Beneficiaries, Audiences
Birmingham Contemporary Music Group (BCMG) is an important long-term research partner,
with which we launched the NEXT professional training scheme in contemporary music
performance in 2018 (Coccioli co-director; funding from Art Mentor Foundation Lucerne), including
an M4C-funded doctoral student. BCMG delivers an annual workshop featuring the work of our
PhD composers, and has also commissioned significant works from our composition staff: Wolters
(Requiem to Let, 2015), Skempton (Field Notes, 2014; Rime of the Ancient Mariner, 2015).

RBC’s strategic relationship with the Birmingham choir Ex Cathedra (ExC) is detailed in ICS-C. Of
relevance to RBC’s broader research environment are 3 Collaborative Doctoral Awards (BCU-
STEAMhouse, 2017-) supervised by F17/18CM staff (Churnside, Sadler, Savan, Skidmore,
Thompson), creating critical editions of previously unknown repertoire for performance by ExC.
Editorial work-in-progress is tested by our resident ‘research consort’ of ExC scholars (4 RBC
student singers and 4 graduates per year). The success of this scheme resulted in a further CDA,
AHRC/M4C-funded, commencing 2021.

In Performing Arts, Dundjerovic led Macbeth Projeto, an interdisciplinary experimental
performance developed through six performance cycles (2017-20). Collaborators and co-producers
included local, regional and international partners: Centrala, Digbrew, IFTR, VUK Theatre, Prague
Quadrennial, Shanghai Theatre Academy and Teatro Os Satyros, Brazil. Cycle #6 was completed
in 2020 under Covid-19 conditions as a live digital (Zoom) performance, winning the Young-Howze
Award for ‘Collaboration of the Year’ (2021). Macbeth Projeto has returned multiple benefits to our
research environment, involving 3 PGRs, and directly informing UG/PG Acting pedagogy at RBC,
in ongoing collaboration with Brazilian research partners.

Wynne-Willson directed Orange Polar Bear (2014-18), a bilingual applied-theatre production
focusing on the experience of teenagers in Seoul and Birmingham, in collaboration with National
Theatre Company of Korea, Hanyong Theatre Company and Birmingham Repertory Theatre. OPB
received external funding of £372k from ACE and international partners (included in totals under
3.4), and reached a live audience of 4,877 in Seoul and Birmingham (86% attendance across 11
performances, Birmingham Rep; 100% attendance across 11 performances, Seoul National
Theatre), including significant new audiences in the UK: 24% identifying as BAME; 31% first-time
attendees at the Rep. Wynne-Willson presented research insights from OPB at international
symposia (UK/Korea), and conference and outreach activities associated with the AHRC Creative
Multilingualism project (see 1.6).

Whittaker’s research with BMERG and local Music Education Hubs feeds into the ACE/DfE annual
survey (https://www.artscouncil.org.uk/children-and-young-people/music-education-hubs-survey)
which informs government policymaking. Whittaker represents RBC on the Birmingham Music
Education Partnership committee, overseeing strategic planning of music education activity in the
city. These relationships provide key insights into primary and secondary music education
provision that inform RBC’s Learning and Participation outreach activities.

Dingle has given numerous public lectures related to his Messiaen research, including The
Prince's Teaching Institute (2015); Aldeburgh Festival (2016) with ornithologist Nigel Collar at
RSPB Minmere, and Jerwood Kiln Studio, Snape; London’s Barbican Centre (BBCSO, Éclairs sur
l’Au-delà, 2014) and King's Place (Quartet for the End of Time, London Sinfonietta, 2014); and led
a study event for Stavanger Konserthus, Norway (2018).

Similarly, colleagues have shared their research insights with concert audiences through pre-
concert talks (Wigmore Hall, London Festival of Baroque Music, Cambridge Early Music Summer
School), programme essays (BBC Proms, BBC Symphony Orchestra, Bonn Opera, English
National Opera, London Sinfonietta, The Philharmonia) and non-academic blogs (e.g. Derry: guest
blog for Town Hall Symphony Hall, average 187,000 visitors per month; also guest contributor to
subreddit for ‘Ask Historians’, million+ readership).



                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our researchers contribute frequently to broadcasts on BBC Radio 3, including: ‘Afternoon on 3’,
‘Building a Library’, ‘Composer of the Week’, ‘In Tune’, ‘The Early Music Show’, ‘Hear and Now’, ‘In
Concert’, ‘Jazz Now’, and ‘Proms Extra’. Mwamba has presented the weekly R3 jazz and
improvisation show ‘Freeness’ since 2019.

RBC’s Public Research Seminar Series typically involves 12 presentations per year, featuring a
vibrant mix of internal staff, PGRs and external speakers, reflecting the interests of our research
clusters. Recognising the importance of role models, we aspire to a 50:50 gender balance among
presenters (72 speakers across 82 events; 30F/42M overall; in the last 2 years 7F/9M, then 8/8),
including 18 international speakers from 11 countries. Since Covid-19 the seminars have been
delivered online, leading to a wider engagement with a more geographically dispersed audience
internationally. In October 2018 we presented our first digital Musicology Showcase: 15 diverse
presentations, live-streamed to a worldwide audience (YouTube/Facebook, 1800 views).


4.3 Wider Contributions to the Economy and Society, including Public Engagement
RBC researchers have engaged with major international festivals during the period. Dingle’s
edition/orchestration of Messiaen’s Un oiseau des arbres de Vie, premiered at the BBC Proms
(2015), and Sadler’s significant research contribution to Utrecht Early Music Festival (2018), are
detailed in ICS-A.

Cutler was composer-in-residence at the Walled City Music Festival, Derry (2014), leading a
workshop for young composers with the Coull String Quartet. Norman held two residencies at the
Künstlerhaus Mousonturm, Frankfurt, including an 8-day performance/installation at the festival
‘Unfuck my Future: how to live together in Europe’ (2019), engaging with diverse audiences as
active participants in the performance. Goursaud is a committee member of the London Festival of
Contemporary Church Music, advising on commissioning new music since 2017. Fletcher led
workshops at Birmingham’s ‘Surge in Spring’ (2019) and ‘Ideas of Noise’ (2020) festivals, enabling
local residents to engage with RBC’s diverse practice research. Wolters and Norman performed
in the opening concert of Birmingham Fluid Festival (2017), celebrating new music by Queer
musicians.

As a thriving public arts venue (500+ public events annually), RBC also hosts important festivals of
its own, including Frontiers (annual new music festival) and Birmingham International Recorder
and Early Music Festival (BIREMF, biennial), through which world-class, research-led
performances are held in-house, many of which are filmed and streamed worldwide. These
festivals regularly premiere staff and PGR compositions and form a test-bed for research in
performance practice.

Numerous researchers occupy artistic director roles with prominent performing ensembles as
collaborators, beneficiaries and conduits of their practice research, including (among others):
Decibel Ensemble (Bennett), Ex Cathedra (Skidmore), Gonzaga Band (Savan), His Majestys
Sagbutts & Cornetts (Roberts, Savan), Kolektiv Theatre (Dundjerovic), Musical and Amicable
Society (Perkins), Primrose Quartet (Thwaites). Hudson is currently Chair of Dance Hub
Birmingham.

Integra’s free, open-source software outputs since 2014 include the latest version of Integra Live
(v1.7.2) and Myo Mapper (JUCE Award Winner 2017), enabling performance with live electronics
via intuitive interfaces. The focus of an ICS in REF2014, Integra Live is now embedded in music
technology courses at more than 20 HEIs internationally, e.g., Académie Supérieure de Musique
de Strasbourg, Shanghai Conservatory, and Stellenbosch University. With over 33,000 downloads
to date (18,000 since 2014), Integra Live’s global reach includes a significant user base in Brazil
and China. Integra staff have delivered workshops for professional bodies and HEIs internationally
(e.g., Stellenbosch University, South Africa; Universidad de los Andes, Bogotá; Conservatorio G.
Verdi, Milan; Spectrum Festival, Malaysia; Zhejiang Conservatory, Hangzhou; Berklee College of
Music; Audio Developers Conference; Camac Harp Weekend, Cardiff; Silpakorn University,


                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Bangkok; Sichuan Conservatory, Chengdu); plus workshops for school pupils aged 15-18 at RBC
(2018, 2019).

RBC’s Historical Instrument Collection (HIC) collaborated with BCU’s School of Visual
Communications to produce an 8-week exhibition at New Street Station (2018). HIC’s external
users have included the British Harpsichord Society, and individual luthiers and performers
researching bows, harp-lutes and English guitars. The 2018 BIREMF included an exhibition of
selected instruments alongside interactive displays, and their demonstration in a lecture recital by
Andy Lamb (Bate Collection, Oxford). HIC instruments are featured in a commercial sample library
(Soniccouture: ICS REF2014), used across a wide spectrum of the music industry internationally,
generating annual royalties to RBC of c.5k.


4.4 Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognitions by the research base.
RBC is well represented at the Royal Musical Association: Mawer was elected to the RMA Council
(2018-20), serving on the External Affairs Committee, Events Committee, and leading the Music
Education Initiative (part of the RMA’s EDI strategy: current focus on research-enhanced teaching
and learning at sixth-form level). Dean has been RMA Executive Officer since 2001, while Hunt is
founder-member and chair of the RMA Technology in Music Performance Study Group (2019-).

Helping to shape the future of research in the Conservatoire sector, RBC is represented at the
Conservatoires-UK Research Forum (Savan, Dingle), and Association of European
Conservatoires (Coccioli).

Coccioli is a member of the steering group for New Interfaces of Musical Expression (NIME) and
Chair for the 2020 conference. He has provided peer reviews for AHRC, International Computer
Music Conference, Sound and Music Computing Conference, Austrian Science Fund, and
European Commission funding programmes.

Other external roles include:
   • Churnside, committee member, Handel Institute; Programme Committee Chair, Baroque
       Biennial Conference 2020/21.
   • Dingle, steering group member, Music Since 1900, and organiser of the next conference.
   • Fletcher, founder-member, International Artistic Jazz Research group (partners in Graz
       and Vienna); inaugural symposium, Vienna, October 2019 (contributions from Fletcher and
       Bain).
   • Hall, programme committee member, Innovation in Music and Convergence conferences
       (2019).
   • Savan, member of Sub-Panel 33: REF2021.
   • Whittaker, co-organiser, Medieval and Renaissance Music Conference (Edinburgh, 2020).

Journal editorship and peer review roles
RBC researchers are active as editorial board members and reviewers for leading journals and
other academic publications. Sadler is a member of the editorial board for Early Music and was
guest editor for special editions on Rameau (2016) and Couperin (2020). He was editorial board
member for the Journal of Seventeenth Century Music (2015-19), replaced by Thompson (2019-).
Roberts is general editor for Septenary Editions, while Savan sits on the editorial board.

Other editorial board memberships: Mawer, British Journal of Music Education; Dundjerovic,
Performance Research and Revista Sala Preta; Hudson, Journal of Dance, Movement and
Spirituality and Journal of Dance and Somatic Practices.

In addition, RBC academics have peer-reviewed submissions to the following journals since 2014:
Context, Danish Yearbook of Musicology, De musica disserenda, French Studies, Galpin
Society Journal, Journal of Musicological Research, Journal of Musicology, Journal of the
American Musicological Society, Journal of the Royal Musical Association, Malaysian Journal of
Music Education, Music Analysis, Music & Letters, Music Theory Online, Revue de musicologie,

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Riffs, RMA Research Chronicle, and Twentieth Century Music; and book manuscripts for
Ashgate, Boydell, Routledge, and California, Rochester, Oxford and Cambridge University
Press.

Prizes, awards, fellowships
The excellence of our Composition research was recognised at the British Composer / Novello
Awards with winners Cutler (Jazz category, 2016) and Hamilton (Choral category, 2018); and with
further nominations in 2020 for Cutler (Large Orchestral category) and PGR Khyam Allami (Sound
Art category). Cutler and Bennett won PRSF Composers Fund Awards (2016, 2017), and
Bennett won an Arts Council Northern Ireland Major Individual Award (2018). Hunt was
LPO/Leverhulme Young Composer (2013–14), including a new work for the LPO, premiered in
Queen Elizabeth Hall; Royal Philharmonic Society/Wigmore Hall Apprentice Composer (2018–19);
and Sound and Music 'New Voices' composer (2018-20). Skempton was awarded an honorary
doctorate, Bath Spa University (2018).

Hudson’s screendance work Vis-er-al was finalist at international film festivals in Islamabad
(2020), Turin (2018) and Stockholm (2017). Skidmore was awarded the OBE for ‘services to
choral music’ (2015); an honorary doctorate, University of Birmingham (2017); and a Gramophone
Award for A French Baroque Diva (2015). Whittaker was Albi Rosenthal Visiting Fellow at the
Bodleian Library, Oxford (2019), supporting his work in medieval pedagogy. Mawer is a Fellow of
the Royal Historical Society.

Keynotes, invited lectures, performances, etc.
Some illustrative examples are included here:
   • Mawer: keynote, Les Six at 100, Princeton University (2020); guest lecturer, Musik-
       Akademie Basel (2015).
   • Dingle: keynote, Théories et Conceptions de la critique musicale au xxe siècle, Université
       libre de Bruxelles (2015); invited speech, Environs Messiaen Conference, Cornell
       University (2015). Panel chair, AMS conference (Rochester, NY, 2017).
   • Sadler: many invited talks on French baroque music at leading French-speaking
       institutions, including Centre de musique baroque de Versailles (2014), Sorbonne
       Université (2014), Université catholique libre, Brussels (2016), Bibliothèque nationale, Paris
       (2017), Université de Genève (2019).
   • Churnside: invited paper, Fondazione Cini, Venice (2014).
   • Savan: HIP workshop, University of Oregon, Eugene, as invited artist (with HMSC), Oregon
       Bach Festival (2014).
   • Dundjerovic: keynote and workshop, Prague Quadrennial of Performance and Stage
       Design (2019).
   • Coccioli: many keynotes and masterclasses in 12 countries across 4 continents; sample
       listed under Integra (4.3, above).
   • Cutler: guest lecturer in composition in China: Beijing Modern Music Festival, Beijing
       Normal University, Shanghai Conservatory, Sichuan Conservatory, Wuhan Conservatory.
       Italy: Udine Conservatory. Ireland: St Patrick’s College, Dublin. South Korea: Inje
       University. Jury member for international awards, including BBC Inspire Young Composers
       Competition (2016), Trillende Lucht Award (Holland, 2016), and Gaudeamus
       International Composers Award (Holland, 2017).

External PGR (national / international)
RBC academics have worked as external supervisors and PGR examiners at other HEIs in the UK
and internationally, e.g., External supervision: Leiden, Liverpool Hope, Newcastle, Royal
Conservatory Brussels; External examining: Aix-en-Provence, Cambridge, Durham, Glasgow,
Open University, Oxford, Queensland Conservatorium, RCM, RCS, Royal Conservatory The
Hague, Royal Holloway, Schola Cantorum Basiliensis, St Andrew’s. These exchanges feed
reflexively into BCU’s innovative SEDA-accredited Community of Practice supervisor development
programme (7 RBC supervisors accredited to date).
                                                                                     [8790 words]

                                                                                            Page 18
