Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Bangor University (10007857)

 Unit of Assessment: UoA26 Modern Languages and Linguistics

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Strategic Direction:

 Building explicitly on the direction of travel established in submissions to REF2014, which drew
 together researchers from complementary disciplines, this submission encompasses a range of
 thematically-linked research from across the Arts and Humanities at Bangor undertaken by
 researchers in the Schools of History, Philosophy and Social Sciences; Education and Human
 Development; Languages, Literatures, Linguistics and Media; Law; Music and Performance; and
 Welsh and Celtic Studies. This strategic drive towards cross-disciplinary, complementary
 research fosters innovative thinking, enhances impact and maximises the research potential of
 smaller discipline areas resulting in a 32.3% increase in FTE submitted (from 24.80 in REF 2014
 to 32.80 in REF2021). This demonstrates Bangor’s commitment to the sustainability of
 research and impact across the disciplines which will inform strategy into the next cycle
 (specified in the College-wide Research and Impact Strategy). The aim is to enable individual
 excellence and collaborative innovation with a continued focus on key strengths and emerging
 areas of expertise.

 This strategic approach, which aligns with key UKRI funding principles as well as the four pillars
 of HEFCW’s ‘Vision for Research and Innovation in Wales’ (Excellence; Place; Innovation;
 Collaboration), has enabled the creation of a sustainable, language-based, culturally diverse
 portfolio of research which reflects the historic strengths of the university and impacts on
 culture, society and the arts in national and international contexts. This has been further
 enhanced through close collaboration with and investment from the Coleg Cymraeg
 Cenedlaethol (CCC [Welsh National College]) which plays a key role in creating a sustainable
 Welsh-medium research base at local and national level.

 Researchers have engaged with and been able to draw upon the distinctly Welsh culture of
 Bangor’s location and situate it within the global context. Frequent interaction between
 colleagues across the Arts and Humanities is fostered, and researchers are also reaching out to
 collaborate with those in the Sciences. This results in innovative research which addresses and
 impacts on current global concerns, and a long chronological research frame from the medieval
 period to today. There are four key interconnected areas of strength:

        Welsh and Celtic Studies (Edwards, Hunter, A. Jones, Lynch, Miguélez-Carballeira;
        Owen, Price, Pryce, Tully, Walford Davies, Wiliams)

        Interdisciplinary Cultural Studies (Blin-Rolland, Bru-Domínguez, Ervine, J. Lewis,
        Merlino, Miguélez-Carballeira, Miranda-Barreiro, Tamburelli, Tully)

        Creative Writing and Performance (Ap Siôn, Bru-Domínguez, Hunter, I. Jones,
        Lawrence, A. Lewis, Lynch, Pogoda, Price, Puw, Walford Davies, Wiliams, Williams)

        Linguistics and Language Planning (Cooper, Hodges, Ifan, C. Prys, D. Prys,
        Sanoudaki, Shank, Tamburelli, Tenbrink, Thomas, Webb-Davies)

 Welsh and Celtic Studies:
 Building on a long tradition, the study of Wales and the Celtic world continues to be a notable
 strength with a range of research across the disciplines. Enhanced coordination in this area was
 identified as a priority in REF2014 and this led to the creation in 2018 of the Canolfan Ymchwil

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Cymru / Research Centre Wales (Co-directors Edwards, Price and Pryce) to encourage
 interdisciplinary dialogue. There is particular strength in the study of medieval Wales with
 research centring on the exploration of material, plastic and textual manifestations in the Welsh
 tradition. Edwards’s seminal work on life in early medieval Wales, early medieval sculpture and
 debates around material evidence and identity was recognised by the British Academy and by a
 Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship (2015-2018). It is complemented by Pryce’s work on
 the medieval chronicles of Wales and Owen’s analysis of the textual and cultural impact of
 English law on Wales in the medieval and early modern periods. There is also notable strength
 in Welsh historiography through Pryce’s work on medieval historians of the Victorian age,
 Price’s work on Welsh Humanism and Hunter’s research in the largely neglected field of
 seventeenth-century Welsh literature. This cycle has also seen highly significant developments
 in the study of poetry in Wales. Wiliams’s biography of Cynan is a landmark publication in
 relation to Welsh encounters with the First World War. Walford Davies, through Bangor’s R. S.
 Thomas Centre, has produced an edition and study exploring poet’s interaction with modern art.
 Interdisciplinarity and innovation are also at the centre of new research in this field, as shown by
 Lynch’s collaboration with academics, poets and neuroscientists to explore neurological
 reactions to cynghanedd poetry.

 As well as foregrounding innovative interdisciplinary approaches, a major strength of Welsh and
 Celtic Studies at Bangor is the extent to which the field interfaces with the study of other
 cultures. This aspect has developed markedly since REF2014 and is an area earmarked for
 further growth, drawing on a wealth of interdisciplinary expertise at senior and mid-career level.
 For example, A. Jones’s work bridges between the study of Welsh literature and the broader
 European context with his discussion of the medieval Irish Táin Bó Cuailgne, Martin Buber’s
 translation into German of the Mabinogi, and the translational context of MS Peniarth 50.
 Miguélez-Carballeira (with A. Jones) was awarded AHRC OWRI funding (2018) to study the
 intersection between translation, language preservation and constructions of the exotic in Welsh
 focussing on the Hispanic-Welsh translations of career diplomat T. Ifor Rees. Bridging from the
 European perspective is Tully’s work on European Travellers to Wales (ETW; AHRC-funded
 with Swansea and the University of Wales Centre for Advanced Welsh and Celtic Studies, 2013-
 2017) and the perceptions of French and German-speaking travellers in particular since 1750.
 The research opened up new insights into perceptions of Wales in Europe and also the dialogue
 between Celtic cultures, in particular Wales and Brittany, and uncovered a wealth of material for
 the tourist and heritage industries. [See REF3_01]

 Interdisciplinary Cultural Studies:
 Interdisciplinarity is at the heart of Modern Languages research in particular; this area has seen
 major strategic development since REF2014 in order to bring added coherence and maximise
 research potential in smaller disciplines. The thematic focus on minoritization, marginalisation,
 identities and belonging complements the strengths in Welsh and Celtic Studies outlined above.
 It is anticipated that this focus (led by Miguélez-Carballeira and Tully) will exploit emerging
 synergies to lengthen the chronological scope (to the eighteenth/nineteenth centuries) and
 broaden the cultural frame (ie. Latin America). There is particular expertise across the literary
 and visual cultures of the Iberian periphery: Miguélez-Carballeira continues to build on her
 leading role in the field. Funded by a British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship (2016-2017), she
 has further developed her seminal work on sentimentality in the Galician context as well as
 exploring notions of masculinity in Spain and Catalonia in the context of twentieth-century
 nationalisms and examining post-ETA poetics in the field of Basque studies. Bru-Domínguez’s
 innovative and challenging work on Catalan visual culture tackles issues pertinent to the socio-
 political context of Catalonia but also interrogates broader theoretical debates around identity,
 sexuality and performativity. Miranda-Barreiro’s work on comics and graphic biography in
 Galicia and, moving beyond the Iberian frame, Blin-Rolland’s work on comics and the Breton
 liberation front have established new paradigms for the study of graphic literature by bringing
 together approaches to cultural minorities in contemporary France and Spain. The exploration of
 identity in minoritized cultures is brought into sharp linguistic focus in Tamburelli’s work on
 language and identity in both the Welsh and the Lombard/Italian contexts with discussions of
 language abandonment and integration. Tamburelli also co-founded the International Research

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Group on Contested Languages (with Turin), resulting in the publication of the first volume
 entirely dedicated to the notion of Contested Languages.

 Issues of identity and integration also draw the focus of this submission beyond Europe towards
 the global with an emphasis on immigrant cultures and cultural alterity with approaches which
 dovetail well with the study of minoritized contexts. Miranda-Barreiro’s major monograph on
 travel writing explores the interface between twentieth-century Spanish travellers and migrants
 and North American culture, while the often controversial and complex issues affecting France
 and its post-colonial legacy are examined in Ervine’s influential and innovative work on Islam
 and humour in contemporary France. His research into videogames and sport further advances
 current debates around belonging and identity in popular culture. Also focussing on minoritized
 groups, ECR J. Lewis explores integration, immigration, mobility and immobility in French-
 Algerian literary responses to the French-Algerian war. His recent work centres on prisons and
 incarceration in the francophone world and representations of the prison in contemporary
 France. Also with a focus on cultural responses to crime and marginalisation, Merlino’s work on
 the Mafia, identity formation and cultural representations of organised crime has been
 recognised by the award of a Marie Skłodowska-Curie fellowship hosted by the Department of
 Political and Juridical Sciences of the University of Messina (2018-2020). Fostering a better
 understanding of the intellectual networks which underpin these interdisciplinary encounters,
 Tully’s work on literary historiography explores the foundational, often hidden figures whose
 work enables and forms the canon for a global audience.

 Creative Writing and Performance:
 As well as the study of literature and culture outlined above, there has been a substantial body
 of allied, research-informed creative output. Lynch’s Caeth a Rhydd, a volume of poetry mostly
 in traditional cynghanedd metres was awarded the Wales Book of the Year People’s Choice
 Award in 2018. Wiliams’s Cardiau Post has been hailed as a celebration of the power of
 imagination. Hunter’s novel Ynys Fadog is an epic portrayal of a north-American Welsh
 diaspora community between 1818 and 1937, while the novel Y Fro Dywyll focusses on a north-
 American seventeenth-century Welsh Puritan community. A third novel, Ebargofiant, explores
 themes of language loss and language revival within a dystopic context. I. Jones’s fantasy
 novel, Dadeni, provides an incisive take on post-devolution Wales and identity politics, while his
 celebrated novel Babel, the first example of the ‘steampunk’ genre in Welsh which confronts the
 impact of transnational media on social justice and cohesion, won Book of the Year, Fiction
 category prize and the People's Choice Award at the 2020 Wales Book of the Year Award.
 Issues of identity and belonging are also explored in Williams’s play Hollti which was
 commissioned by the National Theatre of Wales (NTW) in 2017. Also commissioned by NTW,
 Price’s play Nansi encapsulates, through the renowned Welsh harpist Nancy Richards, the
 tensions between the rural traditions of Welsh life and modernity. At the Wales Theatre Awards
 2017, Price was awarded the ‘Best Playwright in the Welsh Language’ prize and Williams was
 nominated in the same category. Work in the field of musical composition also draws on both the
 Welsh literary tradition and the broader interdisciplinary context to create works embedded in
 their cultural and linguistic environment. These include: A. Lewis’s Fern Hill, inspired by Dylan
 Thomas’s poem and Puw’s opera, Y Tŵr, an adaptation by poet Gwyneth Glyn of Gwenlyn
 Parry’s play, which was staged at the Sherman Theatre in Cardiff and jointly produced by Music
 Theatre Wales and NTW. The work on opera has been a key focus of impact generation with a
 coordinated project led by Ap Siôn and Puw drawing together compositions by academics and
 postgraduates to broaden public access and understanding of the operatic medium in Wales.

 This substantial creative output is complemented by increased strength in research that
 synergises theory and practice as well as theory in practice in the area of performance. For
 example, Ap Siôn’s work on the international minimalist music canon, and in particular, his
 reading of Glass via Brecht, Genett and Beckett, draws together music and European stage
 theory, while A. Lewis’s composition Lebenslieder, inspired by Mahler’s setting of Rückert’s
 Kindertotenlieder, is a collaboration with ESRC-funded researchers in Psychology at Bangor,
 which explores the impact of electroacoustic music on dementia sufferers. There is an emerging
 profile in the area of performance art including ECR Pogoda’s work on avantgarde artist

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Christoph Schlingensief, and her founding role in the cultural organisation Deutsch-Walisische
 Freundschaft which fosters artistic collaborations and explorations of German and Welsh arts,
 including the arts collective Neue Walisische Kunst / Celf Newydd Cymru; Bru-Domínguez’s
 interrogation, working with dancers and photographers, of the construction and representation of
 the body in contemporary Catalan cultural production; and Lawrence’s choreographical
 approach to vertical dance and the built environment. Lawrence is also working with Tenbrink
 on vertical dance performance in the context of multi-medial translation. The strategic
 development of this broad range of research at the cutting edge of current artistic practice
 enables researchers across the disciplines to broaden their networks by engaging with visiting
 performers and new media. This is a vital component of the cross-disciplinary ethos and
 dovetails with recent strategic investment in performance facilities including the Pontio Arts and
 Innovation Centre.

 Linguistics and Language Planning:
 Language-based research enhances and underpins the work of researchers and creative
 practitioners in the areas of Welsh and Celtic Studies, Interdisciplinary Cultural Studies and
 Creative Writing and Performance by enabling deeper understanding of the cultural matrix and
 informing language, education and arts policy in Wales and the wider world. Work in this area is
 both responsive to and fundamental in the development of key WG and Third Sector initiatives
 and future research will continue to follow this approach. Linguistics remains a core strength with
 expertise in key foundational areas. Research in cognitive linguistics, which was central to the
 REF2014 submission, continues to push disciplinary boundaries with Tenbrink’s seminal work
 on cognitive discourse analysis (CODA), spatial cognition and the interface between language,
 thought and culture. Under Tenbrink’s direction, Bangor is part of a new consortium of eight
 institutions (led by TU Dublin) on a Marie Skłodowska Curie Innovative Training Network
 (Horizon 2020): ‘Enhancing spatial ability to help close the gender gap in STEM’ launched in
 January 2021. Beyond the cognitive field, there is also a sustained body of work on linguistic
 diachronic change, for example Shank’s work on the development of linguistic structure in
 English and Webb-Davies’s exploration of age variation and language change in Welsh.

 Building on the legacy of the ESRC Centre for Research on Bilingualism in Theory and Practice
 (2007-2012), Webb-Davies has completed the extensive Welsh/English Siarad Corpus. He has
 developed his work on codeswitching, consonant mutation and bilingual brain potentials, which
 is complemented by Tenbrink’s contrastive studies of how thought is represented in Welsh and
 English. There is also a notable body of work on typical and a-typical bilingual populations.
 Thomas has carried out innovative work on Alzheimer’s and executive control in older
 bi/monolinguals. Sanoudaki’s study of atypical bilingual development is the first of its kind to
 provide language profiles for Welsh-English bilingual children with Down's Syndrome. Shank
 has brought new insight to the understanding of linguistic identities in bi/multilingual Deaf
 populations. Research in the field of bilingual education includes Thomas's ground-breaking
 work on the development of a diagnostic measure of receptive vocabulary knowledge and her
 work on an ESRC-funded cross-institutional study (led by Cardiff) exploring the pedagogical
 aspects of the Corpws Cenedlaethol Cymraeg Cyfoes / National Corpus of Contemporary
 Welsh. Language learning and development in multilingual settings has also been explored in
 Tamburelli and Sanoudaki’s study of language acquisition in Polish/English children. Research
 in this field continues to draw on the extensive applied work in Welsh corpus and status
 planning, led by D. Prys, undertaken by the Language Technologies Unit (LTU), part of Canolfan
 Bedwyr, Bangor’s renowned Centre for Welsh Language Services, Research and Technology.
 For example, the work undertaken by Cooper on corpus design for Welsh and other lesser-
 resourced languages has benefitted from involvement with the extensive applied work in Welsh
 corpus planning and digital resource provision undertaken by the LTU, whose work has
 contributed substantially to the growth of the digital technology sector in Wales.

 Expertise in the allied area of Language Planning in the context of bilingual communities has
 grown considerably since REF 2014, supported in part by investment from the CCC. At a
 national level, Hodges and C. Prys’s work exploring the meeting points between macro and
 micro language planning in Wales has shown how complex language attitudes, ideologies and

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 norms impact on language use and language choices. This work is heavily cited in recent
 government-led strategic documents such the Welsh Government's 2017 Cymraeg 2050: Miliwn
 o Siaradwyr Cymraeg / Cymraeg 2050: A Million Welsh Speakers, which seeks to ensure the
 sustainability of the Welsh language for future generations [see REF3_02]. At a local level,
 Thomas has influenced Gwynedd Local Education Authority's Welsh Language Policy and led to
 the establishment of the Siarter Iaith Gymraeg Ysgolion Gwynedd, a Welsh language Charter for
 schools that focuses on increasing children's social use of Welsh, an initiative which was
 subsequently incorporated into the Welsh in Education Action Plan 2017-2021. Tamburelli’s
 work on the linguistic habits of Welsh-speaking teenagers is the first investigation into covert
 attitudes towards Welsh in North Wales. The impact and potential social benefits of initiatives
 promoting the use of Welsh are explored by Hodges and Ifan in their evaluative case study on
 the work of the CCC. Work in this area with impact beyond Wales includes research by
 Tamburelli which has effected language policy change in Lombardy through both research and
 awareness-raising events centred around the Welsh experience.


 Research Policies:

 As outlined in REF5A, research in these areas is supported at University level with mechanisms
 to ensure research integrity through the University Ethics committee, as well as Codes of
 Practice and Policies covering Research Ethics, Academic Integrity in Research and Research
 Data Management. Each School has a dedicated Research Ethics Officer who is the main point
 of contact for queries and referral of proposals to the College Ethics Committee. Publication is
 undertaken in line with the University Open Access Policy. 89 of the 218 outputs in this
 submission are open access, twice as many as required by the regulations. Beyond the
 oversight at University and College level, researchers are regularly made aware of the Codes of
 Practice and Policies relating to research. These are factored into staff and PGR research
 training programmes and updates on any changes are highlighted in staff bulletins. Peer review,
 both internal and external, is central to all aspects of research to ensure both quality and
 integrity.

 Section 2. People


 Staffing Strategy:

 Driven by the aim to promote and support excellent research and impact of national and
 international significance, the main staffing strategy combines ongoing development of existing
 staff expertise, especially that of senior staff who provide leadership in research, and fostering
 the research profiles of ECRs through mentoring and research development. Over the period of
 the current cycle, the staffing profile has been strategically adjusted to develop specific areas.
 Key ECRs (J. Lewis, Pogoda) have been appointed in order to strengthen existing and
 emerging interdisciplinary research activities with a stronger focus on minoritized
 cultures, visual cultures and performance studies. Furthermore, during the cycle, five
 positions funded via the CCC were made permanent by the University (Cooper, Hodges, Ifan,
 C. Prys, Williams), thus strengthening expertise in key areas with particular relevance to
 the Welsh context. Postdoctoral opportunities in the area of Welsh and Celtic Studies have also
 been provided via BA and AHRC funding. This strategic approach ensures the sustainability of
 existing strengths while enabling the development of new areas and will inform research
 planning moving forward.

 Researchers are regularly invited to apply for promotion with leadership in research
 commensurate with career stage being a key criterion alongside outputs and impact. Promotions
 since 2014 include 7 personal chairs (Ap Siôn, Miguélez-Carballeira, Price, D. Prys,
 Tenbrink, Thomas, Walford Davies), 1 Reader (Tamburelli), 9 Senior Lecturers (Ervine,
 Hodges, Ifan, A. Jones, Miranda-Barreiro, Owen, Puw, Sanoudaki, Webb-Davies). Regular
 progression has also occurred at lecturer level, between lecturer 1 and lecturer 2 grades (Blin-

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Rolland, Bru-Domínguez, Cooper, I. Jones, Pogoda, C. Prys, Shank, Williams). Of those
 listed here, 20 began their careers at Bangor as ECRs, demonstrating the efficacy of research
 development and staff support.


 Staff development:

 As well as accessing the University-level research development support outlined in REF5A,
 researchers benefit from a range of discipline-level support. Central to this is the role of senior
 academics in mentoring early and mid-career researchers. This is done formally through the
 annual Professional Development Review (PDR) process which involves careful career
 planning, setting milestones for publication, impact and grant capture, management of workload
 and identification of development needs. There is also an expectation for senior researchers to
 engage more generally to support others in developing initiatives, hosting events, providing
 feedback and building networks. Researchers at all career stages also benefit from an initiative
 headed by Tully as College Academic Lead for Grant Capture (working with the College Director
 of Research, Tenbrink, and School-level Directors of Research) which coordinates mentoring,
 robust peer review and enhanced research planning for researchers and research teams by
 marshalling the expertise of senior academics and key support staff to deliver bespoke advice,
 funder-specific workshops and assistance with costings and other administrative requirements.

 Researchers can also access seed-funding for projects leading to grant applications and have a
 research allowance to support their work. A study leave scheme is also available (23
 researchers in this submission have benefited). There are also targeted initiatives to foster wider
 engagement and impact, led by the College Director of Impact, including project-specific advice,
 workshops and dissemination of good practice and impact-generating opportunities. Sector-wide
 external development opportunities are also promoted at College level, such as participation in
 the Welsh Crucible programme (Ervine, Ifan, Pogoda and Sanoudaki), WUMS and Welsh-
 medium research training by the CCC (delivered by Hodges, C. Prys and D. Prys). Particularly
 beneficial in the context of this submission, researchers can access development opportunities
 in Welsh language acquisition, which is provided free of charge by the University and impacts
 positively on academic, creative and impact activities. It has enabled researchers such as
 Cooper and Tenbrink to undertake research on the Welsh language and teach and supervise
 PGR work through the medium of Welsh. Furthermore, Ervine is now a regular Welsh-speaking
 contributor on Francophone topics for Radio Cymru, and Miguélez-Carballeira is sought after
 as a commentator on Catalan, Galician and Spanish themes across the Welsh media.

 In addition to University and College-level support, researchers draw on a substantial range of
 external expertise. Staff are encouraged via the PDR process and mentoring to develop their
 knowledge of the sector through involvement with funding bodies, academic publishing, subject
 associations and external research networks. This ensures that research at Bangor is informed
 by current sector trends, enabling knowledge exchange and fostering best practice in research
 and impact within the institution. The depth of expertise available is illustrated by the high level
 of involvement with funding bodies, nationally and internationally. Notably, Tully has been
 involved in the design and monitoring of the AHRC OWRI initiative from its inception and has
 also acted as panel chair, peer review college member, DTP reviewer, BGP reviewer and
 member of the AHRC/DFG review panel. She was also a member of the AHRC Modern
 Languages Advisory Group. Edwards has reviewed extensively for the British Academy. Other
 funding body peer review work includes: BA (Tamburelli); AHRC (Tamburelli); ESRC
 (Sanoudaki, Thomas); Estonian Research Council (Tenbrink); Irish Research Council
 (Edwards, Tully); Leverhulme (Tamburelli); Polish Academy (Edwards); and UKRI Future
 Leaders (Tenbrink).

 Researchers at all career stages are encouraged via workshops and mentoring to develop their
 knowledge of academic publishing, including key Open Access initiatives, developing book
 proposals and (peer)reviewing skills. Researchers work with a broad range of high-level journals
 and book publishers as editors and/or peer reviewers (Blin-Rolland, Edwards, Hodges, A.

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Jones, Miranda-Barreiro, Price, Pryce, Tamburelli, Tenbrink, Thomas, Wiliams, Miguélez-
 Carballeira, Tully). This is viewed as an important element of career development, enabling
 researchers to engage with cutting edge work in their respective fields and enhancing their
 confidence and writing and editing skills, as well as encouraging leadership and influencing
 skills.

 Active membership of subject associations is also encouraged as a means to foster research
 leadership, enhance individual profiles and access key networks, subject-specific funding
 streams and development opportunities. Researchers at all career stages are well-represented
 on the organising committees of their subject associations, including: Anglo-Catalan Society
 (Bru-Domínguez), Society for Medieval Archaeology, Cambrian Archaeological Association;
 Gwynedd Archaeological Trust (Edwards), Society for Francophone Postcolonial Studies (J.
 Lewis), Welsh Legal History Society (Owen), Women in German Studies; Association for
 German Studies (Pogoda), COSIT (Conference of Spatial Information Theory); UK-Cognitive
 Linguistics Association (Tenbrink).

 Conference activities present a major opportunity for researchers to acquire key organisational
 skills, develop networks and create research teams. Involvement in such events is seen as
 particularly important for the development of ECRs in terms of building confidence and profile, as
 well as engagement with the leading experts in their fields. Researchers have (co)organised
 and (co)hosted over 40 major international conferences and symposia, often as the main
 international fora for experts in their respective fields, including the prestigious XVIth
 International Congress of Celtic Studies, 2019 (Lynch with A. Jones). Other examples include
 (at Bangor unless otherwise noted): ASMCF Annual Conference: Work and Play, 2017 (Blin-
 Rolland and Ervine); Comics & Nation conference, 2017 (Blin-Rolland and Miranda Barreiro);
 Re-Reading the Revolution conference, UCON, 2017 (Hunter); Annual Conference of the
 Society for Francophone Postcolonial Studies, 2019 (ECR J. Lewis); Postcolonial Spain:
 Contexts, Politics and Cultural Practices, 2017; “Poetry in Expanded Translation’, 2018
 (Miguélez-Carballeira); Association of German Studies Conference, 2018 (ECR Pogoda);
 Bangor Colloquia on Medieval Wales, 2014, 2016, 2018; Royal Historical Society conference on
 ‘Diverse Histories’, University of South Wales, Cardiff, 2018 (Pryce); UK Cognitive Linguistics
 Conference, 2016; 39th Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society, London, 2017
 (Tenbrink); International Conference on Bilingualism in Education, 2016, 2018 (Thomas);
 European Travellers to Wales conference, NLW, Aberystwyth, 2014 (Tully). Conferences held in
 Bangor benefit from College-level administrative support and free access to University facilities.


 Training and supervision of PGR students:

 In addition to the University-wide Doctoral School provision outlined in REF5A, PGRs in the Arts
 and Humanities benefit from specific opportunities for postgraduate development, including an
 annual induction event with talks by senior academics (Dean, Director of Research, Director of
 Postgraduate Research), Welsh-medium presentations by leading academics in Welsh and
 Celtic Studies and training workshops held throughout the year. PGRs are fully integrated into
 the research culture of their Schools and the College more widely and are encouraged to
 attend research seminars, conferences and other research events at Bangor and elsewhere.
 Supervision standards and development needs are closely monitored to ensure progress.
 Students complete an annual progress review each year that is chaired by a member of staff not
 involved in the supervisory team. The chair receives confidential reports from the student and
 the lead supervisor, and the chair is able to act on any issues that arise. The annual review
 meeting discusses the students’ progress, addresses training needs, and assesses skills and
 career development.

 The training provision for postgraduate researchers within this unit of assessment boasts a
 global reputation. For example, Miguélez Carballeira was invited to deliver a week-long
 graduate course on eco-critical approaches to contemporary Galician culture to doctoral
 researchers at the Graduate Center of City University of New York (CUNY) and a seminar to

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 doctoral candidates in Hispanic Studies at Princeton University, while Tenbrink has acted as
 external supervisor at universities in Germany, Switzerland and the USA and frequently offers
 training seminars internationally. Also notable is the long-standing postgraduate exchange
 programme between Bangor and Harvard which sees PGR students benefit from world-leading
 supervision in Celtic languages and literatures. Researchers have a broad range of experience
 as both supervisors and examiners at doctoral level and have examined PhD theses in Wales,
 the UK and Europe.

 Effective oversight combined with the expertise of supervisory teams across the submission
 have resulted in a period of outstanding success for postgraduate studies across the unit.
 83 PhDs have been supervised to completion since REF 2014 (an increase of 80% on the 46
 completions noted in the previous REF cycle), encompassing a broad range of areas. A number
 of successful doctoral students have gone on to become full-time staff at Bangor (Blin-Rolland,
 Cooper, Hodges, Ifan, C. Prys, Webb-Davies, Miranda-Barreiro) or take up academic
 positions elsewhere. Vibrancy in this area has been particularly enhanced by funding and
 training provided through the ESRC Wales Doctoral Training Centre and the AHRC’s Centre for
 Doctoral Training in Celtic Languages, led by Glasgow (10 PhD scholarships awarded to Bangor
 in this REF period). Other externally-funded PhDs include AHRC (ETW), the Worshipful
 Company of Drapers, CCC studentships and KESS scholarships; 33% of PGRs aligned with this
 submission were in receipt of external funding. The University has also offered various funding
 opportunities in this cycle, including a range of scholarships. The University also funds 5 GTA
 positions in Modern Languages on an ongoing basis; 40% of PGRs aligned with this submission
 were directly funded by the University.

 As well as excellent supervision, PGRs also benefit from dedicated study spaces in their
 Schools and in Bangor’s Main Arts Library, physical and virtual fora for social interaction with
 peers and academic staff (e.g. The Postgraduate Café; Twitter profile @CAHPostgrad), travel
 scholarships for postgraduate research students, and pathways for recognition of postgraduate
 students’ work including PGR participation in Annual Research showcase events, research
 seminar series and Research Centre activities. PGRs at all stages are encouraged to present
 their work with opportunities to showcase their projects at international conferences with
 financial support. PGRs in the area of Composition have the opportunity to showcase their work
 at the Bangor New Music Festival (coordinated by Puw).


 Equality and Diversity:

 Principles of equality and respect for diversity are at the core of research in this submission as
 evidenced, for example, by work in the area of Linguistics to develop new approaches to
 language in relation to the Deaf community, children with Downs syndrome and Voice
 Synthesisation, as well as work in the area of culture and identity within Modern Languages, in
 particular the focus on integration and migrant communities. This reflects the ethos of
 openness, inclusivity and cultural awareness across the disciplines. The profile of
 researchers in the submission in relation to nationality is diverse, with 37% from outside the UK,
 resulting in an international and culturally sensitive outlook. Furthermore, 66% are either native
 or fluent Welsh speakers, with a notable commitment from learners to learn the language to a
 high level. All Schools adhere to the bilingual ethos of the institution ensuring staff are able to
 communicate in the language of their choice.

 All Schools involved in this submission are committed to the principles of equality, diversity and
 social inclusion embedded in the mission statement of Bangor University. This commitment is
 aligned with pursuing Athena SWAN charter principles. Each School has a nominated Athena
 Swan / Equality Lead who sits on the College-level Equality, Diversity & Sustainability
 Committee and takes the lead on developing School-level submissions to Athena Swan. Two
 submissions for Bronze awards are planned for 2021 with another scheduled for 2022. The
 gender balance across this submission (based on head count) is 51.4% male / 48.5% female. In
 relation to PGRs, it is 39% male / 61% female. Of those promoted in this cycle, it is 48% male /

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 52% female. At professorial level, there is a balanced profile with 50% female. Of the new
 appointments in this cycle, 71.4% are female. Senior roles held by our female researchers
 (Miguélez-Carballeira, Edwards, Price, D. Prys, Tenbrink, Thomas, Tully) provide strong role
 models for others.

 Each Head of School is tasked with ensuring that staff are aware of and comply with the
 University's Equal Opportunities and Harassment and Bullying policies, Welsh Language policy,
 and other relevant policies and procedures. The HoS must also ensure that an ethos of equal
 opportunity is supported and fostered by enabling issues to be safely raised and resolved, and
 strategically reviewing initiatives and decision-making to ensure all obligations are met. Equality
 of Opportunity in relation to research support, access to facilities and input into research
 management structures is embedded in the committee structures and practices for managing
 research. Gender balance of committee membership is also comparable to wider staffing, and
 %FTE (or temporary reduction in hours) is not a factor when deciding eligibility for committee
 membership. All research-management committees are held in ‘family friendly’ hours and staff
 are made aware of flexible working policies to balance caring responsibilities and career
 progression. Support is given to staff taking parental/adoption leave; maternity pay is available
 from the first day of employment, and pre- and post-maternity support and advice is offered to
 improve retention of mothers returning from maternity leave.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Equality of Opportunity:

 As noted in section 2 above, the University is committed to equality of opportunity for all in
 relation to funding opportunities. Researchers at all levels (including PhD students) have access
 to the support mechanisms underpinning grant capture. Funding workshops, grant mentoring
 and funding information are open to all, including those on fractional contracts. ECRs are
 particularly encouraged to apply for funding and grant capture plans form part of the annual
 Performance Development Review process.


 Income:
 Total grant capture: GBP2,566,808
 There is a strong trajectory in terms of grant capture with a 543% increase in funding from UK-
 based charities (open competitive process) from GBP26,688 in REF14 to GBP171,617. UK
 Central government funding increased by 13% from GBP1,006,292 to GBP1,139,609 and
 funding from UK industry, commerce and public corporations increased by 20% from
 GBP42,689 to GBP51,211. Individual grant capture includes: Ap Siôn GBP39,097 (inc:
 Leverhulme Research Fellowship); Edwards GBP137,186 (inc: Leverhulme Major Research
 Fellowship); Hodges GBP69,753 (inc: Welsh Government); A. Lewis GBP53,384 (inc:
 Leverhulme Research Fellowship); Lynch GBP18,267 (EU); Miguélez-Carballeira GBP88,769
 (inc: BA Mid-Career Fellowship); Pryce GBP34,822 (inc: AHRC Research Grant); C. Prys
 GBP122,921 (inc: Welsh Government); D. Prys GBP1,326,695 (inc: EU, Welsh Government);
 Thomas GBP123,833 (inc: Welsh Government); Tully GBP346,401 (inc: AHRC Research Grant
 plus Follow-On Funding for Impact and Engagement); Webb-Davies GBP67,951 (inc: AHRC
 Research Grant); Wiliams GBP15,223 (inc: EU). Researchers have also obtained numerous
 smaller grants from internal sources and bodies such as the Learned Society of Wales, DAAD,
 IMLR, UCML, Erasmus, Swiss European Mobility, HEFCW / Welsh Crucible and CADW.
 Practice-based researchers have attracted funding from other sources such as the Arts Council
 Wales (ACW) and local funders for activities such as music festivals, music concerts and
 recordings, theatre performances and workshops and engagement with local industry.

 Infrastructure:
 Physical:
 There has been substantial strategic investment in physical infrastructure related to Arts and
 Humanities since REF2014. This has enhanced both research and impact across the disciplines.

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University opened its GBP51,000,000 Arts and Innovation Centre, Pontio, which houses two
 theatres (Theatr Bryn Terfel and the Studio Theatre), the White Box exhibition space, a cinema
 and a variety of integrated performance spaces (for circus and dance). The facility has enabled
 researchers to host events in collaboration with external partners and community (for example,
 performance related public-facing projects with Bru-Domínguez, Lawrence, Pogoda and Puw).
 In addition, the city’s ‘cultural quarter’ has been further enhanced through a GBP1,400,000
 Heritage Lottery Fund grant (with Bangor as partner) to rehouse Gwynedd Museum (renamed
 Storiel; board chaired by Hunter, 2015-2020) which hosts a large proportion of the University’s
 collections. The new museum has hosted engagement events such as the ‘EuroVisions’
 exhibition (2015) which was part of Tully’s ETW project. The University’s music facilities have
 also undergone a GBP3,500,000 renovation with a complete refurbishment of the Music Building
 and Studios and provision of high quality practice facilities. There has also been investment of
 GBP95,000 in the University Archives with improved storage and access, enabling the Archives
 to gain National Archives accreditation and providing more opportunities for public engagement.

 Textual and Material:
 Researchers have access to a wealth of collections and Research Centres including the
 Welsh Library (circa 42,000 items), the Arthurian Centre (which holds one of the largest
 collections of Arthurian Literature in the world, circa 3000 items), the R. S. Thomas Centre
 (providing access to the poet’s papers and ephemera, 856 items plus 5 linear metres of
 manuscript material), the Stephen Colclough Centre for the History of the Book (circa 700 items
 plus digitisation equipment), Bangor Cathedral Library (circa 2000 items), the Welsh Children’s
 Literature collection (circa 12,000 items), Bangor Archaeology collection (with items dating from
 the Neolithic period) and Bangor Art collection (one of the largest university collections in the
 UK, circa 2300 items). The University library is the largest Welsh repository after the National
 Library of Wales (NLW) including over 250,000 MS. The Archives and Special Collections
 continue to expand with notable recent acquisitions including the papers of the poets Cynan and
 Gwyn Thomas and further significant holdings for the R. S. Thomas collection (Walford Davies),
 funded in part by grants from the Victoria and Albert Museum (GBP18,500, the first grant of its
 kind in Wales) and The Friends of National Libraries (GBP10,000). Beyond the main library, the
 Centre for Galician Studies in Wales boasts a specialist library housing a significant book, film
 and audio-visual collection. Researchers in Music benefit from access to the Crossley Holland
 collection of 600 ethnic European and over 300 pre-Columbian instruments along with a
 substantial library of books on ethnomusicology and Celtic music (which was the focus of an
 AHRC doctoral project), the Welsh Pop Archive, the Archive of Traditional Welsh Music and the
 largest collection of facsimiles of medieval and renaissance music in Wales.

 The Research Centres referred to above (Arthurian; Galician; R. S. Thomas; Stephen
 Colclough) are central to the interdisciplinary research ethos at Bangor, hosting conferences,
 workshops and seminars and working with colleagues across the Arts and Humanities on impact
 and outreach activities. Two centres are of particular significance to this submission. The Centre
 for Galician Studies in Wales, founded by Miguélez Carballeira in 2006 and funded by a
 permanent grant by the Galician Regional Government (Xunta de Galicia; GBP23,000 annually),
 has played an active role in supporting interdisciplinary research, attracting high profile Galician
 writers-in-residence, musicians and artists, and engaging in major events such as the ‘Six
 Galician Poets’ tour, organised by Literature Across Frontiers, the Wales International Poetry
 Festival and Arc Publications (2016), and Festival No6 (2018). The Centre also funds the
 publication of the on-line journal Galicia-21 (co-edited by Miranda-Barreiro) and supports PGR
 research in this area. The R. S. Thomas Centre, co-founded by Walford Davies in 2000, offers
 dedicated facilities to researchers working on Thomas’s archive as well as supporting PGR
 research and organising research symposia. The Centre is currently advising on the renovation
 of Thomas’s house, Sarn-y-Plas, by the National Trust.

 Technical:
 There are a range of specialist technical facilities. Researchers in Music benefit from the
 Electroacoustic Music Studios which provide facilities for research in spatial audio and sonic art
 composition. Studio 1 (the Parry Williams Studio) houses a 20 channel sound spatialisation

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 system in an acoustically isolated environment. The extra height of the space (c. 8m x 7m x 3m)
 accommodates 8 speakers in a truss-mounted circular array above the listener, with 9 speakers
 at ear height and one subwoofer. The flexibility of this configuration allows work in range of
 commercial and experimental formats (5.1, 7.1, 8-channel, 16-channel dome) as well as making
 possible advanced work in high-order ambisonics. Smaller studios adjacent to Studio 1 provide
 similarly high-quality facilities oriented towards recording, 8-channel composition, and work with
 instrumental samples. Researchers in Linguistics benefit from advanced technical capabilities for
 interdisciplinary research on language use and development for both behavioural and
 neuroscientific approaches, including a sound recording lab for phonetic recordings and acoustic
 analysis, eye tracking equipment, and dedicated booths for computerised experiment design and
 the collection of reaction time data. Through collaboration with the School of Psychology,
 research on multilingualism, language learning and development has also benefitted from
 access to multiple electroencephalogram (EEG) systems, including an open access 128 channel
 high-density EEG system with an integrated 2000 Hz eye tracking capability. Recent investment
 has further improved the range of language testing materials for the identification of
 developmental milestones and clinical markers in vocabulary, phonology and grammar.
 Language researchers also have access to specialist translation software (TRADOS), as well as
 the range of services developed by the LTU and available via the Welsh National Language
 Technologies Portal.

 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Across the unit of assessment, there is significant national and international collaboration
 with other research institutions and external research users with a demonstrable impact
 on research in key disciplines. Much of the work undertaken has directly benefitted the
 general public through changes to language and education policy, new understanding of
 localities and communities and enhanced cultural opportunities. Key non-academic
 audiences who have engaged with and benefitted from research in this unit include: policy
 makers (inc: Welsh Government); the Education sector (all levels); the Heritage sector (inc: Visit
 Wales; NLW; RCAHMW; CADW; National Trust); the Performing Arts sector (inc: NTW; Welsh
 Opera; ACW); and organisations in the areas of Creative Writing and Media (inc: Literature
 Wales; BBC; S4C). Researchers have developed considerable international profiles as public
 speakers for academic and non-academic audiences nationally and internationally with over 100
 plenaries, keynotes and invited presentations in the UK, Europe and the United States. This
 represents a considerable contribution to the research base, the economy and society
 with impact evident across all disciplines.

 Welsh and Celtic Studies:
 Research collaborations in this area extend from those with a focus on landscape and the
 development of society to those connecting literature and history. Medieval Celtic landscapes
 and material culture are central to Edwards’s collaborative work which has transformed
 understanding of the early economic and social development of North Wales and enhanced
 public understanding of key sites. She is the founder of the Early Medieval Wales Archaeology
 Research Group (EMWARG) and has led on the prestigious Project Eliseg 2010–17 (with
 Chester, CADW and Llangollen Museum). She also led the Rhuddgaer Excavation (with
 Gwynedd Archaeological Trust and CADW) which revealed an exceptionally rare early medieval
 farming landscape in south-west Anglesey, and was involved in a Leverhulme-supported
 research network with Cambridge, exploring the conversion of island landscapes. Improving
 public access to the social history of North Wales was central to Owen’s ESRC IAA grant-
 funded “Opening the Vaults” project (with Bangor’s Institute for the Study of Welsh Estates),
 which developed an on-line toolkit to assist members of the public with archival research. Also
 enabling access to new sources, Tully’s AHRC-funded (with Swansea and CAWCS) ETW
 project involved collaborations with various heritage sector groups (NLW, Ceredigion Museum,
 Storiel, Swansea Museum, RCAHMW, Literature Wales and Visit Wales) and produced outputs
 specifically designed to develop public understanding of European travellers perceptions of
 Wales (educational resources, exhibitions, digital artefacts, websites and public talks), as well as
 informing practice in the heritage and tourism sectors. [See REF3_01]

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The strength in literary historiography in this area is highlighted by Pryce’s work as Co-I on a
 major AHRC-funded research project to edit the works of the Welsh Renaissance scholar
 Humphrey Llwyd (with Exeter and Queen’s, Belfast). The interface between literature and history
 is also key to Wiliams’s outreach and impact activities which, as an expert on Welsh literature
 and war, have been heavily directed towards commemorating the events of 1914-18. They have
 included lectures at venues such as the NLW and the Lloyd George Museum, and work with A-
 level students studying the Welsh Baccalaureate. His work has played a major role in
 broadening public understanding of Wales’s role in WWI. He served on the historical advisory
 group of Cymru’n Cofio / Wales Remembers 1914-1918 and contributed to numerous television
 and radio programmes, including researching and presenting the documentary Gwaed Gwirion
 (Ffranc / S4C, 2014). This was one of a number of media contributions in the area of Welsh and
 Celtic Studies over the current cycle which saw researchers bring their work to a broader
 audience. For example, Hunter wrote and presented ‘Evan Jones a’r Cherokee’, a three-part
 documentary series (Cwmni Da / S4C, 2016), based on his volume Llwybrau Cenhedloedd
 (2012), while Pryce also contributed to numerous television and radio programmes across the
 BBC and S4C on topics relating to medieval Wales including ‘In Our Time’ with Melvyn Bragg
 (BBC Radio 4).

 Interdisciplinary Cultural Studies:
 Research collaborations in this area extend from those with a focus on culture and literature to
 society and politics with impact beyond the UK. The particular expertise in minoritized cultures is
 highlighted through a number of key interventions in periphery-periphery debates and the
 exploration of identity politics. Miguélez-Carballeira has been involved in the research networks
 La experiencia de la sociedad moderna en España (1875-1990) (led by Basque Country) and
 Contested Identities: Cultural Dialogues between Small Nations (led by Glasgow). Her work on
 Catalan nationalism led to interviews in two Catalan newspapers in 2016 (El Món, Nationalia)
 and she was interviewed on BBC Wales and the BBC World Service on four occasions during
 the autumn of 2017 in the aftermath of the Catalan Referendum. Miranda-Barreiro has been
 interviewed about his research on Galician migration to New York on Galician radio and written
 for the press on Galician identity, Galician anti-fascist movements in New York during the
 Spanish Civil War and and fascism during the Spanish Civil War and Franco's dictatorship. He is
 a member of the UCLan Research Centre for Migration, Diaspora and Exile (MIDEX) and also
 collaborates closely through Bangor’s Centre for Galician Studies in Wales with his counterpart
 in the Galician centre at UC Cork. Merlino is a member of the Horizon 2020 MessCa
 interdisciplinary research project (led by Messina) which is aimed at investigating the structure,
 history, ethos, and modus operandi of mafia groups in the province of Messina, in North-Eastern
 Sicily. J. Lewis is developing links with researchers at Liverpool, Nottingham Trent and Warwick
 in relation to his emerging research on prisons.

 Researchers have also been active in bringing new perspectives on European cultures to public
 audiences and schools. For example, Ervine is a prolific commentator on French popular culture
 and engages with media outlets across the spectrum (inc. The Conversation; BBC World
 Service; Radio Cymru; media outlets in France and the USA) and also contributes regularly,
 along with Blin-Rolland, to schools outreach programmes, bringing research on French popular
 culture to GCSE and A-level students. Pogoda worked with Pontio to curate the May ´68 Film
 retrospective and the Berlin Psylence Weekend with a talk introducing the work of Schlingensief.
 Researchers have also engaged with writers and translators to uncover new sources and inform
 practice. Miguélez-Carballeira (in collaboration with A. Jones) was approached (by Vigo and
 the Xunta de Galicia) to produce the Welsh translation (one of 50 translations into other
 languages) of the Vindel Parchment (held by the Morgan Library & Museum in New York) to
 mark the exhibition of the document for the first time in a Galician museum. Tully has continued
 her work in the field of literary networks and is currently a member of the Crossing Borders:
 World Literature as Contemporary Romanticism research network (led by Oxford and Humboldt,
 Berlin), engaging with contemporary Latin American authors to explore the historical movements
 which have influenced their work.


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Creative Writing and Performance:
 Researchers in this area have been particularly active in engaging with key audiences locally,
 nationally and internationally. In the field of Creative Writing, there has been a considerable
 benefit to both public and practitioners. In addition to the benefits to the publishing industry
 resulting from the creative outputs themselves, researchers have contributed to the development
 of others through initiatives such as Literature Wales’s Writers on Tour scheme. Hunter, A.
 Jones, Lynch, Price, Walford Davies and Wiliams delivered talks to literary and local cultural
 organisations, including at Literature Wales’s Tŷ Newydd Creative Writing Centre. Hunter, I.
 Jones, Lynch, Price, and Wiliams have also taken part in the National Eisteddfod of Wales as
 adjudicators. Researchers in this field have fostered enhanced public access to both their own
 work and that of others. As well as Price’s and Williams’s collaborations with NTW, which saw
 the performance of two new, acclaimed dramas (Nansi and Hollti), new audiences have also
 been reached through translations into Catalan (2018) and Spanish (2018) of Price’s acclaimed
 novel O! Tyn y Gorchudd (2002) and the English translation of Hunter’s Y Fro Dywyll (2015). In
 the field of composition, there have been numerous opportunities for public and practitioner
 engagement. A. Lewis’s work with the Electroacoustic Wales network fosters the work of new
 composers, as does Puw’s continued curation of the annual Bangor New Music Festival. Ap
 Sion and Puw’s Welsh opera project has engaged new audiences of all ages and enhanced
 public understanding of a genre which is often seen to be elitist. In the area of performance,
 Lawrence works locally with community groups and is the founder member of the Vertical
 Dance Forum on a Creative Europe funded project with events in Wales, Italy, Ireland, Croatia,
 France, England and Canada.

 The application of research in the area of performance studies is also creating new links across
 cultures and disciplines for the benefit of public, practitioners and the education and health
 sectors. Pogoda is organising the conference Artistic Research into Modern Languages and
 Cultures (funded by UCML, IMLR, and DAAD) which builds on the newly-founded artistic project
 Deutsch-Walisische Freundschaft, and the public exhibition ‘Lighthouses into Futurity’ (in
 collaboration with German writer Alexander Kluge, 2018). Bru-Domínguez is working with
 artists and performers exploring creativity, space and poetics (with Illes Balears and Ministerio
 de Economía y Competitivedad). Pogoda’s practice-based and artistic-led expertise was also
 instrumental in two research collaborations resulting from the Welsh Crucible Programme: Year
 of the Sea: Assessing Changes in Marine Ecosystems through Literature, Arts and Law and
 Communicating the Complexities of Climate Change. Ifan has been involved in the highly
 successful Sistema Cymru Codi'r Tô music and community regeneration project in North Wales
 and collaborated on the Corneli Cudd / Hidden Corners projects (2012-2015), taking music into
 care homes for people with dementia in the local area, complementing A. Lewis’s collaboration
 with ESRC-funded researchers in Psychology at Bangor exploring the impact of electroacoustic
 music on dementia sufferers.

 Linguistics and Language Planning:
 Research in this area has exerted notable influence in the academic domain and had important
 impact in the areas of education and policy. Researchers have made a considerable contribution
 to specific communities with disabilities through key collaborations. Shank’s work on health and
 wellbeing in deaf communities has culminated in a set of recommendations for assessing,
 addressing and supporting the health needs of the d/Deaf community in Wales. Sanoudaki has
 worked closely with external partners such as the Down’s Syndrome Association as well as
 schools and centres for children with special needs to understand how children with
 developmental disorders such as Down Syndrome and autism achieve and maintain
 bilingualism. Cooper works with the Canolfan Dysgu Cymraeg Cenedlaethol / National Centre
 for Learning Welsh on the sounds of the Welsh language and appeared on the S4C television
 programme ‘Drych: Achub Llais John’ (2019), with the LTU, looking at research into Welsh
 speech synthesis for people who have lost their voice. Thomas’s work on the development of a
 standardised measure of receptive vocabulary for Welsh has led internationally to better
 assessment of bilinguals’ needs. Her volume Bilingual Teaching Methods: a reference guide for
 educators (2018) was aimed specifically at bridging research and practice, in line with the key
 goals of education reform in Wales, and has been used widely among practitioners working on

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the New Curriculum for Wales. She is currently working on the Corpws Cenedlaethol Cymraeg
 Cyfoes / National Corpus of Contemporary Welsh (with Cardiff, Swansea and Lancaster;
 ESRC/AHRC funded).

 D. Prys’s work with the LTU has resulted in a range of tools and databases, made available
 through the Unit’s Welsh National Language Technologies Portal (launched in 2015) which
 benefit the translation industry through the provision of bespoke on-line dictionaries, proofing
 tools and translation corpora. The work of the LTU has a central role in the Government’s Welsh
 Language Technology Action Plan (2018). This has had wide international impact, including on
 the formulation of the Resolution passed by the European Parliament in 2018 on Language
 Equality and the Digital Age. It has also impacted on the publication of the Digital Language
 Survival Kit (2018) as part of Europe’s ‘Digital Language Diversity Project’. The LTU has also
 been made a partner of Mozilla, the international company currently engaged in crowdsourcing
 in multiple languages for open source development of speech technology resources in its
 Common Voice project. [see REF3_03].

 Researchers have also had a marked influence in the fields of Welsh language policy and its
 interface with education. Hodges and C. Prys work closely with Menter Iaith Cymru (National
 language promotion organisation), the Welsh Council for Voluntary Action (with the Welsh
 Language Commissioner) and Welsh Government (including on the Rural Education Action
 Plan). They are co-chairs of the WISERD (Wales Institute of Social and Economic Research and
 Data) Language, Culture and Identity Thematic Group and were members of the European
 Cooperation in Science and Technology Research Network - New Speakers of Minority
 Languages. Hodges is a regular media contributor and C. Prys was the sociologist on the S4C
 / Cwmni Da interactive programme 'Generation Beth?' which was part of a Europe-wide
 exploration of the views and lifestyles of the current generation of 15-34 year olds. Tamburelli’s
 work on language policy and language attitudes has contributed to an in-depth understanding of
 the linguistic behaviour and attitudes of Welsh-speaking teenagers with recommendations for
 interventions that will enable Welsh to thrive as a medium of communication among young
 people. His work has had international impact through strong links with researchers and
 stakeholders in various bilingual regions across Europe facing issues of language maintenance
 and/or language recognition (Catalonia, Galicia, Friesland, Lombardy, Sicily, South Tyrol,
 Veneto), and has played a leading role in the development of new legislation on the
 maintenance of the Lombard language. Bangor’s strong international reputation in Linguistics
 research is further demonstrated by Tenbrink’s research collaborations which span the UK,
 Ireland, Switzerland, Germany, Netherlands, Australia, New Zealand and the United States,
 while Webb-Davies is collaborating on an UKRI/NRF grant (with Arizona) researching mutation
 in Welsh.

 Researchers have also worked to influence the uptake of Welsh in schools. Since 2009 Lynch,
 Price and Wiliams have collaborated in organizing an annual five-day residential course for A-
 level students of Welsh (First Language and Second Language) at the Urdd’s Glan-llyn centre
 (since 2014 a total of around 1,000 students have attended). Researchers have also participated
 in the CCC’s Y Gymraeg ar Daith initiative which aims to increase the number of A-level
 students studying Welsh. This work is augmented by a WG special task group of which Lynch is
 a member, which has produced a national action plan to encourage progression in the study of
 Welsh from GSCE through to higher education and PGCE courses for teachers of Welsh. Lynch
 also served on an advisory committee convened by the WJEC to review and update the Welsh
 (First Language) A Level Specification; he further collaborated with the WJEC to produce an
 open-access digital teaching resource on the Gododdin poem to support the delivery of the unit
 on early and medieval Welsh poetry. Pryce has also been involved in the work of the Welsh
 Government’s Culture, Welsh Language and Communications Committee in discussing the
 provision of Welsh history in the New Curriculum for Wales.

 Academic Recognition and Wider Contribution:
 The strength of research at Bangor is underlined by numerous accolades and key
 appointments. In the Welsh context, Edwards was elected chair of the Royal Commission on

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Ancient and Historic Monuments of Wales in 2019 while the following have been elected as
 Fellows of the Learned Society of Wales (LSW): Pryce (2011), Edwards (2012), Hunter (2013),
 Price (2015), Lynch, Tully, Wiliams (2016). Edwards is a member of Council and Trustee for
 the LSW, sits on the selection committee for election of public fellows and has served on
 working parties (Welsh Studies; Schools Curriculum; Equality). Pryce chaired the Society’s
 History, Philosophy and Theology Scrutiny Committee 2013–16. Tully chairs the Society’s
 Language, Literature and Theory Scrutiny Committee, of which Wiliams is also a member.
 There is also notable service to the arts in Wales. Wiliams sits on the Directors’ Board of Cwmni
 Theatr Bara Caws (2017-), was a Member of the ACW (2010-16), Chair of the Council’s Capital
 Committee (2013-16) and Deputy-Chair of the Welsh Books Council’s Grant Panel (2016-19).
 Miguélez-Carballeira was admitted into the Gorsedd of Bards in 2019 in recognition of her
 contribution to the field of Translation Studies in the Welsh context. In the field of education,
 Hunter is a director of the CCC, while Thomas is a member of the Cyngor Partneriaeth y
 Gymraeg / Welsh language Partnership Council and is also a member of the COVID-19
 Pandemic Academic Expert Group. Further, D. Prys received the BCUHB Achievement Award:
 National Health Service: Services to Bilingual Healthcare (2016).

 On a UK-wide level, the academic standing of senior researchers has been acknowledged,
 particularly in the field of Welsh and Celtic Studies. Edwards was elected a Fellow of the British
 Academy in 2016. Pryce and Owen are Fellows of the Royal Historical Society and Pryce is
 also an RHS Council member. Hunter was a member of UoA 28 panel for REF 2014 and of UoA
 26 for REF 2021. In the field of language research, D. Prys was awarded the National
 Womenspire Award: Build Wales (Inspiration for Women in the Science and Technology
 category) (2018) and the Royal College of British Speech and Language Therapists 'Giving
 Voice' Award (2019). C. Prys is a Management Committee member for the UK and Deputy
 Chair for the Language Rights Working Group. Ervine has been a regular contributor to the All
 Party Parliamentary Group on Modern Languages. At an international level, Edwards held an
 associate fellowship of the Department of Celtic Languages and Literatures, Harvard, where A.
 Jones, Lynch and Pryce were Visiting Scholars; Hunter is a member of the Awarding Panel of
 Harvard University’s Frank Knox Memorial Fellowship; Miguélez Carballeira was appointed
 member of the adjudication panel for a major national essay award in Galicia (Premio Nacional
 de Ensaio Manuel Murguía); and D Prys is coordinator of the ISO / TC37 Socioterminology
 Working Group (the international standards body for language and terminology).




                                                                                           Page 15
