Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Oxford Brookes University

 Unit of Assessment 27: English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit context and structure

 English Language and Literature at Oxford Brookes comprises a dynamic group of researchers
 whose work combines traditional academic excellence with innovative practice-based
 scholarship. Our location in Oxford provides us with access to world-class research resources,
 and we have particular expertise in textual studies, editing and archival work. Working within the
 framework of a successful and ambitious modern university, our researchers are at the cutting-
 edge of disciplinary developments in creative writing, the interface between critical and creative
 methodologies, and other branches of research-in-practice. The UoA is home to an independent
 poetry pamphlet press, ignitionpress, and two academic journals, Utopian Studies and The John
 Clare Society Journal. Staff play a leading role in the learned societies and editorial boards which
 shape our disciplines, and co-ordinate a lively programme of in-house seminars, lectures,
 conferences and public events. Impact is a core part of our mission. Our strategy has prioritised
 hard-to-reach local communities, bringing the benefits of our work to those in Oxfordshire who
 would not otherwise have access to art and literature, and then scaling up our activities in national
 and international contexts.

 Since 2014 we have continued to target resources towards the growth of our five research
 clusters (see below) which foster collaboration and facilitate impact. Most cluster members are
 in the School of English and Modern Languages. Others are based in the School of Publishing
 (Davis, Franklin, Potter) and the School of History, Philosophy and Culture (Lischinsky). All
 staff and research students join at least one cluster, developing their own research agendas
 alongside colleagues with similar interests. Activities such as our regular seminar series, which
 hosts leading scholars from outside Brookes, have fostered a rich, collaborative environment in
 which research flourishes.

 The Gender and Technologies cluster focuses on modernist avant-garde cultures and the
 history of embodiment. Monographs include Goody’s study of the intersection between
 gendered subjectivity and leisure technologies, E. White’s exploration of modernist identity and
 machines, Munro’s account of queer American modernism, and a study of the intersection
 between food, literature and philosophy by Christou (member of the unit until 2018). Other
 outputs take a longer historical view including Jackson-Houlston’s monograph on gender and
 Walter Scott, and Craik’s work on the overlapping early modern histories of anatomy and poetics.

 Networks and Localities (formerly Communities and Ecologies) explores national,
 transnational and international links between peoples and cultures. Monographs focused on
 Britishness, and British encounters with others, include Jay’s account of British writing in Paris,
 and Hawes’ study of Englishness. Kövesi’s monograph offers a revisionist account of John
 Clare, Britain’s pre-eminent poet of place, and is complemented by S. White’s work on rural
 writing in the Romantic period and by Franklin’s novels on class and belonging in contemporary
 rural Britain. Cross-cutting narratives of nationhood emerge through O’Gorman’s monograph on
 the transnational 9/11 novel. The cluster’s focus on belonging and unbelonging, and on diasporic
 communities, is furthered by Pohl’s work on national identity in eighteenth-century European
 literature, and Kontou’s on the otherworldly literary networks created by nineteenth-century
 spiritualism.

 The Materialities cluster supports work on editing, textual scholarship, and book history.
 Members have produced several editions of world-leading importance including Jay (Margaret
 Oliphant), Lowe (John Ford), and Craik (Ben Jonson). Davis’ work on South African literary
 culture offers an international perspective. Further editorial work in progress includes Pohl’s
 edition of Elizabeth Montagu’s letters, supported by an AHRC networking grant, and Roe’s

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Longman edition of the Complete Poems of Christina Rossetti. Textuality comes into
 conversation with material culture through Roe’s work on the intersection between Victorian
 poetry and painting, and Higgins’ on the material history of performance.

 Memory, Conflict and Life-writing brings together colleagues whose work focuses on
 narratives of the self, particularly through creative practice. Chan’s collection Flèche, which won
 the 2020 Costa Prize for Poetry, considers the queer, non-white body in contemporary Hong
 Kong and beyond, and puts forward fencing as a metaphor for the simultaneously weaponized
 and vulnerable self. Chamberlain’s novels, set during the Second World War, explore from a
 different angle the gendered implications of conflict. Extending the focus on under-represented
 voices, Aubert’s work sheds light on processes of memory-making during the First World War,
 while Potter’s monograph explores how doctors, nurses and ambulance drivers create
 alternative narratives of conflict.

 The Language and Discourse group has a specific focus on the relation between discourse,
 ideology and society. Macrae’s monograph, developed with British Academy funding (Small
 Research Grant), considers how language works in its immediate contexts by focusing on
 examples from twentieth-century fiction. This work is complemented by Lischinsky’s on the
 social, agential and political issues revealed by linguistic techniques. Furthering the group’s
 interest in language and identity, Ellis explores how literary style reveals links between
 cosmopolitan space and youth identity in contemporary black British fiction.

 The UoA’s activities are overseen by a Research Lead (Craik) who has responsibility for strategy
 and management. All researchers complete a Personal Research Plan (PRP) every May and
 are invited to refresh their plans mid-cycle to ensure that time and QR funding are carefully
 invested. Staff are encouraged to identify research and impact goals in keeping with their career
 stage, and to reflect each year on progress. This process is managed by the Associate Dean for
 Knowledge Exchange for the Faculty, in conjunction with Craik and Kövesi as Head of School,
 with feedback offered in a spirit of fairness and transparency. Research tariffs are allocated in
 accordance with the university’s well-established workload planning framework.


 Research and impact objectives

 In REF2014 we declared our aim to sustain and enhance the vitality of our international research
 strengths. We planned to do this by:

    -   Expanding the total number of staff producing the most significant, intellectually coherent
        and original research outputs;
    -   Continuing proactively to foster the research of early and mid-career researchers through
        support, mentoring and the university’s commitment to research as an integral part of
        academic duties;
    -   Extending our community of postgraduate researchers;
    -   Developing interdisciplinary and collaborative outputs, projects and scholarly encounters.

 We have fulfilled our first objective as follows. Through strategic investment and robust student
 recruitment, the unit has extended in both size and scope. In the 2001 RAE, 8.75 FTE were
 returned; 15 in 2008; 14.7 in 2014; and 21.6 in REF2021. Overall staff levels for the unit have
 increased while the core staff from 2014 have been retained. Of the 17 staff submitted in
 REF2014, 12 are returned in REF2021. The assessment period since 2014 has been the most
 successful in the unit’s history in terms of research of world-leading quality, as evidenced by the
 publication of 17 monographs (up from 14 in 2014).

 Our remaining three objectives have also been achieved, as outlined below in Sections 2 and 4.

 Impact development


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Support for impact is delivered through the Faculty Impact Lead (Goody) and the university’s
 Research Impact Steering Group. The university offers dedicated sessions on planning,
 delivering and recording impact, often working in partnership with the Research and Business
 Development Office. Informal support is provided by the unit’s ‘Impact Champions’ whose work
 underpins our three submitted Impact Case Studies (ICS). The unit invests in additional training
 from external consultants, to which postgraduate, postdoctoral and ECRs are particularly
 welcomed, and a regular programme of faculty and school events explores the benefits of impact.
 Impact is firmly embedded into the annual PRP process, and is considered in workload
 allocations as well as applications for promotion.

 Our approach to achieving impact over the assessment period has had two strands. Firstly,
 Kövesi, Munro, Potter and White have been supported by awards from the university’s
 Research Excellence in Impact competitions which have enabled the development of our three
 ICS. In parallel, we have developed impact more generally by supporting Craik, Higgins, Lowe,
 Macrae, O’Gorman, Roe and S. White though the deployment of university, faculty and school
 funds. These smaller seed grants have mainstreamed impact, allowing the majority of colleagues
 to engage in some form of activity. Many of the UoA’s impact events were featured in the faculty’s
 inaugural Think Human festival in 2018, and further developed in 2020’s follow-up festival. In
 these ways we have created flexible pathways towards impact, supporting colleagues at every
 career stage with a view to ensuring the UoA’s future resilience and vitality.

 A commitment to serve those who are marginalised from the traditional literary mainstream fuels
 all of our impact work. The university’s unique position within but also on the edges of Oxford’s
 historical establishment has enabled us to find bold new ways to increase the reach and
 significance of our research. All three of our ICS engage audiences who have traditionally found
 it difficult or impossible to access the arts through Oxford’s usual channels. Our strategy of
 engaging with local organisations, charities and independent enterprises, then gradually scaling
 up capacity, has allowed us to bring our research to ever wider and more diverse beneficiaries.
 The Oxford Brookes Poetry Centre, under Munro’s direction, has grown from grassroots
 beginnings into a confident, globally oriented platform for cultural experiment. The Poetry
 Centre’s activities are supported by permanent staff including celebrated poet (Chan) as well as
 academics with expertise in poetry from the sixteenth to the twentieth centuries (Craik, Kövesi,
 Potter, Roe). The Centre’s extensive portfolio of impact activities includes a thriving independent
 poetry press, ignitionpress, which has published 14 pamphlets since its launch in 2018. The
 press has a specific remit to foster emerging voices which break the mould of contemporary
 poetry, and has published new work by Belinda Zhawi (originally from Zimbabwe), Jennifer Lee
 Tsai (a British poet of Chinese heritage), the Irish poet Majella Kelly, the queer Greek poet Kostya
 Tsolákis, and the Canadian-born Alycia Pirmohamed. Chan’s A Hurry of English was selected
 as the Poetry Book Society Summer pamphlet choice for 2018, with Pirmohamed’s Hinge and
 Isabelle Baafi’s Ripe winning the same accolade in 2020 and 2021. The Oxford Brookes
 International Poetry Competition, which has run annually since 2015, celebrates the diversity of
 poetry written in English through its English as an Additional Language category. In 2020, the
 competition attracted a record number of 1,614 entries from 740 poets in 56 countries. The
 Centre’s writing workshops, readings, exhibitions, symposia and open mic evenings – often
 organised in partnership with local charities or community organisations such as The Old Fire
 Station, Pegasus Theatre, the Albion Beatnik Bookshop and The Archway Foundation – have
 created a constellation of new hubs for writing and reading which together advocate for poetry’s
 value in today’s society.

 The Poetry Centre’s successes are mirrored in the UoA’s wider impact activities. Many of these
 serve economically disadvantaged communities for whom universities, and indeed Oxford itself,
 may seem impossibly remote. Craik’s 2015 project ‘Watching’, funded as PI by a Wellcome
 Trust Arts Award and supported by faculty QR funding, used early modern literature and science
 to raise awareness of the benefits of healthy sleep in areas of significant economic deprivation
 in Edinburgh. The reach of the project extended further when it was adopted by Edinburgh’s Reid
 School of Music for outreach work with schools in The Gambia aimed at improving children’s
 language and literacy skills. S. White’s ‘Mapping Magic’ project, supported by a faculty events

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 grant, partnered with UK heritage organisations to create interactive maps showing how folklore
 can engender a sense of community, especially in disadvantaged rural areas. Launch events
 took place in 2016 and 2017 with the Selkirk Conservation Area Regeneration Scheme, with the
 Brontë Parsonage Museum, and with Discovering Shropshire’s History in Shrewsbury. Macrae’s
 ‘Integrating English’ project, run in partnership with Northumbria University and Aston University,
 benefits teachers through CPD conferences and a teacher-oriented blog whose development
 was supported by a British Academy/Leverhulme Small Grant. Relatedly Macrae served as AQA
 examining body Expert Subject consultant from 2012-2016, while Roe was an invited speaker in
 2016 for an English & Media Centre CPD teacher-training day on Christina Rossetti. All of these
 impact initiatives have been underpinned by school and faculty funding.


 Interdisciplinarity

 Interdisciplinarity is at the heart of the UoA’s intellectual identity and is ‘hard-wired’ into all five
 research clusters which are unconstrained by disciplinary boundaries or traditional, period-based
 specialisation. Researchers play key roles in the university’s new Research, Innovation and
 Knowledge Exchange (RIKE) networks. For example Craik is a member of the Steering Group
 of Children and Young People. Our rich commitment to interdisciplinary ways of working is
 evidenced by the monographs of Christou (English/Philosophy), Davis (English/Publishing),
 Chamberlain, Franklin, Goody, Hawes, Jackson-Houlston, Jay, Munro and Potter
 (English/History), Macrae (English/Linguistics), O’Gorman (English/Politics), and E. White
 (English/Computing). Further evidence of interdisciplinary excellence is found in the leading
 journal articles by Aubert (English/French), Craik (English/Medical Humanities), Higgins and
 Lowe (English/Drama) and Roe (English/Visual Art).

 The UoA has also achieved success with interdisciplinary practice-based research. Joss has
 written two libretti, directing and designing the resultant chamber opera productions in 2017 and
 2018 with West Green House Opera. The ‘utterly hilarious’ Rita earned a 5* review from Music
 OMH, and was reviewed in Classical Source as ‘a spectacle as entertaining and stimulating as
 a grand opera’. The UoA is recognized as hub for critical/creative writing through Craik’s
 involvement as one of the founding commissioning editors of Beyond Criticism, a new series of
 books which launched in 2016 with Bloomsbury with the support of a faculty Seed Award. Now
 published by the independent Boiler House Press at the University of East Anglia, the series
 seeks to imagine the new forms literary criticism might take in the twenty-first century. Other staff
 members committed to the interface between critical and creative thinking include Pohl whose
 work on eighteenth-century utopianism engages with present-day environmental activism
 through Braziers Park, an intentional community in Oxfordshire. In a related strand of activity,
 Hawes is principal adviser on a seven-part BBC TV series provisionally entitled British Creativity:
 Disruption and Renewal intended to celebrate the centenary of the BBC in 2022 and produced
 by NUTOPIA whose last BBC TV production was Civilisations.

 The annual Faculty Research Conference allows interdisciplinary thinking to prosper across and
 between schools, while externally oriented conferences encourage cross-faculty synergies. The
 Gender and Technologies cluster hosted the 2018 Conference of the British Society of Literature
 and Science which brought 112 researchers to Oxford Brookes to explore the relationship
 between literary and scientific thought. Goody’s keynote at this event seeded her monograph
 Machine Technologies which later translated, through the faculty’s cross-cutting Think Human
 festival, to a public engagement event focused on big data management entitled ‘The Day After
 Tomorrow: Artificial and Natural Futures’.

 Other important interdisciplinary conferences include Davis’ 2016 ‘The Academic Book in the
 South’, supported by the AHRC and the British Library, attended by 120 publishers, librarians,
 archivists and academics from across Africa, Asia and the Middle East; and, in 2017, ‘New
 Directions in Print Culture Studies’ which generated a special issue of Logos (2019). With the
 Centre for Creative and Cultural Research at the University of Canberra, The Poetry Centre
 (under Munro’s direction) organises an annual symposium which fosters transnational

                                                                                                    Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 approaches to creativity. Kövesi’s ‘John Clare in Space’, an international conference held in
 2014 at Oxford Brookes for 120 academics, creative writers, natural historians and artists,
 marked the 150-year anniversary of the poet’s death. Celebrated stand-up comedian Josie Long
 was commissioned to write and perform the first Clare-based stand-up comedy. Together these
 activities demonstrate the UoA’s openness to embracing the rewards of interdisciplinary
 research in its widest possible applications.


 Open research environment and research integrity

 The UoA has developed a capacious approach to making its research openly accessible,
 exceeding the requirements of REF2021. It has extended the range of publications available
 through RADAR, the university’s research repository, to include book chapters and monographs
 as well as journal articles.

 The Man Booker Prize archive (https://radar.brookes.ac.uk/radar/s/booker, launched July 2018),
 housed at Oxford Brookes library, offers an invaluable open resource for research into twentieth
 and twenty-first century fiction. The archive includes over 800 digitised records of
 correspondence, publicity materials, minutes of meetings, photographs, and copies of longlisted
 and shortlisted works since the inauguration of the prize in 1968.

 Macrae’s report ‘The use and misuse of language’, generated as part of her work for the
 Commission on the Donor Experience, is available for public consultation together with a website
 synthesising academic research on charity fundraising; while Pohl’s digital edition of Elizabeth
 Montagu’s Collected Letters Online will be freely accessible to all, with the first part of the edition
 already in the public domain. Underpinning data for all three of our ICS has been deposited on
 project websites, including E. White’s transcriptions of previously undiscovered manuscripts by
 twentieth-century avant-garde figures from Yale, UCLA, and SIU Carbondale. Other open access
 datasets include new poetry generated through Munro’s collaboration with worldwide veteran
 communities, and through Kövesi’s work with libraries in economically disenfranchised areas of
 the UK. The website for Kövesi’s project ‘The Meeting’ offers freely downloadable audio
 performances of John Clare’s poetry.

 The research integrity of the UoA is overseen by the University’s Research Ethics Committee
 whose membership brings cross-faculty researchers (staff and students) together with other
 colleagues, including members external to the University. The faculty has a dedicated Ethics
 Officer, and best practice around data protection, privacy, and the involvement of human
 participants is shared through the school’s Research and KE Committee. Those involved with
 the activities of ignitionpress work within the guidelines of the Copyright Licensing Agency,
 ensuring compliance with ethical, legal and professional frameworks. UoA researchers play
 leading roles in the subject associations through which ethical obligations and standards are
 debated. For example Ellis is an executive member of University English from where he is
 developing a national forum dedicated to decolonising curricula in English studies.


 Future strategy

 Before REF2028, we will sustain and further develop our rich research culture and impact work.
 Our main aims are as follows:

    -   To continue producing world-leading scholarship which combines traditional approaches
        with innovative practice-based research (including creative writing and performance-
        based methodologies) in keeping with the intellectual freedoms opened up at one of the
        UK’s leading new universities;
    -   To further extend our interdisciplinary and collaborative outputs, projects and scholarly
        encounters by targeting QR funding towards our five research clusters; and by refreshing
        our strategy for external grants and project bids by engaging with the university’s

                                                                                                   Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        interdisciplinary RIKE networks;
    -   To further enrich our impact work, building on a strong sense of civic purposefulness
        rooted in Oxfordshire while increasing the international reach of our research;
    -   To enhance the careers of early and mid-career researchers through the university’s
        continuing commitment to supporting research and impact as integral parts of academic
        duties, as indicated by graded workload allowances;
    -   To consolidate our flourishing community of postgraduate researchers through the
        continuation of faculty-funded PhD bursaries, and through attracting external funding.

 2. People

 Staffing and recruitment

 The university’s investment in this area has taken two forms. The first has been the recognition
 offered through promotion, enabling the retention of core REF2014 staff. The second has been
 a series of appointments at early career level. Staffing decisions have been targeted towards the
 development of the five research clusters described above. Category A staff all hold permanent
 contracts, with the exception of three colleagues in phased retirement and two Research Fellows
 (see below) who were appointed to three-year career development posts on a pathway towards
 permanent appointment.

 Three members of the UoA have achieved promotion from Senior Lecturer to Reader (Craik,
 Roe, S. White), and three from Reader to Professor (Goody, Lea, Pohl). This has consolidated
 the UoA’s areas of expertise, and has ensured professorial representation in all five clusters.

 The university has enabled four ECR appointments (Chan, Christou, Joss, O’Gorman) which
 together represent a strategic investment in succession planning. The appointment of Joss and
 Chan to permanent positions has built sustainability into the creative writing strand of the
 Memory, Conflict and Life-writing cluster, while the appointment of Vice Chancellor’s Research
 Fellows Christou and O’Gorman has strengthened contemporary and postcolonial expertise
 within two clusters (Gender and Technologies; Networks and Localities). Research Fellows have
 light teaching and administrative loads, the main purpose of their roles being to undertake
 research, publication and impact. Chan, Christou and O’Gorman have made notable
 contributions to the UoA in the form of monographs.


 Staff development and research leave

 The UoA has used devolved QR funding to support an enhanced sabbatical scheme. This is
 open to all staff in receipt of research hours, including those on fixed-term and fractional
 contracts, further demonstrating the UoA’s commitment to an inclusive environment. Since 2014,
 this funding has supported a semester away from teaching and administrative responsibilities for
 eight researchers. A further ten colleagues have won research leave, or pump-prime funding,
 through the university’s annual Research Excellence Awards. Sabbaticals are awarded as
 significant projects approach completion or require intensive periods of work, and have enabled
 the delivery of monographs (Goody, Hawes, Jackson-Houlston, Munro, E. White) as well as
 impact (Kövesi, Munro, E. White). The impact work of Kövesi, who has served as Head of
 School since 2011, has further benefited from an executive sabbatical.

 Flexible funds to support travel, conference attendance and research assistance are available to
 all colleagues, with further QR targeted towards distinct initiatives related to research clusters.
 On average we have allocated c. £10,000 annually to support these activities. This funding is
 distributed through an open call to which all staff are invited to apply every semester.
 Researchers can also access Staff Development funds, comprised of both university and school
 QR, averaging £3,000 per annum. For example Pohl received funds for intensive Danish
 language tuition to support her work on eighteenth-century European salon culture, while Macrae
 attended a course in Philanthropic Psychology at the Institute for Sustainable Philanthropy to

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 support her work on the language of charity appeals. Additional top-up funds are available from
 the faculty to assist those seeking timely support for one-off projects such as events and
 conferences.

 Researchers benefit from the Personal Development Review process through which each
 colleague is mentored by a senior member of staff. Many colleagues, including mid-career
 researchers, also take advantage of the university-wide research mentoring scheme which pairs
 researchers with more experienced colleagues in cognate disciplines. Succession planning is
 facilitated through the research clusters, each of which is led by an early or mid-career
 researcher. In this way, all staff develop a stake in the UoA’s research trajectory and long-term
 vitality.

 Research successes are celebrated informally via a regular newsletter and through the UoA’s
 Twitter feed (@BrookesEnglish). These inform the communication channels of the university’s
 marketing team, and feature on faculty and university webpages. Major publications are
 celebrated through faculty book launch events which are held internally or externally in locations
 such as the Ashmolean Museum.


 Early career researchers

 In 2014 we pledged to foster ECRs, and strong support here is indicative of the UoA’s vitality
 and sustainability. Newly appointed staff are eligible for support from the university’s ‘Your first
 three years’ training programme. In addition, the faculty runs an Early Career scheme which
 offers bespoke mentoring, and up to £2,000 each year per FTE to support teaching remission,
 conference attendance, research assistance and visits to archives. Chan and Joss have
 received this support in the current census period. Three senior colleagues (Chamberlain,
 Jackson-Houlston, Jay) are tasked with providing tailored advice focused around first steps in
 publication, and this initiative allows us to share best practice between ‘generations’ of scholars.
 The clusters provide opportunities for ECRs to take up research leadership roles which are
 recognized through the allocation of workload hours.

 The UoA’s ability successfully to integrate emerging creative writers into its research culture is
 evidenced by the appointment of Chan as a permanent member of staff after her career was
 launched through ignitionpress in 2018. Further evidence of the UoA’s commitment to
 supporting the work of ECRs is provided by the appointment of O’Gorman as an Associate
 Lecturer who then accepted a Vice Chancellor’s Research Fellowship. Other early career staff
 include postdoctoral researchers Anna Senkiw, appointed in 2019 to work with Pohl; and Hester
 Bradley, appointed in 2019 to work with Munro in the Poetry Centre.


 Exchange with business, industry and third-sector bodies

 The UoA recognizes KE activity in its annual research planning procedures and in all of its
 research funding schemes. Our strengths in creative writing provide a particularly effective
 channel for facilitating exchange with business and industry.

 Our research has stimulated valuable engagement with the UK book trade. Open access sites
 such as Goodreads confirm that both Chamberlain and Franklin have achieved a strong
 worldwide readership outside the academy. Hawes’ Shortest History of Germany proved pivotal
 in 2017-18 to the expansion by 30% of a small new publisher (Old Street Publishing, part of the
 Faber-led Independent Alliance), allowing the UoA to contribute to arts entrepreneurship beyond
 the university. According to thebookseller.com: ‘49.6% of the indie’s £251,000 in BookScan
 revenue’ derived from this title. Hawes’ book has sold over 140,000 copies in the UK and Ireland,
 has been distributed in 20 other countries, and reached #2 in the Sunday Times bestseller list.
 Hawes has also generated high-profile exchange with public and third sector stakeholders
 including the Association of European Journalists. In 2018 he participated in a ‘UK-EU Relations

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Beyond Brexit’ debate at the EU high commission in London against Gisela Stuart, chair of
 Change Britain and one of the leaders of Leave.eu; spoke on a panel in Berlin with Peter
 Altmaier, German Economics Minister; and took part in a European Council on Foreign Relations
 debate in Berlin against senior figures from 5* Movement (Italy) and Fidesz (Hungary) to an
 audience of 400. His book was declared ‘Provocation of the Year’ in 2018 by German’s biggest
 news magazine, Der Spiegel, and featured as the cover story of The New Statesman in 2017.
 Future activities will be fostered through the university’s Creative Industries RIKE network.

 Graded workload allowances, agreed through the annual PRP described above, recognize and
 reward engagement with business, industry and public or third sector bodies. QR funds have in
 this way supported Macrae’s collaboration with the Commission on the Donor Experience which
 explores, partly through cognitive linguistics, the language deployed by UK fundraisers in order
 to build positive relationships with donors. Macrae was a member of the Chartered Institute of
 Fundraising Special Interest Group on the Donor Experience in 2017 and 2018, and was a panel
 member for the ‘Commission on the Donor Experience’ workshop at the Institute’s 2016
 convention in London. She spoke at the Chartered Institute of Fundraising convention in 2017,
 and at the ‘Psychology of Communications’ CharityComms conference in London in 2017. These
 same procedures of recognition and reward have also fostered the UoA’s exchanges with
 museums and other cultural heritage organisations. For example, Roe’s ongoing collaboration
 with the National Gallery has delivered a publicly accessible film about Tennyson’s ‘The Lady of
 Shalott’ for the National Gallery. Roe has also created entries on the Rossettis to the British
 Library’s Discovering Literature website; and, at the Keats/Shelley House Museum in Rome, has
 co-curated a public exhibition on Pre-Raphaelitism.


 Research students

 PhD completions have advanced to 19 (from 6 in REF2014) thanks partly to the UoA’s success
 in bidding for five studentships through the university scheme which marked the 150 th
 anniversary of Oxford Brookes. In addition to a stipend and fee waiver, the studentships provide
 each student with £1,500 support per annum for research expenses. An additional student has
 completed a PhD in published work, while another has completed an MA by research.

 Recruitment of doctoral students is handled by the Postgraduate Research Tutor (PGRT) who
 liaises with potential supervisors before a final application is considered. A supervisory team,
 usually comprising a Director of Studies and one, or sometimes two, other supervisor(s) is
 assembled to interview the candidate. A robust system of monitoring supports all students, as
 outlined in the Institutional-level statement.

 Interdisciplinarity is at the heart of our postgraduate community, and several students have
 recently completed cross-cutting dissertations. Goody co-supervised a project on modernism
 and dance with Sarah Whately, Professor of Dance at Coventry University (‘Modernism’s Dance
 and Bodies, Britain and Germany’) while Craik co-supervised a project entitled ‘Melancholy Past,
 Melancholy Present’ with an Oxford Brookes colleague in Health Sociology. This work was
 supported by a studentship specifically designed to foster interdisciplinary research. A further
 student is currently undertaking a PhD in English and Architecture (supervised by Lea) entitled
 ‘An Anatomy of Inner-Space: Deconstructing Architectural Narrative in the Short Stories of J.G.
 Ballard’.

 The UoA fosters close links between staff and postgraduates. The faculty’s Doctoral Training
 Programme (established 2018) offers sessions on planning a research project, writing a literature
 review, the viva, getting published, careers, writing grants, and well-being. More focused training
 is offered by the PGRT who co-ordinates, each semester, two events on topics such as research
 databases, archival study, and methodologies, often with visiting external speakers. To
 encourage interdisciplinary thinking, these are hosted together with colleagues in the School of
 History, Philosophy and Culture. The faculty also hosts an annual event on diversity and
 discrimination in academia in order to foster a culture of transparency. Every semester the PGRT

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 co-ordinates a Saturday Symposium in which six PhD students gain experience of writing
 conference papers based around work-in-progress, with further training opportunities offered at
 the Faculty Research Conference. All MA and PhD students are invited to attend the UoA’s
 research seminar series which regularly hosts external speakers. Each semester, one meeting
 is devoted to showcasing the work of PhD students who present work alongside their
 supervisors.

 Through these activities our PG students are fully integrated into the UoA’s activities, encouraged
 to understand their developing skills within the widest possible contexts, and supported to build
 secure foundations for a career in academia with a realistic eye to the alternatives. All continue
 to receive bespoke advice after submission, including a mock-viva.

 Staff stay in touch with their research students after completion, and encourage them to publish
 their research. Our PhD graduates have recently generated a number of monographs in addition
 to articles and chapters. Robin Schofield (supervised by Kövesi) published his thesis as The
 Vocation of Sara Coleridge: Authorship and Religion (Palgrave, 2018) and has edited Coleridge’s
 religious writings for Anthem Press (2020). Jenny Wong’s creative writing PhD (co-supervised
 by Goody and Munro) led to the publication of her first collection Letters Home with Nine Arches
 Press and a Forward Prize commendation (both 2020). The calibre of our PhD students’ work
 has been internationally recognized. Anne Youngson (supervised by Hawes) was shortlisted for
 the 2018 Costa First Novel Award and won the inaugural Paul Torday Prize for debut fiction by
 writers over sixty, while Hester Bradley (supervised by Craik) won a Malone Society grant for
 performance-based research on John Lyly.



 Equality and diversity

 The UoA is committed to advancing equality of opportunity. Brookes has a Centre for Diversity
 and Policy Practice (UoA17), and Ellis and Chan serve on the faculty’s EDI (Equality, Diversity
 and Inclusion) committee. Of the 27 (by headcount) staff in our UoA, 26 (96%) have significant
 responsibility for research (through workload planning allocations); 94% of women and 100% of
 men. The institutional Equality Impact Assessment (EIA) showed no differences in those returned
 by any of the protected characteristics. The UoA comprises 65% women (17 of 26; 14.1 of 21.6
 FTE), and women carry out key management roles: Craik is RL, Goody is Faculty Impact Lead,
 and Pohl is PGRT and faculty ECR Mentor.

 Concern for equality and diversity is embedded in our structures including the PRP and
 sabbatical scheme. Research leave has been awarded to a female colleague returning from
 maternity leave (Kontou) and staff have benefited from a suite of policies which support work-
 life balance. Flexible working options are available through the ‘teaching constraints’ initiative
 which allows staff to organize their working week around caring responsibilities. In total, seven
 researchers have taken maternity, paternity or caring leave during the present cycle with one
 opting for an extended period of unpaid leave. As a matter of principle, research hours are never
 reduced for staff facing EDI issues. The success of these policies is evidenced by strong staff
 retention, and the fact that all colleagues have been able to maintain research profiles.

 During the process of developing the UoA’s submission, attention has been paid to EDI and to
 the Oxford Brookes Code of Practice for REF2021. Further equality assessments were
 undertaken during preparatory audits to ensure a fair spread of work between younger and more
 established researchers. The Research and KE Committee which advised on the choice of
 outputs contains an even gender balance. While women are producing, on average, a higher
 number of outputs, this average is drawn from a relatively low number of men (see above). In
 addition three male researchers hold senior management positions (Ellis as Associate Dean,
 Kövesi as Head of School, Lea as Programme Lead) which has reduced their research capacity.
 The imbalance in terms of outputs also reflects the fact that the UoA’s three ICS are led by men.



                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Early plans were therefore made to encourage nascent impact through strategic use of QR, and
 to ensure that female colleagues made a substantial contribution to two out of the three ICS.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research funding strategy and support

 The UoA has had notable success in attracting external income from funders including the
 Wellcome Trust, the British Academy, the Arts Council of England and Santander. Other factors
 point to the increasing vitality of our research grant culture. Firstly, the UoA has witnessed an
 increase in the proportion of staff securing external funding. As the UoA now contains a higher
 proportion of early and mid-career staff, grants activity has been mainstreamed to ensure
 sustainability over the longer term. A number of grants have been secured by junior or mid-career
 staff (Chan, Higgins, Macrae). Ten researchers have earned external income in this
 assessment period whereas in the previous cycle, the majority of income was generated by one
 staff member (Thomas Betteridge, left 2014). Secondly, the range of organisations from which
 funding has been secured has diversified, and we have increased our income from EU sources.
 Thirdly, grant income has been distributed across all five research clusters: Networks and
 Localities (Kövesi), Gender and Technologies (Craik), Materialities (Pohl, Higgins), Memory,
 Conflict and Life-writing (Chan), Language and Discourse (Macrae). The track record of all
 clusters in attracting external funding demonstrates their future sustainability.

 Craik’s cross-cutting arts-in-science ‘Watching’ project, supported by a c. £30,000 Arts Award
 as PI from the Wellcome Trust, generated significant impact. This work was later substantially
 enriched by benefits-in-kind, receiving £20,000 from other sources including £10,000 in-kind
 support from the Royal Botanic Gardens, Edinburgh. Two years later this project generated ‘The
 Marina Project’, co-led by Craik, which generated £10,000 of in-kind support from the Royal
 Shakespeare Company when it was adopted in 2016 as the inaugural Research and
 Development project at the company’s newly re-opened studio theatre The Other Place in
 Stratford-upon-Avon.

 All three of our ICS have attracted external funding: Munro and Potter’s work on the
 commemorative poetry of war was supported by an award of $175,000 from the Andrew W.
 Foundation to the University of Oxford with Munro as Co-I; Kövesi’s £15,000 award from the
 Arts Council allowed the development of creative writing workshops promoting access to the arts
 among under-represented groups; while E. White won a Building Bridges grant of £20,000 from
 the Library and Information Association for his work with Oxfordshire County Libraries. External
 charitable funding won by Pohl from the AHRC, the Foyle Foundation, the MHRA and a private
 funder has underpinned the development of The Elizabeth Montagu Correspondence Online.
 Pohl was awarded additional grants from the British Academy and Santander to support archival
 work on eighteenth-century national identity in Europe.

 Davis bid successfully for a British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship in 2020/21 to support her
 ongoing work on publishing in South Africa. Other staff have won smaller grants from the
 BA/Leverhulme Small Grants scheme (Macrae) and the Society for Theatre Research (Higgins);
 events funding from the Danish Arts Literary Events (Munro) and the Poetics & Linguistics
 Association (Macrae); and travel grants from the MLA (O’Gorman), the Modernist Studies
 Association (Goody), the University of Victoria Digital Humanities Summer Institute (E. White),
 the Baylor University Research Fellowship (Roe), and the Australian Research Council (Craik).
 Munro was awarded a month-long Harry Ransom Center Fellowship supported by the Fred W.
 Todd Southern Literature Endowment Fund in 2015.

 Grant applications benefit from an effective support system offered by the school, faculty and
 university. Advice is provided by the Faculty Grants Officer with the university’s Research and
 Business Development Office providing guidance on costings. All applications over £10,000 are
 reviewed by members of the Faculty Grants Panel, which includes S. White. Mentors from the
 panel with subject expertise work with the applicant, and applications are then reviewed by

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 another panel member. Tailored training opportunities are offered through a regular programme
 of events which includes visits from funders such as the Leverhulme Trust, the AHRC and the
 Wellcome Trust. Other offerings include ‘Pitch your Proposal’ meetings for scoping work,
 workshops led by colleagues who have made successful bids, and seminars for colleagues new
 to the grants process.


 Infrastructure and facilities

 Excellent facilities are in place to support research and impact. The university invested c.
 £100,000,000 in the new John Henry Brookes building which offers state-of-the-art research
 facilities including a new library. This houses the UoA’s research seminars and enables us to
 host national and international conferences (see above). All academic staff have individual
 offices, and PhD students have designated workspaces. Colleagues enjoy full access to the
 unparalleled scholarly and archival resources of the Bodleian Libraries, and participate in the
 seminars and events hosted by the University of Oxford. A recent example of locally-accessible
 material used by staff and research students include the papers of Frederic George Stephens,
 one of the seven original members of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood. These materials, held in
 the Bodleian, underpinned Robert Wilkes’ PhD (co-supervised by Roe and a colleague in
 History).

 The UoA benefits in other ways from a variety of specialist research facilities and infrastructures
 which have allowed us to develop our commitment to highly impactful research. Our particular
 strengths in textual materiality have been enriched by contact with the Oxford International
 Centre for Publishing (OICP) whose expertise in concept, design and marketing played an
 important part in the inception and development of ignitionpress. The Poetry Centre’s
 partnership with tall-lighthouse, an independent publisher renowned for identifying exciting new
 voices in poetry, also proved foundational, and the Poetry Centre receives ongoing operational
 support from the faculty Business Development Manager.

 The unique literary material housed in the library’s Special Collections has allowed the UoA to
 mount exhibitions and events related to its activities. Colleagues working in contemporary
 literature (Davis, Lea, O’Gorman) benefit from the library’s archives including the Publishing in
 Africa collection and the Man Booker Prize collection (see above). The practice-based theatre
 research of Craik, Higgins, Joss and Lowe is enriched by the facilities of a drama studio, with
 technical support provided by a studio manager; and by the UoA’s longstanding partnership with
 Pegasus Theatre, the young persons’ performing arts centre in east Oxford. E. White’s work on
 modernist avant-garde technologies has been strengthened by access to advanced AI
 equipment from Computing Services which accelerated the development of the international
 dimension of his ICS. In this way we make strategic use of in-house expertise and facilities,
 allowing us to ignite and sustain collaborations with research communities worldwide. All
 activities are underpinned by the faculty’s secure organizational infrastructure which remains
 flexible enough to accommodate the UoA’s intellectual mission.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 The UoA has an excellent record of collaboration with HEIs and other organisations, and
 researchers have developed strong networks that have led to publications. Building on her 2014
 CHOICE award (Outstanding Academic Title) for Creating Postcolonial Literature: African
 Writers and British Publishers, Davis’ collaboration with colleagues at the University of Pretoria
 gained funding from the Global Challenges Research Fund and the British Academy International
 Partnership and Mobility Fund (both as PI), and from the Newton Mobility Fund (as Co-I).
 Subsequent meetings in the UK and South Africa brought together scholars, NGOs and
 government representatives, and led to a 2018 special issue, edited by Davis, for the Journal of
 Southern African Studies. This same partnership has recently won funding from the British

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Academy, the Newton Fund and the GCRF. All of these activities have benefited from the support
 of the Networks and Localities cluster, including targeted QR funding.

 A key collaborative strength is the UoA’s work on scholarly editions. Pohl is Editor-in-Chief of
 The Elizabeth Montagu Correspondence Online, tasked with digitising Montagu’s letters held at
 the Huntington Library and other UK/US archives. Her team includes colleagues at Swansea
 University, and the project has generated a three-year postdoctoral position in the UoA. Jay
 serves as one of two general editors of the twenty-five volume Selected Works of Margaret
 Oliphant (Pickering and Chatto) in partnership with Joanne Shattock (University of Leicester).
 Craik’s archive of 479 sources connected to the performance of Ben Jonson’s masques and
 entertainments, co-edited with Karen Britland, was published in 2014 in The Cambridge Works
 of Ben Jonson Online, a project involving an international network of 33 editors. Lowe is a
 contributing editor to OUP’s Collected Works of John Ford; and her edition of the 1541-46 Revels
 Office accounts, co-edited with Martin Wiggins (Shakespeare Institute, University of
 Birmingham), was published by the Malone Society, the world’s foremost organisation for textual
 editing. Other editorial projects are ongoing. Roe has recently accepted general editorship of the
 Longman edition of the works of Christina Rossetti and is building an international team. Kontou
 is editing for Routledge a volume of historical and literary sources, Victorian Material Culture,
 and has begun a three-year collaborative project entitled ‘Representations of modern Greece in
 Victorian popular culture’ with Prof. Efterpi Mitsi from the University of Athens, funded by the
 Hellenic Foundation for Research and Innovation. All of these activities are underpinned by the
 Materialities cluster where expertise in editorial practice is celebrated and shared.

 Other notable collaborative successes include Jay’s development of a four-volume series with
 Bloomsbury entitled The Bible and Literature with an international team of contributors; and her
 participation in 2014 in a research seminar at Renmin University, Beijing, which led to the
 publication of a book chapter in both English and Chinese. Craik edited a collection of 23 essays,
 Shakespeare and Emotion (CUP, 2020), bringing together contributors from the UK, Europe, US,
 Australia and New Zealand. S. White’s work with Owen Davis (University of Herts), funded by a
 British Academy Small Research Grant, has produced two journal articles; while Lowe’s
 collaboration with Natasha Korda (Wesleyan University), supported by a Visiting Scholars grant
 which enabled Korda to visit Oxford Brookes, led to the publication of a co-authored book
 chapter. Roe’s collaboration with the Watts Gallery (Surrey) has generated a book chapter for
 Christina Rossetti: Poetry in Art (Yale University Press) which was longlisted for the Historians
 of British Art Book Prize. Roe was a consultant for the ‘Christina Rossetti: Vision and Verse’
 exhibition at the same gallery. Macrae’s collaboration with Alison Gibbons (Sheffield Hallam
 University) has delivered a co-edited book Pronouns in Literature: Positions and Perspectives in
 Language (Palgrave, 2018). The unit has also fostered the collaborative work of ECR O’Gorman
 by supporting his attendance at the 2018 meeting of the Modern Languages Association in New
 York which made possible his contribution to a US-based collection of essays.


 Contributions to society

 Researchers engage with audiences beyond the academy as detailed above (Sections 1 and 2).
 As a regular reviewer for the Guardian commissioned to write the Poetry Round-up for 2019,
 Chan has shaped public conversations about BAME poetry in the UK and beyond. Pohl has
 twice appeared on BBC Radio 4’s ‘In Our Time’ speaking about Frances Burney (2014) and the
 Bluestockings (2015), and was interviewed on German public broadcasting station WDR. Hawes
 has made many appearances on BBC radio and on prime-time TV news programmes in
 Denmark and Germany, shaping public opinion on Anglo-German relations; while Craik has
 appeared on BBC Radio 3 (‘Free Thinking’) and Radio Scotland to discuss her work on the
 history of sleep. Lowe’s 2015 project on the forgotten early modern play The Queen was profiled
 on ‘Newsnight’ for BBC1; while Chamberlain has discussed her work on BBC Radio 4
 (‘Midweek’) and, as Virago’s first author, on television in a BBC2 documentary entitled ‘Virago:
 Changing the world one page at a time’ (2016) and on BBC4’s ‘The Reunion’ with Kirsty Wark
 (2020). Other notable activities include Roe’s 2019 television appearance on BBC4’s ‘Lucy

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Worsley’s Christmas Carol Odyssey’, filmed at Highgate Cemetery, the location of the
 Rossetti family grave.

 Colleagues have presented at the Oxford Literary Festival (Kövesi, Franklin), Stanza (Munro),
 the Cheltenham Literature Festival (Chan), and the Brighton Fringe Festival (Pohl). Hawes has
 presented at the Hay Festival in the largest venue seating 600 people, and at the Edinburgh
 Festival, and has written features for The Spectator, The Guardian and The New Statesman.
 Jay has lectured to non-academic audiences through the George MacDonald Society and the
 William Hail White Society. Franklin has worked with the Arts Council England-funded social
 interest group ‘Reading the Forest’ dedicated to increasing literacy within the economically
 deprived Forest of Dean; and runs the monthly ‘Short Stories Aloud’ event at Blackwell’s flagship
 Oxford shop, celebrated by the Huffington Post as ‘unlike any other literary event’. Ellis gave the
 2019 Oxford Brookes Black History Month open lecture on Windrush literature; and convened
 an ‘Intersectional Oxford’ public event featuring writer and journalist Shaista Aziz. Craik writes
 regularly for The Times Literary Supplement and has contributed to their podcast. She has
 offered pre-performance lectures at Shakespeare’s Globe, while Chamberlain has lectured at
 the Court Theatre (Chicago) and Higgins has contributed lectures to the Oxford Playhouse
 Spotlight Group. Together these activities demonstrate the unit’s sustained commitment to
 maximising the reach of our research and impact among diverse public audiences.

 The faculty’s Think Human festivals (2018, 2020) have a specific remit to enhance the impact of
 high-quality research, and to widen its dissemination for the benefit of local, national and global
 communities. At the first Festival in 2018, over 2,000 visitors attended 30 events organised by
 staff. These diverse audiences were made up of students, alumni, staff, school children and
 members of the local community. Interaction with the public included 2,500 web visits, 1,500
 branded searches, and 100,000 video views. For the 2020 Festival, staff organized events on
 Iris Murdoch and art; on John Clare’s poetry; on transnational literature and migrancy; on literary
 utopianism; on poetry and augmented reality; on the life-writing of war; on verse-writing and
 authority; on literature and intersectional identity; on poetry and constitutional law; and on
 children’s books. The Festival allowed UoA researchers to engage powerfully with communities
 under-represented in the arts. For example, O’Gorman’s monograph Fictions of the War on
 Terror: Difference and the Transnational 9/11 Novel translated into two events aimed especially
 towards Oxford’s Muslim communities: ‘Fault Lines: Literature and Islamophobia’, a discussion
 hosted in collaboration with British-Sudanese novelist Leila Abouleila; and ‘The Everyday
 Architectures of Gaza’, an exhibition co-created with Salem al-Qudwa, an architect in Gaza’s
 Palestinian Territories.


 Contributions to the research community

 Researchers make a strong contribution through editing academic journals and book series. The
 UoA is home to Utopian Studies (Penn State University Press), edited by Pohl, and The John
 Clare Society Journal, edited by Kövesi with Jackson-Houlston on the Advisory Board. Jay is
 on the advisory boards of the journals Literature & Theology and English (both OUP), and serves
 on the British Association of Victorian Studies executive committee. Lischinsky is one of four
 editors of the international Journal of Corpora & Discourse Studies, reviews editor of Discourse
 & Society, and serves on the editorial boards of Discurso & Sociedad, Critical Discourse Studies,
 International Journal of Marketing Semiotics and Asparkia. Chan co-edits Oxford Poetry, has
 been a guest co-editor at The Poetry Review, and has served as pamphlet choice selector for
 the Poetry Book Society. O’Gorman is an associate editor at the Journal of Postcolonial Writing,
 while Pohl serves on the editorial board of Palgrave Studies in Utopianism. Roe has edited a
 special issue of Victoriographies focused on the poetry of Dante Gabriel Rossetti.

 Further contributions are made through our leadership roles in academic organisations. Chan is
 an advisory board member of the Poetry Translation Centre, and a jury member of the Folio Prize
 Academy; Davis is Associate Editor for the Cambridge Elements series in Colonial and
 Postcolonial Publishing (CUP); Franklin is a judge for the Costa Short Story Award; Pohl serves

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on the Steering Committee for the Society for Utopian Studies; Goody is a member of the
 Executive Committee for the British Association for Modernist Studies; Lowe and Craik serve
 as Council member and Executive Secretary respectively of the Malone Society; and Lischinsky
 is a committee member for the Association for Discourse Studies in Society, and is a member of
 a special interest group on Health and Science communication for the British Association of
 Applied Linguistics.

 Researchers participate as advisors and assessors for national and international grant-awarding
 bodies. Craik, Davis, Goody, Kövesi and Pohl are members of the AHRC Peer Review
 College. Pohl is a member of the joint AHRC and Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft Review
 College, and an expert for Horizon 2020; and Jay is a member of the European Science
 Foundation College of Expert Reviewers. Staff review applications for a wide range of funding
 bodies including Canada’s Council for the Arts, the Carnegie Trust, the Czech Science
 Foundation, the Estonian Research Council, the Irish Research Council for the Humanities and
 Social Sciences, the Leverhulme Trust, the Medical Research Council, the National Research
 Foundation in South Africa, the Netherlands Institute for Advanced Study, the Netherlands
 Organization for Scientific Research, Research Foundation Flanders, and the Social Sciences
 and Humanities Research Council of Canada. Jay is on the grants subcommittee of the British
 Association of Victorian Studies, while Pohl is a judge for the annual Jamie Bishop Memorial
 Award for the International Association for the Fantastic.

 Recognition of the expertise within the UoA is evidenced in a variety of ways. Having been
 selected in 2017 as a Ledbury Poetry Critic, a programme which mentors a new generation of
 BAME critics to create a more diverse landscape in poetry, Chan was selected in 2019 by the
 Scottish Poet Laureate, Jackie Kay, as one of her 10 Best BAME writers in Britain. Chan is also
 the winner of the Eric Gregory Award and the Geoffrey Dearmer Prize; and was shortlisted for
 the Dylan Thomas Prize and for The Forward Prize for Best Single Poem (2017, 2019), becoming
 the youngest shortlistee in the prize’s history. The expertise of researchers is also evident in the
 range of keynotes and lectures delivered since 2014. Researchers have given invited
 presentations at University of Leiden (Chamberlain); University College Dublin (Chan); the
 International Shakespeare Conference (Craik); CUNY Graduate Center (Craik); the
 Renaissance Society of America (Craik); the University of Cape Town (Davis); ‘Sex after ’68’
 conference in Paris (Goody); Monocle Quality-of-life Conference in Berlin (Hawes); the
 University of Evora, Portugal (Jay); the University of Exeter (Macrae); the NorLit Conference in
 Turku, Finland (Pohl). Roe offered the keynote lecture at the AHRC-funded ‘Reading the Pre-
 Raphaelites’ conference; was an invited speaker at the University of Catania, Sicily; and gave a
 public lecture at the Keats/Shelley House in Rome. O’Gorman has been an invited speaker in
 Zurich, Frankfurt, Toronto and Amsterdam.

 With the future sustainability of our discipline in mind, Kövesi co-organized (with Robert
 Eaglestone, Royal Holloway) a series of debates about the future of the subject, featuring
 national and international experts: ‘Delivering English’ at the 2017 ‘English: Shared Futures’
 conference in Newcastle, in which O’Gorman also organised a panel; and ‘English Literature
 and its Publics in an International Context’ at the 2016 Modern Language Association in Texas.

 Staff have reviewed manuscripts for publishers including Bloomsbury, Broadview, Cambridge
 UP, Continuum, Cornell UP, Edinburgh UP, LIT, Manchester UP, Ohio UP, Ohio State UP,
 Oxford UP, Palgrave, Routledge, Rowman & Littlefield, Twenty-first Century, University of
 Pennsylvania Press, University of Virginia Press and Yale UP.
 Staff serve as peer reviewers for a large number of journals including African Studies, Applied
 Linguistics, British Journal of Middle Eastern Studies, Contemporary Women’s Writing, Critical
 Discourse Studies, Criticism, Discourse & Communication, Early Theatre, Eighteenth-Century
 Fiction, International Journal of Corpus Linguistics, Journal of American Studies, Journal of the
 History of Sexuality, Journal of Language and Politics, Journalism Studies, Literature Compass,
 Literature and History, Literature and Medicine, LOGOS, Modernist Feminist Studies, Modern
 Languages Review, Modernist Cultures, Nordic Journal of English Studies, Open Library of


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Humanities, Philological Quarterly, Pragmatics & Society, PMLA, Renaissance and
 Reformation/Renaissance et Réforme, Renaissance Quarterly, Romanticism, Research in
 African Literatures, Scottish Literary Review, Shakespeare Quarterly, Shakespeare Studies,
 Studies in Romanticism, Tulsa Studies in Women’s Literature, Victorian Review.




                                                                                     Page 15
