Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Bristol

 Unit of Assessment: 20: Social Work and Social Policy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Overview
The School for Policy Studies hosts a multidisciplinary community of scholars who seek to impact
policy and practice by undertaking excellent research across a range of social policy domains.
Academic disciplines include social and public policy, social work, childhood studies, disability
studies, criminology, and social gerontology. Our focus is both on the determinants of social
problems and the responses to them from governments, policy makers and practitioners. Our work
benefits from strength in a wide range of both quantitative and qualitative methods, and we use
these approaches to design and evaluate interventions in social policy and social work. Our
multidisciplinary orientation is distinctive and brings defining expertise in understanding the
intersections of theory, policy, and practice.

Research and impact activity are focused around six research centres (Children and Families,
Gender and Violence, Health and Social Care, Norah Fry Centre for Disability Studies, Poverty and
Social Justice, and Urban and Public Policy) to which all staff belong. The centres address social
challenges ranging from the local to the global and provide a home for intellectual synergy and
support. Research Centre Heads are members of the School’s Research and Impact Committee,
which is chaired by the Research Director and includes the Directors for Impact, International
Research and Research Ethics. This ensures coherence and alignment between the work of the
Centres and the School’s research and impact strategy.

The Research Director is a member of the School’s Senior Management Team, which is
responsible for the allocation of resources, including staffing. A Research Manager, Research
Communications Officer (both new posts since REF2014) and four Research Administrators
support research. Research projects are governed by the University’s Research Governance
Procedures (see the Institutional Environment Statement, REF5a). All proposals are reviewed by
the School Ethics Committee and, where necessary, escalated to the Faculty equivalent. A number
of staff publish on ethical issues in conducting sensitive research; and as Chair of the Faculty
Ethics Committee, Williamson plays a key role in promoting ethical practice across the social
sciences at Bristol. All research staff and research students undergo mandatory training in
research integrity, data safety and ethics.

1.2 Research aims, objectives, achievements and new directions since REF2014
Since REF2014 our research aims have been to advance theory, generate innovative, high quality,
internationally relevant research within a sustainable and collegial research culture, and influence
policy and practice. Our strategic research objectives during this assessment period were to:
    • Extend the focus and range of our research whilst maintaining current strengths.
    • Leverage the interdisciplinarity of our research to better address the social challenges
       we face and integrate social sciences within other fields.
    • Extend our global reach ensuring our research responds to global challenges and
       achieves impact of international reach and significance.




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Extending the focus and range of our research
Since REF2014 we have increased the number of active researchers by nearly a third (see section
2). Alongside a strategic approach to appointments, this has enabled us to maintain critical mass in
core areas and develop new and innovative research in all our research centres. The examples
used here are primarily organised by centre and illustrate the interdisciplinary collaborations of
colleagues across the School (new staff appointed during REF period are italicised below).
    • The Centre for Children and Families has continued to advance its long-standing
        research on children in public care, e.g. through further investigation of educational
        outcomes in looked after children (Berridge, Nuffield £473K), and on kinship and mental
        health in looked after children (Wijedasa, ESRC, £136K). New research focusing on child
        welfare in Sub-Saharan Africa, investigates how neglect is conceptualised in local contexts
        (Sharley/Ottaway, Twum-Danso Imoh). Both Wijedasa and Roy bring new quantitative
        expertise including in data linkage and Symonds and Dermott bring a new focus on
        fatherhood, e.g. extending the use of conversation analysis to increase engagement of
        fathers in social care (NIHR, £20K). Watson has received further AHRC funding to develop
        the creative use of digital tools to represent the life story of vulnerable children, ‘TROVE’
        (£160K). Staines has extended her work on youth justice to investigate discharge of care
        orders (Nuffield, £276K). Dermott links with other School centres to further develop
        research on families, gender and poverty, as part of the ESRC Research Centre for Micro-
        Social Change co-led by Bristol (£6.2M, 2019-2024).
    • The Norah Fry Centre has extended its research on social care and disability and
        strengthened its influence on policy and practice. Building on the success of the
        Confidential Inquiry into the deaths of people with learning disabilities and development of
        new complex case review methods, Heslop led the 5-year National Learning Disability
        Mortality Review (LeDeR, Healthcare Quality Commission, £3.9M). Other significant
        projects are focused on research-led social change including Williams tackling multiple
        areas of disability practices (ESRC, £1.1M) and Tarleton’s leadership of research and
        support network for parents of children with learning disabilities (Esmee Fairburn, £484K).
        Abbott’s continued leadership of the 2nd and 3rd phase of the NIHR School for Social Care
        Research (SSCR, ~£5M) at Bristol (2014-2024) is an example of collaboration across
        centres and disciplines. This has been to the benefit of ECRs, e.g. Webb has been
        supported to extend his Vice Chancellor’s fellowship (see REF5a) with an ECR award
        (NIHR, £28K) working on innovative co-produced projects focused on dementia.
    • The Gender and Violence Research Centre has expanded research on male victims and
        perpetrators including development and evaluation of interventions with perpetrators with
        the support of SafeLives (Hester, Williamson), developed wider concepts of justice
        (Aghtaie, Hester, Mulvihill, Williamson, ESRC, £730K), and mapped prostitution and sex
        work (Mulvihill, Hester, Home Office, £139K). The international focus of research has
        been further extended with Sardinha working with the World Health Organisation on cross-
        national attitudes to intimate partner violence (ESRC, £433K) and responses to gender-
        based violence in the context of migration (Aghtaie, Begikhani, Canning, Williamson,
        GCRF £239K, British Academy, £24K).
    • The appointment of Aboderin, in the Centre for Health and Social Care, has extended
        the Centre’s gerontology research to international and comparative research in Africa.
        West has joined the other centre fellows (Cameron, Macdonald, Willis), in the third phase
        of the NIHR School for Social Care Research, bringing further theoretical expertise and a
        focus which complements Willis’s recent research promoting social inclusion and equality
        in care home environments (ESRC, £603K). Macdonald provides continuation of expertise

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
         in experimental design and systematic reviews, and adds capacity in relation to the
         development and evaluation of complex social interventions, e.g. a feasibility study of an
         intervention designed to improve outcomes for care leavers by improving the skills of their
         personal advisors (NIHR, £687K).
    • The Centre for Poverty and Social Justice has substantially enhanced its research
         capacity and output on social harm (zemiology), and social justice (Large, Carver, Kirwan,
         Harkness, Large, Klantschnig, Miller), to align and extend existing research on social
         justice of counterfeiting (Large), indebtedness (Kirwan), corporate and state power (Miller)
         and female genital mutilation among Somali communities (Carver, Pantazis). New
         international comparative research includes Harkness’s examination of dynamics of
         inequality across the life course in European countries (NORFACE €1.4M), and the
         criminalisation of the drug trade in Nigeria and Niger (Klantschnig, ESRC, £216K &
         £519K). Singleton is coordinating 16 international partners in the Worldwide Universities
         Network, to address global migration policy, including hidden dimensions of migration, and
         Gordon, Fahmy, Eroglu and Zhang continue to the extend the international reach of their
         research on multi-dimensional poverty measurement (e.g. UNICEF $179K).
    • Urban and Public Policy is addressing pressing new questions in the urban environment
         including the use of digital technologies and smart cities (Marsh) and governance
         (Sweeting/Ayres). The Centre has extended its international research including
         comparative work in Nigeria (Peiffer), Spain (Berglund), Mexico (Marsh), China/USA
         (Wang) and Japan (Izuhara/Kennett). Ayres is also leading a major work package on the
         inter-disciplinary project to tackle the root causes upstream of unhealthy urban decision
         making (£6.7M, MRC, 2019-2024).
Extending as well as strengthening the focus of our research also fits with our overarching aim to
lead in effecting social change and demonstrate exemplary approaches to user engagement and
co-production (see section 4). Specific objectives to support this aim and accelerate impact during
the REF assessment period, include embedding impact at all stages of research grants (e.g.
collaboration with non-academic partners on bid development, co-writing, stakeholder involvement
at all stages of the research project including dissemination). This has been exemplified in our
impact case studies, e.g. Heslop (ICS: Evidence of premature deaths in people with learning
disabilities informs major reform of health policy and practice in England), where
stakeholders were involved throughout the research process and dissemination is promoted via
multiple accessible channels, e.g. YouTube and in collaboration with the Misfits Theatre group
comprised of learning-disabled actors. Maintaining strong local links and continuity of user
engagement and impact, is consistent with the University’s commitment to the principles of a civic
university (see REF5a). We collaborate with local councils and organisations as well as embed our
research directly in local governance. e.g. Sweeting’s research on mayoral governance.

Leveraging the interdisciplinarity of our research
Cross collaboration between centres, leadership in UoB interdisciplinary research institutes and
collaboration with external academic and non-academic partners (see section 4), underpins our
interdisciplinary work. Our commitment to interdisciplinary working ensures that our research is
particularly well-placed to better address social challenges which often need the lens of more than
one discipline, including social harm and social justice, care and welfare across the lifespan, and
governance and policy processes.

Increasingly, members of the School collaborate with colleagues across the Faculty and wider
University. For example, West, alongside colleagues in Medicine, Population Health, Economics,

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
and Arts has created virtual compassionate communities for the bereaved in the context of a global
pandemic; Lucas has worked with colleagues in the Dental School, consultants in public health,
Bristol City Council, and community groups to deliver an integrated network for reducing
inequalities in early years health and wellbeing; and with engineers and virtual reality developers,
Watson has developed an immersive dance technology programme for young people at risk of
criminal exploitation. We also have leadership roles in large inter-disciplinary research projects with
multiple academic and non-academic partners (see section 4) to investigate major societal
challenges, including unhealthy urban environments (Ayres, MRC, £6.7M), housing policy and
practice (Marsh, ESRC/AHRC/JRF, £7M) and labour markets and family change (Dermott,
Harkness, ESRC, £6.2M).

Our ability to embrace interdisciplinary working is facilitated by our expertise across research
methods, including longitudinal studies, experimental designs, observational and qualitative
studies, and the secondary analyse of data and systematic reviews. Examples include: using
randomised controlled trials (RCTs) to assess the effectiveness of complex social interventions,
such as the DfE-funded evaluation of a structured approach to assessment in child protection
(Macdonald, DfE, £343K); Carpenter and Patsios’s trial of therapeutic intervention for child
sexual abuse (NSPCC, £275K) and the innovative RCT to evaluate ‘Drive’ – an intervention with
high harm perpetrators of domestic abuse (Hester, SafeLives, £245K). Berridge’s work integrated
secondary analysis of national data and in-depth qualitative work (with the Rees Centre at Oxford)
and impacted on policy changes to better monitor the educational outcomes for looked after
children (Nuffield, £314K). Further inter-disciplinary research in collaboration with the Bristol
Medical School data linkage team, DfE and the NHS, successfully linked national records of
children in care with their mental health records for the first time to monitor mental health outcomes
(Wijedasa, ESRC, £136K). Systematic reviews increasingly form part of inter-disciplinary bids and
expertise in the School, including Macdonald (lead for Cochrane Developmental, Psychosocial
and Learning Problems Group, Public Health Agency Belfast, £763K).

Our methodological expertise has enabled us to take significant management and leadership roles
and champion social science within new University-wide cross-disciplinary strategic research
initiatives (see REF5a). For example, Gordon is Director of the Bristol Poverty Institute; Cameron
is co-lead for the Bio-ethics, Biolaw and Biosociety research strand within the Elizabeth Blackwell
Institute for Health Research; Dermott leads on major bids for families for the Bristol Digital
Futures Institute (BDFI) and Watson is on the Steering Committee for the Brigstow Institute. Since
REF2014, our involvement in cross-UoB interdisciplinary Mental Health and Social Care Research
networks has resulted in success in a number of large-scale awards, including the NIHR School for
Social Care Research. These structures provide a platform for sustainability and innovation in
cross and inter-disciplinary research, as well as an outstanding environment for postgraduate and
early career researchers.

Extending our global reach
We now have research links to 60 countries across all continents (Elsevier fingerprint 2020 and
https://research-information.bris.ac.uk/en/organisations/school-for-policy-studies/network-map/).
Our global reputation amongst academics and employers is reflected in our significantly improved
QS ranking to a consistent top 20 position in recent years (16th in 2018). This has been achieved
by building strong international relationships, use of International Strategic development pump
priming funding provided by UoB and significant success at winning external funding from multiple
agencies. For example, our international reputation for work on the multidimensional measurement

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
of poverty has extended its global reach and significance (Eroglu, Fahmy, Gordon, Patsios,
Zhang). As well as widespread adoption in Europe as the EU’s first ever measure of child
deprivation these measures were approved by 40 EU legislatures (UN Economic Commission for
Europe, 2019). Internationally, new data has been generated in collaboration with Nation states for
Africa (e.g. ESRC GCRF, £200K), Oceania and South America (GCRF, £34K), often with the
support of international organisations such as UNICEF and the UN (e.g. UNICEF Uganda, $179K).
Alongside ESRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA) support this research underpins the
international reach of the impact case study (ICS: Multidimensional measures of poverty and
deprivation have informed policy makers and policy initiatives globally).

East Asia continues to be a major focus of our social policy research and international
collaboration. For example, Kennett is working with colleagues at Hong Kong Polytechnic
University, on gender equality, the labour market, and everyday lives in China, Hong Kong, South
Korea and Taiwan; Izuhara is collaborating with Kobe University on the role that housing plays in
economic and social processes in a post-growth society in Japan; and Wang works with
academics from South China University of Technology in China on measures of urban segregation
in China Partnering with international colleagues on successful grants has also underpinned new
research on issues of global significance with local specificity in South America. For example,
Marsh is leading the first ever ESRC-CONACYT collaboration to understand citizen oriented smart
city innovation in Mexico (ESRC, 364K) and Gumy is exploring over indebtedness across Latin
America (Inter-American Development Bank, £14K).

Since 2014, we have significantly expanded our research focused on Africa. With a £1M
philanthropic donation, the interdisciplinary Perivoli Africa Research Centre (see REF5a), was
launched in February 2020 with the appointment of Aboderin as Chair in Africa Research and
Partnerships and PARC Director. The Centre’s mission is to develop and expand interdisciplinary
research in partnership with universities, international agencies, charities, governments and
organisations across Africa. The location of Aboderin within the School reflects emerging
international research from new colleagues further enhancing our profile. For example,
Klantschnig has ESRC funding for two research studies in Africa, one focused on transnational
and organised crime in West Africa (ESRC, £519K), and one on Cannabis and Development in
Nigeria, Kenya and South Africa (ESRC, £216K). Peiffer is researching governance and corruption
in developing countries, with a focus on Uganda (Department for International Development,
£48K); Sharley (ECR) is undertaking post-doctoral research on child neglect in Namibia with
support of Global Challenges Pump Priming Fund (£5K) and is now working with Aboderin and
PARC to extend her focus to other sub-Saharan countries. Twum Danso-Imoh has brought further
theoretical strength in relation to understanding global childhoods and welfare in Ghana and
Nigeria (British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship, £118K, Social Sciences and Humanities
Research Council of Canada, £214K).

Open research
We have increased open access for all research outputs (now >90%) and improved data protection
and management practices, in line with UoB Open Research initiatives (see REF5a). A successful
example of open data policy is the ESRC-funded Poverty and Social Exclusion Survey, which
developed software to facilitate the easy interactive exploration of UK poverty data on the web. The
website has received over 2.5m page views from over 190 countries/web domains and has been
used extensively by UK universities and schools as well as by UK exam boards to set A-Level
questions. A significantly revised and updated University research repository means that research

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
projects and datasets have structured keywords applied, ensuring that relevant information
surfaces in academic profiles and web searches.

1.3 Future Strategy
Our strategic goals for the next five years are to:
   •   increase our international research activity;
   •   extend our inter-disciplinary research;
   •   further support the development of PGR and early career scholars;
   •   influence policy and practice to make a difference to people’s lives.

Increasing our international activity
Future activity will further strengthen the partnerships we are developing with low/middle income
countries and academic institutions, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa both to undertake research
and support student and staff exchange. The Perivoli Africa Research Centre (PARC) led by
Aboderin will be central to achieving this; acting as a catalyst and forum for interdisciplinary
inquiry, practice and mutual learning, predicated on mutual respect and inclusion to accomplish
Africa’s priority agendas. Similarly, the new Transforming Social Inequalities through Inclusive
Climate Action (TSITICA, Global Challenges Research Fund, £2.1M) programme (for which
Gordon is the lead for poverty research) will address key issues at the nexus of climate change,
sustainable livelihoods, poverty and inequality. Ultimately, TSITICA’s aim is to create a better
understanding of how to improve livelihoods and equitable benefits from climate interventions for
the most vulnerable and poor, contributing to the UN’s climate goals of the Paris Agreement and
the ambition of the Agenda 2030 of leaving no one behind.

Extending our inter-disciplinary research
We will continue to provide social science leadership in addressing cross-disciplinary research
questions that have international importance and local and civic relevance, and extend this into
new areas of research, addressing major social problems such as social care and migration that
demand integrated cross-disciplinary and collaborative working with non-academic partners. For
example, we will extend our focus on the social impacts of digital technologies particularly in the
arena of social care, bringing gerontology and anthropological perspectives to examine challenge
and opportunities for technologies to support older adults, families, communities and the care
workforce.

Using internal and external networks we aim to secure further large-scale research grants, to
support the development of collaborations with non-academic partners: the funded £1M Effective
Digital Entrepreneurship & Business Support (EDEBS) project (EU, Singleton) involves a social
enterprise organisation, ACH, and the West of England Combined Authority (WECA) alongside
academic partners support economic entrepreneurship among marginalised migrants from non-EU
countries. The BDFI, initially funded by £29M from Research England, £55M from industry and
£16M from philanthropy (see REF5a) and involving Dermott and Watson in relation to families
research, will integrate social sciences and engineering in order to address how a sociotechnical
world can be useful, safe and secure bringing together academic, industry and government.
Macdonald is leading an interdisciplinary team to build capacity and promote use of research in
adult social care that involves three local authorities, two service providers, colleagues in the South
West Applied Research Collaboration and the local Clinical Commissioning Group (NIHR, £1.7M).



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Developing early career scholars
We plan to build capacity in the UoA in a number of ways. We will extend opportunities for PGR
students through an enhanced School-based Graduate Teaching Assistant scheme and the
development of innovative arrangements for international co-supervision (based on the success of
the Cotutelle arrangements with University of Cape Town that provide genuine co-supervision
across our two institutions) such as an exchange programme with Lingnan, HK that will maintain
and enhance our research relationships in East Asia. We will extend involvement in high-level
training programmes for early career academics (drawing on the experience of running a WUN
training seminar on migration, and hosting international training on poverty measurement with
partners from Ghana and Uganda); and involvement in large-scale capacity and infrastructure
grants with opportunities for PGR and early career postdoctoral awards (e.g. NIHR SSCR and
ESRC Centre).

Influencing policy and practice to make a difference to people’s lives
We will continue to develop new routes for policy and community impact and transformative
change. Specifically, we will focus on further developing the scope of public engagement activities,
which will further locate the unit’s social policy and social work at the centre of contemporary
political and popular debates. Building on specific successes at local level in collaboration with key
politicians (Bristol Mayor and local MPs), high profile events organised under the auspices of the
Policy and Politics journal, and circumstances afforded by the Covid-19 crisis to highlight the
centrality of social science perspectives, we will further harness our research expertise to increase
the profile of social policy and social work disciplines as well as our own research findings and use
new and existing Covid-19 related grants (see sections 3 and 4) to view, where relevant, our
research going forward with a Covid-19 informed lens.

It is critical that our research and impact objectives in the next five years are met while maintaining
a collegiate and supportive research environment, and specifically that we continue to address
issues of social inequality as part of our own practice. Building on our Athena SWAN Bronze
award, we will take forward the agreed action plan and apply for the Silver award within a three-
year time frame. Engaging with the findings of the recent Social Policy Association report ‘The
Missing Dimension’ and the framework of the Race Equality Charter, we will examine the ‘ethnic
penalty’ with respect to Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) staff and doctoral student staff
ratios and develop a set of coordinated actions to improve diversity.



 2. People

2.1 Staffing Strategy
The UoA has expanded by 31% since 2014 (from 35.9 FTE to 47.1 FTE) and recruited 23 new
staff – 15 core-funded posts, five competitive fellowships and three ESRC future leaders – during
this period. This growth reflects our continued success in attracting resource to serve our ongoing
commitment to permanent research and teaching posts. Our appointment strategy ensures
sustainable growth, strong mentorship for ECRs, and senior leadership in key research areas.

Staff turnover remains low (seven staff moving to other institutions since 2014) and an additional
seven retirements. Vacancies are reviewed in light of our strategic priorities, enabling us to re-
shape to provide strength and depth, and enhance research potential. We have been successful in
attracting excellent candidates to replace valued expertise (six Lecturers, five SL, four Professors,

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
five Fellows, three ESRC Future Leaders). Successful succession planning in relation to
retirements, appointments and promotions, has maintained a balanced profile of staff across all
grades: (Lecturer: Senior Lecturer/Reader: Professor) in 2021 [24%:53%:23%] compared to 2014
[21%:53%:26%]. We have also maintained a consistent gender profile across this period (71:29%
female:male). Consistent with our strategic aim for further internationalisation and our future
deepening of our focus on Africa to specifically address questions around social care and
governance, we have made the appointments of Aboderin, Klantschnig, Peiffer, Sharley, and
Twum-Danso Imoh. In line with the expansion of our research around social harm, including
expanding our focus to the role of states, Canning, Carver, Klantschnig, Kirwan Large, and
Miller were all appointed during this assessment period.

We have continued to support a vibrant research culture and over the review period have attracted
a substantial number of high-calibre research associates employed on funded projects. Through
effective mentoring and enhanced opportunities for teaching, we are particularly pleased that
internal staff on research-only contracts have been able to successfully compete for permanent
lecturing posts in this cycle (Roy, Symonds, Wijedasa). All research staff are fully embedded in
school structures and attend Centre and School meetings, provide input into the School’s research
strategy and actively contribute to the research culture. The School complies with the University’s
policy on fair and effective recruitment, which emphasises protection from discrimination
throughout the recruitment process, including that job specifications, shortlisting and interview
processes should be gender balanced (see REF5a). To test the recruitment process in the School
we have carried out additional unconscious bias training with lead recruiters and interviewers in the
School. In 2017, the School restructured its line management so that a smaller number of new
Senior Line Managers, who are members of the Senior Management Team, provide consistency of
support to staff.

2.2 Staff development
Staff development is critical to sustaining the vitality of the School in a rapidly changing and often
challenging research landscape. Our approach is to support all staff members’ professional
development via multiple routes both within the School and via opportunities in the wider University
and academy. This support comprises both formal structures such as the Annual Staff Review and
Development (SRD) process and, equally important, informal structures to preserve collegiality and
lines of communication. This includes simple informal day-to-day practices - such as well attended
daily coffee meetings open to all (including PGRs; continued online in 2020), weekly in-house
yoga, and a diversity choir that meets regularly - to more structured mentoring and career
development pathways to support the aspirations and wellbeing of staff. Support for staff wellbeing
has been enhanced by wider provision across the University during this cycle, such as staff
wellbeing drop-ins, increased counselling and online resources, and the creation of School-based
Mental Health Champions. Centres have been an important source of support during Covid-19 by
providing a range of activities including WhatsApp groups, virtual coffee mornings, cocktail hours,
and writing retreats. These have been extended to PGRs alongside support for a new dedicated
PGR-led newsletter initiated during Covid-19 to help mitigate risk of isolation for students who were
restricted from their usual face-to-face networks.

Career, personal and academic support is embedded at all levels across the School. This includes
mentoring and encouraging participation in the many leadership and development programmes run
by the University delivered via different methods (online courses, face to face training and
residential). For example, Academic Staff Development provides a number of training courses,

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
such as the CREATE (Cultivating REsearch and Teaching Excellence) staff development scheme
for new lecturers; grant development; and more specialised courses on leading research teams
and project management (see REF5a). All staff are encouraged, and provided with a time
allowance to attend, and members of the School contribute their research expertise and
mentorship, e.g. running mock panels for grant proposal writing. The CREATE course leads to
Fellowship of the Higher Education Authority (HEA) with seven staff becoming HEA Fellows during
the current REF assessment period.

A revised workload system introduced in 2018, increased research time/scholarship (by 50%) to
support time for grant development and increase time for analysis, writing and wider dissemination
activities outside of externally funded projects. We support research by encouraging all staff to
attend at least one academic conference per year, with a usual contribution of £1,000 per annum
from School funds. We also support staff with wider career development activities, such as
participation in senior leadership development courses to better support School research activities
and contribute to wider University research objectives (e.g. Dermott, Hicks, Ottaway). We have a
longstanding study leave system providing relief from teaching and administration for three months
(~30 staff successful over the REF assessment period). There are, in addition, competitive
University Research Fellowships which provide up to 12 months of protected research time for
more substantive projects; three such Fellowships were awarded to School staff, 2014-2020.

As our research outputs and impact case studies show, staff work collaboratively on papers,
grants, dissemination and engagement: a team ethos underpins the work we do. All new staff are
supported to balance activities and to develop research grant applications and submit high quality
publications. Newly appointed early career staff have a reduction of 7.5% in their workload in year
one and 5% in year two to ensure there is time for research activity and grant development to
support career development. All other new academic staff are given a 5% reduction for the first 12
months. All new staff are provided with a buddy-mentor to help them become familiar with School
processes and provide an additional point of contact alongside their formal line manager. We also
have an Early Career network in the School as well as a broader Faculty network to support ECRs
and provide advice and support on career and future employment opportunities. This process has
worked well, with 12 early career staff securing externally funded research grants as PI during the
period. The School also enjoys sustained success with the ESRC Future Leaders Scheme (e.g.
Wijedasa (now SL) and Sardinha (independent researcher included in this submission). The
School provides matched funding for many schemes and Bristol now operates the Bristol Clear
Programme, dedicated to research only staff as a resource to access training and career
development opportunities (see REF5a). The success of our professional development strategy is
reflected in the promotion of staff at all levels, including: 14 promotions to Reader/Associate
Professor and 16 to Professor during this REF cycle.

2.3 Training and supervision of PGR students
Research students have always been integral members of the School, contributing to its
intellectual vitality as well as developing their skills as researchers. The School has a large and
thriving postgraduate student body of 355 students, with ~80-90 postgraduate research students
registering in any one year to study full-time or part-time for PhD, MPhil and Professional Doctorate
degrees.

Challenges to funding PGR students in the sector are well-known, but the School has built on its
longstanding international networks, success in doctoral training structures and large portfolio of

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
research grants to maintain a buoyant cadre of PGR students. The School has introduced
Graduate Teaching Assistantships to enhance opportunities to conduct funded postgraduate
research and undertake additional paid teaching to build towards an academic career. We have
taken advantage of UoB’s position as one of the largest concentrations of funding and support for
PhD research training in the UK, along with International Cotutelle arrangements, to maintain
consistently high entry and completion rates (average 22.6/annum; see table below). We are
members of the ESRC’s Southwest Doctoral Training Partnership (SWDTP) and have advised 61
students (recruited 2014 to 2019) funded in Social Policy, Social Work, and the interdisciplinary
and inter-institutional pathway in Health and Wellbeing. Our successful taught doctoral programme
runs alongside ‘traditional’ PhD student programmes and represents on average 35% of total
completions.

Number of PGR completions over the REF assessment period
                   13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19                        19/20Total
                                                                                   FTEs
  PhD                  10      13     12       8.5      9        13.5      6*     72
  Professional PhD     11      12     13       11       14.5     9.0       12.5 83
  Totals FTEs          21.0    25.0   25.0     19.5     23.5     22.5      18.5* 155
*impacted by Covid-19 (increased number of students requiring extensions/suspensions of studies)

Students have at least two supervisors to provide cross disciplinary and diverse methodological
input as appropriate e.g. the table above includes students co-supervised with Medicine and
Engineering as well as with other schools within Social Sciences (Law, Economics, Sociology and
Archaeology and Anthropology) as part of the ESRC South West Doctoral Training Partnership.

PhD student training is managed via the highly successful and well-resourced Bristol Doctoral
College, which is an institution-wide entity committed to enhancing the environment for all research
students in order to support the growth of the postgraduate research community (see REF5a).
School staff contribute to the Bristol Doctoral College’s Personal and Professional Development
(PPD) programme of workshops, seminars and online resources and support events for research
presentations and community engagement. Research students are physically located alongside
core and research staff in the School and are all provided with a desk, computer, storage and use
of communal space that facilitates interaction between all colleagues. Students are encouraged
and supported financially to present at conferences nationally and internationally. All PhD students
can apply for research expenses (£10K across the School) and are fully integrated into the wider
UoA through Centre events, as well as a specific cross-School PhD seminar series. Through
training and mentorship we support our PGR students to prepare for academic posts in the field
and to secure permanent academic posts in UK and international research institutions including
most recently at Bath, Cardiff, and Birmingham in the UK, and internationally in Malaysia, Hong
Kong, France and the USA. A significant number of PGR students have also secured senior
positions in government or non-governmental organisations, including Kim (2010-2014) who is an
elected member of the Korean National Government, Fifita (2011-2017) who works as a
government statistician in Tonga and Dibben (2008-2016) who advises the Maltese government on
women’s rights to abortion.

2.4 Equality, diversity and inclusion
The School has a strong record of engagement with EDI issues and has been instrumental in
positively influencing wider University EDI practice (see REF5a). Examples include Hester (UoB

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Equalities policy), Dermott (UoB working group on gender pay gap, EDI steering group) and
Porter/Tarleton (improved access for disabled staff). The University is also a member of the
Stonewall Diversity Champions programme, which provides support for all lesbian, gay, bi and
trans (LGBT) staff, with the University sponsoring the annual Bristol Pride festival. Abbott was
sponsored by the University to attend Stonewall’s residential senior leadership training programme
and also established and co-Chaired the University’s Staff LGBTQ+ staff network. All new staff
undertake training on equality and diversity and EDI training is a requirement of the annual SRD.
The School (led by Tarleton) runs the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion choir which welcomes
anyone and which sings about issues that are challenging for staff.

The annual University staff survey has specific questions on areas related to EDI (e.g. culture,
supporting careers, flexible working) and school-wide anonymous results are reported to the
Senior Management Team. We have introduced a new, more transparent, workload model to
ensure tasks can be allocated equitably and the workloads of different categories of staff can be
monitored. We have also introduced a School-specific mentoring scheme in which all ECRs and
new lecturers are provided with a mentor outside of their topic expertise to provide independent
guidance on career development. Our ongoing support for diversity is reflected in our positive
approach to promoting flexible working patterns for both men and women across all levels of
academic roles (e.g. 15% of staff submitted (eight female; two male) currently work on a part-time
basis). Colleagues are also encouraged to apply for the University “carer’s return to work scheme”
which provides time and resource to accelerate their careers after a period of caring leave (four
awards have been made since 2014).

Our recent successful application for Athena Swan Bronze status has enabled us to conduct an in-
depth analysis of all aspects of our profile and processes in relation to gender. We strongly
encourage and reward female staff in taking up senior positions and have seen a marked
improvement in the School’s overall gender pay gap (7.9% in 17/18, down from 14.3% in 13/14).
Particular progress has been made at Professorial level with a Professorial Gender Pay Gap of
8.6% in 2013/14 in favour of men, reduced to 0.9% by 2017/18. This reflects increased promotion
of female staff to senior positions (15 female members of staff promoted to Professor and three
female Professors appointed externally in this assessment period). We offer financial support for
staff to attend courses to develop the next wave of female leaders (Aurora and Female into
Leadership). In line with the UoB code of practice, selection of outputs for REF2021 were
monitored against EDI criteria to ensure that we maintained a balance between proportion of
outputs submitted and number of staff submitted in relation to gender and ECR status. This
increased use of EDI data against research activity is part of our EDI strategy within the School. An
EDI Committee has been set up to oversee progress against targets and to drive a dedicated
action plan including extending the routine monitoring of EDI data to PGR students. This data
reflects our commitment to support PGR students with a disability; reflected in a relatively high
proportion of registrations (~10%/year across the REF period). EDI data also indicates a higher
proportion of BAME staff submitted for REF2021 (17.7%) compared to 2014 (13.5%).



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Income
Successful and sustained research income, enabling the production of data at scale, extensive
networks, and innovation in both methods and theory, is a key pathway to research excellence in

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
our outputs. Research income is also crucial for embedding collaborators into our research to
support knowledge exchange and impact in the School. Our track record in securing research
grants plus dedicated research support at both School and University level has enabled us to
respond well to an evolving research funding landscape. We are consistently ranked in the top 5
for the UK for the discipline (per FTE of staff, HESA external research grant income data UK,
2014-19). We have maintained our high level of grant income in part because we have strategically
diversified our core areas of research as described in sections 1 and 2. ESRC remains one of our
key funders and we have secured ESRC awards totalling £8.2M during the REF assessment
period, of which approx. £5m has been spent. This includes success across multiple streams, not
all included in REF4b data, including standard grants, secondary data analysis awards,
contribution to ESRC Centres, future leader awards, knowledge exchange funds and projects
allocated via the ESRC Impact Acceleration Account. Our number of applications and success with
other parts of UKRI has also increased (e.g. MRC (Ayres, Ottaway) and AHRC (Watson); plus
key contributions to multi-disciplinary teams on large bids (see section 4).

NIHR has increased as a source of funding in line with the shift to incorporate social care more
explicitly into the Department of Health and Social Care. The main source of income is the NIHR’s
School for Social Care Research (SSCR) (led by Abbott and four Senior Fellows in the school
(Cameron, Macdonald, West, Willis) now in its third phase and funded consecutively for 12 years
(~£5M). This supports specific projects (eight in this REF assessment period) as well as providing
support for ECRs. For example, funding has been provided via the school to enable early career
researchers to develop and lead research with the support of Senior Fellows. Two early career
scholars (Dugdale, Symonds) were supported to develop a successful bid for the first study of
fathers with learning disabilities under the mentorship of Abbott resulting in outputs including a
film, Easy Read leaflets and dramatized plays (Mind The Gap). In response to the increased
precarity faced by ECRs due to the impact of Covid-19, we reprofiled our SSCR budget to make
three post-doctoral awards available to ECRs engaged in adult social care research (Johnson,
Powell, Vickery). This is in addition to funds allocated by us from our overall SSCR budget to
create an 'emerging PIs scheme' (£100K each) to explore important topics on adult social care
and, with a mentor, experience leading a study as PI and contribute to increased capacity in the
School (Dugdale, Dowling, Jessiman, Symonds).

Other grant activity responds to funders who are often focused on research in populations that are
most vulnerable to social inequality, including the ‘National Learning Disability Mortality Review
Programme’ (Heslop, Healthcare Quality Improvement, £2.3M, and follow on funding from LeDeR,
£1.6M); and the ‘Cochrane Developmental, Psychosocial & Learning Problems Group’
(Macdonald, Public Health Agency Belfast, £763K). In addition to the NIHR SSCR funding, NIHR
has also supported our research on evaluation of complex interventions primarily led by
Macdonald and Lucas totalling £2.4M across the assessment period. Charity funders continue to
be an important source of income particularly to strengthen partnerships with non-academic
stakeholders, local and national Government and international organisations. Examples include
Nuffield (Staines, Wijedasa), government departments (Harkness, Heslop) and international
NGOs e.g. UNICEF (Gordon, Zhang).

The diversity and scale of our funding, alongside mentorship by experienced colleagues within
coherent Centres, means that the majority of colleagues (>60% on average) are at any one time PI
or PI for sub-contract (if grant held outside UoB) for grants. This provides strength, depth, diversity
and sustainability of research in the School. It also provides a system able to respond to an

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
evolving and increasingly complex funding environment. This has meant we were well placed to
respond to Covid-19 calls to modify existing projects (e.g. Wijedasa successfully bid for additional
ESRC funding to extend her project on the long term trajectories of the mental health of children in
state care in England to include evaluation of the impact of Covid-19; Marsh on policy towards UK
private renting under Covid-19, funded via ESRC/AHRC/JRF UK CaCHE). New projects on Covid-
19-related topics include those funded by the Wellcome Trust: to mobilise and evaluate virtual
compassionate communities for bereavement support for older people and people with dementia in
care homes (West); to investigate the impact of policies of self-isolation and social distancing on
victim-survivors of domestic violence (Williamson); and, to capture the impact of Covid-19 on
children living in poverty nationally and internationally (Gordon, Zhang).

Access to internal grants has improved through availability of extra funding via the University
Research Institutes (see REF5a). We have had considerable success competing for these,
alongside other more established smaller awards (e.g. British Academy, Local Authority funding),
which has enabled us to develop networks and research areas that complement the School’s
current expertise. Smaller grants provide opportunities to pump prime and provide development
data or network building for larger projects. One example of these provided by the University is
through the GW4 Alliance - a consortium of Bath, Bristol, Cardiff and Exeter Universities - and the
UoA has been successful in securing collaborative, research projects funded through the GW4.
Patsios’ project (£24K) identified new ways of addressing inequalities in health among older
people living in low income/economically disadvantaged communities. Gangoli and Hester’s
project (£18K) developed a model of sexual violence (SV) and domestic violence and abuse (DVA)
amongst students and staff at universities and the associated mental health impacts and supports
needed. Kennett (£11K) established an interdisciplinary GW4 community around the international
and comparative study of social protection in regions of the world that are often left under-explored
in academic research: the Middle East and North Africa, East and South East Asia, Latin America
and Africa. Small grants also directly support and accelerate impact. For example, we have
secured 14 awards totalling over £250K from the ESRC Impact Acceleration Account held at
Bristol, including embedding a non-academic Knowledge Exchange Fellow within the school to
accelerate change in policy and practice for gender violence (Hester); leading to contributions to
local, national and international policy including that of the EU, UN, WHO and UNICEF.

Research income also offers an important source of financial support for PGR students and their
career development. In addition to membership of the ESRC South West Doctoral Training
Partnership (SWDTP) we have boosted PhD opportunities through larger research grants, for
example, as part of an ESRC Centre (Harkness) as well as through charity funding e.g. Aziz
Foundation (Miller). A number of our research students have been centrally involved in further
grant activity linked to their doctoral research, particularly in relation to impact via the ESRC
postdoctoral awards (e.g. Bates) and Impact Acceleration Account exploratory grants (e.g.
Wilkinson in collaboration with Sweeting showcasing innovative digital processes for representing
qualitative data). These smaller grants supported via internal Bristol resource have also provided a
pathway for early career researchers to gain their first grant as PI (12 in this REF period).

3.2 Research infrastructure and facilities
Central support and infrastructure are critical to our success as a thriving research centre.
Research and Enterprise Development (RED) within the University of Bristol provide core support
in grant development, design and dissemination (see REF5a). RED also have specialists in
research governance who provide advice and sponsorship for projects. This support has been

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
particularly helpful for applications to UK Funding Councils. For example, ESRC proposals are
subject to internal peer review organised by RED including training with a mock grant panel. This
process is viewed as essential in underpinning our impressive ~30% success rate with the ESRC,
which compares favourably to the 15-20% average. 'Research Open House' is held once a month
with colleagues from RED and the School Research Team available to discuss and advise
colleagues on research ideas and proposals. The School has benefited from support for
knowledge exchange and impact acceleration from a range of staff within RED who provide an
integrated approach to conducting research. We have also established additional support during
this REF cycle at School level through the appointment of new professional services personnel
(Research Development Manager, Communications Officer), increased workload recognition for
Research and Impact Directors, and the creation of a new International Director role.

The School’s research culture is supported and promoted through the allocation of staff time for
writing and dissemination, funded through our HEFCE QR allocation and School support. Whilst
writing for publication is an on-going activity, we also have a focused 'Writing Week' each July
when other administrative and teaching activities are not scheduled. In addition to the £1K
research stipend available to all core funded members of staff, there is an additional c£60K per
year to support research initiatives and to support research bid activities. The School has further
increased resources for targeted pump-priming activities, in relation to inter-disciplinary and global
challenges research. A research incentivisation fund, rising to £75K in 2019/20, provides a range
of research support for both individuals and Centres, directed towards: 1) seedcorn funding for
small projects to develop ‘proof of concept’ and support new collaborations with the potential to
seek larger grants; 2) international networking opportunities to develop wider research links and
potential collaborations; 3) ensuring that ECRs are supported to develop grant applications.
Additional funds provided by the Faculty/University support initial research assistance to incentivise
applications for the most highly competitive large-scale grant applications. The School also
regularly welcomes international Visiting Fellows and PGR students which raises the profile of our
research internationally. With financial support from UoB, we were awarded seven University
Benjamin Meaker Fellowships bringing senior researchers from Argentina (Beccaria, U of Buenos
Aires), Australia (Biggs, U of Melbourne; Park, U of W Sydney), Poland (Dviakon, Lower Silesia)
and USA (Allee, United Nations Dept of Peacekeeping Operations; Brydon-Miller, U of Louisville,
Luibheid, U of Arizona).

Within the School a number of structures and support mechanisms help specifically with public
engagement and maximising research impact. The Impact Director and a Professional and Policy
Liaison Officer focus on supporting researchers with impact strategies and with training and
resources for engagement and impact. PolicyBristol is a cross-University service, which works to
make links between Bristol academics and non-governmental actors, key civil servants and
politicians. We have worked closely with PolicyBristol including collaboratively producing 25% of all
University policy briefings. RED also provides resource for impact via the ESRC Impact
Acceleration Account which has supported 14 different projects across the school (£241K) in the
last five years (including salary support for the non-academic knowledge exchange fellow in the
Gender and Violence centre) to enhance knowledge exchange and uptake of research for impact
and impact acceleration projects for all case studies submitted for this UoA.

The University’s Public Engagement team supports and promotes public engagement with
research and teaching across the University. This involves providing guidance on developing
engagement activities and funding applications, delivering training, running a programme of

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
innovative activities and ensuring engagement is embedded in our structures and processes
specifically with initiatives such as participation in the ESRC Festival of Social Science, and
assistance with writing policy blogs). Public engagement and impact are now included in teaching
and research within academic role profiles, and promotion and progression criteria (see REF5a).

The successful application and action plan connected to the Athena Swan Bronze award and our
continued work towards the Silver award includes review of our research income processes as part
of our commitment to highest EDI principles. This includes monitoring of all applications and
awards against EDI indicators and integration between Research and Impact and EDI Committee
goals to produce an annual audit.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Collaboration
Collaboration is a central focus of all our work. We believe that we have the greatest impact on
policy and practice by working in partnership with fellow academics, policy makers, service
agencies, practitioners, service users, carers and those who are the focus of our research. The
School is extensively engaged in developing research collaborations, networks and partnerships
and engaging research beneficiaries as part of developed impact strategies.

4.2 Research collaborators
Our enhanced research capacity over this REF period has put us in a stronger position to grasp
opportunities to collaborate in applications to major interdisciplinary funding initiatives in which the
School plays a lead role. For example, Ayres leads a work package on a major inter-disciplinary
project to ‘Tackle the root causes upstream of unhealthy urban decision making - TRUUD’ (£6.7M,
MRC, 2019-2024). TRUUD involves over 30 researchers from five UK Universities working in the
social and health sciences, engineering, law, economics, town planning and real estate. The
project is co-produced with partners in Bristol City Council and Greater Manchester Combined
Authority and examines how the prevention of non-communicable diseases might be factored into
decision-making on urban development.

Other notable examples include Marsh, a Co-I and Governance theme lead for the
ESRC/AHRC/JRF-funded UK Collaborative Centre for Housing Evidence (CaCHE) led by Glasgow
(£7M, 2017-2022). CaCHE is an independent, multi-disciplinary and multi-sector consortium of ten
higher education institutions and three non-academic organisations, including housing charities
and the private sector, and is improving the evidence base for housing policy and practice
throughout the UK. Harkness is Co-I of the ‘ESRC Research Centre for Micro-Social Change’
(£6.2M, 2019-2024). The Centre promotes collaboration between economists, sociologists and
other social scientists using quantitative methodologies to provide evidence with which to address
key societal challenges. Working with Dermott and colleagues at Essex, Harkness is leading on
labour markets and institutions and family change. Harkness is also International PI on a project
under the ‘Dynamics of Inequality Across the Lifecycle (DIAL)’ research programme (NORFACE,
€1.4M, 2017-21). Working with colleagues in Humboldt University and the Universities of
Copenhagen, Amsterdam and Turku, this project seeks to understand inequality and how it
impacts on the lives of young adults in different parts of Europe. We also collaborate with
Government agencies, for example, Heslop is working with NHS and Public Health England to link
data from GP registers of people with learning disabilities with English mortality data, contributing

                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
her expertise to the SAGE Committee advising government during the COVID-19 pandemic (see
below).

The School has also mobilised existing and new interdisciplinary collaborations to respond
successfully to research initiatives around Covid-19. Wijedasa’s work examining the effects of
Covid-19 on the mental health of vulnerable children (ESRC, £207K) involves existing relationships
with 18 local authority children’s social care departments to collect data. In a Nuffield project,
£136K), Wijedasa has developed a new partnership with the Bristol Medical School to connect, for
the first time, national children’s social care data (held by the Department for Education) with
national data on children’s mental health (held by the NHS). This will provide new evidence on the
prevalence of mental health concerns, children’s referrals and their prognosis and pathways
through the mental health services, before, during and after the Covid-19 pandemic. Other Covid-
19 related research includes addressing the impacts of Covid-19 on children’s economic and social
wellbeing (Harkness ESRC, £168K); on monitoring the impact of Covid-19 on people with learning
disabilities and family carers with academics and user organisations across the UK (Abbott,
Heslop, NIHR, £6.7K); virtual compassionate communities (West, Elizabeth Blackwell Institute,
Wellcome, £3.9K); the quality of local authority website information for carers in Covid-19
(Bezzina, Lloyd & Willis, NIHR, £11K); and domestic violence and abuse (DVA) in England,
(Williamson, Elizabeth Blackwell Institute, Wellcome, £27K). Williamson’s expert advice was
cited in the MOD’s Response to Domestic Abuse in the Context of Coronavirus; Heslop
contributed to the SAGE Committee with respect to approach to capturing impact of Covid-19 on
mortality rates for people with learning difficulties; and Macdonald and Abbott both accepted
invitations to become members of the College of Experts for the UKRI-DHSC Covid-19 rapid
research funding initiative.

4.3 Networks and partnerships
Partnerships with academic and non-academic agencies and user communities are integral to our
work. Internationally, we are involved in over 30 partnerships with other HEIs and non-academic
agencies. Singleton’s work is emblematic of this. She leads a team of 20 leading migration
scholars in the World University Network (WUN) Migration, Development and Global
Transformations (MDT) initiative. Her role was facilitated by two secondments to the International
Organisation for Migration (IOM) in Berlin, one of which funded by an ESRC IAA grant (£19K).
These secondments led to the creation of the IOM’s Global Migration Data Analysis Centre
(GMDAC) and Migration Data Portal, launched in the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to which
Singleton is currently Senior Advisor. The School, together with the WUN team in UoB facilitated
the creation of the global WUN-IOM Strategic Alliance, which has involved considerable
engagement with organisations including the European Commission and United Nations.
Singleton’s work has led to revised UN Recommendations on International Migration Statistics
adopted in 164 countries, meaning that, for the first time, a regional dimension and improvement of
international migration data is a key priority of the Global Compact for Migration.

Nationally, the School’s membership of the NIHR School for Social Care Research (SSCR),
secured via competitive tender, is a collaboration with the LSE and the Universities of Kent,
Manchester, Birmingham, York and Kings College London and is a significant indication of our
influence in the field. This is the lead organisation in England for developing the evidence base to
inform and improve adult social care practice by commissioning and conducting internationally
leading research. It is now in Phase III, with a total budget of £20M. Abbott is an Associate
Director of SSCR and also Chair of the newly established national NIHR Research for Social Care

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Committee with an annual research budget of £3M. Macdonald is a member of the NIHR Clinical
Research Network (CRN) which supports researchers, service users, the public and health and
care organisations to participate in high-quality research. As National Speciality Lead for Social
Care, her brief is to enable the CRN to support social care research projects.

Our extensive local networks evidence our commitment to utilising our research to help solve
critical challenges in our local community. For example, Dodds’ work on HIV treatment and
prevention (DH, £110K) has led to her involvement in the Bristol’s Sexual Health Improvement
Team and Bristol’s HIV Fast Track City Steering Group. She works with the City Council’s health
commissioning team and local voluntary agencies to strategically design and plan interventions
that dramatically reduce the burden of HIV and HIV related stigma across the city.

More broadly, our partnerships with non-academic stakeholders result in a variety of invitations to
contribute to important inquiries and consultations. At the international level these include advising
the Council of Europe and European Network of Work With Perpetrators of Domestic Violence
(Hester), the EU HIV/TB and Migration Project (Dodds); the European Commission’s Academic
Network of European Disability Experts (Abbott/Williams), and the Marie Skłodowska-Curie
funded NEWBREED programme on Successful Ageing (West). At the UK level they include the
Joseph Rowntree Foundation review on Poverty, Child Abuse and Neglect (Dermott), the Early
Intervention Foundation’s review on how to ‘Engage Disadvantaged Parents’ (Symonds) and the
National Care Crisis Review (Wijedasa).

At a UK government level, Berridge has been Specialist Advisor to the House of Commons
Education Select Committee, Gangoli advised the Women’s and Equality Committee on Sexual
Harassment and Hester advised the same committee on prostitution and sex work, and Staines
has advised the House of Commons Justice Committee. Staff are frequently invited to contribute to
All Party Parliamentary Groups related to their area of expertise, and examples include on Land
Value (Wang), Muscular Dystrophy (Abbott), and Domestic Abuse (Hester). Staff also contribute
to specialist government initiatives such as Inquiries on Adoption (Selwyn, Ottaway) Migration
(Singleton) and Young People in Custody (Staines); the Cross-Government Trial Advice Panel
(Macdonald), and the Department of Health Programme Board for Personalised Health Budgets
(Heslop).

4.4 Beneficiaries
The School prides itself on the longevity and authenticity of its partnering arrangements with
beneficiaries. Many staff within the School have maintained close working relationships with non-
academic partners over a number of years and across multiple different grant awards. This has
allowed us to build the required trust and understanding to conduct work in highly sensitive areas.
For example, Abbott developed a 15-year relationship with the Duchenne Family Support Group
and Muscular Dystrophy UK (MDUK), enabling highly co-produced research exploring this life-
limiting condition in relation to social care, sex and gender, and end of life planning (NIHR, £170K;
David Telling Charitable Trust, £25; MDUK, £44K). Williams’ research on ‘Tackling Disabling
Practices: co-production and change’ (ESRC, £1.4M) was based around high trust relationships to
explore concerns about intransigence in the culture of disability practice: the research was co-
produced with disabled people and Disability Rights UK. Facilitated by two ESRC IAA grants
(£25K), it was highly successful in disseminating findings to practitioners and service users.
Tarleton and Tilbury’s 15-year commitment to running the Working Together with Parents
Network (WTPN) involves over 890 professionals supporting parents with learning difficulties (PLD)

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
in the UK, Republic of Ireland, USA, Japan, Cayman Islands and Australia. Their 2016 update of
the Good Practice Guidance on working with parents with a learning disability emanates from their
research project (Esmee Fairburn, £456K) and has resulted in Family Court judges referencing it in
published judgments relating to PLD cases. The development of Canning’s innovative Right to
Remain Asylum Rights Navigation Board out of her ESRC Future Leaders’ Project has been
implemented across 130 organisations across the UK, Europe and Hong Kong to enable migrants
applying for asylum to navigate the complex labyrinth of asylum laws and policy. Berridge’s work
advising and Department for Education and consecutive Nuffield grants (£473K, 2014-2020)
underpins the significant change in Government policy and practice on how young people in care
are monitored and supported to improve their education outcomes (ICS: Effecting policy and
practice change in England to improve the educational outcomes of Children in Care).

4.5 Wider contribution to the research base, economy and society
Prizes and awards: CBEs were awarded to Selwyn (2015) and Hague (2019) for services for
adopted children and the prevention of violence against women, adding to the OBE already held by
Hester. Hester was a finalist in the 2020 ESRC Outstanding Societal Impact awards.

Research Council Commissioning Panels: Staff hold positions on Research Council
Commissioning Panels, including the ESRC’s Grant Assessment Panel (currently Abbott,
Harkness) as well as the ESRC/DFID Panel on Disability, Inequality and Poverty (Gordon); and
the ESRC-AHRC UK-Japan Grants Panel (Kennett). Staff also undertake panel membership of
international equivalents to the UKRI e.g. the Norwegian Research Council (Dermott).

REF Panel membership: Macdonald was member of the REF2014 and now the 2021 sub-panel
for Social Work and Social Policy and Abbott for REF2021. Carpenter was the Deputy Convenor
for the Social Science panel of the Hong Kong RAE2020.

Academic and Professional Learned Societies: The considerable and longstanding contributions of
staff to their fields of expertise are reflected in current Fellowships of the Academy of Social
Sciences (Hester; Lloyd); the British Academy (Gordon) and Royal Society of Arts (Hester,
Gordon). Staff also hold senior positions in academic societies within the UK e.g. Regional Studies
Association, (Ayres); Social Policy Association, Izuhara, Kennett) and Europe e.g. European
Sociological Association Families Research Network, (Dermott); European Group for the Study of
Deviance and Social Control, (Canning), and Symonds is currently Vice Chair of the European
Social Work Research Association.

Invited keynotes and organisation of conferences: Between 2014 and 2019 over120 invited
keynotes were delivered by staff at national and international events and we frequently host
international and high-profile conferences at Bristol in areas of our research expertise. These
include: the 15th East Asian Social Policy International Conference on the theme of ‘Social Policy
in Post-Growth East Asia’ (Izuhara); the inaugural Bristol Poverty Institute Conference reflecting on
50 years of poverty research in the UK (Gordon); the Policy & Politics Annual Conferences in 2015
and 2016 (Ayres, Lendvai-Bainton); the World Universities Network Symposium on Migration,
Development and Global Transformations (Singleton) and the European Network on Gender
Violence conference (Aghtaie, Hester, Mulvihill, Williamson)

Editorship of leading journals and book series: Over the REF period, staff have been involved in
over 60 editorial roles in disciplinary journals and book series and have been lead editors for key

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
journals including the Journal of Social Policy (Kennett, Izuhara, Co-Editors)); Policy & Politics
(Ayres, Berglund, Co-Editors)) Families, Relationships and Societies (Dermott, Editor-in-Chief);
Journal of Gender-Based Violence (Hester, Founding Editor); Poverty and Social Justice (Fahmy,
Co-Editor); Housing Studies (Marsh, Managing Editor); Cochrane Developmental Psychosocial
and Learning Problems (Macdonald, Coordinating Editor); and International Journal of Disability
Studies & Social Justice (Abbott, Executive Editor). Editorships of book series includes New
Horizons for Social Policy (Izuhara and Kennett, Edward Elgar); Sociology of Children and
Families (Dermott Watson, BUP); Studies in Childhood and Youth (Twum-Danso Imoh,
Palgrave) and Studies in Social Harm (Pantazis).

Collaborative arrangements for PGR training: We have successfully gained funding for PhD
supervision through the joint funded China Scholarship Council (e.g. Meng, Wang, Wei) and
frequently welcome students sponsored by the Chilean government (most recently Palma
Carvajal). We have an agreement with UCT South Africa under which students are funded via the
‘Bristol-Macquarie Cotutelle’ programme and spend half their time in each institution, enabling
them to receive a PhD from both bodies. As noted above our membership of the ESRC SWDTP
ensures that funded students may be co-supervised with colleagues at UWE, Bath, and Exeter and
can access additional research training from these universities.

Concluding remarks
The School for Policy Studies in the Faculty of Social Sciences and Law is committed to being a
diverse, collegiate community dedicated to deep rooted world-class research alongside teaching
and professional support in social and public policy and social work. In our research we will
continue: to examine policy areas that affect us all day to day; influence and challenge policies
implemented by governments and institutions; investigate the issues, factors and attitudes
underlying the local and global social concerns that make our headlines; and respond to social and
policy changes and to the needs and demands of the various communities with whom we routinely
work in partnership.




                                                                                          Page 19
