Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Northampton

 Unit of Assessment: Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience (UoA4)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit context and structure
 In 2014, psychological research was spread across a number of schools, research centres and
 groups. This work has now been refocussed as a result of moving from a school structure to a
 new faculty structure. Psychology now sits within the Faculty of Health, Education and Society
 (FHES) with all activity contained within a single Centre for Psychology and Social Sciences
 (CP&SS). An extensive consultation with research active staff identified three key areas of interest
 and led to the creation of three research themes: Exceptional Experiences & Consciousness
 Studies (EECS); Diversity, Community & Equality (DCI); and Health Education & Behaviour
 Change (HEBC). All research active members of staff within Psychology are affiliated with the
 Centre and are aligned with one or more of the thematic areas. Theme membership is not
 exclusive; staff are encouraged to align with other groups and work with colleagues from other
 disciplines across the university depending on research interest and expertise. Researchers are
 supported in establishing national and international networks that can lead to collaborations across
 HEIs.

 Psychology has experienced a significant change in the staffing profile of the unit over the current
 REF cycle with only 2 of the 8 staff submitted to REF2014 still with the unit. Targeted recruitment and
 staff development have, however, led to a substantial increase in the number of staff eligible to be
 returned as part of this submission (19). The consequent growth in depth and breadth of research
 activity has allowed us to establish a viable and authentic research community that is able to support
 the aspirations of its members in all stages of their career.

 A professorial level member of UoN staff, Roe, serves as centre lead, and four experienced
 researchers, Prokopiou, Gulliford, Hill and Chen-Wilson (jointly) serve as theme leads for DCI,
 EECS and HEBC respectively. The roles and responsibilities were co-created by the centre and
 theme leads. The Centre is responsible for the strategic direction of research activity, including
 alignment with the University’s strategic plan, and ensuring that institutional targets are met. The
 Centre acts as a focal point for gathering and reporting on information that maps against key
 performance indicators, and through which resources are deployed to support research initiatives.
 Operational matters are devolved to theme level, with each theme running regular workshops and
 meetings to develop staff and help progress ongoing research projects.

 Research is managed by the Centre via a clear organisational structure and a regular programme
 of events that affords top-down dissemination of information and bottom-up discussion of
 challenges and opportunities. Research in the Centre has been developed to align with the
 university’s Strategic Plan 2015-2020, specifically to focus on research that can have local,
 national and international impact upon people’s health and wellbeing. Given the growth of
 research activity over the review period, and in response to the adoption of the Research Plan
 2020-2025, this brief has been expanded to emphasise Equality & Inclusion, Collaboration &
 Internationalisation (including an increase in the number of Visiting Professor and Visiting Fellow),
 and Open Research.

 The theme leads maintain routine contact with all colleagues aligned to their theme and are
 responsible for reporting back on local issues at regular operational meetings with the Centre
 Lead. In turn, CP&SS are accountable to the Faculty Research & Enterprise Committee (FREC),
 which is responsible for regulation and quality assurance. FREC sets annual performance targets
 and provides an overarching framework for the Centre’s strategic direction and research
 development support. The Centre manages Psychology research in the Faculty by:

    1. organising and hosting research workshops, seminars and events, including arrangement


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         for external speakers to give talks at the university and meet with colleagues;
    2.   disseminating, and consulting with colleagues in relation to research-related updates,
         opportunities and events;
    3.   representing the centre at Faculty and institutional events and committees, and attending
         meetings, committees and staff development events with course teams;
    4.   signposting and developing opportunities for research skills-development;
    5.   supporting staff in the preparation of bids, and assembling expert teams, when opportunities
         for research, evaluation and consultation arise;
    6.   mentoring early career researchers (ECRs) and would-be researchers in Psychology and
         cognate disciplines;
    7.   providing a collective identity, and a locus of discipline-based training, for postgraduate
         researchers in Psychology;
    8.   providing peer-review for colleagues’ nascent research bids, publications, strategies and
         impacts and
    9.   providing a home and an identity for Visiting Professors/Fellows.


 Over the current REF period the Centre’s priorities have been:

    1. Diversity, community and identity. The DCI group led by Prokopiou is dedicated to
       undertaking interdisciplinary applied research which promotes social change and social
       justice. Their research foci span social and cultural identities, immigration and refugee
       studies, ethnicity, class, critical feminist perspectives, human geographies, queer studies,
       online spaces, deviance, professional identities, education, sexual harassment and build and
       space.

    2. Exceptional experience and consciousness studies. The EECS group led by Gulliford
       is dedicated to the study of exceptional experiences from a variety of perspectives ranging
       from parapsychology and anomalistic psychology to transpersonal psychology. Their
       research foci span anomalous experiences, religious experiences, spirituality, sleep &
       dreams, mindfulness, mental health, wellbeing, cognition and the nature of consciousness.

    3. Health, Education, & behaviour change. The HEBC research theme led by Chen-Wilson
       and Hill draws on cross-disciplinary expertise from researchers within the Faculty of Health
       and Society to understand behaviour change and address real world problems in the areas
       of health and education. HEBC researchers are inter-disciplinary and utilise a range of
       quantitative, qualitative and mixed methods approaches to conduct applied research and
       advance existing knowledge within this area.

 1.2 Unit research objectives and impact strategy

 For REF 2014 the following objectives were set:

    1. Ensure each group achieves a critical mass and generates sufficient income to
       provide a resource platform for ongoing research activity that is self-sustaining and
       impactful
 In 2014 there were 4 research groupings within Psychology: Cognitive & Experimental Research
 Team (CERT); Centre for the Study of Anomalous Psychological Processes (CSAPP); Mental
 Health & Counselling (MHaC); and Social & Cultural Research in Psychology Group (SCRIP).
 Staff changes and restructuring led to a shift in the profile of research expertise and a new
 structure was developed to fit with the existing expertise and research interests, with larger
 numbers of staff aligned to each theme that enhances their sustainability. The Centre for
 Psychology and Social Sciences now serves as a focal point for co-ordinating research activity
 and providing research active staff with an identity. The Centre’s operational plan ensures that
 local activity aligns with the Faculty’s strategic aims.



                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Since 2014 there has been considerable investment in the recruitment and development of staff.
 Metrics (e.g. research income, peer reviewed research outputs, PGR supervisions) that are
 returned periodically demonstrate steady and sustainable progress in the amount of research
 funding won, and in diversifying the sources of funding. Growth in staff numbers and targeted
 appointments ensures that each theme now has a critical mass of researchers with a shared vision
 that creates momentum and protects the group from any effects of staff turnover.

    2. Maintain/enhance specialist areas to achieve international recognition in our
       research groups
 We have managed to achieve a steady and sustainable expansion in the international reach of
 our research. Judicious appointments to strengthen areas of established expertise have enabled
 significant growth in the number of international research collaborations (as described in §4.1) and
 funding partnerships (described in §3.1). Outputs are published in a much wider range of
 international peer-reviewed journals, enhancing the profile of the unit. Nevertheless, many staff
 are ECRs and supporting them to develop their own research networks remains a priority.

    3. Develop collaborative research projects with divisional colleagues, staff from other
       disciplines around the university and with external researchers
 Reorganising research activity under the umbrella of the CP&SS has enabled us to broaden the
 scope of the centre’s activities and encourage colleagues who would not have identified with the
 specialisms of CERT, CSAPP, MHaC, SCRIP to feel that their research ambitions can be realised
 within the new structure. An extensive mapping exercise has ensured that the new framework is
 a much better fit for the expertise and interests of members. Themes have been designed to
 encourage cross-disciplinary work, and to facilitate collaborations across traditional silos. PGR
 supervision has provided further opportunities for staff to work closely with colleagues from other
 disciplines (§4.1). Support mechanisms have been established to enable networking opportunities
 (§2.1) and this is evident in the range of national and international partners that staff have
 collaborated with (§4.1)

 In the next research cycle, we will continue our commitment to conduct research that can have
 positive consequences for health and wellbeing. Going forward, this will be enhanced by the
 University of Northampton’s pledge to align our impact work with the United Nation’s Sustainable
 Development Goals (SDGS), and our undertaking to make our first submission to the Times Higher
 Education Impact Rankings in 2021. Future Psychology work will be positioned with respect to
 SDG3: Good Health and Wellbeing, and will be achieved by strengthening our relationships with
 key stakeholders, including Northamptonshire County Council, Age UK, the PSHE Association
 and Confederation of Healing Organisations to ensure that our work has real impact for real
 people.

 Additionally, in order to meet the challenges of the University’s Research Plan 2020-2025,
 Psychology will be focused on the following objectives over the next five years:

    1. Equality and inclusion. We will aim to use our research to advance issues of equality,
       inclusion and social mobility. Numbers of projects and outputs across these areas will
       increase with research carried out being to the highest ethical standards.

    2. Internationalisation. We have taken a strategic decision to broaden the international
       scope of Psychological research within UoN. This will enhance our ability to contribute to
       our wider discipline and will enhance our research-led teaching offer. Future staffing
       appointments will be directed towards this objective.


    3. Impact and collaboration. We will enhance our social impact by focusing on public
       engagement. UoN is the first UK member of the Ashoka U network of socially-impactful
       universities. It has an institution-wide Changemaker Challenge that focuses on ‘Culture,


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Heritage and Environment’, and Psychology will continue to take a leading role on this
        theme.

    4. Accessibility. We will increase the accessibility of our research ensuring it is available to
       both Psychology professionals and academics as well as the wider public.


 1.3 Open access

 Recognising the difficulties in replicating research studies within the field of Psychology, in addition
 to receiving training and support in open access and copyright, staff have been trained in research
 data management paying particular attention to the preservation and reproducibility of research.
 Datasets are now required to be uploaded to the Universities CRIS (Current Research Information
 System) on submission, where it is checked for replicability and long-term digital preservation.
 Staff adhere to the FAIR (findable, accessible, interoperable and reasonable) sharing of data,
 striving to be as open as possible, but understanding when necessary restrictions are required.
 Staff have been provided with training in the selection of places for publication and use tools such
 as Sherpa/Romeo to check funder requirements and conditions relating to copyright. Where
 appropriate, staff are encouraged to use copyright addendums, tailored support for this is provided
 by Library and Learning Services. The University of Northampton has an institutional fund to cover
 the cost of open access where the green route is either not applicable, or the length of the embargo
 period is too lengthy.

 1.4 Research integrity

 Psychology supports a culture of research integrity. It works within the University of Northampton’s
 Research Integrity Policy, which seeks to: maintain the highest standards of rigour and integrity in
 all aspects of research; ensure that research is conducted according to appropriate ethical, legal
 and professional frameworks, obligations and standards; support a research environment that is
 underpinned by a culture of integrity and based on good governance, best practice and support
 for the development of researchers; use transparent, robust and fair processes to deal with
 allegations of research misconduct should they arise; and work together to strengthen the integrity
 of research and to reviewing progress regularly and openly. Researchers work within the ethical
 guidelines provided by the British Psychological Society (BPS) and the British Association for
 Counselling and Psychotherapy (BACP), and all activity is overseen by a dedicated Faculty level
 research ethics panel (PGR projects are scrutinised by a university level Research Ethics
 Committee).

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

 An essential factor in the appointment of new staff has been their capacity to contribute to the
 strategic priorities of the research themes. Since 2014, person specifications for all Psychology roles
 (excluding Graduate Teaching Assistants (GTAs) and roles that require practitioner qualifications
 and experience) have included criteria relating to research expertise and previous track record.
 Candidates’ experience of (and capacity to develop) research outputs, funding bids and
 postgraduate supervision are assessed during shortlisting and interviews. Practising counsellors
 and psychotherapists who have joined us to contribute to our undergraduate and postgraduate
 taught programmes have been encouraged to undertake advanced degrees as part of their
 professional development so that scientific good practice can complement their extensive
 professional experience (e.g., Harrison-Breed, Evenden).

 New appointments have been targeted to build on the strengths in DCI, EECS and HEBC. All new
 staff are research active (having completed or being registered for a PhD or equivalent) and
 contribute to research activity. However, many are ECRs, and so considerable efforts have been
 made to support their research aspirations and enable professional development. The Research

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Leader, Roe, meets with all new appointments to introduce Research Centre themes, identify staff
 with overlapping interests and facilitate introductions, signpost support mechanisms, and set
 research-related milestones for the probationary period and beyond.

 A significant aspect of professional development has been the growth in capacity to supervise PhD
 projects, with Postgraduate Researcher (PGR) numbers increasing from 22 in 2013 to 32 (22 current,
 10 awarded), which has created opportunities for staff collaborations and foci for research group
 activity. The groups have established significant international reputations for their work, evidenced by
 their key involvement in collaborative projects that have been awarded over GBP5,000,000 in
 external funding since 2014 (of which GBP1,250,000 comes to the University of Northampton), by
 invitations to give addresses at international conferences and to contribute to edited book projects
 (outlined in §4.1).

 Staff participate in a Performance and Development Review (PDR) annual cycle that must include
 at least one objective that is research/scholarship related. Line managers meet regularly with
 staff to review progress against targets, and to identify any challenges or resource needs that
 might hinder successful completion. The PDR is also the process through which individual
 research training needs are identified staff are allocated scholarly hours per annum that can be
 set against their PDR research objectives and progress is monitored as part of their PDR process.
 In 2020 the university introduced a teaching and research contract to formally recognise research
 hours for research active staff (220 hours) which was additional to the hours already provided to
 them in workload planning for scholarly activity.

 Research activity is facilitated at Faculty level by seedcorn funding initiatives to pump prime
 promising research projects. For example, Cooper, Saunders and Hitchman were given funding
 for a proof of principle pilot study that later resulted in a publication and a successful funding bid to
 the Society for Psychical Research (see §3.1), da Silva completed a Quantitative
 Electroencephalography accreditation to complete work that resulted in outputs included in this
 submission, Volkovskaya and Jivraj received funds to enable a collaboration with St Andrew’s
 Hospital in Northampton that provides specialist mental healthcare, and Prokopiou and Hill were
 able to appoint research assistants to complete additional transcription of material mapping impact
 of ongoing projects.

 We provide additional support by allocating staff development funds to enable individuals to attend
 conferences and professional meetings in order to disseminate research findings and to network
 with colleagues both nationally and internationally. In applying for staff development funds,
 colleagues are asked to identify the outcomes that would be realised from that activity in terms of
 publications, collaborations, and funding bids. We have several examples of this investment in staff
 developmental funds leading to externally funded projects such as Prokopiou’s Horizon 2020
 project, Yarrum’s NIHR funded project, Gulliford’s Templeton project.

 Within the Faculty of Health, Education & Society, members also have access to an extensive offer
 of interdisciplinary researcher-development training, workshops and seminars delivered through the
 Faculty’s Research and Innovation Development programme. This programme of events was
 directly indexed to the four domains of the Vitae (2015) Researcher Development Framework but
 has since been updated to align with the obligations of the Vitae (2019) Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers. The programme is reviewed annually through consultation
 with the Faculty’s multidisciplinary research community, and sessions are explicitly tailored for
 ‘Beginner’, ‘PGR’, ‘ECR’ or ‘Mid-career+’ audiences. The Faculty Research and Innovation
 Development programme includes more than 20 core focused workshops (e.g., ‘building
 partnerships for research’, ‘researcher well-being’, and ‘navigating peer review’).

 Staff at all stages of career development are expected to participate in weekly Psychology-
 specific seminars and workshops, with responsibility for session content rotating among the
 Centre and themes on a regular 4-week cycle. Recent examples of Centre workshops include:
 ‘Writing for publication: Sharing hints and tips for good practice’; ‘How to cost a bid: A practical
 guide to costing a grant application and getting university approval’; ‘Researching for impact’,

                                                                                                    Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ‘Secondary analysis of summary statistics’, and ‘PhD examining’. Theme meetings are more
 intimate and topic-specific but include ‘shut up and write’ sessions where staff work individually but
 in a supportive collective environment, and informal ‘show and tell’ sessions in which staff can pitch
 research ideas, provide updates on ongoing projects, or practise conference presentations.

 Staff with PhDs are encouraged to supervise PGRs. In Psychology, a mentorship model has been
 adopted so as to strategically increase and augment the supervisory capacity within the unit. This
 involves the creation of supervisory teams that comprise a Director of Studies, a First Supervisor
 and a Second Supervisor (one of the two supervisors may serve as the DoS, to create a team of
 two). A DoS is expected to have experience of supervising to successful completion, and to be
 familiar with UoN processes and procedures. In this way, inexperienced staff can join supervision
 teams under the mentorship of a more senior colleague. For REF2014 we had two members of
 staff who had sufficient supervision experience to qualify as DoS; for REF 2021 this has increased
 to eleven (with a further four staff currently working towards this). A further twelve Psychology
 staff have been involved in PhD supervision for the first time.

 Many projects are inter-disciplinary, and supervisory teams are not restricted to staff with
 psychology-specific expertise, so that members have benefited from the opportunity to work
 closely with colleagues from a wide range of related subject areas, including sociology, education,
 health, nursing, media Studies, computing and human geography. All staff appointed to
 supervisory teams are required to complete a Supervisor Development Programme that is run
 centrally by the Graduate School. Staff can achieve a PG Cert award by topping up this
 programme with an additional placement module (e.g., Cooper, Hill, Maunder, L.A. Smith).
 Supervisors are expected to undertake continuing professional development in respect of their
 supervision duties. The Graduate School runs regular refresher and update workshops (‘Supervising
 the early stages of a research degree’, ‘Maintaining your research degree student’s momentum’,
 ‘Supervising the end game’, Being a research degree examiner’) and hosts an annual event that
 explores key issues. Several Psychology colleagues have contributed to this programme and run
 regular events on behalf of the Graduate School (e.g., Bartos, Callaghan, Collings, Maunder,
 Pourseied, Roe).

 For more experienced staff, the university have awarded the title of Associate Professor to
 recognise significant contributions in the areas of Learning and Teaching, Professional Practice,
 and Enterprise, and Research. Members who are awarded the title of Associate Professor work
 with a senior Professorial colleague, internal or external, from their discipline and have
 opportunities to participate in Faculty and Institutional committees relating to research
 governance, strategy, ethics and excellence. Each Associate Professor works with their mentor
 to identify appropriate objectives and set out a pathway for their achievement that would enable
 them to meet the criteria for full professor status. The Psychology unit has 3 Associate Professors
 (Gulliford, Hill, and Maunder).

 Faculty leaders have made a number of strategic investments in Visiting Fellows / Visiting
 Professors with strong, international reputations in subdisciplines aligned to the three centre
 themes. These appointments are designed to provide additional, subject-specific leadership,
 mentoring and guidance. For example, Fiona Warner-Gale is a core member of national networks
 concerned with child and adolescent mental health and supports the IAPT team. Erica Bowen is
 Professor at the University of Worcester, and leads the research strategy for the Centre for
 Violence Prevention. She has advised on research supervision and has served as a mentor to
 mid-career staff. Richard Broughton is a past Director of the Rhine Research Centre, Durham,
 North Carolina, and has supported EECS staff. Leo Ruickbie is a sociologist/historian and an
 experienced book and journal editor who provides support for qualitative projects and to those
 who are new to publishing. Paul Rogers has particular expertise with multivariate statistical
 analysis and supports staff conducting quantitative research.

 2.2 Postgraduate researchers

 In the current REF period, 46 PGRs (32 attributed to Psychology) have been supervised by

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 members of this unit, continuing a steady and sustainable growth in Psychology supervision across
 a range of disciplines. Given the multidisciplinary nature of Psychology, some PGRs supervised by
 Psychology staff are not based in Psychology but in allied disciplines, such as Computing,
 Education, Health, Human Geography, Media Studies, Nursing, and Sociology. The majority of
 PGRs are self-funding home/EU students who are registered part-time, but the cohort also includes
 eight students who have received bursaries from externally funded projects won by staff, from the
 Fundação Bial, Porto, the Fondation Salvia, Geneva, the Confederation of Healing Organisations,
 UK, and the Indian Government. Additionally, the Faculty has invested in a successful strategy to
 create 4-year Graduate Teaching Assistant (GTA) positions that include a fee waiver to register for
 PhD study. To date, three GTAs have been awarded their PhDs, a further three are close to
 completion, and two have recently been created from Templeton and Bial Foundation awards. PGRs
 thus form a large, vibrant, and active part of the Psychology research community.

 PGR students are assigned to a research centre upon entry based on their research topic and
 proposed methods. They are expected to participate in centre events as part of their discipline-based
 training as outlined in the university’s Framework for Postgraduate Researcher Development. All
 PGRs are supervised by a team of 2-3 subject or methodology specialists. In Psychology, the
 sustainable growth in supervisory capacity has enabled supervisory teams to be increasingly tailored
 to PGRs’ interests and needs. Supervisory teams are allocated at the initial application stage and
 are designed to offer a balance of subject expertise, methodological background and supervisory
 experience. Supervisory teams meet regularly with PGRs, and work closely with them to support
 and monitor the development of their project, research skills and professional-academic
 development.

 All PGRs receive an extensive package of induction and generic researcher-development training
 from the University’s Graduate School. For example, in the academic year 2019-20 over 40
 workshops and seminars were scheduled that focused on practical matters (e.g., ‘Developing
 academic writing skills’; ‘How to conduct a literature review’; ‘Editing and finishing your thesis’),
 methodological matters (e.g., introductory and intermediate classes on quantitative and qualitative
 analysis methods; use of software packages such as SPSS and NVivo), operational matters (e.g.,
 how to deal with key QU stages such as initial project approval, transfer, the mock viva, and
 preparing for the viva itself), and also personal wellbeing (self-care). Many of these sessions are
 accessible online for students who are not based locally, via a dedicated Gateway platform. This
 provision has expanded greatly during lockdown as a consequence of the Covid pandemic.
 Additional workshops and drop-in sessions have been organised to help students cope with the
 peculiar demands of working during social isolation. This is complemented by discipline-based
 training delivered by the Faculty’s induction programme (co-presented by the CP&SS lead), which
 includes an introduction to the research centre and themes, and to Psychology’s research facilities
 and software.

 The University implements a milestone model to monitor and support PGR progression. Following
 an initial probationary period, PGRs submit an initial project proposal to a Social Sciences Research
 Degrees Board (SSRDB). Roe is Chair of the SSRDB and Maunder and Chen-Wilson are board
 members, ensuring that issues and examples of good practice that are identified there can be
 disseminated appropriately to colleagues in Psychology. After 12 months (full time, 18 months part
 time), PGRs are expected to have completed a number of quality assurance stages: they must
 secure ethical approval from the Research Ethics Committee, complete a research seminar that
 overviews the project and considers the implications of their empirical strategy, submit a ‘substantial
 piece of work’ (typically a draft literature review and a critically reflexive account of their chosen
 methodology) for review by the supervisory team, and to have successfully defended their research
 plans at a transfer viva chaired by an academic who is independent of the supervisory team. These
 elements allow the team to make a judgement about the candidate’s capacity to work at an
 appropriate level, and provide them with practical experience of justifying their reading of the
 literature and its implications for their own work, both in writing and orally. Subsequently, the
 supervisory team is required to submit an annual report, in consultation with the PGR, which
 provides an opportunity to review progress, identify challenges and agree plans to enable the PGR
 to work towards submission. Additional support is also available from the University’s central Assist,

                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Learning Development and Educational Linguistics teams (see §2.3).

 The university provides project funds of GBP300 per annum for part-time and GBP500 for fulltime
 students that can be used to cover research expenses. The university also offers a number of
 competitive Bursaries, scholarships and awards that are available annually or biannually, such as
 the Chancellors fund, the Dr Mike Daniel Research Degree Scholarship, and the T. D. Lewis
 Scholarship. Psychology PGRs have used such awards to acquire additional laboratory
 equipment, underwrite participant costs in attending research sessions, attend national and
 international conferences, and enable data collection to take place in China. Since 2019, PGRs
 have been able to apply to a Research Environment Enhancement Fund (REEF) designed to help
 them develop employability skills, in preparation for a career in academia or in industry. One of
 the successful applicants to the REEF from Psychology (Nangare) now has an academic
 appointment at Coventry University. UoN is a member of the East Midlands Doctoral Network
 (EMDoc) and the Midlands Doctoral Researcher Forum (MDRF) giving access to an annual
 conference involving the collaboration of nine universities in the East Midlands region allows our
 PGR and their supervisors the opportunity for networking, presenting and wider support.

 The University of Northampton has scored strongly in Advance HE’s Postgraduate Researcher
 Experience Survey (PRES). The University as a whole was ranked 4th overall in 2018, and in 2019
 ranked in the top ten nationally [across 103 HEIs] for 5 of 8 parameters. In 2020 we were ranked
 in the first quartile for all 8 key parameters (Supervision, Resources, Research culture,
 Progression, Responsibilities, Research skills, Professional development, and Overall) and
 ranked number 1 overall in global comparisons with all participating HEIs. At a subject level,
 Psychology recorded a PRES overall satisfaction of 88%, ahead of the national average of 84%
 for the same period consistently scoring better than the national average for 7 of 8 key parameters,
 and better than averages for Post-92 HEIs on all 8 parameters.

 2.3 Equality and diversity

 Psychology have a strong research tradition around critical and inclusive practice, and so is
 especially committed to excellence in terms of equality and inclusion in research practice. The
 University has arrangements that support flexible and/or remote working that is sensitive to individual
 needs. In response to occupational health assessments, specialist office equipment is provided, and
 staff are supported through periods of sick leave and parental leave with phased returns to work and
 flexible working patterns. In practice, colleagues advance this aim through sustained, routine
 activities including, but not limited to:

    1. Ensuring that all local research policies and strategic plans undergo formal Equality Impact
      Assessment; supporting disciplinary colleagues to extend this practice to diverse aspects of
      research, innovation, policy, practice, learning and teaching within the institution; and leading
      collegiate discussions and the enhancement of practice via this process

    2. Leading and supporting regularly-refreshed institutional training on equalities and
      diversities in the workplace, and convening workshops and development on equalities and
      inclusion within diverse educational settings

    3. Constituting a disciplinary ethics committee to offer specialist guidance and development
      regarding equality and inclusion issues staff, PGR and undergraduate research

    4. Working with the Faculty lead on community-building and inclusion to co-develop
      discipline-specific opportunities for colleagues to maintain a community of collaboration
      around inclusion issues and research at local, national and international levels

    5. Enhancing annual Centre reporting processes to evidence the ways in which Psychology
      research demonstrates positive impacts with respect to issues of equality, inclusion, and
      social mobility


                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    6. Continuing to develop discipline-specific training and mentoring processes for social
      change through innovative and impactful research activities and outputs that take account of
      protected characteristics, sociodemographic factors and intersectional identities

 In addition, colleagues participate in a growing number of colleague-led support and advocacy
 groups such as the BAME Staff Network, LGBTQ+ group, and Staff Disability Network. Colleagues
 have also benefited from the University’s Navigator (men and transmasculine) and ‘Springboard+’
 (women, trans and non-binary) staff development programmes for colleagues in academic or
 professional services roles, which enable staff to undertake personal and professional development
 and support for leadership, goal-setting and strategic visioning skills.
 Psychology has a specific and enduring interest in equality and diversity. One of the core themes
 within the CP&SS is a Diversity, Community, Identity group that is actively involved in representation
 and fairness, as reflected, for example, in ESRC and Horizon 2020 funded projects that respectively
 explore the experiences of migrant children (Prokopiou & Farini) and develop bespoke approaches
 to supporting adolescents’ mental health (Yarrum).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 Since the last REF cycle, and despite a competitive external funding environment, the Psychology
 team have increased the number of externally funded projects and the amount of funding they have
 generated for the university. Colleagues are PIs or co-PIs on collaborative projects that have been
 awarded over GBP5,000,000 in external funding since 2014, of which GBP1,343,169 has come to
 UoN. This includes prestigious international awards (Bial Foundation, Horizon 2020, Salvia
 Foundation, and Templeton) and significant national awards (ESRC, NIHR, Trinity College
 Cambridge). These are substantial achievements for a modestly sized discipline with many ECRs,
 and includes a number of colleagues who have bid for and won funding for the first time.

 There have been several faculty and university support mechanisms that have led to an increase
 in numbers of successful bids and income for Psychology. The central Research and Innovation
 Funding Support (RIFS) team provides pre-award support in identifying opportunities, meeting
 application conditions, bid writing, and post award training in project management. The university
 has licensed GRANTfinder and Funding Institutional to help staff identify opportunities that are
 suitable for their level of career experience. Structured support for progressing and monitoring
 bidding activity and post-award support are managed through our current research information
 system (CRIS).

 We have improved our success rate in bidding for both Faculty and University-wide funds (Big
 Ideas Fund, Innovation Fund, URB@N Bursaries, and Seedcorn Funding) that can be used to
 develop new lines of research, establish networks, curate evidence of impact, and support further
 research bidding. These pump priming opportunities form part of a strategy to build proof of
 principle empirical work that provide the foundation for more substantial external grant bids. For
 example, in 2019 Cooper, Saunders and Hitchman were awarded GBP4,950 to procure a flotation
 tank for use in sensory habituation research that has led to a publication and successful bids for
 continuation funding from the Society for Psychical Research (GBP5,382), and the Perrott-Warrick
 Fund, Trinity College Cambridge (GBP60,000). We particularly celebrate that more funding
 successes have come from ECRs bidding for the first time, including from funding sources with
 whom we have not previously been successful. In the last cycle, all major awards were won by two
 professorial level members of staff. Some of the awards in the current cycle, while less lucrative, are
 extremely valuable to us in broadening the research base and diversifying funding streams, so that
 further growth is more sustainable. These have been distributed across the three themes of the
 CP&SS, demonstrating the sustainability of these groups:

 DCI: Prokopiou secured an ESRC multi-site project to explore Separated child migrants' care
 relationships and caring practices (GBP1,000,000 with GBP30,000 to UoN); Prokopiou won a
 joint bid with Farini (Sociology) funding a Horizon 2020 project, Child-Up migrant children’s

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 integration through social participation (GBP170,000).

 HEBC: Yarrum is delivering an NIHR project testing early intervention for depression and anxiety
 in 16-18 year olds (GBP1,600,000 with GBP158,000 coming to UoN); Gulliford is a co-
 researcher for the Oxford character project that aims to develop sustainable, scalable, sector-
 specific programmes for postgraduate character virtue formation (GBP23,000); Gulliford is
 PI/co-PI on a Templeton project investigating the role of exemplar narratives in cultivating
 character (USD1,700,000 with GBP158,000 to UoN).

 EECS: Roe & Cooper formed a collaboration with the Scientific and Medical Network and a
 colleague in Geneva to work on a funded project investigating the phenomenology and impact of
 perceived direct and spontaneous after-death communications (GBP61,000, with GBP15,000 to
 UoN, follow-up funding from the Society for Psychical Research, London of GBP15,000), and a
 further bid to the Bial Foundation, Portugal (EUR41,000) successful in November 2020; Roe is
 principal investigator for a Research Programme to explore the psychology of mediumship, Salvia
 Foundation, Geneva (GBP174,000k); Roe was appointed in 2015 as Perrott-Warrick Senior
 Researcher, a 5-year position funded by Trinity College, University of Cambridge, to deliver a
 project on Extrasensory perception and altered states of consciousness (GBP235,000); Roe &
 Saunders secured funding in 2018 from the Bial Foundation, Portugal, for an experimental
 programme that tests whether Ganzfeld stimulation elicits a shift away from normal waking
 consciousness (€46k); Roe & Sonnex, were awarded funding in 2016 from the Bial Foundation,
 for the project, Extending the spiritual healing paradigm to explore distant mental interaction
 effects with Wiccan healers (€33k).

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 The University has recently invested heavily in its facilities, having completed the move to the
 purpose-built Waterside Campus in 2018 at a total cost of GBP330,000,000. The campus has
 been heralded as the cutting edge of university infrastructure, winning the 2019 Royal Institute for
 Chartered Surveyors’ ‘Design Through Innovation’ award. While it is not possible to attribute a
 precise portion of this investment to Psychology, the department has benefitted from the new
 working environment with state-of-the-art IT infrastructure, new office space and a new library.
 This investment in institutional infrastructure and facilities has been important in the following
 ways:

    1. Colleagues work within flexible academic workspaces that have been purpose-built to foster
       collaborative dialogue and facilitate community-building. Whereas researchers previously
       occupied a silo-like Psychology building, they now share spaces with colleagues within the
       multidisciplinary Faculty of Health, Education & Society. There is evidence of dialogue, bid-
       development and strategic collaborations between the CP&SS and colleagues doing
       cognate work in Sociology, Education, Health, Nursing, Media Studies, Computing and
       Human Geography, supporting an interdisciplinary drive and the co-development of a
       shared strategic vision for research.

    2. The new campus is founded on an award-winning digital technology infrastructure and
       incorporates flexible learning spaces that have improved the learning and research
       experience. More flexible working arrangements have helped staff to protect time set aside
       for research activities such as writing papers or constructing grant bids. Staff were consulted
       during the planning phase of campus construction and specialist research spaces have been
       included that are tailored to the needs of Psychology, including: a suite of 8 research
       cubicles, a sound-attenuated perception laboratory, a psychophysiology ‘wet room’ and an
       interview room that incorporates video recording facilities. A booking scheme is managed by
       a Psychology technician so that facilities are available to all staff and research students as
       needed. The perception labs are equipped with Biopac MP150 Pro with Acqknowledge 4.2
       software enabling EDA, ECG, and Biopac MP30 and MP36 student versions, enabling EEG,
       EDA, plethysmograph, respiration, and blood pressure data collection. Two psychology
       technicians have particular expertise in IT enabling the production of bespoke hardware and

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        software to support research projects. A third technician is a Psychology graduate with
        responsibility for maintaining a repository of licensed and licence-free psychometric
        measures. We have a university licence for Onlinesurveys (formerly Bristol Online Surveys)
        and Psychology has further invested in Qualtrics as a platform for bespoke research
        delivered online.

    3. Staff have access via the library to a wide range of published journals and e-books that are
       searchable using the University’s own search tool, Northampton Electronic Library Search
       Online (NELSON) including materials provided via subscription to the Dawsonera e-book
       provision service. Most materials can be accessed off campus using a University of
       Northampton login. This comprises over 4,000 print titles relating to psychology topics. Key
       resources purchased in support of Psychology, include: CINAHL Plus with Full Text (the
       world's most comprehensive nursing and allied health research database, providing full text
       for more than 770 journals); PsycNET (a key resource for psychology, which brings together
       both PscycInfo and PsycArticles to provide a range of abstracts dating back to the 1800s
       and full-text articles from 63 APA journals); Sage resources, including Sage Journals Online
       and Sage Research Methods; Sage Knowledge eBooks, including collections for
       psychology, counselling and psychotherapy; ScienceDirect, a full-text database of over
       1,000 journal titles from Elsevier.

    4. The PGR community benefits from its own dedicated open office space, which is intended
       to foster a sense of community and belonging. This space has been particularly valued by
       colleagues who also have teaching responsibilities (e.g., GTAs and practitioner staff who
       have registered for L8 qualifications) who can more effectively separate their teaching and
       research responsibilities in a way that protects time for the latter. While the new campus has
       evidently been hugely positive for Psychology PGRs who work on site, we recognize the
       need to have a strategic focus on enhancing the experience of our growing community of
       off-site and international PGR colleagues.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 Colleagues have contributed to a substantial expansion of Psychology’s research base that has
 resulted in high quality collaborations with multidisciplinary colleagues both nationally and
 internationally allowing us to deliver the research activities and income highlighted in §1.1 and §3.1.
 A key objective over this REF period has been to extend — and particularly internationalise — our
 networks of research collaborators and beneficiaries. This can be seen in our funding and publication
 portfolio, which includes partnerships with regional and national service providers (Age UK; Child and
 Adolescent Mental Health Services (CAMHs), Kettering; CAMHS, South Essex Partnership Trust;
 Leicestershire Partnership NHS Trust; National Union of Students; Northampton Borough Council;
 Northamptonshire Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust,) and collaborations with colleagues at other
 UK HEIs (e.g., Lancaster University; Loughborough University; Middlesex University; Open
 University; University College London; University of Birmingham; University of Stirling; University of
 York), and international HEIs (e.g., Aristotle University of Thessaloniki; Bahcesehir University,
 Istanbul; California State University; Charles University, Prague; Chongqing University of Arts and
 Sciences; El Bosque University, Bogotá; Leiden University; Northeastern University, Boston; North
 Sichuan Medical University; Saybrook University, California; Shenzen University; Soﬁa University,
 California; Southwest University; University of Adelaide; University of Bergamo; University of Hong
 Kong; University of Iceland; University of Nebraska-Lincoln; University of New England, NSW;
 University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital; University of Padova; Xinxiang Medical University. Major
 research funding successes also reflect international outreach with a number of awards (e.g.,
 Templeton, NIHR, ESRC, Horizon 2020, Salvia and Bial) reflecting growth and diversification in our
 international networks.

 Where appropriate, staff are affiliated with relevant professional organisations (e.g., BPS and BACP)
 and are actively involved in their management and strategic direction. Roe is currently President of

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Society for Psychical Research (2018-present), International Affiliate for England for the
 Parapsychology Foundation, New York, and sits on the Scientific Board for the Bial Foundation,
 Porto. In the review period he has served as President of the Parapsychological Association 2015-
 2017; Chair of the British Psychological Society Transpersonal Psychology Section, 2015-2018, and
 was a Member of the BPS Research Board and General Assembly (2013-2019). Hitchman is on the
 Board of the Parapsychological Association. Hill is a member of the European Society for Prevention
 Research Award Board, and the BPS Social Psychology Section Committee. Maunder is a member
 of the BPS Psychology of Education Section Committee. Dann is a committee member of the British
 Psychological Society's Psychology of Women & Equalities Section. Cooper is a Council Member of
 the Society for Psychical Research, and sits on the Scientific Advisory Board for the Forever Family
 Foundation (New York, USA), and the Windbridge Research Center (Tucson, USA).

 Staff have taken leading roles related to research dissemination. Roe is Associate Editor of the
 Journal of Parapsychology, Editorial Consultant for the Transpersonal Psychology Review, was
 Editor of the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 2003-2018, and Guest Editor for
 Psychology of Consciousness: Theory, Research, and Practice. Gulliford served as guest editor for
 a special issue for the bilingual journal Zeitschrift für Ethik und Moralphilosophie / Journal for Ethics
 and Moral Philosophy on ‘The Shadow Side of Gratitude’. Hill is a member of the BPS Psychologist
 and Research Digest Editorial Advisory Board and sits on advisory committees for Pearson
 Education and McGraw Hill. Dann is co-editor for the upcoming Talking Bodies Volume III.
 Maunder is a member of the editorial board for Cogent Education. Dann is the editorial assistant for
 the BPS Psychology of Women & Equalities Review. Cooper is on the Review Board for the Journal
 of Exceptional Experiences and Psychology.

 Members of the psychology team also have formal involvement with stakeholder organisations.
 Gulliford is the Psychology Consultant for the Oxford Character Project, and has been a consultant
 for the National Liberty Museum in Philadelphia. She is an Expert Reviewer for John Templeton
 Foundation (JTF). Dann has served as a director for the Northamptonshire Rights & Equalities
 Council. Roe is a grant application reviewer for the Bial Foundation, Porto, and has reviewed for
 the ESRC.

 Staff have given a broad range of national and international keynote addresses, including the
 following: The AZIRE Foundation, New York; Sir Arthur Conan Doyle Society, Edinburgh; Alister
 Hardy Research Experience Centre, University of Wales, Lampeter; International Interdisciplinary
 Symposium, Philosophy of Media: Mythology and Imagination, Cres Croatia; The Norwegian
 Society for Psychical Research, Oslo; MEDNESP – Congresso da Associação Médico-Espírita do
 Brasil, Rio de Janeiro; British Congress on Medicine and Spirituality, London; BPS Consciousness
 & Experiential Section Conference, Regent's University; The Open University Psychology Society,
 Warwick University; The Wilberforce Club, University of Oxford; Parapsychological Association,
 Boulder Colorado; Parapsychological Association, Athens, Greece; the Swedish Society for
 Psychical Research, Stockholm.

 A significant proportion of staff are early career researchers so that expectations about
 involvement in the committee structures of professional bodies may be premature. As an initial
 step in that direction, however, staff are actively encouraged to participate in conference and
 journal quality assurance processes.

 4.2 Contributions to research base, economy and society

 Our mission sets out an agenda to participate in research that has an applied orientation to real-
 world issues around health and wellbeing. A key focus has been on understanding contextual
 determinants for health promotion and health-risk prevention.

 For example, Hill has led a project that has focused on staff and students perceptions of on-
 campus spaces with respect to sexual violence and safety. Project findings have informed the
 University’s new Sexual Harassment, Misconduct and Violence Policy, and led to the development
 of new resources for prevention, reporting, supporting and disclosure of sexual harassment,

                                                                                                  Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 assault and other forms of sexual violence, including revised disclosure processes and campaigns
 (e.g., I [heart] Consent campaign; #neverok campaign). This evidence-based work contributed to
 a briefing presented to the UK Parliament’s Women and Equalities Select Committee. Additionally,
 Hill leads a participatory project in collaboration with Age UK for Northampton Borough Council
 was designed to inform town centre regeneration plans and lead to a Future High Street Funding
 bid to central government. A third strand focuses on the functional significance of certain contexts
 for alcohol-related behaviours and related harms. This work has contributed to a report
 commissioned by the EU Drugs Agency (The European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug
 Addiction, EMCDDA), which focused on environmental prevention measures to limit unhealthy
 and risky substance use behaviours.

 A second strand of research (led by Maunder) draws on existing expertise in mapping and
 responding to the challenges of bullying in the school setting and responds to Department for
 Education (DfE) statutory guidance to schools for relationships education (RE) to be taught as part
 of Personal Social and Health Education (PSHE). Guidance for primary schools stipulates that this
 should cover ‘Caring Friendships’, in which pupils learn the importance of friendships to feelings
 of wellbeing and security, the characteristics of caring and healthy friendships, how to recognise
 unhealthy friendships, and how to deal with conflict within friendships. Maunder’s project concerns
 educating teachers and support workers about the variety of forms that bullying can take, and
 what steps can be taken to resolve them. In collaboration with the PSHE Association, KS2-
 appropriate materials have been developed, including story boards and video material via a
 dedicated YouTube channel, that enable teachers to meet the PSHE syllabus requirements in a
 way that is intended to reduce (particularly subtle) forms of bullying.

 A third strand (led by Roe) concerns the wellbeing impacts of spontaneous anomalous
 experiences, which can be frightening in the short term and existentially challenging in the longer
 term. These effects can be exacerbated by the attributions of others, which suggest they are a
 consequence of (at best) credulity or (at worst) pathology. Building on over 20 years of research,
 Psychologists at Northampton have built collaborative relationships with practitioner communities
 such as the Confederation of Healing Organisations and the Spiritualists’ National Union, to
 educate them in scientific standards of evidence. These collaborations have led directly to policy
 changes within the practitioner organisations. Complementing this, they have worked with mental
 health organisations to ensure that they have a balanced, evidence-based understanding of the
 nature and consequences of such experiences. Details of this work have been presented to the
 Parliamentary Group for Integrated Health, to the BPS Professional Practice Board and the End
 of Life Care Working Party.

 Northampton Psychologists regularly comment on contemporary issues in the media. Cooper has
 given an expert opinion on a range of reports of anomalous experiences, including for the Channel
 4 magazine programme, Steph's packed lunch. Research led by Roe features heavily in a
 documentary, Até ao Fim do Mundo, for Portuguese television produced by Imagens e
 Comunicação, Lda, and in a 6-part Netflix documentary series, Surviving Death. Pourseied is a
 regular contributor to ITV News Anglia on matters related to psychological health and wellbeing.




                                                                                             Page 13
