Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Roehampton
 Unit of Assessment: 34 - Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and Information
 Management
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview
 Media, Culture and Society (MCS) comprises the work of 21 researchers in the School of Arts.
 MCS has grown since 2014, from 14 FTE to 19.9 FTE as a result of strategic investment and the
 integration of colleagues researching video games, audiovisual translation and software theory.
 We have extended our long-standing research focus on media history and theory (Abbott,
 Bainbridge, Brown, Cross, Darke, Esser, Witt) and politics and gender (Appignanesi, Batziou,
 Biressi, Chevalier, Colusso, Gupta, Jermyn, Levasseur, Merrill, Tunney), while developing
 new capacities in digital media and mediations (Bernal-Merino, Frabetti, Kapsaskis, Massidda).
 Our distinctive new research focus on digital media and mediations has investigated the
 interdisciplinary affinities between media studies, translation studies and software studies as a
 means of charting new territory, opening a fresh line of research on media localisation and
 accessibility, and developing our collaborations with industry partners.

 At the time of REF2014, our strategic aims were to consolidate our positions as public intellectuals,
 expand our practice-as-research activities, cultivate international research collaborations, and
 build on our senior researchers’ mature expertise in developing long-term projects. We have kept
 these goals firmly in our sights. In addition to our interventions in the non-academic media, we
 curated events at venues such as the Whitechapel Gallery, BFI Southbank and the Museo
 Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía, Madrid. We increased our investment in practice-led
 research, including through new appointments (e.g. Appignanesi) and our supervision of
 practice-based PGRs, and demonstrated our commitment to developing international
 collaborations by hosting over 30 international Visiting Scholars. We published numerous large-
 scale, field-leading projects, including 12 monographs and five feature-length films (a total of 139
 outputs since 2014), and we invested, in terms of staff time, research effort and financial support,
 in the study of transnational media flows and transmedial translation projects, which grew out of
 AHRC network grants (‘Media Across Borders’, led by Esser in collaboration with Bernal-Merino
 and Iain Smith [left 2016 for KCL] http://mediaacrossborders.com; ‘Translating Music’, led by
 Desblache [retired 2020] with the universities of Macerata [Italy] and Kingston
 http://translatingmusic.com).

 Strategy for research and impact
 We achieved our goals through the implementation of five strategic priorities: increased bidding,
 external engagement, the opening of new areas of research, the application of robust support
 mechanisms for research and researcher development, and the growth of our community of PGRs
 working on innovative projects. Our success in delivering on these priorities can be seen in our
 increased grant capture and our use of these funds to drive research in areas such as film literacy
 in schools, live subtitling and transnational television; our development of collaborative ventures
 with the Freud Museum, Institute of Psychoanalysis and Royal Opera House, and partnerships
 with third sector organisations and industry, including two with Netflix; our cultivation of new lines
 of research in radio, photography, digital media, political journalism, media localisation and
 subtitling, and our support for researchers through research mentoring and their incorporation into
 a rich culture of seminars and symposia. We also invested in the sustainability of our field through
 the recruitment of a significantly larger cohort of high-quality research students, whom we
 integrated fully into our research environment and supported to timely completion (our number of
 completed PGRs doubled compared to REF2014), with many pursuing industry-facing projects
 designed to facilitate the transfer of high-level research skills to industry.

 We sustained our high-profile research in media history and theory through numerous long-form
 outputs, including monographs by Abbott on contemporary representations of vampires and
 zombies (2016), Brown on digital world filmmaking (2018) and cephalopods and cinema (co-
 authored with David Fleming [Stirling], 2020), Rixon [left UK HE 2020] on the history of radio
 criticism (2018), and Darke on La Jetée (2016). Bainbridge consolidated the field of psycho-

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 cultural studies that emerged from the AHRC-funded ‘Media and Inner World Network’ project that
 she led at the time of our REF2014 submission, publishing extensively on the psychodynamics of
 contemporary entanglements between identity, screen media objects and popular culture. Esser
 published a series of articles analysing the wave of post-2000 transnational mergers and
 acquisitions in the television production sector. Cross opened a photographic line of research on
 the found snapshot. Witt edited an expanded edition of The French Cinema Book (2018) with
 Michael Temple (Birkbeck) and published a series of articles re-evaluating Jean-Luc Godard.

 We invested in our politics and gender cluster through four appointments: Batziou (2017), Merrill
 (2017), Appignanesi (2018) and Gupta (2018). Appignanesi released feature documentaries on
 parenthood (2016, co-directed by Devorah Baum [Southampton]) and on gender, female identity
 and creativity (2018). Our strength in practice-as-research on gender attracted outstanding PGR
 students, including AHRC TECHNE student Tulli, whose doctoral film Normal premiered at the
 2019 Berlin International Film Festival before screening extensively internationally. ECR Gupta
 has published a monograph on the representation of the suffragette movement (2016), and co-
 edited The Emergence of Trans: Cultures, Politics and Everyday Lives (2019). Colusso
 published a series of self-reflective articles theorising first-person documentary through reference
 to her own practice. Jermyn focused on gender, feminism, identity and the representation of
 ageing femininities, including in her 2017 monograph on Nancy Meyers. Biressi pursued her
 examination of gender alongside issues of representation, ideology and power. Chanan’s (retired
 2020) contribution to the field of political documentary was celebrated in a 2014 retrospective of
 his work in Mexico City. He subsequently devoted films to the financial crisis (2016) and politics
 of climate change (the AHRC-funded Cuba: Living Between Hurricanes, 2019). We
 incorporated research in journalism and political bias into our portfolio, resulting in Batziou’s work
 on the ideological framing of images of immigrants in the Greek press, Tunney’s examination of
 the op-ed coverage of decentralised governmental power, and Merrill’s 2019 monograph on the
 political content of economic journalism. In a Francophone context, Chevalier analysed the
 cinematic representation of violence, while Levasseur explored France’s crisis of national identity
 as refracted through representations of the banlieue.

 We expanded our new research strand in digital media and mediations through two strategic
 appointments (Frabetti, 2016; Massidda, 2017). Frabetti drew on software studies, cultural
 studies and media philosophy to develop a novel analytical framework for understanding new
 media in her 2014 monograph on software theory. In her 2015 monograph on audiovisual
 translation, Massidda examined the impact of new technologies on translation practices and
 products in relation to localisation workflows, subtitling, Video on Demand, and fansubbing.
 Kapsaskis explored the representation of lingua-cultural difference in film subtitling, developing
 the concept of ‘translational analysis’. Bernal-Merino opened a fresh space of inquiry in his 2015
 book on localisation and translation practices in the gaming industry and, in her multidisciplinary
 2019 book on music as an interpersonal, intercultural instrument of translation, Desblache
 advanced a new framework for thinking about music and translation in relation to one another.

 Since 2014, our strategy to maximise the impact of our research has consisted of: (i) embedding
 industry collaborations and partnerships with non-HE institutions into our projects, including those
 of our PGRs, from their inception: for example, the work of AHRC TECHNE National Productivity
 Investment Fund PGR Artegiani (2017 start), who is researching the role of machine translation
 and multilingual subtitling with industry partner Deluxe Media. This is also evident in our curatorial
 collaborations with leading cultural institutions, including Darke with the Whitechapel Gallery, Witt
 and Chanan with BFI Southbank, Chanan with the Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía,
 and in our impact case study on making film, television and theatre accessible through live
 subtitling, extensive collaborations between Romero-Fresco (left UK HE 2016; honorary
 professor 2016-), industry (Netflix), regulatory bodies (Ofcom) and charities (Stagetext); (ii)
 fulfilling consultancy and advisory roles with industry: for example, Bernal-Merino’s work on the
 adaptation of multimedia interactive entertainment software products for local markets was
 designed from the outset to combine scholarly rigour with real world impact and has been at the
 forefront of international research on video game localisation. Bernal-Merino has been centrally
 involved in the coordination of the field’s key international fora and is the only academic member

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the Advisory Board of the annual Game Global Summit (https://gameglobal.events), which
 brings together the world’s leading video games companies to study localisation issues, as well
 as a mediator between the Academy and industry through his lead role in LocWorld
 (https://locworld.com), the world’s foremost conference on translation, localisation and website
 management; (iii) public engagement and broadcast media: our research has been transmitted
 through regular contributions to the media, including Sight and Sound (Chanan, Witt), Non-Binary
 Lives (Gupta), a blog for L’Express (Chevalier https://blogs.lexpress.fr/london-by-art/about), The
 Indian Express (Abbott), The Guardian (Bainbridge, Appignanesi), and The Sunday Times
 Style Magazine (Abbott). Jermyn and Brown wrote 11 times for The Conversation, while five
 colleagues contributed as interviewees to the national and international media, including The
 Hollywood Reporter, BBC, Sky, Bloomberg, CJAD (Canada), HRT (Croatia), and the pan-South
 American TeleSUR.

 Open research
 Our commitment to open access is exemplified by our OA compliance rate of 92% across all
 journal articles published by MCS since 2014. We also established innovative solutions to open
 research, for example through our provision of annual financial support to the OA journal founded
 by Desblache, JoSTrans, The Journal of Specialised Translation (https://www.jostrans.org), for
 the duration of her editorship (2004-18). The journal brings together scholarship and industry
 through the publication of interviews with professional translators alongside cutting-edge articles
 and dialogues between researchers and industry practitioners (30 video dialogues published
 2014-19). We have also advanced OA standards through our practice-led work, for example in
 2016 the History Workshop Online made Colusso’s film Home Sweet Home and its digital
 extensions available openly (http://www.historyworkshop.org.uk/heygate-estates-stories-home-
 sweet-home-ghost-town),        and    Chanan’s       documentaries      are    free     to    view
 (http://www.mchanan.com/money-puzzles; https://www.livingbetweenhurricanes.org).

 Research integrity
 The School of Arts has a dedicated Ethics Lead, supported by a Unit-level ethics and research
 integrity representative (Chevalier), advising on ethical practices and protocols, who mentors
 applicants and conducts initial evaluations of ethics applications. All MCS members receive
 mandatory training on the University’s Code of Good Research Practice, and those conducting
 funded or collaborative research projects meet the terms of the Concordat to Support Research
 Integrity prior to a project’s commencement. Issues regarding the ethical and professional conduct
 and standards of Unit members’ research are reviewed annually by the School Research Advisory
 Group.

 Future strategic aims
 MCS’s research and impact goals for the next five years, driven by the University’s Research and
 Knowledge Exchange Strategy, are:

    •   to consolidate our interdisciplinary work at the interface of translation and media studies,
        whilst cultivating new synergies with researchers in computing, drama, and dance in the
        School of Arts;
    •   to continue to invest – aligned to mentoring and the targeted use of internal research seed-
        funds – in the development of a diverse community of outstanding researchers, and the
        production of ambitious long-form, large-scale outputs, including practice-led research;
    •   to build on our track record of strong research relationships with non-HE institutions by
        enabling and supporting new collaborations with local, national and international industrial,
        cultural and third sector partners to ensure the maximum benefit of our research to society;
    •   to grow and diversify our research and knowledge exchange (KE) income, through
        collaboration and non-academic partnerships, including Knowledge Transfer Partnerships
        with industry;
    •   to build on excellent supervisory support and a rich environment for our PGR community,
        and – through publications and other contributions to scholarly activity such as conference
        participation – to increase our recruitment of a diverse pool of outstanding PGRs working
        on innovative projects in our areas of core strength.

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The Research and Knowledge Exchange Strategy was launched prior to the effects of the global
 pandemic. However, we remain committed to its delivery, and will take advantage of the
 opportunities afforded by new developments, such as virtual seminars, to further our research.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Since 2014, we have focused on developing the careers of existing colleagues and building
 capacity through the recruitment of six new researchers, including four ECRs, to ensure MCS’s
 long-term vitality and sustainability in areas that consolidate, complement and diversify our core
 research strands. We aligned these appointments with our objectives across outputs, income
 generation, external collaborations and public engagement, based on candidates’ previous
 experience and future plans. ECRs have been supported with ring-fenced workload allowances in
 their first year to help them establish their research trajectory. Evidence of our support for, and
 intensive mentoring of, our ECRs can be seen in the major publications produced since their
 appointment by Appignanesi, Gupta and Merrill. We also ensured that appointments were made
 to maintain core areas of research strength (e.g. Massidda to extend the research/impact work of
 Romero-Fresco) and consolidated our expansion elsewhere by increasing the permanent FTE
 fractions of Kapsaskis and Levasseur.

 Evidence of the success of MCS in developing research leaders can be seen in the volume of
 internal promotions to senior research posts. Our media history and theory strand saw three
 promotions to Professor (Bainbridge, Witt, 2014; Esser, 2017) and three to Reader (Rixon,
 2017; Colusso, 2018; Brown, 2019). These promoted colleagues joined one existing Professor
 (Chanan) and two Readers (Abbott, Jermyn) in this cluster. As Colusso’s promotion to Reader,
 and Levasseur’s progression to Senior Lecturer demonstrate, the career progression for staff on
 fractional contracts has been actively supported. Bainbridge and Esser joined Chanan to provide
 clear succession planning in research leadership in media history/theory. Desblache was
 promoted to Professor in 2014, leading expansion of our activity in digital media and mediations,
 while Biressi was appointed to a Chair in 2015, leading our research in politics and gender.

 All staff returned to this unit are on permanent contracts. MCS members are supported by a
 generous research workload allocation and a one term in three-years sabbatical. We have
 invested in 39 sabbaticals for research staff since 2014, which has underpinned the production of
 long-form outputs by Abbott, Bernal-Merino, Brown, Chanan, Darke, Desblache, Jermyn and
 Rixon. We have actively supported blended careers in academia and industry (e.g. Colusso)
 through fractional posts. Research Mentoring has been key in supporting and developing research
 and impact as well as ensuring robust succession planning for colleagues who retired. All
 colleagues were mentored to support them in developing bids and partnerships, and to ensure
 that they capitalised on impact/KE opportunities through the forging of links with bodies outside
 HE. A senior mentor (Professor or Reader) was appointed for all new staff, and all staff, including
 ECRs, were assisted by their mentor in identifying and delivering on research objectives including
 publications, impact/KE, collaborations, bidding, PGR supervision, and research leadership in a
 five-year plan which they discussed and shared with their mentor and refreshed annually. Mentors
 also supported mentees by reviewing draft manuscripts and funding applications. Each mentor
 had two to three mentees; when a mentor was on sabbatical, a replacement was appointed. All
 Professors (Bainbridge, Biressi, Esser, Witt), former Professors (Chanan, Desblache, Ros
 Coward [left 2016], Heather Nunn [retired 2016]), Readers (Abbott, Brown, Colusso, Jermyn),
 and former Readers (Rixon, Romero-Fresco) mentored junior colleagues; all Readers were
 mentored by Professors; and Professors were paired with a peer at their level.

 Research mentoring complemented the annual appraisal cycle, with line managers and mentors
 working together to identify training needs and facilitate research activity, and further support
 provided by the Head of School and Research and Knowledge Exchange Lead. Since 2014, we
 have strengthened our strategy for researcher development in response to staff feedback and
 through central support. Research funds (£45,000 average p.a. for MCS) have been awarded in

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 response to staff need, and colleagues were able to bid for money to support projects from pump-
 priming to completion. Priority was given to activities leading to high-quality outputs and impact,
 and included support for site/archive visits, translation, data transcription, and conference
 participation. Reward for research performance was primarily delivered through promotion, which
 was benchmarked against clear expectations for academic roles, pro-rata for fractional and part-
 time staff. All new staff were supported through a probationary period with clear objectives in
 relation to research, regular meetings with mentors and line managers and additional workload
 allocations to support their integration into the unit.

 We systematically brought MCS members together around shared activities and events with a
 view to strengthening our research culture while supporting the personal and professional
 wellbeing of staff and PGRs. We introduced initiatives, including an annual writing retreat, from
 2017, over five days at Ashburnham Estate (Surrey), providing colleagues and PGRs with quality
 time for writing and the development of collaborative bids/projects. All MCS members contributed
 to a programme of work-in-progress sessions and seminars. These afforded colleagues the
 opportunity to hone and critically discuss their research in advance of public dissemination. We
 ran a programme of symposia, providing staff with a further opportunity to test their ideas, hosted
 external speakers, and involved our ECRs and PGRs. Examples include ‘Women and the TV
 Vampire’ (2015) and ‘Fashioning Identities: Lifestyle, Emotions and Celebrity Culture’ (2019).
 These symposia, and the publications they often fed into, afforded our PGRs the opportunity to
 gain valuable conference experience and publication opportunities. The book
 Love Across the Atlantic: US-UK Romance in Popular Culture (co-ed. Jermyn, 2019),
 resulted from a collaborative 2017 symposium with the University of Alabama hosted by MCS,
 and includes chapters by three colleagues alongside others, and by PGRs Bamber and Weidhase.

 PGR students
 Our resilience and sustainability depend on our thriving community of PGRs, whom we view as
 colleagues and continue to treat as a priority. We supervised 18 PGRs to completion and have 30
 continuing students. Four of those who completed (Abbasian, Dawson, Tulli, McIver) were funded
 through TECHNE AHRC scholarships, while four (Weidhase, Rifeser, Chimbuto, Daniluk) were
 supported by competitive VC Studentships. We also benefited from the Roehampton University
 Sacred Heart competition (Chimbuto) and worked closely with self-funding students to facilitate
 successful applications for funding support (successes include Dawson). Internal PGR funding
 (fee waivers, bursaries, scholarships) won by our students totalled £300,600, while our TECHNE
 AHRC scholarships came to over £546,700. These funds played a central role in enabling us to
 sustain and enrich the vitality of our PGR culture. PGR recruitment was facilitated through open
 competition for all funded opportunities. PGRs were able to approach the Graduate School to
 identify appropriate supervisory teams and all PGR applications were supported by the Research
 Degrees Convenor and the Head of Department. PGRs were accepted only where there was
 appropriate staff expertise, on projects relating to our areas of core strength and when recruiting
 PGRs, we implemented polices relating to discrimination, equality and diversity, working closely
 where necessary with Disability Services to ensure that students were fully supported. PGRs were
 directed by teams of at least two supervisors, including a Director of Studies (DoS) responsible
 for overseeing and documenting supervisions, progression, and the completion of key milestones.
 We successfully grew our supervisory capacity: there were 16 DoSs in MCS since 2014, including
 five newly qualified in the role, while a further three (Bernal-Merino, Gupta, Massidda) are co-
 supervising their first PGR.

 Numerous MCS members participated in the TECHNE peer review college, with Brown assuming
 the Chair of the TECHNE Training Group in 2019. Our TECHNE students enjoyed an enviable
 range of training and networking opportunities across the consortium’s nine member universities,
 including seminars, workshops and the possibility of collaborating with 15 non-HE partners.
 Complementing Graduate School training provision, we provided specialist research methods and
 impact training. Our TECHNE PGRs maintained a Learning and Development Log, successful
 completion of which led to the award of a Researcher Development Certificate. The latter also had
 access to £2,000 additional provision and potential scholarship extensions of 6-12 months.


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our PGRs were fully involved in the annual Roehampton PGR Conference (students Rifeser and
 Azariane co-organised the event in 2016 and 2020 respectively). They also contributed to the
 organisation of, and delivered papers at, symposia organised by MCS members. Student McIver
 co-organised the 2017 TECHNE Conference, while student Rifeser organised a symposium on
 Irigaray at the ICA (2017). International PGRs regularly visited us, benefitting from and contributing
 to our research culture. All our PGRs participated in the PGR Forum, an MCS-based student-run
 initiative designed to build confidence and community and provide a regular opportunity for sharing
 and discussing research-in-progress. The MCS PGR Lead, Jermyn, met regularly with Forum
 representatives to talk through any issues arising from within our PGR community, and to
 brainstorm ways in which these might be addressed.

 Our PGRs enjoyed robust support for their personal development in terms of scholarship
 and employability. They were encouraged to participate in PGR Networks (Media, Communication
 and Cultural Studies Association [MeCCSA], British Association of Film, Television and Screen
 Studies [BAFTSS]), and to deliver conference papers. They were also supported to take on
 appropriate levels of teaching, while ensuring that their research time was protected, and to
 undertake various intern-type activities (e.g. assistance with journal work, on film productions, in
 conference planning). We encouraged our PGRs to enrol on the SEDA-accredited Introduction to
 Learning and Teaching course offered free by the University, which provides opportunities for paid
 academic mentoring to UGs and leads to Associate Fellowship in the Higher Education Academy,
 and mentored them closely before and after completion in navigating the job market. Many of
 those who completed and wished to pursue careers in academia were successful in securing
 lecturing or post-doc positions (e.g., Weidhase [Bournemouth], Chen [Shanghai Maritime
 University], Thomadaki [Roehampton], Rifeser [Goldsmiths], Dawson [Surrey]). Since March
 2020, we have added further levels of support for all PGRs to help them through the pandemic.
 This has included funded extensions, extra academic and pastoral support when required, and
 the revision of research topics where necessary.

 Equality and diversity
 MCS implements relevant University policies and legislation relating to equality, diversity and anti-
 discrimination, including flexible working arrangements (e.g., temporary reductions in contract,
 scheduling of activities to accommodate travel restrictions). The attention accorded trans, non-
 binary and intersex equality in the University's 2018 policy was particularly welcomed by MCS
 colleagues, who are currently working with HR to develop appropriate anti-racism interventions
 and support an institution-wide roll out of unconscious bias training. Management, including
 Research and KE Leads and Research Mentors, are all trained in EDI and work to ensure that
 promotion, sabbatical and funding decisions are made equitably. MCS members can also seek
 the support of HR and Working Relationship Advisors (colleagues across the University trained to
 support staff in cases of discrimination, bullying or difficult working situations).

 The Research and KE Lead and PGR Lead work with senior management to identify and address
 the needs of colleagues and PGRs to ensure they are supported by University services (HR,
 Graduate School, Staff Wellbeing, Student Wellbeing), as well as providing bespoke support, for
 example, the allocation of duties, timing of work, relieving pressures of internal deadlines and
 ensuring that workspaces are appropriate. We employ Occupational Health Assessments to
 inform areas such as work times, workload, office spaces and equipment, and home working set
 ups, including when colleagues are returning from sick leave. All incoming staff undertake
 mandatory Diversity in the Workplace training as part of their induction, and existing staff are
 encouraged to take the training, with completion rates closely monitored. Periods of parental
 leave, caring duties, illness or other personal circumstances are carefully considered when
 determining staff research workload and assessing applications for internal research funds. Where
 feasible in these situations, teaching duties are shifted or some teaching/administrative duties
 relieved, to ensure more substantial blocks of research time. For those returning from significant
 periods of parental leave, a sabbatical immediately before or in the year of return is provided to
 sustain research progression. We are also careful to timetable research seminars and symposia
 whenever possible to enable staff with family or other caring commitments to participate. Staff
 wellbeing is delivered through our college system. All staff are affiliated to one of our four colleges,

                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 who provide research events, community building opportunities, and dedicated Wellbeing Officers
 for staff. All staff and PGRs have been offered mental health first aid training in 2020, whilst
 dedicated research staff and PGR wellbeing sessions have been delivered on mental health.

 Research staff who identify as female were strongly represented in MCS (57%). This was
 particularly true in leadership roles. Five were promoted internally to Professor in the cycle, with
 female-identifying researchers comprising 71% (5/7) of the Unit’s professoriate in 2020, a figure
 that we will seek to maintain in the coming years through training and mentoring. The number of
 individuals from diverse backgrounds employed as researchers nationally, including in the areas
 covered by UoA34 generally, and MCS in particular, is insufficiently representative of our UG
 cohort or our city. 19% of Unit members identify as LGBTQI+, and while six different nationalities
 were represented, only 5% declared as BAME. We sought to promote inclusivity and improve our
 EDI profile through our recruitment strategy and were successful in recruiting excellent applicants
 from the emerging generation of scholars who self-identify as BAME, who now represent 33% of
 Lecturers in MCS. We are committed to increasing the representativeness of our staff base further,
 and to developing diverse talent among our PGRs and ECRs through mentoring our current pool
 of BAME-identifying PGRs and Lecturers to ensure that they advance swiftly in their careers. The
 percentage of outputs selected for submission from our BAME-identifying staff was 5% higher
 than the percentage represented by that group within MCS.

 Our process for the selection of outputs for REF2021 was conducted alongside robust equality
 and diversity analyses to ensure decisions had no adverse effect on staff with protected
 characteristics. The gender representation across our 50 submitted outputs are almost identical,
 with 48% outputs attributed to female and 52% to male staff, while 12% of outputs are authored
 by LGBTQ+ staff and 4% by BAME colleagues. We have striven for an inclusive submission by
 authors of all career levels, with 6% of the outputs authored by Lecturers, 28% Senior Lecturers,
 28% Readers and 34% by Professors.

 We used our recruitment strategy to expand our expertise in the field of ‘otherness’ (Batziou), and
 to bolster our strength in feminist, queer and trans media/cultural studies (Frabetti, Gupta).
 Besides bringing fresh expertise in queer and trans studies, Gupta brought valuable experience
 of delivering training on transgender awareness. Prior to joining us, they trained LGBTQ+ network
 switchboard volunteers, worked with various bodies on trans employee policy, with the Race
 Equality Foundation on the experiences of BAME trans people, and with Stonewall on trans
 inclusion. Since joining, they have shared this expertise via the Mentor Match Up scheme for
 BAME trans and non-binary young people, developed a trans awareness workshop for employees,
 and co-authored an article on de-biasing universities
 (https://www.emerald.com/insight/content/doi/10.1108/RSR-10-2019-0075/full/html).

 All colleagues involved in recruitment received unconscious bias and EDI training. Staff and
 students also engaged with EDI issues through MCS’s research specialisms, and at School level,
 UG/PGT programme design was systematically informed by a research-led drive to decolonise
 the curriculum, which was underpinned by the postcolonial approaches of researchers such as
 Brown, Kapsaskis, Levasseur and Chevalier. Our attentiveness to gender disparities was
 evident in the work of Bainbridge, Jermyn and Biressi.

 We are committed to further addressing the sector-wide structural issues around research career
 paths for underrepresented groups and are currently exploring mechanisms whereby we can
 support our PGRs who identify as BAME, who comprise 43% of our continuing PGR cohort, to
 make the transition to ECR. Our future advertising and hiring strategies will continue to strongly
 encourage applications from a culturally diverse constituency of applicants, and to highlight
 research specialisms pertaining to those issues (e.g. postcolonial, feminist, and neurodiverse
 perspectives on the field).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Bid development is supported through workshops and close mentoring within MCS. Eight MCS
 members were supported through the allocation of internal pump-priming funds to develop
 projects designed to realise our strategic aim of extending our international research networks in
 our three research strands. Jermyn, for example, was awarded three such grants to support her
 work in feminist media studies, which enabled her to facilitate the Society for Cinema and Media
 Studies (SCMS) Women’s mentorship programme at the 2014 SCMS conference and bring
 together an international community of researchers at Roehampton in 2017 at the ‘Love Across
 the Atlantic’ conference. She was also awarded a MeCCSA Women’s Media Studies Network
 grant to support the organisation of an international conference on Sex and the City at
 Roehampton in 2014. These initiatives served to forge enduring international links, and to make a
 significant contribution to our ‘politics and gender’ strand through the publication by Jermyn of
 articles, edited volumes and a monograph. Brown was awarded two pump-priming grants to
 support his research on ‘non-cinema’ and the relationship between media and cephalopods, which
 he expanded through international collaboration in his capacity as Co-I on a three-year (2017-20)
 grant of CA$200,000+ from the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council Partnership
 Development scheme in Canada. The PI on this project was Prof. Christine Daigle (Brock
 University, Canada), who used the funding to set up the Posthumanism Research Institute, now
 a major international centre for posthumanist thinking (https://brocku.ca/pri). Brown’s work in this
 field fed into extensive public engagement activities and numerous articles and book chapters,
 culminating in his two substantial monographs (2018, 2020) in our ‘media history and theory’
 strand.

 Other senior MCS researchers drew on external funding to pursue international collaborations.
 Esser, for example, used a £34,955 Guest Researcher grant from Aarhus University to collaborate
 on a DKK and AU Ideas project titled ‘What Makes Danish TV Drama Series Travel?’ (2014-18),
 which fed into her numerous publications in our media history and theory strand on transnational
 television. Similarly, in our digital media and mediations strand, Romero-Fresco won £12,655
 from the European Commission Creative Europe (2014-20) Programme for the ‘FRED at school’
 project, through which he sought to increase film literacy in secondary schools across Europe by
 supporting the inclusion of European films in their curricula and organising debates around them.
 He was also awarded £13,599 from the Nesta foundation and Stagetext, a charity established in
 2002 with which he collaborated closely in the development of captioning and live subtitling
 services for theatres and other arts venues. These grants were instrumental in enabling him to
 develop and test his highly influential NER subtitling quality assessment model (see Impact Case
 Study). Following his study of visual memory in Chile, supported by a British Academy Small
 Grant, Chanan took our politics and gender strand in an environmental direction through his
 contribution as Co-I on a £35,860 AHRC Research Networking grant (PI Prof. Jean Stubbs, School
 of Advanced Study), a collaboration with the Commodities of Empire British Academy project at
 the SAS and Fundación Núñez Jiménez de la Naturaleza y el Hombre in Cuba, which resulted in
 his 2019 documentary film Cuba: Living Between Hurricanes on ecological issues in a Cuban
 fishing port devastated by Hurricane Irma in 2017. This line of practice-led environmental research
 is currently being pursued by Appignanesi, who won a £15,000 Arts Council England grant in
 2020 to develop a new feature documentary on climate change. Our commitment to continuing to
 support the production of long-form outputs arising from individual research interests is evidenced
 in Witt’s Leverhulme Research Fellowship, which he will take up in 2021.

 The most significant investment in MCS is evident in two key areas: staffing, and the construction
 of the 2000m2 Sir David Bell digital media centre (opened 2019), which was extended and entirely
 refurbished at a cost of over £13m (https://www.roehampton.ac.uk/media-culture-and-
 language/media-centre). The facilities were designed as step-free and fully accessible, including
 the 95-seat cinema. MCS has benefitted significantly from this investment in physical
 infrastructure, and now occupies the majority of the new centre. The building provides an
 outstanding venue for research events and encounters, and is equipped with industry-level
 equipment in all areas covered by MCS, including digital media, film/TV, photography, AV
 translation and journalism. Besides the cinema, the facilities include extensive exhibition and
 conference/event spaces, six studios (including a new sound stage and film studio), two audio
 recording studios, two newsrooms, nine computer labs (Mac and PC), a video game localisation

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 laboratory, 13 cutting rooms, and wide-ranging specialist IT provision (e.g. AV editing, Adobe CC,
 and cloud-based subtitling software for researchers in AV translation). Dedicated space for PGRs
 is also included. Although Covid-19 interrupted our plans, over the coming years we will make the
 most of these new facilities – especially the cinema and exhibition/conference spaces – as a
 means of disseminating the practice-based work of MCS, and forging links with and exhibiting the
 visual and audiovisual research of guest researchers and industry practitioners. We will also use
 the cutting-edge nature of the spaces and equipment to attract high quality PGRs working on
 innovative practice-based projects, to explore new avenues for funding and collaborations with the
 commercial AV sector, to increase grant capture by developing creative bids that incorporate use
 of the production and exhibition capacity of the new spaces and technology, and to maximise the
 impact of our research by using the cinema and exhibition spaces as conduits for connecting with
 a broad non-academic public.

 Researchers and PGRs in MCS have already benefitted since 2014 from an array of cutting-edge
 hardware, software (e.g. Adobe CC) and technical support services. They can order in BUFVC
 material and use the extensive electronic resources, databases and archives housed in the
 University’s new Library. Facilities available to practice-led researchers, and used extensively by
 our documentary filmmakers, include cameras (Sony FS7, Sony FS5 MKII, Panasonic DVX 200,
 Sony A7SII, Panasonic GH4), lights, sound kits, film studios, a dedicated sound studio, and cutting
 rooms equipped with the latest Macs running Final Cut Pro X and DaVinci Resolve Studio with
 Blackmagic design grading panels and Eizo 4K grading monitors. Recent additions to our lighting
 kits include lightweight Dedo lamps and LED panels (both specialist units designed for
 documentary work), together with portable Rotolights that can be used on-camera. We also have
 a range of Tripods, Monopods, Jibs and sliders. Full training and support by specialist technicians
 are provided on all equipment.

 Our research also gave rise to a range of benefits-in-kind. For example, Massidda’s collaboration
 with the subtitling company OOONA (https://ooonatools.tv) on the development of educational
 cloud-based platforms led to agreements that provided us with 12 free OOONA licences in both
 2018 and 2020, with a total value of £68,612. In addition, the industry partnerships she developed
 in 2018 with video captioning and translating firms Dotsub (https://dotsub.com) and CaptionHub
 (https://www.captionhub.com) included similar licence agreements worth approximately a further
 £68K. Bernal-Merino’s research on video game localisation led to a steady stream of guest
 speakers from the gaming industry (e.g. Disney Interactive, Square Enix, PlayStation), who gave
 their time freely, as well as the donation of games (value £2,500), which are available for research
 purposes in the dedicated gaming localisation laboratory in our new media centre.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Networks
 We have helped shape the development and future of our field globally through leadership roles
 in international networks. As noted, Brown was involved in establishing Brock University’s
 Posthumanism Research Institute, delivering a keynote at its founding symposium. Since 2019,
 Bainbridge – Scholar-in-Residence that year at the American Psychoanalytic Association Annual
 Meeting, NYC – has led a group of eight psychoanalysts and academics in Mexico City, California
 and the UK on a project titled ‘Mediated Minds: The Psychic Life of Screen Culture’. Meanwhile,
 Esser and Desblache provided leadership in television studies (Esser’s directorship of the AHRC
 ‘Media Across Borders [MAB] Network’) and translation studies (Desblache’s directorship of the
 AHRC Translating Music Network). The work of MAB flourished throughout the cycle, generating
 numerous initiatives and outcomes, including a 2-day conference (2015) and a collection (Media
 Across Borders: Localizing TV, Film and Video Games , 2016, edited by Esser, Bernal-
 Merino, and Iain Smith [KCL]). MAB attracted a stream of visiting PGRs and scholars (e.g. Prof.
 Edward Larkey, Maryland; Prof. Enrique Uribe-Jongbloed, Colombia), and Esser’s work led to
 invitations to share her research with industry bodies and their audiences. At home, Esser
 presented to Ofcom and industry executives on the changing screen ecology, while abroad she
 gave talks to industry/policy bodies such as the Danish creative industries association Creative
 Mornings (2015), Germany’s media regulator Landeszentrale für Medien und Kommunikation

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Rheinland-Pfalz (2016), the Brussels International TV Series Festival (2017), and the German
 Chamber of Commerce (2017). She was also consultant on projects funded by the Danish
 Research Council (2013-18), KOCCA (South Korea, 2015-16), ESRC (Glasgow, 2017-20), and
 Horizon 2020 (Bologna, 2018-21).

 International collaborations
 MCS members made substantial contributions to international debate, consolidating international
 relationships through nine stays as Visiting Scholars at institutions in Australia, China, France,
 Greece, New Zealand, and the USA. Brown spent three periods abroad: VS at the University of
 California Los Angeles (2014); RKE VS at the University of Nottingham Ningbo, China (2015); and
 Brown Foundation Fellow at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, for a residency at the Dora Maar
 House, Ménerbes (2015). We hosted over 30 international VSs, including prominent figures such
 as Prof. Cezar Migliorin, President of the Brazilian Society of Cinema and Audiovisual Studies,
 who spent a year with us.

 Our work has been recognised through invitations to join international research centres. This
 facilitated research visits by staff in both directions. Frabetti is Senior Affiliate Researcher at the
 Humanities and Critical Code Studies Laboratory at the University of Southern California
 (http://haccslab.com); Esser is a member of Aarhus University’s Centre for Transnational Media
 Research; Abbott is an Advisory Board Member of the Popular Culture Research Centre at
 Auckland University of Technology; and Chevalier is Associate Member of Université d’Avignon’s
 postcolonial Identité Culturelle Textes et Théâtralité centre.

 Conference organisation
 We brought together colleagues and audiences around the globe, and advanced thinking in our
 core research areas, through the organisation of conferences in Turkey (2015), Argentina (2017),
 Italy (2017), and Denmark (2018). We also hosted the 2014 ‘Journal of Media Practice
 conference’, and organised four international conferences at Roehampton on transnational
 cinema, genre and gender, Sex in the City, and postcolonial culture. The latter was one of a series
 of annual symposia on postcolonial studies organised by Chevalier since 2013 with colleagues at
 the universities of Lyon III, Saint-Étienne and Westminster. We also staged a further five
 conferences elsewhere in the UK, including three organised by Bainbridge on psychoanalytic
 approaches to media in association with the Freud Museum (2014), International Association of
 Forensic Psychotherapy (2015), and the International Journal of Psychoanalysis (2018).

 Leadership of professional associations
 We contribute extensively to the research base through our work with professional associations.
 For example, Jermyn has been a member of the Board of Console-ing Passions (the International
 Conference on Television, Video, Audio, New Media and Feminism) since 2015, a Committee
 member of the MeCCSA Women’s Media Studies Network since 2015 (Deputy Chair 2017-18), a
 Committee member of the Women’s Film and Television History Network since 2015, and a
 mentor for the Women’s Caucus, SCMS. Our contribution to our field has been recognised too
 through our election to lead roles in professional bodies. Abbott was President of the Whedon
 Studies Association (2014-16), while Biressi was MeCCSA Vice-Chair (2017-18) and then Chair
 (2018-ongoing). In this role, she has the important task of leading the national body responsible
 for raising public understanding of our field, fostering research within it, and advising funding
 councils and other national and international bodies. She was also a commissioner of and
 contributor      to    the    LSE     gender      inequality    report    (>4,900     downloads:
 http://eprints.lse.ac.uk/66802/).

 PhD examining
 We contribute to the vitality and sustainability of our field through extensive PhD examining work:
 13 of us have examined 67 PhDs, including 17 abroad in nine different countries, since 2014.

 Editorial activities
 We are instrumental in shaping the direction of current and future work through our editorial
 activities. MCS members occupy four book series editorships (I.B. Tauris, Karnac

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Books/Routledge, Edinburgh University Press, Peter Lang), and four advisory series editorial
 board memberships. Two Unit members edited journals: as noted, Desblache edited JoSTrans,
 The Journal of Specialised Translation (2004-18), while Bainbridge edited Free Associations
 (2010-17). We have fulfilled editorial and advisory board roles on over 30 further journals, including
 Critical Studies in Television (Abbott), Journal of Gender Studies (Biressi), Revista Belas Infiéis
 (Bernal-Merino), Film-Philosophy (Brown), Journal of Media & Education (Colusso), Journal of
 Data Mining and Digital Humanities (Frabetti), and French Screen Studies (Witt). We have also
 edited special issues of journals such as Horror Studies (Abbott), Celebrity Studies (Jermyn),
 JoSTrans (Kapsaskis), and VIEW: Journal of European Television History and Culture (Esser).

 Peer review
 Evidence of our contribution to shaping our field is visible in our wide-ranging peer review work for
 journals, publishers, funding bodies and other universities. MCS members have reviewed
 submissions to over 130 scholarly journals, together with book proposals and manuscripts for over
 20 book publishers, including Cambridge University Press, Oxford University Press, Columbia
 University Press, and MIT Press. Three Unit members are AHRC Peer Review College members
 (Bainbridge, Biressi, Esser), while others have reviewed grant applications to bodies such as
 the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada (Desblache), South African
 National Research Foundation (Kapsaskis), and Israel Science Foundation (Rixon). Lastly, we
 have assessed eight tenure and other senior appointment/promotion applications for other
 universities.

 Keynotes
 The significance of our research is demonstrated by the regularity with which we are invited to
 deliver conference keynotes, many on an international stage. Between us we have given 46
 keynotes in Europe, Brazil, Canada, USA, New Zealand, Qatar, Mexico, Cyprus, and Algeria.

 Contributions to the economy and society
 The economic and social impact of our work is driven by a long-standing commitment to active
 collaboration with partners ranging from significant industry players to innovative start-ups,
 charities and civic organisations. Romero-Fresco’s work on live subtitling has transformed the
 experience of audiovisual media and live arts events for millions of people globally as a result of
 the widespread adoption by government regulators and broadcasters of the NER subtitling quality
 assessment model that he developed, of the incorporation of his research into Stagetext's
 CaptionCue software, and of the influence of his work on the audio-description guidelines and
 filmmaking practices at Netflix.

 The Act of Killing (2012), on which Michael Uwemedimo (left UK HE 2016) worked as producer,
 has continued since 2014 to influence documentary practice internationally and inform and
 influence international policy debates and societal changes in Indonesia and the USA. Institutions
 and individuals that have engaged with the film since 2014 include the Indonesian Government's
 National Human Rights Commission, the International People's Tribunal 1965, the Indonesian
 government, and US senator Tom Udall. In their 2014 The Impact Field Guide & Toolkit, the Doc
 Society selected The Act of Killing as the subject of an impact case study. This toolkit has been
 used by over 55,000 filmmakers and translated into Spanish, Arabic and Portuguese.

 Appignanesi’s films The New Man (2016) (http://www.joshappignanesi.com/THE-NEW-MAN-1)
 and Female Human Animal (2019) (http://www.femalehumananimal.com/) made strong
 interventions in discussions around parenthood and female identity and creativity. Funded by the
 Wellcome Trust, and in partnership with charities such as Best Beginnings, CALM, and Birds Eye
 View, The New Man was released theatrically in over 25 UK sites, achieving over 2,000,000
 Twitter impressions per week in its first four weeks. Female Human Animal, supported by two Arts
 Council England grants, was released theatrically in 20 UK and two US cinemas and distributed
 online in over 200 territories via MUBI, Amazon and BFI Player. Both were extensively reviewed
 in the media, with Appignanesi making guest appearances on Newsnight, Radio 4 and BBC
 Radio London.


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 MCS continues to advance its social and economic mission, and the contribution of our research
 is also evident in our consultancy roles and collaborations with industry and the cultural sector.
 Massidda worked as a consultant for Netflix on their Hermes subtitling project, which tested
 subtitles in 25 languages prior to their hiring subtitlers and launching in 188 territories. Besides
 her industry partnerships with OOONA (she is an OOONA Official Academic Instructor), Dotsub,
 and CaptionHub (see above), she gave guest lectures on her research to industry bodies such as
 MESA Europe (Media and Entertainment Services Alliance), and for several years has delivered
 professional courses on Cloud Subtitling and Professional Skills for Subtitlers at the Centre for
 Translation Studies (CenTraS) at UCL, where she is Honorary Research Associate.

 Our collaborations with the cultural sector have helped preserve rare audiovisual materials,
 shaped the curatorial practices of leading cultural institutions, influenced the critical re-appraisal
 of and public discourse on significant bodies of work from film history, and engaged diverse non-
 academic audiences. Darke co-curated and co-edited the catalogue for the three-month Marker
 exhibition at the Whitechapel Gallery in 2014 (>70,000 visitors). This was the first UK Marker
 retrospective, and the first show globally to engage with the full range of his output. Witt co-curated
 with Michael Temple (Birkbeck) a three-month Godard retrospective for BFI Southbank in 2016,
 provided the BFI with copies of rare films from his (Witt's) personal collection that had not been
 screened previously in the UK, and shaped the understanding of Godard’s work on the part of the
 BFI’s audience (>15,500 attendees). Chanan collaborated with the Cinemateca de Cuba and
 Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía to curate the ‘Por un cine imposible. Documental y
 vanguardia en Cuba (1959-72)’ retrospective for the Reina Sofía, which toured to five further
 European venues, including DocLisboa (Lisbon), the Filmoteca de Catalunya and BFI Southbank.
 His exhumation of the films for this project led to a selection of them being broadcast on Cuban
 TV in 2016, thereby facilitating the rediscovery by a sizeable Cuban audience.

 MCS members made a substantial cultural contribution via their work as jury members for film
 festivals and arts organisations. Four Unit members occupied seven such positions, including at
 the Havana International Film Festival (Chanan, 2016), Rome International MedFilm Festival
 (Colusso, 2015), London Kurdish Film Festival (Brown, 2020), and UK National Open Art
 competition (Witt, 2015). Furthermore, Chanan was President of the Documentary Jury at the
 2018 London Kurdish Film Festival.

 We are frequently invited to give guest lectures at cultural and industry venues, both nationally
 and internationally. Domestically, we have contributed to the vitality of the UK arts sector through
 the delivery of over 40 guest talks at venues such as the Almeida Theatre, Freud Museum,
 European Psychoanalytic Film Festival, BAFTA, British Library, Horse Hospital, National Media
 Museum, Tavistock Centre, Institut français, Tate Modern, Ritzy cinema, Whitechapel Gallery,
 Wilkinson Gallery, House of Vans, Cinema Museum, Being Human Festival of the Humanities,
 The Southbank Centre’s ‘Being a Man’ Festival, Fertility Festival, and Women Over 50 Film
 Festival.

 We enjoy a particularly close relationship with BFI Southbank. Beyond the film seasons we have
 curated there, we have collaborated closely with this crucial London institution on numerous other
 projects as a means of ensuring that its work is informed by the latest research. Six of us have
 contributed as regular guest speakers at public events at BFI Southbank, including Brown, who
 since 2015 has spoken at 12 BFI Philosophical Screens fora.

 In an international context, 13 of us gave over 47 guest lectures in 24 countries, not including the
 many talks that MCS’s filmmakers gave before and after international screenings of their films at
 festivals in Europe, America and Latin America. To give two examples: Brown delivered talks at
 film festivals in Lithuania (2014), Macedonia (2015), and Portugal (annually 2016-19), while Witt
 gave invited talks at the Toronto International Film Festival (2014), Film Mutations Festival, Croatia
 (2015), cultural centres across Brazil (2015), the Pompidou Centre (2016), and the Cinémathèque
 française (2020).



                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Looking forward, we will seek to build on our achievements by exploiting the intermedial research
 possibilities at the interface of still and moving image practices, digital media, exhibition and
 curation opened up by our new multimedia facilities. We will also seek to embed the use of this
 new infrastructure in future local, national and international research and KE partnerships and
 collaborations. In addition, we will capitalise on the research synergies in the School of Arts
 between MCS colleagues and researchers in the adjacent fields of drama, dance and computing,
 with a view to developing new interdisciplinary dialogues and projects, and with the ultimate goal
 of further extending and deepening our contribution to the betterment of society and enrichment
 of culture in London, the UK and internationally.




                                                                                           Page 13
