Annex I: Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: Durham University

 Unit of assessment: Politics and International Studies

 COVID-19 has caused significant disruption to the department and University. The plans outlined
 in this document are accurate at the time of submission and are expected to be realised unless the
 duration or effects of the pandemic exceed current assumptions. Further details are available in the
 'Institutional-level statement on COVID-19’.

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research, and impact strategy

 The UoA maps onto the School of Government and International Affairs (SGIA). SGIA is a
 broad-based department delivering world-leading research across a comprehensive range of
 politics and international relations sub-disciplines. Our submission contains 30 staff (FTE)
 structured around four research groups. These groups were established in 2016 to provide a
 framework through which SGIA’s historic concentrations of regional expertise could be brought into
 strategic alignment with key sub-disciplinary strengths in the School.

 1. Comparative Politics: encompasses comparative public opinion and elections (Morgan-
    Collins, Vivyan, Kuhn), political psychology (Ditonto), political development (Rigterink, Kuhn),
    American politics (Visalvanich, Ditonto, Andersen), quantitative methods (Cohen, Ditonto,
    Morgan-Collins, Andersen, Vivyan), identity and political culture, political institutions, and
    political conflict (Kuhn, Vivyan, Cohen, Rigterink). Collective activity is organized through the
    Centre for Institutions and Political Behaviour (CIPB). Members share cross-cutting
    interests with the Centre for Contemporary Chinese Studies and the Institute for Middle
    Eastern and Islamic Studies (IMEIS). Strengths in advanced quantitative methods are
    complemented by expertise in qualitative and mixed methods.

 2. Political Theory: encompasses analytical moral and political philosophy, international political
    theory, and history of political thought. Themes include war ethics (Finlay, Williams), structural
    injustice and problems of resisting it (Kahn, Finlay), political liberty (Dimova-Cookson); disability
    and equality, paternalism and sexual ethics (Begon); and modern British political thought
    (Stapleton, Dimova-Cookson). SGIA’s Centre for Political Thought (CPT) facilitates group
    activities and wider networking (with Philosophy at Durham and political theorists regionally,
    nationally, and internationally).

 3. Political Economy: encompasses global governance and international regulation of political
    economy (principally focused around the Global Policy Institute); comparative and regional
    political economy focusing in particular on China (linked to the Centre for Contemporary
    Chinese Studies) (Cheung); and the Middle East and North Africa region (associated with
    IMEIS) (Murphy, Harrison). A unique selling point at Durham’s research group is its specialism
    in political economy from the global south that connects it to SGIA’s historic strengths in regional
    specialisms.

 4. International Politics: encompasses international relations theory and international political
    theory (Williams, Baron, Harrington, Finlay), international political sociology, conflict resolution
    and peacebuilding (Murphy, Kappler, Bakonyi, Demetriou, Mac Ginty), critical security studies
    (Harrington), and foreign policy analysis (Jones, Ehteshami, Beckerman). Members work
    closely with the various Centres and Institutes detailed below, especially the Durham Global
    Security Institute (DGSi), the Global Policy Institute (GPI) and IMEIS.


                                                                                                       1
Research groups facilitate a wide variety of scholarly activities that bring individual researchers
(including postgraduate researchers) together to engage with colleagues’ work, participate in group
activities, and generate collaborations. These include seminar series, away days, workshops, and
reading groups.

Members coordinate activities through a suite of Centres and Institutes offering specialised regional
or thematic focus while connecting with researchers from other disciplines. Several are hosted by
SGIA and directed by senior SGIA faculty.

In addition to the Centres for Political Thought and for Institutions and Political Behaviour, the
Global Policy Institute leads collaboration across a wide range of disciplines on ‘global challenges
and transborder problems,’ ‘multilateral political and legal governance structures,’ and collective
action problems in international politics. It was first established in 2014 by David Held and Robert
Schutze (Law) and fostered interdisciplinary collaborations between Law, Politics and International
Relations, all of which play a role in this research agenda. It also includes Fellows, Honorary
Fellows, and Senior Fellows from Anthropology, Law, Geography, Health Policy and Management,
Business, and Modern Languages and Cultures as well as SGIA.

The Durham Global Security Institute (DGSi) (directed by Mac Ginty) leads work in contemporary
security studies at ‘the interface between defence, development, and diplomacy’ and cultivates
strong interdisciplinarity particularly between Politics / International Relations, Anthropology and
Law.

The al-Sabah Programme (led by Ehteshami), encompasses expertise in Middle Eastern and
Chinese studies focusing on the causes of insecurity, international aggression, and intrastate
hostilities in specific regions and offering guidance to international bodies and external powers on
appropriate responses.

The Institute for Middle Eastern and Islamic Studies (IMEIS) provides a vibrant hub for
interdisciplinary work encompassing inputs from political economists, political scientists, historians,
and Islamicists, along with colleagues from Anthropology, Arabic, Archaeology, Geography,
Business, all with connected interests in the study of the Middle East and the Muslim world in the
widest sense.

The Pakistan Security Research Unit (led by Prof Shaun Gregory until retirement in 2019) brought
together sub- and inter-disciplinary strengths with a national focus.

All centres and institutes based in the school report to SGIA’s Research Committee, which
oversees implementation of SGIA’s research strategy, and allocates resources. The Deputy Head
of School (Research) provides executive direction by chairing Research Committee and shares
responsibility for research leadership with a Deputy Director of Research (leading on research
income and mentoring; established in 2018), an Impact Officer, and Chair of the SGIA Ethics and
Risk Committee. A full-time SGIA Senior Research Administrator provides professional support in
tandem with centralised Research & Innovation Services (RIS). Doctoral research is overseen by
the SGIA Postgraduate Education Committee, which reports to the Board of Studies and is
chaired by the SGIA Director of Postgraduate Research and supported by a full-time SGIA
Postgraduate Officer. All three committees report to the SGIA Board of Studies (on which all
academic staff are represented as full members).

Supporting Interdisciplinary Research

SGIA supports a vibrant interdisciplinary research environment and interdisciplinarity is
consequently marbled throughout our research activity. In addition to the interdisciplinary
perspectives of our centres and institutes, SGIA has supported the development of major funded
interdisciplinary research projects and of interdisciplinary PGR projects. Two high-profile UKRI-
funded research projects are led from within SGIA that bring political scientists, theorists and
historians together to study the development of British politico-religious thought (PI Stapleton,


                                                                                                     2
AHRC) and the decline of violence in British elections (PI Kuhn, AHRC/ESRC). SGIA regularly co-
supervises Postgraduate Research Students with colleagues in Law, Geography, Anthropology,
and Sociology. To ensure that interdisciplinary research is fully valued in progression and
promotion, SGIA seeks peer review from colleagues in other University departments with relevant
expertise.

Open Research at SGIA

SGIA has processes in place to ensure an open research environment. Staff notify the Senior
Research Administrator of new outputs, who liaises with Library staff to ensure prompt and correct
deposit through University’s open access Durham Research Online. SGIA staff regularly exceed
REF requirements for open and reproducible research: e.g. Durham Global Security Institute and
the Institute for Middle Eastern and Islamic Studies publish outputs in publicly available working
paper series; the code and data underlying past and current major UKRI grant projects have been
made publicly available on project websites and UKDA (Vivyan ESRC grant 2013-14) or via GitHub
(Kuhn ESRC/AHRC grant 2018-21); and Stapleton currently leads an AHRC project to digitise and
make publicly available historically valuable journal entries.

Research Integrity and Ethics

The Ethics and Risk Committee oversees ethical and scholarly standards. Meeting quarterly, its
chair contributes to Faculty Ethics and Risk Committee, connecting SGIA to University policy and
facilitating feedback into wider institutional policy.

Our structures align with the three main Durham University frameworks structuring values, integrity,
and ethics: (a) A Responsible University; (b) the Research Integrity Policy and Code of Good
Practice; and (c) the Ethics Policy. Further guidance is applied as required by grant sources, e.g.
ESRC Research Ethics, PSA Professional Conduct and Ethics, BSA Guidelines on Ethical
Research and UK Evaluation Society Ethical Guidelines. University-wide frameworks structure all
our research from undergraduate dissertations, through PhDs, to major collaborative international
projects. All research proceeds only with approval and doctoral students receive training through
the Doctoral Research Workshops on Ethics in Social Science Research.

SGIA’s dedicated ethics support facilitates day-to-day management and recording of ethics and risk
issues, and policy and forms are accessed by secure online portal through the centralised online
ethics system. Ethically unproblematic and low risk activities proceed after initial vetting; activities
indicating moderate ethical concerns or medium risk activities are dealt with at the School Ethics
and Risk Committee, which can either approve, reject, or request revision, explanation, or
mitigation. Projects posing more serious ethical concerns or risks are addressed at Faculty level.
Research-related travel is woven into the Ethical Approval and General Risk Assessment forms and
the University agrees the travel and makes decisions on insurance through an online system.

SGIA recognises that ethics requires more than tick-box compliance. In line with the wider
University, SGIA researchers are guided ethically across the full research arc from ethical context
setting and ethical literature, through research design and conduct, to ethical data analysis,
reporting, presentation, aftercare, and researcher well-being. We are conscious to both of emergent
critiques of “Euro-Western” research ethics and of the emergence of other forms of research ethics
such as the “axiological challenge” of Indigenous research.

Research Objectives Since 2014 and for the Next Five Years

REF 2021 finds SGIA midway through an exciting period of strategic expansion, which has
facilitated a fundamental broadening and restructuring of our research activities. In 2017, the
University identified SGIA as one of a small number of academic departments to receive targeted
investment to fund significant growth contributing to the building of a critical mass of excellent
researchers across a broad range of sub-disciplines. Consequently, SGIA has made 18 new
permanent academic appointments since 2017 and will grow through further planned hires from a


                                                                                                      3
current staff of 32.3 (including 30 FTE academic (with research) plus teaching focused) to 37.7 by
October 2020 and to 50 by 2026-27. This institutional investment is enabling SGIA to deliver on its
long-term research strategy developed in 2015 after the last REF exercise. The strategy identifies
five key over-arching priorities which SGIA has been pursuing and will continue to pursue over
the next five years to ensure that by 2026-27 SGIA will be at the forefront of research across the
major sub-disciplines:

     Priority 1: Research Groups

     A fundamental reshaping of SGIA research structures around the four sub-disciplinary
     research groups. Up to 2014, SGIA organised its research chiefly around two core research
     “peaks”-‘Politics of the Muslim World’ and ‘Conflict and Ethics’-with additional small-scale
     research clusters. Our REF2014 submission stated as a key future objective to grow the
     smaller clusters into additional sub-disciplinary research peaks and to embed our historical
     strength in regional studies within the new architecture. Our 2015 research strategy expanded
     upon this objective and the School committed to reorganisation and investment towards
     building critical mass in each of the four sub-disciplinary research groups. These groups have
     helped align regional expertise with sub-disciplinary strengths and provide reference points
     through which to assess our success in cultivating research excellence across the discipline
     as a whole as well as areas with potential for further growth. Our goal is to ensure that within
     each of these key sub-disciplines SGIA sustains a vital research culture generating world-
     leading research outputs and impact, substantial research income, and well-trained doctoral
     students.

     Priority 2: Centres and Institutes

     While the research groups guide strategic planning and investment, our research strategy
     also enhances the role of research centres and institutes. Held accountable by SGIA
     Research Committee, centres and institutes have sufficient budgetary and decision-making
     autonomy to act as self-governing ‘hubs’. They provide versatile institutional loci through
     which to deepen sub-disciplinary research and to expand interdisciplinary collaboration
     across the University. Activities include:

             internal and cross-institutional regional research development workshops where
              colleagues receive detailed, constructive peer feedback on research outputs or grant
              applications in progress;

             guest speaker series and academic/practitioner conferences, providing exposure to
              emerging research agendas and opportunities to build academic and non-academic
              networks;

             bespoke support to enhance ongoing research projects or pilot promising new ones.

     Centres and Institutes encourage effective autonomous leadership of research at multiple
     levels within the department. The successful realisation of SGIA’s vision is evident from both
     the range of centre/institute activities annually and in the quality of publishers and journals
     through which members are increasingly publishing since 2015.

     Priority 3: Raising the Ambition of Researchers

     Our 2015 research strategy signalled a shift in priority towards quality over quantity in
     individual research goal-setting. To promote this cultural change, we embraced the new
     Durham University progression and promotion process, introduced 2017, applying it in such
     a way as to ensure that, within SGIA, it demonstrably and transparently reflects the new
     prioritisation (see Section 2). Additional support offered to staff to promote these goals
     include:



                                                                                                   4
       Increased research time workload allocations (Section 2);

       Continued generous research leave (Section 2);

       Targeted financial support from Centres/Institutes, School and broader University
        budgets to enhance research quality (Section 2);

       Strengthened mentoring processes and Centre/Institute peer review activities.

Our success is evident from a step change in publication behaviour. Colleagues now regularly
publish work in world-renowned peer review journals that rank in the top 30 by Google Scholar
h5-index across Political Science, Diplomacy and International Relations, Geography, and
Ethics, e.g. American Journal of Political Science, Journal of Politics, Journal of Conflict
Resolution, International Organization, Ethics, Third World Quarterly, British Journal of
Political Science, Ethics and International Affairs, International Studies Quarterly, Party
Politics, Electoral Studies, Political Geography, Journal of Applied Philosophy, Review of
International Studies, and highly prestigious subfield journals (e.g., Modern Intellectual
History, Journal of Strategic Studies, European Union Politics, International Theory, Journal
of Social Philosophy) and top presses (e.g., Cambridge University Press, Oxford University
Press, Indiana University Press).

Priority 4: Ambitious Targets for Research Income

We set ambitious targets for research income over the REF period with measures
implemented to support colleagues:

       Dedicated School Deputy Director of Research to support research income activity;

       Dedicated pre- and post-award support from the University Research Innovation
        Services;

       A rigorous peer review process for grants (overseen by the Deputy Director of
        Research),

       Encouraged development of Centres/Institutes that provide appropriate fora for the
        development of collaborative grant ideas and for feedback on draft grant proposals,

       Recognised research income capture more transparently in progression and
        promotion processes.

Success is evident from SGIA more than doubling its external research income in this REF
cycle compared to REF 2014 (in total and per capita). Awards are distributed across sub-
disciplinary groups and include a substantial increase in grants from highly competitive UKRI
schemes. Grant income has enabled a substantial increase in SGIA’s research capacity
through supporting a community of post-doctoral researchers (6 in SGIA in 2018/19; two as
Research Assistants in 2019/20).

Priority 5: Broadening and Deepening Non-Academic Engagement and Impact

In 2014, SGIA’s strongest impact was concentrated in International Politics. For instance, in
addition to the Case Studies submitted, see section 4 below on conflict displacement training
that Durham Global Security Institute members were invited to provide in Ethiopia and on the
Everyday Peace Indicators project. During the current cycle, we extended Impact across the
research groups. We have several examples of Impact in addition to the three REF 2021 Case
Studies including work on an electoral model used by the BBC during the 2015 General




                                                                                            5
      Election, a project on Jewish diaspora communities and their relationships with Israel, and
      contributions to legal testimony in cases with important international dimensions.

      To help cultivate this, we created a new Impact Officer post, resourced with substantial
      workload allocation to lead on advising on and facilitating staff engagement and Impact
      activities. They are supported by the SGIA Senior Research Administrator and by specialist
      Impact & Engagement Managers in Research Innovation Services. Staff impact activities are
      explicitly recognised in our revised progression and promotion criteria and staff are
      encouraged to see them as part of workload-allocated research time. Research leave
      applications that include well-planned impact activities are regularly supported by the
      Research Committee, and funding support is available from both SGIA and the University.
      Centres and Institutes routinely report to Research Committee on plans to develop
      engagement and impact during the annual planning process. The appointment of two new
      Professors of Practice (2018 and 2019, Section 2) is designed to enhance future co-
      production of knowledge.

      Engagement with the wider public is pursued on platforms like The Conversation, The
      Stockholm Ethical War Blog, Open Democracy, and Zocalo Public Square, through media
      appearances, and through participation in local institutions such as Durham Cathedral,
      Tyneside Cinema, and the Durham Book Festival.

Section 2. People

Recruitment is orientated by SGIA’s ongoing mission to ensure a vital, sustainable research
culture. Benefitting from substantial University investment, we have made a series of hires aimed
strategically at developing the research architecture across the four research groups (18 hires since
2017).

   The Comparative Politics group was expanded in the initial phase of SGIA growth with a view
    to building a cohesive community of researchers, many sharing interests in advanced
    quantitative methods. New hires – Assistant Professors Kuhn, Morgan-Collins, Jakimow,
    Rigterink, Ditonto and Andersen, and Associate Professors Nanou and Visalvanich – doubled
    group membership compared with 2013 (from five to ten (including Cohen and Vivyan)).
    Leadership has emerged with Vivyan promoted to Professor and Kuhn to Associate Professor
    alongside existing Associate Professors Cohen and Wittlinger (promoted to Chair in 2019 but
    who sadly passed away in 2020).

   The Political Theory group gained two Assistant Professors (Kahn and Begon). A new Professor
    of Political Theory (Finlay) strengthened research leadership alongside existing staff, Stapleton
    and Dimova-Cookson. The group’s strong and sustainable permanent core of five includes three
    Associate/ full Professors. It will be further strengthened by a new Assistant Professor of
    International Political Theory (September 2020) and additional appointments up to 2026/27.

   Already an established area of strength by 2014, the International Politics Research Group
    expanded further with nine hires: six Assistant Professors (Beckerman, Kappler, Darwich,
    Harrington [ECR], Belcher, and McCarthy), two Associate Professors (Bush [who sadly passed
    away in 2016] and Demetriou), and one Professor (Mac Ginty). The group now totals 12
    permanent members – the above excepting Bush and Darwich (who left Durham in 2019), plus
    Bakonyi, Baron, Ehteshami, Jones, and Williams. With six Professors, research leadership is
    strong. SGIA is recruiting an additional Assistant Professor of International Relations to start
    September 2020, followed by further hires up to 2026-27.

   The Political Economy group is a key priority for expansion in the next five years. SGIA
    appointed a new Associate Professor of International Political Economy (Harrison) in 2019 to
    join existing staff Cheung (Associate Professor) and Murphy (Professor) in leading the group’s
    development towards 2026-27. Plans for further expansion include the appointment of one new


                                                                                                   6
   Assistant Professor in International Political Economy in August 2020 and two further Assistant
   Professors in August 2021.

SGIA is committed to long-term investment in staff. All new appointments above are permanent.
100% of our 30 current Category A staff are permanent (alongside 2 PDRA positions, two Research
Assistants, and one Visiting Research Fellow). During the same period, SGIA has seen departures:
six staff retired, seven moved on to other institutions, and one left academia. Islamic Finance
specialists moved to the Business School due to a strategic decision to embed Islamic Finance in
the finance research cluster. Sadly, as well as Bush and Wittlinger, Held also passed away in 2019.

In addition to academic recruitment, the School has also embedded Impact into our staffing
strategy by recruiting two Professors of Practice: David Ellery (Royal College of Defence Studies,
formerly of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office) who works primarily with the International
Politics Research Group; and Souresh Nanwani (former Advisor to the Asian Development Bank),
who works across the International Politics and Political Economy groups. Appointing these high-
profile, experienced practitioners, with whom we had already established effective working
relationships, helps inform research agendas from a practitioner perspective and provides unique
connections that enable SGIA staff to better engage with policy makers and practitioners. Staff are
encouraged to dedicate time to consulting for or advising significant organisations such as DFiD
(Bakonyi, Cohen), FCDO (Ehteshami, Murphy, Gregory, Jones), NATO (Gregory), and the British
Council (Murphy, Mac Ginty, Kappler). Commercial consulting is supported by a team in RIS.

SGIA has built comprehensive staff development structures ensuring that – in line with the
University’s commitments to the Concordat – from joining the school onwards, staff are supported
to meet their full research potential.

1. Expanded induction process: All new staff, permanent or fixed-term, have at least three days
   of intensive induction led throughout by the Head of School. Staff receive thorough introductions
   to the SGIA, University, and UK research environment; SGIA research expectations (including
   publications, impact and research income) and how these are reflected in promotion and
   progression criteria (see below); and the support at SGIA and the wider University for high-
   quality research, impact, and research income.

2. Enhanced mentoring introduced for all SGIA staff: The Deputy Director of Research ensures
   staff are regularly informed of mentoring options, assigns appropriate mentors, and monitors
   mentoring relationships. The process is flexible, meeting academics’ needs across different
   contexts and all career stages. Each is assigned a mentor upon appointment and is encouraged
   to meet them regularly throughout probation (or for their whole contract, if fixed-term). Post-
   probation, permanent staff choose from three mentoring routes depending on their needs: (1)
   continued one-to-one mentoring (for more senior staff, we often find more experienced mentors
   outside the School); (2) ‘collective’ mentoring, whereby all members of the relevant
   centre/institute regardless of career stage contribute to guidance and support of research and
   career development; (3) a more flexible option of periodic one-to-one ‘research conversations’
   (up to three annually) with the Deputy Director of Research or another experienced member of
   staff.

3. Research centres and institutes now play a crucial role in supporting research development.
   SGIA Research Committee has encouraged these bodies to intensify their role as hubs of
   research activities. All host guest speakers and help build professional relationships with
   academics and practitioners from the UK and beyond. Many now also run workshops where
   permanent staff, fixed term postdoctoral researchers and PhD students obtain detailed and
   timely peer feedback on work in progress (including grant applications). Leading examples are
   the North East Research Development workshop (introduced by the Centre for Institutions and
   Political Behaviour) and the Centre for Political Thought’s annual Away Day. The latter is among
   a number of workshops run in collaboration with Newcastle University and Queen’s University




                                                                                                  7
   Belfast, enhancing the pool of expertise and research collaboration opportunities. PDRA and
   PGR participation is integral to these activities.

4. Staff research is financially resourced. Permanent staff have University-funded personal
   research allowances of £1000 pa (£1500 during their first year) with discretion as to how best to
   utilise it. SGIA Research Committee has a budget to which all SGIA academic staff can apply to
   fund conference presentations, limited fieldwork or data collection, expert external pre-
   submission peer review, and impact activities. SGIA colleagues also apply to University financial
   support schemes, including the Seedcorn scheme to support nascent grant applications and a
   scheme providing small grants to support the enhancement of research outputs in progress.
   Finally, the University and SGIA jointly fund bespoke research training for SGIA staff, including
   one-to-one writing for academic research training sessions.

5. SGIA has enhanced the time staff can dedicate to research and impact. All post-probation
   academics with research in their contract are expected to take one term of University-funded
   research leave for every seven worked (University policy). A rigorous SGIA workload model
   now assigns staff 40% of working hours to research and impact in addition to research leave.
   We support probationary staff by offering a 30% reduction in administrative and teaching load,
   and recognise time demands of new teaching in workload weightings.

6. In implementing the University’s progression and promotion process (introduced 2017/18),
   SGIA gives staff clear guidance on reward for high quality research and impact. The
   Departmental Progression and Promotion Committee (DPPC) reviews all permanent staff and
   fixed term staff with >24 months in their current role annually. CVs are scored rigorously for
   publications’ quality; impact and income generation; teaching innovation and quality; and
   citizenship. SGIA supplements University expectations with discipline-specific expectations
   aligning with SGIA’s Research Strategy. All staff receive detailed annual feedback on their
   progress against the criteria to help them focus and prioritise future development. The Head of
   School (DPPC Chair) offers meetings to all staff to discuss the feedback and plans, and the
   Deputy Director of Research prompts follow-up mentoring meetings.

7. Demonstrating trust in colleagues hired through our rigorous recruitment process, probation
   has been reduced from three years to one, increasing job security and reducing stress,
   especially for ECRs and PDRAs. New probation agreements have an onus on supporting
   colleagues to integrate and develop their research agendas organically through induction,
   mentoring, and research-group activity.

In addition to a step-change in publications and research income, the success of these investments
in staff development is also evidenced by ten staff promotions since 2014: six to Associate Professor
(or equivalent) and four to Professor. Two promotions delayed by Covid-19 were awarded October
2020.

Research students

REF4a awards data for 19: Politics and International Studies

Within the period we have supervised 106.95 PhD completions. We have sought ways to ensure
close alignment between doctoral research and the research groups’ disciplinary focus. This has
resulted in some areas of supervision that contributed to the larger overall numbers (indicated in
the table above) during the earlier period being relocated outside the UOA, e.g. by moving the
Doctoral Training Centre in Islamic Finance in the Durham Business School (2014). Evidence of the
high calibre of the students we recruit is reflected in continued success in attracting studentship
funding. Since 2014 our students have been awarded 14 ESRC-funded NINEDTP studentships and
one AHRC-funded Northern Bridge award, one Commonwealth Scholarship, and one Global
Challenges Research Fund scholarship. We hosted three Durham Doctoral Studentship award
holders and supported six research students with our own al-Sabah and faculty-provided funding.



                                                                                                   8
Ten doctoral students were funded by their own national governments and a number by INGO
awards.

PGR applications are judged on student achievement, proposal quality, and supervisory fit, through
both written materials and interview. Students have a minimum of two supervisors, at least one a
permanent full-time academic. Induction covers how the supervisory relationship works; systems,
services and processes at Durham University for doctoral students; training needs analysis; and
monitoring and evaluation. Supervisors must have completed probation and attended DU’s training
for new supervisors. Additional support is offered through mentoring and from the PGR Director.
Research student concerns are raised with the PGR Director who sits on the School Management
Group and Research Committee and reports to the Board of Studies. This post is allocated to a
senior colleague with an established record of successful research supervision and examination.

Students and supervisors use a shared supervisory blog system for supervision record-keeping,
exchange and archiving of documents, and regular contact. Supervisors are allocated workload
allowance for each student and are expected to meet them regularly, approximately once every two
weeks. Student progress is reviewed through written work submitted for a panel interview at nine
months, 21 months, and 33 months. The key aim is to offer supportive feedback and prompt critical
self-reflection. Students and supervisors complete an annual on-line review, which is in turn
considered by both the PGR Director and the Deputy Head of Faculty for PGRs.

PGRs join SGIA research groups/centres and participate as full members who benefit from group
research funds. They are encouraged to participate in research activities within other departments
where relevant. A Research Support Workshop course runs through the first year of study,
introducing issues like social science research ethics, protecting your mental health, creating
inclusive research communities, the wider research environment, effective library utilisation,
networking, and preparing your first publication. We encourage students to take part in activities
organised by the Durham Doctoral Training Programme and they can apply for funding to attend
additional external training. PGRs can apply to SGIA’s Postgraduate Education Committee for funds
to support conference presentations, fieldwork, software or equipment purchase (averaging £600
each, annually). Students are offered desk space in School buildings, have access to shelves and
pigeonholes, receive free Durham Library Delivery service, free photocopying, and an annual
printing allowance. SGIA buildings are fully networked and accessible 24/7. A SGIA Postgraduate
Association also organises training, networking, research, and weekly social events.

Equality and diversity

SGIA has developed a good balance between junior and senior staff: 9/30 Professors, 9/30
Associate Professors and 12/30 Assistant Professors. Since each research group contains at least
two promoted members of staff and at least one full Professor, SGIA provides research leadership
– in raising external profile, securing research income, and mentoring more junior colleagues –
across four sub-disciplines, and each group now also contributes toward overall leadership of the
School. We are a cosmopolitan department: almost half of our 30 staff are non-UK nationals or born
outside the UK and come from a diverse range of countries including Canada, Germany, Greece,
Hong Kong, Ireland, Iran, Switzerland, United States, Cyprus, and Bulgaria. 47% of Category A staff
are women, above the average national rate of 33% for UK politics and international studies
departments. Of promoted staff, 39% are women, and during the current REF cycle women have
held key leadership positions in the School (Head of School, Deputy Head of School, Director of
Postgraduate Research, Deputy Director of Research, and Director of Learning and Teaching).

SGIA actively supports equality and diversity through a number of processes and initiatives. In 2016,
it was the first English non-STEM department to receive an Athena SWAN Bronze Award. Staff
appointed to our Self-Assessment Team (SAT) oversee the Athena SWAN action plan. A SAT
Chair receives workload of 200 hours, reports to Board of Studies, and sits on the Research
Committee. The Athena SWAN action plan for promoting gender equality provides an agenda
through which SGIA can address other protected characteristics as well as gender.



                                                                                                   9
SGIA’s action plan includes:

    Biennial ‘Unconscious Bias’ training for all SGIA staff and PGR students.

    A workshop on ‘respect in the workplace’ facilitated by HR.

    The new mentoring arrangements

    Reviewing pay and promotion rates by gender.

    SGIA funding for female staff to attend Aurora Leadership Training.

    Reviewing module reading lists to ensure they reflect the full range of research contributions
     from men and women.

    Moving the normal start time of departmental meetings forward from 2pm to 1pm so most
     meetings end before staff with childcare responsibilities have to depart.

SGIA not only embraces the University’s policy of allowing staff taking six months or more of
parental leave to apply for an additional term of research leave but also supplements this policy by
offering a term of 50% relief of administrative and teaching workload (and a resulting increase in
research time from 40% to 70%) for colleagues returning from three months or more parental leave.
SGIA thus recognises that some new parents (regardless of gender) are unable to take six months
(e.g. due to financial circumstances) and ensures they feel able to take shorter periods of parental
leave without fear of falling behind on their research ambitions.

In line with University policy, SGIA values and prioritises equality and diversity during recruitment.
Job searches are designed to ensure balanced, representative applicant pools. Indeed, before
longlisting and shortlisting for an academic position, the school has to pass an audit relating to the
actions it has taken to promote equality and diversity and on how the resulting applicant pool
compares to disciplinary gender and racial balance norms. Similarly, SGIA implements a University-
wide policy on flexible working entitling all staff to request flexible working patterns in terms of time
and location. Requests are decided by line managers within three months. Staff can apply annually
to University timetabling services to adjust teaching times in line with caring responsibilities, health
issues, or periods of religious observance.

Part-time staff have the same career pathways as full-time staff. The University’s new
progression and promotion policy specifies promotion criteria to each grade, and explicitly instructs
Department Progression and Promotion Committees to pro-rata these for part-time staff. SGIA
PDRAs or Teaching Fellows are generally employed on contracts of between two and three years.
The policy ensures that fixed-term-contracted staff employed for more than 24 months receive
detailed career development feedback from the Department Progression and Promotion
Committee. In exceptional cases fixed-term staff can also be promoted based on a business case
from the Head of School. Fixed-term staff have access to career development opportunities, such
as Research Committee conference funding (as far afield as North America), administrative support
with grant preparation, staff training courses, and centre and institute research activities. All fixed-
term teaching fellows have a scholarship allowance within their workload.

SGIA staff and research students can make requests for special assistance when attending
conferences (to Research Committee and Postgraduate Education Committee, respectively), e.g.
airline seats reflecting health issues. Our commitment extends to visiting researchers, e.g. funding
childcare to enable a guest speaker visiting Durham to bring their infant (2018). SGIA Research
Committee decision-making on funding and research leave ensures input from a cross-section of
SGIA staff. Its policies and forms regarding funding allocations were revised during the cycle to
enhance clarity and transparency.


                                                                                                      10
SGIA provides additional support for staff returning from periods of leave, ill health, managing
long-term illness, or with caring responsibilities. Workload planning, starting 12 months in
advance of each academic year, ensures we can work around key caring commitments or known
health-related events. Staff can request assistance in the event of unforeseen circumstances and
the Departmental Manager can efficiently identify tasks that can be re-allocated and the means of
doing so fairly. Relatedly, PGRs may request temporary suspensions or extensions of
registration to compensate for parental leave, ill-health, or adverse personal circumstances. SGIA
also accommodates PGR students with childcare responsibilities, for example running Annual
Reviews by Skype on occasion due to childcare considerations.

Staff self-identifying as having a disability receive occupational health assessments ahead of
taking up employment. SGIA is committed to meeting additional costs to allow those with disabilities
to perform effectively in their role and develop their career. Previous support includes investment in
speech recognition word processing software, and specialist desks, seating, and printers. Research
students registered with Durham University Service for Students with Disabilities can request
reports be sent to the department with recommendations for allowances and assistance. Finally,
the fully accessible main SGIA building offers an accessible bathroom, lift, and parking for persons
with disabilities.

SGIA takes seriously researchers’ wellbeing. For staff, the workload model is crucial, permitting
planning, providing assurances about overall load, and protecting research time. The School
regularly reviews its workload model to examine whether teaching and other administrative activities
are allocated appropriate, realistic time. Our revised mentoring process provides staff with additional
support and advice. Beyond SGIA, the University Occupational Health and Counselling Service
provide important physical and mental health support for all staff at all career stages. In order to
ensure that the mental health needs are recognised and supported, we have held awareness and
information sessions (led by the University Counselling Service) for our researchers (including
PGRs). Students and staff with mental health issues are encouraged to seek support from the
Counselling Service.

In line with DU Code of Practice, outputs are selected for REF according to a fair and transparent
process for evaluating research quality. SGIA staff rank their own research outputs in terms of
quality. Based on this ranking, outputs are prioritised for internal and external peer review. Final
selection of outputs is determined based on overall output quality scores, based on three key inputs:
internal peer review; external peer review; and quality estimates from a statistical model that uses
as inputs the information about the outlet in which an output was published. The latter component
receives only small weight in ultimate quality scores, but we believe is a useful supplement for small
numbers of internal and external readings that are known to be noisy and potentially subject to
biases.

Once we constructed an optimal outputs submission, we identified any opportunities for adjustments
to ensure better demographic representation of School staff without reducing overall pool quality.

Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Grant Capture and Income

In line with strategic priority 4, SGIA more than doubled external research income during the
current REF period to £3.45m (£115,000 per current FTE head) compared with £1.4m in the 2014
REF cycle (at £41,000 per FTE head). Funding secured since August 2013 from highly prestigious
and competitive bodies such as the ESRC, the AHRC, and the European Union, reflects SGIA’s
successful cultivation of vibrant sub-disciplinary research cultures and a research environment
supportive of funding-orientated activity.

Research groups, centres, and institutes are encouraged to run workshops and seminars where
colleagues can develop collaborative funding proposals and receive rigorous, constructive, and
expert feedback pre-submission. This helped all four research groups contribute substantially to our

                                                                                                    11
overall research income success. Within Political Theory, Stapleton secured £350k from the AHRC
and Finlay held a prestigious Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship (£113k). Within Comparative
Politics, Kuhn (PI), Cohen, and Vivyan collaborate on a £500k ESRC grant, Sutherland secured a
£240k ESRC grant, Wittlinger secured a £118k grant from the German Ministry for Culture and
Media, and both Vivyan and Nanou were awarded British Academy Small Grants. International
Politics received major awards for, among others, Bakonyi (£428k, AHRC; £260k, ESRC; £50k from
Leverhulme), Ehteshami (£331k from the AHRC, £123k from the European Commission), and
Kappler (£261k from the AHRC, £123k from the Swedish Riksbank, £80k from the Swedish
Research Council), with Darwich receiving a British Academy Small Grant. In the Political Economy
group, Murphy secured £111k from the European Commission and £32k from the ESRC. Early and
mid-career researchers too have developed ambitious, high-quality research bids, as evidenced by
Kappler’s and Kuhn’s success, much of which was achieved while Assistant Professors. Thus, SGIA
is achieving balanced and sustainable research income growth.

These grants have resulted in publications in leading journals (e.g. Ethics, Political Geography, and
The Journal of Politics) and monographs such as Ehteshami and Niv Horesh, How China’s Rise is
Changing the Middle East (Routledge 2020). Successful grant capture across research groups also
reflects investment. SGIA Research Committee devolves a substantial portion of its overall budget
(ca 55% in 2019-20) to Centres and Institutes so that sub-disciplinary communities can set their
specific strategic priorities.

Research income growth also reflects strategic reforms regarding leadership and administrative
support for research grants. To ensure sufficient planning and coordination, SGIA’s Deputy
Director of Research has been entrusted with leadership of research income activities and allocated
corresponding workload. They are supported by the Senior Research Administrator plus SGIA’s
pre- and post-award support officers in RIS. The latter officers both spend at least one day per week
in the SGIA Research Office and can draw on a wealth of experience of supporting academics in
securing and delivering grants. Our RIS-SGIA support officers are also able to put colleagues in
touch with other RIS contacts with particular expertise concerning certain funders or in developing
large collaborative grants.

All SGIA staff, including fixed-term Teaching Fellows, receive support in generating research
funding. The Deputy Director of Research organises peer review for all grant applications, an
opportunity most actively taken up by ECRs, postdoctoral fellows, and teaching fellows. Centres
and Institutes have been proactive in offering support for grant applications, including peers, but
also in helping in the early stages of identifying funding bodies and shaping research ideas. All staff
also receive support from the SGIA RIS pre-award officer for the development of costings for grant
bids. For highly competitive grants or postdoctoral competitions where the School can only submit
a small number of applications, decisions on which applications to submit are made by a panel
whose membership includes the Deputy Director of Research, the Director of Research, and the
RIS pre-award support officer, plus an additional staff member where necessary to ensure gender
representation. Decisions are communicated to applicants with feedback.

Research Support Facilities

A research librarian works alongside our subject specialist librarian (Holmes), who sits on the
School’s Board of Studies and Staff-Student Consultative Committee. Durham University’s library
provides specialist collections supporting established SGIA Middle East and North Africa research
strengths. The Middle East Documentation Unit houses one of Europe's largest and best
bibliographical, archival, and documentation collections on the Middle East, and the Sudan Archive.
SGIA also hosts the Sir William Luce Fellowship, awarded annually to a scholar, at post-doctoral
level and held jointly in the Institute for Middle Eastern & Islamic Studies and Trevelyan College,
whose work relates to Iran, the Gulf states, South Arabia and Sudan. And the Mohammed Ali
Foundation Fellowship is hosted by IMEIS and Grey College.

Broader university support for research comes from the Vice Provost for Research (strategy and
policy) and from RIS (operationalisation and support). Durham Centre for Academic Development

                                                                                                    12
(DCAD) trains researchers, while Computing and Information Services (CIS) support three Faculty
Academic IT Team Leaders, ensuring researchers’ needs are met. Managed computing service
provides access to core applications and to specialist research software for specific groups.
Development and Alumni Relations (DARO) supports departments in identifying and working with
philanthropic supporters of research (SGIA has received over £1.7 million in donations since 2013).
Finally, the International Office supports SGIA in developing strategic partnerships (e.g. with the
patron of the al-Sabah Programme), recruiting talented international students, and assisting with
international networks such as the Matariki Network of Universities (facilitating staff exchanges that
enrich research culture).

The Marketing and Communications Team supports researchers in identifying research with
potential for external/media interest, publicising research, promoting researchers, monitoring
coverage, training in media skills, and facilitating relationships with media bodies.

Buildings, Infrastructure, and Workspaces

SGIA is chiefly concentrated in two buildings, of which we are sole occupiers, the al-Qasimi
Building and South End House. We have additional office space in two further buildings, Elvet
Hill House and the ‘Annex,’ where some postgraduates have dedicated space. All four locations
are situated in a cluster approximately a ten-minute walk from the larger lecture theatres on the
Mountjoy Campus. The purpose-built al-Qasimi Building houses 15 academic staff offices, two
administrative offices, an IT suite, study room for Postgraduate students with dedicated desk space,
four seminar/lecture rooms, a communal foyer, kitchen and storage facilities. South End House
houses 17 staff offices, three seminar/lecture rooms, a kitchen, and storage space. The closeness
of buildings in the cluster ensures ease of communication in between meetings, and events
alternate between venues as appropriate. The larger lecturing, social, and seminar spaces in al-
Qasimi make it an effective hub for School and research group activities bringing together staff from
all four locations.

SGIA’s al-Qasimi Building routinely hosts public lectures and other events bringing together
academics and non-academic practitioners, e.g. the Annual Ann Lambton Memorial Lecture.
Researchers have collaborated with the University’s Museums in public engagement activities: e.g.
Sutherland’s photographic exhibition at the Oriental Museum from the ESRC-funded project on
Cham Muslims in South East Asia. The al-Sabah Programme promotes, organises and co-hosts
conferences and workshops and sponsors the Sheikh Nasser al-Mohammad al-Sabah Chair, held
by Ehteshami.

Durham University colleges contribute to SGIA’s research environment in a variety of ways. They
host speakers and invite SGIA researchers to participate in talks (e.g the St Chad’s Annual SCR
Lecture (2019) by Baroness Onora O’Neill). The ‘Castle Lecture Series’ (initiated by David Held
and running since 2012) has brought leading figures to University College’s Great Hall to address
issues in public life, scholarship, and science, including Martin Wolf, Peter Singer, Catherine de
Vries, Jeffrey Sachs, Stefan Collini, Linda Colley, and David Willetts. Durham’s collegiate structure
permits SGIA Research Groups to locate workshops and lectures at attractive, often historic,
locations, which helps groups to develop internal bonds and linkages at a distance from our normal
‘workspaces’, e.g. the recent workshop on Constant and Liberty held at the Birley Room, Hatfield
College, and Durham Town Hall. College estates also help promote impact and engagement, e.g.
the Democratic Transition and Security in Pakistan conference, December 2013, at St Mary’s
College, was attended by three acting or former Ambassadors/ High Commissioners, diplomatic
staff from seven embassies, seven staff from the Foreign Office, three from the MoD, multinational
military staff, and academics from across the world.

As our staff cohort grows, it is expected that SGIA will eventually relocate to the Mill Hill Lane site
currently occupied by the Durham University Business School. This will help maintain cohesion and
internal coordination while SGIA grows and will also deepen connections with other departments as
the new location will most likely be shared with partners in Social Sciences. These plans are



                                                                                                    13
contingent on movements in other schools/departments and on the completion of University
buildings plans (with some delay due to Covid-19).



Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Research Collaborations, Local, National, and International

SGIA has been highly successful in building national and international collaborations during
the REF cycle as illustrated by the following projects funded during the REF cycle:

 Murphy’s involvement alongside partners from 12 other universities/Institutes across 11
  countries in Europe and the Middle East on the EU-funded project: POWER2YOUTH.

 Kappler’s Swedish Riksbanka and Swedish Research Council projects in collaboration with
  universities in Sweden and Germany (Lund and Marburg) and the Swedish Institute of
  International Affairs: Peace and the Politics of Memory.

 Bakonyi’s ESRC-funded project in collaboration with partners based in the UK (KCL), Norway
  (Norwegian University of Life Sciences), and Somalia (SOWELPA): Security on the Move.

 Ehteshami’s collaboration with partners at Edinburgh, Manchester, and the School of Advanced
  Study, University of London: Cross-Language Dynamics: Reshaping Community Consortium.

 Nanou’s British Academy project in collaboration with researchers at University of Zurich and
  Kings College London: Seeking the Personal Vote: How Legislators Exploit the Party Line.

 Vivyan’s role as Associated Researcher on an Austrian National Bank-funded project with
  colleagues at the University of Vienna, Austria: What do voters want from their parliamentary
  representatives?

 Kuhn and Vivyan’s role on the Investigatory Team of the 2017 New Zealand Election Study:
  Turnout Reporting and Sensitive Survey Techniques

Staff have worked with non-academic actors at several levels. Locally, SGIA values and nurtures
close relationships with partners in Durham and the North East. Staff have co-organised or
participated in non-academic events drawing on our research, including:

   Exhibitions at Durham Cathedral (Stapleton AHRC project).

   Contributions to the Durham Arts Festival and Durham Book Festival (Stapleton AHRC project).

   Co-founding the Global Policy North network (Held).

   The Durham Castle public lecture series (viewed more than ½ million times on YouTube) (Held).

   A concert of the inter-religious choir ‘Pontanima’ from Bosnia-Herzegovina at Durham Miners’
    Association (Kappler).

   Film screenings and roundtables at Tyneside Cinema, Newcastle (Ehteshami, AHRC project).

To support collaborations, SGIA staff can draw on various resources, including £1k annual Personal
Research Allowance and applications to SGIA Research Committee, to the devolved budgets of
Centres and Institutes, and the University Seedcorn fund for financial support to run networking and
planning meetings with collaborators. They are also supported in organising activities by the SGIA

                                                                                                 14
Senior Research Administrator. Our inter-institutional collaborative approach is embedded in
regular joint research workshops run with Newcastle University colleagues in the areas of Political
Theory and Comparative Politics.

SGIA engages closely in collaborative arrangements for PGR training through both the ESRC-
funded NINE DTP (doctoral training programme) and the AHRC-funded Northern Bridge DTP. We
host studentships for the Durham Global Challenges Centre for Doctoral Training (GCRF) which
hosts a cohort of 25 international PhD students, all citizens of a developing nation, from 2019-21,
and we have a partnership with Qatar University for a Dual Award PhD programme in Gulf Studies.
These measures are all supported by the Durham Doctoral Training Programme, which provides
generic and professional skills training, supplementing discipline-specific training offered by each
department. PhD students connected with the Centre for Institutions and Political Behaviour
participate in the North East Research Development Workshop (NERD) (two-three times p.a.) with
both Durham and Newcastle University colleagues. Each one-day event focuses four to five working
papers by graduate students and staff. Graduate students are encouraged to attend and give
sample chapters of their dissertations to engage with the research development process and
receive wider feedback from beyond their supervisors. The Centre also runs a PhD specific
workshop within Durham at which second and third year students are encouraged to present draft
chapters of their dissertation. This provides expert peer-review both on substance of work and
presentation.

Briefings and Consultation

In terms of national engagement and impact, SGIA staff have provided briefings and consultation
to various Government or public bodies including:

   the FCDO (Ehteshami, Gregory, Jones, Murphy);

   DfID (Bakonyi, Cohen);

   the MoD (Jones);

   the British Council (Murphy);

   the House of Commons Library (Vivyan);

   the Royal College of Defence Studies (Beckerman, Mac Ginty).

Internationally, SGIA staff have provided briefings and consultation to overseas governments and
international governmental organisations, including the:

   French and American governments (Gregory and Ehteshami);

   Canadian, Dutch, Indian and Pakistani governments (Gregory);

   Japanese government (Vivyan);

   Bundesministerium für Wirtschaftliche Zusammenareit (BMZ) (Bakonyi);

   Danish Refugee Council (Bakonyi); Cypriot government (Demetriou), Colombian government
    (Kappler); Vietnamese government (Sutherland);

   EU (Gregory, Murphy),




                                                                                                 15
   UNHCR (Gregory);

   NATO (Beckerman, Gregory);

   International Organisation for Migration (Bakonyi);

   International Rescue Committee (Bakonyi).

SGIA brings interdisciplinarity to key areas of political practice internationally, as seen in the
invitation in 2019 of Durham Global Security Institute members, Demetriou, Bakonyi, and Elizabeth
Kurtslogou (Anthropology), to conduct training in ‘conflict displacement and durable solutions’ for
members of the Ministry of Peace in Ethiopia, which has among the world’s largest populations of
internally displaced people. Another example is the Everyday Peace Indicators (EPI) project, led by
Mac Ginty and Pamina Firchow (Brandeis). Key international organisations such as USAID and
USIP seeking more responsive and participatory monitoring and evaluation methods have sought
partnerships with the programme to help them operate in Afghanistan, Sri Lanka, Algeria, and
Columbia and it is hoped that further partnerships will occur with the UNDP and WFP. EPI has a
website (everydaypeaceindicators.org) and an EPI NGO has been established to extend its reach
in the US.

Media Contributions

SGIA staff make regular local, national, and global media contributions. Notable examples include
appearances on BBC Radio 4 Start the Week (Finlay); the production of regular constituency-level
election forecasts and bespoke analysis for BBC Newsnight and fivethirtyeight.com (Vivyan);
contributions to a BBC documentary on British covert involvement in Yemen during the 1960s and
participation in a German documentary (with ZDF) on Geheime Israel: Der Mossad (Jones); and
wide-ranging representations on Chinese politics and international relations with the BBC, Reuters,
al-Jazeera, Newsweek, and many other media organizations (Cheung). These bring SGIA research
into public engagement with wider communities in the UK and beyond.

Online publications by SGIA researchers on various platforms facilitate research communciation
to wider readerships, e.g. The Conversation and The New Statesman and platforms in the US (e.g.
Zocalo Public Square) and Sweden (The Stockholm Ethical War Blog). SGIA edits the scholarly
journal, Global Policy, which hosts a policy-focused blog through which Durham researchers and
UK and international researchers can engage each other and the wider public on research themes.
The GPI’s Twitter account has 10,800 followers.

SGIA research engages the wider public through other media too, e.g. Bakonyi’s ESRC-funded
project ‘Security on the Move’ which presented a photographic exhibition in Nairobi (British Institute
in Eastern Africa/Rift Valley Forum) in April 2019 with pictures and testimonies from participating
displaced people. The exhibition toured Hargeisa, Mogadishu, Bosaaso, Baidoa, Oslo, and London.

Sustaining the Discipline and Promoting Interdisciplinarity

SGIA is committed to the sustainability of the discipline of politics and international studies.
During the current assessment period our staff held various prominent professional association
roles, including: Co-convenor of PSA Communism specialist group 2013-15 (Cohen); Co-convenor
of PSA Modern Liberty specialist group (Dimova-Cookson); Trustee for the Council for British
Research in the Levant (a British Academy Institute) (Darwich); Chair, European Association of
Israel Studies 2013-16 (Jones); and Chair, International Association for the Study of German Politics
(Wittlinger). Bakonyi was Section Chair for the EISA 2018 & 2019 conferences and the 2019 ECPR
annual conference. Darwich served as member of Assessment Group for British-Egyptian Society
Conference on 1919 Egypt Revolution. Murphy is co-author of a CBRL/ British Academy Research
Review (June-December 2013). Gregory was Academic Adviser for the Commonwealth
Scholarship Commission (run by FCDO & DFID).


                                                                                                   16
SGIA staff engaged with interdisciplinary organisations and projects. Baron is Co-Director of the
interdisciplinary Durham University Centre for the Study of Jewish Culture, Society, and Politics,
and works on an interdisciplinary project (with Sociology, American Studies, Jewish Studies, Israeli
Studies) about Jews and Israel, focusing on the role of Israel in the life of a Jewish congregation in
California. This Centre hosted the British Association of Jewish Studies Annual Conference in July
2018. Demetriou is Treasurer, Society for the Anthropology of Europe, American Anthropological
Association. Darwich worked on a project with Law colleagues on ‘Security and Mediation in
International Relations’ funded by the DU Institute of Advanced Studies (Christopher Knott
Fellowship). Murphy’s EU-funded FP7 projects, 2013-2016, examined youth in an inter-disciplinary
perspective (demography, sociology, political science, area studied, economics, anthropology,
political economy). Bakonyi’s Security on the Move project involves collaborators from various
disciplines: Kirsti Stuvoy (IR, Norway), Pete Chonka (Media Studies, Africa Studies), UN-Habitat
(urban planning), Sowelpa (civil society organisation).

SGIA staff edit journals including Peacebuilding (Mac Ginty; Kappler is review editor), Modern Greek
Studies (Demetriou), and East Asia: an International Quarterly (Cheung). During the current
assessment period, SGIA staff have been editorial board members for numerous journals and book
series: Twentieth Century Communism [Cohen]; Routledge Contemporary Middle East Series
[Ehteshami]; Routledge Durham Modern Middle East and Islamic World Series [Ehteshami]; Journal
of Modern Greek Studies [Demetriou, Associate Ed]; The Cyprus Review [Demetriou]; APSA MENA
Newsletter [Darwich]; Polity Press [Held]; Global Policy [Held]; Cambridge University Press series
on National Security and Intelligence in the Middle East and North Africa [Jones]; Palgrave series
Rethinking Political Violence [Mac Ginty]; The British Journal of Middle Eastern Studies
[Ehteshami]; Contemporary Arab Affairs [Ehteshami]; Contemporary South Asia [Gregory];
Electoral Studies [Vivyan]; European Journal of Political Research [Morgan-Collins]; Fathom
[Jones]; Insight Turkey [Murphy]; Israel Studies Forum [Jones]; Manchester University Press
Rethinking Borders Series [Demetriou]; Mediterranean Politics [Murphy]; The Middle East Journal
[Ehteshami]; Political Geography Research [Ehteshami]; Public Anthropologist [Demetriou, reviews
editor]; Journal of Social Sciences [Murphy]; Studies in Conflict and Terrorism [Jones].

And SGIA staff regularly review for high-quality journals (e.g. American Political Science Review,
American Journal of Political Science, British Journal of Political Science, Journal of Politics,
Political Analysis, Comparative Political Studies, Public Administration, European Union Politics,
European Journal of Research, Political Studies, European Journal of International Relations,
European Journal of Political Theory, Journal of Social Philosophy) and for leading academic
presses (Oxford University Press, Cambridge University Press, Routledge, Palgrave, Polity, etc).

SGIA staff also participated on grant-awarding committees: Williams, Cohen and Murphy as
Members of the ESRC Peer Review College; Cohen is a Member of the ESRC Centres Competition
Assessment Panel since 2018; Ehteshami is member of the GCRF peer review college; Finlay is a
member of the DU ESRC Impact Acceleration Account Steering Group. SGIA staff also regularly
perform grant reviewing roles, including internationally: KU Leuven [Baron]; National Science
Centre, Poland (Darwich, Finlay); Carnegie Corporation, New York, Transnational Movements and
the Arab Region Programme (Darwich); Norwegian Research Council (Jones); Israel Science
Foundation (Finlay); Leverhulme (Jones); AHRC (Jones); ESRC-DFID Joint Fund for Poverty
Alleviation Research Grants Call 2013-14 (Bakonyi); British Academy: Tackling the UK's
International Challenges Call 2018 (Bakonyi); ESRC Trust and Global Governance Large Grant
2018 (Bakonyi); British Academy Conflict, Stability, & Security section (Kappler); ESRC (Kappler,
Vivyan); German Research Foundation grant reviewer (Baron).

Fellowships and Prizes

SGIA staff have held Fellowships at prestigious institutions, including the Wei Lun Distinguished
Visiting Professorship ay Tsinghua University (16th in QS World University Ranking 2020)
(Cheung); Hebrew University of Jerusalem (Baron & Wittlinger); University of British Columbia
[Baron]; GIGA German Institute for Global and Area Studies, University of Bari Aldo Mora (Italy);
LSE (Darwich); LUISS University, Rome (Held); Norwegian University of Science and Technology

                                                                                                   17
(NTNU) (Jones); American Institute for Contemporary German Studies, Washington; Oxford Centre
for Hebrew and Judaic Studies [Baron]; Center for International Studies, and UCL (Held). Members
of SGIA staff are Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences (Murphy, Ehteshami), Royal Historical
Society (Jones, Gregory), and the Royal Society of Arts (Murphy, Ehteshami).

SGIA research excellence has been recognised by prestigious prizes: the APSA Best Paper
Award 2017, Women in Politics Research section (Morgan-Collins); Virginie Mamadouh
Outstanding Research Award, Political Geography Specialty Group, American Association of
Geographers 2019 (Belcher); the 2020 SIGCIS Mahoney Prize for an outstanding article in the
history of computing and information technology (Belcher); the Asian Pacific Americans Association
Best Paper Award, 2016 Western Political Science Association Annual Conference (Visalvanich).
Williams’ 2015 monograph was nominated by OUP for the inaugural ECPR Hedley Bull Prize for
International Relations. One of our PGRs (Alice Alunni) won a University Award for Impact (2018)
for her work with Government, Security and Consultancy bodies on Managing risk in Libya and the
Middle East.




                                                                                               18
