Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: University of Brighton
Unit of assessment: UoA32 – Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory
1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Art and Design research at the University of Brighton (UoB) is located in a mature environment
shaped by its unique history and underpinned by three essential intellectual commitments. First, to
bring creative practices together with rigorous historical and theoretical scholarship, recognising
the distinctive contribution of each and their capacity for productive exchange. Second, to support
and encourage collaboration across disciplines and with professional practice, user communities
and diverse stakeholders, recognising the reciprocity of such engagements and their capacity to
deliver social and cultural value. Third, to foster an open and inclusive research culture, one that
embraces a diversity of research practices and career pathways and supports researchers at all
stages, from doctoral study to international research leadership.

Our research community is organised into three major thematic groupings: Design History, Visual
and Material Culture; Arts Practices, Meaning and Making; and Architecture and Design:
Communities and Sustainability. In each we have a critical mass of researchers and an
established research profile, sustained across previous research assessments.

1.1. Context and structure
Art and Design comprises 73 staff researchers (54.11 FTE), including eight Professors, and 56
doctoral students. Our three thematic groupings are complemented by two University Centres of
Research and Enterprise Excellence – the Centre for Design History (CDH) and the Centre for Arts
and Wellbeing (CAW) – and enriched by the distinctive infrastructure of the new Brighton Centre
for Contemporary Arts (CCA), the nationally accredited and award-winning University of Brighton
Design Archives (UoBDA), and Screen Archive South East (SASE).

Design History, Visual and Material Culture (25 researchers [19.3 FTE], including four
Professors; 29 doctoral students): Building on Brighton’s long-standing reputation in design history,
submitted under the ‘History, Culture and Heritage’ theme in REF 2014, the Centre for Design
History (Director, Pollen) represents the culmination of the strategic direction we have pursued
over more than 30 years. Launched in 2017, CDH set an ambitious agenda for the next stage of
development, with an explicit commitment to internationalising design history. In the past five
years, CDH has worked with researchers at institutions including the Bauhaus Museum, Weimar;
National Institute of Design, Ahmedabad; Parsons New School, New York; Papanek Foundation,
University of Applied Arts, Vienna; Tsuda University, Tokyo; and University of São Paulo, with
which UoB recently signed a memorandum of understanding (September 2020), led by CDH and
prioritising research collaboration.

CDH has particular strengths in transnational modernisms, fashion and dress history, and museum
and exhibition histories. Key achievements include major monographs on design and visual culture
in 1960s Beirut (El Maasri) and fashion and everyday life in New York and London (Buckley), the
latter commended for providing ‘a complex panorama, a kaleidoscope of experience to recreate
the actual feel of fashion’ (Fashion Theory); an award-winning book and accompanying exhibition
at Whitechapel Gallery on The Kibbo Kift Kindred (Pollen), acknowledged as ‘a revelation’ in its
reconstruction of ‘a radical moment lost to history’ (The Guardian); an exhibition on leading modern
poster designer Julius Klinger at the Wolfsonian, Florida (Aynsley); edited collections on Paris
fashion under Nazi occupation (McLoughlin) and cultures of decolonisation (Wintle); and design
historical studies of Misha Black (Atkinson), and Kenneth Clark’s role in design policy and
promotion during the 1930s (Breakell). The work of CDH is complemented by our research on
visual and material culture, including an edited collection on feminist art practices in the Middle
East and North Africa (Özpınar); photography-based studies of the legacy of nitrate mining in Chile
and post-conflict heritage (Purbrick); and interdisciplinary research that breaks new ground in the
study of African photographies (Newbury), recognised in an award from the Royal Anthropological
Institute.

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Arts Practices, Meaning and Making (31 researchers [22.3 FTE], including two Professors; 15
doctoral students): Developing the ‘Performance, Making and Meaning’ research theme in REF
2014, this grouping has continued to foster practice-based research development and innovation,
enhance aesthetic experiences for a range of audiences, and contribute to the knowledge base
around artistic practices and their social value in national and international settings. It also provided
the intellectual impetus for an innovative new interdisciplinary Centre for Arts and Wellbeing
(Director, Bullen), which evolved from the research agenda of our theme of ‘Inclusion, Health and
Wellbeing’ in REF 2014 (see below).

Key achievements in arts practice research include an influential publication on inclusive arts and
collaborative performances impacting on practice and policy in the UK and Southeast Asia (Fox),
recognised by a Times Higher Education award for Excellence and Innovation in the Arts; cultural,
environmental and geological narratives of place, including a commission to mark the 200th
anniversary of Ruskin’s birth by revisiting the French Alps (Stibbon), resulting in artworks that
‘reveal a stark depiction of how climate change has taken its toll on the glaciated landscape’ (The
Guardian); experimentation with narrative, continuity and sequence through collage (Rawle), which
in its published form has been described as ‘a beautiful book, not just in terms of its design, but in
its moral integrity’ (Times Literary Supplement); and interdisciplinary performance, dance and
screen dance attracting large audiences in Berlin, Havana, London, Madrid, Moscow and Seoul
(Cowie).

Our researchers have also made significant contributions on the history provincial British Art
Schools (Cornford); drawing and experience (Bullen) and drawing methodologies and practices in
education and health settings (Lyon); archival and practice-based photography research engaging
contested histories and memories (Ribas, Winckler); and contemporary media art in public spaces
(Sermon, Gould).

Architecture and Design: Communities and Sustainability (17 researchers [12.51 FTE],
including two Professors; 12 doctoral students): Bringing together longstanding research and
impact initiatives, this grouping strengthens research submitted under ‘Sustainable Development
and Climate Change’ and ‘Agency, Society and Space’ in REF 2014. Design research is focused
on the principles and practices of design applied to the complex challenges of health, wellbeing
and community. Sustainability research engages with communities from Sussex to Africa and Asia,
responding to problems such as waste and pollution, urban food production and population
displacement, seeking new architectural and design solutions, and exploiting new opportunities
through re-making, maker-spaces and ‘circular’ methods. This grouping supports experimental and
practice-led research alongside contributions to history and theory.

Key achievements in architecture and design include RIBA and UN award-winning publications on
urban agriculture and sustainability (Viljoen, Bohn); research on design and the circular economy
(Baker-Brown), recognised by RIBA design and sustainability awards (for Little England Farm);
new design solutions for spaces of learning and environmental technologies for sustainable
housing (Hayhurst), recognised by awards including Architects’ Journal Top 10 buildings of 2016
(for Garden House) and Architectural Review Schools Award (for Whitehorse Manor School);
experimental architectural projects such as A House for Essex (Holland), shortlisted for the
prestigious Mies van der Rohe European Award for Architecture; and architectural responses to
the refugee crisis in Europe (Mull), findings from which have been exhibited at the Barbican, the
Oslo Architecture Triennale and will be shown at the Venice Architecture Biennale in 2021.

Our architecture and design researchers are also engaged in work on fashion design and ageing
(Haffenden); place-making and community wellbeing (Gant); historical architectural practices
(Amhoff); design and ethics (Sweeting); and urban mobilities (Robertson, Kutz).

Interdisciplinarity: Consolidating our commitment to interdisciplinary and collaborative research
practices, CAW was launched in 2019 as a focal point for arts health and wellbeing research
through creative and participatory methods. The centre is underpinned by a collaborative ethos
and brings together colleagues in the arts, humanities, social and natural sciences across UoB and
                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Brighton and Sussex Medical School (BSMS). Collaboration with external partners, including local
and regional health trusts and SMEs, enables art and design researchers and practitioners to work
with clinicians, allied health professionals, patients, and technology specialists and entrepreneurs
to deliver benefits for health and wellbeing.

Art and design staff and doctoral students also collaborate with colleagues in other UoB research
centres, including the Centre for Memory, Narrative and Histories, the Centre for Spatial,
Environmental and Cultural Politics and the Centre for Transforming Sexuality and Gender.

1.2. Research and impact strategy
Strategic developments since 2014: The period has been one of institutional consolidation,
including a major UoB strategy review and resulting Research and Enterprise Strategic Plan (2017
– 2021), which has been instrumental in guiding the shape of this submission. Most notably, we
established two new research centres located in our core areas of art and design expertise – CDH
and CAW (each supported by £25k p.a.) – alongside the creation of Brighton CCA as a key feature
of our research infrastructure together with UoBDA and SASE. A strategic decision to refocus our
research in the primary art and design disciplines has enabled us to consolidate longstanding
research strengths, whilst maintaining our commitment to interdisciplinarity and cross-disciplinary
engagement and building on our distinctive contribution to the research and impact landscape. It
has provided an opportunity to promote new forms of research, for example on wellbeing, and to
establish a stronger external profile for art and design research and its users.

For REF2021, consequently, we have redistributed our arts and humanities research between
Units of Assessment (UoAs) D32 and D34. The art and design submission is now placed more
centrally within the remit of UoA D32, and the D34 submission embraces a number of research
staff with a focus on cultural studies previously submitted to art and design.

In addition to the establishment of the two new centres and Brighton CCA, since 2014 we have
invested staff time and resources in the following strategic priorities:
    • Nurturing long-term research and impact generating partnerships with organisations in the
        creative and cultural sector, leading to mutual benefits that span the practice-research
        boundary. Evidenced by our record of collaborative research and doctoral projects, co-
        curated exhibitions and public performances.
    • Increased commitment and support for key projects with significant impact potential,
        alongside the development of enabling mechanisms and dedicated funding streams to
        embed impact across our research activity. Evidenced by the global reach of our impact in
        inclusive arts and urban agriculture and widespread recognition of the social, cultural and
        economic value of our research.
    • Implementation of an expanded and more systematic approach to supporting staff
        development through research to create an inclusive environment in which all our
        researchers can advance their careers and produce high quality outputs. Evidenced by a
        new research mentoring scheme, external grant successes by staff supported through
        internal schemes, and external leadership roles held by senior researchers.
    • Development of our PhD programme through growth in funded PhD student numbers and
        an expansion in collaborative doctoral projects. Evidenced by participation in Doctoral
        Training Partnerships alongside funded UoB studentships (total AHRC and UoB investment
        of £2.5M in PGR), and establishment of collaborative doctoral awards as a distinctive
        feature of our provision (approximately 20% of current registrations).
    • Maximising the value of our unique research infrastructure to shape research agendas and
        future art and design practice. Evidenced by UoBDA leadership of influential research on
        digital archives and an award for innovation in design education, and research
        collaborations and public programmes supported by CCA and SASE.

Our successes in these areas are enabled by a revised set of UoB research support structures to
foster a dynamic environment and enable world-leading research, impact and researcher
development (see REF5a).
                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Enabling impact: Impact has been enabled through partnerships, the exploitation of key
resources and infrastructure, and strategic funding initiatives.

We have built on existing partnerships through staff exchanges and secondments, collaboration on
curatorial and exhibition projects, and collaborative doctoral partnerships, with organisations
including the De La Warr Pavilion, the Design Museum, the Royal Pavilion and Museums, Brighton
and Hove (RPMBH), Tate and the Victoria & Albert Museum. At the same time, we have formed
new relationships with, for example, the British Museum, Royal Botanical Gardens, Kew, and
commercial partners such as Philips Lighting.

Our Impact Case Study [ICS_Design Archives] demonstrates how this unique resource has
provided a platform for impact on archival practices and public audiences, working in partnership
with leading professional archive bodies, and cultural organisations such as the Jewish Museum,
London. Equally, collaboration with the Wolfsonian, Florida International University and
Whitechapel Gallery was central to research impact deepening public understandings of history
and culture through design [ICS_Design History].

The impact of photography research has involved partnership with the community-based District
Six Museum, South Africa (a member of the International Coalition of Sites of Conscience), the
Museo de la Solidaridad Salvador Allende, Chile, and the cultural organisation Alliance Française,
Toronto, as well as mining and environmental activist groups, such as Chile Sustentable. Close
and respectful collaboration, and equal recognition of skills and knowledge, has enabled our
research to make a meaningful contribution to processes of public history and cultural memory,
and debates around place and identity [ICS_Photography].

In several cases, the key to impact has been the strategic use of QR funds to enable actions that
facilitate the move from concept to practice or from practice to policy. Strategic impact funding
helped to consolidate partnerships with the British Council and the Korean Disability Arts and
Culture Center and underpinned the development of training for a wider group of arts and cultural
organisations across Southeast Asia [ICS_Inclusive Arts]. Research on urban food futures
evidences a similar development, where the Continuous Productive Urban Landscape (CPUL)
concept has influenced the design of urban spaces in Berlin, Heidelberg and Tokyo, and led to the
creation and enhancement of urban food policies in major cities, including in Cologne and Brighton
[ICS_Urban Food Futures].

To embed impact across our research, in 2017 UoB set up a dedicated Impact Development Fund.
This has been used, for example, to extend the reach of Guernica Remakings (Ashmore), an
activist art project, creating social and economic benefits for marginalised communities in South
Africa; and to support Rawle in the development of an innovative experimental film based on his
acclaimed collaged novel Woman’s World, benefitting the independent cinema sector.

In response to COVID-19, some funds have been directed to urgent projects on the impact of the
pandemic. This includes research into how museums frame and promote their digital versions in
the context of the crisis, and a practical initiative responding to the challenge of remote studio-
based working and virtual environments as spaces for art and media production. An AHRC
COVID-19 Rapid Response grant will enable research on new ways of presenting theatre, dance
and performance arts (Sermon).

Ethics and integrity: Research in art and design is guided by UoB’s Codes of Practice on
Research Integrity and Research Ethics. A tiered system of ethical review was introduced in 2014,
supported by training and a dedicated Research and Integrity officer. As a minimum, all staff
research projects have to be reviewed at tier one by School-based panels. Research requiring
review at tier two is handled by a Cross-School Arts and Humanities Ethics Committee, ensuring
sensitivity to disciplinary differences and traditions, including the creative and participatory
methods distinctive to the field. All postgraduate researchers (PGRs) undertake mandatory ethics
and integrity training.


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Open research: UoB is committed to open access principles and has upgraded its research
repository to facilitate the accessibility of research outcomes. In art and design, there has been
particular attention to developing a consistent digital format for the communication, dissemination
and portability of practice outputs, making visible the rich variety of non-text-based thinking and
knowledge generation. Consequently, all our practice outputs submitted to REF 2021 are openly
available through the research repository. Together with journal articles, this means around 60% of
the submission is open access, the only exceptions being books or book chapters. We have also
maintained access to our unique resources for researchers and the public, including an extensive
programme of loans from UoBDA to national and international venues, and the development of
innovative forms of digital access for design archives.

Research strategy 2025: Looking forward, our research strategy is defined by the revitalisation of
our research infrastructure since 2017, a commitment to developing the next generation of
researchers, and collaborative working with other institutions and external partners to deliver
leading research with impact. Specifically, we intend to:

Increase our global influence in areas of strength through continued investment in research
centres. This will enable us to: (i) extend our distinctive focus on international and transnational
histories of design, visual and material culture and photography; (ii) consolidate our reputation as a
centre for innovative research connecting the arts with health, wellbeing and sustainability; (iii)
maintain our reputation for art and design research and practice that is challenging, provocative
and generates new knowledge and new aesthetic experiences.

Ensure the vitality and relevance of our research by maximising the value of our cultural assets.
We will: (i) use our expertise in design archives to develop future research bids on digital archive
processes and artist-archive collaborations; (ii) develop our programme of public-facing, research-
led events through CCA to raise the profile of art and design research and as a platform for new
partnerships in the creative sector; (iii) invest £500k internal income and £100k external funding
per year in the staff and estate of CCA, UoBDA and SASE.

Extend the reach and significance of our research through collaboration and partnerships. We will:
(i) maintain our long-term strategic partnerships with creative sector organisations through new
collaborative research and doctoral projects; (ii) ensure the continued impact of research in urban
design and sustainability through leadership of national and international projects and networks,
working with government, community and industry stakeholders; (iii) broaden our engagement with
industrial and commercial partners by establishing a minimum of five new partnerships.

Develop the next generation of researchers to ensure the long-term sustainability of art and design
research. We will: (i) maintain our high level of participation in DTP and CDP programmes; (ii) build
on this platform to grow our number of PhD students by 25% and increase the diversity of our
student body; (iii) continue to innovate in collaborative and practice-based models of doctoral
study; (iv) increase our investment in support for new and early-career staff and practitioners
moving into research.

2. People

2.1. Staff
Staffing strategy and profile: We recognise that research career pathways in art and design are
diverse with no single route to success and a highly permeable boundary between the academy
and professional and artistic practice.

The submission contains 14 new members of staff appointed during the period. At professorial
level, Aynsley was appointed in 2014 to lead the development of design history; and, in 2016,
Holland was appointed as Adjunct Professor of Architecture to provide new leadership in
architectural practice research. New appointments, including ECRs, have added to our capacity in
inclusive arts (Lloyd ECR), arts practice (Gould, Hagen) and photography (Bull, Childerley,

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Johannesson ECR), as well as in design history, where Rumball (ECR) and El Maasri were
appointed shortly after completing PhDs at Brighton.

Including these appointments, the Category A submitted staff profile comprises 12.7 FTE
Professors/Senior Academics, 11.8 FTE Principal Lecturers/Readers, 29.5 FTE Senior Research
Fellows/Senior Lecturers/Lecturers. We are committed to nurturing the next generation of
researchers and eight members of staff have completed doctorates, of whom three are classified
as ECRs according to the REF definition. A further five staff were formerly ECRs during the period.

Over 98% of staff are permanent, and 58.3% are on fractional contracts. This profile reflects a
combination of staff working part-time in line with UoB’s Flexible Working and Work-Life Balance
policies, and a significant proportion who work between the academy and the world of professional
practice in the museum and creative arts sector. The latter include leading researchers who
maintain architecture and design practices (eg Baker-Brown, Hayhurst, Holland) as well as
exhibiting and performing artists (eg Cowie, Stibbon, Ribas). We benefit enormously from the
vitality and insights they bring to research, and at the same time this provides a pathway to impact.
Our part-time staff can apply to all internal funding streams and have full access to research
development opportunities.

We also employ strategic initiatives to build links with practice. For example, Keeper of World Art at
Brighton Museum & Art Gallery, Helen Mears, undertook a part-time collaborative doctorate with us
based on material held at the museum; and, in parallel, was seconded as 0.5 Lecturer in the
History of Art and Design in the School of Humanities (2016 – 2018), further enhancing the
benefits of exchange between academic and professional museum worlds.

Equality and diversity: Creating an inclusive environment is a core value of UoB, and in all
aspects of our staffing we are committed to equality, diversity and inclusion, as recognised by a
range of external charter marks, including a Race Equality Charter Bronze Award and an HR
Excellence in Research Award. In 2019 we were recognised as a Stonewall Top 100 employer.

Comparison with Advance HE data shows that our art and design staff base aligns with the sector
average for declared disabilities (sector 6.8%; UoB 6.8%), has a slightly higher proportion
identifying as female (sector 52%; UoB 54%), and a slightly lower proportion identifying as BAME
(sector 8.7%; UoB 6.3%). Comparing this profile with staff submitted to REF indicates that women
(58.3%) and staff identifying as BAME (9.7%) are slightly more likely, and staff with a declared
disability slightly less likely (5.6%), to have significant responsibility for research (SRfR). An
equalities audit on output selection showed that whilst female researchers were marginally less
likely to have more than two outputs selected, they were three times as likely to have five outputs
selected.

Actions to ensure equality, diversity and inclusion are taken at several levels. UoB has policies and
procedures on flexible and remote working career pathways for part-time and fixed-term staff,
support for staff with caring responsibilities or ill health, those returning from periods of leave, and
staff with protected characteristics. We are committed to taking action through our UoB staffing
policy and Race Equality Charter Action Plan to ensure the inclusion of staff of colour. Across art
and design, schools have taken the following specific actions to ensure an inclusive research
environment: encouraging under-represented groups to undertake UoB research leadership
training, including funding a professorial development programme for non-professorial senior staff
(women and BAME focus); an audit of supervisory teams to ensure an inclusive approach to
supervisory team composition; and use of research funding to support re-engagement in research
for colleagues who have taken parental leave, including reduced teaching loads.

We also recognise the unequal challenges faced by staff having to work remotely during the
COVID-19 pandemic and have put in place mechanisms to support continued engagement with
research. This includes the purchase and delivery of additional equipment and furniture where
appropriate.


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Staff development: We invest in our staff to achieve their potential as researchers, to build
research capacity, and to underpin succession planning. Career pathways and systems of support
are designed to facilitate research career development for staff at all levels, and staff have access
to a Researcher Development Programme tailored to career stage and discipline. In the current
period, 16 submitted staff have been promoted (13 female, three male): nine to Senior Lecturer,
five to Principal Lecturer (Lee, Sweeting, Tooze, Winckler, Wintle), one to Reader, and
subsequently taking the role of Director of CDH (Pollen), and one to Professor (Viljoen).

Early-career researchers: UoB operates an inclusive, self-identifying early career definition to
allow us to support the full range of ECRs, including those new to research from practice. ECRs
have formal representation at all levels in our research structures, including a representative on
School Research and Enterprise Committees, a UoB ECR ambassador, and a network of School-
based ECR leads who organise events and advise the University on ECR matters. In art and
design, support has included specific workshops on topics including research funding and
publication, and the organisation of research exhibitions to profile practice-based research.

UoB’s Rising Stars scheme provides awards of up to £10k to assist newer researchers to gain
experience of managing and leading research and impact projects (2014 – 2020: 100% of art and
design awards went to female staff). The awards are explicitly developmental, facilitating individual
research careers. They provide a platform and evidence of institutional support to enable
researchers to gain external funding or recognition, for example:
   • Atkinson’s award for work on propaganda exhibition histories enabled the development of
       a successful AHRC Fellowship application on modernist exhibitions in Britain. (Atkinson
       worked in cultural policy before joining UoB as a Fellow in UoBDA and is now a Senior
       Lecturer.)
   • Ashmore’s award for the creative practice project Guernica Remakings led to two grants
       from AHRC on the role of art in sustainable international development, and the capacity of
       collaborative making practices to empower communities and foster solidarity.

Sabbaticals: The UoB Sabbatical Research Leave scheme enables established research staff to
take a period away from their substantive role to complete a substantial research output or major
grant proposal, or for a period of creative practice (2014 – 2020: 64% of art and design sabbatical
awards went to female staff). Major projects enabled through this scheme include Cornford’s
study of art school sites in North West England, which led to a touring exhibition (2018 – 2020),
supported by Arts Council England; the development by Francis of a monograph on ‘Mixed Forms’
in visual culture; and Southall’s testing of a prototype ventilation system to reduce heating
consumption, as part of experimental practice using the Brighton Waste House.

All UoB research funding initiatives are subject to annual equality and inclusion audits which are
reported to the UoB Research and Enterprise Committee as basis for adjustment and future action
planning.

QR funds for staff development: In addition to UoB initiatives and training programmes, all
Schools have mechanisms for the distribution of QR funding to support research career
development. The Schools in which art and design researchers are based receive a total of £630k
QR funds p.a., which is allocated through transparent processes managed by School Research
and Enterprise Committees. In addition to supporting staff time for research, these funds are used
to promote initiatives from the ground up and address staff development needs in ways that are
attentive to specific disciplinary or practice demands. Researchers can apply for: visiting archives;
conducting fieldwork; attending workshops or meetings to develop external research and
enterprise partnerships; hosting meetings with external partners; materials; image rights; teaching
cover to complete a funding application; and costs associated with developing research impact.
Also supported are writing retreats to support co-authorship, and a mini-sabbatical scheme to
support knowledge exchange. A further £26k has supported staff attendance at conferences over
the past three years through a centrally administered scheme.


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Mentoring: In 2016-17, UoB introduced a dedicated Research Mentoring scheme, with a lead in
each School who is supported to gain accreditation with the internationally recognised KMP+
Mentoring Programme. The scheme is open to staff at all career stages to support the
achievement of research career goals, with a proactive approach towards matching staff new to
research with more experienced colleagues. Currently over 70 staff across art and design are
benefitting from this scheme, with over 50 staff acting as mentors.

Support for practice-based researchers: Given the varied research career pathways in art and
design, supporting staff to gain doctorates is an important part of our approach. This includes staff
with established careers in professional research and practice domains. Since 2014, eight
members of submitted staff have been awarded a PhD or PhD by Publication, including Findley for
her study of embodied materiality, grief and memory; Kappenberg for her practice-based study of
performance; and Winckler for an archival and photographic project. Furthermore, we have
increased recognition of career portfolios of practice as a basis for PhD by Publication. Five
established researchers, including staff members and external applicants, have achieved the
award based on a portfolio of creative practice research in the public domain, including Sermon,
whose telematic art installations have been pioneering in the field of electronic arts.

2.2. Research students
A thriving community of postgraduate researchers (PGRs) is a vital component of our research
environment and part of our commitment to the next generation of researchers. This has been a
key strategic priority and a major area of investment, especially through AHRC Doctoral Training
Partnerships (DTPs). Steady growth over the past two assessment cycles means we now have a
large, interdisciplinary PGR community, spanning the arts and humanities and encompassing
innovative forms of practice-based research alongside critical, theoretical and historical
approaches. There are 56 PGRs currently in art and design. Recognising that there has been
redistribution of our staff across UoAs since REF 2014, this represents an increase in students in
the core art and design disciplines. Completions in art and design have increased during the period
from 37.5 in 2014 to 43.33 in this submission.

Alongside continuing to grow our PGR community and maintaining good completion rates, we have
pursued a number of strategic objectives, namely to:
   • increase the proportion of externally funded studentships, including but not limited to our
       engagement in cross-university DTP consortia
   • extend our commitment to collaborative doctoral projects
   • develop strategies and skills to enhance the impact of doctoral research
   • support students to pursue a range of postdoctoral careers

We have made significant progress in each of these areas. Since 2014, we have secured AHRC
funding for 33 new studentships in art and design, joining 15 from the last REF cycle submitting in
this period. Additionally, UoB funded 16 new studentships in art and design, including several
linked to our internationalising design history agenda. In total, this represents new investment of
over £2.5 million in our art and design PGR community.

Collaboration through AHRC DTPs has underpinned our progress. Since 2013, with the first cohort
starting in 2014, we have been members of technē, a DTP led by Royal Holloway; and Design
Star, a specialist AHRC Doctoral Training Centre, led by University of Reading. In 2018, technē
was successful in securing funding of more than £18 million for a further five cohorts starting in
2019-20 (57 studentships per cohort), one of only ten AHRC DTPs. In this second phase, we have
integrated our work in design history and practice previously located within Design Star, ensuring
continuity and maximising the value of our participation. Over the seven years of technē we have
been awarded 40 studentships across the arts and humanities, of which 12 were in art and design,
including 4 collaborative awards with partner organisations. In the five years of Design Star we
were awarded 14 studentships.



                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We have sought to maximise the strategic benefits of consortium membership for our recruitment
and for the experience of our wider PGR cohort through collaboration with colleagues at partner
universities and cultural organisations, and participation in shared events. UoB organised and
hosted two technē student congresses over the period – ‘Archive Fever’ (2015) and ‘Poetics of
Method’ (2019) – and one Design Star Summer School (2017).

In addition to our engagement in DTP consortia, we have pursued a range of other collaborative
doctoral opportunities and partnerships in the creative, cultural and heritage sector. We have
hosted a further 11 projects through the AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award (CDA) and
Collaborative Doctoral Partnership (CDP) schemes (7 new awards; 4 from the previous cycle
submitting during the current period), including with Belfast Exposed Gallery, British Museum,
Imperial War Museums (IWM) and National Science and Media Museum (NSMM).

All students can access training for impact and public engagement. There is a dedicated AHRC
DTP placement funding scheme, and UoB has run its own doctoral placement scheme funded by
Santander. Students have undertaken placements at the British Library, English Heritage, National
Museums Scotland, the National Museum of African Art, Smithsonian and the Library of Congress.
Doctoral student careers are supported through our researcher development programme and a
doctoral student specific course is offered on preparing to teach. UoB also has a dedicated
conference support fund to enable PGRs to disseminate their research and build academic and
professional networks.

Many of our doctoral graduates go on to take up careers in academia and in the art and design
sector in the UK and elsewhere, as illustrated by the following:
   • Dr Zeina El Maasri, a Brighton funded student, was appointed Senior Lecturer in the
        School of Humanities in 2019. A monograph based on her doctorate, submitted to REF,
        was published by University of Cambridge Press (2020).
   • Dr Sarah Tuck completed a collaborative doctoral project in 2015 and subsequently took up
        a postdoctoral position on Photography and Human Rights with Valand Academy,
        University of Gothenburg, and the Hasselblad Foundation in Sweden. She is now Head of
        Department, Fine Art and Craft, HDK-Valand, University of Gothenburg.
   • Dr Ignacio Acosta, an AHRC funded student, published the photobook Copper
        Geographies (2019) stemming from his doctoral research, and in 2020 received the ZF Art
        Foundation Scholarship with a subsequent exhibition and publication at the Zeppelin
        Museum, Germany.
   • Dr Tom Wilson, who completed a collaborative doctoral project with the Design Museum
        was subsequently appointed Head of Collection and Research at the Design Museum.
   • Dr Jeremiah Ambrose, who completed a practice-based project on interactive 360
        environments is now Senior Lecturer in Film and Digital Art, UCA Farnham.

Research students in art and design benefit from the supportive context provided by the Brighton
Doctoral College (BDC), which leads strategic direction and oversight for doctoral education at
UoB (see REF5a). BDC is responsible for the academic health of doctoral study at Brighton and
oversees all recruitment processes and outcomes to ensure fairness and transparency, including
with respect to protected characteristics.

BDC monitors the characteristics of the research student body, reporting annually. Comparison
with latest Advance HE figures for research students in the creative arts and design indicates that
in the art and design schools at UoB we have a significantly higher proportion of female students
(UoB 71.8%; sector 57.7%), a slightly higher proportion of UK domiciled students identifying as
BAME (UoB 13.7%; sector 11.2%); and a comparable proportion of students declaring a disability
(UoB 16.2%; sector 17.6%). The latter two indicators are both up from 6.6% in 2013-14,
demonstrating our progress in ensuring a more inclusive PGR community.

BDC works with the Student Services Department to deliver comprehensive online and in person
well-being support for doctoral students. Student Support and Guidance Tutors in each school are
trained in understanding the doctoral journey, and we have a counsellor dedicated to doctoral
                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
students. Under COVID-19, BDC worked to ensure that all doctoral students have continuity of
support and advice through the crisis. Specific measures include: additional stipend payments and
fee-waivers of up to six months for all students disrupted by COVID-19 in their final year,
regardless of funding source, which went beyond UKRI requirements to ensure equitable treatment
across the student body; fee waivers for self-funded students who require COVID-19 related
extensions; a Doctoral Resources Fund to support the purchase of small items to facilitate remote
working; online workshops, including on adapting projects to COVID-19; and monthly meetings
with PGR reps. This provision has been recognised by two awards to the BDC from the University
Alliance, for professionalism and integrity.

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1. Income
Since 2014, researchers in art and design have been awarded grant spend over £1.8 million, from
sources including the AHRC, EU government bodies, major charities, arts organisations, local,
national and international industry sources. Our strategy for generating research funding is multi-
faceted and inclusive. Alongside a primary aim to increase the volume and quality of our research
through large research grants, we seek to align funding with our research values and strategic
goals. Major fellowship awards have facilitated research leadership and development.
Collaborative bids with national and international partners and research network awards have
underpinned the delivery of impact and public engagement. All new researchers can access
mentoring support when making external funding applications and our Rising Stars scheme is
specifically targeted at enabling new researchers to gain their first grant. We have achieved a grant
success rate over the period of 28.6%, with awards gained by both new and experienced
researchers (42% of grants are held by female staff).

Research Council funding has enabled the development of a number of major projects, achieving
significant impact in their fields. Traces of Nitrate: History and Photography Between Britain and
Chile (Ribas, Purbrick; AHRC £264k + £80k follow-on), a multi-dimensional project exploring the
histories and legacies of nitrate mining, resulted in 15 exhibitions and 15 publications, with venues
including Museu d'Art Contemporani de Barcelona, Bluecoat, Liverpool, and Museo de Arte
Contemporáneo, Santiago. Follow-on funding engaged new audiences in Europe and South
America and led to the donation of photographic work to the permanent collection of Museo de la
Solidaridad Salvador Allende. In addition to giving greater visibility to mining histories, the project
established new connections between environmental organisations, activists, academics and
artists, and contributed to public debates about the impact of mining on communities and the
environment [ICS_Photography].

A Fellowship award (AHRC £130k) on the visual and material culture of British woodcraft groups
facilitated Pollen’s progression from early career researcher to established authority. It resulted in
a book and exhibition (Whitechapel Gallery, 2015 – 2016) illuminating a largely forgotten aspect of
British cultural history and provided multiple opportunities for public engagement and research
impact, including inspiring new fashion designs [ICS_Design History] and linking to a Heritage
Lottery funded project to mark the 90th anniversary of the Woodcraft Folk. Other major awards
underpinning significant career development include Atkinson (AHRC £174k) and Ashmore
(AHRC £80k + £80k follow-on) (see section two).

In museum practice, Perry’s Digital Prospects for Inclusive Historic Museums (AHRC £64k)
brought together the De La Warr Pavilion, Bexhill, the Peale Center, Baltimore, and RPMBH to
provide new insights into how digital interfaces can enhance relationships between civic historic
museums and their audiences.

Funding has enabled us to extend our academic networks and other stakeholder partnerships in
urban design and architecture influencing the work of public authorities, industry, NGOs and
communities. Viljoen’s Urban Transformations project (AHRC £29k), brought together a
multidisciplinary group of UK and European academics and practitioners working on a new urban
space type – productive urban landscapes – to generate pathways to policy for sustainable
                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
development. Participants included Urbaniahoeve, a social design lab for urban agriculture in the
Netherlands, Policy Director of Food Matters, and Swiss multi-disciplinary practice Verzone Woods
Architectes. Bohn leads our participation in the related Edible Cities Network (Horizon 2020
£145k), an international consortium of experts from different societal sectors and disciplines in
Europe, Africa, Latin America and East Asia. The project is helping to shape urban food policies
through its network of communities committed to creating more sustainable, liveable and healthier
cities.

Two projects funded by Interreg Europe have enabled our architecture and design research to
have a significant impact on the construction industry (Baker-Brown). Sustainable Bio & Waste
Resources for Construction (£75k) is an academic-industry collaboration, with partners including
waste management company Veolia and the Alliance for Sustainable Building Products,
developing prototype panels of insulation material suitable for the social housing sector from bio-
based and waste materials. Facilitating the Circulation of Reclaimed Building Elements in
Northwestern Europe (£105k) is an international partnership that has developed a range of tools to
facilitate the integration of reclaimed building elements in new construction projects and influence
policy.

Research funding underpins international collaboration as a vital feature of our environment. Mull
is co-investigator on Displacement, Placemaking and Wellbeing in the City (AHRC £80k), a cross-
disciplinary project on refugees and forced displacement in Europe (Izmir, Lesbos), with partners
including Oslo School of Architecture, Design Migration Institute of Finland, Ambedkar University
and University of Sussex. A British Academy visiting fellowship enabled South African scholar Dr
Kylie Thomas to be hosted for six months, working with Newbury on photography, gender and
resistance, and a subsequent edited volume on women and photography in Africa. Winckler was
Co-Investigator on The Wished for City project at the University of Toronto (Social Sciences and
Humanities Research Council of Canada, C$220,000, 2013 – 2017), which led to a major
exhibition at the City of Toronto Archives on the child in the city (2016 – 2017).

Smaller grants include a Paul Mellon Centre mid-career fellowship for research on museum world
culture collections (Wintle); an Arts Council England grant for research on British Art Schools
(Cornford); a grant from the Lyndon B. Johnson Foundation for research on Cold War
photography (Newbury); funding from AHRC for a collaborative multimedia art installation in Delhi,
India, exploring the theme of inclusive future cities (Sermon); and a collaboration between Blight
and Kiera Blakey (curator) funded by Art on the Underground, exploring the theme of whiteness.

All staff are supported by UoB to make and manage research grant applications, with dedicated
pre- and post-award teams, and an internal peer review panel that draws on the experience of staff
with a track record of external funding to enhance the quality and success rate of applications.

3.2. Infrastructure and facilities
Unique cultural assets integral to our research are Brighton CCA, a centre for contemporary arts
with two galleries in the city centre, UoBDA and SASE. These also provide free and open
resources for other researchers and members of the public.

UoBDA, led by Breakell, is an internationally leading research base (opened in 1996) focusing on
British design and global design organisations in the twentieth century. Over the REF period,
UoBDA has received investment in excess of £1.4 million, including £60k p.a. (since 2016) from
UKRI Museums, Galleries and Collections Fund (next review 2022) and £120k p.a. of UoB QR
funding to support infrastructure and salaries. In 2018, UoBDA was awarded the Sir Misha Black
Award for Innovation in Design Education, for its ‘pioneering use of digital technologies’ and its
contribution to ‘a wider understanding of the material legacy of the past and its worth for the future’,
placing it at ‘the forefront of the history and interpretation of design in this country’ (Awards
Committee). In 2019, the archives were refurbished to provide a dedicated Research and Teaching
Room offering enhanced facilities for users; further estates developments are planned. In 2020,
UoBDA achieved National Archives Accreditation.

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Since 2014, the collections have been accessed by over 1,600 researchers and practitioners from
across the world and contributed to approximately 35 published outputs per year. Over the same
period, UoBDA has loaned over 350 items to 22 national and 33 international venues. UoBDA also
supports a programme of doctoral research projects and, through invitation and collaborative
initiatives, curates and contributes to major exhibitions, as well as a range of stewardship projects.

Recent exhibitions supported by the collections, include, among others: Victor Papanek: the
Politics of Design (2018 – 2020) at the Vitra Design Museum, Germany, touring to the Barcelona
Design Museum and the C-mine Design Centre, Belgium; Bauhaus Imaginista (2019), Haus der
Kulturen der Welt, Berlin, and touring; Design Research & its Participants (2016) commissioned to
celebrate the fiftieth anniversary conference of the Design Research Society, curated by Deputy
Curator Dr Lesley Whitworth; and Joseph Emberton: The Architecture of Display (2015) curated by
Breakell and former Curatorial Director Professor Catherine Moriarty for Pallant House Gallery,
Chichester. In 2017, UoBDA collaborated with the Jewish Museum, London on the exhibition
Designs on Britain, contributing curatorial research and a catalogue essay. Related research on
émigré designers by Breakell and Whitworth involved collaboration with the Insiders/Outsiders
festival, a nationwide event celebrating the contribution of refugees from Nazi Europe to British
culture.

UoBDA plays a leading role in archives research. Exploring British Design (AHRC £63k, 2014 –
2015) developed new methods of revealing design heritage and contributed to a better
understanding of digital archival processes, with implications for design research and the wider
digital humanities. UoBDA was an archive partner in the National Archives Safeguarding the
Nation’s Digital Memory and has influenced archiving policies and practice in China, India, Italy,
Japan, Malaysia and Sweden, as well as the UK [ICS_Design Archives]. Future QR funds have
been designated to deliver a digital strategy that includes research into the use of spatial and
temporal concepts to expand the work of collections documentation and visualise information
networks, enabling new methods of user engagement with the lives of heritage objects, archives
and buildings, and of the people, places and events that connect them across time.

UoBDA is complemented by SASE, as part of a shared research environment. Established in
1992, SASE is a publicly funded regional film archive operating in South East England and
dedicated to acquisition, preservation, documentation, research, access and outreach. SASE has
expertise in regional and national screen history, film curation and in the practices and processes
required to work with analogue and digital collections in a digital age. Its programme incorporates
British cinema, artists’ moving image, archive content, documentary and world cinema, providing a
valuable platform for researchers and filmmakers.

SASE is recognised by the British Film Institute (BFI) as a significant film archive collection (one of
10 in the UK). Employing 4.5 FTE staff, it has attracted over £2 million in public funding over the
period, and engaged audiences regionally, nationally and internationally (venue-based and online)
of over 38 million. Cinecity, launched by SASE in 2003, presents an annual film festival
showcasing new world cinema and archive restorations; it drew a paying audience of 104,000 in
the period 2013 to 2019.

Brighton CCA represents a major new investment during the period (£343k UoB; £50k external; 6.6
FTE staff) to create new and refurbished event and gallery spaces; it represents a strategic cultural
asset central to our research environment and the cultural sector of the city. It hosts world class
exhibitions, projects, commissions and research by emerging and established artists, and provides
a key pathway to research impact with programmes engaging staff, students and the public at the
intersections of creative practice, community engagement and research. In 2019-20, CCA received
over 10,000 visitors attending 55 theatre events and five gallery exhibitions, each with a distinct
research component in which external curators collaborate with UoB staff, students and community
partners.

Ashmore’s Guernica Remakings was launched at CCA’s Grand Parade gallery in 2017 before
touring to national and international venues. In 2018, the gallery was the venue for Marks Make
                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Meaning: Drawing Across Disciplines (curated by Bullen and Lyon), featuring the work of Anthony
Gormley and Rachel Whiteread, and the focus for a research symposium, with speakers including
Isabel Seligman, Bridget Riley Art Foundation Curator at the British Museum, and illustrator and
Emeritus Professor John Vernon Lord. The exhibition and symposium helped to shape the
research agenda and cross-disciplinary network that now forms a research strand within CAW.

CCA has an international exhibition programme that supports research. In 2020, a series initiated
in collaboration with UoBDA invited artists and designers to respond to the archives and develop
an exhibition combining findings and new work. Giles Round’s exhibition (2020) was first in the
series, accompanied by a published article on artists and archives co-authored by Breakell.
Collaborations are planned with Martino Gamper (2021) and Sara de Bondt (2022). The
programme aims to stimulate interdisciplinary research collaborations. For example, in 2020 artist
Nika Neelova was commissioned to produce a new large-scale installation in collaboration with
UoB’s Centre for Aquatic Environments, accompanied by a seminar on water scarcity and adaptive
bio technologies; and the Michael Clarke Company collaborated with researchers and invited
artists to explore the idea of visual language through a series of presentations, performances,
workshops and screenings.

UoB supports an extensive infrastructure for practice-based research, including strategic
investments to underpin specific research initiatives. Internal investment of £18k for a state-of-the-
art 4K Videoconferencing System has enabled research and creative practice, ranging from
performance and video installation to immersive videoconferencing and virtual reality studio
productions, and supported public exhibitions, performances and conferences. The investment
furthers the practice of researchers such as Sermon, Hagen, Cowie and Gould, facilitating the
development of advanced live networked international video installations and performance
projects, as well as enabling doctoral students to explore new creative possibilities and research
trajectories.

In 2019, £17k was invested in a Co-Design Research Lab. The Lab has enhanced research using
interactive co-design methods, both digital and analogue, whereby stakeholders work together in a
multi and cross disciplinary process to address shared research questions. For example, the Lab
enabled a city official and an urban farmer from Nerima City, Tokyo to participate in a virtual
workshop to develop a design proposal for a farmland site. Funding from the Research Capital
Investment Fund (RCIF) (£13k) enabled the purchase of media technology to support research in
virtual reality and the use of drone generated media, work that spans several UoAs. UoB has
invested £233k in an accredited FabLab (managed by Tooze) and a Creative Methods Laboratory,
which facilitate interdisciplinary research at the interface of creative practice disciplines,
engineering and the social sciences.

UoB also hosts the Waste House, opened in June 2014, a permanent low energy building
constructed using over 90% waste material, which under the direction of Baker-Brown has been
shortlisted for and won numerous awards, including the RIBA South East Regional Sustainability
Award (2015) and a special prize as part of the RIBA Stephen Lawrence Awards (2015), the latter
used to create an annual student award for Circular Design. As a ‘living laboratory’, it combines
onsite scientific testing with a resource that supports teaching and research and facilitates
engagement with and impact on stakeholders at a regional, national and international level.

Since 2014, the Waste House has been the subject of several published case studies; supported
research collaboration with industry organisations (Alliance for Sustainable Building Products),
companies (Veolia, Nomadéis) and universities (Bath, ESITC Caen, UniLaSalle Rouen) to design
and produce thermal insulant prototypes from waste materials; and influenced local authority
planning policies. For example, Baker-Brown was invited to help Brighton and Hove City Council
to deliver their Circular Economy Route Map to inform future planning policy and hosted workshops
for over 120 council officers and senior managers.




                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1. Delivering social, cultural and economic value in partnership
Over the period we have deepened established partnerships and formed new ones through joint
research projects, exhibitions, exchanges and events. Partners include national museums and
galleries, and local arts organisations such as Photoworks (Brighton Photo Biennial) and Rocket
Artists’ Studios. Equally important are relationships we have built with industry and community
partners. Community21 (a spin out founded by Gant in collaboration with Action in Rural Sussex),
for example, has enabled us to work with a network of researchers and community practitioners,
urban and rural communities, NGOs and service providers to develop our work on resilient and
sustainable communities through design. We have also worked with commercial companies and
design practices to deliver improved design practices and products.

Shaping Museum Practices: Working in partnership, our research contributes to the development
of museum practices. In 2019, an annual visiting fellowship scheme was introduced with the V&A
enabling individual UoB researchers to engage with a project directly focused on collections of
strategic importance. In its first year this was awarded for a practice-led research project to
investigate and reframe female narratives within photographic albums and collections held in the
V&A archives. Research with the V&A has also provided new insights on museum learning for
design practitioners; and a new study of the impact of transnational exchange on Korean
contemporary craft and design has the potential to inform collecting policy.

Our partnership with RPMBH included a collaborative doctoral project exploring the engagement of
the Kachin diaspora, from northern Myanmar, with historical materials in the collections of Brighton
Museum & Art Gallery (2013 – 2019). The study made a number of recommendations for changes
in practice to facilitate deeper engagement with transnational publics, especially those represented
by young and second-generation migrants from stakeholder communities.

New exhibition and collection histories: In response to the priorities of partner institutions, our
research has produced new knowledge on important collections. A study of the V&A’s Circulation
Department (1947 – 1977) provided a new perspective on organisational history through revealing
a complex flow of ideas between London and the regions; and an ongoing project with RPMBH
(2018 – 2022) explores the collection of sets, props, costumes and ephemera relating to the short-
lived dance company Les Ballets 1933. The research will contribute to an understanding of avant-
garde performance as it moved from East to West in interwar Europe and explore how the
collection can be best presented to a contemporary public through exhibition and performance.

Collaborative doctoral research is contributing to neglected exhibition and collections histories in
British colonial and military contexts; informing new understandings of museum collecting and
display practices, and their decolonisation; and creating new connections with source communities
through artistic processes. Projects include: the history and development of the IWM Second World
War galleries, coinciding with their redesign, and on the IWM’s first photographer, Horace Nicholls;
British Museum collaborative practices with West Africa and South Asian collectors and donors,
the latter complemented by a project on British South Asians and museum exhibition design;
Kodak Collection and galleries at the NSMM; and artistic investigation of a collection of
ethnobotanical artefacts of the Northwest Amazon with Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew.

Circular economy and sustainability: A development project supported by the British Council
and The DreamCatcher Foundation, South Africa, drawing on research into the transformative
potential of co-working with waste (Gant), enabled 40 new enterprises to exploit processes and
products co-developed between staff and students and community participants in South Africa.
Building on work with the Waste House facility, Baker-Brown developed a Resource Mapping
methodology to facilitate the reduction of consumption and wastage of natural raw materials in
construction. A related exhibition was presented at FutureBuild, London, one of the world’s largest
construction industry expositions, on the notion of Buildings as Material Stores (Gant, Baker-
Brown). Hayhurst’s Garden House – a new home, studio and gallery for the artists and costume-

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
makers Whitaker Malem – examined the application of green technologies and constructional
systems to support high-quality urban living.

We have collaborated with Philips Lighting on an AHRC doctoral project exploring how emotionally
durable design can be translated into design methods for new product developers; and with IBA
Heidelberg on designing a new sustainable housing quarter.

Inclusive practices in art and design: In addition to Fox’s practice and performance
interventions [ICS_Inclusive Arts], several strands of research are committed to increasing cultural
participation, as well as participation in research, for marginalised or under-served communities.

Since 2017, Gleeson has been musical director of New Note Orchestra (NNO), an initiative
supported by Arts Council funding for people recovering from drug and substance abuse.
Gleeson’s contribution has enabled the orchestra to develop into a widely supported organisation
producing original music and exploring how collaborative music-making functions in the recovery
process. In 2018, NNO was invited to perform for an audience of medical professionals at TedX
NHS. Research by Gant has supported the use of digital tools and processes to remedy the
disengagement of youth in local decision-making (Brighton and Hove City Council 2015; U+I
developers 2016). He was invited to present findings to the Department of Communities and Local
Government, the Cabinet Office, Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg and the Glasgow City Place
Commission.

Immersive video practice (Sermon) provided a means of engaging residents’ experiences in
informal settlements in Ahmedabad, India, contributing to an international dialogue on informal
housing, and was showcased at the National Institute of Design Ahmedabad (2014) and
Southbank Centre (2014). In 2018, Ribas was commissioned by Barcelona City Council to
document low-income neighbourhoods in which the city had made substantial investments to
improve social cohesion and quality of life. The photographs formed the basis for dialogue through
a series of community-based events.

Drawing and making for health and wellbeing: Research has raised awareness of how drawing
can provide support and expression for mental health conditions. The interdisciplinary drawing
exhibition Marks Make Meaning (Bullen, Lyon) expanded the audience for work produced through
Drawing Life (a Lottery-funded project on life drawing for people with dementia) and Year of
Drawing (YoD, an NHS trust-hosted project giving access to art for people with mental health
conditions), showcasing a set of drawings by people living with dementia. The work with YoD is
continuing, and new relationships with Hatsumi VR and Mindbubble bring drawing research
together with virtual reality applications for health and mental health.

Research has also explored the relationship between making and well-being through the co-
production of a garden for a pioneering East Sussex County Council care home, testing the notion
of a ‘well-maker-space’ (Gant).

Art, society and the environment: Artistic research has facilitated imaginative engagement with
the changing environment and stimulated public debate. Stibbon’s fieldwork in the Antarctic, in
collaboration with the Friends of Scott Polar Research Institute (SPRI) and the Royal Navy, and in
Svalbard in the High Arctic, led to a series of large-scale drawings and prints to engage the
audience’s imagination with the Polar landscape and the ways it is changing. The work was
displayed alongside historical collections at the Polar Museum, SPRI. A residency at Hawai’i
Volcanoes National Park (2016) and collaboration with Project Pressure – a charity with a mission
to visualise the climate crisis – in Ecuador (2018) extended this artistic engagement with dynamic
landscapes and the public understanding of climate change.

In 2019, we hosted a UoB-funded symposium on the role of arts in community development, which
brought together academics, students, writers, artists and practitioners committed to developing
creative and ethical narratives of desirable futures. Participants included activist and author
Sohaila Abdulali, photographer and social commentator Miguel Amortegui, and Ghanaian artist

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and community activist Serge Attukwei Clottey, whose award-winning Afrogallonism project,
comprising large scale mosaics made by recycling the plastic from cooking and fuel oil containers
to raise awareness of plastic pollution, was performed and presented as part of Brighton Festival.

New cultural histories: In addition to exhibitions at the Wolfsonian, Florida and Whitechapel,
London presenting new histories of design [ICS_Design History], research has underpinned a
major project on Britain’s regional art schools (Cornford). This involved collaboration with venues
such as Bluecoat, Liverpool (2018 – 2019) and Bury Art Gallery (2019); and Touchstones
Rochdale Museum and Art Gallery and the New Art Gallery, Walsall (both originally scheduled
2020, delayed due to COVID-19). Using artefacts and photography, alongside written and oral
histories, the exhibitions, related radio programmes and symposia have enabled a sharing of
perspectives on issues of civic aspiration and public ownership, the changing function of civic
buildings, cultural policy and ambitions, and the perceived value of education in the arts.

New aesthetic experiences: Our researchers have continued to experiment and innovate in order
to bring new aesthetic experiences to public audiences. Cowie’s innovations in live dance have
been appreciated by audiences in Europe and the Americas. Tangos Cubanos, commissioned by
Danza Contemporanea de Cuba, premiered in Havana (2015) and toured internationally to Bonn
Opera House and the Bolshoi Festival, Moscow; and a three-dimensional version of the work,
created involving cutting edge shutter vision stereoscopy, has been installed in Germany, Spain,
Italy and the UK.

An open-ended collaboration between Holland and Grayson Perry led to the architectural project A
House for Essex (2016) – comprising a house and (secular) chapel – exploring questions of
contemporary ornament, decoration, spatial narrative and storytelling through an engagement with
material and production processes. The project was the subject of a Channel 4 television
documentary. Rawle’s formal exploration of multimodal fiction, resulting in the published book
Overland (2018), experimented with typographic innovation to orientate the reader spatially within
a narrative in which characters and their stories migrate between the bright utopian world and the
dark underworld of industry and war.

4.2. Contributing to the research base
Our staff have shaped the fields of research and practice in which they operate: they have
undertaken critical roles for the development and sustainability of the research base; developed
and maintained research networks; and gained widespread recognition for their contributions. The
following are selected indicative examples:

Prizes and awards have recognised and extended the influence of our staff and their research:
    • Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) President’s Award for Outstanding University-
       located Research for Second Nature Urban Agriculture (Viljoen, Bohn, 2015)
    • Award for contribution to the United Nations World Decade of Education for Sustainable
       Development for Spiel/Feld Urbane Landwirtschaft (Bohn, 2015)
    • Most Beautiful Swiss Book Award for The Kindred of the Kibbo Kift (Pollen, 2015)
    • Laus Bronze Book Prize for Nitrate (Ribas, 2015)
    • Architectural Review Schools Award, RIBA Award and London Planning Award for new
       school designs, and Architects’ Journal Top 10 buildings and RIBA Regional Award for
       Garden House (Hayhurst, 2016)
    • Excellence and Innovation in the Arts, Times Higher Education Awards (Fox, 2017)
    • Sir Misha Black Award for Innovation in Design Education (UoBDA, 2018)
    • Artist of the Year, Fiver Festival, Rioja and Madrid (Cowie, 2018)
    • Queen Sonja Print Award (Stibbon, 2019)
    • Royal Anthropological Institute Photography Studies Award (Newbury, 2020)

Contribution to learned societies and subject associations enables our staff to support the
research infrastructure in their subject fields and set priorities for the future. Several staff have
played key roles in the Design History Society: Chair (Aynsley, 2015 – 2019); Executive Trustee
                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and Research Grants Officer (Atkinson, 2015 – 2020); Member of Executive (Buckley, 2009 –
2016); Trustee and Teaching and Learning Officer (Rajguru, 2017 – 2021). Other leading roles
played by our researchers in learned organisations include, for example: Chair of ARLIS
Committee for Art and Design Archives (Breakell, 2017 – 2018); Fellow of the Royal Historical
Society (Atkinson, 2019–; Wintle, 2016–); Founding member of Korean Design History Society
(Lee, 2019–); Chair of the Steering Group of the Architectural Humanities Research Association
(Amhoff, 2019–); Executive Committee, American Society for Cybernetics (Sweeting, 2018–).

External editorships and membership of editorial boards enables our expertise to shape
international research agendas, ensure the highest standards of scholarship, and encourage
interdisciplinarity. Buckley was Chair of Editorial Board (2011 – 2016) for the Journal of Design
History, a key journal in one of our areas of research strength. Other journals where are
researchers play lead editorial roles are: Visual Studies (Pollen, Book review Editor, 2013 – 2017);
Journal of Visual Art Practice (Francis, Editor in Chief, 2017–); Journal of Museum Ethnography
(Wintle, Contributing Editor, 2017–). Editorial Board membership during the census period: Journal
of Design History (Aynsley); Archives and Records (Breakell); International Journal of
Screendance (Kappenberg); The Poster (El Maasri); International Journal of Applied Arts Studies
(Diaz); The Misulsahakbo: Reviews on the Art History, Art History and Visual Culture and The
Korean Journal of Arts Studies (Lee); Visual Culture in Britain and Design Issues (Buckley);
Bloomsbury Design Library (Atkinson, Rajguru); Springer Urban Agriculture series (Bohn).

Collaboration in the development of doctoral training has been a key feature of our
participation in DTPs. In 2014 – 2015, we were funded under the AHRC Collaborative Skills
Development Scheme (PI Newbury) in collaboration with Royal Holloway, one of only six
organisation-led awards. The programme worked with a selected group of doctoral students and
ECRs to develop new skills and approaches to working with historical objects, artefacts,
performances, live events and recordings. Building on this experience, we led a technē DTP
project to develop online resources for research students across the arts and humanities. The
outcome is a series of informative and engaging films that capture students’ perspectives at key
milestones in their journey (published on the technē website, 2020).

Keynotes, invited public lectures and our hosting of conferences allow our researchers to
build international networks, influence the direction of their fields and engage wider publics. We
have hosted and organised several major international conferences during the period focused on
our areas of research strength, including the Fourth International Visual Methods Conference
(2015); the 50th Anniversary Design Research Society Conference (2016); the Association of Art
Historians conference (2019); and Museum Exhibition Design: Histories and Futures (2020).
Keynote and public lectures include: Kathryn Voorsanger Annual Memorial Lecture, Cooper Hewitt
Museum (Aynsley, 2017); Research Institute for Cultural and Media Economies, University of
Leicester (Cornford, 2017); Grantham Institute for Climate Change and Environment (Baker-
Brown, 2018); Paul Mellon Centre for British Art (Wintle, 2018); Academy of Art and Design,
Basel (Buckley, 2018); Study Centre of Museo Reina Sofía, Madrid (Newbury, 2019); University
of San Diego, Humanities Centre (Stibbon, 2019); Oslo Academy of the Arts (Bullen, Fox, Lyon,
2019); Yale Center for British Art (Blight, 2019); Royal Academy of Arts London (Bohn, 2020).

Visiting research scholars and fellows work with our staff and students to ensure the vitality of
our research and its global reach. Leading scholars hosted during the period include: Professor
Clive Dilnot, Parsons, New School, New York (2015 – 2016); Dr Yasuko Suga, Tsuda University,
Tokyo (2016); Professor Priscila Farias, University of São Paulo (2017); Dr Lian Xinyan, Guangxi
University (2017 – 2018); Dr Dong Chu, Harbin University of Commerce (2018 – 2019); Dr Kylie
Thomas, British Academy Fellow (2018 – 2019); Dr Miya Itabashi, Hosei University, Tokyo (2019 –
2020); Professor Rupali Gupte, School of Environment and Architecture, Mumbai (2020 – 2021).
Ghanaian artist Serge Attukwei Clottey was awarded an honorary doctorate by UoB in 2019.

Sharing our expertise enables external bodies to meet local, national and international priorities.
Bohn is a management committee member for the European Cooperation in Science and
Technology Circular City Network (2018 – 2022) and founding member of the Ernährungsrat
                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Berlin, Germany’s second food policy council (2014–); Hodgson was both founder and jury
member for the Prix Pictet (since 2008), a major international photography award drawing attention
to issues of sustainability and the environment; Breakell is a Trustee of the Museum of Ordinary
People; Gant undertook consultancy for the British Council and Ellen MacArthur Foundation
Circular Design Lab (2019) and was appointed as a member of the British Council’s Crafting
Futures Network; Wintle was academic consultant to the British Museum exhibition What is
Europe? Views from Asia (2018); Viljoen was an invited expert at the World Urban Agriculture
Summit, Nerima, Tokyo (2019); and Stibbon is a patron of The Big Draw. Four staff are members
of the AHRC Peer Review College.

Artistic commissions, residencies and fellowships indicate the esteem in which our
researchers are held internationally and allow them to contribute to the vital engagement between
practice and research whilst reaching new audiences. Stibbon has held residencies at the Josef
and Anni Albers Foundation, Connecticut (2016), Grand Canyon National Parks (2017), and the
Death Valley National Park Arts Foundation (2019). Bullen was artist-in-residence at Gordon
House, Margate (2018), offering audiences a new means of experiencing built heritage in the
community. Childerley was artist-in-residence at Visual Arts in Rural Communities,
Northumberland, and the Joshua Tree Highlands, USA; and was recently commissioned to make
photographs for the new Royal Sussex Hospital (2018 – 2020). Rawle was writer-in-residence at
United World College South East Asia, Singapore (2019).

Contributions to public collections establish the cultural and historical value of research in art
and design and ensure its long-term sustainability. Photographs from Ribas’ commission for
Barcelona City Council were acquired by the Arxiu Fotogràfic de Barcelona and now form a
permanent part of the city’s visual history. The exhibition installation Trafficking the Earth (Ribas,
Purbrick) was accepted to become part of the permanent collection of Museo de la Solidaridad
Salvador Allende, their first and only body of work on mining in Chile. Rawle’s Overland is included
in the artist’s book collection of the Museum of Contemporary Art, Antwerp. Historical photographic
prints, negatives and documents acquired through Newbury’s research were donated to the
Bodleian Library, enhancing their collection on the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel. A
collection of 12 oral histories produced as part of the Curating Decolonisation project (Wintle) have
been acquired by the British Library.




                                                                                             Page 18
