Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Exeter

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 29 Classics

 Section 1: Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 A. Context

 Our proudly democratic and collegial Department has substantially renewed itself after
 the 2014 retirement of five distinguished professors, the backbone of our research
 community for two decades (S. Mitchell, Gill, Seaford, Wilkins, Braund). We have seized
 the opportunity to refocus our research, inspired by a new generation of colleagues
 whose work is engaged with current societal concerns, whilst maintaining our strong
 tradition in fundamental research. We have recruited eight (+) ambitious new scholars,
 including Morley (previously Head of Department [HoD] in Bristol). Our desire to do the
 best for these, and to create opportunities for them, has led us to think creatively and
 proactively about our support for their (and others’) career-development, with an
 awareness of EDI needs. We draw strength and inspiration from the inclusion of
 everyone in strategic development and decision-making, irrespective of seniority. We
 reach out from a rounded foundation in Classical Philology and Ancient History into other
 disciplinary fields, including Archaeology, Visual Culture, Theology, Geography, and
 Medieval Studies. We seek to understand and interpret ancient culture with the
 challenge of theoretical perspectives and through the use of innovative analytical tools
 developed in Digital Humanities (DH). Committed to research-inspired teaching, we
 share our results directly with our students at all levels. Our international research
 activities and inward international scholar programme have a wide reach, but we remain
 grounded in our South-West community and committed to enriching it with our impact.

 Key changes since REF2014:

    We have deepened our research-enquiry through the development of three new
     Research Centres, the established Hellenistic Centre being joined by:

            o   Centre for Connectivity in the Roman World;
            o   Centre for Knowledge in Culture in Antiquity and Beyond;
            o   Centre for Classical Reception.

    We have regenerated our leadership and expanded. The Department now has 23.6
     staff, all engaged in research, including 21.6 Category A (19 at REF2014), with 8
     professors, 3 of them promoted within the REF period.
    We have doubled our research applications and more than tripled our awards total
     over the REF period (from £999k in 2014 to £3.2m), engaging a wide spread of
     funders (UKRI, charities including Leverhulme and Wellcome) and fostering our long-
     term relationship with the Leventis Foundation.
    The Department leads the way in our College’s strategic investment (£1.2m) in DH.
     Two of the three permanent academic staff in the new dedicated DH unit, including
     the Director, are members of our Department, Isaksen and Tupman. They have had
     a transformative effect on colleagues’ methodologies and project-design.

 We have extended and diversified our impact activities, with non-ICS impact projects,
 including (e.g.) Pelagios (linking datasets via shared locations), Greek and
 Latin WordNets, Thinking through Thucydides and popular novels (§4.A-B). These reach
 new audience-types and open up new impact-domains for us.




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 B. Advancing our Research Strategy

 The REF2014 Environment Statement served as staging-post in the Department’s
 construction of a transformative research strategy. This combines a vigorous programme
 of Research-Centre development with support for independent projects. Its prime goal is
 to have far-reaching impact with research in the fields of our four principal themes and
 others, and to:

    i. Transform our postgraduate community.
   ii. Promote the careers of Early Career Researchers (ECRs).
  iii. Drive internationalisation.
 iv. Establish sustainable platforms for major and diversified grant applications.
   v. Advance interdisiplinarity.
 vi. Embed sustainable platforms for impact.
 vii. Exploit DH opportunities.

 §1.D demonstrates our success in achieving these goals.


 C. The Centres

 The Research Centres are key to our fostering of an academic and intellectual
 community, enabling us to build and focus research synergies as well as creating an
 international profile. Their themes and scopes, whilst strongly defined, remain sufficiently
 diverse to allow all members of the Department and PGRs to find an intellectual home
 within one of them, sometimes two. Common memberships between the Centres
 promote cross-fertilisation. The primary forum for our research is our lively weekly
 seminar (online access), to which the Centres report, with 25% of the talks under their
 aegis. 50% of talks are Exeter-led (including 20% PGR); 50% are external (5%
 international).

 1. Centre for Hellenistic and Romano-Greek Culture and Society (CHRGCS).
 Directors: Mitchell, Ogden. The UK’s first Hellenistic Centre, created with a £1.25m
 Leverhulme grant, CHRGCS encompasses a broad range of research from Old
 Macedon to Late Antiquity. Classics and Ancient History’s (CAH’s) sole Centre at
 REF2014, CHRGCS has served as the template for our three new ones. Projects
 include: Impact of Greek Culture (King, Flower), Macedonian and Hellenistic Dynasties
 (Mitchell, Nicholson, Ogden). In two years Nicholson’s Antigonid Network has
 established itself as the world’s clearing-house for Antigonid studies.

 2. Centre for Connectivity in the Roman World (CCRW). Director: Pitts; Co-directors:
 Isayev, Holleran. Launched in 2015, CCRW was developed from a loose research
 grouping declared at REF2014. Uniquely in the world, it examines how connectivity
 helped to shape distinctive economies and societies across Roman-period Afro-Eurasia,
 by fostering the development of novel theoretical and applied approaches and
 capitalising on our DH links for mapping data. Projects include: Globalisation and the
 Roman World (Pitts, Morley, Isayev), Migration, Mobility and Place in Ancient Italy
 (Isayev), Mapping Migration in Roman Iberia (Holleran), Mapping the Social History of
 Rome (Borg) and Connecting Late Antiquities (Flower).

 3. Centre for Knowledge in Culture in Antiquity and Beyond (CKIC). Director:
 Langlands.Launched in 2016, CKIC promotes research at the interface of science and
 the humanities (including ontology, cognitive studies, environmental studies, technology
 and medicine) and informs public policy, e.g., on land-use (DEFRA) and statutory sex
 education (Welsh Assembly). Projects include: Ancient Medicine (Leith, King), Ancient
 Scientific Imagination (Galluzzo, Gerolemou), Cognitive Classics (Earnshaw, Short),
 Divine Knowledge (Salvo).

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Centre for Classical Reception (CCR). Directors: Langlands, Power (English).
 Launched in 2019, CCR formalises Exeter’s long-standing research strengths in
 Classical Reception, the University boasting perhaps the largest concentration (20+) in
 the Russell Group of scholars working, across disciplinary boundaries, on the reception
 of Classical culture. Methodologically diverse, it distinctively foregrounds engaged
 research, building connections with partners and professional stakeholders beyond
 academia, particularly in the arts sector overseas. Projects include: Classics and
 Women Writers (Hauser, with Taylor [Mod.Lang.]), Reception of Valerius Maximus
 (Langlands), Marx and Antiquity (Morley).

 Beyond the Centres. Outstanding research continues to be conducted within
 independent projects, as traditionally in our discipline, and the Department vigorously
 supports these. Projects largely independent of the Centres include: Cataloguing
 Damnation (Flower); Thracian Tomb Painting (Manetta); Ancient and Medieval Folklore
 (Ogden); Ancient Quotation Culture (Wright).


 D. Strategic Goals: Gains and Trajectory

 The Centres have proved successful in meeting the Department’s strategic goals (§1.B)
 and equipping us for the future:

 i. Transforming our postgraduate community:
 All PGRs (current headcount 32) may (and do) align themselves with a Centre to receive
 deep and concentrated support. Indeed PGRs from external departments. (e.g.,
 Archaeology) are also drawn in, c.15 over the REF period. The Centres have
 successfully attracted PGR students with diverse funding. CCRW stands out: inter alios,
 it has attracted 4 AHRC-SWW-DTP Studentships, 2 Leventis Studentships, a Vice-
 Chancellor’s Scholarship, a Royal-Thai-Embassy Scholarship and a Doctoral College
 fee-waiver (for an EU student). CKIC has a PGR exchange programme with Berkeley.
 CCRW underpins our new MA programme in Roman Archaeology (2019-), which feeds
 further PGR recruitment. CHRGCS underpins our new MA pathway on Politics,
 Economy and Society, CCR that on Classical Reception.

 ii. Promoting the careers of ECRs:
 All our ECRs have found homes with our centres, where they benefit from
 mentoring through intensive collaboration with experienced staff: CCRW, McDonald and
 Tupman; CHRGCS, Nicholson; CKIC, Earnshaw, Gerolemou and Salvo; CCR,
 Earnshaw, Hauser. Centre-based hot-housing has successfully delivered grants for, e.g.,
 McDonald and Earnshaw. Centres host specifically ECR-facing events, e.g., CKIC’s
 Sex, Sexuality and Classical Reception.

 iii. Driving internationalisation:
 The Centres valuably build the Department’s profile by constructing a distinctive and
 attractive identity in international (and national) contexts. They enable alliances,
 collaborations and partnerships with colleagues in international HEIs (cf. §4.B). CKIC
 has a Memorandum of Understanding with Humboldt University (Berlin) for developing
 collaborative funding bids. CHRGCS is the node of the new Antigonid Network, boasting
 primary links with CU Milan and Waterloo’s Institute for Hellenistic Studies (Canada); it
 supports Mitchell as C-I for Newton Advanced Fellow Adriene Baron Tacla (UFF, Brazil)
 in the project Of Coins and Kings. All the Centres boast international advisory boards:
 e.g., CCRW’s comprises advisors from Brown, Paris-Sorbonne and Leiden.

 The Centres have benefitted richly from the University’s Visiting International Academic
 Fellowship (VIAF) scheme. Under this, CCRW has hosted John Bodel (Brown), Sarah
 Bond (Iowa), Miguel Versluys (Leiden) Francisco Peña (British Columbia) and the poet


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Paul Magee (Canberra); CHRGCS, Pat Wheatley (Otago), Sheila Ager (Waterloo);
 CKIC, Lesley Dean-Jones (Austin), Sarah Lawrence (UNE, Australia).

 iv. Establishing credible and sustainable platforms for major grant applications to
 a diversified range of awarding bodies:
 CHRGCS hosts the Leventis Initiative (2010-) managed by Flower (§3.C) and has
 housed lecturers (Hatzimichali, King) and postdoctoral fellows (Chrubasik, Coqueugniot,
 Rowan). CCRW hosts Isayev's £2m GCRF Network-plus grant.

 v. Advancing interdisciplinarity (cf. 1.5, 2.3-4 Institutional Level Environment
 Statement (ILES):
 Interdisciplinarity is hard-wired into our Centres’ missions, esp. CCRW, CKIC and CCR
 (§1.C). They boast multidisciplinary memberships, uniting colleagues from Archaeology,
 History, Theology, Philosophy, English, Modern Languages, Art History and Visual
 Culture, Politics, Sociology. The Sexual Knowledge Unit (Langlands, Co.-Director)
 aligned with CKIC, unites scholars from across the Humanities and Social and
 Biomedical Sciences.

 vi. Building sustainable platforms for impact:
 The development of the Centres has allowed us to build a broader and more secure
 research base to support Impact (for our success: §4.A): all our ICSs are now positioned
 within the Centres, where they benefit from the resilience of multiple engaged staff.
 CCRW supports Imagining Futures through Un/Archived Pasts (Isayev); CKIC supports
 Ancient and Modern Approaches to Wellbeing (Galluzzo and Leith) and Sex&History
 projects (Langlands).

 The Department benefits from the expertise of Centre-leading colleagues with deep
 experience of working in impact, notably Langlands and Isayev, whose engagement with
 such activities predate any REF requirement, and who led ICSs at REF2014. Langlands
 is Impact Advisor to the University and delivers university-wide impact training.

 Sustainability of our impact culture is enhanced by our revised processes (2.5-7 ILES).
 Impact is now: overseen by a departmental Director of Impact (Galluzzo), supported by a
 College-dedicated Impact Research Fellow and the University’s Impact, Innovation, and
 Business professionals; budgeted for in our Workload Model; more plentifully and
 variously resourced, being generously supported by University, College, HoD and
 Leventis funds; a prime criterion in promotion and the awarding of internal research
 leave; a significant criterion in recruitment at all levels: candidates address Impact
 questions at interview; and the subject of an annual away-day event; this facilitates the
 sharing of wisdom and best practice and encourages ECRs to engage with experienced
 ICS authors.

 The sustainability of our impact has also been enhanced by our engagement with DH, as
 colleagues become more familiar with digital methods of delivery, and the ways
 technologies can be exploited to reach and help others. It will become ever more central
 to it: see the non-ICS Impact and Engagement projects catalogued at §4.A.

 vii. Exploiting DH:
 For the crucial role of DH in our activities see §3.F.

 Future priorities are to maximise the impact of our Centres, extend their international
 networks, and increase their income, and thereby the number of ECRs they support. As
 the three new Centres gain in strength, they will structure much of our research strategy
 for the next REF period. Inspired by CHRGCS, they have in turn led us to rethink
 CHRGCS’s own mission, which will be repositioned to accommodate the Department’s
 growing interest in Greek political thought. Our new A.G. Leventis Chair in Ancient
 Scientific and Technological Thought (appointment 2022) will be tasked with

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 transforming the profile of CKIC at every level, building further capacity, and enhancing
 the Department’s public engagement.


 E. Strategising Research Integrity and Open Access

 The Department ensures ethical responsibility in its research (2.9 ILES). The issues it
 faces relate more to interaction with live subjects (in its impact-work and engaged
 research) than to antiquities handling and have increased in line with the expansion of
 our Impact portfolio; it is accordingly on these matters that discussion in Department
 meetings concentrates.

       The Department’s Ethics Officer (Earnshaw) sits on the College Ethics
    Committee, where she contributes to the development and maintenance of the
    College’s ethical principles and to the validation of research and impact
    projects across the Humanities.
     Colleagues undertake mandatory Information Security training through the
    LearnUpon platform. Research data is handled in full conformity with GDPR. It is
    stored on the University’s secure Research Drive, accessible off-campus solely via
    VPN.
     Building on the University’s Climate
    Emergency Guidance, we promote alternative formats for research activity, e.g.,
    remote conference attendance. Two colleagues sit on the College’s Climate Action
    Working Group.
     Beyond the Department, colleagues promote ethical publishing in their roles on
    editorial boards (Borg, McDonald, Morley, Tupman).

 We commit to the maximal distribution of our work through Open Access channels, and
 to the broader promotion of OA approaches (2.8 ILES).

        Morley represents discipline concerns in national discussions, feeding
    into government policy-making in his role as CUCD OA coordinator, liaising with
    journals and learned societies.
     Pitts’ Gold OA publication, Big Data on the Roman Table, has been instrumental
    in the development of templates for other OA publications of AHRC-funded projects
    involving digital data. Best practice in the recording, publication, and use of
    archaeological-finds data is a critical concern of Pitts’ work.
     Short has linguistic databases mounted on GitHub.
     Our DH unit promotes Open Access via the development of digital platforms for
    historical documents, e.g. ‘The Courtenay Chronicles’ (Tupman): §4.A.
     Primary access to departmental research is provided by our institutional
    repository, Open Research Exeter (ORE). Its ‘Request a Copy’ service facilitates
    access to items under provisional embargo; although a smaller Department, CAH
    received the most requests in the School of Humanities for embargoed items across
    2014-20. ORE also makes our non-sensitive research data publicly available,
    retaining it indefinitely.
     Colleagues have long uploaded to standard external OA repositories, including
    Academia and ResearchGate.
     Our Departmental journal, Pegasus (est. 1964), provides full OA one year after
    publication.
     Our REF output-submission is 100% compliant with the REF OA policy.




                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Section 2: People


 A. Staffing Strategy

 We aspire to be an egalitarian, inclusive and supportive community, believing that this
 (justice aside) fosters the most fertile environment for successful research and best
 enables us to develop our new and junior colleagues, and also our non-Category-A staff,
 as researchers. To give validation to all individuals and their work within our Department,
 and to energise the Department as a research équipe, we promote departmental
 democracy to a degree far beyond the norm in our University. We heed all voices by
 maximising the business run through the plenary and frequent Department Meetings (c.5
 a term), often inviting junior colleagues to speak first. The DSG (comprising HoD,
 Director of Research (DoR), Director of Education (DoE), DoG, DPGR and the Academic
 Leads serves this meeting merely in probouleutic capacity.

 The Department's staffing strategy aims to: select staff whose specialisations align with
 or complement those of our Centres and enable us to offer undergraduates a rounded
 curriculum; maintain a highly internationalised team representative of our subject’s broad
 profile and the diversity of approaches to it in different cultural traditions (§2.D);
 encourage colleagues to build on the inherently interdisciplinary nature of our field to
 broaden out into further disciplines; maintain a staff profile balanced in gender and age,
 to promote EDI and sustainability and to facilitate staff-development (§§2.D-E); support
 all staff, especially ECRs, through established mentoring schemes and the probation
 and promotion processes (§§2.B-C); support post-doctoral fellows and other fixed-term
 staff in graduating to permanent posts (§2.B); facilitate the valued and substantial
 contribution non-Category A staff (Marshall and Tupman) make to our research
 environment processes (§§2.B-C).


 B. Promoting Career-development for ECR Staff

 Seeking to maximise benefits for its ECRs, the Department meets the benchmarks of the
 Researcher Development Concordat and DORA with the support of College and
 University structures (which offer career-coaching and liaison fora; 2.8-9, 3.3, 3.8 ILES).
 Its nurturing of their careers has borne fruit in its record of assisting fixed-term staff into
 permanent positions: King (Exeter); Rowan (Royal Holloway); Farrell (UCD); Goh
 (Swansea); Bassino (Winchester).

 Within our ‘The Exeter Academic’ staff-development system (cf.ILES 3.3), new
 permanent lecturers are trained through the Personal Development Programme (PDP),
 which sets milestones for publication, impact, grant-capture and teaching over five
 years. Upon completion, promotion to Senior Lecturer is automatic; accelerated
 promotion follows early meeting of the milestones. The department has an excellent
 record in supporting ECRs through PDP, with all relevant staff having achieved
 promotion within five years. They are guided by a designated departmental Academic
 Lead (AL), a senior member trained for the role; these engage with them supportively
 throughout to prepare them for their annual Performance and Development Review. An
 annual research-leave slot is ring-fenced for them. Where needed, sustained
 programmes of intensive and iterative support have been mounted by the DoR and ALs
 to enable them to complete outputs and grant applications.

 Post-doctoral fellows and fixed-term colleagues are fully integrated into the Department,
 sharing in decision-making. They are assigned a departmental ‘mentor’, who fulfils an
 AL-role. They are invited to participate in the College’s Research Monitoring exercise to
 gain critical feedback and acquire gradings advertisable on CVs. They also participate in
 annual peer-reviews of teaching practice.

                                                                                                   Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 New teaching staff enjoy a phased introduction to university life. Their research time is
 thereby protected. They are given remission within the Workload Model to undertake the
 Academic Professional Programme (teacher-training), a PDP requirement. ECR
 positions funded through our (erstwhile) Humanities and Social Sciences Strategy (e.g.,
 Leith’s) have been structured with limited initial teaching loads, expanding gradually over
 five years.


 C. Enhancing Career-progression for Established Staff

 Upon completion of PDP, colleagues advance their careers by meeting further structured
 goals in the ‘Exeter Academic’ system (3.3-7 ILES). We support colleagues in
 preparation for the research objectives with 1:1 peer support from ALs and targeted
 advice from the DoR. Career development is also fostered by participation in the
 (mandatory) annual Research Monitoring exercise, managed within the department by
 the DoR.

 CAH remains small enough to constitute a cohesive and supportive community. Prior to
 each academic year, it bonds over an away-day centred upon an outdoor communal
 challenge. Our Research Centres offer tighter circles of support. Junior colleagues are
 supported by the expertise of senior ones: in a formal system presided over by the DoR,
 staff undertake internal peer-review of each other’s draft grant applications and
 (sometimes) draft publications. The College has used CAH as a model of good practice
 in this regard. (Colleagues also draw support from participation in external research
 networks: §4.B.)

 CAH proactively accommodates colleagues, including ECRs, in taking up fixed-term
 fellowships and residencies (including College-funded, career-developing Outward
 Mobility Academic Fellowships) in international institutions by reassigning and
 rescheduling their teaching and administrative duties: e.g., Isayev (Tübingen, ANU),
 Morley (Freie Universität, Berlin), Langlands (UCLA), Salvo (Uppsala).

 Permanent Category-A staff may apply for 6 months’ study leave funded by the College.
 CAH is generally awarded 3 slots a year. Applications for leave are made to the DSG,
 which selects those it is best able to build into a strategic case for the College. The
 portfolio is chosen with a view to (a) the merit of individual proposals; (b) servicing the
 College’s and CAH’s research needs and priorities; (c) awarding research leave evenly
 across gender and seniority (EDI considerations apply).

 CAH creates opportunities for early leadership experience. Prior to their professorships,
 Langlands and Wright were given the opportunity to serve as acting HoD for 3 and 6
 months respectively during the then HoD’s sabbaticals. Flower (initially as SL) was given
 the lead in managing CAH’s critical philanthropic relationship with the Leventis
 Foundation. We have supported female colleagues (e.g., Tupman) in applying for the
 Aurora Scheme.

 REF submission

 Our output selection panel (3F, 1M) is externally trained in mitigating bias in decision-
 making, as per the University’s REF2021 Code of Practice. It has prioritised items by
 ECRs so as to display the leading edge of our research and the subject-areas newer to
 the Department. Similarly, their projects have been foregrounded in the examples in §4.
 Our ECRs, alongside other colleagues, have contributed to the formulation of this
 Environment Statement in buzz-groups.




                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 D. EDI and Wellbeing

 Colleagues are passionate about EDI, its imperatives shaping their research: e.g.,
 Langlands on sexuality and gender, in which she engages with local communities;
 Marshall’s and Hauser’s on women writers; Isayev’s on migration, in which she engages
 with refugee communities locally (Trustee, Refugee Support Devon) and in Israel-
 Palestine. We promote EDI issues in service beyond the Department: McDonald and
 Salvo are founders and officers of the Women’s Classical Committee; Borg has sat on
 the University’s Pay-Gap Advisory Group; Langlands sits on its Sexual Orientation
 Equality Group; Earnshaw and Holleran sit on the College Inclusivity Group (Mitchell
 was its inaugural chair).

 CAH’s demographics are diverse in gender and nationality. New appointments (two
 Professorial) and promotions have enabled us to achieve a balanced mix of age and
 gender across the seniority-spectrum, dramatically improving our REF2014 position.
 Currently the research-active gender-ratio is 13F:10M.

                                   REF2014               REF2021 (staff census date)
                        Total     Male     Female       Total   Male       Female
 Professors             7         5        2            8       4          4
 APs                    1         1                     2       2
 SLs                    4         1        3            5       3          2
 Permanent Lecturers    4         3        1            4       1          3
 Permanent Research                                     1                  1
 Fellows
 Fixed-term Lecturers   2         1           1         0
 Fixed-term Research    1                     1         3                     3
 Fellows
 TOTALS                 19        11          8         23        10          13

 Two strong messages emerge: (1) We have achieved gender-parity at the senior end of
 the department. Care is also taken to ensure both genders are represented within the
 DSG, currently 5F (including HoD), 2M. (2) At the junior end we have been able to give a
 generous range of opportunities to ECR women. The current breakdown at (permanent)
 lecturer level, 3F:1M, reflects our commitment to progressing their careers and promises
 that women will continue to be fully represented at senior level in the Department as the
 cohort progresses upwards.

 Colleagues represent diverse nationalities: 14 UK, 5 European (German, Italian, Greek-
 Cypriot), 2 Australian, 1 Canadian, 1 US. We advertise all permanent posts and Leventis
 fellowships internationally, remunerating the latter at a rate to qualify for visa-
 sponsorship.

 EDI and protected-characteristics implications are considered in all departmental
 decision-making. Inclusion is a standing item for Department meetings. CAH
 demonstrated its commitment to gender equality by piloting the Gender Equality Charter
 Mark (GEM) in 2014, achieving Bronze. After exploring options for promoting Inclusion in
 the Department, we have decided that our aspirations are served most effectively by the
 establishment of an Inclusion Forum, in which we regularly self-assess our systems and
 processes, The Classical Association’s new national EDI officer is housed in our
 Department, PGR Rendell.

 CAH commits to mixed-gender appointment and selection committees at all levels. All
 panel-members are trained in EDI.




                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The College and CAH flex working commitments for carers and those with well-being
 issues. The College of Humanities fosters a family-friendly work-culture, whereby staff
 are entitled to restrict their teaching to the central hours of the day. Staff returning from
 sick or maternity leave benefit from a phased return to work. We further support carers
 by facilitating transfer to fractional contracts. CAH has moved its weekly Research
 Seminar from its long-traditional evening slot to early afternoon to accommodate
 parents.

 CAH foregrounds EDI in handling PGR matters. Selection and award committees for
 PGR studentships are gender balanced. Our female PGRs have risen from 35%
 (2013/14) to 60% (2019/20). Non-standard modes of study are keenly supported:
 several recent PGRs have studied on a PT basis, and several have
 been supervised remotely. For PGR training and career-development see §2.F.

 Wellbeing needs are kept in focus during departmental decision-making, with data from
 University- and College-level staff-surveys considered. ALs encourage individual
 colleagues to look to their wellbeing and direct them to, inter alia, the University’s
 ‘Mindfulness’ and ‘Stress-management’ workshops and web-based resources,
 including SilverCloud CBT training. Half the Department has trained as Mental Health
 Champions. Salvo runs Departmental ‘Mindfulness’ workshops.


 E. Securing Sustainability and Growth in the Department

 CAH’s commitment to recognising, supporting and retaining talent is shown by the 11
 promotions since REF2014. Since this point 3 women (Langlands, Isayev, ní Mheallaigh)
 and 1 man (Wright) have achieved chairs. Other promotions have also had a positive
 impact on departmental demographics, demonstrating a smooth follow-through from
 probation to promotion: Pitts was promoted to AP in 2017; Flower to SL in 2015, then AP
 in 2018; Holleran confirmed as SL in 2016, King and Galluzzo in 2018, Leith in 2019,
 McDonald achieved early promotion to SL in 2019. All of these, except McDonald (not
 yet appointed), were identified as ECRs at REF2014.

 CAH has increased its staffing by 21% in the REF period. It has been particularly
 successful in creating additional permanent posts by (a) upgrading a fixed-term
 colleague to permanence (King); (b) replacing a former fixed-term post with a permanent
 one (Short); and (c) creating four additional permanent posts ex nihilo, two at
 professorial level (Morley, Isaksen, Professors; Hauser, Lecturer; Tupman, Research
 Fellow). We have also made replacement permanent appointments since REF2014:
 Earnshaw, replacing Matzner; McDonald, replacing Seaford; Nicholson, replacing Carlà.
 And we have created three fixed-term post-doctoral fellowships since REF2014:
 Gerolemou (Leventis), Salvo (Leventis), Manetta (Marie Curie).


 F. Enhancing the PGR Experience

 Since 2014 we have enhanced our PGRs’ sense of belonging (to the Department and
 with each other), offered them a broader and more finessed range of support, coached
 them successfully in early publication and career-development. Over the REF period our
 PGR group has been strongly internationalised, including students from (e.g.) Australia,
 China, Denmark, Italy, Romania, Thailand, USA. As of October 2020 we have 32 PGRs
 (headcount). They are supported by a variety of funding-sources: §1.D.i.

 We consider our PGRs to be the heart of the Department and are keen that they should
 feel so. We unite them in a strong sense of ‘cohort’, and fully integrate them into our
 research community: they attend and present papers at the weekly research seminar;
 increasingly, they find an immediate home within the Centres, and participate in and

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 present papers at their meetings; they edit (in groups of 2-4) our internationally
 distributed departmental journal, Pegasus, to which they also contribute, as do
 colleagues and external scholars; in addition to centrally-provided study-space, they
 have access to a comfortable shared workspace in the department, the Leventis Room
 (also the departmental Library); they conduct strongly collegial WiP meetings and
 reading-groups.).

 CAH closely monitors the progress of PGRs under the aegis of the Doctoral College
 (3.9.12 ILES). They benefit from: the formal support of 5 departmental staff: 2
 supervisors, 1 mentor, 2 reader-interviewers for upgrade from M.Phil.; structured
 induction sessions, additional to those provided by the Doctoral College; the
 development of bespoke training programmes at the beginning of each academic year
 (these can include, e.g., the auditing of departmental Greek and Latin classes, or
 specialised training courses funded by the Doctoral College, e.g. academic German); the
 development of an agreed work-plan, with measurable milestones, at the beginning of
 each academic year; monitoring of their progress in designated review meetings with
 supervisors; also monthly monitoring through our online reporting system, MyPGR. CAH
 endorses a College initiative (as of 2019) to ensure that MPhils (normally) upgrade to
 PhD-status after 6 months, achieving early academic independence.

 Supervisors regularly discuss long-term career-strategy with PGRs. CAH supports PGRs
 (including financially) in presenting their work externally: in the College’s annual
 postgraduate conference; at Exeter’s Being Human festival; at the Classical Association
 meeting; and at specialist academic conferences; they are also supported (additionally
 by the College: £4K annually) in running their own conferences in Exeter, e.g. Nugatory
 Texts (Hayes, Martin, 2017); AMPAH 2020 (Adams, McLoughlin-Davis; virus-deferred to
 2021). PGRs are encouraged, guided by their supervisors and other staff, to get ahead
 of the game by publishing prior to completion: note Omrani’s book, Caesar’s Footprints
 (Pegasus Press; cover endorsement by Boris Johnson(!)) plus pieces by Denson
 (forthcoming in Felton ed. Oxford Handbook of Monsters in Antiquity), Kneafsey (TRAC),
 Gilmour (JRA review), Groff (3 items, including in Patterson ed. Body Talk), Guthrie (in
 Karanos), Mazzini (in Irvin ed, Community and Identity at the Edges). They benefit from
 a personal research allowance of £200, p.a., supplementable from HoD discretionary
 funds, and free inter-library loans. PGR access to research materials has been
 dramatically improved by the University’s ‘21st-Century Research Library’ project
 (§3.E).They are employed in the Department as Postgraduate Teaching Assistants, with
 close monitoring and coaching from module-leaders. The PTA-recruitment process gives
 them interview practice, and they participate in the Academic Professional programme.

 PGR employment
 The proof of our success in fostering the careers of our PGR students since REF2014
 lies in the number progressing to academic positions: Siwicki (Exeter; BSR; John Cabot
 University, Rome; Warburg Institute; Norwegian Academy in Rome); Skuse (BSA;
 Edinburgh; St Andrews); Djurslev (Edinburgh; Aarhus); Manteghi (Münster); Martin
 (Bristol). Others have progressed to academic-aligned jobs: e.g.: Gilka (Grant
 Administrator, Wellcome), Grove (Public Engagement Manager, UKRI), Hartley (GCHQ);
 Hunter Evans (Researcher Development Officer, Bath Spa); Hayes (Head of Classics,
 Frances Holland School); Bundy (Head of Classics, Exmouth Community College –
 among the largest state schools in Europe), Kneafsey (Archaeological Research
 Services, Derbyshire-Nottinghamshire Museums), Mudd (Academic Development,
 UWE).

 Awards for PGR supervision
 Our students’ recognition of the quality of support they receive is attested by CAH’s
 winning of research-facing awards (inter alia) in the Exeter Student Guild’s (= Union’s)
 annual university-wide Teaching Awards: Best Research Community (2016, runner-up);
 Best Research-inspired Teacher (Ogden, 2016; Matzner, runner-up 2015); Most

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Supportive staff member (Farrell, 2016); College Star, Humanities (Earnshaw, 2020). NB
 also: Best Lecturer (Marshall, 2015). In the University’s 2019 Postgraduate Research
 Experience Survey (PRES), all comments were positive, including: ‘My supervision has
 been excellent in every respect’; ‘Very pleased with supervision – always available’; ‘I’m
 lucky to be part of such an interactive and supportive department’; ‘Feels like a great
 research community.’

 Section 3: Income, infrastructure and facilities


 A. Advancing an Inclusive Grant-capture Strategy

 Grants enable research of the sorts, scope and reach we could not otherwise
 contemplate, including projects with expensive DH and Impact components, and
 reinvigorate the Department by bringing younger scholars into it. Since 2014 the
 Department has both dramatically increased its funded research and extended
 participation and success in grant-capture more broadly across the research community
 (at REF2014 a single senior colleague brought in 50% of the income). The opportunity
 has been seized to create a new grant-winning culture inclusive of all members of the
 Department, to develop the skills of junior staff in this (with the support of the ‘Exeter
 Academic’ career-progression framework, wherein grant capture is a criterion for
 probation and promotion) and to build a new experience-base for grant capture.

 We now have a three-pronged strategy:

       1.    The continuous individual cycle. All permanent Category A staff are engaged
             in a continuous cycle of grant- and fellowship-application, at any one time
             either being on a grant or preparing an application.
       2.    Rotational application for major grants. The Department now has a strategy
             of applying for at least one major grant at a time, with senior members taking
             the lead in this on a rotational basis. Thus, in 2020 there was success with a
             £2m GCRF application, “Imagining Futures through Un/Archived Pasts” and
             currently a £530k AHRC application is pending result and a further £1m AHRC
             project application is being finalised.
       3.    Fostering of our long-term Leventis relationship, which has brought in over
             £400k during the current REF period: see §3.C.


 B. Increasing and Diversifying Research Income

 We have successfully continued to diversify the sources from which we draw funding. As
 of June 2020, the Department has more than tripled the AWARDS total won from its
 REF2014 position from £999k to £3.2m.

                                            REF2021           REF2014
                UK research councils          2,180              515
                UK/EU charities                706                449
                EU other (inc. govmt)          206                 0
                Non-EU other                   190                35
                TOTAL                        3.282m              999k

 The average annual income since 2015/16 has been around £230k with a clear uptick in
 the final two years with income to the value of £288k in 2018/19 and £405k in 2019/20
 reflecting the success of the strategy outlined above.




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have continued our success with funding sources declared at REF2014: AHRC Early
 Career Fellowship (Flower, McDonald) – indicative of the success of our career-
 development strategy; AHRC Follow-on grant (Morley, Earnshaw) – indicative of the
 success of our impact strategy; AHRC Network (Earnshaw, Pitts); BA/Leverhulme
 Grant (Isayev, Co-I); Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship (Borg); Leverhulme
 Research Fellowship (Holleran, Ogden, Short).

 We have also broadened the range of our funding sources considerably. New at
 REF2021 are the following grants and salaried fellowships: AHRC/Irish RC project
 award (Tupman, 2020-1); Andrew Mellon Foundation (Isaksen, 2018-19); ESRC
 (Langlands, 2014); Federal University of Minas Gerais, Brazil (Isayev, 2018); Joan
 Palevsky Visiting Chair, UCLA (Langlands, 2014-15); Loeb Classical Library Foundation
 Fellowship (Borg, Pitts, 2017-18); Marie-Curie COFUND Research Fellowship (ni
 Mheallaigh, 2014-16, held at Aarhus Institute of Advanced Studies); Marie Skłodowska-
 Curie Fellowship (Manetta and Borg, 2019-21); Morphomata Visiting Fellowship,
 Cologne (Carlà, 2016/17); Newton Advanced Fellowship (Mitchell, Co-I, 2018-20, in
 collaboration with UFF, Niteroi, Rio de Janeiro).


 C. Fostering the Leventis Relationship

 Over the REF period we have expanded our relationship with the Leventis Foundation
 exponentially, ever building their confidence in us by efficient and excellent stewardship
 of their donations. During the REF2014 period the foundation funded 2 PhD
 Studentships for us; during the REF2021 period, 5. The £203k it gave us in support
 during 2014-18 (including for RF Rowan) has grown to £240k during 2018-21 (including
 for RFs Gerolemou and Salvo). The total value of the relationship over the current REF
 period has been over £400k. Our successful late-2020 application to the Foundation for
 a funded Chair will now bring £1.2m into the Department from 2021.

 During 2010-18 the CHRGCS Centre worked with the Foundation to establish the
 Leventis Initiative on the Impact of Greek on non-Greek culture in Antiquity. This
 included financial support for a sequence of outstanding postdoctoral researchers in
 diverse sub-fields, two of whom the role boosted directly into permanent positions:

                 King (history of pain), whom we were able to make permanent (in 2014;
        hired in 2012), ensuring that the work of the Initiative will continue at Exeter and
        that the foundation’s benefaction will be long remembered in his
        title, ‘The Leventis Lecturer.’

              Rowan (diet and food-ways in the ancient Mediterranean, esp. the
        archaeobotanical remains from Herculaneum), who moved to a Lectureship in
        Classical Archaeology at Royal Holloway, 2017).

 The Initiative has further supported three major conferences. The Leventis relationship
 also offers opportunities for public engagement, in biennial Lectures for the foundation at
 London’s Hellenic Centre.


 D. Balancing Scholarly and Organisational Infrastructures

 The Department’s prime reporting forum for research is its weekly seminar, into which
 the work of its Centres feeds (§1.C).

 The integration of research with other functions of the Department (esp. teaching at
 BA/MA level) is administered by the DSG and by regular departmental meetings of all
 staff. Success in securing research grants is underpinned by an organisational

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 infrastructure managed by the DoR. All grant applications are submitted with close
 supervision and support from the DoR and the DoI, and a departmental peer-
 reviewer/mentor. The College’s Research Support Team is dedicated to working with
 staff on grant costings and management, whilst the DH Lab aids colleagues in designing
 more technically complex bids, advises on data management plans and supervises the
 digital work.

 To maximise internationally recognised and world-leading outputs and impact, CAH has
 abandoned cyclical entitlements to internal research leave in favour of a competitive
 bidding process (§2.C), whilst ensuring that the leave-slots awarded are distributed
 evenly across gender and seniority; in effect one slot is guaranteed for an ECR
 applicant in each round.


 E. The Library: Enhancing Information Accessibility

 CAH has long been generously supported by the Library, and we have been denied no
 resource for which we have asked. Beyond normal funds, the University’s ‘21st-Century
 Library’ Initiative has channelled an additional £90k into Classics holdings to ensure,
 chiefly by building up digital resources, that:

       our Library is equipped with the fundamental tools of modern Classics research

       our researchers can pursue the bulk of their research effectively in Exeter itself
    (with minimal travel to other libraries; this policy is strongly carbon-aware)

       a similar level of support is offered to distance-learning Classics PGRs.

 Our long-serving departmental Library Officer (Flower) has worked meticulously to fill
 gaps in Classics holdings, electronic and print. We now have access to all the standard
 electronic resources covering inscriptions; texts and commentaries; translations;
 monograph series; and dictionaries, encyclopaedias; image databases; and gateway
 scholarship.

 All colleagues and PGRs benefit from unlimited inter-library loans, and all research staff
 benefit from a research allowance of £1000 p.a. (for non-Library expenses). At ECR
 level, our Leventis fellows receive an enhanced allowance of £2000 p.a.


 F. Embedding Digital Humanities

 CAH aspires ever to increase its exploitation of DH and has achieved a step-change in
 this over the REF period (evidence below). The Department has been a pioneering force
 within the College of Humanities in the application of digital techniques in both the
 conduct and promulgation of research (NB Pitts’ Big Data on the Roman Table project),
 and when the College established its dedicated DH Lab in 2017 (£1.2m investment), it
 appropriately appointed (additional) Classics-facing staff to two of the Unit’s three
 permanent academic posts: Isaksen (Director) and Tupman. These appointments, and
 the support that the DH Lab provides throughout a project life-cycle to deliver rigorous
 digital-research outputs, have directly enabled new work in the following digital fields:

 Text Encoding/Text Analysis

       EpiDoc (Tupman et al.), international standards for the digital encoding of
    inscriptions and papyri in TEI XML. An output of Mitchell’s Newton Fellowship (2018-
    20) is a translation of these guidelines into Portuguese.


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Mapping Migration in Roman Iberia (Holleran, designed in consultation with
    Tupman); this produced a searchable map and database of inscriptions relating to
    population movement in Iberia, enabling innovative exploration of the dynamics of
    Roman regional population movement (2017-21).

       Latin WordNet (https://latinwordnet.exeter.ac.uk) and Ancient Greek WordNet
    (https://greekwordnet.chs.harvard.edu) projects, in conjunction with semantic search
    engine Cylleneus (Short, 2017-).

        Connecting Late Antiquities (Flower, Tupman):
    (http://humanities.exeter.ac.uk/classics/research/projects/late-antiquities/). This
    project creates an open prosopographical database for Roman and post-Roman
    territories, uniting several disparate resources in a consolidated reference work
    (2019-).

 Linked Open Data

       Pelagios Commons, a major Linked Open Data project for the ancient and
    medieval worlds, linking cultural heritage datasets through geospatial references
    (Director: Isaksen), funded by the Mellon Foundation.
     Recogito, a digital annotation tool for text and images (Isaksen), also funded by
    Mellon.

 Artificial Intelligence

       Reconsidering the Roman Workshop (Tupman), a collaboration between
    Classics and Computer Science funded by Exeter’s Institute for Data Science and
    Artificial Intelligence (IDSAI), which uses machine learning to analyse images of
    Latin inscriptions to investigate how they were created (2019-20).
     Automated Detection of Hillforts in South West England Using a Machine
    Learning Approach (Isaksen), a collaboration between Classics, Archaeology and
    Computer Science, also IDSAI-funded, testing automated pattern-recognition of Iron
    Age hillforts in laser-scanning data (2020-).


 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and
 society

 We aim to make a world-leading impact within and beyond the academy in the fields of
 our principal themes (Hellenism, Connectivity, Knowledge, Reception) and others; to do
 so continuing as pioneers of DH techniques in our discipline; by endeavour both
 collaborative and egalitarian; and thereby to shape, sustain and give leadership to our
 discipline nationally and internationally.

 Collaborative projects energise our research culture, facilitate engagement for ECRs
 and PGRs, and support them in building their networks and careers. We promote
 collaborative activities by maintaining good internal communication and planning
 proactively and to enable colleagues, ECRs and others, to exploit opportunities,
 including for funding. The breadth, depth and global spread of our current collaborations
 speak to the sustainability of our research culture (map appended). Examples supplied
 are extremely selective.


 A. Transforming Culture and Society through Impact and Engagement

 The Department fosters a purposefully diverse impact portfolio extending far beyond its
 ICSs (not foregrounded here). It practises sustained engagement with, and delivers

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 benefits to, the heritage and educational sectors locally, nationally, and internationally.
 Our vibrant research culture leads to new artistic and cultural products targeting a broad
 audience.

 Our international digital projects benefit heritage and education sectors. Pelagios
 (Isaksen) benefits cultural heritage professionals working in collections management (in
 the UK, the BL and the Fitzwilliam specifically). It delivers a geodata demonstrator model
 that links data for a variety of digital content. The 25+ partners include the Austrian
 Institute of Technology and the Humboldt Institute for Internet and Society. Its Recogito2
 Annotation Platform (2017), with 4,000 registered users, was awarded the 2018
 International Digital-Humanities Award for 'Best Tool or Suite of Tools.’ Cylleneus (Short)
 benefits the secondary education sector with an innovative semantic, grammatical and
 syntactical search engine for Greek and Latin digital corpora. Of Coins and Kings
 (Mitchell, Newton Fellowship Co-I) benefits Brazilian schools with 3D technology for
 teaching history through numismatics (3 pilot schools).

 Other colleagues’ creative products reach an international audience. Hauser’s popular
 novels on women of Greek myth, the Golden Apple trilogy (Penguin-Random House,
 UK; Pegasus, US; Goldman, German trans.) has sold 10,000+ copies across all
 continents and led to 40 school talks across the UK and US, numerous media
 appearances, including BBC Radio 4 Woman’s Hour (2016), and multiple newspaper
 articles, e.g., Guardian, Sunday Times, Telegraph (‘28 of the best books for your
 summer holiday’). Wright’s published translations of the fragments of lesser-known
 authors of Greek tragedy furnished the libretto for Kate Soper's Missing Scenes,
 premiered at the Chicago Center for Contemporary Composition (2019).

 At national level, Developing Political Literacy in Schools: Thinking Through Thucydides
 (Morley, Mitchell) collaborates with the Politics Project and established politicians to
 introduce non-Classics schoolchildren (including in Manchester, Brighton, Bath) to
 political debate (a group was recently interviewed by Lord Putnam in the House of
 Lords). The Melian Dialogues Project (Morley) collaborates with London theatre groups
 Arch468 and Fast Familiar to develop drama-based training exercises in negotiation for
 companies.

 We have a strong record of direct local engagement with the secondary and non-formal
 learning sectors. Our Isca Latina project (Marshall) has worked with our undergraduates
 since 2013 to deliver GSCE Latin in Widening-Participation schools (c.30 p.a. in Queen
 Elizabeth’s, Crediton, c.15 p.a. elsewhere). The Department has contributed to the
 AHRC-funded Advocating Classics Education project, and it reaches out to areas of high
 deprivation in Plymouth and Torbay in partnership with Classics for All (Marshall). The
 CA South West branch is run from the Department (McDonald, Marshall) but promotes
 accessibility by holding the talks in Exeter (sixth form) College (attendance c.30).
 Similarly, we increase community access to some of our conferences by holding them at
 the local learned society on the Cathedral Green, the Devon and Exeter Institution.
 McDonald conducts ‘Epigraphy Days’ with Devon local history groups in Exeter
 Cathedral, focusing on novel ways of reading inscriptions. Galluzzo collaborates with
 U3A Exeter branch and colleagues (e.g., Nicholson, Tupman) give talks at Dartmouth
 U3A.

 Examples of creative engagement with the Devon community include Earnshaw’s twice-
 AHRC-funded Farming the Classics project, a collaboration with Quicke’s Farm
 (Crediton), other local producers and local artist Laura Hopes; this promotes public
 engagement with Virgil’s Georgics and ‘material ecocriticism’ through poetry/soil
 workshops, guided walks, and local-artwork exhibitions (including a film subsequently
 shown internationally). The Department regularly contributes to the national Being
 Human Festival, e.g., Carlà’s ‘Interactive Theme Park Game’ and Morley’s ‘Thinking
 through Fragments’ event, designed with Exeter-based production-studio Kaleider. The

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Courtenay Chronicles project (Tupman), with Powderham Castle, provides digitised
 open access to these manuscripts and contributes to the Castle’s standing exhibition.
 Langlands has worked with Effervescent (Plymouth) to enable vulnerable youngsters to
 articulate experience of trauma through exhibitions.

 Beyond colleagues’ regular appearances in traditional media (e.g. Earnshaw in
 conversation with rap-musician Akala for BBC4’s Akala’s Odyssey), contributions to new
 media include Morley’s podcast series Thucydiocy, discussing the history of the
 misquotation of Thucydides, and Flower’s AHRC-funded podcasts Distant Pasts:
 Adventures in an Alternative Antiquity, which challenge complacency by adducing the
 ancient world’s radically different solutions to contemporary problems (accessed 6,000+
 times). Morley’s Sphinx blog similarly explores antiquity and modernity (40-45,000 page-
 views p.a.). The Transformations project (Langlands) works with transgender youth and
 artists (and charity Gendered Intelligence) to produce historically inspired podcast-
 dramas.


 B. Collaborating and Networking

 Beyond collaborations with non-academic local partners (§4.A), CAH boasts wide-
 ranging academic collaborations.

 The department’s commitment to interdisciplinarity manifests itself in collaborations
 internal to the University: the CCRW, CKIC and CCR centres embrace interdisciplinary
 memberships (§1.D.v), and colleagues have collaborated individually with staff in
 Computer Science, Geography, Law, Politics, Modern Languages and the Security and
 Strategy Institute. 9 PGRs have been co-supervised with the Arabic Institute, English,
 Computer Science, Politics, Theology and Art History.

 National academic collaborations include The South West and Wales Late Antiquity
 Network, incorporating colleagues from Bristol, Cardiff, Reading, Southampton and
 Swansea (Flower) and the Embodied Mind Cluster, based in Bristol (Earnshaw,
 Salvo, Gerolemou).

 Colleagues have established 20+ international academic collaborations of substance.
 Some unite multiple continents, e.g. The EpiDoc Action Group (Tupman), which
 produces the EpiDoc Guidelines for digital publication of inscriptions and papyri. The
 Antigonid Network (Nicholson, founder-director) unites scholars from Milan, St Olaf’s,
 Thessaloniki, Waterloo (Canada) and Otago. The AHRC-funded network Big Data on the
 Roman Table (Pitts) unites the superintendencies of Piemonte and Pompeii, participants
 from France, the Netherlands, Germany, Croatia, Spain, Egypt, Canada and USA, as
 well as UK-based non-HEIs, including Museum of London, Archaeology SE, Oxford
 Archaeology, Vindolanda Trust, Historic Scotland. Lexicon Translaticium Graecum et
 Latinum (Short) builds a dictionary of Greek and Latin metaphor in collaboration with
 LMU-Munich, Genoa, Paris-Sorbonne, Colgate. Langlands and Hauser have joined the
 EuGeStA network (‘European Gender Studies in Antiquity’, uniting LMU-Munich, Lille,
 Paris 1 and 7, Turin, Basel, Berne, UCLA, Toronto (MoUs signed). Langlands has joined
 the Im Spiegel der Republik: Valerius Maximus’ Facta et Dicta Memorabilia project,
 funded by the Swiss National Science Foundation, uniting scholars from Fribourg, Cape
 Town and Johns Hopkins in a collaborative commentary on Valerius. The Connecting
 Late Antiquities project (Flower) collaborates with Paris-Est Créteil, Ghent, Mainz,
 Rome, Babes-Bolyai, Iowa, Urbana-Champaign (and in the UK Sheffield, London and
 Cambridge).

 Other collaborations target America, e.g.: Ancient Greek WordNet (Short), a network
 based at the Center for Hellenic Studies (DC); the Ancient Panel Paintings: Examination,
 Analysis and Research network (‘APPEAR’) is based at the Getty (Borg). Others again

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 target Europe, such as Aristotle's Metaphysics (Galluzzo), uniting Paris-Sorbonne and
 Blaise Pascal in a collaborative French translation and commentary. The Colli Albani
 project (Borg, Manetta) incorporates the Soprintendenza Archeologia, Belle Arti e
 Paesaggio, Aarhus University and LMU-Munich. Exeter (Tupman, Co-I.) is a founder of
 the AHRC-funded UK—Ireland Digital Humanities Network, alongside TCD.

 The Department has been markedly successful in leveraging generous College funding
 for Visiting International Academic Fellowships (VIAFs). The many visitors brought in by
 the Centres under this scheme are exemplified in §1.D.iii. Other international visitors
 include Pat Wheatley (Otago) and Damaris Romero-Gonzalez (Cordóba, annually).


 C. Championing and Sustaining the UK Classics Scene

 The Department punches above its weight (size) in its contribution to sustaining the
 research culture of the world’s premier national Classics community.

 During the REF period we have hosted 16 international conferences, including: Ātman
 and Psyche (Seaford), Valerius Maximus and Exemplarity (Langlands), Classical
 Literature and Quotation Culture (Wright), Pain in the Ancient World (King, within
 CHGRCS), Antigonid Macedon (Nicholson, within CHGRCS), Technological Animation
 in Classical Antiquity (Gerolemou, within CKIC). We foster our ECRs’ careers through
 such conferences, giving them useful opportunities to establish their research
 reputations.

 The leadership CAH gives to professional associations shapes the future of our
 discipline (and others), e.g.: Marshall has served on the CUCD Committee and the CA in
 numerous roles (Statistics Officer, Outreach Office, Chair of Teaching Board); McDonald
 and Salvo are founder-members and officers of the Women’s Classical Committee;
 Salvo is ECR representative on the ICS Advisory Council; Tupman has served on the
 British Epigraphy Society steering committee and is Treasurer of the European
 Association for Digital Humanities; Isaksen is Executive Chair of the Alliance of Digital
 Humanities Organisations.

 Colleagues give guidance to sister-departments through subject-reviewing. Borg is
 Deputy Chair of the REF2021 Classics Panel. We have particularly fostered the
 burgeoning new Classics Department in Winchester by externaling (Mitchell), REF-
 output-assessing (Wright) and subject-reviewing (Ogden). Subject-reviews have also
 been undertaken at Oxford (Borg), Reading (Wright), Edinburgh, Liverpool and
 Southampton (Mitchell).

 We shape the course of funded research with a large commitment to the AHRC Peer
 Review College (Isayev, Borg, Flower, Holleran, Pitts and Morley all serving). Isaksen
 chairs the AHRC UK-US Digital Scholarships in Cultural Collections Funding Panel and
 co-chairs the AHRC-IRC funding panel for UK-Ireland cooperation in the Digital
 Humanities.

 We support the quality of PGR research with an extensive commitment to the external
 examining of UK PhDs, at, e.g., Birmingham, Bristol, Cambridge, Cardiff, Edinburgh,
 KCL, Nottingham, Open, Reading, Royal Holloway, St Andrews, Southampton, UCL
 (Borg, Flower, Holleran, Langlands, Mitchell, Morley, ni Mheallaigh, Ogden, Pitts,
 Wright).

 We support UK-based journals by serving on their boards, e.g., JRS (Borg, Flower,
 Morley); Classical Receptions (Earnshaw, Morley). We promote the publication of
 monographs by refereeing regularly for the major UK Classical presses (including CUP,
 OUP, Bloomsbury, Wiley) and by serving on monograph committees, e.g., Ancient

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Cultures, New Materialisms series, EUP (Earnshaw), Archaeology of Roman Britain,
 British Archaeological Reports (Pitts), British Academy Medieval Texts (Galluzzo),
 Liverpool Studies in Ancient History (Flower), Oxyrhynchus Papyri (Leith), Palgrave
 Studies in Ancient Economies (Holleran).


 D. Championing and Sustaining the International Classics Scene

 The Department makes a significant contribution to sustaining the subject and promoting
 its own and the UK’s academic values at international level. Its ability to do so is a
 marker of the esteem in which the unit is held in the worldwide Classical community.

 Colleagues are in high demand for international keynotes and named lectures, delivering
 some 26 in the period, including: Humboldt (Borg: August Boeckh Lectures), Paris-Est
 Créteil (Langlands), Genoa (ni Mheallaigh), Leiden (Pitts), Moscow (Mitchell) Sorbonne
 (Short), Tartu (Mitchell), Vienna, (Borg: Eranos Vindobonensis Lecture), Alberta
 (Ogden), Harvard (Borg: Jackson Lectures), Sao Paolo (Galluzzo), Louvre Abu Dhabi
 (Pitts), Kyoto (Flower), Perm (Mitchell).

 Within the REF period colleagues have co-organised 15 overseas conferences,
 including Concept of Pneuma after Aristotle (Leith, Berlin, TOPOI), Mapping Sexual
 Knowledge (Langlands; Berkley), Linked Pasts III and IV (Isaksen; Stanford, Mainz), Of
 Coins and Kings (Mitchell; Rio), Beyond the Northern Aegean (Manetta; Greece,
 Bulgaria). Morley is standing co-chair of the European Social Science History
 Conference’s Antiquity Network (2009-).

 The Department gives leadership to international professional associations, e.g.:
 Academia Europea (which shapes government policies on research and funding; Borg,
 archaeology rep.); European Association for Digital Humanities (Tupman, treasurer),
 International Society for the History of the Map (Isaksen, trustee, treasurer). We shape
 the direction of international funded research by serving on overseas grants and
 fellowship committees, e.g.: European Research Council (Borg, standing referee),
 European Association for the Digital Humanities, Grants Committee (Isaksen), Classical
 Reception Studies Network (Langlands, steering committee). We undertake consultant
 reviewing for international research councils and foundations, e.g.: Princeton’s and
 Aarhus’ Institutes of Advanced Studies; Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft; Einstein-
 Stiftung; Fond National de la Recherche Luxembourg; Fritz Thyssen Stiftung; Research
 Council of Norway; Schweizerischer Nationalfond; South African National Research
 Foundation; Swedish Research Council (esp. Borg, Flower, Galluzzo, Holleran, Isaksen,
 Langlands).

 We shape the discipline by reviewing for US tenure reviews and professorial
 appointments at, e.g., Chicago, Columbia, Harvard, Michigan, Princeton (Borg, Mitchell,
 Morley).

 We champion quality in the discipline by examining international PhDs, e.g., at:
 Bourgogne, Complutense, Ghent, Helsinki, Lille, McGill, Macquarie, Padua, Pisa, Otago,
 Siena, Sorbonne, Tasmania, University of Western Australia (Borg, Galluzzo, Mitchell, ni
 Mheallaigh, Ogden, Salvo). We also supply direct training to PGRs in international
 departments, e.g., Morley has led workshops for doctoral students at Toronto-
 Mississauga, Leiden, Ghent, Regensburg, Zagreb.

 We support international journals by serving on their boards, e.g., Acta Classica
 (Ogden), Araucaria (Gerolemou), Göttinger Forum für Altertumswissenschaften (Borg),
 Historische Zeitschrift (Morley), Journal of Computer Applications in Archaeology
 (Isaksen), Millennium (Borg), Quaderni del Ramo d'Oro (Short, Langlands). Galluzzo co-
 edits Documenti e studi sulla tradizione filosofica medievale.

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We promote the publication of monographs at international level by serving on editorial
 committees, e.g. BSA (Tupman, advisor on digital publications); BSR (Borg, Chair of
 Publications); Digital Humanities and Cultural Heritage monograph series, Grenoble-
 Alpes UP (Isaksen); Pleiades Gazetteer of Ancient Places (Tupman), SAPERE (Borg).

 The Department coordinated the successful international petition (4,838 signatures) to
 save the teaching of Greek at the University of Copenhagen, 2016 (Ogden, Mitchell,
 Borg, with PGR Djurslev): http://tinyurl.com/zbj28bg

 The Department’s international profile is saluted by its honorary visiting fellowships, e.g.,
 at: Freie Universität Berlin (Morley, Einstein VF), ANU, Australia (Isayev), Tübingen
 (Isayev), Uppsala (Salvo), Stellenbosch (Borg, Extraordinary Professor), UNISA
 (Ogden), and by its winning of international awards, e.g., International Digital Humanities
 Awards (Isaksen, for Peripleo and Recogito).

 The international leadership we are able to give our discipline demonstrates the success
 of our research strategy.




 Figure 1: International academic collaborations.
 https://www.google.com/maps/d/viewer?mid=1UHSrNEF8ZPsm0qqWzulOxPS_9ZPRCm-R&usp=sharing




                                                                                                 Page 19
