Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: London Metropolitan University (1 Aug 2013 to 31 July 2020)

 Unit of Assessment: Business and Management

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


Overview of the 2014-2020 Research and Impact Strategy for UoA 17

The submission for the Business and Management Unit of Assessment presents the work of
academics from the Guildhall School of Business and Law (GSBL). A significant minority of
academics from the School have also been returned to UoA 23 (Bamford, DeMarco, Messenger,
Toto), UoA 25 (Fischer), and UoA32 (Cambridge, Gold), reflecting the diverse research community
in the School and the traditions of interdisciplinary connectivity within the wider research community.
Such cross-university working is also reflected in recent and ongoing projects (such as the Wittington
project by Hills with an Area Studies Researcher).

The School is organised into five subject areas, four of which (Law, Strategic Management,
Marketing and Creative Enterprise, Accounting Banking and Finance) are within the remit of the
submission. GSBL is led by a Dean (Kalantaridis) who is included in the submission. Research
matters are led by the Head of Research (Schedlitzki), who is also included in the submission, and
who is supported by a PhD Coordinator). School-based Research is governed by the Research and
Knowledge Exchange Committee which oversees the activities of two sub-committees: the Research
Student Progress Group (RSPG) and the Research Ethics Review Panel (RERP).

The corresponding REF2014 submission, comprising of four academics, reflected i) a concentration
of resources on 3* and 4* outputs, ii) a focus on the mainstream of business and management
research that was viewed as coherent with iii) the School’s location in the City of London.

The move of the School to Holloway Road (an area defined by diversity and socio-economic
challenges), reinforced GSBL’s focus on its distinct student demographics. Specifically, the School’s
student body includes 52% female students, 57% from BAME communities, 29% are aged 30 or
over, and a significant minority (45%) live in deprived areas (Index of Multiple Deprivation: 1-2).
Diversity and inclusivity are therefore key themes at GSBL.

A university-level strategic focus on ‘Giving Back to our City’ and the provision of inclusive education
opportunities for GSBL’s diverse student population has paved the way for research becoming
increasingly important in GSBL, reconnecting the school with the University’s long tradition of
research into inequality, and a radical reconsideration of GSBL’s research strategy for 2014-2020.
During this time period the School had three aims:
1.     To grow research that addresses significant local and national issues and produces impacts
       and outputs that offer solutions and improved social value for all stakeholders.
2.     To increase the proportion of academics involved in research of international quality;
3.     To ensure that there is plurality of research voices, reflecting the diversity of the GSBL
       academic community (47% woman and 38% from BAME communities).

Aims 1 and 2 were facilitated by the availability of seed corn funding and resources for new strategic
initiatives (see section 2 for further detail and examples) and by working collaboratively with
researchers across the world. Aim 2 was further addressed by investing in early-stage research,
providing quality mentoring and professional development opportunities, and targeted appointments,
and aim 3 was facilitated through transition policies (see section 2).

As a result of these initiatives, the main outcomes of the 2014-2020 Strategy were: First, the
emergence of new streams of research focusing on the first strategic aim (68% of papers returned
here having an explicit focus on social value for all stakeholders). Secondly, the number of
academics with responsibility for research (aim 2) in UoA 17 has almost tripled to 11 (including 4

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
ECRs). Lastly, there was more diversity in the research base (in terms of experience and subject
focus) than was the case in 2014.

Evidence of progress (2014-2020)
In accordance with the School’s first strategic objective:

    •   GSBL has seen a significant growth in internationally recognised research since 2014 across
        two broad themes: (i) networks and markets and (ii) social value. Within the broad theme of
        networks and markets, there are several contributions on the issues and inherent risks of
        networks and markets from both a business and law perspective (Alfadhel, Caldwell,
        Magklasi, You). A link is also drawn here between global supply chains and environmental
        sustainability through the exploration of CO2 reduction (Idowu). The latter contribution is
        interlinked with the second broad theme of social value within GSBL Research. A focus on
        social value is strongly reflected in contributions on the context of public private partnerships
        (Caldwell), analysis of ‘what is evidence’ (Bartlett), social responsibility (Mujih) through sports
        (Hills), migration (Kalantaridis, Shortland), organizational social capital in family SMEs
        (Kalantaridis), University spinouts (Pitsakis) and commercialisation (Kalantaridis, Pitsakis).
        Going forward, close engagement with the Accelerator (London Met's specialist ICT and
        digital media business incubator) will offer these researchers a social laboratory to advance
        this impactful research. Taking social value to both a specific disciplinary level and to
        practice, there are further contributions tackling diversity in HRM, in particular the issues of
        gender and age inequalities (Cartwright, Tomlinson) and the complexities of expatriation
        (Shortland). Finally, outputs on the role of context, culture and ethics in leadership and
        leadership development (Schedlitzki) add to GSBL’s research contribution on diversity and
        inclusivity.

The impact of GSBL’s research on local communities is exemplified by the two UoA17 impact case
studies submitted:

    •   The first case study (Hills) informs and evidences London-based Sport-for-Development
        interventions tackling unemployment, physical inactivity and socio-emotional skills in
        deprived communities. Recommendations provided in the underpinning research improved
        interventions (e.g., employability outcomes in Fulham FC’s ‘My Future Goal’ programme
        increased by 123%). Evidence in the research of effect led to NFL Flag, an intervention
        tackling childhood obesity, being rolled-out nationwide and the Fulham FC ‘My Future Goal’
        employability programme being expanded to a Premier League-wide employability
        programme called ‘Premier League Works’. The findings of lack of effectiveness for the
        ‘Explorer’ programme led to Magic Bus re-directing £60,000 to markets where their
        methodology had previously been proven effective.

    •   GSBL’s relationship with London and the welfare of those living in London is again apparent
        in the second impact case study (Bagwell, O’Keefe and Doff), where research informed and
        facilitated the changes required to make it easier for food outlets to sell healthier takeaways.
        The use of the ‘takeaway toolkit’ has been effective in implementing and developing specific
        viable business models; introducing changes to suppliers’ marketing and pricing policy to
        promote healthier products for businesses to purchase; and enhancing public health
        practitioners' abilities to deliver healthier catering practices with local authorities. The
        introduction of the ‘takeaway toolkit' by local authorities has resulted in 1,422 takeaway
        businesses being recruited to healthier catering schemes; all 33 London boroughs and 3
        local authorities in England used the toolkit to promote healthier catering programmes; and
        new national government policy has been developed.

Evidence of advances in relation to the School’s second research aim is shown in:

•       An almost triple increase in the number of academic FTEs returned to the REF, supported
        by the inclusion of Law colleagues in the Unit: from 4 in 2014 to 11 in 2020.


                                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•        The rebalancing between established and early career researchers – blending the talents of
         academics who only recently completed their doctoral studies (Alfadhel, Cartwright, Hills and
         Magklesi) with more established GSBL academics (Bartlett, Caldwell, Idowu, Kalantaridis,
         Mujih, Pitsakis, Schedlitzki, Shortland, Tomlinson and You).
•        The increase in the absolute number of doctoral completions from 20 to 38. In this context it
         is important to stress the School’s continued commitment to support PhD completions by
         academics at the School, as a way of growing research capacity.

Evidence of progress in relation to the third strategic aim is apparent in:

•        46% of category A and B researchers are female (Alfadhel, Cartwright, Magklasi, Schedlitzki,
         Shortland, Tomlinson and You). This is in line with the 47% of female academics in GSBL
         and the 46% in the wider Business and Management academic community (CABS, 2020).
•        38% of category A and B researchers (Alfadhel, Idowu, Mujih and You) fall within the BAME
         category. This is again in line with the 38% of BAME staff in GSBL and well above the 14%
         in the wider Business and Management academic community (CABS, 2020).
•        It is further worth noting that UoA 23 is led by the School’s Head of Student Experience
         (Bamford), reflecting the School’s dedication to supporting and growing a diversity of
         research voices.

Future Focus

Building on these positive outcomes, the School has set the following strategic goals for the period
until 2022-23.

•        Increase the number of intellectual contributions aimed at providing solutions that not only
         produce economic advantage but also lead to social value generation from the 28 outputs
         included in this UoA submission to 40 (for the period 2021-2023).
•        Increase the percentage of academics that produce research outputs that are peer reviewed
         to be of international standing from 17% to 30% by 2022-23.
•        Increase the number of doctoral students at the School from 27 to 40 by 2022-23 and improve
         PhD completion rates.
•        Grow the volume of research income generated in GSBL to £100,000 per year by 2022-23.
•        Make further gains in re-balancing the gender and BAME representation of academics with
         significant responsibility for research and align this with the communities we serve (currently
         52% woman and 57% from BAME communities).
•        Strengthen further the impact of GSBL research on student pathways and stakeholder
         communities through knowledge exchange activities and working in collaboration with the
         Accelerator.


    2. People

Staffing strategy and staff development

The GSBL staffing strategy includes the expectation that at least half of all new employees will be
research active; a strategy underpinned by a rigorous process of external reviewing of candidate
outputs. Where candidates have only recently completed their PhD and are yet to publish, the
staffing strategy involves an assessment of the realistic probability of the individuals becoming
independent researchers within two years. Other elements of the staffing strategy are i) to appoint
to specific subject areas with the aim of balancing the need to deliver our portfolio of courses but
also ii) to develop clusters of excellence in research and iii) to align appointments with the School’s
focus on social value.

The School has a clear procedure for career development and a rigorous promotion process for
academic staff. This includes the use of research plans to inform annual appraisal meetings focussed
on setting research targets, providing guidance, identifying potential areas of concern, and reviewing

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
other aspects that contribute to a successful academic career. This annual review process supports
academic staff in their application for University-wide promotion rounds, where academics can
submit applications to gain advancement to Associate Professor, Reader and Professor rank, in
research, enterprise, teaching and learning, or a combination of two or more.

The School offers individual support and an environment supportive of research for its academics.
As far as individual support is concerned this involves the following initiatives:

•      Mentoring Scheme: All staff with significant responsibility for research are part of the School’s
       mentoring scheme. As of January 2020, there are 30 academics in the School involved in
       either a mentor or mentee capacity in the Scheme. In niche areas where specialist expertise
       is required, the School engages mentors from Universities such as City and Nottingham.
•      Timetabled Research Allowances (TRAs): there is a structured academic programme for
       securing research allowances for all academics at GSBL. The scheme offers time off from
       teaching to all those who have either shown evidence or promise of producing research
       outputs, whilst those with no experience in research are offered mentoring and can apply for
       funding to realise their ambitions.
•      Research Leave: A University-wide scheme is also in operation at GSBL. This provides
       academics who have shown evidence of producing research outputs eligible of a semester
       of research leave for every three years of service. In 2020/21 there are two academics from
       the School on research leave and the School will continue to support at least 2 academics
       each year through this scheme. It is particularly suitable for early career researchers who
       have just started to produce outputs and wish to develop their research capacity. To facilitate
       this, the School uses a rota system for all research active staff (once they have completed
       their probation).
•      The School offers funds to academics in a competitive manner in order to support their
       research ambitions. There are three types of funding available: individual applications for
       conference participation or seed-corn to initiate research activities (£1,000), rescaling funds
       aimed to boost already existing research (up to £5,000) and transformational funds (for large-
       scale initiatives aimed to achieve step change). During the 2019/20 academic year £102,538
       was distributed to academics through these three mechanisms and similar levels of funding
       are expected to be allocated in 2020/21 and in subsequent years. Such funding has, for
       example, enabled Idowu to review CSR policies in sub-Sahara Africa (specifically the link
       between CSR and business performance) in a context beyond that of extant literature
       dominated by western perspectives.

Beyond these, and in the context of creating an environment supportive of research, the School has
a dedicated staff development budget (c. £9,000) in addition to, and different from, the three funds
identified previously. This funding is used to offer academics the opportunity to access external and
internal training courses. Staff are also encouraged to make good use of the internal staff research
development programme organised by the Centre for Professional Education and Development,
which offers training on a wide range of topics including writing a research plan, research methods,
writing for publication, research income bidding, research ethics and research impact.

GSBL also runs a monthly research seminar series, where academics and PhD students as well as
visiting speakers are able to present their work. This is complemented by a monthly newsletter, which
updates colleagues on staff achievements, bidding opportunities and upcoming events and an
annual research methods festival, which aims to not only advance best practice in methodologies
that are common in the discipline but also promote new and innovative ones. Lastly, all academics
are given the opportunity to take part in a writing retreat that takes place in September. All GSBL
research initiatives are run virtually, recorded and disseminated to all GSBL staff as a developmental
resource.

The School places particular emphasis on developing early career researchers. Thus, in addition to
the support offered above it offers fee waivers for academics who undertake doctoral study at GSBL
or support with doctoral fees when studying at other universities. Since 2014 five academic


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
beneficiaries (one since retired) of the scheme completed their doctoral studies at LMU, whilst two
academics have benefited from internal fee waivers and three from external fee support in 2019/20.

In order to achieve a plurality of research voices the School further adopts a balanced approach (in
terms of gender and ethnicity) in the composition of panels for research appointments and
promotions. Unconscious bias training is compulsory for all academics at GSBL, and by implication
those taking part in selection processes. Given the widely recognised effect of maternity leave on
women researchers, an excellent parental leave policy (providing leave entitlement to both fathers
and mothers) and a carefully managed return to work process has been established: resulting in
excellent tenure rates: between 2015-19 10 academic staff in GSBL took up maternity leave, 9
returned and 6 remained after 6 months. Lastly, a BAME academic network has been established at
the School in order to provide peer support for career advancement.


Support mechanisms for, and evidence of the training and supervision of, PGR students:

Research students are an important element of the School research community. During the census
period, a total of 38 research doctoral degrees have been supervised to successful completion, whilst
there are also another 15 doctoral students currently being supervised in the area of Business and
Management. The majority of current and completed students are mature students, who come – in
the main – from the BAME communities served by the School.

An important element of doctoral study at GSBL has been the rigorous recruitment process focussed
on the quality of applications. Acceptance is based on the quality of applicants and strategic fit with
research expertise. Supervisory teams, comprising of two academics, are designed to combine an
experienced supervisor with a newer member of staff. This practice allows less experienced research
staff to develop supervisory skills, and ultimately enhances the pool of doctoral supervisors and thus
supervisory capacity at the School.

LMU provides a comprehensive training programme for PGR students, including research methods
and skills elements, supplemented by specialist sessions supported by academics at GSBL. In the
2019/20 academic year, there were 28 training sessions, which covered topics such as transferring
from MPhil to PhD, well-being, research ethics, GDPR and open data, the viva, presenting and
publishing research, N-Vivo training and career avenues. Going forward, GSBL colleagues plan to
enhance this PGR training programme with tailored short courses on qualitative and quantitative
research methods. PhD students are also able to take up paid and unpaid teaching opportunities as
part of their wider academic development journey. The LMU Postgraduate Research Society was
set up in October 2018 as a society for London Met’s PhD, Prof Docs and MPhil students. It
constitutes a peer support group that organises events to connect research students from different
Schools and facilitate the development of collaborative research ideas. At a school level, the PGR
Coordinator and Head of Research run regular ‘coffee break’ meetings that enable students to raise
queries and encourage them to meet and support each other as a GSBL PGR community. In 2019,
LMU ran its first Research student/staff conference which provided PhD students with an excellent
opportunity to present on their research and receive constructive feedback from fellow students and
staff. All these central initiatives are fully supported by GSBL academics and well attended by GSBL
PhD students. GSBL PhD students can also apply for some small funds to support them in their
empirical research phase or to attend an external conference.

The progress of doctoral students at GSBL is monitored by a PhD Coordinator. The role involves
overseeing (together with the Head of Research) the PGR student experience from recruitment
through to completion. Important elements of that overseeing role are monitoring to ensure
supervisory teams are both active and adequately trained, including on mediating potential conflicts.
This role further entails chairing the School RSPG and Research Ethics Panel and co-operating with
the School PGR representative in creating/sustaining a School PGR community and research culture
by organising School-based PGR training events, PGR student or staff lectures/seminars and social
events, etc.


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
At the School level, a research degree student representative sits on the GSBL Research and
Knowledge Exchange Committee, ensuring the student voice is present in the strategic decisions of
the School. Student voice is also captured through the annual PGR student survey, the results of
which are considered at School Management Committee. The PGR co-ordinator further represents
the School at University Research Degree Committee and Research Ethics Sub-Committee
meetings, PGR Student/Staff Liaison Meetings and reports to the Head of the Graduate School in
sustaining and developing the University PGR research culture.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income

As stated in Section1, the strategy for the UoA and the School focused on growing research
capacities from a very low level in 2014. This emphasis, combined with limited institutional support
for securing funding for the conduct of research, and post-award infrastructure meant that the volume
of research income aligned to the submission is modest.

More specifically, during the period returned, academics at the UoA generated income of £322,000.
The two most important sources were EU government (£112,000) and UK government (£80,000).
UKRI income stood at £60,000. An example of recently completed externally funded research at the
School was the “Leading to Grow Programme: Managing new technology adoption”. This research
project was led by the Chartered Association of Business Schools, and GSBL was the only partner
based and conducting research in London.

Infrastructure and facilities

In September 2019 GSBL moved to its new accommodation at Holloway Road, renovated at a cost
of £4.55 million. The new accommodation has been designed with the aim of providing academics
with space for the collaboration that is so critical for the advancement of research. It also provides
proximity and immediacy to the London communities that GSBL aspires to serve. Perhaps most
importantly, locating the School on the same campus as four of the university’s six Schools, has
generated possibilities for interdisciplinary work, not least in shared research projects and
contributions to university research initiatives, including the Interdisciplinary Research Forum and
the Higher Education Research Group. The School also benefits from University-wide facilities
supporting research: namely the Research Office (recently formed to support the pursuit and
manage risks linked with the delivery of externally funded research), and the Graduate School (that
aims to enhance the PGR student experience).

Research infrastructure and facilities are also available via the Library, which is open 24 hours during
term-time. It provides both physical and extensive online resources that can be seamlessly accessed
externally. It offers e-journal resources, access to various business datasets, and to statistical
packages necessary to analyse datasets. Research in the UoA also benefits from a range of
innovative resources established to enhance knowledge transfer and the nurturing of SMEs. Of
particular importance is the London Metropolitan University Accelerator, which has been critical in
enhancing the engagement of researchers at GSBL with innovative enterprises. For example, Hills
won the Accelerator's university-wide Big Idea Challenge for a boxing-based mental health
intervention called BrainBox. In partnership with a London-based sport-for-development charity Fight
4 Change and local NHS mental health teams, this programme is now being piloted using £15,000
from the Higher Education Innovation Fund and £103,000 from Comic Relief and Greater London
Authority’s London Together Fund with Hills leading on the research to test the efficacy of the
programme.




                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Contributions to economy and society

Given the importance attached to social value, researchers from GSBL engaged extensively with
policy decision-making by giving expert advice over the census period. Cartwright was part of a team
commissioned to research the role of procurement and contractual practices in the contract cleaning
industry, on behalf of the Equality and Human Rights Commission. Cartwright also co-authored case
studies for the European Foundation on ‘sustainable work practices in the UK’ and ‘new forms of
employment: Slivers of Time’. Bartlett sat on the Future of NHS Leadership Inquiry Panel (chaired
by Sir Robert Naylor/Dame Gill Morgan) and Caldwell was a peer reviewer for the Government Office
for Science on maritime flows for the Future of the Sea project. In an international context, Magklasi
provided Maritime Law Training to a group of senior officials from different ministries of Bangladesh
and London in 2015 and Alfhadel was a researcher and contributor to LexisNexis Middle East as
part of the 'Gulf Legal Advisor' project. Finally, and as captured in the London-Based Sport for
Development impact case study, Hills provided expert advice to Sport England, the National Football
League (NFL), Fulham Football Club, Barclays Bank and Magic Bus on how to maximise their sport-
for-development interventions tackling childhood obesity, physical inactivity, unemployment, school
bullying and mental illness. He also sat on a panel for the All Party Parliamentary Group for Boxing
on the role of boxing in social change and was commissioned by Chris Evans MP, as chair of the All
Party Parliamentary Group for Boxing, to undertake a literature review into boxing and social
benefits. More recently, during the COVID-19 pandemic Hills was asked by the NHS Whittington
Trust (the university’s local hospital) to undertake research into factors that predict adherence to
social distancing rules, research he conducted with a colleague returned to the university’s Area
Studies submission.

Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

Academics at GSBL contribute to the wider discipline through i) co-authorship nationally and
internationally, ii) external collaboration with universities and networks, iii) providing peer review for
academic journals and grant awarding bodies; and iv) editing and serving on the editorial boards of
journals. GSBL also plays a significant role in the development of the research base within the
University and locally, by running colloquia, and examining PhDs. Notable examples (all of which
are current except where stated) are outlined below.

The individuals returned to the REF have co-authored outputs with collaborators within the UK, such
as the Universities of Manchester (Cartwright), East Anglia (Kalantaridis), Cranfield, Heriot Watt,
Bath, and Exeter (Caldwell), Oxford Brookes, Cass Business School and University of Warwick
(Pitsakis), University of the West of England, Lancaster and Essex (Schedlitzki) and internationally.
Examples of the latter include Jawaharlal Nehru University (Kalantaridis), Singapore Management
University and Oregon State Universities (Caldwell), University of Venice and Sungkyunwang
University (Pitsakis).

Engagement in international networks is another way of contributing to the research base.
Kalantaridis is a Visiting Scholar at the Ostrom Workshop in Political Theory and Policy Analysis,
University of Indiana Bloomington, USA. Pitsakis was an invited speaker at several European
universities, including Berlin School of Economics, University of Venice, Warsaw School of
Economics and the Russian Presidential Academy.

Journal editorial duties include: the International Journal of Corporate Social Responsibility (Idowu),
the American Journal of Business Administration and Economics (Idowu), the European Journal of
Innovation Management (Kalantaridis until 2016), and as Special Issue Editor for Advances in
Human Resources and Leadership (Schedlitzki). Academics at GSBL are also members of editorial
boards, including The Transport Law Review (Magklasi), the International Journal of Responsible
Management in Emerging Economies (Idowu), Sport Marketing Quarterly and the Journal of Applied

                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Sport Management (Hills), the International Journal of Operations and Production Management
(Caldwell), where he has also edited 2 special issues (2014 and 2019) and Leadership (Schedlitzki).

Idowu has been named on the ‘101 Most Impactful Corporate Social Responsibility Leaders’ list
(compiled by the Word Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Congress). In terms of international
academic networks, Caldwell is the Events Chair for the European Operations Management
Association (EurOMA) committee (2016-), which represents OM academics across Europe, and also
sits on the steering committee of the 6th World Conference on Production and Operations
Management - P&OM Nara, Japan, 2021. Schedlitzki has been co-chair of internationally recognised
conferences including Developing Leadership Capacity Conference (2018) and International
Studying Leadership Conference (2019).




                                                                                           Page 8
