Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of Oxford

 Unit of Assessment: 7 – Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.0 Overview

 We are submitting 42 staff (40.95 FTE), drawn from the Department of Earth Sciences (DoES)
 (35.95 FTE) and Oxford University Museum of Natural History (OUMNH) (5.00 FTE).

 Our research links fundamental curiosity-driven questions about how the Earth and other planets
 work today and in the distant past with pre-eminent societal challenges, such as rapid
 environmental change and sustainable natural resources. Our ethos is based in quantitative
 science using field and laboratory observations, physical and mathematical analysis, and
 knowledge transfer with cognate disciplines.

 Attracting and nurturing outstanding talent is central to all our goals. The appointment of 12 new
 faculty, six from outside the UK, during the REF period has been an outstanding opportunity to
 reinforce our strength in some areas and to create new capability in others. The appointment of
 Jon Blundy FRS (Royal Society Research Chair) invigorates our Planetary Science theme. Mike
 Kendall FRS (Chair of Geophysics) strengthens our study of the deep Earth and anchors a new
 initiative in cryosphere research. The internal promotion of Ros Rickaby (Chair of Geology)
 represents an intensified focus on the interface between biology, geology, and the environment.

 We have diversified our funding base since the last REF, securing the largest number of ERC
 awards in Earth System Science (PE10) of any single-site institute in Europe, and strengthening
 links with natural resource industries. Our research-to-policy approach is highlighted by Gideon
 Henderson’s appointment as DEFRA Chief Scientific Advisor (CSA). OUMNH provides
 outstanding opportunities to engage the public in our research; with 800,000 visitors annually, it
 is the most visited university science museum worldwide.

 We place great value on supporting and promoting our community through national and
 international funding bodies, editorships, and learned societies. The latter is exemplified by Alex
 Halliday’s role as Vice-President of the Royal Society. Our scientists have also received
 significant recognition across career stages, including three awards presented by Heads of
 State.

 1.1 Context and structure

 Oxford UoA7 spans two distinct sections of the University: DoES forms part of the Mathematical,
 Physical, and Life Sciences (MPLS) Division; and OUMNH sits within Oxford’s Gardens,
 Libraries, and Museums, a grouping of six internationally significant research collections. The
 DoES Head of Department (HoD) and OUMNH Director each sit on the other’s governing
 committees, ensuring strategic cohesion.

 Inspiring research leadership in our faculty and researchers at all career stages is a core tenet.
 This is built on the principles of academic freedom and independence. We encourage
 development of collaborative networks between our researchers, across Oxford departments,
 and with national/international partners from academia, industry, and the third sector. Enabling
 agility to address timely scientific problems in novel ways is a key aim of our research
 environment. While we do not have formal groups, research falls into six broad themes (Figure
 1), with many researchers active in more than one area.




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Figure 1: Primary research theme affiliation of REF-returned research staff
 (including Visiting Professors and grant-holding Emeritus Professors, not REF-returned)

   Geophysics and                 Planetary evolution and           Oceanography, climate
   geodynamics                    materials                         and palaeoenvironment
   Katz                           Ballentine (HoD)                  Bouman
   Kendall *                      Barling *^                        Henderson
   May *^                         Blundy *                          Holdship ^
   Nissen-Meyer                   Bryson *                          Johnson
   Sigloch                        Marquardt *                       Khatiwala
   Stevens *                      Nichols *                         Porcelli
                                  Wade *^                           Rickaby
                                  (Wood)                            Robinson

   Palaeobiology and evolution                 Geodesy, tectonics,           Earth resources
   DoES          OUMNH                         volcanology & hazards         Cartwright
   Anderson *$   Dunn *$                       Cassidy *$                    Foschi *$
   Benson        Murdock *$                    Hawthorne *                   (Daly)
   Cosmidis *    Pérez-de la Fuente *$         MacNiocaill                   (Idiz)
           $
   Parry *       Rahman                        Mather                        (Levell)
   Saupe *       Smith [Director]              Palin *                       (St-Onge)
   Shillito *$                                 Pyle                          (Robb)
                                               Searle
                                               Walker
                                               (Watts)
  *Recruited in REF period   $Independent Research Fellows   ^Small Research Facility Manager


 1.2 Research strategy and developments since 2014

 We provide fundamental scientific understanding of the processes that shape the Earth and our
 environment. We inform society’s influencers and policymakers and find solutions to some of the
 most pressing global challenges. This is achieved with three interdependent approaches,
 reflecting the inherently multidisciplinary nature of Earth sciences:

    •   Observations of Earth and other planets
    •   Laboratory analysis, imaging, and experiments
    •   Mathematical analysis and numerical modelling of planetary processes

 Key aspects of our research strategy include:
    •   Using recruitment or promotion of faculty to review (via faculty-wide discussion) our
        research emphasis and to identify new and emerging fields of cutting-edge research,
        and faculty with cross disciplinary interests. For example, promotion of Rickaby (to the
        Chair in Geology) represented a shift in emphasis at senior level towards the interface of
        life and the planetary system.
    •   Sustaining vibrant areas of the discipline, illustrated by the recruitment of Marquardt,
        Bryson, Nichols, and Blundy (plus Barling and Wade to lead analytical facilities) to rebuild
        our strength in planetary science.
    •   Investing in innovations in instrumentation. Examples include a Brillouin Spectroscopy
        system to probe high PT mineral properties (Marquardt), and our new Oxford Centre of
        Quantum Palaeomagnetism (Bryson, Nichols, MacNiocaill).


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •    Building and maintaining a cutting-edge analytical capability by appointing permanent
         senior independent research fellows (IRF) as facility managers (Wade, Barling, May,
         Holdship).
    •    Attracting and training excellent postgraduate research (PGR) students and post-doctoral
         researchers (PDRAs) (§2.1).
    •    Developing international connections, networks, and collaborations within academia
         and to reach out to other stakeholders (§1.4, §4.1, §4.2).

 1.2.1   Theme foci and key developments during the REF period

 i. Geophysics and geodynamics
 We seek to understand the structure and dynamics of Earth’s interior; the response of the
 lithosphere to loading; the mechanics of earthquakes; the fluid dynamics of geological materials;
 and the physical behaviour of the cryosphere. Analysis of observational data relies on
 application of rigorous mathematical techniques and high-performance computing.

 Since 2014: Appointing Kendall as Chair in Geophysics delivered on our 2014 objective to
 maintain leadership in the field (vice Woodhouse), strengthening deep Earth studies and new
 applications to resource and sustainability. Recruitment of Stevens adds new strategic capability
 in Cryosphere Geophysics. We have strengthened our computing resources by creating a
 permanent IRF post in advanced research computing (May).

 ii. Planetary evolution and materials
 Study of the chemical, isotopic, magnetic, and mineralogical behaviour of planetary materials
 enables us to make cutting-edge discoveries in the formation, structure, and evolution of Earth
 and planets.

 Since 2014: New appointments have brought expertise in igneous planetary materials (Blundy)
 and deep planetary mineralogy (Marquardt). Recruitment of Bryson and Nichols (planetary
 magnetic materials) to join MacNiocaill (tectonics) created the new Oxford Centre for Quantum
 Palaeomagnetism. The theme links strongly to Oxford Physics’ exoplanets group and has been
 further strengthened through the creation of two permanent IRF posts (Wade and Barling) to
 support cross-theme surface and isotope analysis, respectively. This theme hosted four NERC
 IRFs in-period.

 iii. Oceanography, climate and palaeoenvironment
 We address the fundamental workings of the climate system and carbon cycle. New insights are
 achieved with remote and in situ observation, analysis, and modelling of the biology, chemistry,
 and physics of Earth’s water and its record preserved in sediments. Strong networks – within
 Oxford, nationally, and internationally – contribute to solutions that mitigate the changing climate.

 Since 2014: As planned, we have strengthened links with Oxford’s leading social scientists,
 including in the Environmental Change Institute and the Smith School of Enterprise and the
 Environment, and continued to build on our links with Physics, Maths, and Zoology, and
 externally (e.g., the Met Office). Johnson has led the Oxford Climate Research Network since
 2019. This theme hosted four IRFs. Henderson retains a 20% post following appointment as
 DEFRA CSA in Sept 2019.

 iv. Palaeobiology and evolution
 We aim to understand the processes governing biotic change on long timescales, including
 major evolutionary transitions, such as the origin and early evolution of animals, and how
 biodiversity responds to environmental change. We approach this by assessing the assembly of
 Earth’s extant and extinct biodiversity, studied in a rigorous phylogenetic and mathematical
 framework.

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Since 2014: Our UoA-wide vision to grow capacity in this area has led to significant expansion of
 research in OUMNH, returning five researchers in REF2021 (cf. 2.5 in REF2014). This theme
 attracted seven externally-funded IRFs during the REF period and four-internally funded IRFs
 awarded against cross-disciplinary competition. In DoES, recruitment of Cosmidis (Geobiology)
 brings expertise at the biological/mineral interface. Appointment of Saupe strengthens research
 in life-climate interactions.

 v. Geodesy, tectonics, volcanology and related hazards
 We address the fundamental physical and chemical processes governing tectonics and
 volcanism and their impacts from planetary-scale evolution to local, regional, and global hazards
 and risk. Our research advances via techniques and applications in Earth Observation,
 laboratory experiments and analyses, field observation, data analysis, and modelling.

 Since 2014: Oxford remains a key member of COMET (Centre for Observation and Modelling of
 Earthquakes, Volcanoes, and Tectonics), providing a multi-institute interdisciplinary
 environment. We both advance the science and, as a 2014 goal, have increasing emphasis on
 providing societal advice on the impact of volcanic eruptions and earthquakes (§4.2.1). We have
 sustained strength with the recruitment of Hawthorne and Palin and one NERC IRF (Cassidy).

 vi. Earth Resources
 The occurrence of resources and their environmentally-secure development forms the focus of
 this grouping. Closely aligned topics are the science challenges in water resource security,
 geological CO2 sequestration, and nuclear waste disposal.

 Since 2014: Key aims were to expand industry links and to grow work on CO2 sequestration. We
 have increased the number of industry Visiting Professors from two to five (§3.1), and doubled
 the number of major industry research contracts (§4.2.3). Contracts with the US Geological
 Survey (USGS) and the Canadian Nuclear Waste Management Authority open up new
 opportunities to apply our science to groundwater security and nuclear waste disposal.

 1.2.2   Future objectives

    •    Climate change and its mitigation is, and will remain, one of the greatest challenges
         for our society this century. We will continue to lead the Oxford Climate Research
         Network (Johnson) and advance our understanding of the underpinning processes
         important for climate and mitigation of impacts. Our direction of travel is shown in work
         funded by the Oxford Martin School, which in turn led to a partnership (Kendall, Rickaby)
         in a University-wide strategic programme, Oxford Net Zero, to tackle the urgent zero
         emissions challenge.

    •    Cryosphere Geophysics is an environmentally-critical and timely field of study. Recent
         appointments (Kendall, Stevens) join Katz, and we will use this newly-established critical
         mass to build strategic links with the DoES Climate theme and with complementary
         groups in Oxford Physics, Maths, and Geography.

    •    Our investment in geobiology (Cosmidis) builds on new (Saupe) and existing expertise
         in palaeobiology, and promotion of Rickaby to Chair of Geology. A new building for the
         Department of Zoology (under construction) includes space designated for cross-
         disciplinary activity and represents a strategic opportunity to build on our already strong
         research links with biological sciences. This new dimension will advance knowledge of
         life–Earth interactions and links with biomaterials and climate mitigation groups.

    •    Planetary Sciences and exoplanet research is a growing strength in Oxford (e.g., the in-
         period appointment by Physics of Pierrehumbert as Halley Professor) and we continue to
         explore opportunities for a cross-disciplinary PhD programme. Within Geodesy,
         tectonics and volcanology and Geophysics, we have programmes developing our
                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        understanding of processes operating on other planets. We have rebuilt strength in
        Planetary sciences (Bryson, Marquardt, Nichols). We will exploit our leadership in
        microanalytical techniques and investment in the Oxford Centre for Quantum
        Palaeomagnetism to develop cross-over applications (e.g., Fe isotopes) between
        planetary science, tectonics, microgeobiology, materials science, and medicine.

    •   Responsible use of Earth resources is a defining societal challenge. We will capitalise
        on the expertise of, and recruit new, Visiting Professors; and apply curiosity-driven
        research to challenges in the resource industry and third sector. For example, application
        of new paradigms in our understanding of crustal magmatism enables novel ways of
        recovering metals from volcanic systems (Blundy). We will continue expansion into the
        new sectors of water resource and anthropogenic waste disposal established in the last
        REF period (Ballentine). New appointments in Geophysics (Kendall) and Tectonics
        (Palin) further extend our capability in resource and sustainability.

 1.3 Impact Strategy

 Our strategy for realising impact from our research has four strands:
    •   Applying our research to improve policy: We engage with national governments and
        international bodies. We leverage our leadership of, or participation in, existing internal or
        national networks and create key routes to impact for our work across climate, natural
        hazards, defence, and sustainable resource use. This approach has: provided key
        science-to-policy stepping-stones leading to two of our submitted impact case studies;
        positioned Henderson to step into the DEFRA CSA role; and supported policy-making
        bodies in a further eight examples of wider impact (§4.2.1).

    •   Enhancing the socio-economic benefit of research through Public Engagement
        with Research (PER): Engagement of the public with contemporary Earth sciences
        research is core to our ethos, with Pyle appointed as MPLS PER champion, and
        enhanced through the expertise and extensive visitor base of OUMNH. The Museum has
        held three interdisciplinary Earth sciences exhibitions since 2014: one (First Animals)
        forms an impact case study. Other activities include a major Bodleian Library exhibition
        (Volcanoes, Pyle), a Royal Society Summer Exhibition (Rickaby), participation in regional
        science festivals (16 in-period), short films, mobile exhibitions, and online media (§4.2.2).

    •   Developing effective, long-term engagement with industry and third sector
        partners: We have expanded our industry Visiting Professor scheme and doubled the
        number of active industry partners with 13 major research contracts worth nearly £4m
        (§4.2.3). We have established a strategic collaborative partnership with the UK Oil and
        Gas Onshore Library – Beneath Britain – to host the entire UK onshore reflection seismic
        archive and widen use of these data by UK universities: 18 projects have been supported
        since its foundation in 2018.

    •   Promoting commercialisation of research outcomes: Oxford University Innovation
        (OUI) supported ten projects registering new intellectual property from the UoA (from
        new seismic techniques for oil and gas discovery to advances in analytical techniques)
        and filed six patents. We increased consultancy activity, with 11 personal and ten
        department contracts (including advising a start-up company in Tanzania (Ballentine),
        which announced the discovery of a major helium resource province in 2016). We
        secured £170k of pump-priming support for a technology spin-out company.

 Relationship to case studies: Two (Henderson, England) illustrate our work in science-to-
 policy; one (Rahman) describes public engagement impacts through a major OUMNH
 exhibition; and one (Cartwright) the commercialisation of research through our long-term
 engagement with industry and third sector partners.

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 1.4 Interdisciplinarity and International Research

 Earth sciences is an inherently interdisciplinary field. Our researchers lead or participate in
 Oxford-wide networks in Climate, Energy, Biodiversity, and Water; and in interdisciplinary events
 and programmes run by the Oxford Martin School (e.g., ‘Climate Change and our Oceans’,
 jointly organised with Physics). Most of our major grants (e.g., ERC, NERC ‘Geotraces’, NERC
 ‘Volatiles’) involve international partners: 81 of our submitted 102 outputs include at least one
 non-UK co-author (see also §4.1, §4.2).

 1.5 Open research

 We engage with University and national initiatives to promote open scholarship and research.
 Our librarians (§3.2.4) support researchers to ensure compliance with institutional Open Access
 policy. An e-Newsletter includes a monthly list of all publications deposited into the Oxford
 Research Archive. Data generated comply with the data policy of their funder, e.g., NERC data
 repository. All numerical ocean and climate model data generated are submitted to nationally
 managed, accessible archives (CEDAS). Rock samples are catalogued and added to the
 OUMNH searchable collection. Open, digitised OUMNH and seismic research collections are
 detailed in §3.2.4; and examples of open-source software used in national facilities in §3.3.

 1.6 Research integrity

 Researchers adhere to the University’s Academic Integrity in Research: Code of Practice and
 Procedure and research policies. Research Integrity is embedded within the induction
 programme for all new researchers, also including plagiarism, data security, and data storage.
 We encourage participation in the MPLS Division’s course on Research Integrity, which covers
 good practice in research, how University researchers can meet their responsibilities, and the
 key principles and practices of good research conduct.

 2. People

 2.1 Staff

 The DoES research community comprises 35.95 FTE academics (Prof or Associate Prof (AP))
 and independent Category A researchers submitted to the REF, as well as 41 PDRAs, 60 PGR
 students, five Visiting Professors, and two active Emeritus Professors (holding major grants).
 These are supported by 27.1 FTE administrative and technical support staff. OUMNH is
 submitting its Director and four IRFs to this UoA. During the period, DoES and OUMNH hosted a
 total of 17 IRFs, of whom 13 were externally funded.

 We seek to attract the best researchers at all career stages, support their scientific
 development, develop their international profile, and enable them to lead at the frontiers of their
 discipline; both here and by progressing to prestigious roles elsewhere. Early-career researchers
 (ECR) are a valued component of our research effort: 27% of our submitted outputs have a PGR
 student or PDRA as lead author. Examples of success since 2014 include: recruitment of
 Blundy, who brought his Royal Society Professorship to Oxford; promotion of Rickaby, against
 international competition, to the Chair of Geology (the first woman to hold the post); and the
 moves of Halliday to become Director of the Earth Institute at Columbia, and Tosca to
 Cambridge as Chair of Mineralogy.

 2.1.1   Recruitment

 The DoES has seen a significant change in the demographics of its permanent academic staff,
 appointing 12 new Profs/APs and four permanent research fellows. Six of these appointments
 were from outside the UK (five from the US, one from Germany). This balanced 12.8 faculty who
 left in-period, mostly due to retirement (nine). People re-investment has focussed on junior
                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 faculty with 10/12 appointed at AP level. The total number of DoES researchers – including
 permanent research fellows, IRFs, and Visiting Profs – increased over the period from 42 to 50.

 All academic posts are recruited by international open competition, with broadly-defined
 advertising criteria to attract a wide pool of high-quality applicants. Appointment strategy is
 discussed by the whole faculty.

 Diversity plays a major role in the search process: we use faculty discussion and targeted
 solicitations to encourage strong and diverse fields; all appointment panel members receive
 unconscious bias training; panel gender balance is maximized; and ‘stop and review’ is triggered
 in the case of a single-gender shortlist, in line with University policy. This strategy has improved
 the gender balance amongst DoES Profs/APs: 37% are female (50% in our AP body),
 compared to 21% (30% APs) in 2014 (Figure 2). At 7% in our Prof/AP body, we recognise the
 need to do more in terms of BAME representation (§2.3).

 We have invested £1.45m since 2014 in start-up packages for new DoES faculty in the form of
 laboratory/field instrumentation and computing needs. We have used internal sources to match-
 fund two Leverhulme Trust Fellows in OUMNH; and to provide small grant support to IRFs (four
 awards in period - £6k to £25k).

    Figure 2: DoES staff breakdown by gender
                           0.0   2.0      4.0          6.0          8.0      10.0         12.0       14.0   16.0

                    2014                                13.0                                         2.0              male
    Professors
                                                                                                                      female
                    2020                        10.2                                   3.0



                           0.0   2.0      4.0          6.0          8.0      10.0          12.0      14.0   16.0

                    2014                       9.0                                  4.0
   Associate
   Professors       2020                7.0                                      7.0


                           0.0                 10.0                       20.0                       30.0              40.0           50.0

                    2014                                     30.0                                              12.0
    Researchers *
                    2020                                              37.0                                                     13.0


                        * Headcount (not FTE); includes PDRAs, IRFs, and Visiting Professors
                           0.0         6.0              12.0                 18.0                 24.0       30.0

                    2014               11.7                                         17.4
    Support staff
                    2020                13.0                                        14.1




 PDRAs and IRFs are recruited internationally. 61% come from abroad, 34% are female. We
 mentor all fellowship applications, hold an open information day, and offer proposal reviews and
 practice interviews.

 We have fully adopted the principles of the Concordat to support the career development of
 researchers and implement these through its Code of Practice. This includes formal inductions
 and welcome sessions run by the University. A tailored welcome pack and induction is provided
 for all staff on appointment. Salaries meet equal pay requirements and Fixed-Term Employees
                                                                                                                                      Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Regulations. Since 2017, the University has been an accredited Living Wage foundation
 employer.

 2.1.2   Career development

 Faculty: All early-career faculty have reduced teaching and administration loads during their first
 three years. Each is assigned a senior faculty mentor for their five-year probation period (an
 additional year’s probation has been offered to everyone impacted by COVID-19). Reviews, after
 two years and at end of probation, are conducted in accordance with the University Code of
 Practice for the Employment and Career Development of Research Staff. This includes reports
 on teaching, research, and service, and provides formal supportive feedback to the individual.
 No faculty have failed probation in the last three REF periods.

 Faculty are offered an annual appraisal with the HoD to discuss career growth, aspirations,
 recognition, and promotion (§2.1.4). The HoD maintains an overview of faculty workload with the
 Associate Head of Department (AHoD) (Teaching) to balance teaching (including field teaching,
 examining and tutorial load) and service (administration and management in the department and
 University).

 PDRAs and IRFs: On appointment, a choice of mentors is offered to IRFs and PDRAs, in the
 case of PDRAs to complement the support they get from their PI. We have an established
 system of reviews for all fixed-term research staff at the mid-point and end of their one-year
 probation period.

 Termly meetings between the PDRA/IRF body and the AHoD (Research) allow concerns and
 suggestions for improving department processes and collegiality to be raised. One exemplar
 outcome is our highly-valued annual fellowship day for PhDs, PDRAs, and IRFs which includes
 presentations from IRFs and faculty to highlight opportunities and best practice in preparing for
 academic job applications and interviews.

 Of known (62 of 74) PDRA/IRF destinations, 41% went on to a further PDRA or IRF post, 28% to
 a faculty position, and 31% to industry or the third sector.

 2.1.3   Research and Impact Leave

 Faculty sabbatical leave for career development accrues at one term’s leave for every six of
 qualifying service. All faculty support colleagues to take this leave by covering their duties.
 Research activities undertaken include paper, book and grant writing, extended fieldwork,
 course development, and visits to other institutes. Impact activities include design of exhibits
 (e.g., Pyle, Volcanoes exhibition, 2017), public lectures and other public engagement activities,
 as well as report writing for NGOs or other organisations (e.g., Henderson, Royal Society
 Report, Future ocean resources, metal-rich minerals and genetics). 13 faculty took sabbaticals
 in-period, totalling 27 terms of leave.

 2.1.4   Reward, recognition, and promotion

 An annual Recognition of Distinction exercise enables Associate Professors to apply for full
 professorial title (and a small pay increment), informed by international peer review. Six faculty
 (four male, two female) were awarded title in-period. Academic salary progression is via the
 Professorial Merit Pay scheme, every two years. The HoD actively encourages those who fit the
 promotion or salary progression criteria to apply, especially amongst under-represented groups.
 Out-of-round recognition can occur through retention awards (pay and/or title enhancement),
 and stipends for major leadership roles. 17 awards across all categories were made in-period.

 Recognition of excellence for support staff is either through promotion/regrading (one promotion
 to an IRF was awarded in-period) or through the award of AP or Professor title to permanent
                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 IRFs who engage in teaching. The latter offers a clear career progression route for IRFs who
 lead our research facilities: one Associate Professor title was awarded in-period.

 2.2 Research Students

 2.2.1   Recruitment and funding

 We admitted an average of 16.7 PhD students per year, with ~2/3 recruited via competitively-
 awarded cohort-based programmes funded by NERC. Since 2014, the main route has been the
 NERC-Oxford DTP in Environmental Research (PI: Pyle, UoA7) but also includes the Oil and
 Gas CDT led by Heriot Watt. Within the Oxford DTP, we accept students from all three ‘streams’
 – ‘Biodiversity, ecology, and evolutionary processes’; ‘Physical climate system’; ‘Dynamic Earth,
 surface processes, and natural hazards’ – further illustrating the interdisciplinary nature of our
 research. Other students are funded by STFC, ERC, industry, foreign national government
 grants, one full international scholarship each year from Oxford’s flagship Clarendon Fund, and
 two annual 50% college scholarships. The ratio of applications to places averaged 3.3 to 1.

 2.2.2   Training, support, and mentoring mechanisms

 All PhD students have a minimum of two Oxford-based supervisors to provide a safety net. The
 Division and University offer an extensive range of training enrichment, including in advanced
 presentation skills, connecting with industry, scientific writing, time management, communication
 of research, and public engagement. The focus of the NERC-Oxford DTP on cohort-led learning
 in Year 1 engenders an immediate network of peers, and exposure to faculty across the MPLS
 and Social Sciences Divisions for support and collaboration (nine departments participate); as
 well as opportunities to engage with 22 external partners (including the Met Office, National
 Oceanography Centre, and Natural History Museum, London).

 PhD students and supervisors each provide progress reports four times annually. Reports that
 flag issues (or null returns) are brought to the attention of the Director of Graduate Studies for
 follow-up.

 All PhD students are members of a college and are assigned a college academic for pastoral
 support to provide an additional contact point in case of physical, mental, or personal issues.
 Students with a disability, long-term physical or mental health condition, or a specific learning
 difficulty have access to the University Disability Advisory Service, a team of specialist advisors
 trained to facilitate study. We have faculty and support staff trained in mental health first aid, and
 in harassment, signposted in the student’s handbook and advertised via posters throughout the
 department.

 2.2.3   PhD Student Progression, Completion, and Destinations

 Student progression occurs in two stages before completion: within their first four terms and after
 seven terms. Progression at each stage requires a report, presentation (in a student-led two day
 mini-conference open to all researchers), and an interview with the Director/Deputy Director of
 Graduate Studies and a faculty member in a related field.

 In-period, 117 PhD students have been based in and graduated from the DoES (equating to
 99.59 FTE once adjusted to reflect interdisciplinary co-supervision across UoAs). PhD students
 have access to a wide range of DoES, OUMNH, University, MPLS Division, and DTP workshops
 and career support. 76%, 89% and 91% of DoES students submitted their thesis within 49, 60
 and 72 months respectively and were awarded a PhD. Two students received an MSc, one
 sadly died, and the remainder withdrew.

 Destinations: 65% of PhD graduates took up a PDRA/IRF position, 8% went on to further study
 (e.g., PGCE training), and 27% into graduate employment (including the insurance industry; as
                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 data scientists; international resource companies; and the Civil Service). 55% of the PDRA posts
 (i.e. 37.5% of graduates) were abroad, predominantly at top North American institutes (e.g.,
 Carnegie, Columbia, Princeton, Smithsonian, Toronto), but notably also across Europe and
 Japan.

 2.3 Equality and Diversity

 We believe that a fair, inclusive, and diverse department environment underpins all our other
 goals. We recognise that we still have work to do in this area, especially in terms of BAME
 representation, and encourage a culture of proactive discussion to identify actions that widen
 participation through both recruitment and retention.

 The Workplace and Equality Committee (WEC) is an integral part of the DoES structure.
 Meeting termly, and with representation from all parts of the community, the WEC implements
 actions to build and support diversity within the workplace. A variety of formal and ad hoc staff
 and student groups feed into the WEC including an annual online staff survey and reports from
 moderated focus groups with support staff, PhD, and PDRA/IRF bodies.

 DoES holds an Athena SWAN Bronze award (2016); OUMNH is applying in April 2021.
 Improvement in the DoES faculty gender balance has been detailed (§2.1.1). Similar efforts
 have been made to tackle the gender gap amongst our student body, and we now have a 50:50
 male:female balance in both our undergraduate (UG) and PGR populations.

 We have a Stonewall Ally on the staff and consult with LGBTQ+ representatives to ensure any
 issues are identified and rectified, and support provided where needed. Allies and Harassment
 advisers are fully trained and signposted on posters, in staff handbooks, e-bulletins, and online.

 We are working to tackle BAME under-representation in Earth Sciences found at all levels from
 undergraduate to professor. Supported by our Communications and Outreach Officer (1FTE),
 we have focussed UG recruitment since 2018 on geographical locations with broader ethnic
 diversity and helped to pilot the Oxford UNIQ residential summer school to introduce students
 from non-traditional backgrounds to higher education. UG intake in both 2019 and 2020 was
 20% BAME, up from <10% in previous years.

 An internal DoES graduate student-led report and faculty reply prompted an Oxford-organised
 national discussion of BAME representation within the discipline (June 2020). The online panel
 included Oxford students and faculty as well as senior representatives from the Geological and
 Royal Astronomical Societies. The event attracted 225 participants from 39 UK and 17
 international institutes. Recommendations from this process have informed UK Head of Earth
 Sciences and Geological Society London discussions to address diversity within UK Earth
 sciences.

 2.3.1   Flexible working

 Meetings and seminars are scheduled in core hours to allow for family commitments. Childcare
 responsibilities are surveyed and proactively taken into consideration when scheduling teaching
 hours. Flexible working is offered to all staff when possible, exemplified pre-COVID by some
 staff working from home part of the week to minimise commuting and others shifting temporarily
 to part-time working to balance domestic responsibilities.

 2.3.2   Support for carers, returning staff, and staff with protected characteristics

 Carers are encouraged to disclose their responsibilities, in confidence, to managers or other
 colleagues. Support to enable a positive work-life balance includes flexible working (§2.3.1), and
 additional time off to deal with domestic emergencies. There is a short-term carers’ leave
 scheme, options to take a career break of up to 12 months, and access to emergency back-up
                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 childcare and adult care. A Returning Carer’s Fund offers small grants to support staff returning
 to research, or who require support to maintain their research group during a period of leave. In-
 period, 16 researchers took paternity leave, six maternity leave, and three shared parental leave.

 The University Disability Advisory Service assists in assessing need and identifying reasonable
 workplace adjustments (e.g., standing desks for several individuals, a quieter environment for an
 individual with Autism Spectrum Disorder); and, together with the University Occupational Health
 Service, provides additional support and advice for students/staff with mental ill-health. Mental
 health workshops are a termly event. DoES has trained Mental Health First Aiders on the staff.

 2.3.3   Staff and student wellbeing

 Our relatively small size makes for an informal, friendly community: people know and support
 each other, professionally and socially; and visitors often comment favourably on an
 environment that is seen as inclusive and welcoming.

 DoES runs a variety of events to foster the sense of community and to promote network building
 across groups and career stages. These include daily coffee breaks in the Researchers
 Common Room, and a weekly ‘Brown Bag Lunch’ with discussion of emerging research topics.
 Weekly social gatherings in the common room and an annual Christmas party are run by the
 postgraduate students; and a Summer BBQ brings all staff together. We hold regular discussion
 sessions for PDRAs, as well as periodic focus groups and surveys.

 During the COVID-19 pandemic, we have sought to maintain a regular series of online events
 and bulletins, from coffee mornings to HoD briefings, and twice-weekly Yoga classes to maintain
 morale and cohesion amongst our community. A communications group, with members from
 across DoES, co-ordinates regular faculty ‘check-ins’ with all staff and graduate students, with
 follow-up by senior faculty or HR when needed.

 2.3.4   E&D and the REF submission

 In line with the University Code of Practice, quality was the primary selection criterion for
 outputs. We held a workshop (2019) to train faculty and IRFs across DoES and OUMNH to
 promote reviewer consistency. Outputs nominated by eligible staff were reviewed internally twice
 (and again if the two reviews differed significantly); an external moderator calibrated a subset of
 outputs. We monitored the gender balance of our Outputs submission after internal ranking.
 From a Category A staff population split 72% male / 28% female, the submitted outputs are
 attributed 63% male / 37% female.

 3. Income, infrastructure, and facilities

 3.1 Funding strategy and profile

 NERC and the hydrocarbon/extractive industries were our main UK government and industrial
 funding sources in the last REF. With NERC responsive mode funding decreasing in real terms,
 key objectives in this REF period have been to widen our funding base (Figure 3) and to
 enhance proposal competitiveness.

 In-period, over 44 sponsors have contributed £43.5m research income. These include four UKRI
 councils (EPSRC, BBSRC, STFC, NERC), the ERC, industry (e.g., Petrobras, Schlumberger,
 Shell, Exxon-Mobil, Total, Statoil, BHP Billington), government (e.g., DfID, BEIS, DECC) and
 third sector (e.g., USGS, Canadian Nuclear Waste Management Organisation, British Geological
 Survey, NATO).



                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Part of our strategy has been hosting Visiting Professors (a formal title awarded by the
 University) who are leaders from the hydrocarbon (Daly, Levell, Idiz) and mineral (Robb) sectors,
 and the Canadian National Geological Survey (St-Onge). They advise on our external-facing
 research strategy, and contribute to research proposals, teaching and supervision of UG and
 PGR student research projects, and career advice.

 Our strategy has been successful: since 2014, the number of significant research contracts
 (>£100k) with industry or the third sector has increased to 13. Consequently, industry funding
 represented 28% of external grant income during the period compared to 21% in REF2014. The
 other two principal funding sources were EU Government (24%, up from 16%) and decreasing
 reliance on UKRI (40%, down from 57%).

         Figure 3           Comparison of funding sources, REF2021 vs REF2014 1


          REF 2014        16%                21%                                    57%                   6%




          REF 2021              24%                       28%                             40%             8%


                     0%                20%                  40%               60%                80%           100%

                                 EU govt     Industry & public sector   UK Research Councils    Charity




 3.1.1   Research funding, research outputs, and impact

 In-period, we have been awarded 75 external grants of between £100k and £1.8m in value, as
 well as many smaller awards. Of particular note, since 2014 Oxford won seven ERC grants from
 PE10 (Earth Systems Sciences), bringing the total to date to 15, the highest number of PE10
 awards to any single-site institute in Europe. Another ERC Starting Grant Award was awarded
 from LS8 (Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology).

 Awards supported >1,900 publications across our themes, many in leading subject journals. 149
 were in the Nature/Science/PNAS publication groups, alone attracting >4,300 citations.

 Selected ERC awards and exemplar outputs illustrate how external funding enables high-
 quality training and research (see §4.1 and §4.2 for impacts from grants).

     •   GRACE: Starting Grant (2008-15, Rickaby). Training three PDRAs, a major output
         shows the specificity of the enzyme RuBisCO, the most abundant enzyme on Earth
         catalyzing the fixation of CO2, provides a potential pathway to genetically engineer more
         efficient RuBisCOs. (REF output: Poudel et al., 2020).
     •   NOBLE: Advanced Grant (2011-17, Ballentine). Supporting three PDRAs, research
         identified and quantified halogen recycling into the terrestrial mantle, re-set the chondritic
         reference database for halogens, and shows wet accretion to be a viable mechanism to
         account for the distribution of terrestrial halogens. (Two REF outputs: Chavrit et al., 2016;
         Clay et al., 2017).
     •   ISMAGIC: Starting Grant (2012-17, Katz). Training one PhD student, two PDRAs, and
         collaborating with Langmuir and Huybers (Harvard) and Hirschmann (Minnesota). Three
         REF outputs (Crowley et al., 2014; Cerpa et al., 2019; Keller et al., 2017) show that



1 REF 2021 figures exclude a £5.4m deferred capital accounting adjustment (from UK charities) relating to

the DoES building, completed in 2010.
                                                                                                                      Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

         fluctuations in sea level drive variations in mid-ocean ridge magmatism and indicate that
         mantle carbon promotes channelised melt transport at mid-ocean ridges.
    •    DEEPTIME: Starting Grant (2015-21, Sigloch). Training two PhD students, two PDRAs
         and engaging three international partner institutes. 2 REF outputs (Hoseini et al., 2020;
         Sigloch et al., 2017) show that the deformation and sinking of subducted lithosphere
         follows more systematic patterns than commonly perceived in geodynamics and that the
         complexities of mantle processes are dominated by shallow paleo-trench geometries.
    •    TEMPO: ERC Starting Grant (2016-21, Benson). Two REF outputs (Benson et al.,
         2014a, 2014b) provided the foundation for this grant which has to date trained seven
         PDRAs and established major patterns of dinosaur and bird evolution. This includes body
         sizes, multiple transitions to quadrupedality in sauropodomorphs, and the evolution of
         vision and hearing modalities and nocturnality in theropods and birds.
    •    APPELS: Consolidator Grant (2016-21, Rickaby). Training one PhD and three PDRAs,
         this produced two REF outputs (Lu et al., 2018; Shafiee et al., 2019). The latter shows
         that the marine ammonia oxidising archaea (AOA), organisms that catalyse the nitrogen
         resource availability for eukaryotes, have some of the highest Fe requirements of all
         marine plankton such that AOA growth in surface waters may be Fe limited.

 3.1.2   Research Facilitation, Finance Support and Communication

 In DoES, pre-award support is provided by the Research Committee and a full-time Research
 Facilitator (1 FTE). An internal peer review process is arranged for applications of all types and
 sizes, including feedback from faculty, and practice proposal presentations and interviews. This
 approach has contributed directly to the ERC funding success described above. The DoES
 finance team (4.7 FTE) provides project management, purchasing, and accounting support;
 whilst a Communications and Outreach Officer ensures high-profile research is promoted
 through print and online channels. Visiting Professors and other networks across Oxford, and
 externally, help to promote research impact. Links with alumni, many in industry, are maintained
 via social media, on-site events, and an annual magazine outlining our key research news.

 In OUMNH, the Research & Impact team (2 FTE) manages grant applications to, and awards
 from, research councils and trusts. 12.6 FTE public engagement staff manage research
 communication.

 3.2 Facilities

 The DoES occupies a purpose-designed building opened in 2010, close to the Grade I listed
 OUMNH built in 1860. UoA7 researchers also make use of analytical facilities (including AMS,
 XRD, BET, and TEM) in adjacent departments: Physics, the School of Geography and
 Environment, and the Research Laboratory for Archaeology & the History of Art (RLAHA). The
 latter houses one of two NERC 14C dating facilities and, with a common interest in improving
 chronology, provides a key partnership for DoES (e.g., climate group: Henderson, Rickaby).

 A suite of nine small research facilities (SRFs), run by technicians or scientists on permanent
 contracts (9.0 FTE), underpins and supports research across the UoA. The SRFs are
 complemented by a range of specialist labs run by individual academics or groups of academics.

 3.2.1   Small Research Facilities (SRFs)

 SRFs provide continuity of specialist knowledge, training to students and staff at all levels, and
 analytical technique development. Our submitted Category A staff include four SRF managers
 who have been appointed at (or promoted to) IRF level and have their own independent
 research programmes (Barling, May, Wade, Holdship).


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Recognising the value of the SRF model, we have increased the number of SRFs from six to
 nine during the REF period:
    •    (NEW) Research Computing SRF (software sustainability and best practice
         development, HPC use)
    •    (NEW) Clean Chemistry Suite
    •    (NEW) Mass Spectrometry Suite (MC-ICPMS and TIMS)
    •    Trace Element Analysis
    •    Stable Isotope Analysis
    •    SEM and Electron Probe (Surface Microanalysis)
    •    Geofacilities (optical microscopy, rock cutting/crushing, thin sections)
    •    Organismal imaging (multi-plane focus-stacking micrography, photomicrography and
         tomography workstations)
    •    Workshop (High precision materials machining)

 The Clean Chemistry and Mass Spectrometry (MS) Suites were created by consolidating
 individual faculty clean labs and MS equipment into a shared SRF provision. This model has
 improved access, flexibility, and funding continuity to maintain the technical expertise in these
 areas. Similarly, research support for programming and computational hardware in the
 department had previously been kept within different faculty groups in geophysics; consolidation
 as an SRF now facilitates shared access for our researchers.

 Prioritization of access and oversight of the SRFs is undertaken by the Department’s Research
 Committee, chaired by AHoD (Research). An SRF manager sub-committee provides a forum to
 feed into the Research Committee, identify common operational issues, and develop strategic
 plans for future provision. Unfunded research staff and students can apply for SRF access
 through the Research Committee to complete research outputs or pump-prime grant proposals.

 Continued investment ensures that our SRFs provide the support required for research. For
 example, the Electron Microprobe was procured in-period through a NERC capital grant (£500k
 plus £83k internal funds). The DoES has recently invested in a CNC lathe, Vertical Milling
 Machine, and CAD capabilities, enabling a step-change in, for example, design and construction
 of precision high-pressure in-vacuum crushing equipment installed in the Noble Gas Isotope
 Laboratory. The analytical SRFs are used routinely by other cognate disciplines (Materials,
 Geography, RLAHA) and external users to augment funds raised by internal SRF charges. For
 example, our workshop SRF has constructed seven high-pressure piston cylinders for materials
 research at institutes around the world (£420k total turnover).

 3.2.2   Faculty-run laboratories

 Faculty labs are managed by individuals or by groups of faculty. All faculty have access to
 secure laboratory bench-top analytical space, as needed. Some have extensively equipped
 laboratory space, fully funded by their research programmes and engaging other faculty through
 collaborative effort:
    •    (NEW) Centre for Quantum Palaeomagnetism (MacNiocaill, Bryson, Nichols) is
         centered on a dual steel-shielded magnetic field-free room containing a 2G
         magnetometer with extensive demagnetization and related equipment. Orders have been
         placed in this REF period for an upgrade to include a new generation of quantum
         diamond microscope to support the recent recruitment of Bryson and Nichols.
    •    (NEW) In 2020, DoES established new laboratory space for geophysics field
         equipment testing, calibration, and maintenance (Kendall, Stevens).

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •    (NEW) Noble Gas Isotope Laboratory (Ballentine), a state-of-the-art isotope laboratory
         commissioned in this REF period containing four static sector gas mass spectrometers,
         peripheral equipment and supported by 1.0 FTE laboratory manager fully funded through
         research income.
    •    (NEW) Experimental sedimentary geochemistry laboratory, including XRD and
         supported by 0.5 FTE lab manager; originally for Tosca, and currently being extended to
         include biogeochemistry (Cosmidis).
    •    Experimental Petrology Laboratory (established by Wood; oversight now transferred
         to Blundy) investigates high-pressure mineralogy with two piston-cylinders and a multi-
         anvil apparatus for high-pressure experiments, together with tube furnaces and related
         analytical facilities.
    •    The Shell Geoscience Laboratory (Cartwright) for subsurface geological interpretation
         of petrophysical and geophysical data. This consists of six high-specification seismic
         interpretation workstations (operating Schlumberger’s Geoframe and Petrel Software
         (~US$20m), and IHS’s Kingdom software), two RAID arrays providing 24Tb of storage,
         and two servers with 32Gb of RAM.
    •    Other laboratory space includes a marine bio-culturing lab (Rickaby, Henderson),
         palaeo-3D imaging/visualization lab (Saupe, Benson, Smith), volcanology lab
         (Mather, Pyle), and sedimentary geochemistry analysis (Robinson, Mather).

 3.2.3   Computing

 IT provision in DoES is overseen by the IT Committee. Our researchers have access to high-
 quality computing infrastructure locally (supported by two full-time computer officers) and at
 University level. Since 2014, DoES has replaced seven discrete servers and multiple disc
 systems with three physical servers and two-disc systems and an off-site back-up repository to
 allow for disaster recovery and business continuity (£65k) and extensive switch/network
 upgrades (£80k).

 Our researchers make extensive use of the central Oxford Advanced Research Computing
 (ARC) facilities, which host and support scientific computing platforms. Katz chaired the ARC
 Executive Committee (2013-16). The Research Computing SRF manager supports researchers
 to make optimal use of time on ARC.

 Palaeobiology is also supported by high-performance computing facilities for 3D visualisation,
 statistical analysis, and modelling; and complemented by the proximity of the OUMNH world-
 class research collections.

 3.2.4   Collections and library provision

 OUMNH houses a collection of 7 million geological and zoological specimens, designated by
 Arts Council England as of national and international importance for research and engagement.
 The collections are fully accessible for research by UoA members and the international research
 community through the newly updated Collections Online portal. They are supported by 22.9
 FTE specialist staff (at July 2020) and over 6,000 specimens are loaned globally each year for
 research. Museum facilities also comprise a palaeontological preparation laboratory and
 conservation suite, plus imaging facilities that include SEM and 3D laser scanning.

 Both DoES and OUMNH house libraries that are available to members of the UoA (supported by
 1.62 FTE librarians) and which contain the main Earth science journals, and provide important
 historical collections, a designated archive, maps, and other special publications. Oxford invests
 ~£100k/yr on journals and e-resources in Earth sciences, through the Radcliffe Science Library.
 Almost all journals relevant to our research are now available by electronic subscription. We host
 Beneath Britain, the largest archive of 3D seismic data in academia (see §1.3).
                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3.3 Use of collaborative or national facilities

 We use UK national and international facilities extensively across all research themes. Below we
 detail exemplar activities and outcomes of peer reviewed or competitively funded access:

 Synchrotron Radiation Light Sources:
 Researchers used the UK Diamond Light Source to calibrate volcanic Br degassing (Pyle);
 visualise key early fossils and fish bone microstructures (Benson); image some of the oldest
 fossil green algae and Burgess shale fossils to show the importance of clays to fossilisation
 (Anderson); and used S-near-edge XANES measurements of experimental glasses to underpin
 our understanding of sulphur speciation and solubility in silicate melts (Wood). The BESSY
 synchrotron, Berlin, and ALS synchrotron, Berkeley, were used to determine the relationship
 between meteorite cooling, core crystallisation and magnetic field generation, developing the
 thermal and structural history of the first planetary bodies in our solar system (Bryson). Use of
 the German Synchrotron Radiation Facility DESY enabled four PhD students to develop an
 atomistic understanding of the role of water in controlling elastic properties in high-pressure
 MgFe-silicates at deep planetary pressures (Marquardt). The Canadian Light Source,
 Saskatoon, and Stanford Synchrotron Radiation Light Source showed inorganic formation
 mechanisms of carbon/sulphur microstructures resembling microbial structures being used as
 biosignatures, winning a Canadian Light Source award for this work (Cosmidis). The ISIS
 Neutron & Muon Source has shown how neutron tomography can resolve internal structures in
 fossils that are invisible to X-ray-based imaging (Rahman).
 Supercomputing:
 US NSF-funded Yellowstone and Cheyenne supercomputers and Swiss National
 Supercomputing Centre enabled Khatiwala to run simulations using his 3D model of ocean
 circulation and biogeochemistry to identify key processes controlling oceanic zinc distribution;
 revise global carbon fluxes from oceanic riverine and carbon transport; and build a global
 reconstruction of historical ocean heat storage and transport. Archer (NERC supercomputer)
 has been used to develop a novel numerical method (AxiSEM3D) that simulates global seismic
 wave propagation in realistic aspherical 3D earth models. This underpins 11 Oxford papers as
 well as community users through an open-source interface (Nissen-Meyer).
 Research Ships:
 The RRS Discovery (NOC) was used to retrieve ocean bottom seismometers and
 magnetometers which produced observational evidence for a reverse rupture earthquake
 mechanism, predicted theoretically but never observed before (Kendall). The RRS James Clark
 Ross (NERC) and UiT Research Vessel FF Helmer Hansen were employed over four cruises
 to quantify bio-optical models that quantitatively link glider and satellite observations – used to
 track the increasing dominance of Phaeocystis in the Barents Sea, a marine phytoplankton that
 can function at a wide range of temperatures and salinities (Bouman, §4.2.1).
 National instrument pools:
 Polar GNSS receivers (US NSF Geodetic Instrument Pool) on the Greenland Ice Sheet, Ross
 Ice Shelf and George VI Ice Shelf have identified stress coupling between neighbouring
 supraglacial lakes during rapid drainage (Stevens). Reftek data loggers and seismometers
 (NERC Geophysical Equipment Pool) in the Antarctic Rutford Ice Stream have generated new
 seismic icequake datasets, with papers now in review (Kendall).
 Other Facility Use:
 The NERC Ion probe in Edinburgh was used by Pyle, Mather, Cassidy, and Wood to support
 four PDRAs and three PhD student projects. One outcome showed for the first time the effect of
 oxygen fugacity on halogen volatility in magmatic systems (Wood). The BGS core repository
 supported work detailing the processes controlling the termination of Oceanic Anoxic Event 2
 from reconstructed Southern Hemisphere sea-surface temperatures (Robinson).

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy, and society

 4.1 Collaborations, networks, and partnerships

 National and international collaboration underpins our research. Of our 102 submitted outputs,
 94 have co-authors external to Oxford: 57 with other UK authors; 41 from elsewhere in Europe;
 and 66 from wider international institutes.

 Examples of effective partnerships in-period include:
    •    The Oxford-led NERC consortium (PI: Ballentine) ‘Mantle volatiles: processes, reservoirs
         and fluxes’ (2014-21) brought together 21 co-PIs, ten UK HEIs and international partners
         and supported seven PDRAs and eight PhD studentships. The Oxford team included six
         faculty and three PDRAs. This consortium has made major advances through 84
         publications (25 with an Oxford author, 45 with international partners); extended the UK
         network through five ‘all-hands’ meetings, including two with two related consortia (a
         NERC funded programme with Ballentine/Mather sitting on the management board); and
         established a major new sample resource from a multinational expedition to Kamchatka,
         Russia.
    •    Mather and Pyle contribute to the NERC large grant ‘Rift Volcanism: Past, Present and
         Future’ (2014-21) with six UK HEIs and five international project partners. The Oxford
         component supported one PDRA (now faculty in Brussels); resulted in 13 publications;
         and contributed Oxford expertise to hazard elicitations run by the BGS for the World
         Bank (2015), and to a report for the BGS Earth Hazards and Observatories Programme.
         A joint Oxford/Kenya GCRF workshop (Kenya, 2018), involving the UK and six African
         countries, catalysed new collaborations in Kenya between academics, industry
         (hydrothermal energy), and government.
    •    Other examples include participation in OSNAP (Johnson), a £50m international
         programme to observe the ocean overturning circulation at subpolar latitudes in the North
         Atlantic and its £2m follow-up, SNAPDRAGON (PI: Johnson); COMET (Mather, Pyle,
         Walker, Hawthorne) brings together world-leading scientists from 11 UK institutes
         working closely with the National Centre for Earth Observation, European Space Agency
         (ESA), and other international partners (§4.2.1 and §4.2.4); and Geotraces (Henderson),
         an international research programme focussed on biogeochemical cycles in the oceans,
         involving 15 international partners, and active participation of >30 countries (with data
         freely available online).

 4.2 Relationships with key external stakeholders and audiences, and wider impact

 Our research contributes to the wider economy and society and has impact through informing
 government environmental policy, public engagement, and in support of industry (§1.3).

 4.2.1   Applying our research to improve policy

 We highlight our impact on policy by presenting examples in four areas:

 Climate, Oceans, and Conservation
    •    Henderson chaired the Royal Society working group Ocean Resources; co-chaired the
         Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) international meeting on Environmental and
         Legal Implications of Deep-sea Mining; presented evidence to the House of Commons
         Environmental Audit Committee on Sustainable Seas (2018); and served on the expert
         advisory group for the 2018 Government Office for Science report, Foresight Future of
         the Sea.


                                                                                          Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •    Rickaby was a co-author on the UN Joint Group of Experts on the Scientific Aspects of
         Marine Environmental Protection report, High level review of a wide range of proposed
         marine geoengineering techniques (2019).
    •    Bouman contributed to a series of reports, roadmaps, and workshops to improve satellite
         ocean colour products and algal bloom detection (ESA, IOCCG, NASA, DEFRA /
         Environment Agency).
    •    Saupe initiated a series of workshops in sub-Saharan Africa (2019) on biodiversity data
         collection/analysis, involving policymakers to discuss implementation of sustainable
         development goals. This has increased capacity to make effective conservation
         decisions in >10 African nations.
 Natural Hazards
    •    Walker consults via the World Bank in the design of a new country-wide seismic hazard
         assessment for the Kyrgyz republic.
    •    Pyle/Mather contributed to a working paper on the impacts of volcanic ash to the UN
         Office for Disaster Risk Reduction global assessment report (2019 - GAR19). Mather
         hosted and presented advice on funding Earth observation research for monitoring
         volcanoes to the Cabinet Office, Government of Japan (2016). (Also See §4.2.4)
    •    Novel seismic techniques developed by Nissen-Meyer have been used to develop
         decision-making processes associated with tsunamis (GNS New Zealand representation
         to government leading to NZ$20m warning network) and earthquakes (Southern
         California Earthquake Center).
 Defence
 [Text removed for publication]
 Resources and Sustainability
    •    Through a Royal Society/Royal Academy of Engineering working group, Cartwright
         contributed to appraising shale gas research applicable for the UK.
    •    Ballentine worked with the UN International Atomic Energy Authority (2016) to co-author
         a paper on State-of-the-Art and Emerging Approaches to Identify Fracking Derived
         Gases and Associated Contaminants in Aquifers and applies this approach with the
         USGS (2018) to protect groundwater resources in California.
    •    Kendall contributed to a joint US-UK (NERC-NSF) workshop on improving Understanding
         of Potential Environmental Impacts Associated with Unconventional Hydrocarbons
         (2015) and provided consultancy to the UK Oil and Gas Authority on induced seismicity
         from shale gas stimulation (2019-20).

 4.2.2   Public Engagement with Research (PER)

 Our PER activities have helped to enrich research, establish new collaborations, and
 promote diversity in the discipline.

 Pyle was the first MPLS Division Academic Champion for PER (2017-20); Mather (Royal Society
 Rosalind Franklin Lecture, 2019; Darwin College Lectures, 2020) and Rickaby (Royal Society
 Summer Science Exhibition, 2019; and short films, ‘Adaptability’, 2015 and ‘Hay Levels’, 2017)
 are visible female role models for Earth science students. Other activities include Being Human
 (2016), Curiosity Carnival (2017), the Oxford Science Festival (annually) and Super Science
 Saturday (twice yearly). Since 2014, Oxford’s online science engagement platform Oxford
 Sparks has produced eight science podcasts and seven videos (with associated resources for
 schools) based on our research.

                                                                                          Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Specialist public engagement staff in OUMNH (12.6 FTE) interface between research and public
 audiences. OUMNH receives 800,000 visitors annually, the highest number to any university
 science museum globally. The museum’s Contemporary Science & Society series included three
 exhibitions with a significant Earth science component: Handwritten in Stone, 44,298 visitors
 (Searle); Bacterial World, 174,805 visitors (Anderson); and First Animals, 219,000 visitors
 (Dunn, Murdock, Rahman, Smith; impact case study).

 The NERC/ESRC-funded project ‘STREVA’ produced a mobile volcano simulation which toured
 seven venues over 20 days, attracting over 5,000 visitors. A spin-off card game, ‘Volcano Top
 Trumps’, became commercially available in 2015 and has been adopted by teachers in the UK
 and internationally. These provided the inspiration for follow-on AHRC-funded research projects
 engaging directly with communities in the Caribbean.

 In 2017, Pyle curated the first science-led exhibition, Volcanoes, in Oxford’s Bodleian Libraries
 and produced an accompanying book. Over three months this received 55,000 visitors and
 featured in 100 items of press coverage reaching ~200 million people.

 Researchers from the UoA have also led efforts to recognise global geological heritage sites,
 with OUMNH involved in the new Discovery UNESCO Global Geopark (Newfoundland, Canada,
 2020); and Searle helping develop proposals for UNESCO World Heritage status GeoPark sites
 and SSSI across Oman.

 4.2.3   Links with Industry and the Third Sector

 The application of geochemical tracer approaches has found particular success. The noble gas
 laboratory (Ballentine) has applied isotope tracing of subsurface fluid systems to projects funded
 by: the UK Department of Energy and Climate Change to determine the long-term
 performance of geological seals for carbon capture and storage applications; ExxonMobil,
 showing that a significant portion of CO2 injected into depleted oilfields can be microbially
 converted to methane, and must be considered when making a safety case for anthropogenic
 CO2 burial; Total oil company to determine the commercial viability of natural subsurface
 hydrogen sources; and the Canadian Nuclear Waste Management Organisation to determine
 the geological history of fluid movement through proposed nuclear waste disposal sites.

 Two projects with Shell: i) develop the use of isotope tracers in determining past surface
 depositional environments (Henderson/Cartwright); and ii) determine the natural flux of
 hydrocarbons from geological trapping structures into the environment, showing an under-
 recognised source of natural greenhouse gas emissions (IRF, Foschi). BP Exploration Ltd
 (Cartwright) funded work on depositional control on UK shale gas resources; and Saudi Aramco
 commissioned work on predictive models for subsurface fracture systems critical for subsurface
 fluid migration (Cartwright).

 Other major contracts from Hanno Resources informed metal ore exploration strategy (Robb)
 and the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company to build an understanding of the controls on collision
 tectonics and ophiolite emplacement (Watts).

 4.2.4   Responsiveness to national and international events

 Our long-term international collaborations with scientists and practitioners in disaster
 management – in particular through COMET, ‘Earthquakes Without Frontiers’, and ‘STREVA’ –
 has built capacity to respond to rapidly emerging events. For example, we provided scientific
 advice, analysis and data following volcanic eruptions in Chile (Calbuco, 2015; NERC Urgency
 Grant, Pyle), Indonesia (Krakatoa, 2018; NERC Urgency Grant, Cassidy) and the Caribbean (St
 Vincent, 2020). Immediately following the 2015 Nepal earthquake, we provided information to
 SAGE and COBR that guided response and subsequent monitoring of the risks (England). Via

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 solicited collaboration with the USGS/Hawaiian Volcano Observatory we provided key analyses
 on island-wide air quality impacts of the 2018 eruption and 2020 activity (Mather).

 4.3 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline and indicators of recognition

 The collective strength of DoES has been consistently recognised in the QS World University
 Rankings with Oxford placed in the top five institutes globally in the Earth and Marine Sciences
 category since 2015.

 Individually, our academics play a vigorous role in promoting and supporting the sustainability of
 the UK and international science community. Activities are recognised and encouraged as a
 component of promotion or salary cases.

 4.3.1    Learned Societies and Recognition

 Our members operate at the highest level in National Academies (Royal Society) and Science
 Societies as Presidents, Vice-Presidents, and Board Members. They lead the organisation of
 major international conferences and sit on the committees that award the major medals
 recognising international excellence. They also receive recognition for their own work through
 prestigious national and international awards.

 Major Learned Society Leadership
  Ballentine    Vice-President, President, and Past President, European Association of
                Geochemistry (EAG) (2012-18) (4,000 members)
                Elected, Board of Directors, American Geophysical Union (AGU) (2017-20)
                (55,000 members)
  Daly          President, Geological Society London (2020-22)
  Halliday      Vice-President and Physical Secretary, Royal Society (2014-17)
  Henderson Chair, Royal Society Global Environmental Research Committee
            Member, Royal Society Science Policy Expert Advisory Committee
            Chair, Joint Royal Society/Royal Academy of Engineering Working Group on
            Greenhouse Gas Removal Technologies
            Chair, Royal Society Working Group on Future Ocean Resources
  Mather        Board of Directors, Geochemical Society (GS) (2017-19) (6,000 members)
  Rickaby       President, Challenger Society (2020-22)
  Smith         President, Palaeontological Association (2016-18)
                Co-Chair, University Museums Group UK (2014-17)
                National Museum Directors Council (2013-18)

 Other Significant Society Roles
  Ballentine    Chair or member of awards committees (2012-18):
                   - GS/EAG: Fellowships; Gast Lectureship
                   - GS: Goldschmidt Medal
                   - EAG: Science Innovation Medal; Houtermans Medal
  England       Geological Society of America, Arthur Day Medal Committee
  Saupe         Joint Association for Women Geoscientists /Paleontological Society, Awards
                Committee
  Kendall       AGU, Fellows Committee (2017-18)
                Royal Society, Fellows Committee (2019-present)
                2020 Kuwait Prize (Earth Sciences), Selection Panel member
                Royal Society 2020 Young People’s Book Prize, Judging Panel chair

                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Rahman       Palaeontological Association, Council member (2014-17)
  Smith        Geological Society London, Awards Committee and Grants Committee
  Murdock      Geological Society London, Science Committee member, and Early Career
               Network
  Rahman       Palaeontological Association, Awards Committee

 Major Conference or Meeting Leadership
  Ballentine   Goldschmidt Conferences (2009,11,13,15) (3-5,000 attendees), Chair, Co-Chair,
               or Host
               Deep Carbon Observatory (DCO) International Conference, St Andrews (2018)
               (300 attendees), Chair
  Katz         Earth2Earth UK-wide geoscience seminar series, co-founder,
               https://earth2earthseminar.com/index.html
  Mather       Goldschmidt conference, Theme Chair (2016, 2019) and scientific organising
               committee (2021)
               DCO International Conference, St Andrews (2018), organising committee
  Saupe        Geological Society of America, Technical Program Representative
               British Ecological Society Meeting, ‘Crossing the Palaeoecology-Ecology Gap’,
               Co-Chair
               Royal Society Hooke Discussion Meeting, Co-organiser
  Tosca        Mineralogical Society of Great Britain & Ireland, 2015 Euroclay Meeting,
               Organising Committee

 Selected Recognition
  Awards Presented by Head of State
  Ballentine ENI Award (2016), Sergio Mattarella, President of Italy
  Halliday     Knight Bachelor (2019), HM Queen Elizabeth II
  Smith        Polar Medal (2017), HM Queen Elizabeth II

  Major Learned Society Awards
  Blundy     Royal Society Research Professor (2020)
  Cartwright   AAPG, Grover E Murray Medal (2014)
  England      Royal Astronomical Society, Gold Medal (2016)
               AGU, Bucher Medal (2018)
  Mather       Royal Society, Rosalind Franklin Award and Lecture (2018)
  Parsons      EGU, Augustus Love Medal (2017)
  Rickaby      Geological Society of London, Lyell Medal (2017)
  COMET        Royal Astronomical Society, group achievement award (2018)
               (Mather/Walker/Pyle/Parsons/England/Hawthorne)

  Early Career Awards
  Cosmidis    Canadian Light Source, Young Investigator Award (2018)
              French Society of Mineralogy and Crystallography (SFMC) and the French
              Geological Society (SGF), Best Doctoral Thesis (2014)
  Marquardt    Bavarian Academy of Sciences, Selected member (Young Scholars’
               Programme) (2016)
               German Science Foundation, Emmy Noether Award (2014)
                                                                                          Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  Saupe         Proceedings Royal Society B, Best Associate Editor (2018 and 2019)
                Association for Women Geoscientists, Outstanding Service Award (2015)
                Erasmus S. Haworth Distinguished Graduate Award, University of Kansas
                (2014)
  Stevens       AGU, Geophysical Research Letters, Citation for Excellence in Refereeing
                (2018)
                United States Antarctic Service Medal (2017)
                AGU Hydrology Section, Horton Research Grant Award (2015)

 National Academy-level Fellowships
    • Seven Fellows of the Royal Society (FRS) were UoA members in-period, with two
       elected in this period: Kendall, Watts.
    •     Seven Fellows of the AGU were UoA members in-period: Ballentine, Kendall, Rickaby,
          England, Halliday, Parsons, Watts, Wood.
    •     Fellow of CIFAR (Canadian Institute for Advanced Research): Ballentine

 4.3.2    Selected Journal Editorships

 All returned staff referee publications. Our researchers play a significant role in supporting the
 science community through editorial roles:
  Mather           Co-Editor-in-Chief, Earth and Planetary Science Letters (2014-19)
  Nissen-Meyer     Topical Editor, Solid Earth (EGU)
  Pyle             Board of Editors, Geological Research Journal
  Rahman           Editor, Paleontological Society Short Course on Virtual Paleontology
                   Editor, Palaeontology
                   Editor, Papers in Palaeontology
  Robinson         Guest Editor, Sedimentology
  Saupe            Editor, Journal of Biogeography
                   Associate Editor, Proceedings of the Royal Society B
                   Guest Editor, Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B
                   Guest Editor, Palaeobiology Journal
  Tosca            Editorial Board, Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta (Elsevier)
                   Editorial Board, Sedimentology (Wiley)

 4.3.3    Support of, and Engagement with, Science Funding Bodies

 We help shape UK science funding policy through extensive engagement with the UKRI NERC
 funding body at the highest strategic level and on operational committees. The UoA plays a
 substantive role in the decision-making that results in disbursement of research funds nationally
 and internationally (e.g., ERC).

 Membership of NERC Advisory Councils
  England          Science Innovation and Strategy Board (2012-15)
  Henderson        Member of Council (2018-present)
  Kendall          Science Innovation and Strategy Board (2011-14)
  Mather           Science Committee (2017-22)
                   Chair, Large Infrastructure Evaluation Committee (2017-18)
                   Chair, Evaluation of the UK IODP Subscription (2018)


                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


                 Panel member, NERC IODP Subscription Renewal Assessment (2018)
                 Science Committee Recruitment Panel (2019)
  Nissen-Meyer High-performance Computing Steering Committee (2018-current)
  Pyle           CDT Panel - smart and autonomous observation (2015)


 Membership of UK Research Council Grant Panels
  Hawthorne      NERC Standard Grant Panel Member (2019)
  Katz           NERC Standard Grant Panel Member (2013-2018)
  Pyle           Diamond Light Source, Beam-time Allocation Panel (2015-2019)
                 Royal Society, Future Leaders, Africa, in Research (FLAIR) Fellowships
                 (2018-21)
                 UKRI, Future Leader Fellowships (2018-21)
                 Royal Society, Leverhulme Trust Senior Research Fellowships Panel
  Rahman         Science and Technology Facilities Council (STFC) Engineering Facility Access
                 Panel, ISIS (2018)
  Robinson       Large grants sift panel (2016)
                 Large grants interview panel (2017)
                 NERC-NSFC (China) Biosphere Evolution, Transitions & Resilience Panel
                 (Beijing) (2016)
                 Independent Research Fellowships Panel (2019)
                 UK IODP Knowledge Coordination Call Panel (2019)

 Membership of International Research Councils or Institutes
  Ballentine     European Research Council, PE10 Grants Panel (Advanced Grants) (2016-
                 current)
  Henderson      Academia Sinica, International Advisory Board for Earth Sciences (2017-20)
                 Earth Observatory of Singapore, Science Advisory Board (2020-22)
  Kendall        European Research Council PE10, Grants Panel (Consolidator Grants) (2019)
                 Norwegian Research Council, Panel Member (2017-20)
  MacNiocaill    Norwegian Research Council, Panel Member (2015-current)
  Mather         International Continental Drilling Programme Science Advisory Group (2019-
                 22)




                                                                                          Page 23
