Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of York

 Unit of Assessment: 12 – Engineering

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and Overview
 The Department of Electronic Engineering (EE) has initiated a bold and transformational
 vision of growth and excellence that will continue into the next assessment period and beyond.
 Since REF2014, we have delivered significant and targeted investment in staff and associated
 infrastructure to promote discovery- and challenge-led research in five strategic application
 areas that cut across the Department’s two umbrella research groups (Intelligent Systems and
 Nano-Science and Communication Technologies) and which align with the broader research
 strategy of the University (Institutional Environment Statement (IES), 4, 12):
     • Autonomous & Robotic Systems
     • Communications for Challenging Environments
     • Electronics for Healthcare
     • Immersive and Interactive Technologies
     • Next Generation Electronic Devices & Materials
 The scale, ambition and sustainability of our research and environment are highlighted below
 and described in detail in the following sections:

 Research environment:
 Significant investment has been secured to upgrade existing infrastructure and develop new
 research facilities that align with our application areas and support the ambitions of our staff. For
 example, through departmental and EPSRC funding we have established dedicated wetware
 and cadaver laboratories to support our research aligned with Electronics for Healthcare. EE is
 also a partner in the £35m UK Research Partnership Investment Fund (UKRPIF) project ‘Global
 Initiative for Safe Autonomy’ establishing the Institute for Safe Autonomy, including flagship
 facilities to underpin our research in Communications for Challenging Environments and
 Autonomous & Robotic Systems (IES 11c).

 Interdisciplinary and collaborative research:
 EE is distinctive in the scale and ambition of its interdisciplinary research and promotes
 partnerships that span academic disciplines (across the physical and life sciences, arts and
 humanities), industry (e.g. Huawei, Google, TAS-UK, Melexis, BBC R&D and Dstl), and cultural
 and charitable organisations (e.g. Centre for Digital Heritage, Oxfam and Alzheimer’s UK). EE
 leads the £15m AHRC Creative Industries R&D Partnership XR Stories in collaboration with
 Screen Yorkshire and the BFI, further supported through the £5m Research England Screen
 Industries Growth Network (aligned with the application area Immersive and Interactive
 Technologies) (IES 11a).

 Attracting and developing researchers:
 Following investment worth £25m from the University of York (IES, 10), we have targeted the
 recruitment of internationally leading staff aligned with our application areas, particularly
 Electronics for Healthcare and Autonomous & Robotic Systems. We continue to support and
 develop staff to achieve their academic ambitions, as evidenced by the quality of their research
 outputs and the number of academic promotions, and to achieve their wider leadership and
 impact-focussed aspirations, e.g. three members of staff hold/ have held senior leadership
 positions within the University (Robinson, Murphy, Timmis) and four members of staff founded
 and lead University spin-out companies (Smith, Tyrrell, Pelah and Timmis).

 Training the next generation:
 We continue to attract and train the best PhD candidates globally and the number of PhD
 degrees awarded has increased 50% since REF2014. The quality of our students and training
 provision is evidenced by the quality of their research outputs and positions they have secured in
 prestigious companies and universities.

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Evaluation with reference to REF2014
 Vision for research and impact:
 The broad aims of the Department for research and impact were and continue to be:
    1. To undertake world-leading research in areas of existing strength and to grow capability
        in emerging areas of societal and economic importance.
    2. To provide research facilities and a vibrant research culture that will attract research
        staff, early career researchers and research students and supports all researchers
        equally to achieve their research and career aspirations.
    3. To undertake impact-led and collaborative research and promote translation of our core
        research to commercial implementation and societal adoption.

 Key achievements in research and impact:
 Below we highlight notable research achievements across our five strategic application areas
 that evidence the success of our research excellence and impact strategy.

 Communications for Challenging Environments:
 We are distinctive in conducting research that cuts across both the physical layer and
 networking aspects of wireless communications in underwater vehicles and high-altitude
 platforms (HAPs). This strategic application area has been enhanced during the REF period
 through recruitment of new staff (Ko, Ahmadi). Our research is supported through UKRI and EC
 funded projects (e.g. SPOTLIGHT Marie Curie ITN, 5G-AURA Marie-Curie ITN, EU FP7
 ABSOLUTE, EP/R003297/1, EP/P017975/1) and supported by academic and industrial partners,
 including BT, Orange, Thales, TE Connectivity, Jozef Stefan Institute, the Woods Hole
 Oceanographic Institution, MoD and Stratospheric Platforms. EE is a founding partner of the
 Institute for Safe Autonomy (Grace is Research Lead for Communications) that will establish a
 new flagship facility with dedicated laboratory space for experimental validation of
 communications for challenging environments and underpin new opportunities for research in
 quantum communications, in collaboration with the cross-departmental York Centre for Quantum
 Technologies (YCQT). Specific highlights include:
     • We have developed and demonstrated the Helikite USRP Testbed for rapid and routine
          experimental evaluation of wireless protocols from HAPs. This innovation was a Winner
          of the 2018 National Instruments EMEIA Engineering Impact Awards in Wireless
          Communications and is being used to provide wireless communications for temporary
          events as part of the Mobile Access North Yorkshire project (funded by the UK
          Government 5G Testbeds and Trials initiative). Using this versatile platform, we have
          also demonstrated a range of physical layer and network innovations, including antenna
          beamforming and spectrum coexistence coupled with artificial intelligence to perform
          self-organisation. These innovations have since been validated in partnerships with
          industry. For example, funded by Stratospheric Platforms Ltd
          (www.stratosphericplatforms.com), we have evaluated our novel, patented antenna
          beamforming concepts for ‘direct to the handset’ mobile wireless from the stratosphere.
          Grace has recently been recognised as an Ericsson UK 5G Trailblazer/ Pioneer,
          highlighting the significance of our research in the delivery of temporary 5G connectivity
          using aerial platforms.
     • We developed both physical layer transmission and networking techniques designed for
          the harsh underwater propagation environment. This includes full-duplex underwater
          communications to significantly increase the capacity of the highly constrained
          underwater channel and demonstration of intelligent MAC protocols which can
          reconfigure and self-heal. These innovations have been evaluated in lake and sea trials
          in Israel (supported by the Royal Society), Scotland and through the MOD Progeny
          programme, for military underwater applications led by Thales.

 Electronics for Healthcare:
 Our healthcare research spans three main themes; computational approaches to healthcare,
 surgical robotics and biomolecular diagnostics. This strategic application area has been
 enhanced during the REF assessment period, including recruitment of new staff (Tse, Patil),

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 refurbishment of dedicated laboratories and expansion of interdisciplinary collaborations with
 biomedical academics, clinical practitioners and with patients and their carers. Our research
 further supported through close alignment with the University research themes Technologies for
 the Future and Health and Wellbeing and through engagement with the York Biomedical
 Research Institute of which six members of EE staff are principal investigators. Since REF2014
 we have been successful in attracting significant funding from a range of funders to support our
 healthcare research, including from UKRI [BBSRC: BB/L018160; EPSRC: EP/P027571/1,
 EP/P030017/1, EP/P02324X/1, EP/M027538/1; and MRC: MC_PC_15073] and charities [Royal
 Academy of Engineering, Royal Society and Parkinson's UK]. Notable successes include:
     • We have developed and applied patented algorithms inspired by evolutionary processes
         to improve the diagnosis and treatment of Parkinson's disease. This technology has
         since been clinically validated and commercialised through the spin-out ClearSky
         Medical Diagnostics (Smith, co-founder and director), is currently used in medical
         centres world-wide, including in the UK, Australia and China (see REF3) and is
         supporting clinical trials for repurposed drug therapies to slow or even halt the
         progression of Parkinson’s (collaboration with University of Cambridge and King’s
         College, London). In addition to translational research, we also undertake fundamental
         computational research into the structure and function of the nervous system in health
         and disease. This includes collaborations with leading neuroscientists at University
         College London, University of Oxford and the National Hospital for Neurology &
         Neurosurgery to apply novel neuronal signal processing techniques developed in EE to
         investigate and quantify altered connectivity in the Parkinsonian brain.
     • We demonstrated a range of electronic, photonic and micromechanical diagnostic
         platforms for parallel detection of disease biomarkers (including proteins and
         metabolites) using technologies compatible with conventional CMOS processing. Our
         innovative diagnostic technology has since led to further, funded collaborations with York
         Teaching Hospital NHS Foundation Trust to translate new biosensor technology for the
         diagnosis of drug resistant infections [EP/P02324X/1] and with Oxfam Australia to
         explore water quality monitoring technology co-designed with communities to ensure
         innovations that are appropriate, equitable and sustainable [EP/P027571/1].
     • We developed the first MRI-compatible monitor to provide cardiac blood flow velocity and
         12-lead ECG information for patient physiology monitoring during MRI imaging and MRI-
         guided surgery. The technology received regulatory approval following human clinical
         trials at Harvard and Johns Hopkins teaching hospitals and is now commercialised by the
         spin-out MIRTLE Inc. (http://www.mirtlemed.com/).

 Autonomous & Robotic Systems:
 Since REF2014 we have recruited new staff (Post, Miyashita, Hu) and invested in new
 infrastructure enabling us to expand and broaden our research in robotic systems. We now
 conduct research in both robotic hardware and software, including the development of software
 tools for assuring the safety of autonomous robotic systems. Since REF2014 we have been
 successful in attracting significant funding from UKRI [EP/R03561X/1, EP/R025479/1,
 EP/M025756/1, EP/N007050/1] and the EU. These successes underpinned the award of the
 UKRPIF ‘Institute for Safe Autonomy’ (Tyrrell is on the Management team) establishing a
 dedicated new building with additional specialist laboratories for experimental evaluation and
 validation of robotic systems on land, in water and in the air alongside space for 100 people
 enabling co-location of researchers from across the University. Notable exemplars of our
 research include:
     • We demonstrated fault-tolerant hardware using self-tuning spiking neural networks
         inspired by astrocyte-neuron interactions in the brain, that exhibits fault tolerance to
         injected hardware failures, even in noisy environments [EP/N007050/1]. This resulted in
         a funded collaboration with Dstl to deliver a fault-tolerant autonomous robotic system,
         capable of environmental mapping of hazardous chemicals.
     • In collaboration with researchers at MIT, we demonstrated metamorphic robots that
         exploit heat and solubility to trigger self-folding and dissolution of a polymer exoskeleton
         in order to control morphology and capability, here metamorphosing between a robot that
         can move on ground, water and air.

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   We developed a Common Data Fusion Framework (CDFF) to effectively combine data
        acquired by sensor networks onboard satellites, rovers and other space vehicles. This
        open framework has been adopted for all European Space Agency Strategic Research
        Clusters in robotic sensing, communications and power transfer technologies. This
        research was supported by Horizon 2020 funding [€3.5m, InFuse project] in a consortium
        including Space Applications Services NV (Belgium), German Aerospace Centre,
        German Research Centre For Artificial Intelligence, Magellium Sas, the University of
        Strathclyde and the Laboratory Of Systems Analysis And Architecture.

 Immersive and Interactive Technologies:
 Building on our extensive experimental facilities, interdisciplinary expertise and existing
 strengths in immersive audio, our research has become increasingly impact-led in applications
 from virtual and augmented reality (Kearney, REF3) to health and wellbeing and acoustic
 modelling of historic sites (Murphy, Daffern, REF3). Our research has been strengthened by
 the recruitment of Kearney and the promotion of Murphy to University Research Champion of
 the Creativity strategic research theme, and by our extensive and diverse research
 collaborations with Google, Huawei, BBC R&D, Xperi/DTS, Meridian Audio, Houses of
 Parliament, Sennheiser, Arup, AECOM, National Trust, and York Museums Trust. EE was a
 founding partner of the Digital Creativity Labs in York, a multidisciplinary
 EPSRC/AHRC/InnovateUK Digital Economy Impact Hub between EE, Computer Science and
 Theatre, Film, Television and Interactive Media [EP/M023265/1] and leads the £15m XR Stories
 AHRC Creative Industry R&D Partnership Cluster project [AH/S002839/1]. Notable
 achievements include:
     • We have developed new higher order ambisonic and binaural audio algorithms for
         realistic soundfield creation and reproduction to enhance the audio experience for
         example in online video gaming [EP/M001210/1, AH/N00356X/1, AH/R009139/1,
         Google]. Take-up of this technology has been significant (as detailed in REF3), including
         Omnitone and YouTube platforms, and with Sennheiser we have developed novel
         content for their new AMBEO augmented reality headset. Our binaural algorithms
         dedicated to immersive experiences for next generation 5G mobile devices have been
         further developed in collaboration with Huawei and Google.
     • We have developed auralisation tools to support the characterization and design of
         urban, architectural and environmental soundscapes [NE/N018745/1, EP/P001947/1],
         demonstrated through collaboration with AECOM (through a Royal Society Industry
         Fellowship, IF130114, hosted in EE) and Arup in their major environmental acoustics
         projects, including the auralisation of the new Stonehenge bypass. In partnership with the
         Houses of Parliament (see REF3), we have further applied auralisation and
         reconstruction to historic architectural sites, leading to a major national exhibition, ‘Voice
         and Vote’ in Westminster Hall in 2018, that was seen by more than 100,000 visitors
         [AH/P012094/1] and most recently with Sorbonne University, France, and University of
         Parma, Italy, on ‘The Past Has Ears’ European Joint Programming Initiative on Cultural
         Heritage Infrastructure including partners at Notre Dame, Paris [AH/V001094/1].

 Next Generation Electronic Devices & Materials:
 Our research is targeted in two themes, reconfigurable electronic hardware, an area that has
 been strengthened by the recruitment of Bale, and solid-state spintronic devices and materials.
 These themes have been supported by significant EPSRC funding [e.g. EP/R032823/1
 EP/K040820/1, EP/M02458X/1] and collaborations with leading international academic institutes,
 including Tohoku University, Nanjing University, MIT and TU Kaiserslautern, and with key
 industry leaders such as JEOL Ltd, Seagate, Arm and Hitachi. Highlights include:
     • We have expanded our research in biologically-inspired software to increasingly
         encompass hardware systems e.g. Platform Grant EP/K040820/1 and InnovateUK. This
         has led to demonstration of reconfigurable and self-repairing electronic hardware that
         can be optimized via an evolutionary algorithm to overcome the atomistic, statistical
         variations inherent to current nanoscale silicon technologies. These algorithms have
         been further developed for multi-objective automated circuit optimisation and have since
         been evaluated and validated through collaboration with e.g. Huawei and Arm and are

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        being commercialised through the University spin-out, ngenics Global Ltd (Tyrrell,
        founder and CEO).
    •   We developed and demonstrated the first all-metal, three-terminal lateral spin valve with
        spin modulation that is around 30% higher than other spin valve architectures. This
        device has significant potential for application in on-chip memory applications and is
        protected through international patents held in the UK, US and Japan.
    •   We also undertake research into novel analytical technologies for device characterisation
        and demonstrated a new and non-destructive approach to characterise hetero- and
        homojunctions in nanoelectronic and spintronic devices using a conventional scanning
        electron microscope. We are supporting the major chip manufacturer Seagate to apply
        this technique for evaluating memory disk read heads and magnetic random-access
        memories.

 Future Strategic Research Vision
 Over the coming REF period we will continue to promote and deliver world-leading, impact-led
 and collaborative research that defines the research agenda across our five, strategic
 application areas. This will require continued investment to reinforce the application-area
 structure that has proven successful over the last four years. The University has agreed a bold
 and ambitious plan for recruitment of new staff and new infrastructure focused initially on
 strategic priority areas Electronics for Healthcare and Autonomous & Robotic Systems. The
 development of our strategic priorities is an ongoing and collaborative process that combines
 bottom-up intelligence of local expertise, interests and facilities with top-down input from across
 the University (IES, 9, 10, 12), funder priorities and from our Industry Advisory Group, to reflect
 local, national and international priorities. We will continue to strengthen the scope of our
 research by promoting and expanding partnerships that cross traditional disciplinary boundaries
 and will explore mechanisms for closer engagement with other departments. This collaborative
 approach aligns with the University vision and priorities (IES 12, 18) and ensures inspirational
 and innovative research with broad relevance and impact. We will also strengthen partnerships
 outside of academia to create pathways that enhance the translation and impact of our research
 in areas of national and societal importance e.g. robotics and autonomous systems. Our specific
 objectives for the next REF period are:

    1. Recruiting and supporting staff: Through continued support of existing staff and
       recruitment of new staff aligned with our strategic application areas, we will increase
       capacity to support major research initiatives and deliver excellent science. This includes
       recruitment of academic, teaching, research and support staff necessary to increase the
       number of large-scale grants, for example in Electronics for Healthcare and Robotics &
       Autonomous systems. We will achieve this through focused replacement of posts,
       expansion into identified growth areas and management of our student numbers. We
       have already secured funding from the University (worth over £25m) for new laboratory
       space, recruitment of new academic staff aligned to our strategic applications areas (3
       Professors and 6 lecturers related to Electronics for Healthcare and Robotics &
       Autonomous systems, and 4 lecturers in broader areas) and recruitment of new teaching
       staff (2 in management and 1 in electrical engineering) to manage teaching load for
       research active staff.

    2. Collaborative, impact-led research: A key strategic objective is to enhance and expand
       partnerships within and beyond academia, and to establish an impact pipeline that will
       allow the Department to maximise the impact of our fundamental and applied research
       across academia, society, industry and commerce. Evidence of our commitment to
       collaborative, impact-led research includes the wide range of partnerships that span
       academic disciplines (across the physical, life and social sciences), industry and
       commerce (e.g. Huawei, Google, BBC R&D and Dstl), cultural and charitable
       organisations (e.g. Centre for Digital Heritage and Alzheimer’s UK), and our spin-out
       companies and entrepreneurial activities (e.g. Smith, Pelah, Timmis, Royal Academy of
       Engineering Enterprise Fellowship). We will continue to engage with the University
       Research and Enterprise Office (REO) to identify and develop new partnerships aligned

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        with our research interests, and to conduct “commercialisation reviews” of all activity, to
        allow early identification of intellectual property issues, patent applications and spin-out
        possibilities. The XR Stories Creative Industry R&D Partnership Cluster (Murphy) that
        aims grow the screen industries in Yorkshire and the Humber, demonstrates our success
        in delivering collaborative, impact-led research. We will also continue to promote impact
        through an ethos of open research. For example, within the Electronics for Healthcare
        strategic application area, we have precedence for co-production of research through
        partnerships with healthcare workers, charities and with patients and carers (Smith,
        Johnson, Daffern). By continuing to work closely with the Department of Health
        Sciences, the Involvement@York network, Hull York Medical School and York Teaching
        Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, we will establish a network of partnerships for
        translation of our healthcare research.

    3. Research Facilities: We will continue to support and enhance facilities that underpin the
       core research interests of our staff and invest in new, specialised infrastructure aligned
       with our strategic application areas. Targeted development of current facilities and
       investment in new infrastructure will be prioritised by the Departmental Research
       Committee (DRC), informed by our strategic research vision . We will achieve this
       through two mechanisms: 1) A rolling equipment replacement programme (in place)
       supported through Departmental funds, for servicing of laboratory instruments and
       replacement of key instruments. 2) Where appropriate, we will seek funding from the
       University or from external funders to develop strategically important new facilities. We
       have already demonstrated success through this route including the Bio-Inspired
       Technologies laboratory that was established in 2016 through an EPSRC equipment
       grant (EP/M028127) as a biosafety level 2 facility to support research in diagnostic
       technologies for healthcare. Going forward, we have already secured funding to establish
       new facilities that align with our research aspirations in Communications for Challenging
       Environments and Autonomous & Robotic Systems. This includes University support to
       establish a new mechanical engineering facility including equipment for precision
       machining and fabrication of small and large-scale robotic systems (£3m). Similarly, the
       Institute of Safe Autonomy (£35m UKRPIF) will provide dedicated facilities for validating
       robots on land, air and water, alongside laboratories to develop and characterise HAPs
       and underwater communication technologies.

    4. Research student community: During the next REF period, we will increase the
       number of postgraduate research students enrolled in the Department, aiming for 3 PGR
       per FTE (currently 2.2 PhD students/ FTE). Since REF2014, we have already
       demonstrated success in winning funding for postgraduate studentships from across
       UKRI, international government scholarships and industry (see section 2) and we will
       build on these successes to further diversify funding aligned with our strategic application
       areas. For example, as we have done through the Wellcome DTP Combating Infectious
       Disease: Computational Approaches in Translational Science (CIDCATS), we will
       continue to engage with colleagues across the University to establish funding from UKRI,
       the EU and charities to support interdisciplinary PhD studentships, and to explore
       opportunities to fund a cohort of interdisciplinary PhD students, particularly aligned with
       strategic application areas Electronics for Healthcare and Autonomous & Robotic
       Systems. We have also been successful in attracting funding from industrial partners for
       PhD students aligned with strategic application area Immersive and Interactive
       Technologies (e.g. Google, BBC R&D and Meridian Audio) and will work with REO to
       identify and develop new partnerships and industrial studentship funding across our
       research portfolio.

 Open research and research integrity
 The Department expects the highest standards in how staff, students and visitors plan, conduct
 and disseminate their research, in compliance with University policies (IES, 14). Informed by
 University policy (IES 15-17) and supported by the Open Research Strategy Group (ORSG), we
 also enhance the visibility of our research by promoting a culture of open research at all phases

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the research cycle, from co-production of research to sharing of data and resources, and
 dissemination. Examples of open research include:
     • Co-production: Through EPSRC grant (EP/P027571/1, Johnson) we have developed
         participatory approaches that embed marginalised communities in R&D to ensure
         innovations that are appropriate, equitable and sustainable. We also actively engage with
         patients and carers to promote translation of our healthcare research, for example
         patients with Parkinson's disease supported testing and validation of an evolutionary
         algorithm-based approach to home diagnosis of Parkinson’s dyskinesia (Smith). We are
         supported in patient and public involvement by the Involvement@York network who
         provide access to patients and public cohorts, share best practice, and support the
         management of compliance, including GDPR and safeguarding.
     • Sharing of data and resources: Subject to IP, confidential or commercially sensitive data,
         research data is archived and shared openly through The Research Data York service
         which manages the York Research Database. Data files along with metadata uploaded
         to the database (via Pure) are assigned a digital object identifier to allow citation of the
         dataset. Where possible, we also support open sharing of source code e.g. NeuroSpec
         (http://www.neurospec.org, Halliday) maintains an archive of MATLAB routines for
         multivariate Fourier analysis of time series and/or point process data.
     • Open Access publishing: Subject to funder requirements, all publications (including
         journal articles and conference papers) are archived and shared through Pure and the
         White Rose Research Online repositories. Postgraduate research student theses are
         archived in the open access White Rose eTheses Online (WREO) repository shared by
         the Universities of York, Leeds and Sheffield. The University Library manages the York
         Open Access fund for payment of open access publication charges. Compliance with the
         University policy on the Publication of Research is monitored through the Departmental
         Research Committee who also promote awareness and understanding of this policy in
         the Department.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 EE comprises 29 (FTE 28.2) members of academic research staff, 12 research staff and an
 average of 60 postgraduate research students/year. Academic staff, postdoctoral research
 associates (PDRAs), and post-graduate research students (PhD, DPhil, MSc by Research), are
 embedded in one of our two research groups; Intelligent Systems and Nano-Science (ISNS) and
 Communication Technologies (CT). This research group structure fosters research collaboration
 and critical mass for long-term sustainability, oversight of infrastructural development,
 coordination of large grant applications and well-defined leadership to support individual career
 aspirations. Research groups are led by a senior academic who also support delivery of the
 Departmental strategic vision in conjunction with the DRC, Deputy Head of Department for
 Research (Smith) and Head of Department (Tyrrell).

 The Department provides dedicated research and facility support through eight technical support
 staff (FTE 7). The technical support team are regularly embedded within academic research
 projects. For example, between 2017 and 2019, the technical support team collaborated closely
 with academic staff to design, develop and deploy the Helikite USRP Testbed and to evaluate
 the platform for experimental evaluation of wireless protocols from HAPs. The University is a
 signatory of the Technician Commitment (IES 40) which supports the visibility and career
 development of our technical support staff through courses, fora and TechYork conferences.

 Recruitment strategy
 Our recruitment strategy aims to attract the best talent and maintain excellence in both teaching
 and research across areas of established excellence and to support growth in our strategic
 application areas. Reviews of staffing and prioritisation of recruitment are evaluated against
 Departmental needs (including strategic initiatives, succession planning, teaching requirements),
 Faculty and University targets (IES, section 3), and external factors including funder priorities
 and student recruitment.

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Staff appointments:
 Since REF2014, we have recruited a total of 9 new members of academic staff. Appointments
 are generally made at junior level (Lecturer/ Senior Lecturer) in order to ensure sustainability
 and succession; Kearney (2015), recruited to strengthen research in Immersive and Interactive
 Technologies, Bale (2019), to reinforce ongoing research in biologically-inspired systems,
 Ahmadi (2020) and Ko (2019) to strengthen research in wireless communication technologies,
 Patil (2020) aligned with Electronics for Healthcare and Miyashita (2016) and Post (2019)
 recruited to support growth in Autonomous & Robotic Systems. We also attract and recruit
 established senior research leaders to align with strategic initiatives. For example, Hu (2020)
 was recruited (at Reader level) to provide new expertise in power electronics to support the
 Autonomous & Robotic Systems strategic application area and Tse (2020) recruited to a new
 chair in medical robotics to enhance, inspire and diversify research in Electronics for Healthcare.

 Career Development: Academic Staff
 We support academic staff and research fellows at all stages of their career to meet their
 potential. This is achieved through a combination of Institutional (IES, section 3) and
 Departmental initiatives that are accessible to all staff. These are detailed below:
    1. Support for new staff: All new academic staff and independent research fellows
        undertake a targeted induction programme that introduces them to the Department, the
        Faculty and the University. Department level support for new academic staff includes
        pump-priming funds to support start-up costs and collaboration building (value dependent
        on the nature of research and facility requirements), reduced teaching commitment for 1
        year (minimum 50% of the Departmental norm), and prioritisation of research student
        allocation. At the University level, newly appointed academics without commensurate
        teaching experience undertake the AdvanceHE accredited, Masters-level PGCAP
        programme. ECR’s (lecturers in their first post and independent research fellows) are
        additionally assigned a senior mentor to support their transition to academic
        independence. Evidence of the quality of our support and mentoring of ECR’s includes
        the award of external funding e.g. Kearney (EPSRC First Grant in collaboration with the
        BBC and AHRC), Daffern (two AHRC grants in collaboration with National Trust and Age
        UK) and Post (EPSRC Supergen ORE hub grant).
    2. Performance and Development Review (PDR): All staff undertake an annual PDR to
        reflect on their achievements and to identify needs and associated development activities
        commensurate with each stage of their research career. The HoD conducts all academic
        PDRs and has oversight of all other PDRs enabling recognition of achievement and
        performance benchmarking at the Departmental level. The University Learning and
        Development (L&D) team offer a wide range of training courses in topics including
        supervision of research students & staff, knowledge exchange & impact and developing
        research proposals. The Department works closely with the L&D team to develop a suite
        of training that supports individual needs.
    3. Workload management & Sabbatical scheme: The balance between research, teaching,
        enterprise and administration is managed by the HoD using a workload model visible to
        all staff in an anonymised form to ensure transparency. This is reviewed annually (over a
        three year window allowing for future planning) in one-to-one meetings with the HoD. The
        Department sabbatical system strengthens research by supporting extended visits to
        national and international collaborators from within and without academia. The scheme is
        available to all academic staff through a transparent application process assessed by the
        DRC. The DRC also identifies individuals who would benefit most from sabbatical leave
        (IES, 23). This approach to sabbatical allocation has been highly successful e.g.
        Johnson exploited a 6-month targeted sabbatical to develop national and international
        collaborations to support three EPSRC grants (£1.2m as PI, £6.1m as CoI) and Murphy
        secured a position as University Research Theme Champion in Creativity, leading to the
        award of the AHRC XR Stories project as a consequence.
    4. Promotion: Applications for merit-based promotion of academic, research and teaching
        staff are assessed annually by the University Academic Promotion Committee (APC)
        supported by subject-specific advice from the Faculty Advisory Panel (FAP) that includes

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       a representative of the Department. Individuals are encouraged to discuss their case with
       the HoD and candidates are supported in preparing promotion documentation by the
       FAP representative. Since REF2014, 4 staff were promoted to senior lectureships, 3 to
       readerships and 2 to professorships.
    5. Personal research fellowships and Research leaders: Since REF2014, we have
       supported staff to apply for and be awarded a number of prestigious, external fellowships
       including Hirohata (Royal Society Industry Fellowship, in collaboration with the Hitachi
       Cambridge Laboratory), Timmis, Pelah & Smith (Royal Academy of Engineering
       Enterprise Fellowship) and Tse (Royal Society Wolfson Fellowship). We have also
       supported three members of staff into senior leadership positions within the University:
       Robinson (Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Teaching, Learning and Students), Murphy
       (University Research Theme Champion for Creativity) and Timmis (Pro-Vice-Chancellor
       for Partnerships and Engagement).

 Career Development: Post-doctoral Research Assistants (PDRAs)
 The University of York has held the HR Excellence in Research award since 2010; evidence of
 sustained commitment to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
 (IES, 27, 28). Department mechanisms to support PDRAs are guided by University policy and
 align with the principles of the Concordat. All PDRAs undertake an annual PDR with their line
 manager that follows the same principles as those for academic staff. Career development
 needs are identified in collaboration with the University Research Excellence Training Team
 (RETT, IES 32) which provides training courses and advice in research skills, engagement and
 career planning. We also work closely with RETT to support outstanding PDRAs to apply for
 personal fellowships, e.g. EE hosted a Centre for Future Health Fellow (funded by the
 University/Wellcome Trust), mentored by Johnson. The Early Career Research Forum (ECRF),
 led by an elected PDRA and supported by a senior member of academic staff, has
 representation on the DRC to provide a link between research staff and Departmental and
 Institutional support teams. Our success in the career development of PDRA staff is evidenced
 by the permanent positions they have subsequently been awarded, including tenured academic
 positions in the universities of York (Bale), Edinburgh, Herriot-Watt, Hull, Plymouth,
 Wolverhampton, Leeds Trinity, and in industry including Seagate Technology, AECOM,
 Fraunhofer, Sony, Xperi/DTS, Meridian and the BBC.

 Training and Supervision of PGR Students
 Since REF2014, we have awarded 143 PhD degrees. Oversight of training, supervision and
 support for PGR students is provided by the York Graduate Research School (YGRS) (IES, 30)
 and all Departmental initiatives governing PGR students align with YGRS Policy on Research
 Degrees (IES, 31-34). The quality of our PGR graduates and of our PGR programme is reflected
 in their subsequent high-profile positions in academia, including at the University of Surrey, Aalto
 University, the University of Swansea and Imperial College London and in industry including
 Sony, Fraunhofer, Xperi/DTS, Meridian and Quiagen. We also support outstanding PhD
 students to apply for independent fellowships e.g. Amelia Gully was awarded a British Academy
 Fellowship held at the University of York.

 Admissions:
 PGR recruitment and admissions are led by the Department in collaboration with the YGRS. All
 candidates are invited to interview and this assessment feeds into the final selection made by a
 recruitment panel assembled from senior academics. Recruitment is informed primarily by
 student quality and alignment to areas of research strength ensuring students are embedded in
 a supportive group with well-defined leadership. We have diversified funding for PhD students
 and since REF2014 have trained students using funding from UKRI, (EPSRC, AHRC, NC3Rs),
 the EU, Industry (including Google, Roke Manor, Huawei, SELEX Galileo Ltd, BBC R&D, DTS
 Licensing Ltd, Meridian Audio), international scholarships (Mexico, China and Nigeria through
 the Nigerian petroleum industry), charities (Holbeck Charitable Trust) and Department/University
 funding. We have also supervised interdisciplinary PhD studentships for example by engaging in
 the Wellcome DTP CIDCATS.


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Supervision and progress monitoring:
 To ensure quality PhD supervision and support, all new staff receive training in PGR student
 supervision through courses delivered by the RETT and the PGCAP programme. Staff
 supervising their first PhD student are supported by an experienced member of academic staff
 who act as academic co-supervisor. All PhD students within the Department are supported and
 evaluated by a Thesis Advisory Panel (TAP) consisting of at least two academic staff in addition
 to the primary supervisor. The TAP meets the student every 6 months to assess progress,
 identify training needs and provide an opportunity for students to independently assess
 supervision arrangements. The Department created and pioneered the use of Skillsforge to
 record and archive supervision meetings, progress reports and training plans. Skillsforge is now
 in use across 12 universities in the UK. Formal examination by viva voce examination with an
 independent examiner occurs at months 12 and 24 which includes a review of the thesis plan
 and exemplar publication.

 Professional skills training and career development:
 The Department runs an annual two-day PhD conference attended by academic staff, PDRAs,
 PGR students and representatives from industry. All first year PGR students deliver a 3-minute
 thesis presentation, second year PGR’s present a poster supported by a 3-minute ‘flash’
 presentation while third year students deliver a 15-minute conference paper. Students are
 guaranteed Departmental funding to attend at least one international conference. Career advice
 and training in transferrable and specialist skills are provided by the RETT including courses
 focussed on career planning, research management and public engagement. RETT also
 delivers the York Learning and Teaching Award (YLTA) which is a bespoke, Masters-level
 programme to provide professional development and support for graduate teaching assistants.

 Equality and Diversity
 EE operates transparent approaches to recruitment, promotion, allocation of duties and
 nomination to senior Departmental and University positions. We ensure that Departmental
 business, including scheduling of committee and research group meetings and timetabling of
 teaching commitments are sensitive to staff with children or caring responsibilities and are
 compatible with flexible working arrangements. The Departmental Equality and Diversity
 Committee has established a policy, guided by the University strategy (IES, 21, 35-37), to
 promote best practice in equitable representation and experience across all 9 protected
 characteristics. The Committee, which includes broad representation (academic staff, PDRAs
 and PGRs), monitors all departmental activities through a comprehensive set of measures. We
 recognise the importance of equal participation of women at all levels in a subject that has
 traditionally been, and remains, male-dominated. The Department has engaged with the Athena
 SWAN charter since 2008, through its Athena SWAN Working group, and achieved the Bronze
 award in 2012, renewed in 2017. We established and continue to support the student-run society
 Supporting Women in Engineering at York (SWEY) and have established a female support
 officer to offer support and advice to our female PGR students. Equality and diversity is reflected
 in all Departmental activity. For example, in compliance with the University Code of Practice, our
 submissions to REF2 and REF3 were informed by excellence and an equality impact
 assessment considering age, disability, ethnicity and gender. Similarly, in 2019 Kearney and
 Murphy were co-chairs for the Audio Engineering Society’s (AES) International Conference on
 Immersive and Interactive Audio, that helped to promote best practice in equality, diversity and
 inclusion, including double blind reviewing, use of preferred gender pronouns, and gender
 balanced paper, panel, and keynote sessions. Kearney and Murphy received the AES
 Governors Awards for this event.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Income
 Through leadership, investment in staff and research infrastructure, and Departmental
 development activities, such as investment in our strategic application areas and the targeted
 sabbatical system, we have increased the number of grant applications submitted and the value
 of grants awarded, evidenced by a 20% increase in the research funding/ FTE compared to

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 REF2014 awarded across our strategic application areas to staff at all stages of their careers.
 The Department has remained successful in winning research funding from the EPSRC and
 during the assessment period, members of the Department have been PI and CoI on prestigious
 EPSRC Platform and Programme grants. We have also enhanced the scale of our
 interdisciplinarity research enabling us to diversify sources of funding, notably in the creative arts
 and in biological and biomedical sciences, reflected in grants awarded by AHRC, BBSRC and
 MRC. We have also continued to attract funding beyond UKRI, including European funding
 agencies, charitable, industrial and other external institutions. Noteworthy grants that
 demonstrate the diversity of funding include:

 UKRI:
 Halliday, Self-repairing Hardware Paradigms based on Astrocyte-neuron Models, EPSRC,
 EP/N007050/1, £683,915; Murphy, Creative Media Labs: Innovations in Screen Storytelling in
 the Age of Interactivity and Immersion (now XR Stories), AHRC, AH/S002839/1, £6,374,965, CoI
 on The Digital Creativity Hub, EPSRC, EP/M023265/1, £4,039,831; Mitchell & Zakharov, CoI
 on USMART - Smart dust for large scale underwater wireless sensing, EPSRC, EP/P017975/1,
 £1,284,429; Johnson, Sensors for clean water: A participatory approach to technology
 innovation, EPSRC GCRF, EP/P027571/1, £1,182,012, CoI on Biophysics of Infection and
 Immunity: From Molecules to Cells to Tissues, MRC Discovery award, MC_PC_15073,
 £679,802; Tyrrell, Autonomous Robot Evolution (ARE: Cradle to Grave, EPSRC,
 EP/R03561X/1, £1,012,141, Bio-inspired Adaptive Architectures and Systems, EPSRC Platform
 grant, EP/K040820/1, £919,337

 EU: Marie-Sklodowska-Curie Innovative Training Networks:
 Dawson, CoI on Pan-European Training, Research & Education Network On Electromagnetic
 Risk Management; Grace, CoI on SPOTLIGHT and CoI on Application-aware User-centric
 Programmable Architectures for 5G Multi-tenant Networks (5G-Aura).

 Charities:
 Chesmore, Automatic acoustic observatories: non-invasive long term monitoring of acoustic
 species, Leverhulme Trust, £310,933 (collaboration between EE and the departments of Biology
 and Environment & Geography); Murphy in collaboration with Dr Alex Southern from AECOM,
 Royal Society Industry Fellowship Scheme, IF130114; Smith, Pelah, Timmis, Royal Academy
 of Engineering Enterprise Fellowships.

 Industry:
 InnovateUK (7 projects worth £414k); Qinetiq/DSTL/Thales (worth total of £600k); DCMS 5G
 Testbeds and Trials (£434k), Huawei (three funded projects totalling £435); Google (£180k);
 HAS Ltd (232k); Orange £79k, Hikstor £199k

 Research facilities
 The Department houses state of the art infrastructure and associated technical support to
 underpin the excellence of our research, the aspirations of our research staff and a competitive
 advantage in the retention and recruitment of staff and students. Annual facility costs are
 recovered through access charges from grants, external users, industrial collaborators, and
 Departmental investment. We encourage the use of our facilities by internal and external
 collaborators and advertise high-value equipment on the N8 Shared Equipment Inventory
 (https://www.n8equipment.org.uk). Sustainability and enhancement of our facilities during the
 coming period has already been secured, for example through the Department’s participation in
 the Institute for Safe Autonomy and recent investment from the University to establish new
 infrastructure to support research and research-led teaching in areas beyond electronic
 engineering. Notable high-value facilities aligned with our strategic application areas include:
     1. Immersive and Interactive Technologies. The AudioLab supports research between
          engineering and the creative arts and houses three recording studios and an anechoic
          chamber. Each studio is equipped with the latest versions of leading Digital Audio
          Workstations and include HDTV screens for sound-to-picture work. The facility includes a
          50-channel spherical speaker array and motion-tracking cameras for VR-related work.

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         High-quality measurement microphones and audio-interfaces are also available for field
         work, along with 360-degree camera arrays for video & audio capture. XR Stories and
         the University are investing more than £1m to redevelop Kings Manor in the centre of
         York to support R&D and engagement with the immersive/interactive and screen (film,
         TV and games) industries.
    2.   Autonomous & Robotic Systems. The York Robotics Laboratory features a purpose-built
         90m^2, double height arena for ground-based and aerial robotic research. The lab is
         equipped with state-of-the-art tracking systems, a robot experiment arena and a
         workshop with full-time technical support. Specialised robotic laboratories have also been
         created, including the Autonomous Robotic Evolution laboratory and the Space Robotics
         and Autonomous Systems laboratory. Our success in the award of the flagship £35m UK
         UKRPIF Institute for Safe Autonomy will significantly extend our robotic facilities.
         Specifically, this will include dedicated laboratory space for the construction and
         evaluation of ground and aerial robotic platforms and water tanks for trialling of
         underwater robots.
    3.   Next Generation Electronic Devices & Materials. The Departmental Cleanroom houses
         equipment for the fabrication and characterisation of micro- and nanofabricated devices
         including spintronic devices and microfluidic devices for lab-on-chip applications. The
         interdisciplinary facility supports researchers from across the Faculty of Sciences and
         training for postgraduate and undergraduate students (typically 30/annum). Since
         REF2014, £500k of internal and external funds (e.g. JST-CREST JPMJCR17J5) has
         been invested to provide new capabilities and update equipment. The facility is
         supported by an experimental officer and two technicians (one 100% FTE, one 50%
         FTE). Microfabrication facilities include UHV molecular beam epitaxy for the deposition of
         novel spintronic materials complemented by equipment for the characterisation of
         spintronic materials and devices, including atomic force microscopy, magnetometers,
         cryogenic measurements and X-ray diffractometer.
    4.   Electronics for Healthcare. The Bio-Inspired Wetware laboratory, established in 2016
         following investment of £400k from internal and external funding (EP/M028127), supports
         research in healthcare technologies. This biosafety level 2 facility houses molecular
         characterization equipment including Raman and infrared spectroscopy, a quartz crystal
         microbalance, multiple research-grade potentiostats and bench space for sample
         preparation. The facility supports the research of ∼15 staff across the Faculty of
         Sciences and training for PGRs. The Department is also developing an animal cadaver
         laboratory for validation of robot-assisted surgical tools.
    5.   Communications for Challenging Environments. The Centre for High Altitude Platform
         Applications includes 21m^3 and 34m^3 tethered balloon/kite hybrids which are capable
         of deployments up to 400 m altitude for validation of novel communication protocols.
         Facilities to support our research in this strategic application area will be strengthened
         and extended through the Institute for Safe Autonomy which will include 100m^2 indoor
         laboratory space for HAP-related communication research, adjacent to an outdoor roof-
         based test space capable of launching Helikites. The building will also be equipped with
         a bespoke test pool providing one of the largest academic test facilities in the UK for the
         evaluation of underwater networks.

 We also benefit from access to other major facilities across the University, including the new
 HPC facilities (IES 41) and the York JEOL Nanocentre which contains a suite of electron
 microscopy systems, including ultra-high resolution TEM (recently upgraded with £3.2m from
 EPSRC matched by £1m from UoY and £250k in-kind support from 8 industry partners). The
 Department is a founding member of the Nanocentre and remains an active user and partner
 including winning internal funding (£350k) to support new capability, including a direct laser
 writer dedicated for rapid prototyping of microfluidic systems.

 Supporting impact
 Our ambition is to maximise impact across all research activities within the Department, which
 will be monitored and facilitated using alignment with a modified Technology Readiness Level
 (TRL) scale. It is recognised that impact can occur at all levels of the TRL scale ranging from

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 academic impact through technology demonstrators, to full working prototype, commercial
 exploitation and societal benefit.
    • The Departmental Impact Officer (DIO) has responsibility for monitoring and promoting
         impact activity within the Department in conjunction with Departmental Research
         Committee (DRC), the Department’s Research Support Team (DRT), the University’s
         Research and Enterprise Office (REO) and the Faculty Impact Manager (FIM) (IES, 49).
         Individual researchers are encouraged to consider impact at all levels: individual, group
         and departmental.
    • Research groups consider impact as part of their regular group meetings, to include a
         review of impact across the group, and develop an impact-informed and impact-led
         research ethos. The DIO assists with interactions between the REO, FIM and external
         bodies. At departmental level, impact is reviewed regularly through DRC which receives
         reports from group leaders on impact case studies and future impact opportunities e.g.,
         University allocated funding for impact and knowledge exchange (IES 50). The DRC also
         seeks assistance from the faculty marketing team to promote research, raise external
         visibility of research and its current and potential impact.
    • Researchers are encouraged to engage with national and international organisations,
         panels and professional societies in a range of research-centred activities such as
         establishing national and international standards, influencing policy and practice, and
         organising conferences, workshops and symposia (see section 4 for details).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaborations:
 The Department continues to make significant contributions to our discipline and, through our
 national and international collaborations, to the wider research base. For example, our research
 on spintronic materials and devices includes collaboration with academics from across the world,
 including many leading academic institutes, such as Tohoku University, Nanjing University,
 University of Cambridge, MIT, TU Kaiserslautern, and the Indian Institute of Science. More
 broadly, of the archival journal papers selected in support of our REF2021 submission, 70% are
 published with co-authors external to the University, with 50% including international
 collaborators.

 In addition to academic collaboration, our staff are also engaged in research collaborations that
 contribute to industry, cultural organisations and charities. For example, over the assessment
 period, 42% of our collaborative research projects have been performed in partnership with
 industrial organisations. This collaborative approach ensures a pipeline for translation of our
 core research leading to commercial implementation and societal impact and helps inform our
 research priorities, supported by our External Advisory Board (including members from IBM,
 Arm, BAE Systems and Eurofins).

 Our research in immersive and interactive technologies exemplifies how our research
 contributes to the economy and society. Academic research into Ambisonic based binaural
 surround sound for realistic soundfield creation and reproduction, developed as part of the
 EPSRC SADIE project (EP/M001210), were adopted by Google as part of their immersive VR
 pipeline, known as Google Resonance. This includes YouTube 360 as well as applications
 developed for Google cardboard and the Google Daydream VR headset (REF3). Millions of
 users worldwide who utilise Google’s VR platform use the York SADIE binaural filters, making
 them the new standard for spatial audio quality in VR productions. Other examples of strategic
 end-user collaborations include AECOM, Bang and Olufsen, BBC R&D, Arup, Sennheiser, BT,
 Orange, Huawei, JEOL, Thales, Dstl and Stratospheric Platforms.

 Aligned with our culture of open research, the Department strongly supports public engagement
 in research and hosts a range of annual outreach events aimed at engaging young people in
 STEM subjects e.g., UKESF Summer School, IET Faraday Challenge, and EDT INSPIRE
 summer schools. Other examples of outreach activity include York Talks (Murphy 2015,
 Johnson 2018, Daffern 2020), Deer Shed Festival 2017, Lakes Alive Festival 2018 (Daffern)

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 YorNight 2020 (Cumanan), York Festival of Ideas 2016 (Kearney), Voice and Vote,
 Westminster Hall 2018 (Murphy). Parkinson’s UK patient groups 2016 (Smith).

 EE currently hosts 16 visitors/ honorary fellows who have elected to spend sabbatical leave
 within the Department to undertake collaborative research. These include visitors from national
 and international academic institutes, e.g., Michihiro Ohta (National Institute of Advanced
 Industrial Science and Technology, Japan), Prof Gusz Eiben (Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam) and
 Prof. Rodrigo De Lamare (Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro). We also encourage
 honorary fellowship applications from beyond academia that align with our research strengths
 e.g., Alex Southern from AECOM, supported by a Royal Society Industry Fellowship (IF130114)
 and Prof Kevin Steptoe from Palma CEIA Semidesign.

 Interdisciplinary research:
 The Department is distinctive in the contribution of our research across traditional disciplinary
 interfaces, particularly in relation to research aligned with Electronics for Healthcare and
 Immersive and Interactive Technologies. This is exemplified by the collaborations that EE has
 established across all three Faculties at York (Sciences, Arts and Humanities, and Social
 Sciences), our membership of the York Biomedical Research Institute (IES 45), and by the 30%
 of our REF outputs flagged as interdisciplinary. Notable examples of our interdisciplinary
 research include:

 Digital and Creative arts:
 EE has a long-standing track record of collaboration with researchers and end-users in the
 creative arts. For example, XR Stories (Murphy) supports research and development for
 companies working in digital technologies across the Yorkshire and Humber region. This impact-
 led project funded by EPSRC, AHRC and InnovateUK, is a collaboration between EE and the
 departments of Computer Science, Archaeology, Theatre, Film Television and Interactive Media,
 Sociology and Education, alongside non-academic partners including Screen Yorkshire and the
 British Film Institute. Other examples include collaboration with the Royal College of Music and
 the departments of Psychology and Environment and Geography at York to investigate the
 health and wellbeing benefits of group singing in virtual reality (Daffern, AH/R009139/1, REF3))
 and the Listening to the Commons project (Murphy, AH/P012094/1), a collaboration with the
 Department of History and the UK Parliament to generate 3D visual and acoustic models of the
 historic Commons.

 Biological, Biomedical and Healthcare:
 The Department has expanded activity with researchers and end-users in medicine/biology. For
 example, underpinned by our expertise in medical applications of biologically-inspired
 algorithms, we are now collaborating with biologists to address fundamental biological questions
 including understanding the molecular basis of Parkinson’s disease through classification of
 movement disorders in Zebra fish models and tracking and classification of cells within in vitro
 cell cultures (Smith). With colleagues in the departments of Biology, Physics, Chemistry and
 Health Sciences, and with end-users at the York Teaching Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, we
 have developed a range of technologies for detection of disease biomarkers in vitro, (Johnson,
 EP/P02324X/1, EP/P030017/1). We have extended these collaborations to include Stockholm
 Environment Institute at York, Oxfam and the Government of Vanuatu to translate this
 technology for water quality monitoring in low and middle income countries (EP/P027571/1).

 Academic Leadership:
 As a research-intensive Department that nurtures current and future academic leaders,
 engagement with the wider community is central to the activity of our staff. For example,
 Hirohata is currently Secretary/ Treasurer and President-Elect (starting 2021) of the IEEE
 Magnetics Society, Grace has been recognised by Ericsson, as one of 25 '5G Trailblazers',
 Everard was selected to be the IEEE Distinguished Microwave Lecturer 2018–2020 and
 Howard was elected a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering (2016).
    • Journal editorial roles. Exemplars include Tyrrell: Editor in Chief IET Proceedings –
        Computers and Digital Techniques, Associate Editor for BioSystems (Elsevier), IEEE

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Transactions on Evolutionary Computation, IEEE Transactions on Cognitive and
        Developmental Systems. Hirohata: Journal of Physics D: Applied Physics, Frontiers in
        Condensed Matter Physics, Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials (Elsevier). Hu:
        IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, IET Renewable Power Generation, IET
        Intelligent Transport Systems. Mitchell: IET Wireless Sensor Systems, IET Wireless
        Sensor Systems. Tempesti: Genetic Programming and Evolvable Machines. Avrutin:
        Optical and Quantum Electronics (Springer). All members of staff regularly provide peer
        review for international journals, including major journals such as Nature, Nature Physics,
        Nature Communications, and IEEE publications.
    •   Conference committee roles. Staff play a leading role in conference organisation,
        examples include: Hirohata Co-Chair of European Congress and Exhibition on
        Advanced Materials and Processes (2019), International Conference on Magnetism
        (2018), 8th Joint European Magnetics Symposia (2016). Murphy Chair of Audio
        Engineering Society International Conferences on Audio for Games (2015 & 2016), Co-
        Chair Audio Engineering Society International Conference on Immersive and Interactive
        Audio (2019). Avrutin Programme committee of the IEEE International Semiconductor
        Laser Conference (2016 & 2018). Kearney Co-Chair Audio Engineering Society US
        Convention (2017, 2018, 2019 & 2020). Tyrrell Co-General Programme Chairman for
        the 10th International Workshop on Information Processing in Cells and Tissues (2015),
        Technical Chair for IEEE CEC (part of IEEE WCCI 2020), Co-Chair for IEEE International
        Conference on Evolvable Systems: From Biology to Hardware (2015, 2016, 2018 &
        2020). Smith Chair GECCO Workshop on Medical Applications of Genetic and
        Evolutionary Computing (2014-2019).
    •   Invited talks. Our academic leadership is exemplified by invites to present at leading
        international conferences. Examples include Mitchell, Plenary speaker, ACM
        International Conference on Underwater Networks & Systems (2019); Ko Keynote
        speaker, IEEE Int. Conf. on ICT Convergence (2018); Hu, Keynote speaker, International
        Conference on Energy, Resources, Environment and Sustainable Development (2019);
        Murphy, Invited speaker, South by Southwest (2020); Tempesti, Plenary speaker, 22nd
        International Conference on System Theory, Control and Computing (2018); Burr,
        Keynote speaker, International Conference on Emerging Technologies of Information
        and Communications (2019); Dawson, Invited speaker, IEEE EMC Society Meeting
        (2016); Hirohata, Invited speaker, International Magnetics Conference (2015 & 2017);
        Tyrrell Invited speaker, 2nd Resiliency Workshop (2019).
    •   Departmental spin outs. Four companies have been spun-out from the Department;
        ClearSky Medical Diagnostics (Smith, clearskymd.com), ngenics Global UK (Tyrrell,
        ngenics.com), Simomics (Timmis, simomics.com) and Asuuta Ltd. (Pelah).
    •   Research review committee roles. UKRI (EPSRC, BBSRC, Royal Society, Royal
        Academy of Engineering, Leverhulme), European Research council, and international
        governmental and research organisations (e.g. Toshiba Fellowships, German Research
        Foundation, Foundation Ireland, Agency for Science, Technology and Research
        Singapore, Foundation for Polish Science, Austrian Science Fund, FONDECYT,
        Academy of Finland).




                                                                                           Page 15
