Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Lincoln

 Unit of Assessment: 27 English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Context and Structure
 This submission comprises staff from three of the six schools in the College of Arts, the majority
 from English and Journalism, others representing Fine and Performing Arts and History and
 Heritage (see institutional Environment Statement). The size of the UoA has
 expanded significantly, from 11 to 19.7 FTE, since our first submission, in REF2014. There has
 been a resulting step change in output quality, PGR completions, and research income,
 reflecting dedicated investment across the census period. Research within the UoA has also
 extended chronologically and diversified, now spanning the medieval to the contemporary
 period, with particular strengths continuing and/or emerging in nineteenth- and twenty-first-
 century writing, American and Gothic literature, drama, and creative writing.

 The University’s Strategic Plan emphasizes the academic freedom of individual researchers to
 choose their field of research, while encouraging the alignment of research around specific
 themes. In UoA 27, research coheres around the Nineteenth-Century, Twenty-First-Century and
 Medieval Studies Research Groups, but colleagues also research in the early modern period, the
 eighteenth and the twentieth centuries. Most researchers belong to one or more of the main
 research groupings, all of which attract an interdisciplinary membership and remit and run
 designated programmes of research seminars, at which external and internal speakers (including
 PGRs) present papers. The Twenty-First-Century Research Group combines researchers
 in English, Film and Media, Performing Arts and some from Social Science and Science. The
 Nineteenth-Century Research Group and the Medieval Studies Research group facilitate
 research collaborations around English and History and Heritage, supporting research
 bids (external and internal) and impact-generating initiatives. The School-based English research
 seminar also features external and internal speakers, including PGRs. This seminar ensures that
 all researchers working across the historical and disciplinary span of the UoA can participate fully
 in our research culture.

 The UoA benefits from the work of the University’s Eleanor Glanville Centre (EGC), an
 interdisciplinary Centre focusing on inclusion, diversity, and equality across
 all Colleges, supporting the Athena Swan, Gender and Race Equality Charters and disseminating
 best practice. The Centre, led by an interdisciplinary team of Senior Academics from across the
 institution (including Armitt as Director for the Arts), combines equality mandates and innovation
 with interdisciplinary research and scholarly activities, embedding and developing a more
 inclusive culture within the core business of the University. Research on gender is strongly
 represented in this submission: Armitt, Crossley, Culley, Dows, Hawthorn, Marlow and Styler all
 utilize gender-based methodologies in their research, Crossley and Culley focusing on gender
 and ageing. Walker, one of our PGR students, organized the EGC’s inaugural international
 residential conference ‘Interdisciplinary Approaches to Intersex’ in July 2019 (see 2.3 below).

 1.2. Achievement of Research Strategy
 In the REF2014 submission, three areas were prioritised for development:
 i) ‘expand the number of PGR students…and enhance the current [PGR] skills provision on offer
 at Lincoln;
 ii) [develop] a new Centre for 21st Century Research…for new interdisciplinary and multi-
 institutional collaborative projects…;
 iii) [Prioritize] grant capture…for English over the next five years…include[ing] targeting specific
 funding bodies: AHRC, British Academy, Leverhulme, among others

 We have succeeded in meeting all three aims:
  i.   PGR registrations at the 2020 census date had increased from 5 (in 2014) to 27 and our
       PGR completions increased from 1 (in REF2014) to 9. This significant transformation
       has been achieved through the appointment of senior research staff alongside

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          the implementation of a bespoke, subject-specific English Doctoral Training Programme,
          which runs over a two-year rolling cycle;
     ii.  While retaining the title C21st Research Group (not Centre), strategic research-active
          lecturing appointments in twenty-first-century literature (Hawthorn, Shaw, Sloane) have
          grown the research base in this key area. Since 2014, it has attracted more than £50,000
          in research income and has been the focal point for three international conferences. The
          national significance of this group is reflected in the role its staff and profile played in the
          formation of the British Association for Contemporary Literary Studies (BACLS).
          The biennial international conference series ‘What Happens Now’ (WHN), founded
          and hosted at Lincoln 2010-2016, has now been adopted as the title of BACLS’s biennial
          conference. An annual ‘Lincoln Lecture’ is planned as part of this recurring event, in
          recognition of Lincoln’s influential role;
 iii) Staff in all research fields have been encouraged to apply to a wider range of funders,
 including charities and library fellowships, an increased emphasis being placed on
 interdisciplinary bids. This bidding activity is closely supported at School, College and University
 levels. Consequently, our external grant income has grown dramatically, from £6,429 to
 £166,625, an increase of 2492% during the census period. Major funding has come from
 the AHRC, Andrew W. Mellon Fund and British Academy/Leverhulme.

 1.3. Achievement of Impact Strategy
 Impact has been central to the UoA’s strategic planning throughout the current REF cycle. As
 part of the Individual Research Planning (IRP) process (section 2.2), all staff are strongly
 encouraged to develop impact profiles, individual and collaborative, to extend the reach and
 significance of our research, public engagement and resulting impact. An Impact Lead (Brewster)
 provides advice and support for ICS authors and staff developing emergent case
 studies. In September 2016, Armitt organized an Impact Day for researchers in English,
 with Professor Catherine Clarke (University of London) and Professor
 Matthew Grenby (University of Newcastle) acting as external advisors at the
 event. The UoA subsequently appointed Professor Clarke as an Advisor on our Impact
 strategy. At University level, impact is supported by the Lincoln Impact Literacy Institute (LILI) and
 by the Director of Research Impact Development, who advises ICS authors and provides funding
 for evidence and data collection. To engage new audiences beyond the
 academy, staff authoring ICSs (Armitt, Brewster, Culley and Jones) have been part of
 successful University applications to the AHRC/British Academy ‘Being Human: A Festival of the
 Humanities’ in 2016 and 2019, and/or drew on funding from the Public Engagement for All with
 Research and Lincoln (PEARL) programme, jointly funded by UKRI. ICSs are complemented by
 an expanding range of impact and public engagement activities, including Armitt’s work with
 Professor Mark Macklin (Geography) on a PEARL-funded interdisciplinary public engagement
 project, ‘My River’ and Clayton’s work with homeless charities and organizations.

 The Gothic is one of the hubs around which our Impact focuses. In 2014, Armitt was an
 invited consultant on twentieth-century Gothic for the British Library’s major Exhibition ‘Terror
 and Wonder: The Gothic Imagination’ (2014-2015), which attracted 64,460 public visitors.
 Armitt and Brewster later gave a joint lecture connected with the exhibition at a BL public study
 day (2014), attended by over 100 people. Our Gothic research has also generated Impact
 through a series of local community events engaging schoolchildren and the public, including ‘A
 Lincoln Ghost Story’ (2017), ‘Frankenstein at 200’ (2018), and ‘Haunted’ (2019), the latter
 forming part of the Being Human Festival hub at Lincoln (see Section 4.2 below).

 The community engagement aspect of our research has also benefited theatres,
 cultural organizations and charitable bodies. ‘A Lincoln Ghost Story’ and ‘Frankenstein at
 200’ benefited the local economy in being held at the White Hart Hotel and Lincoln Drill Hall
 respectively. Building on Lincoln’s medieval heritage, Ward organized Medieval Week in Lincoln
 in 2018 and 2019, featuring guest speakers from the US and Germany and workshops with local
 artisans on making medieval manuscripts and tiles. Our research on aging has enabled us to
 build sustained and ongoing collaborative partnerships with charitable
 organizations regionally and beyond. Lincoln Older Readers’ 21st Century Literature Book

                                                                                                    Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Group was established in 2014, by Adiseshiah, Culley, and Woolley in collaboration with Age UK
 Lincoln and in consultation with Excellent Ageing Lincolnshire. It began as a £4782 pilot project
 funded by the University’s Research Investment Fund (RIF). Book group members are local
 Lincolnshire residents outside Higher Education over the age of 60. Sessions have been
 convened by Armitt, Brewster, Crossley, Culley, Hawthorn, Jones, Marlow, Shaw,
 Sloane, Stovell, Ward, Whittaker and Woolley as well as five PGRs (Bevan, Day,
 Parker, Rowcroft and Walker). In June 2018, furthering our ongoing commitment to the career
 development of our PGRs, Walker became co-convener of the group. The Older Readers’ Group
 has inspired further activities that generate educational, social and cultural benefits for this
 demographic. In 2016, Adiseshiah and Culley organized ‘The Good Age: Long Life, Literature
 and Utopianism’ as part of the Being Human Festival. This event comprised a workshop on
 utopian societies involving members of the public aged over 60, and a talk by Dame Penelope
 Lively on her memoir about ageing. In 2016 and 2017, Adiseshiah and
 Culley ran reading group events with older readers on the twenty-first-century short story as part
 of LiGHTS, the European Commission-funded Marie Curie festival of research intended to
 engage wider publics.


 1.4. Research Strategy for the next 5 years
 Over the next five years, all strategic advances in English will accord with the
 University’s overarching strategy to support lone-scholar and collaborative research and
 colleagues will, as appropriate, enhance existing collaborations via the University’s
 six research inter-disciplinary themes: Rurality, Health and Well-Being, Sustainability,
 Digitalization, Communities and Heritage. Our key priority is to produce ‘purposeful research with
 impact’ by maintaining our existing focus on critical and creative research that is socially
 engaged and which has regional and international relevance. To achieve our aims, we will:

 1. Consolidate our strengths in twenty-first-century and nineteenth-century literature and culture,
 the medieval and early modern periods, and the Gothic. To help diversify and strengthen our
 existing EDI profile, we plan to appoint a new Senior Lecturer in Global Literatures in English. Our
 current research groupings (Twenty-First-Century, Nineteenth-Century and Medieval Studies)
 will remain the focal point for our research, publications, funding applications and impact, as well
 as providing a forum for the dissemination of new research by staff and PGRs.
 2. Capitalize further on our significant growth in Creative Writing research, across all three
 main genres. A new Creative Writing research group will form the collaborative hub for writing
 practitioners within this UoA and across the College of Arts.
 3. Increase by 25% our already substantially increased external research income since January
 2014. Existing success with small research schemes will be augmented by larger numbers of
 follow-up grant applications to major funding streams, Culley’s British Academy Mid-Career
 Fellowship providing an instructive model. The collaborations enabled by our research
 groups will target the AHRC and other funders’ Networking schemes. Specific IRP mentoring will
 be undertaken with ECRs to target the ECR strands of the Research Grants and Leadership
 Fellows schemes. Following recent successes with external bids to library fellowship schemes,
 we will increase bidding to these income strands over the coming years.
 4. Build on our PGR success by increasing completions by 50% and growing PGR recruitment in
 Creative Writing. We are starting to explore externally funded studentships via the AHRC CDP
 scheme, working in collaboration with partner organizations such as the BL and the V&A. Three
 applications are currently in development, on Victorian ephemera (Crossley),
 vagrancy (Clayton), and women’s life writing (Culley).
 5. Further develop our current international collaborations, including Clayton’s
 interdisciplinary work on T-Bone Slim, Shaw’s research on ‘Brexlit’ and Ward’s The Worlds of
 Arthur project.

 1.5 Impact Strategy for the next 5 years
 Our strategic priority in the next census period will be to enhance further the breadth and depth
 of our impact activities. Our aims are:


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1. To develop further the impact potential of our research on late eighteenth- and nineteenth-
 century literatures and cultures, and its continued relevance to a range of audiences, agencies,
 cultural organizations and creative practitioners, particularly through the work of Armitt, Brewster
 and Jones on the Gothic, Culley and Crossley on ageing and gender and Whittaker on
 the public reception of Blake.
 2. To build the public policy implications of our research, through new ventures such as Armitt
 on women and social narratives of fear, Clayton on vagrancy, Culley on ageing and Shaw
 on Brexlit. These interdisciplinary initiatives link to the UKRI Global Challenge Research Fund
 (GCRF) priorities, including health, wellbeing, poverty and inequality.
 3. To further enhance our existing success in training and involving our PGRs in impact and
 public engagement, expanding the model established since 2014 (see section 4.2, ‘Audiences’).
 The emphasis we already place on this area has resulted in two former PGRs (Poland and
 Harvey) having, post-completion, secured full-time posts in this field at other HEIs, one as an
 Impact Officer and the other as a Public Engagement Advisor.
 4. To expand our work with local and regional organizations and heritage resources, such as
 Lincoln Cathedral, the Tennyson archive, the Lincoln Book Festival and the National Civil War
 Centre, Newark.

 1.6. Approach to Interdisciplinary Research
 Researchers in this UoA engage with several of the contemporary challenges identified in the
 AHRC’s Delivery Plan 2019, which demands ‘arts and humanities thinking’: an ageing population
 (Crossley, Culley, Styler), wellbeing (Armitt, Culley), homelessness (Clayton) and environmental
 change (Armitt, Brewster, Hawthorn). Staff have forged a range of internal and
 external interdisciplinary collaborations since 2014, connected to under-represented groups and
 public policy development. These resulted in two successful bids (by Clayton and Culley
 respectively) to the BA Conference Fund in 2019.

 Clayton’s BA funded three-day interdisciplinary ‘Representing Homelessness’ conference took
 place at Lincoln in 2019. Delegates included formerly homeless people, artists,
 charities, campaigners and journalists, exploring the representation
 of homelessness in newspapers, television, government policy and the law. Culley, with
 colleagues at the Universities of Loughborough and Keele, ran the BA funded ‘Narratives of Old
 Age and Gender’ at the British Academy, London. This two-day
 interdisciplinary event explored ageing masculinity and femininity from the early modern period to
 the present, and brought together international and UK scholars from multiple disciplines,
 creative practitioners, and third sector organizations, including Age UK.

 Additionally, Crossley, Culley and Styler organized the ‘Narratives of Ageing in the Nineteenth
 Century’ conference at Lincoln in July 2019, funded by the Lincoln Institute for Advanced
 Studies (LIAS). Attended by scholars from the humanities and social sciences, the conference
 addressed the representation of ageing across the life course in a variety of media, forms, and
 genres. Armitt’s involvement with Geography colleagues in the ‘My River’ project, exploring
 community narratives about the River Witham and its tributaries in response to climate
 change, demonstrates the unit’s commitment to collaborations across the full disciplinary
 range and to impact with public policy potential.

 1.7. Progress towards Open Research Environment
 English at Lincoln is committed to the policy of Open Access and the University is a signatory to
 the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (see institutional Environment
 Statement for the University’s policies and procedures, including the Open Data Working
 Group). English has demonstrated a distinctive and ongoing commitment to Open Access
 dissemination of research. The UoA has benefitted from Eve’s pioneering initiative in co-
 founding the Open Library of Humanities, securing US$90,000 from the Andrew W. Mellon
 foundation to support this development (2014). Eve was also founding co-editor of the Open
 Access journal Alluvium: 21st Century Writing, one of the first of its kind. The UoA has built on
 this work throughout the census period. Staff act as peer reviewers for the Open Library of
 Humanities (Brewster, Clayton, Shaw), and Rowcroft (PGR) edited a special issue

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for the OLH (2017-.). English also has a close association with C21 Literature: Journal of 21st-
 century Writings, the journal of the BACLS Subject Association, published under a Creative
 Commons licence. Shaw, a founding member of BACLS, is a current Editor of C21 and Marlow is
 Reviews Editor. Brewster is an Editorial Board member of the open access journal Gothic
 Nature and Cheshire published an article on open access monographs and the humanities
 for Insights: the UKSG Journal (2014).

 1.8 Support for Research Integrity
 The UoA’s approach to research integrity is governed by the Concordat to Support Research
 Integrity and the University’s Code of Practice for Research (see institutional Environment
 Statement). The University instituted a new ethical approval procedure in 2018, overseen by
 the University’s Research Ethics Committee. All research projects undertaken by staff or PGR
 students require the completion and acknowledgement of a Project Registration Form (including
 for desk-based research and review of published literature) and, where
 relevant, a favourable opinion from a University or external ethical review committee. Staff and
 students within the School receive advice and support from an Ethics Lead trained in the approval
 of ethics applications (Brewster). Brewster also serves on the College Research Ethics sub-
 committee and the University Research Ethics Committee.

 The School Director of Research (DoR) and the Research and Enterprise team ensure all grant
 applications in the UoA adhere to the legal and ethical requirements of the award-making body,
 including proper governance and transparency. PGR students and their supervisors review
 ethical aspects of students’ research annually. Staff have access to training in issues connected
 to research misconduct, governed by the University’s application of the UKRIO Procedure for the
 Investigation of Misconduct of Research. The University publishes an annual Misconduct
 Statement.


 2. People
 2.1. Staffing strategy
 There are 19.7 FTE academic staff returned in REF2021, compared to 11 in REF2014. During the
 current census period, staffing and recruitment policy has blended strategic
 development with consolidation. Twelve research-active permanent staff have been
 employed since 2014: Brewster, Crossley, Hawthorn,
 Shaw, Sloane and Whittaker, enhancing strengths in Romantic, Victorian, American, Gothic and
 contemporary literature. Creative writing has been an area of substantial growth and new
 appointments (Dows, Healy, Mankowski, Pantano and Stovell) enhancing practice-led research in
 poetry, prose and drama. The appointment in medieval Literature (Ward) was a strategic
 investment to expand our chronological coverage, exploit archival resources in the city of Lincoln
 and build collaborative opportunities with medievalists in UoA 28. This staffing strategy has seen
 the addition of one Professor (Whittaker), one Associate Professor (Brewster) and three Senior
 Lecturers (Crossley, Shaw, Ward) to increase capacity and expertise. Styler has been promoted
 to Associate Professor during the census period.

 2.2. Staff development
 The UoA is committed fully to the provisions of the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers (see institutional Environment statement). No staff on fixed
 term/ atypical contacts have been returned in the UoA. Staff are supported in their career
 progression through twelve-month probation (in their first year) or appraisal (in subsequent
 years) to facilitate objective setting and identify research resources required. The University
 runs workshops on the promotions process and staff are encouraged to participate in the
 University’s Pipeline Inclusive Mentoring Programme (see institutional Environment statement).

 At School level, all staff returned in the UoA have one day a week set aside for research and
 impact activities, with the possibility of further workload allowance to support the development of
 major research or impact projects. Training on aspects of research is available at University
 level. Research and impact support is a central element of

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the School’s development of ECRs. ECRs benefit from reduced teaching loads, protection from
 major administrative roles, and regular one-to-one research and impact mentoring. Early
 opportunities are available for ECRs to deliver seminar papers, facilitating swift integration into
 English’s research culture.

 Staff (including fractional staff) can apply competitively for internally funded research leave,
 operated at College level, every three academic years (accelerated to enable completion of
 major contracted outputs, or to supplement externally funded periods of leave). Applications are
 judged according to clearly outlined criteria, with emphasis on completion of research and impact
 projects. The School DoR advises on the drafting of research leave applications, and staff are
 encouraged to link applications to external research bids. Since 2014, twelve members of
 this UoA have been awarded internally funded periods of research leave.

 IRP meetings are conducted annually by senior research staff and contribute directly to strategic
 research and REF planning. This process feeds into annual Academic
 Appraisal, enabling research and impact activities to be considered alongside teaching and
 administration in setting annual objectives and workload planning. These meetings are
 supplemented by regular mentoring by the School DoR and UoA co-ordinators. Developmental
 support for research bidding is underpinned by a robust peer review system organized within the
 College of Arts. The DoR provides research guidance and support to new staff during
 probation. Mentoring and informal peer review is provided for internal research bids,
 including to the College-level Research Resources Allocation Fund (RRAF) scheme
 and LIAS (see section 3.2), to develop expertise in external funding applications.

 Priority has been given to widening staff experience in areas of research leadership, including
 involving mid-career staff (Culley) in internal research assessments and peer reviewing funding
 applications. ECRs (Hawthorn, Sloane) are increasingly involved in organizing research groups
 and seminar series, developing leadership and project management skills. We have increased,
 exponentially, the inclusion of ECRs in PGR supervisory teams and progress panels,
 thus building capacity to expand PGR recruitment, training and completion rates into the next
 REF.

 2.3. Support for PGR students
 PGR recruitment and completions has been a key success-story for English. Since REF2014,
 English has had a dramatic increase in the recruitment, training and completion numbers of
 PGRs, recruiting 27 new PGRs (compared with 4 for REF2014), and having 9 successful
 completions (1 for REF2014). English made successful bids to RIF in 2014 and 2015 for two fully-
 funded studentships covering 3.5 years’ full tuition fees. The first (Bevan 2014) was awarded in
 the field of Gothic tourism and completed in 2018; the second (Day 2015) was awarded in the
 field of contemporary women’s writing and completed in 2018, both within the funded period.
 PGRs in English benefit from a two-year subject-specific bespoke training programme (see
 below). Our PGR students are ambitious, active and accomplished, and form a vibrant, supportive
 and energetic research community. Two of our successful completions, Rowcroft and Bevan,
 have secured monograph contracts with Routledge and University of Wales Press
 respectively. One current PGR, Walker, has secured a contract with Routledge for a volume of
 essays (see below).

 The College of Arts administers a designated PGR version of the RRAF, to which PGRs in
 English submit frequent, high-quality bids. The fund is competitive and our PGRs have a high
 success rate. Since 2014, PGRs in English have secured at total of £7794 of RRAF funding to
 present at overseas events in Leiden and Vancouver (Bevan), Gdansk, Lisbon and Tarragona
 (Day), Calgary (Poland), Munster and Osnabruck (Rowcroft), and Lewis University, Illinois, San
 Jose and Huntingdon Library, Los Angeles (Bryan). They have secured 5 externally
 funded competitive travel bursaries to attend national and international conferences,
 via: the Association for the Study of Literature and the Environment UK & Ireland (ASLE) (Poland
 2017), the British Association for Romantic Studies (BARS) Stephen Copley award (Bryan 2018),
 the British Society for Literature and Science (Rowcroft 2018) and the Santander travel

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 bursary scheme (Bryan 2018, Rowcroft 2017). Rowcroft went on to win the British Association for
 American Studies Public Engagement and Impact Award (2019).

 Five PGRs have organized academic conferences and public engagement events at
 Lincoln. Rowcroft hosted What’s Left? Marxism, Literature, and Culture in the 21st Century (July
 2016); Poland and Bevan co-organized the ASLE-UKI postgraduate conference, ‘A Change of
 (S)cene: Reviewing our Place in a New Geological Epoch’ (August 2016); Poland was PI
 for the ‘Ever Yours: Tennyson in Somersby’ exhibition, awarded £500 from Heritage Lottery
 Fund (2015), while Bryan was co-organizer, with Armitt and Jones, of ‘Frankenstein at
 200’ (2018). Walker was lead organizer of the EGC’s Inaugural Conference, ‘Interdisciplinary
 Approaches to Intersex’ (July 2019), a ground-breaking international three-
 day conference attracting activists, artists, medical
 practitioners, academics and writers. Walker has now secured a contract with Routledge for an
 edited volume of essays, based on this event.

 Our PGRs have held positions of postgraduate research management responsibility within the
 University. Day was Founding Chair of the Executive Committee of the University of Lincoln’s
 Women in Academia Postgraduate Research Group (committed to
 research into diversity, intersectionality and access within academia) and Walker is Student
 Representative on the EGC Executive Committee. Externally, Bryan is Communications Fellow
 for the Keats-Shelley Association of America and curated a blog series for BARS. Poland
 was membership Secretary of ASLE and Membership Secretary to The Tennyson Society; she
 has since become co-editor of Gothic Nature.

 The rigorous monitoring of PGR progress, through annual monitoring, Confirmation
 of Studies and the MPhil to PhD Transfer
 Panel, has facilitated our strong completion rates. The English Doctoral Training Programme comp
 rises 12 sessions over two years, including ‘How to conduct archival research’, ‘Publishing a
 Journal Article’, ‘How to Write a Literature Review’, ‘How to Prepare for your Viva’, ‘Editing a
 Collection or Special Issue’, ‘Applying for Library Fellowships’, augmented by others tailored
 specifically to needs identified by the cohort itself. English PGRs also attend a
 generic programme of doctoral training sessions run by the College of Arts (such as ‘How to
 Organize a Successful Academic Event’) and University-wide events organized by The Doctoral
 School (such as ‘Life Beyond the PhD’). Some hourly-paid undergraduate teaching is made
 available to PGRs, and training and mentoring sessions for PGRs undertaking teaching is
 provided by module co-ordinators and by Armitt (line manager for Associate Lecturers in English
 and Creative Writing).

 2.4 Equality, diversity and inclusion
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion is at the forefront of research in this UoA; we are fully aware of
 the need to be more racially diverse and inclusive as a strategic priority across the next census
 period (see section 1.4). Reflecting our research strengths in gender and women’s writing, our
 statistics are better than the University average, though not yet at 50%. 44.2% of this submission
 comprises female staff (University average is 36.6%) and 55.8% male (University average
 63.4%). Two of the five Professor/ Associate Professor staff members are female (Armitt, Styler),
 with 50% female/male at Professorial level (Armitt and Whittaker). In terms of our Age Profile, we
 are a young team in comparison with the University and sector averages (30.3% of the
 submission are 34 years or younger, compared to a University average 23.6% and sector
 average 17.2%). This youthful age profile reflects the fact that the University has developed its
 research exponentially since REF2014 and English has met that opportunity
 by recruiting ambitious researchers at Lecturer/Senior Lecturer level to drive forward change. At
 the other end of the age profile, the comparatively lower number of 50–65 year olds (24.4% in the
 submission compared to a University average of 28.8% and sector average of 32.7%) reflects
 that commitment to bringing on, mentoring and training junior research colleagues rather
 than buy in high-profile stars on preferential research deals. Our priority now is to diversify the
 racial and ethnic profile of our research base. The new Senior Lectureship in Global
 Literatures will initiate that process, although additional steps will prove essential across the

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 next census period. Armitt and Shaw are members of the College-wide EDI Committee, which is
 engaged directly in addressing the racial and ethnic diversity of staff and student recruitment
 and developing a project to Decolonize the Curriculum.

 Before 2017, EDI was overseen by the University’s Equality and Diversity Committee, of which
 Armitt was a serving member (2014-2017). In March 2017, the EGC was launched as
 the University’s Centre for Equality, Diversity and Inclusion and Armitt is a founding Director
 (Arts) (see section 1.1). The EGC runs monthly meetings to support Schools preparing Gender
 Equality Charter and Race Equality Charter applications. Armitt is College of Arts Lead for
 applications to the Gender Equality Charter. The School of English and Journalism is currently
 preparing its application for a Bronze Award, which is due for submission in November 2021.

 All staff members undertake mandatory equality and diversity training, organized at University
 level and REF UoA co-ordinators follow designated EDI training as part of their REF
 preparations. Armitt serves on the University Gender-Based Violence Taskforce,
 and has participated in two EGC initiatives, a Gender Research Roundtable (June 2019) and the
 ‘Lincoln Inclusivity and Diversity Annual Conference’ (February 2020), focusing on the Race
 Equality Charter. Armitt is Pipeline Mentor to a colleague in the School of Film and Media and
 Aurora Leadership Foundation mentor for a colleague in the School of Social and Political
 Sciences. In 2019-20, Armitt was an Advisory Board member to the Contemporary Women’s
 Writing Association’s (CWWA) project, ‘De-Colonizing Feminism’, a partnership project funded
 by UKRI GCRF, with colleagues at the Universities of Brighton, Delhi Institute of Technology,
 Forman Christian College, Lahore, Liverpool John Moores and Teesside. The project resulted
 in the ‘Beyond Western Eyes: South East Asian Women’s Writing in Contemporary Contexts’
 symposium, held at Liverpool John Moores University (June 2019).

 This UoA’s submission, including the selection of outputs, has been governed by the University’s
 REF Code of Practice. EDI was at the heart of this process and Equality Impact Assessments
 (EIAs) occurred annually, 2018-20, according to the University’s REF procedures. Potential EDI
 issues were identified and addressed, including any disparities affecting the inclusion of outputs
 for staff with protected characteristics. All members of staff involved in constructing the
 English REF submission received specific EDI and unconscious bias training. Selection of staff
 outputs for inclusion was subject to a rigorous process involving both an internal panel with an
 independent Chair (located in another College in the University), and external assessment. Staff
 were encouraged to declare individual circumstances that might affect their submission through
 a confidential procedure. Two colleagues in the UoA27 submission took Maternity leave during
 the current REF cycle.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Since 1 January 2014, English has attracted £166,625 in external research income, compared
 to £6,429 in REF2014. Major awards include £94,000 for Culley’s ‘Narratives of Old Age:
 Women’s Late Life Writing 1800-1850’ project (BA Mid-Career Fellowship, 2020); £42,000 for
 Eve’s Open Library of the Humanities project (Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, 2014-15); £20,000
 for Armitt’s Contemporary Women’s Writing ECR and PGR Collaborative
 Skills Training Programme (AHRC, 2014). Other successful bids include £5,000 BA Conference
 grant (Clayton 2018), £5,000 from the BA/Leverhulme Small Research Grant scheme (Culley
 2015-16), Newberry and William P. Heidrich Library Fellowships (Clayton 2018, 2019), and the
 Paul Mellon Fund (Cheshire, 2016). These smaller awards enabled Clayton to develop a
 monograph project on vagrancy in American literature, from which an ICS for the next REF is
 likely to emerge. Culley’s BA/ Leverhulme SRG award laid the foundations for her successful bid
 to the BA Mid-Career Fellowship scheme and underpinned the development of her ICS ‘The
 Good Age’. Shaw secured Santander Mobility funding to support conference attendance.

 At College level, dedicated support for bids is provided by the College DoR and
 the College Business Development Manager. One-to-one support linked to scheme
 guidelines, costings and highlight funding notices is provided by College Research Officers. The

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University Research and Enterprise Office offers regular training events and facilitates meetings
 between researchers and representatives from various funding bodies, including the AHRC and
 British Academy. The College has also offered bid-writing workshops for the BA Small Research
 Grants scheme, resulting in two successful applications in this UoA. Culley’s work on women’s life
 writing and ageing and Clayton’s research on vagrancy have also benefitted from external
 competitive funding linked to major UK and international archives, facilitating research visits
 to Chawton House, the Bodleian Library, the Wellcome Trust (Culley), and the Newberry Library,
 Chicago (Clayton).


 3.2. Infrastructure and Facilities
 At School level, staff planning external research applications are supported by the School DoR,
 senior colleagues and staff with previous bidding success. Staff complete an Intention to Submit
 form for peer review at least 12 weeks before submission, and a College-level peer review
 system ensures that all bids in development receive appropriate guidance and support.

 Dedicated research support is available through RRAF. This competitive scheme, managed at
 College level, supports national and international conference travel and attendance, archival
 visits, and travel for research networking purposes. All staff are encouraged to apply,
 and submissions are supported by School DoRs. Since 2014, a higher volume of competitive
 applications to the scheme has enhanced bidding expertise. The UoA has secured over £19,000
 from RRAF since 2014, with successful bids from Armitt, Brewster, Clayton, Culley, Hawthorn,
 Shaw, Styler and Ward. Among other activity, these awards have enabled speakers
 to attend the American Comparative Literature Association conference in Georgetown,
 Washington’ the American Society of Eighteenth-Century Studies Conference in Los Angeles; the
 Universities of Leiden, Mainz, and the Working-Class Association conference in New York State.
 RRAF funding has also supported archival research visits to the BL, the Gladstone Library and
 the New York Public Library. Oher internal funds awarded Culley £4,700 from RIF to support
 her work with older readers, while College of Arts Impact funding has enabled Armitt,
 Brewster, Culley and Jones to develop their Case Studies by supporting evidence gathering and
 data collection.

 English has also been successful with applications to LIAS, which supports interdisciplinary
 research and the establishment and reinforcement of international academic links through
 incoming international fellowships and outgoing research
 visits. These awards have supported research collaborations and networking, generated research
 outputs, and fostered public engagement and Impact-generating activities. Crossley and
 Culley secured a LIAS International Visiting Fellowship (2019) that brought
 Professor Devoney Looser (Arizona State University) to give a public lecture and keynote at the
 international ‘Narratives of Ageing in the Nineteenth Century’ conference (Lincoln, July 2019).
 Professor Looser also led a session (with Culley) of the Older Readers’ C21 Book
 group. Clayton received a LIAS Mobility Award in 2018.

 Research support from the University of Lincoln Library includes a dedicated
 academic Subject Librarian, the library’s ‘More Books’ scheme, established to support the
 purchase of source material for research, and unlimited interlibrary loans (see institutional
 Environment Statement). Staff have access to invaluable local research resources, including
 Lincoln Cathedral’s two main libraries, the Medieval Library and the Wren Library,
 which made the development of medieval literary research a priority for
 English after REF2014 and led to Ward’s appointment in 2017. The Tennyson Research Centre
 Collection, owned by Lincolnshire County Council and housed in Lincolnshire
 Archives, supports research on nineteenth-century literature and culture undertaken by Cheshire,
 Clayton, Crossley, Styler and their PGR students; two PGRs (Harvey and Poland) volunteered
 part-time in the Centre archives.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.1. Research Collaborations, networks and partnerships
 The UoA has active, strategic and executive involvement in a wide range of scholarly research
 networks and associations at national and international level, much of it interdisciplinary in
 nature.

 The Twenty-First-Century Research Group reflects the significant and impactful research on
 contemporary literature carried out by English staff at Lincoln and has been a springboard
 for the ‘What Happens Now’ (WHN) conference series, formerly hosted at Lincoln and now taken
 up by the BACLS Subject association (see 1.2 above), of which Shaw is a current Executive
 Committee member. Other events hosted include ‘Court and Spark: An International Symposium
 on the work of Joni Mitchell and ‘Shamefaced’, an event held at Lincoln Drill Hall as part of the
 Emporium of Dangerous Ideas festival (Charnock, 2015).

 Members of the Nineteenth-Century Research Group have organized a range of conferences,
 including ‘Narratives of Ageing in the Nineteenth Century’ (Crossley, Culley and Styler
 2019), and a Tennyson conference at Bishop Grosseteste University (2017). ‘Rethinking Early
 Photography’ (Cheshire, Clayton and Field 2015) built upon Clayton’s monograph Literature and
 Photography in Transition, 1850-1915 (2014) and led to Clayton and Cheshire editing
 ‘Photography and Networks’, a special issue of History and Photography, in 2017. Nineteenth-
 Century group members are also part of the Executive Committee (Cheshire) and Publications
 Board (Clayton 2016-18) of the Tennyson Society, and are actively involved with a number
 of international scholarly bodies (BAVS, BARS, and British Society for Eighteenth-Century
 Studies).

 Beyond research group collaborations, Armitt was a founding Executive Steering Group member
 of the Contemporary Women’s Writing Association (CWWA), and a founding Associate Editor of
 its award-winning journal, Contemporary Women’s Writing (OUP) until 2014, now an Advisory
 Board Member. Her AHRC-funded Collaborative Skills ECR and PGR Contemporary Women’s
 Writing Training Programme ran in conjunction with CWWA. At the English Shared Futures
 Conference (University of Newcastle, July 2017) Armitt ran an ECR/PGR training session for
 CWWA researchers on how to write a monograph proposal. Brewster was a National Council
 member (2014-16) of the British Association of Irish Studies (BAIS), for which he chaired the
 PGR Bursaries Committee in 2014. Now a member of the BAIS Advisory Council (2018-),
 he acted as a judge for the BAIS Monograph Prize in 2019. Crossley is an Executive member of
 the British Association of Victorian Studies (BAVS) and was elected Secretary in 2019; in
 2017 she co-organized the Association’s conference, the largest event for Victorianists in Britain.
 Crossley is also an Executive Committee member of the Midlands Interdisciplinary Victorian
 Studies Seminar. Ward leads the seminar series for the Medieval Studies Research Group,
 which has fostered a number of collaborative research and public engagement opportunities and
 incorporates Medieval Week as part of its activities. Ward also organized a conference session
 on ‘Monstrous Medievalism’ at the International Medieval Congress, University of Leeds (July
 2018).


 4.2. Relationships with users, beneficiaries and society

 Beneficiaries
 The UoA has established a number of external partnerships and collaborations beyond the
 academy. Clayton’s research on the first successful street newspaper, the Hobo News, which
 campaigned against US vagrancy laws, has appeared in The Big Issue and he is working with
 the charity Crisis to repeal the still-extant 1824 British Vagrancy Act. His research on the hobo
 writer and musician T-Bone Slim appeared in a podcast in September 2019 and was part of a
 documentary (2020) featuring the musician Billy Bragg. Clayton has helped Slim’s relatives to
 rediscover a forgotten family member, and archival material he uncovered inspired Slim’s great-
 grandnephew to create an album of Slim’s unrecorded songs (2020). Clayton is also part of an Art
 Lab run by the homelessness and arts organisation WithOneVoice, which includes homeless
 people, charities and the Gulbenkian Foundation.

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Culley has been working with Age UK, Lincoln since 2014. The Lincoln Older Readers’
 21st Century Literature Book Group was established following a focus group with Age UK
 members, and in consultation with Age UK and Excellent Ageing,
 Lincolnshire. Contributions made by our PGRs were identified by participants as a beneficial
 opportunity to connect with ‘another generation’. The BA-funded conference ‘Narratives of Old
 Age and Gender’ (see section 1.6) concluded with a roundtable involving representatives from
 Age UK and the National Pensioners Convention; delegates from U3A, Open Age,
 and RepresentAge also attended. The findings were disseminated to members of the National
 Pensioners Convention and Culley was invited to provide comments as part of the BA’s response
 to the House of Lords’ Science and Technology Committee ‘Ageing: Science, Technology and
 Healthy Living’ Inquiry (September 2019).

 Staff are actively involved with the cultural industries, including publishers, theatres, writing
 networks and arts organizations. Cheshire has acted as Historical Consultant for the National
 Lottery Heritage Fund and for Lincoln Conservation; Culley is Editorial consultant for the
 ‘Women’s Language and Experience, 1500-1940’ digitization project with Adam Matthew Digital
 (2018–.); Marlow has worked with the National Civil War Centre in Newark and Ward has acted
 as consultant for Templar Publishing on an illustrated volume for children. Dows has
 an ongoing creative partnership with Warhammer (part of Games Workshop), focusing on gender
 equality in the Warhammer 40K Universe. Healy is Literary Manager of the Finborough
 Theatre, London and founded and runs the Finborough Forum, at which playwrights are
 addressed by key industry speakers. She is a board member of The Playwrights’
 Studio, London. Staff contribute to the programming and delivery of the Lincoln Book
 Festival: Brewster and Styler were involved in planning the Gothic-themed Festival in
 2017, while Mankowski and Cherrell (PGR) are current members of the Festival committee (2019-
 ). These arts-led engagements in the region have strengthened Lincoln’s profile as a civic
 University.

 Audiences
 Research within the UoA has reached diverse audiences through public engagement
 events, lectures and presentations, and media appearances. Dame Penelope Lively’s talk at the
 Being Human Festival (Culley 2016) attracted an audience of 125; in 2019 (Brewster,
 Jones), public performances of ghost stories drew a combined audience of 90. Brewster’s
 interview with Diane Setterfield at the 2017 Lincoln Book Festival attracted an audience of 60; ‘A
 Lincoln Ghost Story’ at the White Hart Inn (Brewster, Jones, Bevan and Poland
 [PGRS], 2017), was attended by 120 people; ‘Frankenstein at 200’ at the Lincoln Drill Hall (Armitt,
 Jones, Bryan [PGR], 2018) attracted 55 people; and a public talk in July
 2019 by Professor Devoney Looser (Arizona State University), organized by Culley, had 46 in
 attendance.

 Staff have also engaged schoolchildren with their research. The audience for ‘Frankenstein at
 200’ included a cohort of A-Level students from Kesteven and Sleaford High School, while
 a Gothic Fiction masterclass run by Brewster, Styler and Poland (PGR), linked to the Lincoln
 Book Festival 2017, involved thirty GSCE and A-Level students. As part of
 this Festival, Cherrell (PGR) ran a Gothic flash fiction competition for local schoolchildren aged
 10-17, attracting over 300 entries.

 Staff have given talks to local institutions, national bodies and learned societies, such as the
 British Federation of Women Graduates (Culley), the Gaskell Society and the Leicester Secular
 Society (Styler), the Historical Association, Lincoln Branch and the Louth Naturalists’ Antiquarian
 and Literary Society (Crossley), and the Newcastle Centre for Lifelong Learning
 (Mankowski). Creative writers within this UoA appear regularly at festivals and events,
 including ‘Warhammer World’ and ‘Black Library Live’ conventions organized by Games
 Workshop (Dows), while Mankowski featured on an author panel at the Press Writing
 Festival (2018). Pantano was a featured poet at the European Poetry Festival in London (April
 2019), and part of a reading tour of Swiss poets organized by the BBC and European Literature

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Network and funded by the Swiss Arts Council (April 2019). Pantano also performed at
 the 2016 Solothurner Literaturtage, Solothurn, Switzerland. Stovell was a panel member
 at Newcastle Noir Festival and Bristol Crimefest (May 2019). Staff have also appeared on national
 and international media outlets, including BBC World Service (Whittaker), German National
 Radio (Charnock), RTE Lyric, Ireland (Culley), BBC Radio Newcastle and Tyne and Wear
 television (Mankowski), and Siren Radio (Brewster, Ward, Whittaker), as well as
 contributing articles to Open Democracy, The Big Issue and The New
 Statesman (Clayton), Times Higher Education (Shaw) and the Times Literary
 Supplement (Cheshire).

 4.3. Wider Contributions to research base
 Members of the UoA make significant contributions to advisory boards, award and appointment
 committees, nationally and internationally. Staff have refereed research applications to national
 and international funding bodies: Armitt was Peer Assessor for two ‘Visiting Professor’ grant
 applications to the Leverhulme Trust (2016 and 2017) and a RITA External Peer Reviewer for
 Edge Hill University (2017); Cheshire has served on the National Archives ‘Archives Revealed’
 grant panel since 2017; Culley was Peer Reviewer for a grant application to the Austrian Science
 Fund (2016). Staff have served as PhD External Examiners at the Universities of
 Durham, Exeter, Nottingham, Queensland Australia, UNISA in South Africa (twice), South Wales
 and Swansea (Armitt); University of Glasgow and Manchester Metropolitan
 University (Brewster), Birkbeck, University of London (Culley), University of Leicester
 (Dows), University of Huddersfield (Stovell). At M.Phil and M. Res level, staff have been External
 Examiners at Huddersfield (Armitt), Leicester (Culley), Oxford Brookes University and University
 of Ulster (Brewster). Armitt was also External Assessor on a PhD Progression Panel at
 University of Hertfordshire.

 Members of the UoA have editorial and advisory roles with journals and
 publishers. Culley is Editor of the ‘Women’s Life Writing’ Section for the Palgrave Encyclopedia of
 Romantic-Era Women's Writing (2019-2020); Shaw is an Editor of C21 Literature; Styler is Editor
 of The Gaskell Journal; Ward is Co-Editor of The Year’s Work in Medievalism and Marlow
 is Reviews Editor for C21: Journal of 21st-century Writings. Armitt is Advisory Board member
 of Contemporary Women’s Writing (2014-) and Extrapolations (2014--). Staff are editorial board
 members of Gothic Nature (Brewster), Journal of William Morris Studies (Cheshire), Journal of
 Adaptation for Film and Performance (Marlow) and Brill’s ‘Explorations in Medieval
 Studies’ series (Ward, Associate Editor 2014 -2017). Clayton was a member of the Publication
 Board of the Tennyson Society (2016-2018). Healy is Regional Editor (Ireland)
 of TheTheatreTimes.com, an international online publication of theatre criticism, while Pantano is
 Translations Editor for Black Lawrence Press (New York). As further indications of peer esteem,
 Clayton was awarded a Newberry Library Fellowship (2018) and a William P. Heidrich Research
 Fellowship (2019), Culley was a Chawton House Fellow (2014), and Whittaker was Visiting
 Professor at University of Lisbon (2016-2018).

 Creative Writing staff have secured a number of awards and fellowships. Healy’s awards include:
 the BBC Radio 4’s Opening Lines Winning Short Story Award (2015), the Grants for the Arts
 bursary from Arts Council England, the Peggy Ramsay Foundation playwriting grant (2016),
 the Claremorris Fringe New Writing Award, the Francis W Reckitt Arts Trust grant and Heinrich
 Boll bursary (2017), the MGC Futures Playwriting Bursary (2018), the Hawthornden Castle
 Fellowship and the John Hodgson Theatre Research Trust award (2020). Mankowski was
 awarded an Arts Council Research and Development Grant and a Northern Film and Media
 Development award (2015); his novel An Honest Deceit was selected as a Read Regional Title
 by New Writing North in 2018. Pantano was awarded the Max Geilinger Translation Grant
 ($2000) by the Swiss government. Members of the UoA have also been shortlisted for the
 BBC Writersroom, BBC Radio Play International Award, Old Vic 12 Programme and Shoreline
 International Screenplay Award (Healy) and the Crimefest E-Dunnit award
 (Stovell). Pantano’s Selected Poems has been translated into French, Slovenian, Farsi and
 Kurdish, while Stovell’s novel Exquisite has been translated into Dutch, French, German and
 Swedish, and was an e-book bestseller in the UK.

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 English staff have acted as peer reviewers for: the Journal of British Studies (Culley), C21
 Literature: Journal of 21st-century Writings (Charnock, Shaw), Children’s Literature
 Quarterly (Ward), Christianity and Literature (Styler), Comparative Literature
 Studies (Shaw), Contemporary Women’s Writing (Armitt, Brewster, Shaw), Journal for
 Eighteenth-Century Studies (Culley), European Journal of Life Writing (Culley), The Feminist
 Review (Charnock), Journal of Gender Studies (Culley), History of Photography (Clayton), Irish
 Studies Review and Irish University Review (Brewster), Life Writing (Styler), Literature
 Compass (Culley), Medieval Feminist Forum (Ward), Nineteenth-Century Contexts: An
 Interdisciplinary Journal (Clayton, Culley), Open Library of Humanities (Brewster, Clayton,
 Shaw), Preternature: Critical and Historical Studies on the Preternatural and Review of English
 Studies (Ward), Tennyson Research Bulletin (Cheshire), Tulsa Studies in Women’s
 Literature (Styler), Journal of Victorian Culture (Cheshire, Styler), Victorian Periodical
 Review (Styler), Women: A Cultural Review (Armitt) and The Year’s Work in
 Medievalism (Brewster). Staff have peer reviewed for book publishers. including Bloomsbury
 (Clayton, Culley, Styler), Cambridge University Press (Crossley, Styler), Manchester University
 Press (Cheshire, Shaw, Sloane), Open Book Publishers (Cheshire), Palgrave Macmillan
 (Clayton, Culley, Shaw, Styler, Ward), Routledge (Armitt, Culley, Sloane, Ward) and University of
 Wales Press (Armitt).

 Armitt has served as Independent Assessor of Promotion Applications (Professor and Reader)
 for the Universities of Arizona (2019), Boulder, Colorado (2019), Huddersfield (2018), Cardiff
 (2015) and Teesside (2015). Brewster was Chair of BAIS Postgraduate Bursaries
 committee in 2014 and a judge for the BAIS book prize in 2019. Pantano was a judge for the Best
 Translated Book Award, Open Letter Press and University of Rochester, New York.

 Since 2014, staff have delivered keynote lectures at the Universities of Brighton and Stirling
 (Armitt), Translation House Looren, Zurich, Switzerland and Bern University of the Arts,
 Switzerland (Pantano), the Universities of Goettingen and Stuttgart, Germany and Manchester
 Metropolitan and Northumbria (Shaw) and the University of Lisbon (Whittaker). Invited
 research papers have been delivered at the Universities of Nijmegen (Brewster); Georgetown,
 Washington and Humboldt Network, Lübeck, Germany (Shaw); Brock University,
 Canada and Düsseldorf (Ward). In the UK, invited lectures and papers have been delivered at
 the British Library (Armitt and Brewster); University of Chichester (Culley); Derby Theatre
 (Hudson); the Gaskell Society, Manchester and London (Styler); Harlaxton College (Crossley);
 Universities of Hertfordshire (Armitt) and Huddersfield (Armitt, Brewster); the Institute of
 Contemporary Arts (Hudson, Woolley); the Universities of Keele (Culley, Shaw) and Lancaster
 (Crossley); Leicester Secular Society (Styler); the British Federation of Women
 Graduates (Culley); the Universities of London (Culley, Shaw), Manchester Metropolitan
 (Brewster, Culley), Nottingham and Nottingham Trent (Culley); the Palace of Westminster and
 University of Portsmouth (Cheshire); Queen Mary, University of London and Dr Williams’s
 Library (Culley); John Rylands Library (Whittaker), the University of Stirling (Armitt), Warwick
 (Styler) and Wolfson College, Oxford (Cheshire).




                                                                                           Page 13
