Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Bournemouth University

 Unit of Assessment: 11 – Computer Science and Informatics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit context and structure
 Computer Science and Informatics research at Bournemouth University (BU) is driven by 46
 academic staff including 8 professors and associate professors. Our research is structured across
 six topics or ‘research clusters’ underpinning our current success and future research and impact
 strategies:
    •   Cyber Security
    •   AI and Data Science
    •   Human Computer Interaction
    •   Social Informatics and Software Engineering
    •   Computer Networking
    •   Games Technology
 The emergence of these groupings was guided by the overall aim to grow the Unit and by the
 sustained effort to build critical mass around areas of research strength as part of the Unit’s
 strategy. The goal of stimulating the grouping is to enhance the productivity as well as the internal
 and external visibility. In addition, a number of interdisciplinary areas have emerged over the years
 such as: medical robotics, telecare/telehealth, behavioural change, aging and dementia,
 visualisation and graphics, game development, and big data, which have all enabled UoA11’s
 researchers to collaborate with others in various faculties and research groups across the
 university.

 Computer science and informatics research is conducted mainly by two departments: Department
 of Computing and Informatics (CI) and the Department of Creative Technology (CT). Whilst most
 of the staff in these departments are returned in UoA11, the interdisciplinary nature of our research
 has led to some departmental research being submitted to other units such as UoA32 (Art and
 Design: History, Practice and Theory). One staff member from the Design Department contributes
 to UoA11 as his work is related to assistive technologies using AI, illustrating the cross-cutting
 interdisciplinary nature of the research undertaken across three departments.
 The breakdown of our submission by cluster is as follows:
                         Cyber Security                                 16%
                         AI and Data Science                            33%
                         Human Computer Interaction                     18%
                         Social Informatics and Software Engineering    10%
                         Computer Networking                            13%
                         Games Technology                                9%

 In 2014, UoA11 was not returned to REF. Instead, the few Computer Science staff from both CT
 and CI were returned in UoA15 (General Engineering). Among the objectives in this REF period
 (please see below), the main one, as a first step towards laying the foundation of a strong and
 vibrant Unit, was to focus more on changing the research culture and improving the research
 environment given the young age and history of the Unit at BU. The Unit has achieved this
 objective.
 During 2014-2021 this Unit facilitated substantial growth of research in related subject areas,
 supported diversification of research activities, catalysed exchange among individual specialisms
 and radiated the impact to a wide spectrum of industry. Key achievements include:




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research active staff – We supported more than a three-fold increase in the number of staff
 actively undertaking independent research to 45.75 FTE (see section 2).
 Research income: We diversified research income sources (see section 3) with total research
 funding income increasing by 289% from £1.1M in REF2014 (Computer Science proportion) to
 £4.3M in REF2021, with substantial increases in particular to contract research (689%), open
 competitive research (179.04%), KTPs (115.18%), and match funding studentship by industry
 (50%). The average annual income has increased by 61% from £382K in REF2014 to £615K in
 this period.
 Societal Impact: We collaborated with a large number of industrial partners (circa. 500) which led
 to over 120 successful collaborative research projects to facilitate knowledge exchange and
 generate direct impact to the related industrial sectors.
 Research output: We supported staff to publish research with the number of research publications
 increased by a ratio of 69%, encompassing different venues (top journals, conferences, books
 and book chapters) (see section 4).
 Research students: We have increased PhD registrations by 20% with completions rising by 247%
 from 14.71 in REF2014 to 51 in REF2021.

                                       Growth over REF Periods
        60

        50

        40

        30

        20

        10

        0
                  FTE Submitted                   PGR Completions                  Income (£100K)

                                  REF 2014 (Computer Science portion)   REF 2021


 Figure 1. Comparison between REF2014 and REF2021 submission

 This submission outlines the Unit's research and impact strategy, highlights the achievement
 towards establishing Computer Science as a REF-returnable discipline at BU and consolidates
 the excellence of work the team have done over the current REF period.


 1.2 Research and Impact Strategy
 Our purpose at BU is to inspire learning, advance knowledge and enrich society. We stress the
 importance of societally relevant research alongside continuing excellence - our research
 influences our curriculum and is passed on to industry through engagement with practice. In this
 context our Unit’s strategy is to continue with established approaches but with a more explicit
 focus on innovation and engaging productively with societal challenges.

 The Unit’s research and impact strategy has been developed alongside the institutional strategies
 of BU2018 and BU2025 (See REF5a). We have made strategical investment to broaden our
 research specialisms in order to address societal challenges and to inspire staff/PGRs to embrace
 innovation. The strategy spans the following key dimensions:
    •    Establishing a vibrant and sustainable research environment

                                                                                                    Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     •   Ensuring development and support for researchers
     •   Developing an effective and productive research structure
     •   Increasing and diversifying the research income
     •   Enhancing the quality of research output
     •   Increasing registration and completion of PhDs

 In line with these dimensions, a number of strategic objectives and associated key performance
 indicators (KPIs) are monitored regularly with the aim of improving performance. Our strategic
 objectives will continue to 2025 to ensure sustainability whilst enabling critical reflection about
 them if needed.
 Building on our research strengths, we have used the following integrated research and impact
 objectives (O1-4) to transform our research environment over the REF period:


 O1 - Scientific excellence and sustainable growth:
 Computer science at BU is driven by the aim of producing high quality research in line with the Fusion
 principles adopted in 2011 and the university strategic plans BU2018 and BU2025 (see REF5a). In
 addition to education and professional practice, all staff members have to enhance their research
 output and grow their internationally excellent and world-leading research. To enable that, the CI and
 CT departments went through restructuring leading to more organised research themes and teams
 and to the creation of a new “Deputy Head of Department” role, to specifically support the research
 activity within the departments. A number of appointments have been made including: 11 lecturers, 3
 senior lecturers, 1 associate professor, 2 principal academics and 2 professors. Moreover, a number
 of promotions to professor have been made (4). In this REF period the Unit’s staff published: 357
 journal papers, 24 books and proceedings, 70 chapters in books, 772 conference and workshop
 papers, 7 patents; an increase of 69% compared to the REF2014 period indicating a good breadth of
 research base.
 As a result of this strategic objective and various support mechanisms we have supported a more
 than three-fold increase in the number of staff actively undertaking independent research to 45.75
 FTE.


 O2 - Stimulate interdisciplinary research towards key societal challenges:
 Given the versatility of computer science research, the Unit has always encouraged interdisciplinary
 research to tackle real-world problems. The Unit strategy consists of: i) disseminating our research
 internally at BU and externally in formal and informal forums before researchers in other disciplines, ii)
 engaging in applied research (that is usually relevant for interdisciplinary work), iii) sharing information
 about interdisciplinary funding calls and governmental strategies in various sectors among different
 cohorts of staff, iv) foster collaboration between interdisciplinary researchers around BU strategic
 investment areas. Strategically, BU provides various training opportunities covering inter-and
 multidisciplinary research by inviting experts and organising workshops for this purpose. The Unit
 advertises such meetings, targeting very specific staff members (those who are less active and ECR
 members) to take advantage of cross-discipline networking. The Unit has capitalised on these
 initiatives and as a result of this effort, a number of interdisciplinary areas have emerged over the
 recent years such as: medical robotics, telecare/telehealth, behavioural change, aging and dementia,
 visualisation and graphics, game development, and big data, which have all enabled UoA11’s
 researchers to collaborate with others in various faculties and research groups across the university.
 As a result of this the Unit has witnessed a noticeable progress in terms of interdisciplinary and
 multidisciplinary collaboration.

 Key interdisciplinary initiatives driven to tackle key societal challenges are:
             a. Medical robotics (Dubey, Vaughan and 2 other staff) merging virtual reality and
                robotics to develop two simulators: a virtual engineering-based hip model (winning
                the IET Innovation Award 2016) and Patient-specific Epidural Simulator for
                Training.


                                                                                                      Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
            b. Digital addiction (Ali, McAlaney and 5 other staff) bringing together researchers
               from Psychology, Marketing, Software Engineering and Data Science
               https://research.bournemouth.ac.uk/project/erogamb/.
            c. Design of Smart Environments (Bouchachia, Dogan and 4 other staff) resulting in
               the establishment of a new international workshop (Workshop on Human Centred
               Design for Intelligent Environments) as part of the British Human Computer
               Interaction Conference.


 A number of interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary publications have resulted from cross-domain
 partnership and collaboration as shown in the figure below:




 Figure 2. Disciplinary spread of the unit’s journal articles indexed in Scopus. SciVal®
 database, Elsevier B.V., http://www.scival.com (downloaded in November 2020)

 These figures illustrate the split of topics covered by UoA11, particularly the interdisciplinary and
 multidisciplinary nature of its research.

 O3 – Embedding research impact:
 One of BU’s UoA11’s strategy has been to foster a strong development of impact in its own right, as
 this is the first time that BU is submitting a UoA11 to the REF exercise. In order to embed the culture
 of impact within the Unit, which is integral to UoA11 at BU, we endeavour to make sure that the Unit
 research is framed by the needs of industry, ultimately being applied for the benefit of the economy
 and society. This strategy has been shaped by BU2018 and BU2025 strategic plans, which focus on
 societally relevant research and the Fusion of research, education and practice. Where research has
 the potential for commercial development, researchers are encouraged to: i) develop follow-up of R&D
 projects, ii) prospect match-funding of PhD students to see impact within the remit of the sponsors’
 activities (especially companies) and iii) call on the help of companies to commercialise the results
 generated by UoA11 research where relevant. Beyond this, pathways to impact mechanisms include:
 consultancy, public engagement activities (e.g. Festival of Learning, invited talks, Research Blog, Café
 Scientifique, Pint of Science), as well as developing thematic areas for applied research around
 Cybersecurity, Engineering of Social Informatics, Data Science and e-Health.

 As part of BU’s strategy to drive impact forward, a number of internal streams have been put in
 place in order to pump-prime impact-driven initiatives, such as Fusion funding, HEIF funding, and

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 impact case funding. These streams have supported the submitted impact and other emerging
 cases as well as PhD projects (Dogan’s on HCI for Smart WheelChair), the Digital Addiction
 initiative which has a rich outreach program (Ali et al.) and the ethical penetration testing (Faily).
 One of the main types of impact has been the change in process and technology, through the
 adoption of research results in the form of direct software provision or licensing (e.g., Energy
 Technology Institute (ETI), Bouchachia; ArcelorMittal, Bouchachia), or through take-up of our
 published research results to generate new technology. Over the reporting period, our research
 has been characterised by a combination of high-quality research impacting onto various types of
 beneficiaries: vendors of technology, non-profit organisations and well-being agenda, user
 communities, as well as policy makers. The research conducted by the Unit researchers is highly
 inter-disciplinary involving: computing (wide range of sub-disciplines), psychology, law, norms and
 ethics, medical and social care, business and marketing, as well as entertainment and well-being.
 The range and scope of the impact cases presented within UoA11 demonstrate a varied range of
 impact across economic impact and wealth creation, health and social care impact, policy change,
 as well as societal impact and well-being agenda.

 As indicated in Section 1.1 above, our current and future research strategy is focused on delivering
 impact. As a community of computer scientists, this is fundamental to the philosophy of our work.
 We are developing tools for various organisations such as: Dorset Clinical Commissioning Group,
 ArcelorMittal, ETI, etc. to build on our guiding belief and respond to the needs of industry and
 society to maximise the impact of our research.

 We have established courses delivered by the university’s Staff Development Programme, e.g.
 social media for research, networking and engagement, developing business cases, training on
 developing pathways to impact (Grant academy, KTP awareness, Briefing by Experts, Research
 Development & Support department (RDS)’s initiative on impact and evidence collection). We
 have invited industry and charities to be part of the research as collaborators and also as
 exploiters, e.g. Streetscene, Poole DAAT, YADAS, NHS, Bournemouth Hospital, Bournemouth-
 Christchurch-Poole council, BEIS (Government Department for Business, Energy and Industrial
 Strategy), and a wide range of SMEs in the Dorset area (e.g., JP Morgan, BAE Systems, Wessex
 Internet).

 We have also been working closely with RDS and marketing to efficiently and creatively
 disseminate our research outcome and access different users’ and exploiters’ groups, especially
 considering that a good segment of our research relates to public interest (e.g., e-Health, Digital
 Addiction, and Engineering of Social Informatics). We also distribute in different languages (which
 is rarely the case of other universities) and in different formats, not only written articles, e.g.
 Animation, Cartoons, Videos (Faily’s Undergraduate Research Assistantship is a good example).

 We ensure that our state-of-the-art facilities, which are developed / customized / extended based
 on our research, is available to external users for testing and feasibility studies, e.g. Police, NHS,
 etc.

 We also provide an approach which facilitates an open source and publicly available research
 outcome is easily accessible for both research and industrial purposes. We are developing apps
 and social platforms within this remit, e.g. the Crowdsourcing Configuration, the Digital Addiction
 Stats and Dashboard, etc. Our recognition as contributors to the knowledge transfer, e.g. in the
 dataset we offer, should be planned carefully.

 The Faculty is supporting staff to plan for impact early on and provide help in finding industrial and
 societal connections through the public engagement program of the Research Centres. We also
 providing support to existing and pump-prime research by our successful EU projects, the
 successful mobility and networking initiatives and the seed fund, mainly Fusion, which helped
 colleagues to establish their niche areas.




                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Finally, effective mechanisms for the measurement of impact and the collection of evidence for all
 research groups and centres include the UoA11 REF review committee and an online system to
 allow recording and categorising of impact.

 Our current four case studies illustrate the above approach and strategy, each one representing
 a different aspect as well as being representative of our main application areas:

       o     Impact Case Study 1: Design Techniques and Tools for Security & Privacy by Design,
             has made an impact on the design, development, and operation of security and
             privacy preserving software.
       o     Impact Case Study 2: Transparency and Data for Empowering the Responsible
             Nature of Online Gambling, which should be provided in an automated, real-time
             manner to gamblers and their surrogate parties, human or software, to help the
             predictive and proactive prevention of harmful gambling.
       o     Impact Case Study 3: Combatting Digital Addiction which tackled the problem from a
             unique perspective: studying the potential use of digital addiction labels, using
             software not only to monitor how people use technology but also to react to it with
             advice and statistics.
       o     Impact Case Study 4: Establishing Models of Internet of Things (IoT)-related
             Crowdsourced Systems, has established an ITU-T work item (specialised agency of
             the United Nations responsible for issues that concern information and communication
             technologies) within Study Group 20 IoT and smart cities and communities / Question
             5 Research and emerging technologies, terminology and definitions.
 O4 – Promoting technological innovation and industry collaboration:

 The Unit endeavours to be a catalyst for impact by advancing knowledge, creativity and innovation, by
 driving social and economic growth and development in the region, and to leading thinking on
 sustainability. UoA11 has established strong relations with:
        o      Businesses (ArcelorMittal, Unilever, Bouchachia, SETsquared Partnership, Faily;
               Naim Audio Ltd, Cobb; OML, Cobb; Streetscene Addiction Recovery, Ali; County
               Coaches LLP, Sahandi, Prakoonwit; British Telecommunications Plc, Mecham;
               Starlight Culture Investment Pte Ltd, Tian; Beijing Kehai Sports Co Ltd, Tian; Creg
               Handaz Nigeria Ltd, Sahandi; Dongying Oil Technology Development co., Ltd, Jiang;
               Ninja Theory, Gatzidis; Sony interactive, Gatzidis; My mHealth, Gatzidis; Guide Dogs
               for the Blind, Prakoonwit; County Coaches, Prakoonwit; Smart Sure, Davis; Caspia,
               Davis; Bengaged, Davis; Curamicus, Davis; XIM, Bouchachia).
        o      Public organisations (DSTL, Faily; NHS, Bouchachia, Dubey, Yu; Energy Technology
               Institute, Bouchachia; New Forest National Park Authority, Davis; Dudsbury Guide
               Camp, Davis).
        o      Public administrations (Bournemouth Council, Bouchachia, Katos, Chai,
               Angelopoulos; Dorset Local Enterprise Partnership, Bouchachia), Dorset clinical
               commissioning group (Bouchachia).

 These relationships have been triggered as part of KTP; (Computational Mechanics International,
 Apeh; Precision Acoustics Limited, Stefanidis; My mHealth, Gatzidis; We Are Base Limited,
 Budka; Bluestar Software Limited, Budka; Chantacre Limited, Main; Time and Data Systems
 International Limited, Yu), EU projects (PROTEUS, Bouchachia; Gamewise, Gatzidis; GameBiz,
 Gatzidis; FUSION, Yu; cLINK, Yu; RABOT, Yu; SOCIAD, Ali; AniAge, Yu; SMOOTH, Yu; ENISA
 PO 2, Katos; Incident Development, Katos; EduWeb, Katos; FIRST, De Vrieze), charities
 (Gambling Trust/GambleAware, Ali), consultancy (BU Cybersecurity unit, Energy Technology
 Institute), fully-funded studentships (EPSRC - CDE doctoral training centre) match-funded
 studentships (from at least 21 organisations). As part of research outcome, many concrete outputs
 have emerged such as SOLMA (machine learning), Bouchachia; Algorithms for human behaviour,
 from utility data to be exploited by the Energy Technology Institute; the EROGamb research
 platform for responsible online gambling, Ali; BU-CERT (cert.bournemouth.ac.uk) (threat
 intelligence), computing cybersecurity staff, psychology staff and IT services.


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3 Creating an Open Research Environment

 UoA11 is committed to open research. A bold strategy has been in place as part of the BU’s overall
 strategy covering: i) open research data, ii) open research activities and iii) open access. We have
 98.6% compliance with the REF Open Access Publication Policy compared to 18% of journal
 articles being made open access in 2014.

 Alongside green open access, researchers in the Unit can apply to the institutional Open Access
 Publication Fund to support gold open access publication. Access to such a fund is driven by the
 quality of the output thereby encouraging excellence. Currently a good portion of the fund (4.5%)
 goes to Computer Science publications.

 The critical importance of an Open Research Environment to our UoA was formally recognised in
 2018 with the creation of the role of a Faculty Open Data Champion to promote and facilitate these
 principles. The Unit is encouraging all staff as well as research students to adopt the culture of
 open research by using various platforms such as Github. BU researchers are asked to make the
 data collected during the projects (and which supports an output), available as soon as possible
 and for longer periods, helping to negotiate the problem before starting projects. BU now has an
 institutional data repository, BORDaR which currently contains various open access datasets.

 1.4 Research Integrity
 The Unit commits to follow the university’s policy in terms of promoting and upholding the highest
 quality academic and ethical standards. All research undertaken by the Unit’ staff and students is
 subject to appropriate ethical reflection, leading, if necessary, to formal approval via the online
 ethics checklist (the Unit applies this even to Bachelor projects). The Unit has access to the
 University Research Ethics Committee (UREC) which is responsible for ethical practices in relation
 to research and research-related activities and for establishing, promoting, implementing and
 monitoring the Research Ethics Code of Practice. The Unit has a representative staff member in
 the central Research Ethics Panel (REPs) to review and approve research ethics applications from
 postgraduate researchers (high risk) and staff to ensure best ethical practice is adhered to in all
 research activities.

 Because the Unit’s research covers areas like Cyber Security, AI and Data Science, Human
 Computer Interaction, Social Informatics that require ethical approval (such as clinical
 applications) and concern various confidential and personal data, staff receive training in ethics
 (every two years for each individual) part of the regular and mandatory training that all staff have
 to take. Even undergraduate students aligned with UoA11 (in Computing and Creative
 Technology) have to submit an ethics form before starting their final year projects. All research
 requiring ethical approval must be submitted to the REPs. UoA11 submits to Science, Technology
 and Health REP, which meets monthly. All researchers are responsible, scientifically and ethically,
 for the research they conduct. They are bound by obligation to comply with accountable practices
 within the Research Ethics Code of Practice. The researchers have the duty to inform line
 management and the Academic Legal Services at BU if any doubt exists so that advice and
 appropriate measures are taken in line with the legal and ethical requirements in place for
 engaging with external partners (especially in consultancy work where contracts are negotiated
 (e.g., Bouchachia and Budka for Respiratory Digital Innovation Hub; Bouchachia for the Energy
 Technology Institute)). To enhance such understanding for staff, BU organises regularly
 workshops on academic conduct and all Unit staff members and PhD researchers are explicitly
 informed by the Unit leader.




                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

 We have achieved a vibrant and sustainable research environment through a staffing strategy that
 recognises and values collaborative working and the effective sharing of knowledge and
 experience. The Unit adheres to the approach of the university and its staffing strategy, building
 on the Concordat set to support the Career Development of Researchers. The evolution of the
 Unit in terms of staffing follows that of the university which was successful in 2019 in retaining the
 HR Excellence in Research Award, illustrating BU’s commitment to aligning process and practice
 to the UK Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. The staffing strategy
 for this Unit supports four principal aims:

    1) Research Excellence: Ensure that research excellence or potential are key criteria in staff
       appointments and promotion.
    2) Inclusive research community: Fully support all staff in defining and developing research
       appropriate to career stage and expertise via mentoring and structured staff development.
    3) Expanding PGR supervisory capacity: Support projected PGR growth and enhance PGR
       experience – by including structured on-going supervisory development via the Doctoral
       College and increasing the number of staff involved in active supervision in the Unit.
    4) Embedding research strategy: Encourage and support staff to develop skills required to
       enhance impact generation and knowledge exchange, engagement and networking
       capabilities and further develop academic excellence, in order to expand future strategic
       priorities across the Unit.

 As UoA11 was not submitted in the previous REF, our primary goal was to secure a submission
 for this REF2021. In addition to what has been said earlier, we carried forward two specific actions:

    i)       Recruitment of new staff with strong research track records to support the development
             of the research landscape and to support the existing staff by changing the existing
             research culture.
    ii)      Career development support to increase the capability and confidence of staff through
             various ways: (1) awareness, (2) provision of dedicated training (writing workshops,
             professional development), (3) provision of incentives schemes, from financial support
             through QR income and other university funds to the management of teaching load.
             Under the BU Workload Planning Framework all academic staff are allocated a
             minimum of 400 hours a year for research activities. Moreover, staff can take
             advantage of academic leave for up to two years to spend in industry or an academic
             institution. In UoA11, 5 staff members (Ncube, Askoxylakis, Fay, Ali and Rostami) have
             benefited from leave away in academia and industry.

 The strategy of the Unit is to support ECRs to achieve senior status and senior staff to continue
 to build their careers. To achieve this a number of mechanisms have been put in place:

    1- Research-informed recruitment: To appoint academics with an aptitude for research,
       and ideally a track record of, or potential for, research excellence. Our strategy has been
       targeted at appointing academics undertaking research which builds upon our current
       research strengths (e.g., data science, cybersecurity, computer networking) or involves
       subjects that strategically complement research by the Unit, or the university as a whole
       e.g. medical science, computer animation, and assisted living. The growth of the Unit size
       has seen a sharp increase over the recent years in terms of new recruitments, but also in
       terms of promotions. The following table shows the recruitments:




                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                                  Lecturer Senior Principal Associate             Professor
                                           lecturer academic professor
  Dept. of Computing              19       8        2        2                    2

  Dept. of Creative Technology    15         7         5           3              1


       The departments have been devoting significant effort in terms of strategic investment in
       recruitment and facilities to implement the Concordat set. Substantial investment was
       made in research funding and infrastructure to attract new staff. In addition to the
       investment, the Unit encourages network building and development of an excellence-
       focused culture in order to recruit high calibre staff.

       BU is recognised as a Mindful Employer, actively promoting excellence, diversity and
       equality (http://www.mindfulemployer.net/). Its approach to the employment and career
       development of disabled individuals is recognised by the DWPs’ award of Disability.
       Equality Diversity and inclusivity are key considerations running throughout all staffing
       processes. The Unit is committed to creating an ethical, egalitarian workplace that values
       its staff and supports all aspects of skill and career development.

    2- Dedicated ECR support: The present REF submission of UoA11 relies on a cohort of
       researchers including 24% ECRs. ECRs have reduced teaching loads and are given
       sufficient time to establish their research programmes. Within a month of arrival, a research
       briefing by a senior colleague introduces them to the comprehensive support framework,
       including: assistance with grant writing, internal peer review, funding for equipment
       purchase, study leave, collaborations, and conference attendance, and also provides them
       with mentors. In particular, all new ECR staff have an academic advisor to mentor and
       guide them during their 12-month probation and during their early career period. In addition
       to regular meetings, a formal performance review takes place mid-way and near the end
       of the probation period. Specifically, all postdoc researchers (PDRAs), as a sub-category
       of ECR, are assigned an academic mentor to assist with career development. The Unit
       has employed 13 PDRAs during the REF period compared to none in 2014. All these
       actions to support researchers at the start of their research journeys are underpinned by
       the extensive Researcher Development and Knowledge Exchange Framework (RKEDF
       see REF5a), which supports a skills identification and training framework. The sum quality
       of the training and support early career researchers receive is evidenced by a strong record
       of them receiving employment offers from both academia and industry.

    3- Staff Development: Significant investment in staff time has provided a carefully managed
       environment for research development, where each staff member has an allocation of time
       for research and professional practice (typically about 35% contract hours). This
       encourages staff members to develop and accelerate their research careers and develop
       influential research outcomes. To be able to secure a better staff development agenda, all
       staff are required to produce, on yearly basis, a Personal and Professional Development
       Plan (PPDP) which is presented and discussed with their Line Manager. The PPDP aims
       to track the progress of staff not only in terms of research but also in terms of education
       and professional practice.

       Career development is embedded in the process of the performance review in order to
       identify development opportunities and support areas. This encourages performance
       benchmarking, recognition of achievement and guidance for addressing weaknesses that
       need to be addressed for promotion or development. The PPDP process is independent
       of, but informs, the annual salary review and promotions. In fact, salary review and
       promotion are based on applications when a formal interview with the candidate sheds
       light on strengths and areas of improvements. Unsuccessful candidates are supported at

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        the department, Faculty and University level, and are guided with a personal development
        plan discussed and agreed through the PPDP process which is very useful especially for
        lower-grade staff e.g. lecturers and senior lecturers. The number of promotions recorded
        during this REF period within the UoA11 is:

                                   Senior         Principal        Associate         Professor
                                   lecturer       academic         professor

  Dept. of Computing               11             9                5                 6

  Dept. of Creative Technology     1              3                0                 3

        Moreover, a key criterion for the career development of PDRAs is to demonstrate research
        independence. University HEIF (Higher Education Innovation Funding of £30k pa) has
        been established to recruit PDRAs in order to begin collaborative projects. The Research
        Development and Support (RDS) Team regularly arrange sessions to encourage PDRAs
        to collaborate, develop new ideas and to find research partners.
        In addition to department-based mentoring, BU through the Unit provides extra support
        e.g. seed-corn funding and investment; grant writing support from an external peer review
        panel; targeted help in matching researchers to appropriate funders (Research
        Professional) and potential collaborators; and staff training in specialist bid preparation.
        Bournemouth University also funds HEIF funded Research Fellowships for excellent
        researchers.
        Bidding activity of UoA11 staff has increased by 295.74% over the REF period as a result
        of the awareness effort, incentives and recruitment policies. Staff engaged intensively with
        a number of initiatives to enhance bidding and success rates including training
        programmes, funder visits, and specialist external bid writing support.
        All academic staff must undertake online training and development on research ethics,
        equality and diversity. All new academics are required to complete a Postgraduate
        Certificate in PhD Supervision. Experienced PhD supervisors must attend staff
        development refresher programmes every three years.

        Sabbatical leave is dealt with and approved at departmental level – five colleagues have
        taken leave for a career break, secondment or further training during the REF period. We
        also encourage staff to undertake professional practice as part of their academic role.

    4- Enabling staff mobility and networking: As part of the Unit strategy, networking is a
       cornerstone, especially with industry. As indicated in Section 1, the staff have strong
       connections with industry as part of various research projects and collaboration. A number
       of KTPs (8, plus a set of 4 postponed) have been proposed and successfully executed.
       Moreover, many secondments of academic staff in industry have taken place, all of them
       were part of H2020 projects such as: INFER (Budka, Gabryz, Bakirov), IDEAL CITIES
       (Vasilis, Chechina, Ali, Kostoulas, Angelopoulos, Henriksen-Bulmer, Amelidis) and FIRST
       (Xu, De Vrieze). In addition, staff in UoA11 have strong collaboration networks (Please
       See Section 4 for more details on collaboration). These collaborations are diverse in terms
       of extent and scope (academic and scientific, industrial, training). Examples include:
       projects (PROTEUS, RABOT, SOCIAD, ECHO), research visits (20), training networks
       (Eduweb, Gamebiz, cLINK, FUSION), PhD studentships (23), and outreach activities
       (Festival of learning, Festival of learning in China, Bournemouth Air Festival).
       The Unit, via the departments, continues to financially support staff to attend national and
       international networking events to: 1) disseminate research, 2) build collaboration ties and
       3) stimulate bidding activities. Within the CI department, industrial talks are regularly held
       by industry partners/guests to explore their collaboration potential with researchers and
       PGRs.



                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    5- Staff support and recognition: The Unit, via the departments involved, recognises and
       rewards staff for carrying out research and for achieving impact through financial support
       (QR funding and university funding) and workload flexibility, as indicated earlier. UoA11
       was allocated a QR budget amounting to £245,951 since 2014/2015 to support staff
       members, in impact and networking activities. The budget was part of £2,838,587 that was
       dedicated to enhancing the research environment in general including travel to events,
       equipment, outreach, co-production, hosting guests, etc.

        In particular, The Unit engaged two PDRAs (one for supporting the impact and the other
        for supporting the output), in addition to the Research Development and Support dedicated
        members, to support staff to advance their research impact. Numerous training sessions
        given by renowned external guests during the whole REF period helped to explain and
        enable staff to achieve impact from their research.

 2.2 Research Students

 The BU Doctoral College in collaboration with the various faculties provided access to over
 £1,318,786.16 in match-funded PhD studentships and £853,524.60 fully-funded PhD studentships
 since 2014 and committed to fund 50 per year plus 50 doctoral (fee waive) scholarships per year.
 In this REF period, UoA11 earned 8 fully funded and 34 match-funded studentships in contrast to
 the period preceding 2014 which record only 2 fully funded and 7 match-funded.

 The overall increase of the growth in PhD registrations (20%) compared to the previous REF
 period is due to both increased external and BU internal funding. A distinctive feature, enhanced
 by the match-funding model for BU studentships, is the number of PhD projects that are in
 collaboration with industrial partners. BU has invested in state-of-the-art PGR monitoring software
 (ResearchPAD, provided by Converis) and a dedicated administration team to support our PGRs
 is provided. UoA11 is taking full advantage of that securing the highest number of PhD awards
 across the faculty of Science and Technology.

    •   Recruitment: PhD studentships are advertised internationally via online systems, on the
        BU’s website and through our research networks. Interviews include an independent
        professor, whilst gender balance is considered. New PhD student numbers have grown
        under different schemes (self-funded, fully-funded by BU, externally fully-funded through
        research projects). The annual PhD student intake of UoA11 has grown by 13% from pre-
        2014 to 2020.
    •   Supervision and monitoring: Students have up to three supervisors (one primary) and
        supervisory training is mandatory for all staff. A six-month review ensures that the student
        has a clear overview of their subject area and the steps required to complete their PhD. A
        12-18 month major review (previously transfer to progress from MPhil to PhD), confirms
        there is a clear path to completion. PhD students have weekly meetings with their
        supervisors and are required to attend research seminars to learn from their peers and
        from guest speakers. All PhD students are expected to submit their PhD theses in three
        years with a maximum of four years. For exceptional circumstances, a special case can
        be made to the university for an extension.
    •   Development and funding: Development events, including induction, are offered by the
        Doctoral College based on Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework. Students have
        access to funds to support research, conference attendance and placements (Doctoral
        Study fund, £3k per student over their PhD period). All BU funded PGRs are required to
        undertake at least two public engagement activities during their studies. The Doctoral
        college provides specialist skills training and knowledge modules, details of which are
        compiled for safety and training records. Departments usually top up the doctoral study
        fund if needed. Students that are deemed to require English tuition, identified through a
        rigorous test, receive the necessary help through the Language Support Unit
        [Bournemouth University languages community]. Health and Safety training e.g. fire safety
        is given and recorded, supported by the Departmental and Faculty Safety Officers.


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Integration with the research community: PGRs are part of the Department and Faculty
        research community. There is a PGR representative on the School Research Committee
        and all PGRs are invited to Research Centres/groups meetings and there are weekly
        research seminars given by PGRs and staff which PGRs are expected to attend. Moreover,
        Academic and Emotional support is provided through the Post-Graduate Tutors. There are
        university tutor and health-care professionals to assist where necessary. Interruption of
        studies can be made on health or compassionate grounds. Socialising among PhD student
        community is promoted by monthly PhD lunch and coffee-cake get-togethers.
    •   Seminars and conferences: Students hold annual Faculty-wide PGR conferences
        (including       poster      competitions      judged      by      industry      experts
        (https://www.bournemouth.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/researcher-
        development/conferences-exhibitions-showcases) allowing PGRs to showcase their
        research and a popular monthly PGR Forum takes place in addition to biannual away day
        events.

 2.3 Equality and Diversity

 This Unit promotes equal opportunities and outcomes by adopting flexible working practices and
 supporting family and work-life balance, which has helped many staff (including staff with young
 children, staff with disabilities and staff returning from sick leave) to continue to engage actively in
 research. 24% of staff and 26% of outputs submitted in the Unit are from Black, Asian and minority
 ethnic backgrounds, which makes the Unit one of the most racially diverse at BU. Fast adoption
 to “working from home” mode since April 2020 has enabled the Unit to further embrace flexible
 working practices to benefit all staff. This ensured continuity of research activities to mitigate the
 impact of Covid-19, where remote supervision via virtual meetings and online collaboration
 platforms support all staff and PGRs.

 BU is a member of the Athena SWAN charter and retained its Bronze Institutional Award in 2019.
 We are addressing the underrepresentation of female staff in the Unit (13% female, 87% male)
 and our recruitment strategy is designed to achieve a more balanced gender profile. The Unit has
 embedded gender equality in the recruitment process of PGRs and researchers. For example, all
 shortlisting and interview panels are gender representative and gender balanced wherever
 possible. Initiatives to further reduce traditional barriers to progress for women scientists in the
 Unit include focused writing retreats, inclusion in internal review panels and QR funding.

 We schedule teaching loads to be congruent with caring responsibilities and extra-university
 requirements, via a transparent process, e.g. all departmental meetings are between 10am and
 4pm, with our research seminars at 4pm.

 Our institution offers a more generous maternity/paternity/adoption leave provision than required
 by law. Colleagues with parental responsibilities also have access to flexible and convenient
 childcare via on-site childcare provision for ages three months to 14 years. The on-campus nursery
 and pre-school (ages three months to five years, Ofsted Outstanding) runs throughout the year,
 and our Sport BU team run holiday childcare (ages five to 14) during the Easter, summer and
 Christmas holidays. Colleagues may request the use of QR or other internal funds for childcare
 whilst at conferences.

 BU achieved Disability Confident status, a quality mark awarded by the Department of Work and
 Pensions, for our positive commitment to the employment, retention, training and career
 development of disabled employees. Its approach to the employment and career development of
 disabled individuals is recognised by the DWPs’ award of Disability Two Ticks Status and HR
 Excellence in Research Award. Colleagues with disabilities (7% of submission) have benefited
 from the introduction of a full- time Faculty Health & Safety Officer (2017) liaising between the
 department and Institution, and from the Institution’s work with ‘AccessAble’ to provide detailed
 access information for all buildings and facilities.



                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 The success of our interdisciplinary approach and integrated research and impact strategies,
 coupled with world-class institutional research support (see REF5a), is demonstrated by a major
 uplift in annual research income from £296K in 2013/14 to £1.4 million in 2018/19 (see Figure 3)
 and a significant increase in awards from both UK and international funders (see Figures 4 and
 5).

  1600000

  1400000

  1200000

  1000000

   800000

   600000

   400000

   200000

        0
              13/14        14/15       15/16       16/17       17/18       18/19        19/20

 Figure 3. Increase in external income per annum for Computer Science and Informatics
 research at Bournemouth University

 As a part of our Unit research strategy we deployed a huge effort on income generation in this
 REF period, supporting our ECRs and strengthening the research culture through various
 channels. This involved amongst other things active engagement as a Unit in various institutional
 development initiatives and support activities as well as internal competitive funding schemes for
 ECRs, pump-priming and knowledge exchange. This resulted in 67% of UoA11 staff submitted
 having been Principal or Co-Investigator for a research grant in the REF period, representing a
 huge step forward. Figure 4 represents the increase in UK research funding over the REF period
 which increased annually reaching a high in 2018/19. The impact of Covid-19 reduced predicted
 income in 19/20.

  1200000

  1000000

   800000

   600000

   400000

   200000

        0
               13/14       14/15       15/16       16/17       17/18       18/19        19/20

                                                   UK

 Figure 4. Increase in UK research income per annum for Computer Science and
 Informatics research at Bournemouth University


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A significant amount of money has been invested in supporting research internally through a
 number of internal funding schemes focused on supporting income generation. These include
 those designed to inspire and equip researchers to achieve greater success with Research
 Council funding (Grant Academy - GA, £14,965.00), support for ECRs (Acceleration of Research
 & Networking – Acorn, £72K), Charity impact fund to support initiatives involving charities
 (£175,948.92), HEFCE funded support for business engagement and knowledge exchange ideas
 between HEI and the wider world (Higher Education Innovation Fund – HEIF, £2,017,248.00),
 Fusion fund to support internal co-creation initiatives (FIF, £435,762.40), and Research Impact
 Fund (RIF, £94,052.82).

 UoA11 has taken full advantage of internal funding opportunities securing the following investment
 over the REF period:
                              GA                           1,985.00
                              ACORN                        8,999.04
                              Charity Impact              15,141.00
                              HEIF                      414,610.00
                              FIF                         31,995.00
                              RIF                         11,850.00
                                Grand Total                     484,580.00


 UoA11’s researchers have generated income through various multi/interdisciplinary consortia
 involving national and international partners. EU Projects, such as PROTEUS, INFER, IDEAL
 CITIES, FIRST, RABOT, SOCIAD, ECHO, Eduweb, Gamebiz, cLINK, FUSION, etc.), involve large
 consortia and cover interdisciplinary research in Big Data, Cybersecurity and Manufacturing.
 Figure 5 illustrates a stable increase in the international funding over the REF period.

   450000

   400000

   350000

   300000

   250000

   200000

   150000

   100000

    50000

        0
               13/14       14/15        15/16           16/17          17/18   18/19       19/20

                                                EU and International

 Figure 5. Increase in EU and International research income per annum for Computer
 Science and Informatics Research at Bournemouth University

 Such projects have had a great impact on the research output totalling more than 100 publications
 in conference proceedings and high impact journals. Three of the Unit’s impact cases also stem
 from these projects. A number of ECR (9) participated in the proposal and execution of such
 projects. The approach of the UoA11 consisted of involving as many ECRs as possible not only
 in the execution of such projects, but as co-investigators with full involvement in the writing of the
 proposals. All of the ECRs have submitted bids in the role of principal investigator.


                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This explains the increase of the number of bids submitted by the UoA11 over the last three years
 (up by 300%). While this figure is quite substantial, the actual increase in income was about 60%.
 Given the young history of UoA11 at BU during this REF period, the Unit’s strategy has primarily
 involved motivating staff to engage in bidding and learning more about formulating proposals. The
 next step of the Unit’s strategy is to refine the bidding action by placing more focus on increasing
 the success rate and income.

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 The Faculty of Science and Technology has invested heavily in specialist and cross-cutting
 laboratories that are available to our academics for research purposes in order to cover some of
 the most impactful research themes: Cyber Security, AI and Data Science, Human Computer
 Interaction, Social Informatics and Software Engineering, Computer Networking and IoT, and
 Games Technology.

 Specifically, the UoA11 acquired a CISCO Lab, Creative Studios and two cross-cutting labs – the
 Psychology Group’s Interaction Lab and the Design Group’s Electronic Lab with a combined total
 investment of £750k. The UoA11 invested ~£400k in two new state-of-the-art Forensics and
 Security Laboratories to support our research activities in Information Assurance and Cyber
 Security. Although these laboratories are primarily focused on Security, they are configured to
 support our other research activities, such as large-scale systems-of-systems engineering and Big
 Data analytics. A new building (Poole Gateway Building) has been designed to increase the
 collaboration between researchers from UoA11 and UoA32. Moreover, the university is planning
 a new building that will host the Department of Computing and Informatics as part of the
 investment into Computer Science and Information Technology.

 UoA11 continues, with the support of the university, to improve its facilities considering two levels:
     a- Internal: BU continues to address the research needs by investing in research
         equipment as well as space. The department of CI will be moved to a new building that
         is equipped with modern facilities in order to create a better research environment.
     b- External: When necessary, BU staff are asked to use national facilities in the country.
         For instance, Computing staff (Bouchachia) has been using the high-performance
         computing infrastructure (Hartree Centre), owned by the Science and Technology
         Facilities Council, in order to run large scale simulations and big data analysis
         (distributed machine learning for Projects such PROTEUS and HFADA (High Frequency
         Appliance Disaggregation).

 Moreover, UoA11 has been collaborating with RDS (REF 5a) to improve the research
 environment, technical research infrastructure and the delivery of projects. We have been working
 across all three RDS teams:
    • Funding development team,
    • Project delivery team,
    • Knowledge exchange and impact team.

 This allows us to continuously improve support to academic staff at all stages of a project lifecycle
 whilst observing equality and diversity across the board.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 As part of our impact-driven research, staff have established strong links to public administration,
 organisation, industry and charities in an effort to contribute to solving societal, industrial, and
 environmental problems amongst others. This has raised the level of commitment over the recent
 years in line with Fusion principles and BU2018 and BU2025 visions which emphasise the role of
 collaboration and knowledge exchange with industry and business as well as establishing long-
 term relationships in strategic alliances and across multidisciplinary themes.

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 As part of our long-term plans, UoA11 formulated a bidding strategy with a major focus on the
 EU’s Horizon 2020 programme, the Global Challenges Research Fund and the Industrial Strategy
 Challenge Fund. These funds are industry-led; therefore UoA11 is nurturing long-term stable
 relationships with industrial organisations based on an exchange of ideas and with a good
 understanding of their domains needs. Currently, the Unit staff are collaborating with organisations
 such as BEIS (Government Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy) and Dorset
 Clinical Commissioning Group (DCCG). In addition, collaboration with enterprises such as: BT,
 BAE Systems, Deloitte, JP Morgan, IBM, Microsoft, and Thales and with SMEs such as Boo9,
 Coeo, CudoVentures, Enzen, Famiio, Fidelity International, Hugslock, Inmarsat, LimeTools, Lush,
 NATS, PulseEight, Quayside and Katalytik, Renston, reignition, Roke, Royal Signals Museum,
 Sentinel, Shoppar, Solentim, Spherea, Tenable, Think.aero, Tripple Play, Wessex Internet, and
 YougoWorld have resulted in eight KTPs which have recently started. Four KTPs have been
 postponed due to COVID-19 with others in the pipeline.

 Besides the initiatives for external bidding, and as highlighted earlier, UoA11 has targeted the
 established internal funds that are used mainly as pump-priming resources. To promote research,
 and to encourage and support Early Career Researchers, BU has established an ACORN Fund
 (Acceleration of Research & Networking). Two researchers have been funded under UoA11 with
 a total amount of £9000. In addition, the Charity Impact Fund is used to facilitate relationship
 development with charitable organisations or build on existing research collaborations. This
 scheme has allocated and awarded £175,948.92 to BU academics since 2014, with £15,141.00
 awarded to UoA11 across five projects.

 Moreover, UoA11 follows BU’s vision about ‘creating the most stimulating, challenging and
 rewarding university experience in a world-class learning community by sharing our unique fusion
 of excellent education, research and professional practice and inspiring our students, graduates
 and staff to enrich the world.’ The achievement of this vision is supported through the Fusion
 Investment Fund (FIF) and in particular its Networking Strand which provides staff with the
 opportunity to develop and pursue their fusion goals by bidding for and drawing on these ‘pump-
 priming’ resources. FIF (networking) is part of BU’s investment in intellectual capital. Through over
 160 projects, the FIF has awarded £435,762.40, with £31,995.00 awarded to projects within
 UoA11.

 One aspect of the Unit’s research and impact strategy (see section 1) has been driven by:

    -   Reinforcement of the industrial links and collaborations: staff have established strong links
        to various SMEs and enterprises in the region, in the country and in the world. To
        strengthen this vision, the two departments aligned with the Unit have created a dedicated
        role “Industrial liaison” for building ties with the industry. This is now a channel to KTPs
        (12) and match-funded studentships (14, plus 7 in the year 2013/2014) as well as
        placement for our UG/PGR students.
    -   Links to other universities/charities/public administrations: staff are encouraged to work
        with various public organisations, charities and with their peers in other national and
        international universities. Section 1 showed a few collaboration examples that emerged
        from this effort.

 The Unit has maintained and strengthened strong links with a broad network of partners and
 collaborators across the world: Asia (China, Japan, India, Vietnam); Europe (Germany, Spain,
 France, Italy, Sweden, Norway, Greece, Portugal, Denmark, Poland); North and South America
 (US, Canada, Brazil, Mexico); Africa (Algeria, Egypt, Nigeria) and Australia. These
 collaborations are diverse in terms of extent and scope (academic and scientific, industrial,
 training).

 In terms of co-authored papers, the top 10 institutions collaborating with UoA11 are: Zhejiang
 University (49), University of Technology, Sydney (23), Northwest Agriculture and Forestry
 University (22), Tsinghua University (20), University of Southampton (20), Siberian State


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Aerospace University (18), Shanghai University (18), University of Bradford (18), University of
 Canberra (18), and Xiamen University (15).

 Moreover, we appointed 30 visiting researchers (including 6 international professors) during the
 current REF period with expertise covering our prominent research areas: cybersecurity, data
 science, social computing, software engineering, HCI, creative technologies. The goal was to
 support collaboration and enhance research activities within the Unit.

 Many of our publications over the past decade have been well received, e.g., Cache “less for
 more” in information-centric networks, by Koong Chai, who received an award from the journal; A
 survey on concept drift adaptation by Bouchachia; Elderly activities recognition and classification
 for applications in assisted living by Yu; A goal-based framework for contextual requirements
 modelling and analysis by Ali; Character-based interactive storytelling by Charles. In addition, best
 paper nominations have been achieved at major venues. For instance, Hargood et al. had their
 papers; Patterns of Sculptural Hypertext in Location Based Narratives and Intelligent Generative
 Locative Hyperstructure, nominated as best papers in the 27th and the 29th ACM Conferences on
 Hypertext and Social Media. Hulusic et al. also had VR Video Storytelling for Intangible Cultural
 Heritage Preservation nominated as the best paper in the 16th Eurographics Workshop on
 Graphics and Cultural Heritage.

 Editorial work, positions and measures of esteem: The quality of the research culture within
 this UoA is evidenced by the many external responsibilities held by academics during this REF
 period, including: (a) journal Associate/Guest Editors (Evolving systems and Network:
 Computation in Neural Systems, Sensors, Applied Soft Computing); (b) programme committee
 members of international conferences (Bouchachia, Chai, Ali, Katos, etc.), conference/workshop
 chairs (Bouchachia, Dagan, Ali); (c) co-chairs for top international venues in their respective fields;
 (d) memberships, fellowships and senior fellowships in main scientific associations such as IEEE,
 ACM, IET, IMA, Eurographics and others and (e) project evaluators (UK research councils: Ali,
 Budka, Bouchachia, Tang, Yu - European Commission: Bouchachia, Gatzidis - International
 funding institutions Sweden, Saudi Arabia, Czech republic, Chile, Belgium, Canada : Bouchachia).
 Furthermore, UoA11 academics have been invited to give invited lectures at leading UK
 Universities. Other staff members were invited to serve as guest speakers at international
 conferences (Bouchachia, Katos) and as members of international panels (Evolving Intelligent
 Systems Technical Committee of the IEEE Systems, Man and Cybernetics Society, the IEEE
 Task-Force for Adaptive and Evolving Fuzzy Systems and the IEEE Computational Intelligence
 Society, Bouchachia).

 Often UoA11 research projects are disseminated within external media programmes. For instance,
 our research focusing on digital addiction, gambling (Ali) and assistive technology advancements
 for improving life for people with disabilities (Whittington, Dogan) received attention from BBC1,
 Radio Solent, BBC1 South Today, The Telegraph, Huffington Post, the Italian daily La Stampa,
 and Bournemouth Echo.

 Summary:
 Given the young history of UoA11 at BU (this is the first time to be submitted), we almost started
 from scratch shaping up the Unit by taking advantage of all training, funding, networking and
 outreach opportunities to improve the research environment at BU. We saw a very strong increase
 in various activities (size of the Unit, publications, bidding, inter/multidisciplinary research,
 connecting with industry), and there are areas that will need to be refined and strengthened as
 part of the natural process of growing the Unit to become well established. It is the strategy of
 UoA11, put in place at the beginning of this REF period, to follow an incremental approach, initially,
 by incentivising and motivating the staff to engage with different facets of research and with
 changing the research environment and embedding the research culture, followed by refinement
 and strengthening in a second stage. The achievements attained so far are really promising,
 especially in terms of changing the culture.



                                                                                                Page 17
