Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 0B   Institution: University of Aberdeen

 1B   Unit of Assessment: UoA 23 Education

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview
 This submission contains 15.8 full time equivalent (FTE) members of both the School of Education
 (SoE) and the Centre for Healthcare Education Research and Innovation (CHERI). CHERI’s work
 is presented for assessment together with the SoE for the first time, as CHERI was created in
 2017. The SoE is located on the Old Aberdeen campus, while CHERI is housed on the Foresterhill
 Medical campus two miles away. The SoE and CHERI are both research-led and seek to inform
 and shape practitioners’ work both locally and nationally.

 The main research themes of both groups share common features and fall under the University’s
 identified research themes of Inclusivity and Health and Wellbeing (see REF5a). They both foster
 interdisciplinary relationships and pursue research that aligns with the following UN Sustainable
 Development Goals: 3, Good Health and Wellbeing; 4, Quality Education; 5, Gender Equality; 10,
 Reduced Inequalities; and 17, Partnerships to Achieve the Goals. This submission details the
 research environments that apply to each unit as well as highlighting their crossovers. Both the
 SoE and CHERI have been awarded Athena SWAN Bronze status and support the University’s
 commitment to the Concordat for the Career Development of Researchers, which is identified in
 the SoE’s research strategy as one of the priorities for the next five years.

 Since 2014, the SoE has re-focused its research themes, adding to its central commitment to
 teacher education and professional development an explicit set of commitments to the University’s
 Aberdeen 2040 strategic plan launched on 10 February 2020. These commitments are inclusivity,
 interdisciplinarity (IDR), internationalisation and sustainability (see REF5a) and are actively
 mapped onto the UN Sustainable Development Goals.

 Activity in this Unit has flourished, with seven monographs, 77 articles and ten book chapters
 published and more than GBP3.5 million in grant income received since 2014. The SoE has
 attained Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) recognition as a Doctoral Training
 Centre. Consolidating its strong research environment, the SoE has more than doubled its PhD
 completions, from 14.5 reported to REF2014 to 35.99 in this assessment period.

 The SoE’s restructuring in support of embedding research has been further strengthened through
 appointing research-active staff into leadership positions as heads of departments: Mynott, Initial
 Teacher Education; Bain, Postgraduate Taught; McGeorge, Counselling, Wellbeing and
 Educational Psychology; and McDonald, Early Years. The SoE has strengthened its administrative
 structure to support its research ambitions, with a dedicated administrative officer.

 Staff within the SoE make a significant contribution to the governance and leadership of the
 University; for example, Curtis chairs the University’s Board for Research Ethics and Governance
 in Arts, Social Sciences and Business, and Shanks is convener of the Scottish Graduate School
 of Social Science Doctoral Training Partnership within the University, which includes a number of
 research areas (Health Economics, Education, Human Geography, Business; Divinity, History and
 Philosophy (DHP); Linguistics; Psychology; and Sociology).

 Housed within the Institute for Education in Medical and Dental Sciences, one of five institutes
 that make up the School of Medicine, Medical Sciences and Nutrition (SMMSN), CHERI was
 launched in 2017. It is a centre supporting academic excellence in healthcare education research
 by producing high-quality, important research focusing on relevant issues and developing
 tomorrow’s researchers. CHERI has the only endowed chair in Medical Education research in the
 UK and has awarded 6.9 doctoral degrees in the assessment period. CHERI has developed a
 postgraduate research (PGR) course in clinical education at the Cert, Dip and MSc levels. It is
 accredited by the Association of Medical Educators.

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research Structure
 The SoE’s Director of Research (DoR) - Gray (former), Ravet (current) - chairs the research
 committee twice a semester. The DoR sits on the University’s Research Policy Committee and is
 a member of the SoE’s executive board, reporting to the head of School. The Research Committee
 devises the research strategy, oversees research activity, and allocates research funding. It also
 advises the head of School on individual research leave decisions. An allocation of GBP21,000 is
 administered by the DoR and monitored by the Research Committee. Staff can apply to the
 Research Committee for funding to support research and dissemination activities, ranging from
 costs associated with conference attendance to seed funding for research projects. A maximum
 of GBP1,200 is available per annum per applicant with a clear commitment to contribute to the
 research activities of the School if funding is approved; usually through presenting a research
 seminar.

 The DoR meets with all staff members individually for an annual research support interview. All
 staff have a designated research mentor who meets with them to provide collegiate support for
 research and scholarship activities. The School also operates a supportive system of internal peer
 review of all grant applications and has a designated ethics officer (Curtis, Darling-McQuistan
 and Mtika have served in this role in the period since 2014) to promote research integrity. The
 ethics officer is allocated work hours and sits on the Board for Research Ethics and Governance
 in Arts, Social Sciences and Business. As noted previously, Curtis is the chair of the board and
 provides advice across 12 Units of assessment.

 CHERI reports to and is a member of the Research Committee of SMMSN. It has regular internal
 training sessions to discuss research and share expertise. All CHERI staff provide support for the
 PhD students.

 Research Strategy
 Following the REF2014 submission, the Unit’s strategy has been to build on its successes and
 strengthen its research base. Initially working within the three identified research themes of
 Pedagogy and Innovation, Professional Learning and Teacher Education and Communities and
 Partnerships, the SoE has re-assessed its research structure to align itself explicitly with staff
 expertise and with the University’s Aberdeen 2040 strategy (see REF5a). In particular, the SoE
 has identified four key themes:
     A. Teacher Education and Professional Development
     B. Educational Inclusion and Wellbeing
     C. Pedagogy and Digital Learning
     D. International Studies of Social and Educational Development
 To support this, a research lead has been appointed for each theme, and they are provided with
 a discretionary budget of GBP1000 to enable activity. They take a lead role in organising theme
 related seminars, identifying research funding opportunities and seeking opportunities for IDR,
 and public/policy engagement. The four research themes involve staff in each of the four SoE
 departments, enabling interdepartmental and interdisciplinary collaboration.

 CHERI’s research programme currently centres on three broad themes supporting research that
 has an immediate impact on practice and policy:
    E. Selection, Assessment and Performance
    F. Education and Healthcare System Reform
    G. Health Careers Decision-Making

 To support these themes, there has been active recruitment of staff with relevant expertise to
 strengthen these areas, including Ali for Selection, Assessment and Performance and Walker
 and Wass for Education and Healthcare System Reform and Careers Decision-Making.

 Strategic renewal in the SoE was supported by ensuring all staff had a trained research mentor
 and that mentors met regularly to share experiences. This support was particularly important for

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the new appointments made during this assessment period, which consisted of five early-career
 researchers. In addition, annual research support meetings were arranged with the Director of
 Research (DoR) to enable a clear overview of emerging research agendas and identify support
 required. Staff are encouraged to engage with professional development opportunities provided
 by the Centre for Academic Practice and the Grants Academy and are made fully aware of the
 support available from the University’s Office of Research and Innovation (see REF5a). Staff are
 further supported through the availability of semester-long research sabbaticals every four years,
 along with the introduction of mini-research breaks to focus on clearly defined time-dependent
 tasks (publishing or funding application deadlines for instance). This policy has now been adopted
 by the wider University.

 Research Themes

    A. Teacher Education and Professional Development
 Work focusing on teacher development involves both policy and practice, spanning early-year
 (Darling-McQuistan), primary (McDougal) and secondary (Johnston, Dewhurst) education
 contexts, from initial teacher education (Graham, Mtika and Robson) to career-long continuing
 professional development (Gray, Bain, Curtis, and Graham). Examples of the type of research
 undertaken include measuring the quality of initial teacher education (Shanks), developing
 pedagogies of inclusion with student teachers (Graham, McDougal, Mtika and Robson) and
 collaborating with the International Forum for Teacher Educator Development (Gray, Bain).

    B. Educational Inclusion and Wellbeing
 The Unit supports research into the preparation of student teachers for social justice and inclusion
 (Darling-McQuistan, Graham) and autism research, including collaborative work with the School
 of Medical Sciences to develop a mask-based drama-based intervention to address imitation
 difficulties and enhance mental health in individuals with autism in secondary schools (Ravet).

     C. Pedagogy and Digital Learning
 This theme applies to the education of children of all ages and to adults, with a particular focus on
 innovative approaches to learning. Examples include technology-enhanced learning, e-learning
 and online teaching, with recent funding (Cornelius: GBP10,000, European Commission) to
 explore mobile learning in higher education, outdoor learning and forestry careers (Gray), drama
 (Curtis, Barlow) and mathematics (Martin, Thomson).

      D. International Studies of Social and Educational Development
 The SoE works extensively with both children and adults overseas, particularly in countries
 recognised as requiring Official Development Assistance (ODA). Examples include capacity
 building in inclusive education in remote, rural schools in Cambodia (Ravet and Mtika); community
 transitions in oil and gas in Tanzania (Colucci-Gray, Mtika and Curtis); and a social practices to
 literacies approaches in Rwanda (Abbott, Mtika, and Ackland) (Impact case study, Abbott).

     E. Selection, Assessment and Performance
 CHERI has driven forward research addressing the long-standing issue of limited diversity of
 medical and dental school and postgraduate training with the aim of increasing inclusivity in such
 programmes (Cleland: GBP50,922, Medical School Council). Other topics in this research theme
 include designing and validating selection processes, including programmatic selection; assessing
 the relationships between different types of assessment (UKMED, Walker); and designing new
 learning environments and approaches (RCS, Cleland).

    F. Education and Healthcare System Reform
 CHERI staff members ask how change is enacted in different healthcare education and training
 contexts. Topics of research in this theme include the influence of the hidden curriculum, planning,
 evaluating process and experiences of change especially in relation to organisations (Stubbing).

    G. Healthcare Career Decision-Making

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CHERI prioritises professional development in the context of healthcare professionals. It has a
 particular focus on examining the push-pull factors that influence career decisions, exploring
 relationships between individual and organisational (systems and relational) factors, analysing
 remote and rural workforce challenges and determining how to “reach out” in terms of career
 information and guidance. CHERI’s focus is not only on those setting out on their careers but also
 on how to encourage experienced doctors to stay in clinical practice. Studies within this theme
 focus on individual (socio-demographic) predictors of career choice; the relationship between
 career intent and career behaviour; and doctors’ experiences of the working and learning
 environment and how this influences careers decisions.


 Interdisciplinarity
 Collaborations between the SoE with other Schools in the University have continued and
 expanded. For example, Shanks and Abbott are active contributors to the Centre for Citizenship,
 Civil Society and Rule of Law (CISRUL), which brings together colleagues from the history, politics,
 sociology, law and education disciplines to study political concepts. In addition to being involved
 in conferences and workshops, members of CISRUL have hosted collaborative research projects
 on political awareness in city and shire schools. Shanks and Abbott also co-supervise one of the
 eleven CISRUL Horizon 2020 Marie Sklodowska-Curie PhD students. Abbott also collaborates
 with the School of Law in a new international project addressing the crisis of governance in the
 Horn of Africa. Gray and Colucci-Gray have collaborated with colleagues across the social and
 natural sciences with respect to research in sustainability issues. There have been several co-
 supervisions of PhD students involving staff from different Schools (e.g., Colucci-Gray with van
 der Wal from the School of Biological Sciences, Abbott with Smith from Plant and Soil Science,
 Coyle with Skrzypek from Language and Literature and Shanks and Abbott with Stack from
 Spanish and Latin American Studies). Many CHERI PhD students’ co-supervisors are also
 interdisciplinary, reflecting the nature of the Unit, including co-supervisors from the Health
 Economics Research Unit (HERU) (Cleland/Walker with Skatun), Language and Linguistics
 (Cleland/Fahey Palma), Medical Statistics (Cleland/Walker with Prescott), the Institute of
 Applied Sciences (Cleland/Walker with Lee) and NHS Education for Scotland and the NHS. There
 are also close links with Primary Care (Wass).

 CHERI is a key stakeholder in the Scottish Medical Education Research Consortium (SMERC),
 which is a collaboration between five universities and NHS Education for Scotland. Cleland was
 the Director of SMERC while the current interim director (Johnston) is within CHERI. Research
 projects under the SMERC banner are primarily with other medical education units but include
 active collaboration with Health Psychology, Business and Primary Care.

 Impact Strategy
 The main focus of the impact strategy is to influence policy and practice related to teaching and
 learning and to inform discussion around key areas such as educational inclusion, pedagogy,
 digital learning, teacher education and international development. In doing this the SoE works with
 the University’s Grants Academy, Public Engagement with Research Unit and Research Policy
 and Governance Officer (see REF5a). As demonstrated in the impact case studies, our approach
 has emphasised research that aligns with international priorities, specifically, the UN Sustainable
 Development Goals, by working with partner organisations in Development Assistance Committee
 (DAC) countries.

 Researchers are encouraged and supported to apply for grants to: engage with stakeholders to
 ensure that the impact of the research reaches a range of beneficiaries and stakeholders; to
 support those involved in maintaining prolonged, positive relationships; and to build teams around
 common themes to ensure vitality and continued sustainability. Abbott who has significant
 experience in working in the area of ODA, is now disseminating her experience through the Grants
 Academy. Both the SoE and CHERI Units encourage staff to undertake impact leave, to engage
 centrally with support for impact and to continue with research that aligns with the goals/ethos of
 the Unit.


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In addition to the projects highlighted by the impact case studies, the Unit has exercised local,
 national and international influence upon government policy and practice. Recent examples
 include Shank’s study of school uniforms, which has generated media interest and resulted in
 meetings being organised with MSPs and school uniform banks and Gray’s School Garden
 Project initiative in regeneration areas in Aberdeen, which has been mentioned twice in the
 Scottish Parliament. Bain and Gray’s involvement with the International Forum for Teacher
 Educator Development has involved policymakers from throughout Europe in examining the need
 for teacher educators’ professional development.

 CHERI has demonstrated impact with research targeting widening access and selection to
 medical schools, with examples including changing policy, guidance and practice (Cleland,
 Walker). Cleland was commissioned by the General Medical Council (GMC), through a highly
 competitive process, to carry out a literature review examining the evidence for selection and
 widening access to medical schools. The recommendation that all medical schools should carry
 out structured admission interviews, preferably mini multiple interviews (MMIs) and reduce the use
 of personal statements has resulted in all medical schools conducting interviews across the UK
 and has increased the number of MMIs used in the selection process. This work led directly to the
 formation of the Selecting for Excellence Executive Group (SEEG) of the Medical School Council
 (MSC). CHERI was then commissioned (via a competitive process) to carry out a programme of
 mixed-methods research to contribute to their reports. A final recommendation was that the MSC
 establish a group comprising experts in selection who would lead nationally on all matters relating
 to medical school admissions, resulting in the formation of the Medical Schools Council Selection
 Alliance (MSCAA). Output from this research also included the recommendation to the GMC to
 develop a means to enable long term follow-up of medical students to trained posts. This
 recommendation has led directly to the formation of UKMED, a platform for collating data on the
 performance of UK medical students and trainee doctors across their education and career – a
 unique database. We were then the first group to be formally commissioned by UKMED to carry
 out a programme of study looking at the career trajectories and decisions of doctors and the
 relationship between career progression and socio-demographic factors (Walker/Cleland).

 Open Access
 Both the SoE and CHERI are committed to delivering open access for their outputs, with open-
 access journal article compliance increasing from 43% for the SoE in the first year of the
 assessment period to 70% in 2020. In addition, the SoE has worked to ensure open access to all
 content of the journal Education in the North, including the digitisation of back copies. The SoE
 has also embedded the representation of the journal in the research environment to make sure
 that dissemination is effective. The journal, produced by the SoE with a history dating back to
 1965, is one of only two Scottish-based education journals and the only one with an institutional
 affiliation. It became an open-access online journal in 2008 and is listed as such by
 SHERPA/ROMEO (www.sherpa.ac.uk/romeo). All manuscripts published have the Creative
 Commons Attribution Non-Commercial 4.0 Licence (CC BY_NC 4.0) applied. Editors of the journal
 are members of the SoE Research Committee and provide input on scholarly communication and
 open-access issues within the SoE. The SoE adheres to the Ethical Guidelines for Educational
 Research of the British Educational Research Association (BERA).

 The University’s Library and Special Collections and Museums directorate leads in advocating for
 open research, and detailed guidance is provided by the Scholarly communications team. The
 library runs the University’s open-access repository of research, the Aberdeen University
 Research Archive (AURA). The University strongly advocates ORCiD registration. In UoA 23, 58%
 of staff currently have a PURE-linked ORCID identifier and 100% of CHERI staff currently have a
 PURE-linked ORCID identifier.

 Future Plans
 As noted previously, the SoE has undertaken a comprehensive review of its research activity
 and environment since REF2014 and has developed a research strategy that will form the vision
 for research developments in the School for the next five years. The research strategy takes into
 account the revised School structure, with four new departments and closer associations with

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CHERI. There are six distinct aspects to the five-year research strategy, each of which is linked
 to the others through clear elements of connectivity, alignment and participation. The six
 elements of the research strategy are Research Themes and Teams; Links to ITE, PGT and
 PGR; Researcher Development and Support; Public Profile; Education in the North; and REF. A
 research theme lead has been identified for each theme. They will coordinate events for the
 theme; communicate news in relation to events, funding opportunities and conferences; and take
 a key role in organising theme-related seminars. In addition, the SoE has created a new role of a
 Research Development and Support Lead (Gray) to work alongside the DoR. Their role will be
 to share external and internal researcher development and support opportunities; work closely
 with the DoR, theme leads and other relevant partners to identify researcher development and
 support opportunities to meet SoE staff development needs (e.g., writing, funding, public
 engagement and policy engagement workshops); meet with Early Career Researchers to
 identify/develop appropriate provisions to meet their needs; and monitor, evaluate and review
 provisions.

 CHERI is developing further research components to respond to the changing environment (e.g.,
 COVID-19) in supporting healthcare staff, wellbeing and resilience. This includes intervention
 development, collaborating with relevant departments within the University and with other
 universities and the private sector. The SoE and CHERI have plans for collaboration with the new
 Department of Counselling, Wellbeing and Educational Psychology to provide a strong bridge
 between the two Units currently operating on two campuses. This collaboration is an important
 component of the Unit’s research strategy over the next five years.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 The Unit presented for assessment to REF2021 differs significantly from that reviewed for
 REF2014. It includes, for the first time, researchers in CHERI, whose research was previously not
 included under any REF or RAE panel remit. In addition, there has been considerable staff
 turnover among education and medical education researchers since REF2014, and 40% of the
 submitted staff were recruited within the current assessment period, including all researchers
 within CHERI.

 Unlike the institutional REF eligible population but in line with other education departments, this
 unit of assessment is dominated by female researchers. The Unit also includes a higher
 percentage of part-time employees than the institutional baseline (40% compared to 5.5% across
 the total eligible population). The current age profile indicates the need for succession planning,
 which we have begun to address through our recent recruitment campaign.

 All researchers work within an environment that is closely involved with practitioners and
 professional development. The research processes and structures supporting them must therefore
 acknowledge the specific needs of practice-focused research and a considerable degree of part-
 time working. Both the SoE and CHERI achieve this by providing an enabling and collegiate
 environment that allows for the development of individual research portfolios within the wider
 context of the themes. This involves identification and recruitment of
     • talented researchers to strengthen existing capacity at early career stages (Darling-
         McQuistan, Barlow, Thomson, Ali and Stubbing). Newly appointed staff in both the SoE
         and CHERI are supported throughout their 3-year probation with a reduced teaching
         commitment;
     • researchers whose research background or professional experience lies outside or
         adjacent to mainstream education research (Abbot, Fahey-Palma, Wass);
     • researchers and practitioners whose professional background increases the Unit’s
         capacity to engage with non-academic stakeholders and for partnership working (Walker).
 There has also been active recruitment of academic staff to sustain and develop CHERI. Cleland
 led the centre from its inception until her departure in 2020, and her replacement is being actively
 recruited. Staff members (Stubbing, Hawick) have undertaken and achieved a PhD. Staff
 recruitment, in line with the University’s Aberdeen 2040 strategy and its IDR theme, is driven by a

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 combination of support for areas of research excellence and the identification of research interests
 that cross discipline boundaries (Ali, Stubbing, Walker and Wass).

 Within the research themes, we have focused on the development of researchers across the
 career stages as reflected in our record of successful promotion applications. This cycle has seen
 five colleagues promoted to Senior Lecturer (Ackland, Colucci-Gray, Mtika, Shanks, and
 Spratt), one to Reader (Ravet) and one to Professor (Gray).

 We have also focused on the development of academic leadership. Within the SoE, Gray has
 provided leadership as DoR for much of the assessment period and has recently handed over the
 role to Ravet, who now represents the School on the University’s Research Policy Committee.
 Ravet was a member of the workgroup on inclusivity that fed into the new strategic plan, Aberdeen
 2040 (see REF5a). Curtis chairs the Committee for Research Ethics and Governance in Arts,
 Social Sciences and Business and is a member of the University’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 Committee. Shanks is a member of the University’s Task and Finish Group on Research Culture,
 which is making recommendations on addressing inequalities within our research environment.

 The structures supporting staff development within the SoE and the SMMSN within which CHERI
 is located complement and amplify those described in REF5a and add discipline-specific
 knowledge and skills. As set out in REF5a, the University is a signatory to the Vitae Concordat to
 Support the Career Development of Researchers, and we have been successful in gaining the HR
 Excellence in Research Award in 2014, 2016 and 2018/19, demonstrating our alignment with the
 principles of the European Charter for Researchers and Code of Conduct for the Recruitment of
 Researchers.

 All staff members have completed equality and diversity training and unconscious bias training.
 Those involved in recruitment and the promotions board additionally complete specific equality
 and diversity training to inform their selection decisions. There was bespoke EDI training for staff
 involved in REF decision-making, including selection of the output portfolio.

 Research leave is available to all research-active staff on a four-yearly basis, in line with the
 revised University-wide policy. In addition, the SoE initiated a mini-leave policy, which was
 subsequently adopted and included in the wider University’s research leave policy (2019). The
 mini-leave policy enables staff to take short, protected periods of uninterrupted leave for a period
 of two to four weeks to complete time-limited targets, such as funding application or publishing
 deadlines. In the current REF period, five staff members have benefited from a full semester of
 research leave (Graham, Ackland, Shanks, Martin and Cornelius) and one was granted mini-
 research leave (Curtis).

 CHERI benefits from the wider research environment and support mechanisms within SMMSN.
 All probationary staff are assigned a probationary mentor as well as the standard line manager
 and set carefully scheduled probationary objectives. Once beyond probation, staff are assigned a
 grant-writing mentor to overcome any extended challenges in securing funding.

 Graduate Students
 PGR students are of vital importance to a sustainable and vibrant research environment.
 Compared to the previous assessment period, the number of PGR students associated with the
 SoE has grown 52.2%, from 44 in the previous assessment period to 67 in the current assessment
 period, and the number of doctoral degrees awarded has more than doubled, from 14.5 to 35.99.

 The selection of candidates is managed through the University’s Postgraduate Research School
 (PGRS) after open competition (see REF5a). Candidates submit a proposal matched against the
 strategic aims of the Schools and the interests of individual staff members. Interviews are held
 with at least two staff members. The selection of candidates is based on strict criteria through an
 assessment of academic ability and motivation to complete a PhD. The SoE currently hosts 40
 headcount (h/c) doctoral students, and CHERI hosts 48 PGR students, including those in the PGR
 Clinical Education course. These graduate students include those who are campus-based and

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 those who participate through distance, home and international learning. During the assessment
 period, all doctoral candidates completed their studies on time. Since its inception, CHERI has
 attracted high-calibre PhD candidates, including the first inaugural UK Intercollegiate Research
 Fellow (Scrimgeour), and over half have received awards (e.g., travelling fellowships and travel
 grants to develop and promote their research).

 Both the SoE and CHERI host a culturally rich postgraduate environment. The current SoE
 research student enrolment draws from a wide range of countries, including Thailand, Greece,
 Malawi, Nigeria, Iran, Malta, Brunei and China. CHERI hosts PhD students from Kuwait, Saudi
 Arabia, Malawi and the Netherlands. Both the SoE and CHERI hold arrangements for joint
 international PhD supervisions, for example, with King Said University in UAE, and joint Master’s
 programmes with two Chinese universities (SoE) and Canada, Australia and the Netherlands
 (CHERI).

 During the PhD induction process, students and supervisors create a personal development plan.
 Training needs are recorded and revisited through regular meetings, at least monthly, with
 supervisors. Formal assessment of student progress takes place after nine months and annually
 thereafter. Assessment is through written work and a viva with two staff members. Students are
 supported through the University’s PGRS, which provides formal Research Training and Graduate
 Skills. The PGRS also delivers supervisor training, which is compulsory for all new supervisors,
 with top-up training required every five years. In addition, training is offered to all supervisors on
 specific issues, including on student mental health and ethics. The SoE is also an ESRC-
 recognised Doctoral Training Centre and a member of the SGSSS, the UK's largest facilitator of
 funding, training and support for doctoral students in social science.

 In addition to training available through the PGRS, CHERI provides courses/training as required
 by a focus on PhD projects (e.g., Scanlan did a 3-day course on working with discrete choice
 experiments, Alharbi and Scrimgeour did two 3-day courses on statistics and advanced statistics).
 In March 2017, several students attended a 3.5-day writing workshop in Maastricht, the
 Netherlands (Stubbing, Scanlan, Kumwenda, Scrimgeour and Al-harbi). All CHERI postgraduate
 students have had work accepted for presentation at national and international conferences
 including the Association for Medical Education Europe (AMEE) and the Association for the Study
 of Medical Education (ASME). All students are supported to attend at least one overseas and one
 national meeting during their PhD studies. CHERI actively promotes international networks among
 their PGR community, such as through the “Rogano” meeting. The Rogano meeting occurs
 annually alongside the AMEE meeting, with invited research teams from the UK, the Netherlands,
 Sweden, Denmark, Finland and Canada. The focus of the meeting is to promote the development
 of PhD students and postdoctoral researchers within a climate of high-level, international scholarly
 debate.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Income
 External research funding is vital for the delivery of our research projects within the SoE and
 CHERI. Researchers in both units are closely allied with professions, and their work focuses on
 providing evidence that informs change in policy and practice, exploring emerging issues and
 evaluating and testing current practice. Impact is realised in partnership with research users and
 stakeholders and is often delivered by interdisciplinary teams. Staff within the Unit are encouraged
 to take advantage of the workshops and events organised by the Grants Academy (see REF5a).

 During the assessment period, research income for this Unit has grown by 65%, compared to
 sector growth for research income in HESA cost centre 135 Education (5.9% between 2013/14
 and 2018/19). The average annual research income per eligible FTE for REF2014 was GBP11.2k;
 for REF2021 it is GBP32.3k, indicating a substantial growth in externally funded research activity.
 More than half of the research income during the assessment period came from UK government
 and health authorities, although a substantial proportion (17.3%) came from the EU. Compared to
 the previous assessment period, where the income from UK government and health authorities

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 constituted 87% of research income, we have diversified our funding portfolio through participation
 in a larger number of international projects funded by the EU and through the Global Challenges
 Research Fund (GCRF) programme of UK Research and Innovation (UKRI). The relatively high
 proportion of funding from UK government and health authorities is indicative of our close working
 relationship with local authorities, NHS, GMC, Royal Colleges and MSC. Our funding strategy for
 the coming assessment period is to continue to work closely with our core stakeholders and to
 increase the interdisciplinary and international activities in our portfolio.

 Abbot, Mtika and Ackland have secured Scottish Government funding of GBP1,191,795 for
 “Fostering a Social Practices Approach to Adult Literacies for Improving People's Wellbeing in
 Western Rwanda”. This award strengthens the International Studies of Social and Educational
 Development theme of research. Similarly, Cornelius, Foy and Mulligan secured GBP38,153 of
 European funding to engage with Professional Learning in Complex Settings Through Reflection
 and Portfolio (Prolea); this aligns with the Teacher Education and Professional Development
 theme. Other European projects have included Gray and Bain obtaining GBP32,694 to participate
 in the e-Info-TED initiative, and Smith and Nixon’s GBP45,430 Sharing Experiences of and
 Approaches to Teacher Education in the Context of Education and Training 2020. Shanks
 obtained GBP3,380 as part of the Scottish Government funded Measuring Quality in Initial
 Teacher Education (MQUITE) initiative.

 In the Pedagogy and Digital Learning theme within the School, Colucci-Gray and Gray received
 a prestigious BERA Research Commission award for GBP11,870 for “Reviewing the Potential and
 Challenges of Developing Steam Education through Creative Pedagogies for 21st Century
 Learning”. The exploration of the arts component of pedagogies continued with Curtis and
 Barlow’s GBP45,919 AHRC award for “Enacting the Past: Stories from the Colony to the Tatras”.
 Curtis received GBP1,657 from Aberdeen Performing Arts for “Exploring the Experiences and
 Meaning Making of Participants in the Music Hall Babies”, a multi-arts project. Cornelius and
 Shanks were awarded GBP10,000 from the European Commission for their investigation into
 “Mobile Learning in Higher Education (Mine)”.

 A further strand related to pedagogies in this theme is explored in Gray’s work into forestry, nature
 and outdoor learning-related issues. This includes GBP17,000 from Forestry Commission
 Scotland, GBP4,000 from the Scottish Forestry Trust for “Exploring Educational Provision in
 Scottish Schools for Career Paths in the 21st Century Multifunctional Forestry”, and GBP7,895
 from Forestry Commission Scotland for “A Review of the Natural Partners Initial Teacher
 Education Training Programme 2012-17”. Gray and Colucci-Gray received GBP7,367 from an
 external collaborator, One Seed Forward, for the “School Gardens Project”, examining the
 implementation of school gardens in areas of multiple deprivation in Aberdeen City, which was
 twice mentioned in the Scottish Parliament.

 In the Social and Educational Inclusion theme, Colucci-Gray, Ravet, Beaton and Spratt received
 GBP9,992 from the Educational Institute of Scotland for “Changes in, and Variations of, Provision
 of Learning Support for Pupils in Scotland”. Thomson received GBP42,577 from the Nuffield
 Foundation for “Choice and Progression in the Transition from Secondary Education: The
 Experience of GCSE Lower Attainers and the Potential for Change at the City-Region Level”.
 Graham, Mtika, Robson, and McDougal obtained GBP50,000 from the Scottish Government’s
 attainment challenge funding to research the “Pedagogies for Educational Inclusion of Pupils
 Living in Poverty”. Ackland, Aldred, Cornelius, Stephen and Thomson were awarded
 GBP36,782 of European funding for “PROMISE (Promoting Inclusion in Society through
 Education: Professional Dilemmas in Practice)”. Shanks received GBP14,998 from the
 Aberdeenshire Community Planning Partnership for research into health and social care.

 CHERI’s research focuses on issues around selection for medical schools and widening access
 as well as professional training for clinicians and healthcare professionals. Under Cleland’s
 leadership, CHERI undertook the following major projects: “Improving Surgical Training
 Assessment” (Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh, GBP60,000); “Integrated Surgery Training
 Evaluation Project” (NHS Education for Scotland, GBP20,000); “Qualitative Exploration of the

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Pharmacy and Pharmacy Technician VT Foundation Programme: Are These Fit for Purpose?”
 (NHS Education for Scotland, GBP40,000); “The Use of Contextual Data in Medical School
 Selection Processes: A Mixed-Method Programme of Research” (Medical Schools Council,
 GBP22,370, in partnership with Queen Mary University of London and Edgehill University);
 “Supporting Wider Access to Medicine” (UKCAT, GBP66,902, in partnership with the University of
 Southampton and Queen Mary University of London) and “Addressing Inequalities in the Provision
 of Pharmaceutical Services in Scotland: A Proof of Concept Study of Telepharmacy in Rural
 Scotland” (Scottish Government – Chief Scientist Office, GBP72,949, in partnership with the
 Universities of Edinburgh and Glasgow). Wass is co-investigator on “Connecting Healthcare”,
 funded by Goonhilly Earth Station Ltd. Walker is principal investigator on “To develop evidence-
 based interventions to support doctor’s wellbeing and promote resilience during COVID-19”
 funded by the Scottish Government’s Chief Scientist Office GBP223,600, under their rapid
 response programme). The University’s Development Trust also invested GBP132k in a research
 fellowship at the start-up of CHERI.

 Interdisciplinarity and Impact Infrastructure
 During the assessment period and following an institutional review on how IDR and impact are
 supported, both the SoE and CHERI have used recruitment and collaboration to add research
 capacity and disciplinary breadth. IDR and impact generation have been promoted through annual
 research reviews, undertaken by academic line managers. The scope and ambition of the projects
 undertaken by the Unit emphasise their capacity for interdisciplinary working and partnership
 working. For example, with a disciplinary background in sociology, Abbott brings a wide range of
 research experience around democratisation, human rights, good governance and socio-
 economic recovery to the Adult Literacy project in Western Rwanda, as well a wealth of experience
 partnership working in DAC countries. Fahey-Palma has brought her linguistics background to
 investigate power, hierarchy and team roles in cancer multidisciplinary meetings, funded by the
 Scottish Medical Research Consortium.

 Throughout the current assessment period, the University has run various pump-priming schemes
 to support impact and interdisciplinary working (see REF5a). Gray was given support from the
 Principal’s Interdisciplinary Fund to realise the impact described in an impact case study
 [Engagement with the Natural Environment] and for a project [Creating STEAM from STEM];
 Shanks received support to attend a conference and networking event from the Principal’s
 Excellence Fund; and Hawick, a part-time staff member and part-time PhD student in CHERI, was
 awarded funds to supplement her prestigious travel fellowship from The Clinical Teacher’ journal,
 to present her work at the University of Ottawa, The Wilson Centre Toronto, McGill University
 Montreal and the University of Western Ontario.

 Support Structures
 Within the SoE, the DoR, through the Research Committee, manages the research strands of the
 strategic and operational plan. The SoE’s Research Committee consists of staff and student
 representatives of key constituencies of the School, including representation from each of the key
 research areas, and PGRs, as well as the central research support office and the library. In
 addition, the School’s academic research journal, Education in the North is represented. The
 Research Committee has an annual allocated budget to provide opportunities for staff to attend
 conferences, share ideas, network with international colleagues, and access data analysis support
 and research method training. Applications for funding are reviewed on an individual basis by a
 team, including research student representatives. Weekly research seminars host outside
 presenters, including internationally renowned colleagues for staff and research students to share
 their work.

 The successful achievement of goal transparency to grow our inclusive research culture has been
 informed by an annual audit of research activity to ensure a research-aware staff; the
 establishment of a School research office with dedicated staff to provide an administrative focus
 for research activity; the dissemination of relevant and targeted information and support in linking
 the research themes and outputs; and a dynamic Knowledge Exchange system that allows an
 effective two-way flow of information and ideas between the School and its external partners. The

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 School has also operated a very successful research and scholarship mentoring scheme for
 several years. These actions support the prioritisation of research and scholarship as core work
 within the School.

 Research Ethics and Open Access
 A centrally coordinated system of managing research ethics is in place for all staff and student
 research, with dedicated School staff overseeing and supporting the ethics applications to ensure
 that all ethical issues have been addressed. Ethical guidelines of the Scottish Educational
 Research Association (SERA) and BERA are strictly followed. Curtis chairs the Committee for
 Research Ethics and Governance in Arts, Social Sciences and Business, one of five non-clinical
 ethics committees within the University and acts as the School Ethics Officer. In her capacity as
 chair, she provides advice on ethics and integrity and reviews School research governance “health
 checks”, a system of self-assessment undertaken biennially by Schools to ensure compliance with
 the UK Research and Integrity Office (UKRIO) Concordat for Research Integrity. She reports
 directly to the Dean of Cultural Strategy and Research Governance. All research-active staff
 members have completed the compulsory online ethics training; a compulsory training module on
 research integrity is currently being introduced.

 We recognise that research impact requires effective engagement and dissemination. At the
 beginning of the assessment period, open-access compliance for journal articles across the
 School was 25%. Working with colleagues in the Office of Research and Innovation and the
 Scholarly Communications Unit in the library, the SoE and CHERI increased compliance by raising
 awareness and promoting the open-access services provided centrally. In 2019 and 2020, the
 compliance rate for all journal articles (including reviews and papers that are not REF eligible) was
 70%. In addition, the SoE hosts Education in the North, which became an open-access publication
 in 2008 and will become an indexed journal in 2021 (Portico). The representation of this journal’s
 board on the Research Committee within the SoE ensures that open access and effective
 dissemination remain on the agenda for the committee.

 In addition to specific support for impact and commercialisation offered by the Office of Research
 and Innovation, support for engagement with research is offered through the Public Engagement
 with Research Unit (PERU), (see REF5a). Within the assessment period, the PERU team has
 worked with researchers and staff within the SoE to widely disseminate and promote public
 awareness of research and scholarly activity undertaken in the SoE. A notable example of this is
 McLennan’s Play4Peace, which stemmed from his work on the war poet, Wilfred Owen. Since his
 first publication in 2010 on Wilfred Owen's re-education, McLennan has shifted narratives on
 socio-cultural influences on the war poet and his work. The research led to a sequence of events
 in 2017 that engaged 25 stakeholder organisations and over 11,000 people and a trail of new
 memorials across the country on Scotland's war poetry contribution, impacting our environmental
 and civic spaces and memorialisation. In addition, the model McLennan devised is an
 international, intergenerational and interdisciplinary creative cooperative and has reshaped
 aspects of remembrance, engaging and impacting 45 global locations in 2018, 47 locations in
 2019 and 167.6 million people in 2020.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Unit researchers make a significant contribution to the discipline and research base for education
 through an extensive range of activities on a regional, national and international level. Support is
 provided for networking and collaboration activities through the DoR and the Research
 Administration, along with central support from the Office of Research and Innovation and the
 Grants Academy. Within the SoE, this has involved networking events and associated seminars
 to enable a sharing of expertise and interests. Within the University, staff have had the opportunity
 to participate in networking and sandpit activities in the development of ideas and funding
 applications. There are 79 records of staff having participated in 55 events held by the Grants
 Academy.



                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School has expertise in qualitative, quantitative and mixed-methods research, and staff have
 published articles that exemplify methodological pluralism. Aberdeen has become an important
 centre for international and UK scholarship focusing on professional practices. Our profile
 embraces the local community for example Shanks collaborated with Aberdeenshire Health
 Services to explore “Health and Social Care for Older People in Marr in the 2020s”. At national
 level, Ravet is a member of the Scottish Autism Research Group (SARG), Graham belongs to the
 Scottish Universities Inclusion Group (SUIG) Mapping Project, Gray is a member of Natural
 England’s Strategic Research Group for Learning in Natural Environments and Martin is involved
 with subgroups in the Scottish Government’s National Improvement Framework. Examples of our
 international profile include Gray and Bain serving as Council members for the International Forum
 for Teacher Educator Development; Shanks taking up a visiting lectureship at the Inland
 University of Norway of Applied Sciences; Abbott being invited by DG-Near-Neighbourhood
 Enlargement Negotiations, TAIEX Training, to be an adviser at a workshop in Rabat, Morocco;
 and Ravet’s involvement in an international multidisciplinary collaboration with five partners in
 Cambodia, resulting in the formation of the “Inclusion in Cambodia Research Group”.

 Staff make significant contributions to informing policy and professional practice through their
 participation and contribution in different forums. For example, several staff have been involved in
 discussions in the Scottish Government’s Academic Reference Group (Gray, Graham), with the
 General Teaching Council for Scotland (Shanks, Bain) and with Education Scotland (Martin). In
 addition, many staff have been invited to make significant keynote presentations, for example,
 Ravet’s keynote presentations at the University of Angers, France, and the Scottish Autism
 Conference in Glasgow, 2018. Barlow presented a keynote address and workshop at the Applied
 Drama Forum – The Third National Conference on Drama and Education in October 2019. Other
 keynote presentations include Shanks at the Norwegian Mentoring Network 2018 and Cornelius
 in 2017 at the University of the Highlands and Islands Symposium: Teaching and Learning with
 synchronous technologies.

 Staff involved in editorial boards of journals at international and national levels include Abbott,
 Learning and Teaching in Higher Education in the Social Sciences; Cornelius, Research in
 Learning Technology; Gray and Colucci-Gray, The Scottish Educational Review, Visions for
 Sustainability, and Sisyphus-Journal of Education; and Ravet, The Sage Handbook of Autism &
 Education 2016. Shanks was guest editor of the International Journal of Mentoring and Coaching
 in Education.

 Staff also referee for over 50 journals, of which at least 20 are international including, for example,
 Ackland, International Journal of Research in Adults Learning Mathematics, Internet and Higher
 Education and Studies in the Education of Adults; Cornelius, Research in Learning Technology,
 British Journal of Educational Technology, Journal of Vocational Education and Training, IRRODL
 (International Review of Research in Online and Distance Learning), Scandinavian Journal of
 Educational Research and Studies in Continuing Education; Gray, The Journal of Environmental
 Education, European Journal of Teacher Education, Journal of Education for Teaching, British
 Educational Research Journal and Journal of Science Teacher Education; Martin, Teacher
 Development: an International journal of teachers’ professional development, British Congress of
 Mathematics Education (BCME) and Scottish Educational Review; Ravet, Journal of Research in
 Special Educational Needs and International Journal of Inclusive Education; and Shanks, Africa
 Education Review, Cambridge Journal of Education, Education + Training, European Journal of
 Teacher Education, International Journal of Mentoring and Coaching in Education, International
 Journal of Training and Development, Multicultural Perspectives, NordSTEP the Nordic Journal of
 Studies in Educational Policy, Professional Development in Education, Scottish Educational
 Review and Studies in Higher Education.

 CHERI staff (Cleland, Hawick, Stubbing, Walker, Wass, Ali and Cameron) are also reviewers
 for high-impact-factor journals including Medical Education, Medical Teacher, Academic Medicine
 (US based), BMJ Open and BMC Medical Education. Cleland, Walker and Wass are reviewers
 of abstracts for national and international conferences. CHERI is represented at all major


                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 conferences (e.g., ASME, AMEE and Ottawa) and key development meetings (e.g., Rogano and
 InReSH).

 SoE staff also review grant bids for major funding councils. For example Abbott has reviewed for
 Kazakhstan, National Centre of Science and Technology Evaluation, The Netherlands
 Organisation for Scientific Research, Czech Science Foundation, DfID East African Research
 Fund (reviewer and expert adviser), UKDH (funding committee member), the National Institute for
 Health Research, Research for Innovation and Global Health Transformation (RIGHT), ESRC
 Peer Review College, the GCRF and the ESRC GCRF Early Childhood Education (funding panel
 member); Gray has reviewed grant proposals for the Swiss National Science Foundation (SNSF)
 2016, 2017, the US National Science Foundation, the ESRC and the Social Sciences and
 Humanities Research Council (SSHRC), Canada.

 Staff undertaking recent PhD examinations include Ackland, University of Bolton (faculty member
 PhD student); Gray, the University of Stirling (2018) and the University of Edinburgh (2018); and
 Ravet, Southampton University (2018), Exeter University (2018) and Exeter University (2019).

 Active participation in international research networks is extensive. Gray, for example, is a
 founding and continuing council member for the International Forum for Teacher Educator
 Development. He is also an active member of Natural England’s Strategic Research Network for
 People and Nature. Barlow is involved in collaborative research with the Royal Conservatoire
 Scotland and New York University into Verbatim Performance. Darling-McQuistan is a member
 of the Social Justice and Diversity Network of the University of the Arctic (UArctic). Cornelius and
 Shanks are involved in the MINE project (Mobile Learning in Higher Education) with colleagues
 in Austria, Germany, Greece and Portugal. Ravet is involved with a Cambodian research team
 studying inclusion in rural schools. Abbott, Mtika and Ackland are collaborating with the Institute
 of Policy Analysis and Research-Rwanda, the University of Rwanda College of Education and
 Rubengera, Gacuba II and Mururu Teacher Training Colleges on Fostering a Social Practice
 Approach to Adult Literacies for Improving People’s Quality of Life in Western Rwanda.

 CHERI has substantial connections with other centres across the world. Cleland is adjunct
 professor at Curtin Medical School, Australia; the University of Southampton, Monash, Australia,
 and Uniformed Services, USA. Cleland is also an invited member of the International Society for
 Cost and Value in Health Professions Education, Wilson Centre, Toronto, Canada. Many staff
 have additional roles that exemplify the expertise within the centre for example Walker, (2017)
 Cleland (2015) and Johnston (2019) all have been awarded NES Medical Directorate Awards
 for Scholarship, the most at any one centre/institution. Cleland was an AMEE committee
 member (2018); one of the 20 Inaugural Fellows of the Association for Medical Education
 Europe; and Chair of the AMEE Research Committee (2015). Walker is the Director of
 Publications, ASME and Hawick and Cameron are both members of the ASME Education
 Development Committee.




                                                                                             Page 13
