Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Glasgow (UofG)

 Unit of Assessment:19 Politics and International Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Unit context and structure
 Politics and International Studies at the UofG is a diverse, collegial community of 41 Category A
 staff, six further post-doctoral researchers, nine teaching-specialised lecturers and 53
 postgraduate research students, concentrated in two closely connected “Subjects” within the
 School of Social and Political Sciences: Politics & International Relations (PIR) and Central & East
 European Studies (CEES). The School is one of five in the wider College of Social Sciences
 (hereafter, “the College”), one of four colleges in the University.

 Our mission is to conduct innovative research that has academic and real-world impact locally,
 nationally and internationally. To achieve this, we aim to provide an inclusive, supportive
 environment that enables all staff to flourish.

 We have particular expertise in Comparative Politics on the quality of democracy,
 authoritarianism, immigration and refugees; in International Relations on emotions, war and the
 European Union’s external relations; and in Area Studies on the politics of China and Russia,
 Central and East Europe, Central Asia and Latin America.

 Internally, three research clusters, in Comparative Politics, International Relations and Area
 Studies, provide peer-to-peer feedback forums that are a fundamental part of our supportive
 research environment (Section 2.1.2).

 We lead three collaborative, interdisciplinary research centres:

 •   The Centre for Russian, Central and East European Studies (CRCEES), established in 2006
     as a UK government-funded Language-Based Area Studies centre of excellence.
 •   The Scottish Centre for China Research (SCCR), established in 2008, bringing together
     researchers from the social sciences and arts who work on China in Scotland.
 •   The Glasgow Baltic Research Unit (GBRU), established in 2003 to study Estonia, Latvia and
     Lithuania and their links to the surrounding region and wider Europe. It brings together Baltic
     specialists from the social sciences and arts.

 We lead four local networks that foster interdisciplinary research collaborations: the Glasgow Latin
 American Research Network, the South European Research Network, the Glasgow Human Rights
 Network, and the Glasgow Emotions Network.

 Over the REF period we have led two public engagement bodies that facilitate our knowledge
 exchange and impact (Section 4.4.1):
 • The Stevenson Trust for Citizenship, whose remit is to inform and engage the public about
    “the international, national and local issues of the day.”
 • The John Smith Centre for Public Service, which promotes trust in politics and public service.

 We also lead the Glasgow Q-Step Centre, which helps us to deliver research training to staff and
 postgraduate researchers (PGRs) at Glasgow and across the UK.

 1.2 Research and impact strategy, 2014–2020
 Politics and International Studies at Glasgow has been transformed since REF2014, thanks to an
 ambitious strategy founded on outstanding appointments (Section 2.1), extensive support for
 research and impact (Section 2.1.2), and a commitment to equality and diversity (Section 2.3).
 Retaining our friendly and inclusive culture, we have grown (from 24 Category A staff in 2014, to
 41 in 2020, including nine from CEES) into a vibrant unit, with a strong international orientation,
 that tackles some of the major political issues of our age.


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Following a post-REF2014 review, our priority objectives were to:

 (1) Make a step change in providing research support, so that all staff can achieve ambitious
     research goals and win the funding they need to conduct world-leading research. Through
     actions set out in Section 2.1.2, headline outcomes include successful career development
     evidenced by 30 staff promotions and 78% of staff holding grants over the REF period,
     equitably distributed by gender and career stage.

 (2) Better support our researchers to achieve real-world impact. As detailed in Section 2.1.3,
     we adopted new practices and provided training to encourage and support impact-related
     work. We supported staff to deepen and extend relationships with key partners, notably the
     Scottish Government, the UK Ministry of Defence (MoD), EU bodies, the Organisation for
     Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) in
     East Europe and Latin America. We did this through secondments, by investing in staff time
     and travel to co-produce research and participate in international knowledge exchange events,
     and by organising joint events with non-academic partners (Section 4.2). This approach
     contributed to our four impact case studies (ICSs), which involve partners in the UK, EU and
     internationally. They also facilitated several other developing impact projects related to
     environmental governance in China, refugee reception in Europe, and illicit drug economies in
     the Global South.

 (3) Invest in international, collaborative research by building on existing strengths. We
     used our research centres and strategic institutional partnerships to foster major collaborations
     (Section 4.1) and to support staff in leading or joining significant projects that extend our
     international reach.

 We also deepened collaboration between PIR and CEES, which were submitted separately to
 UoAs 21 and 27 in REF2014, so that interdisciplinary area studies and local language knowledge
 complement and inform our “large-n”, cross-national comparative research. Researchers in both
 Subjects study China, Russia, Central and East Europe and Central Asia and we have
 strengthened our research in the international relations of these regions, including through a joint
 PIR-CEES appointment. We have worked together on a joint Erasmus+ Jean Monnet Research
 Network grant, joint contributions to the UofG’s Graduate School in China (the UK’s first), joint
 PGR supervision of 12 students, PIR presence (five colleagues) on the Editorial Board of CEES’
 flagship journal, Europe-Asia Studies, and many joint writing retreats, research seminars and
 cluster meetings.

 At the same time, and benefitting from objectives (1), (2) and (3):

 In Comparative Politics we sought to become a leading centre of research on the quality of
 democracy, with a particular focus on elections and referenda, immigration, populism and
 democratic backsliding. We invested in three professors, four lecturers and one Postdoctoral
 Fellow (PDF) (Peace, Co-I on the international collaborative project “Governance and the Local
 Integration of Migrants and Europe’s Refugees” (‘GLIMER’, ESRC, £1.2 million). Outcomes
 include major new programmes of research, including Carman’s (as Co-I, ESRC, £473k) on the
 Scottish Referendum, Karyotis’ on attitudes toward migrants (ESRC & AHRC, £300k), Pardos-
 Prado’s on the rise of populist parties in Europe (Volkswagen Stiftung, £880k), and Neundorf’s
 ground-breaking project, “Democracy Under Threat: How Education Can Save It” (ERC, £1.4
 million).

 In International Relations we built critical mass in normative IR theory and extended the impact
 of our research through appointments in traditional and non-traditional security and international
 political economy. We invested in a professor, six lecturers and one PDF. This strengthened our
 engagement with the MoD and NATO, DfID (now FCD) and the World Bank (Heuser, Reinsberg),
 building on the pioneering work of Carbone with the EU that contributes one of our impact case
 studies (Section 4.2), and our work on the role of emotions in international relations, which includes
 Head’s distinctive project “Empathy under Fire” (Leverhulme, £53k) and Crilley’s research on

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 “Narratives of Nuclear Weapons: How Emotions Shape Deterrence and Disarmament”
 (Leverhulme, £91k).

 In interdisciplinary and language-based Area Studies we extended our linguistic capacity and
 regional expertise on Russia and Eurasia and deepened our China and Latin American research
 capacity. Attentive to sustainability as staff were promoted, we appointed three lecturers and five
 PDFs. Our staff have made distinctive contributions to understanding the role of ethnic minorities
 in post-Cold War Central and East Europe (Smith, ESRC, £622k), how elections and public goods
 provision underpin authoritarian resilience in Russia and China (White, Munro and Duckett, ESRC,
 £457k; Duckett, Marie Curie, £237k), and how communities negotiate and experience scarce
 environmental resources in Latin America (Hume, ESRC, £147k).

 Across the Unit as a whole, tangible outcomes include:
    • 830 publications, including 31 monographs, 467 peer-reviewed journal articles and 143
        book chapters, only a fraction of which have been submitted for REF2021.
    • Doubling the value of our research grants and research income, a significant increase in
        the proportion of staff holding research grants, and grant success distributed across
        colleagues at different career stages (Section 3.3).

 1.3 A commitment to interdisciplinary research
 We conduct interdisciplinary research when investigating questions that demand a mix of skills
 and expertise, and we take a multi-pronged approach:
     • employing researchers trained in multiple disciplines, whose work intersects with sociology
        (Cheskin), gender studies (Hume), history (Heuser, Loader), public health (Duckett), and
        philosophy (Knight), and/or draws on interdisciplinary language-based Area Studies
        training (e.g., Aliyev, Anceschi, Prina, Smith, Snape, Szostek).
     • leading major interdisciplinary research centres and networks (Section 1.1) and
        participating in others: the Global Security Network (Smith, Head), the Glasgow Refugee,
        Asylum and Migration Network (GRAMNet, Peace), the Glasgow Centre for International
        Development (Hume), and the Political Philosophy and Theory Group (Knight, Wright).
     • forming interdisciplinary research collaborations with partners who bring diverse skills and
        knowledge to data gathering and analysis.
     • training new generations of interdisciplinary researchers (Section 4.5).

 As a result, staff have participated in 30 interdisciplinary research projects worth £7.2 million over
 the REF period (see Section 4.6). We estimate that we have published 244 papers in
 interdisciplinary journals (52% of our 467 papers).

 1.6 Research objectives, 2021–27
 Despite the current uncertainties, our priorities over the next seven years are to:

 (1) Make new appointments that consolidate our strengths and extend our expertise in
     political communication, democratic backsliding and authoritarianism, and digital and
     computational methods.
 (2) Find more innovative ways to support research and impact, particularly for our mid-career
     cohort. E.g. make greater use of personal development planning for career progression;
     encourage further take-up of leadership training; generate opportunities for collaborative
     research with interdisciplinary and external partners; offer bespoke workshops and peer-based
     learning to help staff win the grant income they need for outstanding research and impact.
 (3) Work further to increase equality and diversity. We will actively contribute to our School’s
     Equality and Diversity Group, which we initiated in 2020 to examine and improve practices in
     recruitment, employment and decolonising the curriculum. We will pursue equality by striving
     for fair and transparent workload distributions that prioritise staff wellbeing. We will try to
     reduce precarity by minimising our use of fixed-term contracts, and by providing career
     planning and training for contract researchers. We will also reduce barriers to employment
     caused by disability and chronic illness, working closely with the University’s Occupational


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Health Service, and offering flexible working options, particularly for those with invisible
     disabilities.
 (4) Develop an environmental sustainability plan, identifying ways of working that allow us to thrive
     while also reducing our carbon emissions and implementing the UofG’s climate change strategy
     and action plan

 1.4 Progress toward an open research environment
 We aim to make our research as accessible as possible. We take full advantage of UofG Library’s
 customised support service to make our articles fully accessible within three months of acceptance
 for publication, via either the University’s institutional repository, negotiation with journals or
 purchase of gold standard open access using the £1 million annual UKRI and Charity Open
 Access budgets.

 All our Unit’s staff and PGRs attend data management training and understand open access
 requirements. We all have an ORCID. In the 2015–2018 Leiden Rankings for Social Sciences and
 Humanities (which include P&IS), UofG was ranked ninth in the world for open access, up from
 25th place in 2011–2014. The share of our Unit’s publications that are open access has risen each
 year over the REF period, from 20% in 2014 to 78% in 2020. Of our published journal articles,
 93% were open access in 2020, up from 34% in 2014.

 We encourage staff to share datasets via the UK Data Service and other open online platforms.
 Our Unit’s researchers have deposited 13 datasets in the UK Data Service over the REF period,
 a further 12 on fully open personal or university platforms, four on Harvard University Dataverse,
 one on Figshare and one with the British Journal of Political Science. These datasets have
 generated at least 1,261 downloads and 1,187 views across all platforms within the REF period.

 1.5 Research integrity
 Our Unit has a strong commitment to research integrity (RI), and takes full advantage of UofG’s
 externally recognised RI provision, which includes a College RI Champion and School RI Adviser
 to oversee the delivery of RI training for staff and students. This training, which is now standard
 for our new recruits covers topics such as good practice in data management and curation, and
 depositing datasets in open access repositories. 40% of current staff have taken it.

 All research by staff or doctoral students involving human participants, material or data must be
 approved by the College Research Ethics Committee. Support is available from a School Ethics
 Officer, who provides briefings and advice for staff and students.

 We take allegations of research misconduct seriously and deal with them under the University’s
 Code of Policy and Procedures for Investigating Allegations of Misconduct in Research.


 2. People
 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Our Unit’s staffing strategy has been an important part of our wider strategy (Section 1.2) and
 underpins our efforts to foster equality and diversity. It can be summarised as:

 1. recruiting and retaining research and impact leaders in areas that develop our strengths and
    skill-sets;
 2. investing in training and support for all our researchers, to provide career development and
    enhance retention;
 3. working to improve equality and our diversity in research careers through recruitment and by
    providing a supportive and inclusive environment that pays particular attention to developing
    the careers of early career researchers (ECRs) or those on short-term contracts and those
    with protected characteristics (Section 2.3).




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.1.1 Recruiting and retaining research and impact leaders
 We have appointed 24 outstanding colleagues since 2014. Ten new open-ended positions and
 seven fixed-term, competitively-funded PDFs over the period (two completed), plus one retirement
 and the departure of eight colleagues, have enabled transformative change. In hiring new
 colleagues, we sought to enhance leadership through senior appointments, while building future
 sustainability by recruiting outstanding ECRs. We added impact experience as an appointment
 criterion alongside a strong track record of academic publication. In total, we recruited four
 professors, 13 lecturers and seven PDFs funded on competitive awards: three Lord Kelvin Adam
 Smith Fellows, two Leverhulme Fellows, one British Academy Fellow, and one ESRC GCRF
 Fellow.

 We sought to retain colleagues by minimising the use of short-term contracts and where possible
 helping to progress to long-term positions. We appointed only two fixed-term lecturers during the
 REF period. Of the five PDFs who completed their externally-funded fellowships during the REF
 period, two were retained on permanent contracts, one as a PDRA, and two took up positions
 elsewhere. We have adopted targeted training and development of postdoctoral research
 assistants to support their retention and career progression.

 2.1.2 Investing in training and support for all our researchers
 Supporting and developing all our staff has remained a key goal in the REF2021 period. We are
 implementing the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers by providing a
 wide range of skills development, supporting experience in non-academic sectors through
 secondments, and encouraging ten days per annum of CPD.

 We actively support each individual to develop their research agenda, skills, and opportunities for
 collaboration. Through annual Performance and Development Review (P&DR) we provide regular
 opportunities for staff to seek advice, request training and plan for career development. Over the
 REF period, 32 of our Category A staff have taken at least 68 research and leadership training
 courses on topics including Situational Leadership, Project Management, Winning Grant Income,
 Quantitative Text Analysis, Social Media Research and Research Impact.

 Research support is delivered through College and Unit mechanisms, with the Unit’s two Research
 Conveners providing coordination and leadership. In this way we provide our researchers with:

 •   Administrative support: our College of Social Sciences Research Support Office provides
     extensive support, including grant skills training and pre- and post-award support (see Section
     3.1).

 •   Time: all staff on Research and Teaching contracts have 30% of their time allocated to
     research unless additionally funded by external grants. To make this possible, we hired nine
     teaching-focussed lecturers and six tutors, as well as around ten GTAs each year. Nine
     research assistants and interns – PGRs hired through the UofG Internship Hub – have
     provided short-term research and administrative support to our researchers, centres, networks
     and projects. Where possible, we also allow staff to concentrate their teaching in one
     semester.

 •   Study Leave: we operate an inclusive and equitable rotational leave cycle (six months every
     3–4 years). Staff apply, setting out objectives for high quality publications, grant applications
     and/or KE/impact activities. All eligible Category A staff (i.e., those who have not had leave for
     three years) have taken leave, with 21 periods of leave taken in total (just over 50% by women),
     resulting in 16 grant applications, 25 journal articles, 11 book chapters, three edited volumes
     and one impact case study.

 •   Peer support: our three research clusters organise work-in-progress seminars that provide
     feedback on draft papers and funding applications. On average, ten such seminars take place
     each semester across the three clusters. All colleagues and PGRs participate in at least one
     cluster, and seminars are very well-attended. Outcomes include at least 30 published papers

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     and three grant applications submitted following cluster presentations. The Unit’s “Books to
     Be” collective provides peer support for colleagues writing monographs.

 •   Mentoring: the Unit’s two Research Conveners organise annual research mentoring meetings
     for all colleagues, which provide research development advice and feedback. All staff can
     request an individual mentor (and all our ECRs are assigned one, see Section 2.1.4). Nineteen
     of our current staff have had a formal mentor in the REF period.

 •   Funding (including £46,371 in REF contingency funds) that supported six writing retreats
     (attended by a total of 56 staff and PGR students) and research grant preparation (see Section
     3.1).

 •   An annual conference allowance (minimum £1,200) for each member of staff. ECRs are
     prioritised for additional funding to present at key national and international conferences,
     helping them to develop their networks and increase the visibility of their research.

 2.1.3 Support staff to achieve research impact
 UofG added impact experience as a criterion for appointments and has integrated impact and KE
 into annual Performance and Development Review (P&DR) and promotion processes. Building
 on this, we:

 •   Appointed an “Impact Champion” (IC), who works closely with the College Impact Officer
     (CIO) and the College Research Support Office to lead and coordinate impact and KE
     activities. The IC meets with every member of staff planning a large grant application to discuss
     its pathways to impact; supports applications for impact acceleration funding; organises KE
     and impact-related training events (see below); holds regular informal meetings with
     colleagues who are developing impact-related work, and hosts “impact coffee mornings”
     where Unit staff are invited to share experiences. The IC serves as impact mentor to all staff
     in the annual research mentoring meetings and oversees and supports staff developing ICSs.
     In the later stages of the REF period the IC and CIO held half-day, two-to-one meetings each
     semester with every ICS holder. CEES hired a data analyst to support ICS development within
     the Area Studies cluster.

 •   Invested in training events to deepen understanding of impact and KE. E.g., Three Impact
     Awaydays helped staff develop the impact component of their research agendas. They
     provided peer-to-peer feedback, and input from the College Impact Officers and Impact
     Champions from other social science disciplines. Research cluster meetings offered primer
     sessions about developing ICSs and invited external speakers who shared their impact
     experience. We organised seminars on developing relationships with research users and
     arranged a workshop with editors of The Conversation. One of our ECRs commented that this
     “helped me identify an article suitable for a general audience ... and critically reflect on my
     research and how to communicate it to external audiences.”

 •   Invested in impact-oriented and public engagement units at UofG – the John Smith
     Centre and the Stevenson Trust for Citizenship – which help to build relationships with non-
     academic beneficiaries through their events and activities (see Section 4.2).

 •   Used research grants, College research funds, University Knowledge Exchange and
     Impact Acceleration Accounts (a total of 13 ESRC IAAs in the REF period, totalling £72k)
     to deepen our relationships with existing non-academic partners and to develop new ones (see
     Section 4.2). These funds, for example, enabled three academic–practitioner conferences and
     eight workshops; supported research student internships with the Scottish Government;
     provided relief from teaching and marking; and supported travel to meet stakeholders – e.g.,
     Anceschi with the European Parliament, and Hume with Oxfam.




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.1.4 Support for early career researchers
 We ensure that all our ECRs (12 submitted to REF2021) enjoy the full range of provisions
 described above. We also assign them a research mentor, encourage them to join PhD
 supervisory teams, and actively involve them in our research cluster activities and seminar
 organisation.

 We support them through the UofG Early Career Development Programme (ECDP), which is
 designed to progress careers within a defined timescale by setting annual objectives, providing
 mentoring, networking and training in learning and teaching, research, KE and leadership, all
 aligned to promotion criteria. ECRs on the ECDP – bar exceptional circumstances – are given a
 reduced teaching load (50% Year 1; 25% Year 2).

 Over the REF period, 24 of our staff (44% of staff submitted to REF2021) have taken the ECDP
 programme. Of current Category A staff who took the EDCP, six have been promoted from Grade
 7 to 8, and five from Grade 8 to 9 (and several are still to complete it). Fifteen have won external
 research grants. Our current ECRs have held over £1 million in postdoctoral awards and other
 external grants.

 2.1.5 Support for career progression
 Building on our overall support mechanisms and those targeted at developing our ECRs, we began
 during the REF period to focus on support for our mid-career researchers and helping them move
 to professorial level. We introduced tailored advice through one-to-one meetings to enhance
 P&DR processes.

 Our success is evidenced by promotions: 30 (a 77% success rate) across all grades, with 11
 promotions from Grade 7 to 8; 14 from Grade 8 to 9 (to Senior Lecturer), and five from Grade 9 to
 10 (to Professor), including two women.

 2.2 Research students
 Our objectives over the REF period have been to improve recruitment and training of the next
 generation of political scientists in our areas of strength, while supporting diversity and equality in
 career progression across our research student body; increase our numbers of completions; and
 maintain success in student destinations. Headline successes include:

    •   Our PhD student cohort grew by more than 20% between 2013 and 2020.
    •   Our doctoral degrees awarded (all PhDs, by headcount) grew by 75%, from 32 in the
        previous REF period to 56 between 2013 and 2020.
    •   Our graduates went on to a wide range of careers in think-tanks, NGOs and governments
        around the world, and at least 23 took up posts in universities.

 2.2.1 Recruitment
 We aimed to increase PGR recruitment as part of our strategy to improve our research culture by
 building strengths in priority areas, increasing interdisciplinarity and extending our linguistic
 competencies while maintaining diversity. We encouraged applications from our strongest PGT
 students, particularly from women and ethnic minorities, and sought applicants via our
 international collaborations and partnerships. Funding is vital to success in PGR recruitment, so
 we worked with strong candidates to develop proposals for external funding. Outcomes include:
     • A 23% increase in PhD students (headcount) since 2013–14.
     • 16 ESRC studentships awarded since 2013–14 through the Scottish Graduate School for
         Social Sciences (SGSSS, the ESRC’s DTP in Scotland), which offers dedicated award
         pathways in both Politics and Area Studies.
     • 14 students funded by highly-competitive College of Social Sciences studentships.
     • 15 research students funded through grants and other competitive sources, such as
         Student Awards Agency for Scotland, China Scholarships Council and overseas
         government schemes.



                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Overall, of the students who completed their PhDs, 20% were funded by the ESRC, a
        further 20% received competitive UofG Social Science funding, and almost 20% received
        competitive international funding.
    •   48% of our PhD students (headcount) over the period were women, and 70% were from
        overseas, representing 32 different nationalities.
    •   30% (17) of our current students are researching interdisciplinary topics and have
        supervisors from more than one discipline: e.g., Sociology, History, Business.

 2.2.2 Supervision and review arrangements
 We allocate each research student two (sometimes three) supervisors, ensuring a balance of
 expertise and experience. Supervisors receive formal training every five years, and in the interim
 have access to a comprehensive suite of supervisor support, seminars and workshops. Less
 experienced supervisors are paired with a more experienced colleague, which benefits both the
 student and staff development. Students meet supervisors at least once a month and produce a
 brief joint report of the meeting’s content, with objectives and the date of the next meeting.

 PGR students are rigorously and supportively reviewed at least once each year. Their work is read
 by a review committee, which meets the student to discuss progress and identify any problems
 and training needs.

 2.2.3 Providing training and skills development
 Training for diverse careers in research is central to our efforts to sustain a thriving PGR culture.
 A training plan for each student is developed at supervision and annual progress review meetings,
 and our Unit’s PGR Conveners oversee training. This is provided by:
 • The SGSSS, offering advanced and/or specific research training and the annual Summer
     School.
 • The UofG Researcher Development Programme, offering a comprehensive programme of
     essential academic skills, academic career development and personal development (all
     pivoted online in March 2020 as PGR@Home).
 • College of Social Sciences Graduate School, offering core methods training.
 • The School of Social and Political Sciences, offering a more tailored Research Methods
     programme.
 • Glasgow Q-step Centre, offering advanced quantitative research training.
 • Our interdisciplinary, language-based Area Studies centres, offering culture-specific fieldwork
     training and support for language learning through funded places on language programmes.
 • Unit staff offer Politics-specific seminars on topics such as preparing, submitting and revising
     papers for journals; achieving impact; advising governments; and writing an academic CV.

 We support our PGR students to attend policy workshops and conferences with an allowance of
 £300 per year. We fund and contribute to student-led writing retreats, seminars and away days,
 which support skills development and cohort building. Our School was in the Russell Group upper
 quartile for research skills and professional development in the Postgraduate Research
 Experience Survey 2019.

 2.2.4 Integration into the Unit
 Our PGRs participate enthusiastically in the research activity of the Unit:
 • In a student-led graduate seminar series.
 • As presenters and co-convenors in our regular research cluster meetings, where they also
     comment on papers and grant applications. One of our PGRs commented: “I was able to bring
     all [I had] learned from the cluster [seminars] to my own PhD – in terms of the research design
     and then writing … absolutely invaluable.”
 • In the Politics and IR research seminar series, where PGR students present their work in
     month nine of their first year and the third month of their third year.
 • In our research centre seminars, workshops and conferences. E.g., PGRs were actively
     involved in the British Association for Chinese Studies Annual Conference in 2018. The SCCR


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     has its own postgraduate network that organises a reading group, occasional lectures, and in
     2018, a conference for graduate students across the UK.
 •   In our network activities, such as CRCEES’ Jean Monnet “Between the EU and Russia”
     Research Network, which has funded annual exchanges of PhD students between partners,
     summer schools, training seminars and field trips.
 •   In our research projects: our College’s Internship Hub has funded nine research and
     transferable skills internships for our PGRs since its launch in 2017–18.

 2.2.5 Completions and Destinations
 This supportive research environment has resulted in:
 • Our doctoral degrees awarded (supervision load) increasing from 32 in the REF2014 period
     to 45 in REF2021.
 • Our PGRs securing positions in universities, governments and businesses around the world.
     These included 12 lectureships and PDFs at other institutions (e.g., Universities of
     Birmingham, Sheffield, Amsterdam, Indonesia, Lahore, Uppsala); two lectureships, one PDF
     and five UKRI-funded PDRA positions at UofG; and posts in the Ministries of Finance in
     Thailand and Greece, the Scottish Parliament, third sector organisations and companies such
     as Deloitte.

 2.3 An inclusive research culture aimed at equality and diversity
 We work to sustain a collegial research environment that challenges and prevents stereotyping,
 prejudice, discrimination and harassment, and embraces diversity by valuing and respecting the
 perspectives and contributions of all our colleagues and students. We embed the pursuit of
 inclusiveness, equality and diversity in our day-to-day decision making and recruitment processes,
 in our staff development and promotions, and in all our other working practices, so that it pervades
 the culture and life of the Unit.

 2.3.1 A welcoming and inclusive culture
 We try to make our Unit a warm and welcoming place to work. New colleagues are made to feel
 valued with a formal induction and orientation by the Head of Subject, as well as by immediate
 inclusion in our very active social life. We take advantage of the many cafés of Glasgow’s West
 End to run a programme of social events that include peer-mentoring lunches and regular mid/late
 Friday afternoon drinks (tea as well as beer for those who do not drink alcohol). These activities
 continued online or outdoors when Covid-19 confined us to working from home, and were
 supplemented by regular “complementary conversations” initiated by staff to support each other’s
 wellbeing during the pandemic.

 2.3.2 Democratic institutions and our REF2021 preparations
 Democratic institutions and transparent processes are central to our inclusive culture and pursuit
 of equality and diversity. The Unit’s decision-making body is therefore the full staff meeting and its
 ethos is that everyone has a right to speak and be listened to.

 It was at these staff meetings that we collectively took decisions about our research strategy and
 preparing our REF submission. We selected our output portfolio in line with the University’s REF
 Code of Practice, in a process led by the Unit’s REF Champion and Deputy Champion (both
 women) and a further five members of an Output Scoring Committee (balanced across subfields,
 four men and three women). All on the Committee took unconscious bias training. We conducted
 statistical analyses of scoring across the entire Unit to check for bias (gender and career stage)
 and found none in the final scores we used to rank outputs for selection. Women led or were
 centrally involved in two of our four ICSs.

 2.3.3 Measures to support equality and diversity
 The measures set out above support all staff and students regardless of career stage or other
 characteristics. In addition, we have adopted measures across training, recruitment, promotions
 and the day-to-day work of the Unit specifically aimed at supporting equality and diversity in
 research careers:


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   All staff are strongly encouraged to take the University’s training on “Equality and Diversity
     Basics” and “Unconscious Bias” (taken by 63% and 93% of Category A staff, respectively).
 •   We proactively encourage female and British Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) scholars to
     apply for positions we advertise. We ensure gender balance on our appointing and promotion
     committees (at least 40% male and female) and observe strict HR policies that checklist
     essential and desirable criteria against candidate applications.
 •   We monitor the gender distribution of tasks in the unit; patterns of grant-seeking and award
     success; and promotions, using this information to promote equality in career progression.
     (The Unit does not hold individual data on other protected characteristics, and staff may not
     wish to disclose them, so we do not monitor these at the unit level.)
 •   We hold meetings and events (e.g., cluster Work in Progress seminars) in core working hours
     and we discourage the use of email in the evenings and at weekends.
 •   We support flexible and remote working for staff and PGRs as suits their circumstances.
 •   We helped three colleagues returning from maternity leave to secure support from the
     University’s Academic Returners’ Research Support Scheme. This provides up to £10,000 for
     teaching buyout, research assistance and/or training. One beneficiary commented that the
     scheme is “amazing ... [it] tackles the problem of trying to catch up post-maternity leave in a
     timely and very flexible way.”

 2.3.4 Key outcomes
 These activities have led to a diverse unit in comparison to the UK political science average (as
 reported by the Political Studies Association):
 • Anonymised university data shows that 12% of our Category A staff declare themselves as
     having a BAME background, a figure three times higher than the 4% share reported for the
     UK discipline by the PSA.
 • 6% of our Unit’s staff (and 2.4% of Category A staff) declare they have a disability, compared
     to 3% of UofG staff.
 • 34% of our Category A staff are women, slightly above the UK disciplinary average of 31%,
     while 46% of our professors are women, making female representation at senior levels three
     times the PSA reported average of 15%.
 • Women thrive in our Unit: they earned 41% of our grant income during the REF period,
     although they made up between 34% and 42% of staff, and their annual promotion cycle
     success rates at 75%, were almost identical to that for male colleagues (77%) across all
     grades.
 • We have a good balance across career stages: eight staff at Grade 7; 12 at Grade 8; 13 Senior
     Lecturers (Grade 9); and eight Professors on the REF census date (plus two SL and three
     professorial promotions that came into effect on 1 August 2020). This provides a blend of
     strong leadership and sustainability for the future.
 • Our staff span 14 nationalities, which enriches our research culture with diverse perspectives
     and experience, as well as regional knowledge and language skills.

 2.3.5 Remaining challenges
 Although we have successfully fostered diversity on many measures, we still have work to do. For
 example:
 • As we expanded, our proportion of female colleagues declined from 42% in 2013 to 34% in
     2020, with the biggest imbalance among our most recently recruited ECRs and in the IR
     subfield.
 • Our monitoring shows that women were less likely to apply for promotion: men constituted
     between 58% and 66% of staff over the period but accounted for 79% of annual promotion
     cycle applications and 100% of “fast track” applications we use for retention purposes.
 • We are conscious of the differential impact of the Covid-19 pandemic across staff and
     students.
 As a result, in 2020 we initiated an Equality and Diversity Group to examine the causes of the
 gender imbalance, support future recruitment and promotions work, monitor trends more closely
 and identify new interventions to support equality and diversity in research careers – including the


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 impacts of Covid-19. We created a mutual support forum to promote staff wellbeing during the
 pandemic.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research funding and income generation strategies
 Research funding enables us to advance theory, investigate important political issues and
 influence policy or benefit society. We therefore sought to increase and extend our sources of
 funding, particularly through grants from international funding bodies that would help us to lead or
 participate in major collaborations.

 Our strategy has been to support all staff to win the research income they need to conduct world-
 leading research and develop their careers. Rather than relying on a few research “stars”, we
 aimed to increase the proportion of staff with external research grants, helping staff to gain
 experience of applying for and leading externally funded projects from the earliest stages of their
 careers.

 We benefit from support for grant applications provided at three levels:

 Within the Unit, we use research mentoring and P&DRs (see Section 2) to encourage staff to
 reflect on how funding can help them meet their research and impact goals. The Research
 Conveners (one each in PIR and CEES) also provide tailored advice on research funding
 opportunities, proactively encourage staff to apply to relevant calls, and ensure that staff feel able
 to approach them to discuss potential applications at the earliest stages. The Conveners also
 coordinate a system of rigorous in-Unit written peer review of all research grant proposals
 (followed by College review for applications over £100k and all UKRI applications). The Unit’s
 research cluster seminars provide a further opportunity to receive constructive feedback on draft
 grant bids.

 Within the College, the Research Support Office (18 staff) provides advice and assistance
 through all stages of research, including extensive pre- and post-award support for research
 funding, KE and impact; business development and community engagement. This includes
 tailored funding scheme alerts, a “bank” of successful proposals, grant-writing workshops and
 rapid-response costings for applications. There is funding for mock interviews, proof-of-concept
 work to support external grant development (through the College Strategic Research Fund),
 preparation of joint grant bids (including consultants to help develop major European bids), pilot
 research, fieldwork, and meetings with potential collaborators. The Office also helps to match
 cross-disciplinary teams to work on specific calls.

 Within UofG, the Research and Innovation Office arranges cross-disciplinary events, funder visits
 and additional specialist support. It has a dedicated EU Funding team which advises on funder
 terms and conditions, guides staff through applications, and arranges mock interviews (e.g., for
 Neundorf’s successful ERC Consolidator Grant).

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
 We are located in the historic Lilybank Gardens and nearby Adam Smith Building (ASB). The ASB,
 purpose-built in 1967, has recently been refurbished. A PGR hub was created, comprising
 individual workspaces and bookable meeting rooms with smartboards and internet-connected PCs
 as standard. Since REF2014, UofG has invested heavily in IT and administrative support for
 research. ASB has its own IT support and suite of specialist computer (hardware and software)
 facilities.

 Staff have individual offices, and, like our research students, ready access to meeting rooms and
 state-of-the-art video-conferencing facilities. All PhD students are guaranteed desk space and a
 computer (regularly replaced), in either shared offices or the PGR hub.



                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The world-class research resources of the University Library are located a two-minute walk away
 from the ASB, as well as online. It is among the oldest and largest university libraries in Europe,
 holding over three million books and journals, and over 50,000 e-journals. The Library contains
 historically significant collections in Politics; a European Documentation Centre (one of the largest
 in the UK); outstanding specialist multi-media collections in Russian, East European and Latin
 American studies; and a fast-growing collection in contemporary Chinese politics. Its Russian and
 East European Collection is one of the largest and longest-established in the world, with over
 80,000 titles, unique newspaper holdings, and a range of manuscripts and named collections
 (such as the Trotsky Collection and Baltic Research Archive). Income from the Europe Asia
 Studies journal provides additional funds to maintain the collection, which is recognised as a
 resource of national importance, and regularly attracts visiting researchers from across the world.
 The Library also provides comprehensive access to leading electronic journals and databases,
 including major databases of Chinese legislation, policy documents and newspapers (e.g., PKU
 Law, WestLaw). A dedicated PIR/CEES librarian and a generous budget enable staff to augment
 resources in their areas of research.

 Staff and PGRs make extensive use of the facilities and expertise available at UofG and
 elsewhere. These include:
     • Courses in quantitative research skills provided by the Glasgow Q-Step Centre. Funded
        by the ESRC and Nuffield Foundation, one of 17 in the UK (and two in Scotland), it
        promotes quantitative literacy in the social sciences.
     • Language training resources. The UofG Language Resource Library contains materials in
        over 40 languages, ranging from Czech and Russian to Albanian and Xhosa. It provides
        books, PCs, overseas satellite channels, newspapers, magazines, films, documentaries,
        and access to a screening room, which are free to use for staff and students. The UofG
        Confucius Institute provides tailored language tuition in modern standard Chinese.
     • Activities of our research centres and other units. For example, the Stevenson Trust
        organised outside speakers to deliver four “master classes” attended by 85 research
        students.

 3.3 Outcomes
 This support and infrastructure has benefited all our staff, including our large proportion of ECRs
 (currently 12, almost one third of submitted staff). It has helped us to win 68 new research grants,
 more than doubling the total value of our new grants compared with REF2014 (from £2.2 million
 to £5.3 million) and raising our total research income from £1.6 million to £3.8 million.

 We won more grants from the funding councils (17, up from 12 in REF2014), the British Academy
 (14, up from two), charitable foundations (11, up from one), the Carnegie Trust (13, up from 11),
 and the Royal Society of Edinburgh (four, up from two). We also diversified our research funders
 compared with REF2014, with grants from international funding bodies, most notably the
 European Commission (four); China’s National Science Foundation (one), and international
 charitable foundations (four).

 The share of our Category A staff holding a grant in a given year more than doubled, from 23% in
 2014 to 51% in 2020. Among submitted staff, 78% held externally-funded grants during the REF
 period (79% of women and 78% of men). Grant success was distributed across staff at all grades,
 including ECRs (see below).




                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                                 Grantholders by grade and gender
           100%
            80%
            60%
            40%
            20%
             0%
                     Grade 7     Grade 8     Grade 9    Grade 10      Male       Female
                                   Grantholder       Non-grantholder


 Just as importantly, funding helped us to extend the theoretical frontiers of our discipline and study
 important new political developments. For example, O’Driscoll’s funded projects “Victory: The
 Triumph and Tragedy of Just War” (ISRF, £60k) and “Moral victories” (ESRC, £200k), led to a
 major book tracing how just war has informed the practices of states and the legal architecture of
 international society. Smith’s funded project, “Poland’s Kin-State Policies” (Noble Foundation,
 £29k), studied the growing tendency of states to instrumentalise their diasporas abroad.

 Other grants have facilitated our contributions to understanding important political issues,
 including the political influence of social media in former Soviet states (Szostek, British Academy,
 £49k); and the Chinese government’s Covid-19 policies (Duckett, Langer and Snape,
 MRC/National Institute of Health Research, £334k).

 Research funding has enabled us to lead major interdisciplinary projects that explore and tackle
 issues of global importance. For example, in “Performance Evaluations, Trust and the Utilisation
 of Health Care in China” (ESRC, £509k), Duckett and Munro worked with a health economist and
 a medical sociologist in an innovative study on the interplay of health care experience and political
 attitudes in China. Hume’s project, “Colombia River Stories” (ESRC, £322k) brings social and
 natural scientists together to capture human stories through participatory research, environmental
 reconstruction and mapping.

 Funding has also enabled us to influence policy and benefit society at home and abroad in the
 areas of gender violence in El Salvador (Hume, Carnegie, £2k), the EU’s relations with Africa, the
 Caribbean and Pacific (Carbone, European Commission, £44k), and minority rights in Central and
 East Europe (Smith, ESRC, £603k). Several projects have shed light on the experience of and
 attitudes toward immigrants and refugees in Europe, including: “Aspirations of Syrian Refugees
 and Host Populations’ Responses” (Karyotis, ESRC & AHRC, £300k).



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 A key aim in the REF cycle was to extend our capacity and international reach through significant
 collaborations, leading to major research projects and beneficial impacts as well as contributions
 to the research base at home and abroad.

 4.1 Research collaborations, partnerships and networks
 A priority has been to build capacity for research and impact through local, national and
 international collaborations, partnerships and networks (Section 1.2). These bring valuable
 research skills, local knowledge and new theoretical perspectives, as well as access to major
 datasets, new research users and a wider range of beneficiary groups.


                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Drawing on the research support, infrastructure and facilities set out in Section 3 above, we have
 fostered collaboration, partnerships and networks by:
     • Discussing the benefits of collaboration at our research events and meetings.
     • Encouraging staff to join local, national and international networks, and to bid for internal
        and external collaborative research projects.
     • Using our Unit and research centre funding to bring potential collaborators to Glasgow.
     • Helping staff to access College Strategic Research Funds and network and seedcorn
        funding.
     • Supporting staff to play a leading role in UofG strategic partnerships and helping them to
        access University Partnership Development, Erasmus Mundus and Erasmus+ funding.

 The outcomes have included at least 42 collaborative projects, involving over 20 UK HEIs and
 more than 30 research institutions in 17 different countries across every continent. These
 collaborations have, in turn, led to conferences, workshops, co-authored publications and further
 projects, as set out below.

 Our collaborations take several different forms: research centres and networks, multi-dimensional
 international institutional partnerships and large-scale research projects.

 4.1.1 Collaborative research centres
 Our Unit’s research centres are fundamentally collaborative and have successfully led five major
 (and many smaller) interdisciplinary, international bids for external funding projects, involving nine
 universities in eight countries.
     • The Scottish Centre for China Research (which includes researchers across Scotland’s
        universities) led four major collaborative projects worth over £1.8 million, involving existing
        networks in China and extending them to three other countries. Outcomes include papers
        on the relationships between public opinion, trust and use of China’s health care system,
        with findings presented at academic and user conferences at the British Academy, and a
        workshop at Peking University.
     • During the second phase of its UK Government Language-Based Area Studies funding in
        2014–2016 (£311k), Centre for Russian Central and East European Studies (CRCEES,
        which coordinates a network of seven UK and 21 European partner universities) supported
        national and international research collaborations worth over £1 million, involving 11
        universities in 12 countries. These collaborations resulted in six international conferences
        and workshops, two journal special issues and two edited volumes.
     • In 2020, the Glasgow Baltic Research Unit (GBRU) was among the founding members
        of the Baltic Geopolitics Network, coordinated by the University of Cambridge Centre for
        Geopolitics and incorporating three other CEES partner institutions (Tartu, Helsinki,
        Uppsala). The Network was established on the initiative of former UK Home Secretary the
        Rt Hon Charles Clarke, who is a long-standing GBRU collaborator.

 4.1.2 Multi-dimensional partnerships
 Unit members played a leading role in the UofG’s strategic partnerships with Nankai, McGill and
 Columbia Universities:
 • We contributed substantially to the UofG’s Joint Graduate School with Nankai, which offers
     joint PhDs. Nankai became a partner in the project “Remaking Urban Neighbourhoods in
     China” (ESRC and National Science Foundation of China, £600k, Duckett as Co-I), and then
     in a major interdisciplinary UofG-led GCRF research centre that shares knowledge on urban
     health, education and neighbourhood development among several countries of the global
     south.
 • We developed, through CRCEES, substantial new collaborations with McGill, resulting in an
     Erasmus+ Jean Monnet Network “Between the EU and Russia” Network (€300k). This brought
     together 25 scholars from 11 institutions across six countries for four conferences, joint
     publications and PhD training.




                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Developing UofG’s partnership with Columbia University, we held three workshops under an
     academic-practitioner network on nation-building and authoritarian power in Central Asia with
     its Harriman Institute and one with its China Centre for Social Policy.
 •   Partnerships (including with Columbia) and staff mobility funding from our three Erasmus
     Mundus programmes were leveraged to support incoming visiting fellowships, a further
     successful bid for an Erasmus+ Jean Monnet Network (2020–2023, on securitisation of
     ethnicity), and new collaborations with researchers in Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Kosovo, Bosnia
     and Herzegovina.

 4.1.3 Collaborative research projects and networks
 We led 20 collaborative international projects and participated in a further 11 (total value £8.4
 million), involving 33 universities across 27 countries. For example, Hume is Co-I (leading the
 Latin America component) of the project “Global Remunicipalisation and the Post-Neoliberal Turn”
 (ERC Advanced Grant, €1.7 million); Neundorf is Co-director of the Varieties of Autocracy project
 at the University of Gothenburg; and Peace is Co-I on the multi-institutional, multi-country GLIMER
 project (ESRC, £1.2 million). Munro’s Europe Aid-funded research collaboration with the Centre
 for Environmental Education and Communication of Zhejiang Province, a Chinese GONGO, led
 to a joint workshop and activities aimed at developing consultative mechanisms to enhance
 understanding of environmental problems.

 Unit members lead four UofG-wide collaborative research networks (Section 1.1) and are
 members of 13 international networks that have organised many conferences, workshops,
 lectures and projects (Section 4.8.4). Notable outcomes include a workshop and edited book on
 Electoral Rights in Europe (Hardman), which involved the European Parliament and European
 Court of Human Rights; and a contribution to drafting the 2019 Global Sustainable Development
 Report mandated by the UN General Assembly.

 4.2 Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries or audiences
 Building relationships with non-academic research beneficiaries is a strength of our Unit, and
 crucial to achieving our goal of helping to understand and address Scottish, UK and international
 political problems. These relationships enrich our research environment. They bring fresh
 perspectives and skills to the co-production of research designs; facilitate access to fieldwork and
 data; fund research and KE activities; and give our ECRs valuable experience – all of which extend
 our capacity to conduct socially relevant research.

 Our support for impact over the REF period (Section 2.1.3) enabled colleagues to build and sustain
 relationships with key users in multiple ways:

 In Scotland, we work closely with the Scottish Government, Parliament and NGOs via leading
 roles on advisory bodies and in stakeholder forums. E.g., Karyotis, as co-convenor of the Scottish
 Government’s Evidence Group on Asylum and Refugees, contributed to shaping Scotland’s policy
 on refugees. Duckett, as a member of its China Strategy, Implementation and Delivery Forum,
 helped develop the Scottish Government’s China Plan. Peace, through the ESRC-funded GLIMER
 project (Scottish case study component), worked with the Scottish Government and a range of
 partners including the Scottish Refugee Council and the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities,
 to influence the “New Scots Refugee Integration Strategy 2018–22”. This gave him, initially as an
 ECR, valuable research and KE experience.

 In the UK government, we have developed relationships with colleagues in the FCO, DfID (now
 FCDO) and MoD over many years of collaboration through secondments (Szostek, FCO) and joint
 events. E.g., Heuser’s project on Military Exercises was founded on long-standing partnerships
 with MoD and NATO contacts. It led to the publication of a NATO Forum Paper, “Military Exercises:
 Political Messaging and Strategic Impact”, and a presentation to the Ambassadors’ Meeting of the
 OSCE (Vienna, 2019). It has fed back to benefit our research environment through KE and training
 events at the UofG, including talks by former MoD and military personnel that brought opportunities
 for engagement to our ECRs.


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Internationally, we have forged relationships with governmental bodies and NGOs, through active
 involvement in policy networks – as evidenced by three of our ICSs. For example, Smith and
 Prina’s ESRC-funded research led to an ICS by establishing relationships through a mix of
 activities, such as secondments and presentations, with Central European NGOs, the Council of
 Europe and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe High Commissioner on
 National Minorities (HCNM). These were consolidated by joint academic-practitioner events, by
 inviting speakers such as the High Commissioner to Glasgow, and by CRCEES funding for eight
 PhD and MSc student placements with non-academic partners. These relationships brought
 knowledge that improved the quality of our research, gave ECRs experience advising
 governmental bodies and working with NGOs, and led to a further project on “Poland’s Kin-state
 Policies.”

 In a developing ICS, Gillies’ GCRF postdoctoral fellowship (ESRC, £92k) led to a joint workshop
 with Christian Aid on the relationship between illicit economies and development in the Global
 South. This in turn led to a project funded by the German Corporation for International Cooperation
 (€60,000), that involved NGOs including the Open Society Foundation and the Andean Information
 Network. It produced a conference involving the UN, a special issue of Journal of Illicit Economies
 and Development (2019), a side-event at the UN Commission on Narcotics Drugs 2019, and 12
 impact videos.

 In another approach, we co-produced research with a range of international NGOs, which
 generated new perspectives, access to beneficiary communities and joint publications. E.g.,
 Hume’s ICS is based on a long relationship with Oxfam that facilitated her access to the field.
 Hardman worked with representatives from the Council of Europe and European Court of Human
 Rights, who contributed to her edited book on Electoral Rights in Europe. Neundorf’s collaboration
 with Democracy International, a Washington DC-based NGO, led to a research project on “Social
 Media for Civic Education” in Tunisia, aimed at promoting understanding of democracy. This
 provided proof of concept that underpinned her successful bid for an ERC consolidator grant (£1.4
 million).

 4.3 Wider contributions to policy development and society
 Across Scotland and the UK, ten Unit members have contributed to policy development and reform
 by providing invited briefings and expert testimony to the Scottish government on human rights
 issues (Kollman, Duckett and Munro) and Brexit (Judge, via Policy Scotland). They have also
 advised Scottish Parliamentary Committees on same-sex marriage and different-sex civil
 partnerships (Kollman) and the Referendum(s) bill (Carman). Other beneficiary organisations
 include the ODI (Reinsberg, Aliyev); three Westminster All-Party Parliamentary Groups (on
 Migration, Refugees and Skills; Karyotis); the House of Commons Petitions Committee (Carman).

 Internationally, ten Unit members have contributed to government deliberations and shaped the
 work of governmental organisations and NGOs through presentations and written reports.
 Beneficiaries include the German Development Corporation, US Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
 Staff, the North American Aerospace Defense Command, United Nations Development
 Programme, the World Bank, UNICEF China, the UN Commission on Narcotics Drugs, the
 Organisation of American States and the International Institute for Democracy and Electoral
 Assistance.

 Fourteen Unit members influenced debates, including on Scotland’s elections and corporate social
 responsibility, by organising events with government bodies, NGOs and businesses (eight joint
 conferences, 12 workshops and 16 other events). This includes a conference on “Scotland’s
 Elections – Fit for Purpose in the 21st Century” organised with the UK Electoral Commission for
 150 UK practitioners and academics; two public events organised with Latvia’s Ministry of Culture;
 a workshop for 50 policy makers, media organisations and businesses on “Innovation and IT in
 China’, organised with the German think-tank, the Mercator Institute for China Studies.

 Unit members helped many different bodies to develop policy and practice through expert advisory
 roles. E.g., Carman on the Board of the Joseph Rowntree Charitable Trust; Hume for the

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Everywoman Everywhere Coalition; Aliyev, Prina, Hume on human rights cases; Smith for the
 Adam Smith Global Foundation on the work of Adam Smith.

 4.4 Engagement with diverse communities and publics
 The Unit supported staff to participate in public engagement activities to communicate research
 findings, exchange knowledge, generate interest in our research, raise awareness of social issues
 and build relationships with potential non-academic users.

 We use various means of engagement: lectures (e.g., through the Stevenson Trust), events in
 schools (e.g., through the John Smith Centre), and exhibitions. Karyotis used his leadership of the
 Political Studies Association Specialist Group (SG) on Greek Politics to communicate with diverse
 audiences about the urgent needs of asylum seekers and refugees. The PSA named his Group
 “PSA SG of the year (2019)” for “leading the policy agenda from the front” and for “reaching and
 including new audiences/collaborations.”

 We use Twitter, Facebook, blogs and traditional media to raise awareness of our research. E.g.,
 Claassen’s blogs and articles on attitudes towards democracy and free speech for the Washington
 Post; Crilley’s piece, “How badly did Russia’s interview with the Skripal poisoning suspects
 backfire?”, which in 2018 was one of the top ten most-read contributions to the Washington Post’s
 influential Monkey Cage blog.

 Twenty-seven of us wrote articles for The Conversation, garnering a total of over 530,000 reads.
 Many of us also gave interviews or commented for national and international media. E.g., on Greek
 austerity politics (Karyotis – 30 radio interviews and six TV appearances), US Politics (Carman),
 Chinese Politics (Duckett), the Ukraine crisis (Cheskin, Smith) and Central Asia (Anceschi).

 4.4.1 General Public
 We enhanced public understandings of citizenship through the Stevenson Trust for Citizenship,
 which organised 33 lectures attended by around 7,100 people, and four masterclasses attended
 by 85 people.

 We promoted trust in politics and public service through our roles (Carman was Academic Lead),
 in the John Smith Centre. The Centre published research briefings on the state of trust among
 young people, women and people on low incomes.

 Our work to raise awareness of social issues included a public exhibition at the Lighthouse Gallery
 in Glasgow, which combined research findings with photographic testimonials of the harsh reality
 confronted by forcibly displaced migrants. This attracted 2,000 visitors and coverage by STV News
 and UK newspapers. It followed another exhibition, “Young Syrian Refugees in Scotland”,
 organised in collaboration with Solidarity Now and the Red Cross.

 In 2019 GBRU worked with the Civic Room Gallery, Glasgow and the Summerlee Open Air
 Museum to develop a community-based research project dedicated to the history and heritage of
 Lithuanians in Scotland. Funded by the National Lottery Heritage Fund and Creative Scotland, this
 included an event at Summerlee that attracted around 30 participants from the local community in
 and around Bellshill and a well-attended exhibition at Civic Room.

 Our staff spoke at numerous public events. E.g., Peace spoke about “Religion and European
 Democracy” at the Italian Cultural Institute in London; Duckett spoke at a British Council breakfast
 on China and gave the opening lecture at a Scottish Government China stakeholder event.

 4.4.2 Young people and schools
 Our leadership role in the John Smith Centre helped us to provide young people with experience
 of politics via its Parliamentary Internship Programme (12 interns in 2020) and the John Smith
 Public Service Award (a two-year professional development programme), events such as The
 Power Hour (speakers included Andrew Adonis and Anna Soubry), the Employability Speaker
 Series, and events at the Scottish Parliament’s Festival of Politics.

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We have enhanced young people’s understanding of important political issues through talks at
 local schools and annual Model United Nations events. To support school curriculum
 development, we worked closely – individually and through the Stevenson Trust – with the Modern
 Studies Association, delivering a workshop and four keynote speeches at their annual
 conferences. The Stevenson Trust conducted research with teachers and students from schools
 in the Glasgow area about their engagement with the 2014 referendum on Scottish independence.
 Their report, Schools, Political Literacy and the 2014 Scottish Referendum, was presented to a
 workshop for 18 key policy leaders in Scotland.

 4.5 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline
 Our Unit’s growth has contributed to the sustainability of the discipline. We recruited and trained
 24 ECRs over the period, of whom 12 are now mid-career. Of the 24, nine have been promoted
 to Grade 8, eight to Senior Lecturer, and five have gone on to take up academic positions in the
 UK and abroad.

 We have led the training of future researchers at home and abroad. Hume is our School’s PGR
 Director and Neundorf is its Director of Postgraduate Research Training. Pamphilis is Director of
 the Glasgow Q-Step Centre. We contribute substantially to the Scottish Graduate School for Social
 Sciences through two pathway conveners (Impact and Language-based Area Studies) and one
 summer school convener, while eight researchers have delivered training courses and workshops.
 Through CRCEES and the SCCR we provided UK-wide training workshops (e.g., in China-specific
 fieldwork) and hosted visiting doctoral students from overseas. Colleagues delivered three PGR
 workshops/masterclasses abroad.

 We were external examiners for 46 doctoral dissertations, 16 of them overseas.

 4.6 Support for and exemplars of interdisciplinary research
 Besides securing research income for interdisciplinary projects (30 in total; Section 3.3 gives
 examples), our Unit supported interdisciplinary research by:

    •   Investing in interdisciplinary posts, including joint appointments (PIR–CEES and PIR–
        History).
    •   Contributing to 19 interdisciplinary PGR supervisions across UofG.
    •   Leveraging research centres and networks (see Section 1.3), which host events, incubate
        collaborative bids for funding, and train PGRs and ECRs to conduct area-specific fieldwork,
        in mixed methods, across disciplines.
    •   Using College funding for interdisciplinary research themes and Unit seminar funding to
        build networks and host potential collaborators. Outcomes included a project that
        developed complex systems for NHS Scotland (funded by the EPSRC), and another on
        the aspirations of Syrian refugees (AHRC).

 4.7 Responsiveness to national and international priorities and initiatives
 We led six GCRF projects which investigated markets and inequality; the socio-environmental
 impacts of non-regulated gold mining; the resolution of environmental conflicts; illicit drug
 economies in South America; European policies for Syrian refugees (ESRC/AHRC Forced
 Displacement Urgency Call); and urban water governance in Tanzania. We are conducting an
 MRC/NIHR Rapid Response Call project to study the Chinese government’s handling of Covid-
 19.

 4.8 Wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base
 4.8.1. Leadership
 Duckett was appointed to the ESRC Council and served on the British Academy’s Political Studies
 Section Standing Committee. We played leading roles in a diverse range of disciplinary and
 interdisciplinary associations:



                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  ASSOCIATION                                        ROLE
  European Consortium for Political Research         Executive Committee member (Carbone)
  European Political Science Association             Member of Council (Neundorf)
  Political Studies Association                      Specialist Group Convener (Karyotis,
                                                     Carbone)
  British International Studies Association          Trustee (Head), Working Group Conveners
                                                     (Head, Kaczmarski)
  British Association for Chinese Studies            President (Duckett), Council (Munro)
  Society for Latin American Studies                 Committee Member (Siegel)
  EU Studies Association                             Chair of EU and Developing World Section
                                                     (Carbone)
  Scottish Studies Society                           Vice-President (C Smith)

 4.8.2 Advisory roles, grant committees and refereeing
 Unit members played advisory roles on 11 UK and international research bodies, sat on three
 international scholarly committees, ten international and eight UK grant-awarding bodies. Three
 of us are members of the ESRC Peer Review College. We reviewed grant applications for a further
 six national and international funding bodies.

 4.8.3 Editorships and refereeing
 We have been editors or co-editors of 14 journals, including Political Studies, Political Studies
 Review, and the CEES journal Europe-Asia Studies, edited by Smith and Anceschi. Europe-Asia
 Studies is marketed by Taylor and Francis as “the principal academic journal in the world focusing
 on … the countries of the former “communist bloc” of the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe and Asia.”
 We sit on the editorial boards of a further nine journals and ten book series, as well as reviewing
 for numerous other journals and publications.

 4.8.4 Organising academic conferences and workshops
 We organised or co-organised a total of 36 conferences, including 12 overseas. E.g., The 2014
 ECPR Conference in Glasgow (1,000 attendees), the 2017 International Conference of
 Europeanists (1,400 attendees), and annual conferences of the Society of Latin American Studies,
 British Association for Chinese Studies and the European Association for Chinese Studies. We
 organised 24 workshops and symposiums, including seven overseas, and many ECPR Section
 and Standing Group sessions and conference panels.

 4.8.5 Recognition: Fellowships, lectures and prizes
     • Fellows of prestigious academic bodies: British Academy (White, Duckett), Royal Society
        of Edinburgh (Duckett) and its Young Academy (O’Driscoll), Academy of Social Sciences
        (Duckett).
     • 17 academic visiting fellowships globally, from Tsinghua to the ANU, and from Uppsala to
        Washington.
     • 27 keynote and invited lectures at institutions and forums in 16 countries during 2014–
        2020.
     • Five best paper awards (one AJS, two APSA, two ISA), one book prize and one nomination
        (APSA’s Leon Epstein Outstanding Book Award, Nova prize), three honourable mentions,
        one nomination, one certificate of merit and one excellence award for papers (ECPR,
        Review of International Studies, Nations and Nationalism, Journal of Common Market
        Studies and APSA).




                                                                                            Page 19
