Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: York St John University

 Unit of Assessment: Geography and Environmental Studies (UoA 14)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit context and structure
 The Geography subject group is situated within the School of Humanities (referred to hereafter
 as HUM) and comprises eight academic staff with a total of 7.2 full-time equivalent (FTE) of
 which 100% are eligible for Category A return. Geography was introduced as a new subject area
 at York St John University (YSJU) in 2014, with initially two academic staff (1.6 FTE; Couper,
 Parks). Since then, the unit has grown by two academic staff in 2016 (3.0 FTE), and four more in
 2017 and 2018 to eight, supported by one technician (0.8 FTE). All staff are research active and
 deliver research-informed teaching in undergraduate degree programs.

 Research and impact strategy
 The unit has been established to address contemporary emerging environmental and social
 challenges in the UK and internationally, such as interaction between a society of changing
 attitude towards the environment, and the services, resources and risks provided by dynamic
 natural systems. Thus, a conscious strategy of appointing staff with multiple overlapping
 interests across the spectrum from physical geography to human geography was adopted,
 hereby contributing to two main research themes: Environment and Society and Dynamic
 Landscapes. These themes are supported by shared interest in:
      • landscape from both physical and cultural perspectives (Schwendel, Bailey, Schofield,
         Garlick);
      • understanding the physical and social dimensions of environmental hazards (Schwendel,
         Schofield, Adekola);
      • nature conservation as scientific and cultural practice (Bailey, Garlick, Couper);
      • access to nature and environmental values, behaviours and identities (Garlick, Couper,
         Parks, Fitzpatrick);
      • social and environmental sustainability (Parks, Adekola); and
      • place-based community engagement (Adekola, Parks, Fitzpatrick).

 The overall university strategy has three priorities: inspiring learning, impactful research, and
 enabling our students to be clear about their careers. The research strategy emphasises
 interdisciplinary working, demonstrating greater research excellence through external
 recognition, and wider dissemination of research as key goals. Aligned to this, the key objective
 of the UoA research theme Environment and Society is to create a hot spot for research into
 environmental and social sustainability with application and impact in a regional to international
 envelope. To accomplish this, the unit has been successful in actively developing collaborations
 within the group and with relevant stakeholder organisations, such as a formal partnership with
 Natural England’s Humberhead Peatlands National Nature Reserve, ongoing dialogue with the
 National Association for Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty (and individual AONBs) and
 collaboration with People, Landscape And Cultural Environment of Yorkshire (PLACE). This
 objective and resulting impacts on communities are demonstrated in the focus of the two impact
 case Studies; for example, the role of community music in achieving social sustainability and
 creation of community engagement with their physical and social environment. As part of the
 school’s impact strategy, impactful research was supported by internal quality-related (QR)
 funds used explicitly for enhancing effects on beneficiaries.

 Research into Dynamic Landscapes has been accelerated since 2018 with new staff arrivals.
 The focus of this theme is the use of innovative approaches for the appraisal of changes in
 landforms and landscapes under the influence of natural and human drivers. This includes
 research into processes facilitating these dynamics and the resulting resources and hazards.
 Staff have a range of established and new external collaborations. The latter include Operation
 Wallacea’s projects in Madagascar and Romania, and collaborations with the Yorkshire Wildlife
 Trust, St Nicks Centre for Nature and Green Living, York, The National Trust, the Royal Society

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for the Protection of Birds (RSPB) and the Environment Agency. These partnerships have
 already created strong links between the unit’s research, stakeholder organisations and
 students’ education. Research- and industry-informed teaching is achieved by involving staff of
 partner organisations in taught sessions (e.g., Environment Agency, environmental consultants
 Arup and City of York Council on flood management) and field projects (e.g., RSPB in Sherwood
 Forest or Natural England at Humberhead Levels),and encouraging dissertations within research
 or consultancy projects (e.g., within Flood Futures York: Risk and Social Justice or restoration of
 Osbaldwick Beck, York).

 During this Research Excellence Framework (REF) cycle the unit has produced 63 outputs in
 total, of which 47 are suitable for UoA 14 REF return. Twenty-one percent of the unit’s journal
 articles available through Web of Science are currently listed in the top 10% (2014–20) for
 normalised citation impact (mean NCI 1.37) (Web of Science/InCites).

 Future strategic aims and goals
 As a new subject area submitting to REF for the first time, and with a substantial proportion of
 staff at an early stage in their careers, the unit will see the staff base maturing and gaining in
 experience and reputation over the next five years. The unit’s overall aim is to build on the
 current momentum to enable research quality and quantity to grow, and to establish emergent
 interdisciplinary interests to address national and international concerns around landscape,
 nature, sustainability, and community. Progress towards this aim is already evident in the
 increase in research income since 2018 (see Section 3).

 Four key goals are central to this aim:
    1) To increase opportunity for research by growing our external income and taking
        advantage of the institutional support available (such as academic leave/sabbaticals and
        internal funding). The YSJU Research Office (RO), established in 2018, encourages
        grant applications by providing logistical support and advice in targeting relevant funding
        organisations. Increasing levels of bidding activity have already been observed within the
        UoA with 18 out of 19 grant applications submitted after 2018. The growing network of
        external partners will open opportunities for consultancy and/or applied work.
    2) To further develop our partnerships and collaborations with external (non-university)
        organisations, ensuring our research is informed by, and relevant to, stakeholders and
        users. This also includes efficient means of community engagement in research projects,
        which is a key topic informed by our own research.
    3) To increase our postgraduate provision. Central to this is a desire to attract postgraduate
        research students. The unit has already undertaken first steps into postgraduate
        provision with the completion of studies of one full-time PhD student and another part-
        time PhD in progress during the REF assessment period. The establishment of a
        research dialogue with staff members of the local Askham Bryan College in 2020 aims to
        attract them for PhD research to the unit, which is supported by YSJU with fee waivers.
        We also envisage taught postgraduate provision as enriching the research culture,
        strengthening our external partnerships through work-based or work-related learning
        (thus contributing to our second goal) and providing ground for postgraduate research
        student recruitment. To date, scoping for demand in MA/ MSc/ PGDip level programmes
        in the areas of Landscape, Environment and Conservation (linking with the Dynamic
        Landscapes theme), Environmental Humanities (linking with Environment and Society)
        and Human Geography has been carried out.
    4) To increase our facilities in strategic areas such as remote sensing, geospatial analysis
        and environmental data collection and analysis. This is reflected in a strong commitment
        to internal investment by HUM (see Section 3), as well as the use of academic networks
        (e.g., Terrestrial Laser Scanning International Interest Group) and collaborations with
        other academic partners.

 Open research environment
 YSJU supports the principle of open access (OA) and where possible follows the “green” OA
 route. In response to the university’s open access and open data agenda, an institutional

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 repository, Research at York St John (RaY), has been developed over the last five years, which
 makes researchers’ publications available to the wider public, in open access wherever
 permissible. As RaY is searched by Google Scholar and CORE, these can be shared with
 individual members of the wider public via “Request a copy” buttons that have been added to all
 embargoed outputs on RaY. Direct downloads of the unit’s outputs from RaY have almost
 doubled within the last two years and have reached a total of more than 2,000 to date (on
 average 457 per FTE and year). In 2019, a companion repository, RaYDaR, was launched,
 which enables researchers to upload their research data in addition to their publications.

 The Geography UoA commitment to OA exceeds the REF minimum open access requirements
 in that all geography journal articles and book chapters since April 2016 and 81% of publications
 prior to this date are available as full text. Where embargo prevents upload of typeset versions,
 author accepted manuscripts have been provided in all cases. In the current REF cycle, 79% of
 the unit’s outputs have been published in open access journals or open access charges have
 been paid (source: InCites/ Web of Science).

 Research integrity
 YSJU is committed to maintaining the highest ethical and integrity standards in research carried
 out by staff and students. As such it complies with Universities UK’s Concordat to Support
 Research Integrity and our policies ensure allegations of academic misconduct are investigated
 thoroughly and rigorously, although such an instance has never occurred in the submitting unit.
 The UoA has a strong record of promoting ethical aspects in research. As such, Garlick and
 Adekola are members of the HUM ethics committee, with the latter currently chairing it.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy
 The staffing strategy of the unit reflects the balance of implementing the research strategy and
 providing teaching expertise across the spectrum of physical, environmental, and human
 geography. Initial staffing (Couper, Parks) allowed establishment of the common research theme
 Environment and Society. This was strengthened with the appointment of two more staff to
 bolster the research in urban environments (Fitzpatrick) and animal geographies (Garlick) in the
 following two years. The parallel appointment of Schofield in 2016 expanded the theme towards
 human-environment interaction on a landscape scale, which also acted as a seed to establish
 the second research theme, Dynamic Landscapes. The latter was developed with the
 employment of Schwendel and Bailey over the next two years. The appointment of Adekola
 (2017) filled a gap in both research groups in terms of providing expertise in policy and
 stakeholder engagement and supported implementation of the impact strategy. The unit’s
 research capacity has been strengthened with the appointment of a technician in 2018.

 Having overlapping research interests enables, in alignment with an appropriate research
 strategy, internal collaboration, efficient acquisition and use of equipment and infrastructure. It
 also allows development of specialised and interdisciplinary research hotspots, which is
 important for such a small unit (in terms of FTE).

 All staff within the unit are employed on permanent/open-ended contracts, which provides a
 certain level of security for implementing the research and impact strategy. As it is a new subject
 at YSJU, most staff have been appointed at lecturer level. Three of the eight academic staff of
 the unit (42% of total FTE) are classified as early career researchers (ECRs). Two members
 (Parks, Schwendel) have since been promoted to senior lecturer. While the university, HUM and
 the unit seek to grow research, staff costs are primarily covered by undergraduate fees;
 therefore, success in growing the unit’s undergraduate numbers has facilitated growth in the
 staff base.

 Staff development
 Staff have an annual personal development review (PDR), with research as an integral part.
 Topics discussed include reviewing progress, setting objectives for published outputs, research

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 engagement (grant applications, PGR supervision, scholarship, knowledge exchange) and
 research development (external visibility, conference attendance, networking). YSJU is a
 signatory on the Vitae Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, which
 directly informs our staff development approach. Our centralised research CPD programme
 (over 40 sessions) is aligned to the four core Vitae competencies and recognises staff individual
 development needs while also acknowledging that a common set of requisite personal and
 professional skills are needed for success. CPD delivery is mainly delivered by our professoriate
 and by external speakers (e.g. Professor Mark Reed delivered our impact workshop). Our new
 open data repository service (RaYDaR) and research repository (RaY) will further increase the
 impact and transparency of research at YSJU and support researcher development.

 Technical staff have benefitted from a 24-month action plan to implement the pledges of the
 Technician Commitment after YSJU becoming signatory in 2018.

 Professional development opportunities are available via internal courses or external providers,
 with recent examples including software training (Couper, Parks, Schwendel) and workshops on
 research ethics, impact and funding applications, Royal Geographical Society (RGS) Teaching
 in Geography, Parliament for Researchers and Diversifying Leadership (Adekola, Bailey,
 Schofield). The university’s technology-enhanced learning team supports the development of
 digital capabilities in line with the UK Professional Standards Framework and Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework.

 At school level, HUM provides internal research funding (see Section 3) and research mentoring
 organised by the school research lead (SRL). The latter is a professorial-level post that was
 created to manage and promote research among staff and postgraduate researchers (PGRs)
 within the school. The SRL arranges research mentoring (by trained senior staff with proven
 research experience) for less experienced researchers as well as working with the RO to ensure
 training programmes and support are in line with current needs.

 Monthly HUM research seminars and the annual HUM research conference have been used by
 Geography staff to showcase their research projects and develop internal interdisciplinary
 collaborations (Adekola, Couper, Garlick, Parks, Schofield).

 The Geography subject group provides additional staff development and research support, for
 example a seminar series (comprising five seminars per academic year with internal and
 external speakers) aimed at staff and Geography students, unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV)
 training and licensing (Schofield, Schwendel) and time allowances for ongoing external research
 projects (Bailey).


 Research students
 Despite the young age of the Geography subject group at YSJU, the unit has one completed
 PhD and an ongoing supervision. Additionally, Adekola is an external advisor on the supervisory
 team of a PhD research student in the School of Natural Sciences, Manchester Metropolitan
 University, and Garlick is external supervisor to a MSc student dissertation in the Royal (Dick)
 School of Veterinary Studies, Edinburgh. This reflects their academic standing in their field of
 research. As a new unit, the establishment of a PGR community is in its infancy, but over the
 next REF cycle there is the ambition to grow this field (see Section 1).

 YSJU has well-established processes for induction, training, and monitoring of PGR students.
 Formal reviews of PGR student progress are conducted every six months by academics external
 to the supervisory team. Progress is monitored centrally four times a year (by Research Degree
 Committee). All supervisory meetings are logged. Supervisory teams are made up of multiple
 academic staff from the PGR student supervisory register. To be added to the register, staff are
 required to meet stringent criteria for PGR supervision eligibility pertaining to engagement in
 research, continual professional development and formal YJSU training. Endorsement from
 Heads of School or School Research Leads is also required. Applications are assessed by a

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 central committee of senior research staff (again, by Research Degree Committee). It is
 mandatory that all supervisory teams have at least one member of staff with experienced
 supervisory status (have previously supervised a PhD student to successful completion). In
 addition, all PGR students have a PGR tutor who is available to provide support outside of the
 supervisory team.

 All students undertake needs analysis periodically and an individually tailored training
 programme is created. The needs analysis is based on competencies in the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework. Support is provided by supervisory teams and via a centralised PGR
 training programme that includes core and supplementary workshops at each year of study. Like
 our staff training programme, our PGT training programme aligns with the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework. Core parts of the programme include Research Ethics and Integrity,
 General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) for Research, Data Management, and Copyright
 and Intellectual Property rights. These sessions are compulsory for all PGR students.
 A range of other central and local support is available to PGR students that include (1) access to
 centralised services (e.g. Student Services, Chaplaincy, Library and Learning Services,
 Careers); (2) access to a stipend of up to £900 (£450 part-time) to support travel and
 consumables associated with their research and professional development; (3) access to the
 YSJU Graduate Centre providing study space and remote access to a range of specialist
 software; (4) opportunity to complete a postgraduate certificate in academic practice to achieve
 associate fellowship of the Higher Education Academy (HEA); (5) administrative support
 provided by the School and Research Office and (6) various PGR events held throughout the
 year (e.g., Three Minute Thesis (3MT), Bake Your Thesis, and the annual PGR conference).

 In addition to the institutional provision of facilities and training, the school also organises an
 annual PGR day conference at which PGRs present issues arising from their research that are
 related to method. This allows even new starters to discuss methodology and common issues
 from a range of disciplines. The annual HUM research conference and a school-level research
 seminar series provide opportunities for exchanges between wider staff and the PGRs. The
 seminar series comprises roughly eight external and internal speakers per academic year with
 the latter also including PGRs.

 Equality and diversity
 UoA14 sits within a broader context of support for equality and diversity at YSJU which has
 implemented several initiatives which ensure policies and practices relevant to researchers are
 inclusive, equitable and transparent. This is formalised in the YSJU Equality, Diversity and
 Human Rights Policy and the targets within the YSJU 2026 strategy (e.g., 10% BAME student
 and staff population; all staff are engaged in equality and diversity training and development
 appropriate to their role; median gender pay gap below 10%; 95% of staff think the university is
 a good place to work). Equality impact assessments are a routine part of annual monitoring and
 progress towards YSJU targets are reported to executive board and the governing body on a
 yearly basis. Of additional note, YSJU is a member of the Athena SWAN Charter (and is
 currently applying for a Bronze Award), a Stonewall Diversity Champion (ranked 49th place on
 the 2020 Top 100 Employers list) and Top 20 Trans employer, a Disability Confident employer,
 and a Mindful Employer. There are also several active staff networks available for staff to join
 that align with these awards and this agenda including the LGBT+, BAME and Disability staff
 networks.

 Geography is highly diverse in many aspects, which reflects its recruitment policy. Within the
 group there is gender parity and two thirds of staff on higher (senior lecturer or above) grades
 are female. One in four are of international background and more than one ethnicity is
 represented. Whilst most of the policies for staff and PGRs are driven by the highly inclusive
 approach to equality and diversity taken by YSJU (outlined in part 5a), the atmosphere of
 diversity and equality in the submitted unit and the global focus of their research should enable
 recruitment of staff and PGRs from any background. All staff have received training in equality
 and diversity and elimination of unconscious bias as part of their induction. Additional training


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 promoted by HUM in topics such as cultural awareness and LGBT inclusion has been attended
 by members of the unit.

 Flexible and remote working is supported by HUM and the university by the aspiration to
 timetable at least one day per week without teaching if possible (e.g., outside weeks with
 residential field trips). Working at home is arranged on request by the line management and all
 members of the unit have made use of this opportunity on a regular basis.

 Parental leave has been made use of over two periods by Geography staff in the current REF
 cycle. Increase in FTEs of other staff or temporary cover buffered the effects on workload within
 the small team and ensured research activity would not be compromised.

 The two part-time staff in the unit enjoy support in terms of day-to-day arrangements such as
 scheduling of training sessions and meetings and flexibility around residential teaching field trips.
 They have the same opportunities in accessing internal funding (e.g., five out of six applications
 were successful) and career progression (one was promoted to senior lecturer).

 UoA14 complied fully with the YSJU institutional code of practice in selecting research outputs.
 The UoA lead also undertook Advance HE training on equality and mitigating bias as part of the
 role. Due to the small size of our submission, it is not possible to report a profile at UoA level
 here while also complying with HESA guidelines on anonymous reporting when presenting
 Equality and Diversity data (e.g., all our percentages would be based on less than 22.5 FTE).
 However, equality and diversity data for the UoA was reviewed internally following the
 completion of output selections and reported to both the School Academic Leadership Team
 (SALT) and Athena SWAN development groups as part of promoting greater diversity and
 inclusion at UoA, school, and institutional levels. Our data was also included as part of an
 equality and diversity impact assessment at institutional level.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research funding and income
 The unit has been active and successful in obtaining funding from internal and external sources.
 Particularly over the last three years of the REF cycle the group was involved in 18 applications
 (ten of those as principal investigator [PI]) for research grants of which eight with a total value of
 £109,000 were successful. Applications have been made to a range of research councils (e.g.,
 Arts and Humanities Research Council [AHRC], Natural Environment Research Council
 [NERC]), charitable organisations (e.g., Joseph Rowntree Charitable Trust [JRCT], Leverhulme)
 and research networks. As the examples provided below show, the grant acquisition strategy is
 well aligned with the UoA’s impact strategy (see Section 1):
     • Royal Academy of Engineering grant (2018) to Adekola (PI) for research on climate-
          resilient aqua-culture (£19,600)
     • Rising from the Depths network grant (2019–20) on which Adekola is co-investigator (Co-
          I) for research on social learning in the management of ecosystem services (total
          £29,900, of which £1,400 went to YSJU)
     • AHRC grant (2019) providing financial support (~£3,000) to Adekola as Co-I to support
          environmental education of young people (total £25,000, no direct Higher Education
          Standards Agency [HESA] research income to YSJU)
     • Royal Academy of Engineering grant (2018) providing financial support (~£2,500) to
          Adekola as Co-I on improving social and environmental health via more sustainable ship-
          breaking processes (total £20,000, no direct HESA reported research income to YSJU)

 There is a clear trajectory of growing research income from external sources towards the end of
 the REF period. The UoA’s research income strategy foresees increasing grant success in the
 next REF cycle by strategically targeting funding opportunities that facilitate impact from the
 unit’s research, either individually or collaboratively. In 2020, already five out of eight bids were
 based on internal collaboration within the research themes, which has already resulted in 38%
 success to date. While these collaborations resulted in more efficient grant application (e.g.,

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 review of applications across groups) and administration processes, it also demonstrates the
 first steps in carrying out the research income strategy. The latter also includes, supported by
 the RO (see below), enabling and encouraging all members of the unit to apply for external
 funding and ensuring funding success precipitates in direct research income rather than in-hand
 support from collaborators.

 Most members of the unit have received internal funding via competitive bids from sources such
 as QR funding and catalyst funding for field work, research trips, specialist support services,
 public engagement and catalyst projects. During the REF cycle, 22 applications have been
 made by seven members of the Geography group for this type of funding, with a 95% success
 rate. To give some examples:
     • Adekola and Schwendel received QR funding in 2020 for the project Flood Futures York:
         Risk and Social Justice, which facilitated stakeholder participation in flood management
         (£10,300).
     • Parks and Bailey were CIs on a QR-funded project on students’ expectations, anxieties
         and agency in social justice in 2020 (£3,300).
     • Schwendel received catalyst funding for the purchase of a sonar-supported radio-
         frequency identification (RFID) gravel-tagging system in 2020 (£2,910).
     • Fitzpatrick received funding twice for travel, photographic exhibits and interview
         transcription, which contributed to her exhibition at Warrington Museum and links to one
         of the unit’s impact case studies (£1,500).
     • Parks attained funding for organising a symposium in 2018 and travel funding to organise
         a conference session in 2019, both of which resulted in publications, further collaboration
         and networking, and contributed to an impact case study.
     • Schofield received travel funding to Harvard Forest, resulting in one publication.
     • Couper and Garlick received funds to employ a research assistant on their Humberhead
         Peatland collaboration with Natural England (£1,448).
     • Funding of annual field work expenses in northern England for Schwendel enabled
         contribution to collaborative research, which led to two publications to date (£1,565).

 Additionally, travel to meetings with the purpose to incept research or to inform investment in
 equipment was covered (Bailey, Couper, Schofield, Schwendel). Fitzpatrick and Parks also
 received QR funding targeted at implementing the unit’s impact strategy.

 The school finances conference attendance (fees, accommodation, travel and subsistence)
 where staff are delivering papers that are likely to lead to peer-reviewed outputs. Since 2014,
 five staff of the unit have been funded to attend eight national and four international conferences,
 with a 100% success rate in applications to access these funds.

 Overall, 34 applications for internal funding have been made during the REF cycle, which is on
 average 0.87 applications per FTE and year with a total success rate of 97%. This shows how
 well the unit is engaging with the available internal funding opportunities.

 Research infrastructure
 The introduction of the Environmental Geography programme was accompanied by significant
 investment to supply a suitable research environment for staff on the Dynamic Landscapes
 research group; for example, high-end PCs for Bailey, Schofield and Schwendel, and access to
 specific remote sensing and geospatial analysis software. The latter included institutional site
 licences (e.g., SPSS, NVivo, ArcGIS) and desktop licences (e.g., Agisoft Metashape, ERDAS
 Imagine, Matlab, Surfer, ReflexW). In accordance with the UoA’s research strategy (see Section
 1), since 2019 this area has been further strengthened by the purchase of two differential global
 navigation satellite systems (GNSSs), a versatile UAV with integrated 20 Mpix camera and a
 multispectral RTK UAV, as well as associated pilot training and licencing. Additionally, a sonar
 system, a mobile GNSS-supported RFID antenna and data logger for gravel clast tagging, water
 depth monitoring sensors and five microclimate loggers have been purchased.



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In total, £95,000 was spent on the enhancement of environmental geography research
 infrastructure within four academic years since 2016, which amounts to an average annual
 spending of £10,500 per every associated academic (Bailey, Schofield, Schwendel).

 Since 2018 a technician (0.8 FTE) with expertise in geographic information system (GIS),
 remote sensing and virtual reality has been employed to support the advances in hardware and
 software. In addition, collaborations within the university allowing access to 3D printers and the
 development of virtual-reality applications have been established. The group also has access to
 a range of surveying equipment via inter-institutional collaborations (e.g., terrestrial laser
 scanner, ground penetrating radar, electric resistivity ground imager) and international networks
 (Terrestrial Laser Scanning International Interest Group).

 To facilitate the achievement of its key strategic aim of research with impact, the university
 launched its first dedicated RO in 2018. The RO includes a head (1.0 FTE) and a further 5.15
 FTE staff. Its remit includes supporting grant applications, monitoring research performance,
 overseeing research governance and compliance, coordinating staff research training, and
 managing the PGR student experience. The RO also disseminates information on grants calls
 and provides support during the application process and throughout the grant period, services
 which have been accessed by Adekola, Couper, Garlick and Parks in this REF cycle. The work
 of the RO is complemented by a new Business Development and Knowledge Exchange
 Office (BDKEO). The BDKEO includes a director (1.0 FTE) and a further 13.5 FTE staff. The
 BDKEO is responsible for supporting staff in increasing the range and scope of applied
 research, business development and knowledge exchange.

 The university library provides access to over 64,000 journal titles (excluding Open Access), with
 Geography now well represented across the breadth of the discipline. With Geography being a
 developing discipline at YSJU, the group has seen significant expansion since 2014. Since
 offering initially only an undergraduate programme in human geography, staff research was
 initially weighted toward this area along with the acquisition of scholarly infrastructure (e.g.,
 access to literature). With the diversification of staff research interests since 2016, this has been
 complemented by purchasing access to ten collections and databases relevant to Geography,
 additional digital mapping resources within Digimap and participation in several evidence-based
 acquisition programmes. Spending on geography-specific titles and the discipline’s share of
 broader subject collections has increased more than six-fold (623%) between 2016–17 and
 2019–20, with a total of £133,300 spent over those four years. A notable spending commitment
 by the university is to allow unlimited free inter-library loan requests for all staff and PGRs.
 York’s proximity to the British Library at Boston Spa means that most items can be obtained
 within a few days. The library will also send items by post to the home address of staff and
 PGRs, a great help for part-time staff who live some distance from York.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations
 Members of the geography group are engaged in a wide range of collaborative activities with
 colleagues in the UK and abroad. The relatively high proportion of ECRs within the unit means
 that many are still involved with the publication of research from previous PhD or post-doctoral
 projects (Adekola, Bailey, Garlick, Schofield, Schwendel). Moving forward, the emphasis for the
 unit is, in alignment with the research and impact strategy, to grow and deepen selected
 partnerships with non-academic organisations at local, national, and international level (see
 Section 1). The latter ensures a close alignment between research activities and the
 requirements of industry, NGOs and governmental institutions. Additionally, they provide staff
 with opportunities to build their personal networks, gain experience working with external
 organisations and enhance their likelihood of attracting competitive research funding. Alongside
 collaboration with colleagues at other academic institutions, interdisciplinary cooperation within
 HUM and across schools has already enabled successful bids for funding and will be promoted
 in future to unlock complementary expertise, technical skills and facilities, and to strengthen the
 unit’s research themes.

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Adekola’s collaborations include a Rising from the Depths funded project with Ulster University
 and Pedagogical University, Mozambique, aimed at promoting the use of local knowledge in the
 management of marine cultural heritage; and a Royal Academy of Engineering funded project
 with researchers in Kenya (Kenya Marine and Fisheries Research Institute, Aquaculture
 Association of Kenya and Lattice Consulting), exploring adaptation of aquaculture infrastructure
 to climate hazards. He is also involved in collaboration with University of Plymouth, the Nigerian
 Institute for Oceanography and Marine Research and Bangladesh University of Engineering and
 Technology to develop sustainable processes that can be implemented to current ship-breaking
 practices in developing countries.

 Adekola and Schwendel have led an interdisciplinary team from the HUM on a project that
 promotes community and stakeholder participation in creating resilience and adaptation to flood
 risk.

 Schwendel is actively engaged in various projects, including the assessment of the sediment
 yield of Storm Desmond (2015) in the Lake District in order to inform sediment management
 (with colleagues in Hull and Salford); the geophysical exploration of palaeo-channels on upland
 valley floodplains to aid river restoration (in partnership with the National Trust, Hull and Salford);
 the geomorphological recovery of a mountain catchment from flash floods (collaboration with the
 University of Hull); the reconstruction of proglacial fan deposits on the Isle of Arran and the
 identification of pre-Ipswichian cliffs on the Yorkshire coast (with colleagues in Hull and Derby).
 He is leading a project on the appraisal of the topographic effects of a river meander cut-off and
 associated sediment and habitat management (in partnership with the Yorkshire Wildlife Trust).
 In York a collaborative project between the City Council, the Environment Agency and St Nicks
 Centre for Nature and Green Living is carrying out an urban stream restoration programme with
 high community engagement for which Schwendel acts as a scientific advisor.

 The unit supports Bailey’s involvement as senior scientist at the Romania field site of Operation
 Wallacea, a conservation research organisation that provides an academic and NGO network for
 the design and implementation of biodiversity research and expeditions. Bailey is also involved
 in collaborations with the University of Nottingham on buffering biodiversity against climate
 change in the Arctic, with Nottingham Trent University on lemur behaviour, and on endemic
 species with colleagues in Madagascar. Bailey has a leading role in a global collaboration on
 essential variables for geodiversity and he forms part of the SoilTemp database consortium.

 Couper and Garlick are leading a joint project with Natural England on the historical and
 contemporary cultural significance of nature and landscape within the Humberhead Peatlands
 National Nature Reserve.

 Fitzpatrick is working with colleagues at Oxford Brookes University, Coventry University and the
 Warrington Museum and Art Gallery on bringing the archive of the Warrington New Town
 Development Corporation into public view via exhibitions and online resources.

 Parks is working with colleagues in the School of Performance and Media Production, the Royal
 Northern College of Music and University of Northumbria on measuring outcomes of community
 music projects in relation to geographical conceptualisations of social sustainability. She is also
 working on projects that will feed into the university Strategy 2026 with colleagues in HUM, the
 University Secretary’s Office, and Student Services on black, Asian and minority ethnic (BAME)
 experiences of studying and working at YSJU and of living in York, as well as academic
 approaches to embedding education for sustainable development in teaching.

 Building on an existing collaboration with colleagues at Boston University, USA, University of
 Massachusetts, USA, University of Salford and University College London, Schofield received
 HUM funding to carry out research at Harvard Forest to undertake experimental forest
 measurements with a novel terrestrial laser scanner. Schofield is also involved in a collaborative


                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 project with Schwendel and the Yorkshire Wildlife Trust on the modelling of habitat changes due
 to fluvial dynamics in a nature reserve with sensitive species.

 Networks
 Members of the unit are engaged in respective discipline-specific learned societies (e.g., RGS,
 European Geoscience Union, British Society for Geomorphology, Remote Sensing and
 Photogrammetry Society, British Ecological Society [BES], UK Advising and Tutoring) and
 research networks, and have assumed leadership positions within these, including committee
 roles for Couper on the RGS History and Philosophy of Geography Research Group and Bailey
 on the Macroecology Special Interest Group of the BES.
 All members of the unit are senior fellows, fellows or associate fellows of the Higher Education
 Academy.

 Garlick has instigated the York Environmental Humanities Network, Fitzpatrick is a member of
 the Association of New Towns and Archives and Schofield is a member of the Terrestrial Laser
 Scanning International Interest Group.

 Contributions to scientific base and society
 The expertise and leadership in research of members of the group has been acknowledged
 through invited talks and session chairs at international conferences and invited lectures at
 various institutions nationally and internationally. These include Parks organising and chairing a
 session at the Nordic Geographers Meeting (2019), and Couper being an invited member of
 conference panel discussions at RGS (2017 and 2018).

 Parks organised the Community Music and Human Geography Symposium in 2018 at YSJU
 which explored social sustainability in context of research and practice in these disciplines. In
 2020, Bailey was involved in organising a workshop on tropical ecology for the BES, and
 Adekola and Schwendel are organising a stakeholder workshop on flood risk and social justice
 in York.

 Many members of the group have been invited as speakers in discipline-related lectures and
 seminars, including Schwendel at the University of Plymouth (2014), Couper to give the annual
 public “Lovatt Lecture” at the University of Worcester (2015), Garlick at the University of
 Cambridge (2016), Couper at the University of Bergen, Norway, (2017) and Schwendel at the
 University of Graz, Austria (2018).

 As part of engagement with the wider public, Adekola, Bailey and Garlick have published articles
 in The Conversation and Earth Heritage. Bailey has been invited to give an outreach talk to the
 Harrogate U3A Science and Technology Group. Bailey and Schwendel regularly engage in
 environmental consultancy activities.

 Contributions to disciplinary infrastructure
 The standing of the members of the Geography UoA in their academic field is demonstrated by
 numerous contributions to the scientific community. Couper has been invited to submit a chapter
 on epistemology for the International Encyclopedia of Human Geography. Garlick and Fitzpatrick
 were co-editors of special issues in the journals Environmental Humanities and Area,
 respectively. Couper has agreed to be external examiner for a PhD at the University of
 Worcester.

 Furthermore, members of the unit have regularly made contributions to their disciplines through
 peer-reviewing processes on a national and international level. These include serving on the
 advisory panel to the editorial board of the GA journal Geography (Couper), reviewing Economic
 and Social Research Council grant applications (Couper) and numerous reviews of journal
 articles for largely (76%) Q1 publications in Geography and related areas such as Agriculture,
 Ecosystems & Environment; Annals of the American Association of Geographers; Annals of
 Leisure Research; Area; Australian Feminist Studies; Catena; City; Cultural Geographies;
 Diversity and Distributions; Earth Surface Processes and Landforms; Environmental Humanities;

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Environmental Science & Policy; Freshwater Science; Fundamental and Applied Limnology;
 Geocarto International; GeoHumanities; Geomorphology; Global Ecology and Biogeography;
 Journal of Adventure Education and Outdoor Learning; Journal of Biogeography; Journal of
 Consumer Culture; Remote Sensing in Ecology and Conservation; Local Environment; Public
 Understanding of Science; Science of the Total Environment; Social & Cultural Geography;
 Society and Animals; Transactions of the Institute of British Geographers and Urban Studies.

 The unit regularly contributes to the dissemination of research at national and international
 conferences such as the RGS annual conference, Association of American Geographers
 conference, BES Macroecology conference, British Society for Geomorphology annual meeting,
 European Geosciences Union annual meeting, International Biogeography Society conference,
 International Conference of Historical Geographers, I. S. Rivers, UK Advising and Tutoring
 conference.




                                                                                         Page 11
