Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of St Andrews

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 11: Computer Science

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
                                   Unit Context and Structure
 The School of Computer Science comprises 32 Category A academics. We have fostered, and
 are careful to preserve, a collegiate, collaborative school with a substantial emphasis on
 interdisciplinary research, benefitting from the other world-class schools in the arts and sciences
 at St Andrews. We are small and therefore agile enough to respond quickly to the constant
 changes in our discipline, such as the recent rapid rise of artificial intelligence and machine
 learning. We are large enough to achieve critical mass in the areas on which we have chosen to
 focus, organised into five internationally-recognised research groups investigating diverse
 theoretical and practical aspects of software and systems:
    •   Artificial Intelligence. Computational algebra; computational argumentation; decision-
        making and optimisation via constraint programming and propositional satisfiability;
        intelligent intrusion detection in cybersecurity; image processing; responsible and legal
        AI.
    •   Computer Systems. Cloud computing; data analytics, integration, and linkage;
        middleware; networking, distributed and autonomic systems; software engineering;
        wireless and sensor networks.
    •   Health Informatics. AI in precision therapeutics; computational models of cancer
        treatment and infectious diseases; software for medical devices and data analytics.
    •   Human-computer Interaction. Distributed learning environments; input and output
        technologies; intelligent interactive systems; natural language processing; pervasive and
        ubiquitous computing; privacy; visualization; virtual reality.
    •   Programming Languages. Compiler technology; functional programming;
        parallel/concurrent systems; generative programming; language design; type systems.
 At REF2014, the School was organised into broad research themes containing several small,
 focused research groups. We reorganised into a larger group structure for inclusiveness and to
 foster collaboration. Our groups are valuable but not constraining: many academics are members
 of more than one group and/or carry out research involving several groups (e.g. co-supervision of
 PhD students).
 Each group has a leader responsible for organising seminars and activities such as research away
 days, publicising the group, providing feedback on grant proposals, and mentoring PGR students
 and contract research staff. Group leaders manage a budget (5% of the School operational
 budget) to support group activities, conference travel, attendance at events to disseminate
 research and generate impact. The group membership decides the group leadership.
 Our groups are heavily involved in interdisciplinary work beyond the School (Figure 1), see also
 Institution-Level Environment Statement, ILES, 2.5. Eight of our academics are members of the
 Centre for Interdisciplinary Research in Computational Algebra (CIRCA, Miguel is deputy director),
 established in 2000 to support collaboration between Computer Science and the School of
 Mathematics and Statistics. Eleven of our academics are members of the Institute for Data
 Intensive Research (IDIR), which gathers researchers from nine Schools across the University.
 The Mackenzie Institute for Early Diagnosis places data analytics at the core of several healthcare
 grand challenges and involves several members across the School. Dearle and Dobson are on its
 management board. Seven of our academics are members of the Centre for Research in
 Ecological and Environmental Modelling (CREEM), focusing on machine learning and sensor data
 analytics in the field. The School helped establish the engineering focus centre (E@ST), bringing
 our staff working on sensing, 3D prototyping, and machine learning together with colleagues
 developing new materials, medical and environmental devices.



                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Further active collaborations exist with academics in the Schools of Biology, Chemistry,
 Geography and Sustainable Development, History, Management, Medicine, Modern Languages,
 Physics and Astronomy, and Psychology. Externally, our staff collaborate with industry and
 academics worldwide (Figure 2, below).




    Figure 1 – Computer Science Group Structure and Wider Interactions within the University
 The Research and Impact Committee (RIIC) oversees and promotes research and impact within
 the School, setting and reviewing research leave policy, encouraging research group activity and
 funding applications, making decisions on competitive research applications, and planning and
 documenting impact. The Director of Research convenes RIIC, which includes the group leaders,
 the Directors of Impact and Postgraduate Research, and representatives from contract research
 staff, postgraduate research students, and the Equality and Diversity Committee.
 The School is part of SICSA, the Scottish Informatics and Computer Science Alliance, a
 collaboration of Scottish Universities aiming to develop and extend Scotland’s position as a world
 leader in Informatics and Computer Science research and education. We benefit substantially from
 a collective voice with government and access to a larger community for collaboration, organised
 through research themes such as AI, cyber security and data science, each with an active
 programme of workshops and events. SICSA provides a broader experience for our PGR students
 through its Graduate Academy, which runs a highly successful annual PhD conference where
 students can present, network, and attend workshops and talks. Furthermore, SICSA runs
 DemoFest, an annual knowledge exchange event gathering researchers, industry practitioners
 and investors. The School was a founder member of SICSA and has been central to its
 governance and development (Section 4).
                      Research Objectives During the Assessment Period
 The best research and greatest impact come from supporting our staff with the freedom and
 opportunity to pursue their interests. Different individuals and topics may require different patterns
 of collaboration, funding and dissemination, so we do not impose a single research group
 structure, or rigid expectations regarding funding and publication, instead supporting and

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 encouraging each researcher to generate knowledge however suits them. We review our strategic
 aims in support of this philosophy since REF2014:
    •   To foster a culture that provides the freedom to pursue individual research directions, and
        values and supports blue-sky research.
    A salient example of a highly successful piece of basic research is The Complexity of N-queens
    Completion by Gent, Jefferson and Nightingale (Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research,
    2017). This curiosity-driven work proves a foundational result about a variation of the famous
    chess puzzle once studied by Gauss. It received considerable media attention.
    •   To deepen and diversify our funding sources to fit our intellectual shape, provide continuity
        for our talented contract researchers, and enable us to respond quickly to opportunities
        requiring a rapid turnaround.
    We have balanced substantial multi-year grants, such as the four-year EPSRC programme
    grant Science of Sensor System Software (EP/N007565/1, £900K at St Andrews held by
    Dobson), with smaller pieces of funding to address immediate practical problems, such as
    Harris-Birtill’s work with Canon Medical (£46K) using deep learning in medical technology.
    Our funding income has increased by 30% relative to the last REF period. In terms of diversity,
    we have increased our funding from the EU, such as the SERUMS project (£500K of €4.7M
    held by Bowles, coordinated from St Andrews), and other sources, such as Infineon
    Technologies (£194K Harris-Birtill). Miguel provides an example of an academic who has
    attracted both blue-skies funding (EP/P015638/1, £870K A Constraint Modelling Pipeline) and
    application-driven (Financial portfolio rebalancing with Butterfly Catcher Ltd funded via a
    Scottish Funding Council Innovation Voucher) in a single area – Constraint Programming in
    this instance.
    •   To grow and strengthen our research groups, exploring new areas and synergies across
        the university and externally as interest and opportunities arise.
    Our Health Informatics Group was established in this period to exploit collaboration
    opportunities with the School of Medicine and beyond. It has been highly successful, growing
    to include seven of our academics with collaborations locally, nationally (e.g. NHS Scotland),
    and internationally (e.g. Zuyderland Medisch Centrum, The Netherlands).
    We have appointed twelve academics across our research groups in this period, growing from
    28 to 32 category A staff. Our strategy has been to strengthen our groups while gaining the
    opportunity to explore new directions. Akgün, for example, strengthened constraint
    programming and data linkage in the AI and systems groups, also bringing expertise in data
    mining. Arandelovic strengthened our expertise in machine learning while providing several
    new collaboration opportunities with medicine.
    •   To develop the careers and international profiles of our staff and students along their
        chosen mix of academic and industrial career paths.
    The School granted Henderson a year-long sabbatical to study a law degree, experience he
    reinvested into his research, such as his work on the right to data portability, and teaching
    within his module on data ethics and privacy. The School was similarly supportive of Barker’s
    two periods with Google as a Visiting Scientist. Voss spent the academic year 2018–19 in the
    Department of Philosophy at Harvard University supported by a Leverhulme International
    Fellowship. We made duty allocation and remote work arrangements to enable him to extend
    his stay into 2019–20.
                                        Achieving Impact
 Impact is an integral part of the School's research pathway. 5% of the School's operations budget
 is reserved for impact activities, and we specialise the University's support structures according
 to the needs of our diverse research base. At different technology-readiness levels we regularly
 leverage Impact Acceleration funding from EPSRC, Global Challenge Research funding to
 engage in large-scale interdisciplinary projects with global significance, and Innovation Vouchers
 for small-scale close-to-market engagements with Scottish SMEs. We use the School's funding

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for activities we see as in the long-term interest but which cannot attract immediate external
 funding. We have found that many relationships take years to develop, so in 2018 the School
 established the biennial St Andrews ROCS (Research Open day in Computer Science) event,
 where prospective industrial partners are invited to the School to pitch their activities and hear
 about potential collaboration opportunities.
 Our three impact case studies reflect how the various strands of our research lead to significantly
 different impacts. Bhatti's basic research in network protocols is leading to a sea change in how
 internet traffic is routed, gaining significant momentum as interest has built within the global
 communications technology community and the ILNP protocol moves towards standardisation.
 The School has supported Bhatti's attendance of IETF meetings as an essential part of advancing
 the standardisation process, without which such basic research cannot gain industrial traction.
 The complexity of modern processors makes it imperative that functional units can be described
 and formally verified for individual correctness and overall consistency. Sarkar's conformance
 testing system is routinely used within large hardware companies (e.g. IBM) to test processors
 before release, and has identified subtle problems before production, saving significant costs. The
 approach is gaining wider impact through its use with ARM processor cores, found in almost all
 mobile devices. This work validates taking the long-term view of potentially impactful relationships,
 arising from long-standing academic and industrial partnerships that the School helped Sarkar to
 maintain and develop.
 The School has devoted considerable staff and system resources for over twenty years to the
 development and support of the GAP open-source computer algebra system. Being open source
 has made GAP into a standard component in this area, in a way that would have been most
 unlikely for a commercial product. Consequently, it is used for research and teaching of topics in
 advanced mathematics across numerous universities and research institutions worldwide, and
 has been cited in thousands of research publications (https://bit.ly/gap_citations).
                              Supporting Interdisciplinary Research
 As Figure 1 illustrates, interdisciplinary research is at the heart of what we do. We are located
 close to all other schools in the university, facilitating networking and events crucial to fostering
 and sustaining interdisciplinary collaboration. An illustrative example is the long-running CIRCA
 seminar series that brings together local and external mathematicians and computer scientists,
 supporting a fruitful stream of collaborative work. Centres such as CIRCA and IDIR were
 established directly to encourage interdisciplinary research; the School is active in their leadership
 and development.
 In creating, and recruiting to strengthen, the Health Informatics research group the School has
 invested substantially in growing our collaboration with the School of Medicine, exploiting our
 expertise in artificial intelligence, data science and human-computer interaction. This has proven
 highly successful, for example resulting in Kelsey’s high-profile collaboration with NHS Lothian on
 fertility preservation following cancer treatment.
                        Progressing Toward a Culture of Open Research
 The School has an established culture of openness regarding our software and research materials
 (ILES, 2.4). Researchers routinely make software and resources available on GitHub and Figshare
 – examples of long-lived open source projects include GAP and Conjure. Miller and colleagues
 share their work recording historic artefacts and sites on publicly available platforms such as
 Sketchfab and Roundme. Henderson co-founded the CRAWDAD wireless network data archive,
 which hosts hundreds of datasets used in thousands of research papers worldwide. He sits on the
 University research data advisory group and has published on data archiving and research
 reproducibility. Gent co-founded and Miguel, Jefferson and Akgün continued to edit CSPLib, the
 world’s major repository of constraint programming benchmarks.
 Konovalov is a trainer for Software Carpentry and delivers training across the University in
 software and data skills for all disciplines. He is also a Fellow of the Software Sustainability
 Institute and the editor of the Journal of Open Research Software, and recently initiated the
 Code4REF project (https://code4ref.github.io/) to encourage researchers to record software
 outputs in University information systems and help the recognition of software as a primary

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research output. We hosted a 2014 summer school on Experimental Methodology in
 Computational Science Research with speakers from the Universities of Cork and Edinburgh,
 Microsoft Research, and the Software Sustainability Institute.
                            Supporting a Culture of Research Integrity
 The School recognises the fundamental importance of research integrity. The School Ethics
 Committee (SEC) has grown to eight academics and one administrator, meeting monthly to
 discuss staff and student ethics applications. Henderson convenes the SEC, sits on the University
 ethics committee and is active in the university ethics management project working group to
 redevelop processes, exercising his research expertise e.g. in data protection and the use of social
 media. He has also published in various applied research ethics venues. All students must
 consider research ethics as part of their final projects, and a new data ethics module for
 undergraduate, MSc and EngD students includes a strand on research ethics. The University
 provides research integrity training for staff.
                            Research Objectives: The Next Five Years
 We believe that St Andrews provides the best environment to research and study computer
 science. Our objective over the next five years is to maintain and strengthen that position.
 Computer Science is a dynamic subject. While there are broadly-agreed foundations it is important
 to ensure that research retains relevance and importance. We maintain an on-going process of
 refining the number, membership, and focus of our research groups, assessing existing groups
 and proposals for new groups from the twin standpoints of marrying blue-skies and applied
 research. Previously, this has led to our strengthening our AI group with hires beyond the core
 competencies of constraints and computational mathematics, adding argumentation (Toniolo) and
 image processing (Arandelovic); and to focusing the increasing work in medical informatics into
 its own Health Informatics Group. The formation of a Research Software group is under way
 following the appointment of Konovalov. It will focus on interdisciplinary computational research in
 all areas (from digital humanities and medical informatics to astrophysics and discrete
 mathematics), development of underpinning research software, training in computational science
 (e.g. drop-in sessions, training workshops), studies in research software and campaigning for the
 recognition of the roles of research software and its developers in research. The group is
 especially interested in reproducibility of computational experiments, which is particularly timely
 given the increasing appreciation of the importance of reproducibility in Computer Science
 research.
 The School is continually deepening and refining its approaches to research and training. During
 this period the School identified a need for a research administrator and industrial liaison to provide
 focus for our dissemination activities. We have integrated this goal within the E@ST initiative
 through the appointment of a coordinator experienced in industrial liaison, who will work across
 the range of engineering activities including those within the School. This change leverages St
 Andrews' small size to find and pursue opportunities benefitting several Schools.
 The University plans a major investment in a new STEM building to house both Computer Science
 and the School of Mathematics and Statistics. A single state-of-the-art facility will promote synergy
 and collaboration within the School, and we will obtain the benefit of strengthening our existing
 collaborations with Mathematics and Statistics, for example via the cross-disciplinary CIRCA,
 CREEM and IDIR centres.
 Section 2. People
                             Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 Our strategy is to recruit, develop, and retain high-quality academic and contract staff engaged
 with our ethos of community and collegiality (ILES, 3).
 Staff Development
 Early-career staff are allocated reduced teaching and administrative loads in their first three years
 and a start-up budget of at least £5K, supplemented when specialised equipment is required. All
 staff have personal overheads funds derived from grant income. Early-career staff are encouraged
 to collaborate with established staff in acquiring first research grants. Brady and Brown, for
                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 example, have successfully obtained first grant funding in this period. New staff are mentored both
 locally and within the institutional structures, including as part of joint mentoring programmes with
 other institutions. Probationary staff are assessed bi-annually over their 2–5 year probation by a
 committee comprising the mentor and two other staff (one full professor). All staff engage in an
 annual confidential review meeting with the Head of School or their PI to discuss career goals and
 agree a plan of action.
 The University is committed to supporting the further development of women. The School has
 supported the attendance of Balasubramaniam, Bowles, Duncan, and Ye at the Aurora
 programme, and of Bowles at the University’s Elizabeth Garrett programme.
 We understand the importance of fellowships to career development, particularly of contract
 research staff within the framework of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers, and encourage and support fellowship applications at all career stages. Proposals
 are shepherded by senior staff, and mock interviews are arranged internally and with colleagues
 from other disciplines. In this period Jefferson has held a Royal Society University Research
 Fellowship; Barker a Royal Society Industry Fellowship; Voss a Leverhulme International
 Academic Fellowship; and Dang a Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship. Kelsey is a Fellow of the
 Royal Society of Medicine, recognising his influential interdisciplinary work. Dobson has been
 elected to Scotland’s national academy as a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.
 The University’s Centre for Educational Enhancement and Development (CEED), Organisational
 and Staff Development Services (OSDS), and Careers Centre provide varied staff development
 courses, such as mandatory training in supervising postgraduate students. Grants are allocated
 for attendance at external staff development events. Our staff, such as Bain, Henderson,
 Konovalov and Torpey provide training for CEED and OSDS on topics such as software carpentry
 and data organisation.
 The School actively manages staff careers. The Career Support Officer leads an annual review to
 assess staff members’ state of readiness for promotion. Staff are then mentored in preparing
 promotion applications. This has led to successes in this period: Barker, Kelsey, Miguel to
 Professor; Arandelovic, Jefferson, Kelsey, Sarkar to Reader; Balasubramaniam, Bowles, Duncan,
 Nacenta, Ye to Senior Lecturer; Letham, Lewis, Terzic to Lecturer; and Janjic to Senior Research
 Fellow.
 We enrich our environment by programmes of outside speakers. Since 1969 the School has run
 a bi-annual Distinguished Lecture Series of world-leading researchers giving a day-long series of
 lectures. In this period these have included: Luca Cardelli (Microsoft Research and Oxford), Carl
 Hewitt (MIT), Jane Hillston (Edinburgh), Maria Klawe (Harvey Mudd College), Julie McCann
 (Imperial), Timothy Roscoe (ETH Zürich). The School hosts a term-time weekly seminar series
 where diverse external speakers present to a general Computer Science audience. Recent
 speakers include: Ankush Jhalani (Bloomberg), Daniel Katz (Illinois), and Marina Romanchikova
 (National Physical Laboratory). The School also supports group-centric seminar series.
 At our weekly Grant-writing Club researchers at all levels share experience (e.g. successful
 proposals, proposal reviews, funding panel experiences), critique work in progress, and present
 ideas. The dissemination of this experience benefits the whole School, and the feedback gained
 from a broad range of viewpoints benefits individual researchers. Miguel’s Constraint Modelling
 Pipeline grant, for example, benefited greatly from discussion at this meeting.
 Staffing and Recruitment
 Applicants’ publication, funding and engagement profiles are benchmarked against what would be
 expected of someone on a trajectory towards a world-leading career, moderated by career stage
 and pathway. In this period we have focused on recruiting early-career staff who, in developing at
 St Andrews, become invested in the School, helping to maintain and strengthen our collegiate
 community.
 We have recruited eight new academics to strengthen all five of our research groups. We have
 balanced appointing the best external candidates (Arandelovic, Clarke, Fayed, Toniolo) with
 recruiting locally from contract research positions, allowing the School to retain those of our best
 researchers seeking an academic career path (Akgün, Brown, Harris-Birtill, Hinrichs, Konovalov,

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Dang), while diversifying our research interests. We have balanced traditional Computer Science
 backgrounds with other disciplines (Harris-Birtill in Physics, Konovalov in Mathematics, Clarke in
 design, Brown with start-up experience).
 Our contract researcher community is key to our success in attracting external funding. 23 such
 staff have been employed in this period, recruited to the same rigorous standards as our
 academics. Testament to their quality is that academic appointments from among our contract
 research staff were made in the face of strong international competition.
 The School has successfully recruited non-UK academics (Canadian, Croatian, German, Italian,
 Serbian, Turkish, Ukrainian, Vietnamese) and contract researchers (Bosnian, Chinese, German,
 Hungarian, Italian, Mexican, Serbian, Spanish, Turkish). 40% of our academic and 20% of our
 contract research appointments have been women. This improves significantly over the previous
 REF period and is significantly above the national average, reflecting our commitment to gender
 balance in Computer Science.
 Leave
 All staff are given regular research leave from teaching and administration of one semester every
 four years. We allocate research leave outside this schedule for staff working on strategically
 significant proposals or projects, or who are identified as benefitting from additional focused
 research time. Henderson, for example, was granted a contiguous year of research leave to study
 a law degree and change the focus of his research.
 Stimulating and Facilitating Exchanges Between Academia and Industry
 We gain valuable experience from seconding our staff to industry, for their own development, to
 establish new partnerships, and to return experience to the School. The School is flexible in
 agreeing a work pattern to accommodate such projects. Examples include Barker’s two periods
 working with Google, producing a high-profile piece of research analysing the performance of the
 Google Borg cluster, and Fayed’s current position at Cloudflare. The St Andrews ROCS event
 was established exactly to stimulate such exchanges.
 Recognising and Rewarding Research and Impact
 Staff and students can apply to a travel budget (11% of the School operational budget), to attend
 a conference, workshop or other such opportunity in the absence of their own funds. This budget
 is derived from academics’ overheads accounts, so all staff contribute and benefit. 10% of this
 budget supports speculative travel activities, for example attending the 2019 Data Science
 Initiative Summer School in Paris, and the 2018 Summer School on Deep Learning in Genoa.
 We have had considerable success with the Scottish Funding Council Innovation Voucher scheme
 (19, worth £105K) to establish new collaborations with SMEs. This activity is incentivised by
 making the entire award available to the staff member involved to spend on research and impact
 activities. Workload adjustments are made for, for example, those involved in writing up impact
 case studies. Impact features strongly in promotion cases: Sarkar, for example, was promoted
 directly to Reader in 2018, substantially due to his work on formally verified hardware concurrency,
 now deployed commercially in all ARM-based devices.
                                             Students
 Our students are highly valued and fully integrated members of our School. We maintain an open,
 approachable culture where students are actively encouraged to interact with staff. This is
 supported by our physical estate, with research students’ offices interleaved with those of staff
 and a single common area for students and staff. Staff are encouraged to propose research-led
 undergraduate and MSc projects, an important resource particularly for those exploring new ideas
 or whose work is not yet supported by external funding or PhD students. The School runs an
 Undergraduate Research Assistant Scheme with 7% of the operations budget, supplemented by
 University funds.
 Recruitment of Doctoral Research Students
 Prospective students are encouraged to correspond directly with potential supervisors, supported
 by administrative mechanisms to help identify supervisors where needed. Applications are the

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 same for internal and external applicants, and include a proposal of the student's devising to gauge
 technical thinking. Students selected for interview are given a relevant paper as the basis for a
 technical discussion. This advantages students by balancing the initial on-paper evaluation, and
 provides an opportunity to boost otherwise weak proposals. Candidates are interviewed by a
 proposed supervisor and Director of PG studies, who agree a recommendation.
 Monitoring and Support Mechanisms, Skills Development
 Our culture prioritises community, emphasising the value of shared learning and experience
 through three mechanisms. First, all students undergo an annual review process in the same
 week, allowing the sharing of support and advice in a potentially stressful experience. The format
 is lightweight and responsive: a 45-minute oral review conducted by two independent members of
 staff. Students and supervisors submit written comments on their training and supervision
 beforehand, and students generate short research reports. Secondly, the School hosts a bi-
 monthly PGR seminar series at which every student, once during their tenure, delivers a 40-minute
 technical talk based on related work, rather than their own. Attendance is mandatory (facilitating
 consistent UKVI engagement monitoring). Finally, the School sponsors an annual residential 2-
 night retreat, where the students organise the programme of research and leisure activities.
                                       Equality and Diversity
 We value our diverse research community, and recognise the need to support staff from any group
 (gender, ethnicity or sexuality, for instance) still underrepresented among computer science
 researchers. Many senior staff roles have been filled by women and BAME staff across the period,
 including Director of Teaching, Director of Impact, research group leaders, EDI and taught-
 programme coordinators. Within this period 40% of academic staff recruited were women and 60%
 were non-UK nationals. We continued our longstanding policy of recruiting over 50% of new staff
 externally, providing a constant stream of new thinking.
 Following our action plan from our Bronze Athena/SWAN award of 2017 we have introduced
 mechanisms to monitor staff recruitment and development, and support measures to counteract
 historical, unconscious or institutional biases. These include checks and adjustments in our
 recruitment processes, such as the language used in job advertisements; on duty allocation;
 before, during or after parental leave; and ahead of the annual promotion round. In planning our
 Distinguished Lecture Series and School seminars diversity is explicitly considered. A new role of
 Career Support Officer monitors these initiatives.
 Constructing our REF Submission
 We have carefully considered equality and diversity in constructing this submission. Following the
 institutional code of practice outputs were selected purely based on an assessment of quality,
 following two blind reviews per output proposed. Check-in meetings with a diverse panel were
 held with each member of staff to be returned. Outputs were selected by attributing their best-
 reviewed paper to each staff member, and then filling the required basket of outputs based solely
 on quality according to the reviews. No expectation was placed upon any staff member to provide
 a particular number of outputs, beyond the minimum. This is reflected in our output profile, which
 does not disproportionately favour any subset of the School. The university has stated that
 attribution of REF outputs will play no role in promotion.
 Study Leave
 Following institutional practice all staff with open contracts on all career tracks are entitled to a
 semester of research or impact paid leave every 4 years. Eligible staff are reminded annually of
 the option to apply for research leave, with mentors and research group leaders also encouraging
 staff to consider research leave at appropriate times. This process is monitored by the Career
 Support Officer. The Head of School has supported every application made in this period.
 Flexible and Remote Working
 Staff need for flexible working is considered when duty and timetabling preferences are sought
 annually. The diverse School Management Group also considers staff requests to balance
 personal and family commitments even without a formal flexible working agreement. For example,


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 some staff have been assigned teaching in a block or scheduled to allow days free from teaching
 commitments, or scheduled all teaching in one semester.
 Career Pathways for Part-time and Fixed-term Staff
 The School has a strong track record of accommodating staff wishing to work part time, and of
 guiding fixed-term staff into permanent positions. Connor and Salamon are examples of academic
 and contract research staff currently working part time; Harris-Birtill, Sarkar, Terzić and Toniolo
 provide examples of staff who have moved from fixed-term to open contracts.
 We provide continuity of employment by naming our contract researchers on follow-up funding
 applications and, where appropriate, moving researchers between grants. Examples of such
 movement to provide continuity include Barwell, Brown and Hoffmann. Furthermore, the University
 covers short gaps in funding, which supported Morrison for three months. Contract research staff
 are actively encouraged and supported in applying for open posts (see above).
 Facilitating Those with Caring Responsibilities, Ill Health, or Disability
 The school travel fund (see above) is used to support all staff in attending conferences, courses,
 and training, administered by the School Manager and the Director of Research. We allow staff
 and students to specify travel that fits their individual circumstances.
 One member of the School is legally blind. The School has invested in assistive technology and
 human assistance as required, for example for explaining diagrams and accompaniment to
 conferences. We also took the opportunity to ensure that all the School’s facilities, information,
 and services were accessible to all.
 Funding Applications, Promotion and Reward, Recruitment
 A group including the Career Support Officer, Equality and Diversity Convener, Director of
 Research, Director of Teaching and Staff Welfare Officers meet before the annual promotion
 round to consider all staff eligible for promotion. The aim is to ensure systematic consideration of
 all eligible staff. One-to-one meetings are organised either to encourage individuals to apply for
 promotion in the current academic year, or to suggest actions to strengthen their case for
 promotion.
 Leadership roles are advertised to all eligible staff, who are encouraged to consider applying.
 Appointments to these roles are made by the School Management Group.
 Returning from Periods of Leave
 A phased return in terms of workload is arranged for staff who return from parental leave or
 absences due to illness. Staff returning from such leave meet with Head of School or a delegate
 to discuss their requirements. Supervisors of research students returning from similar
 circumstances or Leaves of Absence discuss plans and strategies for pragmatic re-engagement.
 Staff with Protected Characteristics
 We follow recommendations from the University Occupational Health unit and Student Services
 on providing support and resources required for staff and students with disabilities. Arrangements
 for events organised for research students consider protected known characteristics of the cohort.
 Staff and students are encouraged to approach relevant role holders, such as the Head of School,
 Staff Welfare Officers, Equality and Diversity Convener or Student Welfare Officers, to discuss
 support required in relation to a protected characteristic.
 Staff have access to University staff networks such as the Staff BAME Network and Women in
 Science St Andrews (WISSA) to meet, network and collaborate with others.
 Wellbeing
 The School has student and staff welfare officers, allocated to one male and one female staff
 member. They act as an optional first point of contact for discussing problems or concerns for
 those who do not wish to speak to academic co-ordinators or line managers, and signpost
 individuals to appropriate further help and guidance, often within the Human Resources or
 Occupational Health units.


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Mentors help new staff to settle into school life and offer guidance on career, research and
 teaching matters. Supervisors monitor the wellbeing of research students. Students are allocated
 a second supervisor as additional support and research groups provide a further support
 framework. Annual review meetings provide an opportunity for research students to discuss their
 wellbeing with two independent staff members.
 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Income and Research Funding
 The School’s total grant income has risen by 30% to around £9M in this REF period, compared
 with REF2014. We have increased the diversity of our funding sources, with 53% from funding
 councils, 27% EU funding, and the remaining 20% from other sources. Grants have been awarded
 to staff members across all our research groups, with sustained success throughout the period.
 Strategy for Research Income
 The School seeks to diversify its research income and to widen the participation of staff in grant-
 writing. The former is aided by a dedicated University-funded business development manager
 (BDM) tasked with identifying and communicating future and alternative funding sources, and by
 the central Research Funding Support teams who manage contract negotiations and subsequent
 awards (ILES, 4.1). The latter is supported by a programme of mentoring grant-writers co-
 ordinated through our grant-writing club, which the BDM attends. This strategy effectively
 manages the risks of preparing proposals for new versus established venues and keeps us deeply
 engaged with emerging funding strands such as EPSRC’s new investments in mathematical
 sciences, while opening up new opportunities for collaboration.
 We have been increasingly successful in working across St Andrews to pursue cross-disciplinary
 opportunities. Example include CIRCA (computational algebra) and the Mackenzie Institute (early
 diagnostic medicine). The School has recently joined CREEM (ecological modelling), contributing
 expertise in sensing and sensor data analytics. We have also developed collaborations crossing
 the academic and government/NGO sectors, most notably in applying virtual reality techniques to
 cultural heritage, which has led to a substantial number of awards for working with small (and
 otherwise under-served) agencies and sites across the UK and beyond.
 Notable funding obtained
 Major long-term funding includes:
    •   Automated Conflict Resolution in Clinical Pathways (Bowles, 2014).
        £334K EPSRC.
    •   CoDiMa (CCP in the area of Computational Discrete Mathematics) (Linton, 2014).
        £293K EPSRC.
    •   OpenDreamKit (Linton, 2015).
        £630K EU.
    •   C3 Scalable Shared Memory via Consistency-directed Cache Coherence (Sarkar, 2015).
        £213K EPSRC.
    •   Science of Sensor System Software (Dobson, 2015).
        £911K EPSRC.
    •   A Constraint Modelling Pipeline (Miguel, 2016).
        £870K EPSRC.
    •   Modelling and Optimisation with Graphs (Jefferson, 2017).
        £266K EPSRC.
    •   Connected Culture and Natural Heritage in the Northern Environment (Miller, 2017).
        £139K EU.
    •   Adaptive Brokerage for the Cloud (Barker, 2017).
        £380K EPSRC.
    •   Teamplay (Brown, 2017).
        £374K EU.


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Stochastic models to enable tailoring of medications to patients with multiple morbidities
        (Bowles, 2018).
        £157K MRC.
    •   Millimetre Wave Radar-On-Chip (Harris-Birtill, 2018).
        £193K EU.
    •   SERUMS (Bowles, 2018).
        £505K EU.
    •   A Learning, Optimising Compiler for Computational Group Theory (Jefferson, 2018).
        £202K Royal Society.
    •   Programming as Conversation: Type-Driven Development in Action (Brady, 2019).
        £367K EPSRC.
    •   Keep Learning (Miguel, 2020, joint with Napier).
        £464K at St Andrews, EPSRC.
 In addition, we have obtained over £200K in short-term and small-scale funding for collaboration
 with SMEs and charity sites.

 Management Structures for Research

 The Head of School leads the School’s research management team and centres around a Director
 of Research with responsibility for research strategy and operations, aided by a Director of Impact
 responsible for non-academic applications of research, a Director of Post-graduate Research
 responsible for our PhD and EngD programmes, and a Director of Infrastructure responsible for
 developing and maintaining our computing and storage infrastructures. An independent Ethics
 committee is charged with ethical approval of all projects, liaising with the institutional ethics
 bodies. This committee has grown in significance alongside the growth in projects tackling digital
 medicine and novel interfaces.
 Communication is vital in keeping staff informed of opportunities and in gaining feedback to
 management on decisions. The Head of School maintains a monthly journal circulated to staff,
 while the Director of Research circulates a weekly research update of funding and consultancy
 opportunities. Twice-yearly staff councils provide opportunities for feedback. The School maintains
 a staff handbook to codify processes in research and other areas of operation, and various social
 media feeds to celebrate successes as a means to encourage additional activities. The School
 has a universal “open door” culture providing easy access to senior management.
 Each research group has a group leader and a budget, renewed annually, to support seminars
 and other team-building activities.
 Operational Investments and Funding
 The school has an operational budget of £1.3M per annum of which £793K is discretionary and
 from which the school ring-fences £285K for PGR scholarships, £150K for equipment, and £80K
 for casual salaries. Of the remainder, we allocate:
    •   11% to a travel pot available to all staff and research students for research related travel,
        managed by a committee that considers requests for funding;
    •   10% to staff research accounts for staff to fund their own activities;
    •   5% to research groups to spend on research group activities for example invited speakers,
        research group away days;
    •   7% to school funded internships, which last year provided internships for 19 students with
        a further 2 internships from non-operational budgets.
 The strategic goal of this funding is to ensure that the School has the opportunity to pursue
 research ideas ahead of grant funding, and in areas where funding opportunities are sparse. This
 ensures equality of opportunity for students and researchers in all the research we conduct.
 Equality and Diversity

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 As the School has diversified its staffing and research portfolio over the REF period, the School
 management group has championed diverting resources from other areas of the School’s budget,
 allocating funding to prime and support the new activities so that new staff are facilitated in
 developing their careers and independent collaborations. This has involved a move away from
 traditional computing infrastructure to create novel facilities in emerging technologies. One
 example is our new work in physical computing, complementing our existing sensor and HCI
 activities, which is requiring investment in a range of prototyping and 3D fabrication equipment.
 Another is the increased emphasis on medical data analytics, which has significant specialist
 requirements for (especially) storage.
 Operational Infrastructure and Facilities
 The School’s research group structure has enabled us to plan the development of infrastructure
 that will be of significant shared value, rather than devoting private facilities to individual projects.
 In addition to specialised equipment we have:
     •   Increased physical and virtualised compute capacity accessible to researchers across the
         School. New facilities include a 24-node compute cluster, GPU-equipped workstations and
         additional VM hosting capacity.
     •   Installed faster, higher-capacity network storage.
     •   Developed capacity to provision dedicated single-host and cluster-based virtualised
         computing, networking, and storage configurations for repeatable experiments.
     •   Allocated funding to commercial cloud computing credits.
     •   Redeveloped of our HCI laboratory through moving to venue with 50% more floor space
         allowing for more area to be dedicated to experimental setups.
 The School occupies two dedicated adjacent buildings, within which it is free to develop the space
 for teaching and research uses. Our dedicated server room caters for production and experimental
 systems and hosts a range of modern, enterprise-grade servers for compute, hosting and storage.
 These facilities have been provided by investment from the University and from a variety of
 research grants. They are supported by a highly-qualified team of three technicians (including one
 with extensive hardware development experience) and two systems administrators.
 In this period our buildings have seen significant investment in network infrastructure for client and
 server networks (covering offices, server room and research and teaching laboratories) providing
 higher data rates and increased redundancy. Furthermore, our student laboratories have been
 redeveloped to move their focus from lecture venues to spaces aimed at supporting group-based
 and individual development work to better support research-driven teaching and PGR research.
 The School operates a five-year equipment replacement cycle with an annual £150K budget,
 allowing us to regularly update our compute and storage provisioning. This approach ensures that
 the School’s hardware and software systems are up-to-date and can adapt quickly to follow
 developing technology trends and to meet changing requirements. Staff’s personal machines are
 upgraded from the central budget, to ensure that capabilities are not limited by grant income.
 The School has had significant investment in its estate from the University during the REF period,
 with over £510K spent on improvement work (additional to maintenance). This included major lab
 refurbishment, work to create additional research space, new network infrastructure for client and
 server networks (covering offices, server room and research and teaching laboratories) to provide
 higher data rates and increased redundancy. Student laboratories have been redeveloped to
 move their focus from lecture venues to spaces aimed at supporting group-based and individual
 development work to better support research-driven teaching and PGR research activities.
 General improvements to the environment have included providing baby-change facilities,
 installing a plumbed coffee machine, and sparkling water facilities to reduce carbon footprint.
 Shared and Collaborative Use of Research Infrastructure
 The High-Performance Computing service provided by Cirrus, one of the EPSRC Tier-2 National
 HPC Facilities, has been extensively used by several research projects in the AI group. All of this
 work is computationally heavy and powerful computational resources are essential. The projects

                                                                                                  Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 include a series of studies about automated generation of synthetic benchmark instances, building
 portfolios of streamliners for constraint programming, a proposal of a new and efficient constraint-
 based local search algorithm, and various studies of solving Patience games.
 Specialist Research Infrastructure and Facilities
 In addition to our general infrastructure the School has made a number of highly specialised
 investments in support of specific strands of the research strategy. The School has in-house
 facilities, supported by extensive expertise, for fabricating experimental electronic devices and
 physical components through 3D printers and CNC systems. These include:
    •   3D printing and fabrication facilities for physical computing, complementing facilities
        available at institutional level by targeting rapid small-scale prototyping ahead of larger
        commitments.
    •   Funding training for a drone piloting licence that allows the Virtual Worlds group to carry
        out drone-based photography and video capture, in-house.
 Benefits in Kind
 In addition to these investments, the School has benefited significantly from in-kind contributions
 from industry. Notable examples include:
   • An 84” Microsoft Surface Hub.
   • Google Soli radar devices.
   • Nvidia GPU grant program awards.
 Library resources
 The University’s recently-refurbished main library is well-supplied with physical and electronic
 resources. Operating both centrally and from a mathematical sciences annex in the neighbouring
 Physics building, the Library provides electronic and physical subscriptions to all the major journals
 in computer science and adjacent areas, as well as providing subscription-based access to several
 book series in e-book form. Reciprocal arrangements with over 20 other university libraries further
 extend the resources that are directly available to support research. The University’s strategic plan
 favours the provision of resources in digital form, which enormously increases accessibility while
 reducing both storage requirements and carbon footprint.
 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society




 Figure 2 – Computer Science: Map of Academic (blue/circle) and Industrial (red/’i’) Collaborators



                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
 We have a large base of cross-School, cross-institutional, and international collaborations. The
 research grant portfolio includes membership and leadership of Scottish, UK and EU project
 consortia as well as membership of international and US-based activities, including:

    •   Co-management of the CRAWDAD international wireless data archive (Henderson);
    •   Leadership within the IETF in developing future IPv6 standards (Bhatti);
    •   Chair of the IFIP Working Group 2.11 Program Generation and member of Working Group
        2.16 Language Design (Brady),
    •   Providing expertise to the RISC-V ISA specification group (Sarkar),
    •   Contributing to the ISO C++ standardisation effort (Jefferson); and
    •   Management of the CSPLib benchmark library for Constraint Programming (Akgün,
        Jefferson).
 National collaborations are enhanced by our leading role in the Scottish Informatics and Computer
 Science Alliance (see Section 1), creating a collaborative research culture across Scottish
 institutions. We have provided two Directors (Hammond 2016–18, Quigley 2019–20); Graduate
 Academy Director (Miguel 2014-16, Sarkar 2018–); co-theme leader of the Human-Computer
 Interaction theme (Nacenta 2014-18); and leader of the Cybersecurity Nexus (Duncan 2019-).
 Hammond, Quigley and Miguel served on the advisory board of the Data Lab Innovation Centre
 ex officio.

 Our successful international collaborations are underpinned by substantial projects including:

    •   RePhrase (H2020, 2015), coordinated by St Andrews. 9 partners from Israel, Austria,
        Spain, Italy, Hungary, and the UK. The project created tools and techniques for software
        development in parallel programming, including a new C++17 standard for parallelism.
    •   OpenDreamKit (H2020, 2015), coordinated by the Université of Paris-Sud. 19 partners
        from France, Germany, Poland, Norway, the Netherlands, and the UK. The project resulted
        in new libraries, tools, standards, and demonstrators for modern computational
        mathematics teaching and research.
    •   Teamplay (H2020, 2018), coordinated by Inria. 11 partners from Germany, Greece,
        Denmark, France, Spain, the Netherlands, and the UK. The project is developing new
        programming language techniques to reason about non-functional properties such as time,
        energy and security.
    •   Serums (H2020, 2019) coordinated by St Andrews. 10 partners from Israel, Austria, Spain,
        Cyprus, the Netherlands, Belgium, and the UK. Serums focuses on future healthcare
        provision, enhancing personal care and maximising treatment quality, while ensuring
        patient trust in the security and privacy of their data.
 Relationships with Beneficiaries
 We maintain fruitful long-term relationships with users and beneficiaries of our work.
 Digitising Scotland is digitising 24 million Scottish records of births, marriages and deaths dating
 from 1856. With colleagues at The University of Edinburgh, Queens University Belfast, The
 Australian National University and the National Records of Scotland we are performing record
 linkage on this dataset using new metric search techniques whose accuracy is calibrated against
 ground truth information from a Swedish dataset.
 With Marine Scotland Science and CREEM we are developing machine learning techniques to
 automatically process decades of images of salmon scales to understand salmon behaviour over
 long periods. We collaborate with the Scottish Oceans Institute in the re-identification of skate,
 and the sizing/sexing of lobsters from images, essential techniques for estimating wild population
 sizes. This collaboration has leveraged MSc and PhD studentships, and led to funding
 applications.
 Researchers at the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research use Brady’s Idris language for
 formalising models of decision procedures applied. This has led to two co-authored papers as well

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 as improved tooling, libraries and automated reasoning support.
 Adobe Ltd support internships, undergraduate scholarships and doctoral scholarships for our
 students. Several former PhD students have moved to Adobe Labs and continue to work with us.
 Technology developed in St Andrews for managing and interacting with cloud-scale data is being
 used on an experimental basis within Adobe.
 Our computational mathematics research is based on strong relationships with the community of
 researchers and teachers in mathematics, physics, and chemistry. Konovalov disseminates
 expertise in managing large-scale open-source software projects with communities through his
 work as a Fellow of the Software Sustainability Institute and with the Society of Research Software
 Engineering. His PLOS Computational Biology paper “Ten Simple Rules for taking advantage of
 Git and GitHub” was among the top 50 most downloaded papers across all PLOS journals in 2016.
 Our sensor analytics work is used for monitoring industrial pollution, and for improving the
 sensitivity of commercial devices for detecting microbial resistance. We focus on making it easier
 to design such experiments, and to interpret and respond to the results, which makes data far
 more valuable to end-users.
 Our work in complex networks interacts with clinicians studying microbial resistance and similar
 processes. We are improving our ability to simulate how disease pathogens evolve through an
 infection process and how co-infection with multiple diseases affects disease dynamics. We are
 also developing techniques to help understand how small-scale features of human contact
 networks can affect the large-scale behaviour of epidemics.
 Through collaborative research projects in virtual museums including EU LAC Museums, CINE
 Northern Peripheries and Arctic Programme, and CUPIDO North Sea Region Cultural Heritage,
 we contributed significantly to the preservation and accessibility of cultural heritage. Examples
 include:
    •   Virtual Time Machine Exhibits: Illicit Still Experience, Tomintoul and Glenlivet Discovery
        Centre. Lords of the Isles, Finlaggan Heritage Centre. Picts and Pixels Exhibition, Perth
        Museum. Skriduklauster Monastery, Iceland. Medieval Abernethy, Abernethy Museum.
        The Curing Yard, Timespan Museum and Archives. St Andrews Cathedral 1318, Historic
        Environment Scotland.
    •   Virtual Time Binoculars Mobile Apps: Edinburgh 1544, Bennachie Colony, Finlaggan,
        Seat of the Lords of the Isles, St Andrews Cathedral, UIST 360.
    •   Virtual Museum Infrastructure: World War One Roll of Honour, Royal Scots Museum.
        Digital Doors Open, Scottish Civic Trust. SLEAT the South of Skye, SLEAT Development
        Trust, Tay Landscape Partnership.
 Nederhof is a member of the International Association of Egyptologists, the primary body for this
 discipline. Collaborating with the global Egyptological community, he developed extensions
 included in the Unicode 12 international standard to enable the representation of hieroglyphic text.
 Our Health Informatics Group work with medical professionals with different specialisations
 (diabetes, cardiovascular, rheumatoid arthritis and other autoimmune diseases) to investigate
 precision therapeutics as part of Health Data Research UK, and with Rhode Island Hospital, US,
 and Aberdeen Royal Infirmary on radiation oncology. We have worked with clinical oncologists at
 the Western General Hospital, Edinburgh, to develop a new version of NHS Predict, a toxicity
 predictor for breast cancer considering co-morbidities.
 We provide expertise to Copenhagen University Hospital investigating cryopreservation of ovarian
 tissue as a fertility preservation technique. Accurate prediction of attributes (unmeasurable in vivo)
 is needed to quantify differences in the populations investigated, and we apply AI and statistical
 learning to quantify the confidence in results based on small samples. We work with The Wolfson
 Fertility Centre on individualised approaches to assisted conception, adapting our tools and
 techniques for fertility after cancer to the wider problem of helping subfertile couples.
 Our tool CISpaces (Collaborative Intelligence Spaces) was developed alongside expert analysts
 in the UK and US intelligence communities to support analysis of potentially conflicting evidence
 to form plausible hypotheses. Analysts provided requirements for the tool, realistic scenarios, and

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 evaluated the quality of support that the system provides. CISpaces is supported by the US Army
 Research Lab and the UK DSTL, and was selected by the UK and US government partners as
 one of three scientific highlights from the NIS ITA programme. A second version of CISpaces,
 supported by the UK DSTL in the follow-on Defence and Security Accelerator programme, is
 available to professional analysts in the UK Joint Forces Intelligence Group and as an open-source
 tool (cispaces.org).
 Contribution to the Sustainability of the Discipline
 We have established an Engineering Doctorate (EngD) programme, unique in the UK in being
 completely funded by industry through partnerships in directly-impactful research. The School
 provides a programme director (Bhatti) and administrative support. Current industry sponsors
 include Canon Medical, Aggreko, NHS Scotland, and Deutsche Asset Management. Topics
 include image analysis, data science, artificial intelligence, systems engineering, and financial
 systems. Student intake is international, with current students from the UK, Chile, Indonesia, and
 the USA.
 Konovalov is a Fellow of the Software Sustainability Institute (SSI) and a member of the
 Carpentries (https://carpentries.org/), a global volunteer organisation for teaching foundational
 computational and data skills to researchers. As a certified Instructor and Trainer Konovalov has
 co-run 10 Software Carpentry workshops training over 250 researchers, and has trained 20
 Carpentries instructors.
 School staff contribute extensively to summer schools and other tutorial programmes. Highlights
 include Brady’s engagement at the Oregon Programming Languages Summer School 2017 and
 other events in the UK; Henderson’s tutorial at the CRISP surveillance summer school and the
 Estonian cybersecurity summer school; Akgün’s several tutorials on constraint programming at
 the leading international conferences; Nacenta and Hinrich’s workshops on experimental
 methodology and visualisation aimed at building the user communities; and long-term
 engagements with the Scottish Programming Language and Verification summer schools and
 the Erasmus Mundus Dependable Software Systems programme.
 Engagement with Diverse Communities and Publics
 Outreach is conducted by every member of the School through live events, the national press,
 social and traditional media (ILES, 2.8). The School maintains a strong annual presence at SICSA
 DemoFest showcase where we present and demonstrate our work to academia and industry.
 Dearle helped establish the University’s Digital Health Science initiative, which hosts seminars
 attended by academics and NHS members. Bowles has presented her research at Café
 Scientifique, organised by and open to the general public. Gent and Miguel have written articles
 on Artificial Intelligence for the national press, and Gent’s work on n-queens completion was
 featured very widely. His advances in understanding patience games was featured by Major
 Nelson, the most popular Xbox gaming podcast, in their 700th episode. Brady’s book, “Type Driven
 Development with Idris”, has exceeded 5,500 sales. Dobson’s work on epidemic modelling gave
 rise to a general-audience book and an associated web site making all the experimental code
 available to “citizen scientists”.
 Our virtual museum infrastructure has empowered 30 museums in 21 countries across the world
 to understand, explore and digitally preserve their heritage. This includes reconstructions of 25
 subjects, 370 digital artefacts, 109 virtual tours, 73 videos and 18 mobile apps. Our virtual reality
 exhibits have been installed in 17 museums in Scotland with a combined annual footfall in excess
 of 320k people, stimulating local economies by enhancing visitor experience. We have reached
 millions of people through pieces in social and traditional media, including The Guardian, the BBC,
 Google Maps and Facebook.
 The School has a very active outreach programme for schools, with a view to spreading the
 excitement of computer science to a broader range of social groups. This includes several week-
 long residential summer programmes where students attend research-based lectures, labs, and
 other activities organised by members of the School. Examples include events with the Sutton
 Trust as part of the University’s agenda for widening participation; Science Summer Schools
 organised as part of the University Summer Access Experience courses; and First Chances,

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 where local school pupils are supported in their literacy, numeracy and IT skills throughout the
 academic year, culminating in a residential summer school. Throughout the year the School hosts
 day visits from local schools themed around topics such as the development of computing
 technology or the connection between Computer Science and video games. Dearle and
 Balasubramaniam run in-class sessions and an after-school club at a local primary school.
 Codefirst:girls is very popular, with many instructors from our student body: the School provides
 space, competition judges and prizes, and St Andrews was the first university to include this
 course on student transcripts. We supported the creation of a RoboGals chapter in St Andrews,
 providing advice, guidance and equipment. As part of the interdisciplinary module Communication
 and Teaching in Science our undergraduate students visit local schools to design and teach
 lessons in their subject.
 Personal Leadership, Recognition, and Awards
 The leadership of our staff members is widely recognised. Dobson has been elected a Fellow of
 the Royal Society of Edinburgh. Kelsey has been elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Medicine
 and a member of the International Society for Fertility Preservation, and is a Board Member of the
 Managed Services Network for Children and Young People with Cancer, NHS Scotland. Jefferson
 holds a Royal Society University Research Fellowship. Dang has been awarded a Leverhulme
 Early Career Research Fellowship (2020-2023). Barker held a Royal Society Industry Fellowship
 (2014-16). Voss was granted a Leverhulme International Academic Fellowship (2018-19), and has
 been awarded a Technology and Human Rights Fellowship (2020) from the Carr Centre for Human
 Rights Policy and Harvard. Bowles was selected for the Farr Institute’s Future Leaders in Health
 Data Science programme. Several staff have held leadership roles in SICSA (see above). Quigley
 served as SIGCHI Vice President for Conferences (2015–20), is an ACM Distinguished Speaker,
 and served on the board of ScotlandIS, which represents Scotland’s digital technologies industry.
 Sarkar received the ACM SIGPLAN Most Influential ICFP paper award, presented in 2017 (for
 2007). Henderson received best paper awards at: WSDM 2017 Workshop on Mining Online Health
 Reports, 6th International Workshop on Hot Topics in Peer-to-peer computing, Online Social
 Networking (HotPOST 2014). Nacenta received a Best Paper Honourable Mention Award at the
 ACM SIGCHI Conference. Brady was awarded best paper at Trends in Functional Programming
 2014. Quigley was awarded best paper at the 12th ACM International Working Conference on
 Advanced Visual Interfaces, 2014. Dang was awarded best paper in the GECCO 2017
 Evolutionary Combinatorial Optimization and Metaheuristics track.
 Several of our staff, such as Bowles, Dobson, Henderson and Sarkar, are members of the EPSRC
 College. Sarkar was an invited reviewer for ANR France in 2018. Barker is an Independent Expert
 for the European Commission. Dobson has been elected to the steering committee of ASOS, the
 main conference venue for self-adaptive and autonomic systems research. Barker was a Google
 Visiting Scientist in 2016, and a Google Senior Visiting Scientist in 2019.
 Our staff are frequently asked to give invited or keynote talks. For example, Kelsey spoke at the
 4th Biennial World Congress of the International Society for Fertility Preservation, 2015, and the
 61st Annual Meeting of the Canadian Fertility and Andrology Society, 2015. Brady’s invitations
 include IFL 2017, PLACES 2017, TYPES 2017, ML Workshop 2017, BCTCS 2017, SPLASH-I
 2016, Scala 2014, LFMTP 2014. Toniolo was invited to address the first Conference on “Bridging
 the Gap between Formal Argumentation and Actual Human Reasoning”, Bochum, 2018. Quigley’s
 frequent keynote invitations include: Mensch-und Computer Conference, Germany 2019; the 5th
 International HCI and UX Conference 2019; and the IEEE Working Conference on Software
 Visualisation, 2018. Ye gave a keynote talk at an international workshop at PerCom 2019. Dobson
 delivered the keynote at the Conference on Design and Architectures for Signal and Image
 Processing (2018).
 An important aspect of leadership are editorial activities in the high-profile international journals
 across all our areas of interest, which have included computer algebra (Linton: Applicable Algebra
 in Engineering; Konovalov: Journal of Software for Algebra and Geometry), computing systems
 (Linton: Communication and Computing; Barker: IEEE Transactions on Services Computing,
 Journal of Cluster Computing), machine learning (Arandelovic: Information, Pattern Recognition),
 human-computer interaction (Quigley: Proceedings of the ACM on Interactive, Mobile, Wearable

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Ubiquitous Technologies; Nederhof: Transactions of the Association for Computational
 Linguistics), and software technology (Brady: Journal of Functional Programming; Konovalov:
 Journal of Open Research Software; Henderson: IEEE Technology and Society). Special issues
 guest-edited have included topics in machine learning for cultural heritage (Arandelovic: Sci),
 wireless technologies (Bhatti: IEEE Communications Magazine), high-performance computing
 (Brown: International Journal of Parallel Programming, International Journal of High Performance
 Computing), natural language technology (Nederhof: Journal of Language and Modelling), human-
 computer interaction (Quigley: ACM Transactions on Interactive Intelligent Systems, User
 Modelling and User-adapted Interaction), and sensing (Ye: Information, Sensors). Henderson has
 served on the editorial board of ACM Books.




                                                                                         Page 18
