Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Edinburgh (UoE)

 Unit of Assessment: UOA 7

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 1a. Context and structure
 Understanding the Earth and its unique environment is now inextricably linked with questions of
 human agency. Our Unit of Assessment (UoA) rises to this challenge by researching fundamental
 challenges spanning the physical sciences, social sciences, and humanities. We engage directly
 with social, political and geographical aspects of our Earth systems and their impacts, and actively
 work with diverse stakeholders to address real world problems.
 Led by the School of Geosciences (SoG), we are one of the largest multi- and inter-disciplinary
 groupings of geoscientists and geographers in the UK, comprising 132 academic staff (FTE
 123.3), including four environmental archaeologists based in the School of History, Classics and
 Archaeology (HCA), 103 research associates, and 470 postgraduates, half of whom are on taught
 Masters courses. Our scale allows both depth and breadth of approach, and our diversity – a
 critical and enduring strength – generates a thriving culture of interdisciplinarity.
 Our research is organised into three broad thematic areas, Dynamic Earth Systems (DES),
 Accountable Geographies (AG) and Environment and Society (E&S) (Fig. 1). Each theme
 encompasses fundamental disciplinary, interdisciplinary and applied research, including
 translation into solutions. This diversity has enabled us to address the major research challenges
 of our times – from analysing the impacts of climate change on natural and human systems, to
 developing sustainable communities and seeking solutions to environmental problems.




        Fig. 1 Three research themes, with component research strands and outward-
        looking disciplinary collaborations (blue text).

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Major Achievements during this REF period include:
     Sustained growth from 76FTE in RAE2008 and 104FTE in REF2014, to 123.3FTE
       submitted to REF2021, with 35 new academic staff appointed in this REF period, ensuring
       a vibrant and embedded research programme well beyond REF2021.
     Securing £138.6M in research grants and contracts over the REF period, or 1.12M per FTE,
       improving average annual income per FTE from £128K in REF2014 to £160K.
     Securing £29.6M since 2016 of ODA-compatible GCRF/Newton Fund grant awards. We
       lead and host the GCRF Urban Disaster Risk Hub (£20.1M), lead the GCRF Multi-
       hazards and risk initiative (Ixchel) (£3.19M), and are key partners in two of the other
       seven GCRF Hubs (One Ocean and South Asia Nitrogen).
     Securing two consecutive NERC Doctoral Training Partnership awards (value £16.0M),
       and leading the SENSE Centre for Doctoral Training (value £2.2M).
     Competitively renewing/upgrading our world-leading analytical facilities, notably the NERC
       Ion Microprobe Facility (50% NERC-funded, £1.49M in 2018-20) with a new 7f-Geo
       SIMS instrument (£2.90M in 2017) for high precision/high throughput measurements in
       geological and material sciences.
     Leading the UoE Space and Satellites data-driven innovation theme of the £1.3B
       Edinburgh Region City Deal (UoE received £237M from UK and Scottish Governments
       and leveraged partner investments to achieve £661M 2018).
     Generating £25.3M for industry-sponsored research projects, business development and
       innovation activity, ~18% of our total research and innovation income.
     External recognition of our researchers as leaders of their fields: five staff elected Fellows
       of National Academies; four awarded European Research Council Fellowships; five
       awarded Independent Research Fellowships.


 1b. Research strategy
 Our vision is to address the challenge of creating an holistic understanding of the Earth and
 its environmental systems with human agency.
 Building on our three thematic research areas Dynamic Earth Systems (DES), Accountable
 Geographies (AG), and Environment and Society (E&S) which represent communities of practice
 (Fig. 1), we collectively aim to address the major environmental and social research challenges
 (RC) of our times:
 RC1. Understanding, modelling and forecasting the global Earth and Climate system (DES)
 RC2. Reducing Disaster Risk through a more integrated understanding of physical processes and
 the drivers of human vulnerabilities (AG, E&S, DES)
 RC3. Understanding the environmental, social, cultural and political dimensions of human
 geography, including questions of inequality, justice, and health (AG, E&S)
 RC4. Developing low carbon solutions for energy and climate change mitigation (E&S)
 RC5. Promoting sustainable use of resources, including agriculture, forests, landscapes and
 infrastructure (E&S, AG)
 RC6. Exploiting the potential of Earth Observation in the era of big data using drone and satellite
 observations (E&S, DES)
 RC7. Improving our understanding and hence management of marine ecosystems (DES, E&S)


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our Values focus effort on:
     staff development and renewal, by setting and supporting high standards of research
        excellence to address contemporary research challenges (sections 2a, b, d)
     unequivocal commitment to equality and diversity (section 2c)
     hosting and developing a suite of word-class analytical facilities to study diverse systems
        (section 3b)
     maintaining the vibrancy of core disciplines across our diverse portfolio (section 1c), while
     integrating diverse disciplinary approaches to a common goal (section 1e(ii)), and
     ensuring impact arises from relevant research, with early engagement of stakeholders
        (section 1d)
 Research Strategy: Since 2014 we have maintained a healthy disciplinary base, while
 successfully growing multi- and inter-disciplinary research strengths. Intellectual diversity and
 disciplinary interaction have proven to be key assets when tackling contemporary research
 challenges. In line with our vision, we have made several strategic investments since 2014 to meet
 these challenges, with new staff appointments highlighted below.
 In Disaster Risk Reduction (addressing research challenge RC2) we developed a critical mass of
 staff across the natural sciences, social sciences and humanities committed to co-producing
 transdisciplinary research with a range of stakeholders in the global South. We built on strong
 existing capability but broadened the remit to include interdisciplinary analysis of risk and
 resilience (Crowley, Gioli, McCloskey). This strategic growth enabled the success in 2019 of the
 £20.1M GCRF Urban Disaster Risk Hub where we lead a consortium of 11 UK universities,
 international investigators and partners. In addition, the recent 2020 award of our £3.19M GCRF
 Multi-hazards and risk - Ixchel project (Calder, Cupples), resulted from disciplinary appointments
 in natural hazards and critical geography during the REF2014 period.
 In Environmental, social, and political impacts on the geography of inequality (RC3) we lead the
 Scottish Longitudinal Studies Centre, where we expanded the group working on large-scale and
 long-term administrative and statistical data linkage following the Scottish population (Dibben),
 building on data collected during the work of the £6.1M ESRC Administrative Data Research
 Centre for Scotland, where we also led. We complement quantitative studies by qualitative
 research examining the social construction of nature, and addressing questions of environmental
 justice, including a Wellcome Trust award Remaking One Health of £1.45M (Srinivasan).
 We launched the planned Centre for Sustainable Forests and Landscapes in 2018 (RC5),
 investing in a new Chair, Ghazoul, and three other staff (Barnes, Hancock, Watmough), two of
 whom were interdisciplinary appointments. Its mission is to provide interdisciplinary knowledge
 critical to delivering sustainable landscape management and policy development, positively
 impacting carbon budgets (RC1, RC4) with a focus on forested landscape mosaics. This team has
 already won £0.9M in research awards. The Centre leads major initiatives in partnership with
 governmental, business, NGO, and community stakeholders (RC4) through land-based
 approaches.
 In Earth Observation (RC6) we provided critical input to the successful Edinburgh and South-East
 Scotland Regional City Deal bid, leading specifically on the theme of Space and Satellites
 (Collins), and in Geo-Data Driven Innovation more broadly, encompassing themes such as the
 use of artificial intelligence in geophysical imaging and remote sensing. Independently, the UoE
 launch of the £40M Bayes innovation Hub in 2018 enabled the UoA to attract the analytical wing
 of Orbital Microsystems Ltd to the UK from the USA in 2018, with the mission of providing ‘early

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 awareness’ of catastrophic extreme weather events … through better data for better decision-
 making’.
 We significantly expanded our research capability in Marine Science and Policy (RC7) with four
 key appointments (Hennige, Henley, Henry, Roberts) and founded a new Changing Oceans
 Research laboratory, leading to participation in the One Ocean GCRF Hub and our leading the
 €8M H2020 project iAtlantic (Integrated Assessment of Atlantic Marine Ecosystems in Space and
 Time) in 2019.

 Our Strategy encourages an agile response to the evolving research agenda. For example, The
 Scottish Centre for Administrative Data (Dibben) provided timely data and analysis for a number
 of bodies in support of their policy and operational response to the COVID-19 emergency.
 Specifically, the Centre provided guidance to: Police Scotland on their use of temporary powers
 feeding into its Independent Advisory Group, local authorities and Scottish government on risk
 factors that contributed to care home deaths, and to the Scottish government in quantifying the
 impact of COVID-19 on social inequalities. This work will likely have significant implications for
 the planning of agile response to the ongoing and future pandemics.


 1c. Research Themes and achievements
 Our three broad research themes cover a large range of research subjects and approaches (Fig
 1). Below we report on key findings.
 Dynamic Earth Systems (DES) 56.2 FTE: This theme focuses on understanding fundamental
 Earth and Planetary processes and their role in complex Earth systems. We work from micron-
 scale geochemical analysis of seawater and extreme high pressure and temperature experiments
 on analogues of the deep Earth, to planetary scale geophysical processes of geomagnetic activity,
 climate dynamics and the composition and dynamics of exoplanet atmospheres. Examples of this
 work include in:
       Climate change (RC1), we quantified how climate change has already influenced extreme
        events (Tett), the impact of regional aerosol emissions on monsoons (Bollasina), and
        changes in tropospheric ozone (Stevenson, Doherty). We predicted decreased lightning
        under climate change (Doherty) and constrained future warming and precipitation change
        from observations (Hegerl). We analysed ways in which Earth’s rivers, hillslopes and
        basins respond to environmental change (Sinclair), and predicted its impacts on the
        nitrogen cycle (Reay).
       Cryosphere (RC1), we used ice-penetrating radar to image an area the size of London
        beneath West Antarctica’s Pine Island Glacier, discovering diverse subglacial landscapes
        that control ice flow (Bingham). We used novel space-borne altimetric data to discover ice
        shelves in the Amundsen Sea Sector melting strongly along narrow sectors, a key
        constraint for ice shelf and ice sheet stability (Gourmelen).
       Deep Earth, we demonstrated for the first time that oxygen is not a major impurity in the
        core by comparing experimental with global seismological results (Komabayashi). We
        developed the first Interrogation theory - a general method of evidence-based investigation
        to infer dynamics of the Earth's subsurface, elicit expert information, and guide
        autonomous planetary exploration (Curtis).
       Geobiology, we established for the first time an ocean acidification event coincident with
        the biggest known mass extinction (Wood). We showed through statistical analysis of

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        fossil records and CT imaging that dinosaurs went extinct abruptly, quickly replaced by
        placental mammals evolving from small-brained precursors (Brusatte).
 During the REF period, we strengthened this theme through 13 academic appointments including
 three Chancellor's Fellows (CF) and five Independent Research Fellows (IRFs). These include a
 cluster hire in Marine Science (4 staff, section 1b), and in: Geo-Materials and Micro-analysis
 Kelley (also Head of SoG, Chair), Pichevin (Senior Research Scientist); Solid Earth Systems
 Kalnins (RSE IRF/Lecturer); Earth Systems and Resources Arnold, Molnar (Lecturers);
 Edlmann (CF); Earth Observation Collins (CF); Plant nutrition as Earth System Science Street
 (NERC IRF /Lecturer), and Cyrosphere Slater (NERC IRF).
 Accountable Geographies (AG) FTE 24.4: This theme produces socially responsible research
 addressing critical questions about human agency, social justice, cultural meaning and
 environmental values. Operating in diverse contexts across the world, our work employs distinctive
 quantitative and qualitative methodologies. It shares a common purpose: we must be accountable
 for the geographies we produce, and to the communities we collaborate with, while also working
 to explain and ameliorate geographies of inequality and injustice, holding others to account when
 and where they persist. Notable areas of strength include in:
     Disaster Risk Reduction/Critical Geography (RC2/RC3) in Guatemalan communities
       impacted by civil war and volcanic disasters, we examine the drivers of risk through human
       rights and decolonial perspectives and highlight the relationship between community
       organisation and political skills, and resilience and recovery (Cupples, Calder).
     Geographies of Public Health (RC3) ground-breaking research has demonstrated the socio-
       environmental effects of place in producing health inequalities, how the overprovision of
       alcohol and tobacco outlets in UK neighbourhoods negatively impacts on health outcomes,
       and how the introduction of pricing controls can work as a mitigating governmental
       response (Clemens, Pearce, Shortt, Dibben).
     Critical Geography (RC3) inquiries led by ECRs have addressed the ethics, politics and
       ecologies of human interactions with more-than-human worlds, examining contemporary
       meat cultures in India (Srinivasan), the cultural-environmental impacts of agri-food
       systems on Caribbean food security and sovereignty (Wilson) and the social problematics
       of urban gentrification (Kallin).
     Geohumanities (RC3) our published research has forged scholarly interactions between
       geography and multiple humanities disciplines. In original studies of cultural landscapes,
       scientific experimentation and contested environments we have developed influential
       narrative forms of place-writing and life-writing (Cresswell, Hunt, Lorimer, MacDonald,
       Watts, Withers).
 We are committed to supporting the production of research monographs that shape new
 disciplinary agendas (Smoking Geographies, Pearce; Maxwell Street, Cresswell; Travels in Print,
 Withers; Shifting Nicaraguan Mediascapes, Cupples), and that are of a quality reflected in
 international awards (Zero Degrees, Withers) and nominations for national book prizes (Escape
 from Earth, MacDonald; Energy at the Edge of the World, Watts; Zero Degrees (Withers).
 Since REF2014, we have strengthened this research theme through 12 appointments including
 one CF and one that was interdisciplinary: in Geohumanities Cresswell (Ogilvie Chair), Hunt
 (Lecturer); in Cultural Geography Lorimer (Chair), Dixon (Lecturer); in Urban Geography Kallin
 (Lecturer); Krishnamurthy (CF/Living with data); in Political Geography Fitzpatrick (Lecturer); in
 Social Geography Rosenberg (Lecturer); in Environmental Geography Srinivasan (Lecturer); in

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Energy Social Science Watts (Senior Lecturer); in Health, Environment & Inequality Clemens
 (Interdisciplinary Lecturer); and in Quantitative Human Geography/GIS Feng (Senior Lecturer).
 Recognising the diversity of epistemological and methodological approaches in our UoA, 24 % of
 our research outputs (including weighting for double counting) are cross-referred to UoA 14,
 Geography and Environmental Studies.
 Environment and Society (ES) FTE 42.7: This theme addresses fundamental interactions and
 feedbacks between natural and anthropogenic processes, environments, resources, people and
 places. Our aim is to provide research-led solutions to global environmental and societal
 challenges, including RC1-RC7. Notable strengths include:
       Transforming to a low carbon society (RC4) we lead the Scottish Government Centre of
        Expertise ClimateXChange (CXC) (Reay) a national forum for studying methods to
        remediate climate change and prevent future CO2 atmospheric emissions. Enabled by a
        combination of modelling expertise and a globally-unique experimental Geo-Reservoir
        (GREAT) cell, we recreated for the first time, subsurface reservoir conditions to a depth of
        2.5 km (McDermott).
       Sustainability of resources, including forests, landscapes and agriculture (RC5) we use
        techniques enabled by exploiting the potential of space and satellites in Earth Observation
        in the era of big data (RC6). We helped protect and restore up to 300M hectares of tropical
        forests by improving satellite monitoring in six partner countries (Williams) and improved
        estimates of biomass of tropical trees (Ryan). We introduced the first global mapping of C
        residence times for vegetation pools (Mitchard, Williams). We determined climate
        controls on tundra biomes (Myers-Smith), continentally diverse fire-climate-savannah
        relationships (Lehmann) and quantified the surprising floristic turnover of dry forests
        (Dexter).
       Natural hazards and disaster risk reduction (RC2) we developed new methods using
        statistical tools for eruption forecasting using seismic data (Bell), and undertaking
        probabilistic volcanic hazard assessment in a way that accounts for, and quantifies,
        uncertainty (Calder). Using discrete element simulation, we improved the physical basis
        for evolving population dynamics of fractures in brittle porous media, explaining scaling
        relations used in seismic hazard calculation (Main).
       Improving our understanding and management of the marine environment (RC7). The
        ATLAS project transformed understanding of North Atlantic deep-sea biodiversity through
        the discovery/description of 30+ benthic communities and 12+ new species, and proved
        climate forcing is linked to a weakening of the Atlantic Meridional Overturning Circulation
        over the last ~150 years (Roberts).

 During the REF period, we made 12 appointments, of which four are specifically interdisciplinary
 and one is a CF. Cluster hires were made in Sustainable Landscapes & Forests and Disaster Risk
 Reduction (section 1b, 4 and 3 staff respectively); Non-clustered appointments include: Bendrey,
 Rubio-Campillo (Lecturers/Environmental Archaeology); Colesie (Lecturer/Plant Physiological
 Ecology); Staddon (Lecturer/Environment & Development); and Keane (CF/Senior Lecturer/
 Conservation interventions).




                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1d. Research Impact strategy
 Our Impact strategy aligns with the university strategy (e.g. REF5a section 2) and is rooted in our
 commitment to addressing real world challenges. We foster a proactive and supportive
 environment to deliver impact through a variety of fora and mechanisms: from working with grass-
 roots community groups (e.g. networks of community leaders in rural Guatemala and urban
 Ecuador) and relevant industries (e.g. Ecometrica, Space and satellites sector) through to
 influencing national or international government policy (e.g. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
 Change, IPCC). Our Impact strategy involves six actions, to:
        1. Build or extend stakeholder networks to identify and co-produce impact. We engage
           with a large and varied external network of stakeholders and end-users of research
           (section 4b), partners involved in our E3 and E4 Doctoral Training programmes (section
           2e) and our strategic leadership of the Scottish Centre for Carbon Capture and Storage
           (SCCS), ClimateXChange and the Edinburgh Centre for Carbon Innovation (ECCI).
        2. Identify and support the development of opportunities for impact, from initial early
           engagement and co-design of research to engaging with decision-makers or company
           spin-outs. We run impact workshops, provide impact and knowledge exchange support
           to academics writing grant applications and engaging with business and community
           groups to deliver impact. This significantly broadened the pool of staff engaged in
           impact activities (sections 1d(iii) and 4b).
        3. Support creativity and diversity in approaches to pathways to impact including
           knowledge exchange, outreach and media engagement (Section 4b(ii)).
        4. Support applications for seed funding, e.g. via UKRI Impact accelerator awards.
        5. Raise awareness of the value and benefits of Impact, e.g. celebrating success on our
           news feeds, during the annual Professional Development Review, and as an element
           in the portfolio of activity considered in the academic promotion process.
        6. Service on External Advisory boards (section 4d(ii)).

 Academic and Research staff are supported by:
     an Impact Co-ordinator (across all sectors, 0.8FTE)
     three Business Development Executives (for impact on industry and commerce, 3.0FTE)
     a High Schools Liaison associate (0.6 FTE) for outreach activities
     10.8FTE ECCI staff, working on allied externally funded projects, for mitigation of, and
       adaptation to, climate change (section 4a)


 (i) Relationship to REF Impact case studies
 Our Nine REF impact case studies (ICS) arise from strong thematic research programmes
 (section 1c) addressing our major research challenges. They have benefitted from continuity and
 long-term commitment in strategic policy and resource allocation, as well as increasing success
 in securing external large grants and investments over the last 20 years, and notably since 2014
 (section 3a):
    ICS1. Attributing observed climate change to inform the Paris agreement Hegerl is a long-term
    outcome of the major investment of the UoA in this research area over the last 20 years.




                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    ICS2. Carbon capture and storage and negative emission for UK net-zero emissions climate
    target delivery Haszeldine benefitted from long-term investment in decarbonisation and
    sustained engagement with stakeholders including the UK Government.
 Our investments in Earth Observation and the Centre for Forestry and Landscapes underpin:
    ICS3. Quantifying forest biomass change from space – benefitting local economies, supporting
    policy formation for sustainability, improving satellite observations and global modelling
    Williams.
    ICS4. Constraining future sea-level rise from ice-sheet melt to aid policy and planning
    Bingham, Gourmelen.
    ICS5. Supporting UN Paris Agreement commitments by estimating global terrestrial carbon
    fluxes from satellite data, Palmer.
 Our investments in the geography of health underpinned two case studies:
    ICS6. A new administrative data infrastructure for Scotland; transforming policy and practice
    Dibben (RC3 and section 1b for its agile COVID response).
    ICS7. Assessing the overprovision of alcohol and tobacco in Scotland: improving health
    outcomes and influencing policy, Pearce, Shortt.
 Our investments in natural hazards and risk are generating several ongoing and emerging
 programmes in disaster risk management, the most mature of which is:
    ICS8. Implementation of Operational Earthquake Forecasting Main, Naylor.
 Our support for creativity and diversity in approaches to pathways to impact (action 3) underpinned
 cultural impact in:
    ICS9. The Rise and Fall of the Dinosaurs Brusatte.


 (ii) Additional notable examples of impact and developing impact
 Actions 4-6 have been influential in generating a wider pool of staff actively engaged in impact,
 aided both by investment in new staff appointments (sections 1a, b) and successful engagement
 of existing staff.
 Much of our current challenge-led research is driven by the GCRF agenda and the UN sustainable
 development goals, supported by match-funding from the University. These co-produced projects
 (action 1) are designed to have tangible international impact on partner country development over
 project lifetimes that will mature in the next REF period. Notable examples are the Urban Disaster
 Risk Hub McCloskey (Section 1cES) and the Ixchel project on Multi-Hazards and Risk in
 Guatemala Calder, Cupples (sections 1cAG and 1cES and Fig 2 below).




                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




  Fig. 2 GCRF Ixchel: Multi-Hazards and Risk in Guatemala – Key interdisciplinary approaches


 Our thematic programme on Disasters and Risk delivered a new digital platform for 3D interactive
 volcanic hazard maps during the Fuego, Guatemala 2018 eruption, developed in collaboration
 with UK charity MapAction, and now taken up by six National Geological surveys, and applied to
 16 volcanoes globally Calder, Stuart, Cupples.
 Our strategy on maintaining and developing state of the art facilities (section 1a and 3b) led to
 Gilfillan providing critical evidence in a ~$1 million lawsuit, involving tracing of subsurface fluids
 using natural geochemical fingerprints to enable carbon storage and improving hydrocarbon field
 appraisal.
 Our investment in marine science and policy (Section 1b) has direct impact on North Sea oil and
 gas decommission policies, and provides guiding principles for sustainable seabed explorations
 and exploitation, supporting UN Sustainable Development Goal 14 Hennige.
 Our participation in the UK ecosystem services for poverty alleviation (ESPA) programme prior to
 2018 led to the launch of an online innovation hub (OPPLA) to share and access research outputs
 and examples of good practice to support land-use decision making Metzger.
 Our participation in the UN Economic Commission for Europe Convention on Long-Range
 Transboundary Air Pollution (action 1) contributed to International policy development and co-
 operation in air quality and health Doherty.
 Our staff launched five new spin-out companies (Carbo-Map Woodhouse; Carbogenics
 Masek; Earth Wave Gourmelen; Earth Blox Patenaude; Space Intelligence Mitchard) (action 2)
 currently employing 34 people. Three companies received external awards (section 4b(i)).


 1e. Research governance
 The Head of SoG has overall responsibility for research governance in the UoA, supported by the
 Directors of Research for SoG and HCA, a deputy Director of Research for SoG, an academic
 REF UOA coordinator, an Ethics and Integrity committee chair, a SoG Research Support
 Organisation (GSRO) of five professional services staff, and a full-time professional Health &
 Safety manager.



                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (i) Ethics and Integrity
 Our research spans a diversity of disciplines and analytical and methodological approaches,
 necessitating specialist ethical review which we provide through our Ethics & Integrity Committee.
 This committee is embedded in the university processes (see REF5a section 2h) and provides a
 timely and targeted review of ethics applications, ethics training to all UG, PGT and PGR students,
 and promotes a culture of ethics and integrity across all of our staff and students. Our UoA
 developed a unique authorship policy to promote best practice in co-authored papers
 (particularly involving students and collaborators). We run a monthly seminar series to promote
 shared learning around the negotiation of ethical challenges in our research, and, most recently,
 we have initiated a series of written reflections on what ethical research means to those across
 the UoA and how they maintain the integrity of their research. In line with the UoA’s extensive
 global and ODA-related research and leadership, our ethics and integrity team are leading debates
 and providing practical support to promote the highest ethical standards and equitable
 partnerships in such research endeavours e.g. the GCRF Urban Disasters Risk Hub, where
 safeguarding training for key staff was delivered by an external enabler. Working alongside UoE
 Research Office and Gender Equality Working Group (Cupples sits on this committee) this group
 helps to develop delivery strategy for GCRF in relation to safeguarding; monitoring, evaluation
 and learning, KE, research ethics and integrity approval processes with GCRF partners. The
 unique expertise of our committee chair (Staddon), who sits on the University’s Research Ethics
 and Integrity Review Group, has resulted in her participation in the GCRF-funded project Ethical
 Action in Global Research: A Toolkit.


 (ii) Creating an open research environment
 We have engendered a positive cultural shift to open access for outputs and data by
       Investing in professional administrative staff (1FTE) to assist researchers in ensuring,
        wherever possible, all outputs adhere to Open Access policy, regardless of inclusion in
        REF2021. Our overall Open Access compliance rate to March 2020 is 89.07%.
       Securing Gold open access for 198 articles at a total cost of £339K from funds provided
        by the RCUK-UKRI Open Access Fund since April 2016
       Encouraging staff to utilize systems supporting open research including ORCID, Pure,
        Research Explorer and using the Edinburgh Datashare repository as well as other national
        data centres to ensure data are open and available.
 1f. Future plans
 We foresee and are planning for major new opportunities to develop the following thematic areas:
 Data-driven innovation (see REF5a section 2b) by delivering new platforms, techniques and
 applications to analyse large Earth system data sets of varying size, and veracity, analysed over
 different timescales to reflect differences in the timing of relevant decision-making. Our global
 lead in Earth Observation, focussing on Space and Satellites and our broader ‘data driven
 innovation’ expertise, enabled by our role in the Edinburgh City Region Deal, will underpin an
 ambitious programme for wider applications in geosciences and human geography, and address
 aspects of all of our Research Challenges.
 Environmental health inequalities, by providing expanded longitudinal evidence for the relative
 effects of environmental, social and economic conditions vs medical and genetic factors that

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 influence health outcomes via analysis of secure digitised data types (with colleagues in the
 School of Medicine). We foresee a major appraisal of the effectiveness of the evidence-based
 COVID policy response in Scotland, and the development of a mature understanding to facilitate
 secure policy debate and the response to future pandemics.
 Disaster Risk and Resilience, by delivering success in the newly-established GCRF Urban
 Disasters Risk Hub and the Ixchel GCRF project, as well as other funded activities. We will lead
 research in natural hazards with a strong interdisciplinary element to improve the quantification,
 management and social justice aspects of societal risk, loss and recuperation. Our aim is to
 improve the lives of those most disadvantaged and exposed to multi-hazards and disasters in the
 global South by embedding DRR within human rights frameworks.
 Mitigation and adaptation to climate change (see the University ‘Societal and planetary
 sustainability’ theme REF5a section 2i) through our research in this field, and by maintaining
 strong connection to policy e.g. contributing to the IPCC and the UN Framework Convention on
 Climate Change. We will support global initiatives to mitigate the effects of climate change and to
 accelerate transition to a low-carbon economy, most immediately with a large UoA presence at
 COP26 in Glasgow, with new applications in agriculture through the GCRF South Asia Nitrogen
 Hub, and several initiatives in Geo-energy.



 2. People


 2a. Staffing strategy
 Our staffing strategy is centred on delivering world-class education, research and impact, and
 recognising the desirability of recruiting a variety of early career and more experienced staff in
 strategic areas while also maintaining a balance of both established and emerging thematic
 research programmes. We incentivise individuals to excel in their own research areas, and to
 engage, communicate or work beyond disciplinary boundaries in a fundamentally multi-disciplinary
 environment.
 Strategic research and interdisciplinarity: During the REF2021 period, we strengthened our
 strategic thematic areas (section 1b(i)) with 33 appointments, including six senior staff and five
 appointments that were specifically designed to be interdisciplinary. A further five tenure-track
 Chancellor’s Fellowships were appointed through a competitive University-wide scheme. Key
 interdisciplinary appointments showcase our engagement with a wide stakeholder base, e.g. with
 companies involved in satellite monitoring (Collins) and humanitarian organisations dealing with
 resilience to natural hazards (Crowley). Our growing strength in interdisciplinary research is
 exemplified by the nature of the funding awards we are securing (section 3a), the success of our
 PGR programmes which hold addressing interdisciplinary challenges as a core value (section 2e),
 and our REF2021 outputs (18% interdisciplinary).
 Attracting Independent Research Fellows: We initiated a bespoke system to attract and support
 new applicants for Independent Research Fellowships (IRFs) in 2015, which involves an internal
 champion to assist with the proposal development, an internal reviewer, and mock interviews. As
 in all our recruitment policies we particularly encourage female and BAME staff to apply, as well
 as those who prefer part-time or flexible working. As a result, during this period five new IRF-
 holders funded by NERC (four) and Royal Society of Edinburgh (one), joined our staff (section
 4e(i)) compared to 3 reported in REF2014.


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Working environment: An integrated system of measures, governance, academic and
 professional services staff support the wellbeing of all staff and research students. Numerous
 improvements since 2014 include: (i) Our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion co-ordinator and
 Athena SWAN co-ordinators sitting on all promotion panels and management committees, (ii)
 independent pastoral advisors assigned to each postgraduate research student for the period of
 their study, (iii) greater awareness and significant take up of flexible-working arrangements by
 male and female staff, (iv) all meetings arranged in core working hours, supporting engagement
 of those with caring responsibilities.
 Numerous additional support measures were implemented through the Covid-19 lockdown period
 to address personal issues, workload and stress. We discouraged meetings and non-essential
 messages during lunch hours and all day Fridays, and were successful in our bid to secure UKRI
 funding for extensions to research grants and to back-fill for losses incurred. Laboratories and
 facilities were maintained throughout lockdown and safe access restored with new working
 protocols as soon as public restrictions eased. Monthly virtual meetings provide an essential
 opportunity for all staff to connect with and gain support from colleagues.


 2b. Staff development and support
 Induction programmes: All academic staff, IRFs, Post-Doctoral Researchers and PhD students
 are provided with a comprehensive, tailored, induction programme. Through group and face-to-
 face meetings with senior staff, including the Director of Research, we discuss realistic and
 sustainable work-life balance, existing and cognate research activity, the potential for
 collaboration, innovation and impact, and where to seek support and advice. Staff are supported
 by their appointed induction ‘buddy’ and academic mentor, who may be external to the UoA via
 the University’s Mentoring Connections programme.
 Annual reviews: All staff, have annual personal development reviews (PDRs) with their line
 manager. Line managers attend mandatory training on undertaking effective PDRs. IRFs have a
 review at least one year before the end of their Fellowship, to assess progress, determine whether
 the Fellow’s skills, achievements and trajectories match the ambitions and opportunities for the
 School. As a result, the four externally funded fellows who completed their fellowship, as well as
 seven Chancellors Fellows all transferred to lecturer positions (see section 2c).
 Workload allocation: Our workload allocation model (reviewed with full consultation in 2018/19)
 is a decision-support tool for line managers who assign staff time to research, teaching and
 academic leadership/administration. There is a default minimum of 40% time pro rata for research
 time for academic staff, with additional allowances for fellowship awards and for managing
 research grants as Principal or Co-investigator through FEC. Workload allocation incorporates
 allowances for parental leave, part-time working, secondments and sabbatical cover. Newly
 appointed academic staff are provided with start-up funds, have reduced teaching and
 administrative duties in their first year and have preferential access to PhD studentships. We offer
 one semester of sabbatical leave for every seven semesters of service, subject to approval of a
 proposal submitted in the year prior, with an average of 12 staff taking sabbatical leave annually.
 Professional Development: All staff are encouraged to participate in professional development
 opportunities offered by the UoA, the UoE Institute for Academic Development (IAD), and external
 agencies including UKRI. These include courses and training opportunities on managing research
 staff and budgets, PhD student supervision, outreach, and media communications. The UoA offers
 dedicated courses in:

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (i) Research Excellence: Some 86 academic and research staff have participated in our Research
 Excellence Workshops, which provide a forum for grassroots discussion on what constitutes
 research excellence and how this is achieved. We also run frequent and regular, supportive and
 informal, peer-to-peer events such as: Pitch-to-your-Peers where early-stage ideas and proposals
 are presented and discussed in a rigorous, but constructive manner; Writing retreats to afford staff
 time and space to concentrate on crafting proposals or writing papers; and Good Research:
 Sharing Experience to discuss a range of ethical concerns and share experiences with academic
 and research staff, and doctoral students.
 (ii) Leadership/management: The UoA runs a senior leadership course with an experienced
 external facilitator that has been attended by all current leaders, followed by group workshops on
 dedicated topics. 41% of all female staff have attended the course, supporting and increasing the
 pool for greater diversity in future appointments at senior level. The UoA also supported two female
 staff members to attend the HE Aurora programme, and eight staff attended the EQUATE
 ‘Coaching for Success’ scheme.
 Promotion process: The UoA runs a two-stage, open, promotions process where all staff are
 eligible annually, and candidates are identified using a consistent set of criteria. As a consequence
 of our Athena SWAN action plan, the promotions panel is (i) gender-balanced, with representation
 from broad disciplinary areas, (ii) includes the chairs of both the Athena SWAN and Equality and
 Diversity committees, and (iii) includes discussion and consideration of a two-page, annually
 updated CV. The panel then invites cases with potential to be promoted to submit a full CV, with
 specific feedback and guidance to staff prior to submission of their formal promotion application.
 Unsuccessful colleagues receive written and face-to-face feedback from their line manager.


 2c. Early-career researchers (ECRs)
 Attracting ECRs: The UoA has an active programme of attracting, engaging with and supporting
 a growing cohort of early-career researchers, currently including 103 fixed-term Research
 Associates funded by the significant increases in income since August 2013 (section 3a). The
 improved support for applicants for IRFs, as well as the development of a more robust proposal
 feedback and reviewing system, has led to five IRF successes in the reporting period (section 2a).
 Retention and support for ECRs: We converted four of our IRFs into open ended contracts
 (Henley, Hennige, Kalnins, Street), enabled promotion of three fixed term Research Associates
 to grade 8, one of whom went on to competitively secure Chancellors Fellowships (Edlmann),
 and converted seven Chancellors Fellows (Bell, Brusatte, Gilfillan, Hein, Henry, Keane, Myers-
 Smith) to open-ended academic contacts. These staff represent a major investment in the future
 vibrancy of the UoA.
 Career Development support: Our ECRs have benefited from a number of structures and
 processes including: the induction and mentoring programme (section 2b); proposal development
 and independent internal review, mock interviews enabled by the UoA and/or the University
 Research Support Organisations; research support and training systems by UoA Research
 Support Organisation (section 2b); and internal seed funding/small grant opportunities (section
 3b). This has led to significant subsequent success in grant applications for IRFs and Chancellor’s
 Fellows. We regularly host events on Career Paths in Academia to highlight the various routes to
 permanent positions in academia, with a focus on the critical steps from Research Associate to
 Independent Research Fellow, and to a lectureship.


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 2d. Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 The UoA has a strong commitment to enabling, and actively constructing, a diverse and inclusive
 workplace, including the transparent promotion process (section 2b) and in this REF submission.
 The UoA’s demographic composition is 69% men, 31% women, with 3% BAME staff, ~1% staff
 with reported disabilities and ~1% staff disclosed LGBTQ+. The values have been stable
 throughout the REF period. Fewer than 20% of the professoriate are women, but since 2015/2016
 the percentage of grade 10 promotions awarded to women has exceeded the proportion of women
 in the UoA.
 The UoA REF2 output profile has 72% outputs proposed by male (for 69% of staff), and 28%
 proposed by female authors (for 31% of staff). Viewed within each research theme, these outputs
 are in line with our staff demographics (Fig. 3).




           Fig. 3 Pie chart for REF2 output profile by research theme – and bar graph
           showing breakdown for research theme and gender.



 We were awarded Athena SWAN (AS) awards for both SoG (Silver/Bronze) and HCA (Bronze).
 Numerous measures have been implemented across the UoA as part of ongoing EDI and AS
 action plans; including mandatory Equality and Diversity online training for all staff, and aspiring
 to gender balance on interview and promotions panels. This has had a tangible effect; whilst we
 continue to attract higher proportions of male applicants (65-70%), female appointments range
 from 41-52% since 2014 and there has been a significant and systematic increase in the proportion
 of research active female staff at lecturer grade (29% in 2014 to 42% in 2019). The proportion of
 successful external funding applications from women has also risen from 15%/annum in 2014 to
 43% in 2019, greater than the proportion of current female staff in the UoA.
 Separate Equality, Diversity and Inclusion and Athena SWAN conveners ensure equality and
 diversity are embedded and evaluated in all processes. Enhancement activities, including
 unconscious bias training have improved gender and race balance in all recruitment processes,
 professional development reviews, grant and fellowship proposals and promotion rates. A
 workshop with six inspirational external speakers in April 2019 kick-started a fresh EDI strategy,
 in particular to improve BAME recruitment and retention. This is now embedded in an action plan
 to promote diversity including aspects that go beyond the institutional procedures (REF5a). The
 action plan includes: (i) mandatory unconscious bias training workshops for those on appointment

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and promotion panels; (ii) improving staff and PhD recruitment materials and processes to
 increase demographic diversity (careful drafting of advertisements; selective targeting of
 candidates); (iii) diversifying the demographic profile of invited seminar speakers in the School;
 (iv) establishing multiple points of contact, and clear management processes, for bullying and
 harassment complaints, and (v) running bi-monthly EDI forums to sustain dialogue and reflection
 on EDI concerns and activities. We also have a strong cohort of scholars working with critical
 race, feminist and decolonial theory who influence our debates on diversity through their own
 research, and who play key roles in university Race-Ed and Gender-Ed initiatives.


 2e. Research students
 The School hosts a vibrant and diverse postgraduate body of over 240 students (Jul 2020),
 compared with 197 in 2014. Since REF2014 we graduated 52.5 students/annum, an increase from
 an average of 35.5/annum for REF2014. International students make up 49% of the PGR student
 population (40% of whom are from the EU) and 51% of the PGR students are women. These
 students span a wide range of disciplines, and are funded by four research councils and various
 governments, companies and charities. We lead NERC E3 and E4 Doctoral Training
 Partnerships (DTP), and the SENSE Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) in Satellite data in
 Environmental Science, all awarded via competitive bids evaluated on the basis of excellent
 postgraduate research training and management. E4 and SENSE encourage multidisciplinary
 approaches and collaboration featuring partners across academia, industry, and the third sector.
 Many features of the DTP programmes have now been rolled out across our postgraduate
 research training environment for all our students, as described below.
 Funding of PGR studentships: Our healthy funding streams ensure a vibrant and diverse student
 cohort and research programme. UKRI funds approximately a third of our students, mainly via
 NERC (103 students, including 5 funded through the National Productivity Investment Fund, 5
 SENSE half-funded by SoG, and 6 funded via other NERC research grants), while 18 are
 supported by ESRC, AHRC, EPSRC, MRC and STFC. The remaining 134 students are funded
 through: research grants (12); university scholarships (37 students including 9 partially);
 international governmental programmes (e.g. with China, Chile, Mexico, Oman, Kuwait – 27);
 European Union International Training Networks (~5); competitive scholarships (e.g. Carnegie
 Trust, Leverhulme Trust, and the Scottish Alliance for GeoSciences Environment and Society (~5);
 and industry or NGO partners (e.g. Ford, Quintessa, Scottish Forest Trust, DEFRA (~10). We also
 attract self-funded students who secure funds from a variety of sources (~35 including 12 MScR).
 We have more than 30 CASE studentships, partly funded by industry partners (e.g. Reykjavik
 Energy, Space Intelligence Ltd), including two EPSRC Industrial CASE partnerships, and two
 AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Partnerships.
 Doctoral Training Programmes: The SoG leads the Edinburgh Earth and Environment (E3) DTP
 and its successor the E4 DTP, both NERC-funded. Each host 18 PhD studentships per year at
 the University of Edinburgh prior to match funding, equating to an £16M investment from NERC
 over the lifetime of the two DTPs. The recent E4 DTP bid was ranked 2nd in the UK during the
 2018 competitive bid process and is now the joint largest NERC DTP as well as the largest
 geographically clustered DTP. Feedback from NERC noted that “the panel was particularly
 impressed with the provision for training, which highlighted many excellent aspects.” The SENSE
 CDT secured £2.2M from NERC and is co-directed with University of Leeds. In a further example
 of interdisciplinary engagement Pearce is director of the Scottish Graduate School of Social



                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Science (SGSSS), an ESRC-funded DTP administered by the University of Edinburgh School of
 Social and Political Sciences.
 Masters by Research programmes: Three MScR programmes, GeoSciences Individual Project,
 Palaeontology & Geobiology, and Human Geography combined with Integrated Masters degrees
 (MEarthSci/MEarthPhys) host around 34 students/annum.
 The postgraduate research (PGR) office: The PGR manager, the DTP and CDT manager and
 the PGR secretary provide administrative support from admission until graduation and the PGR
 team is the first point of call for any student concerns. The team develops a positive research
 culture by supporting student-led activities, organising an annual PGR conference, facilitating
 annual focus groups on PGR student experience, and maintaining an online PGR Student Hub
 that collates information. The team oversees progress monitoring, which comprises a formal
 confirmation process at the end of the first year, training needs analyses, and annual reviews in
 subsequent years.
 Recruitment and support: We recruit students from a wide range of backgrounds, and consider
 the balance of academic qualifications and professional experience. The student voice is enabled
 via the PGR student committee and representation on UoA committees for ethics, health and
 safety, diversity and inclusion, and the E4 DTP Student Advisory Panel. To ensure stability and
 involve new supervisors, each student has a minimum of two supervisors from the UoA or an
 associated institution. PhD supervisors undertake mandatory PhD supervision training at least
 once every 5 years. Each student also has an independent academic Advisor who chairs progress
 and monitoring events, and can act as a potential intermediary between the student and supervisor
 if problems arise.
 Highlights of our PGR training programme: We train graduate students for diverse futures,
 ensuring they are equipped to think critically, holistically and independently, and to communicate
 their work professionally. Our breadth allows our students to benefit from a wealth of internal and
 external training opportunities, organised across the DTP, CDT, ESRC-funded SGSSS, and
 AHRC-funded Scottish Graduate School for the Arts and Humanities programmes. Key hallmarks
 of our PGR training programme are:
    -   Support for interdisciplinary research and collaborative projects with Associated
        Institutes (including the Centre for Ecology and Hydrology, Scotland’s Rural College,
        British Geological Survey, and the National Library of Scotland) and international
        universities (including Aarhus, Leuven, McGill and Helsinki).
    -   Our signature annual PGR Conference, is a key training and cohort-building event
        attended by students, supervisors and partners which provides a celebration of the
        diversity of research carried out across the UoA.
    -   Industry engagement (e.g. through CASE studentships) and the DTP Professional
        Internship Programme (PIP) to provide our students experience in non-academic
        workplaces.
    -   Transferable skills training through IAD (including data management courses, writing
        retreats, and media training) and entrepreneurship, innovation and impact training
        through the Edinburgh Centre for Carbon Innovation (ECCI).
    -   Workshops to prepare students for progression milestones including ‘Surviving the
        Confirmation Process’, ‘Presentation Skills’, ‘PhD Thesis workshop’ and ‘Viva Survivor’.



                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The training programme also benefits from a vibrant culture of student-led initiatives including:
    -   The ‘GradSchool’ which organises regular social activities to support the PGR community,
        but also supports skills development and peer-feedback opportunities through monthly
        GradTalks where students present work and practice conference talks, and an annual 2-
        day conference with poster presentations, talks, and a ceilidh dinner.
    -   The Coding Club, attracted funding from the Data Lab, Scotland’s innovation centre for
        data and AI, to produce an innovative GitHub based ‘Data Science for Ecologists and
        Environmental Scientists’ course which has recorded over 600,000 views and 130,000
        hours of online coding practice.
 Excellence in PGR research: As evidence of the excellent PGR research environment:
    -   our students publish first-author papers in internationally leading journals such as Nature
        (e.g., Dingle 2017; Tedstone 2015), Science (e.g., Clarkson 2015; Daskalova, 2020), and
        PNAS (e.g., Schwab 2020; Baynes 2015).
    -   student presentation awards at International conferences, including Singh (Society of
        Exploration Geoscientists, 2018), Clement (European Seismological Commission, 2018)
        and Daskalova (British Ecological Society, 2019).
    -   prestigious scholarship winners including the British Spanish Society Scholarship (Garcia
        Criado, 2020) and the IJURR writing grant (Acharya, 2019).
 Research and employment preparation: While some PGR students pursue a career in
 academia, we recognise that the majority will choose other career paths. We ensure that students
 gain transferrable skills for wider career paths by working with our alumni, the IAD and the Careers
 Service. This includes a bi-annual non-academic careers event combining networking training with
 a series of talks from alumni who work outside academia. The ECCI run events twice a year that
 enable businesses in low carbon technology to network with students, which can be followed up
 by business placements. In 2018/19 NERC provided £61K from the National Productivity
 Investment Fund for student placements, and our DTP students all have the opportunity to
 undertake a 3-month placement in a non-academic setting through our PIP scheme.
 Our exit surveys consistently show that over 90% of our graduates are in Highly Skilled
 Employment or Further Study (HSEFS) 6 months after graduation. Our graduates go on to
 significant success, with diverse careers in industry, government, international academia, global
 consulting, amongst others.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 3a. Research income and expenditure
 A key goal of our strategy and thematic programmes (sections 1b and 1c) has been to nurture a
 vibrant culture of interdisciplinary research through expanding our staff cohort (from 104 for
 REF2014 to 126 for REF2021) and external funding. Through a series of support measures
 (detailed in sections 2 and 3b), we have won a total of £138.6M in research grants and contract
 awards from 98 different funding sources since August 2013, or £1.12M per FTE for this
 submission. Annual UoA awards averaged £19.8M/annum cf £13.3M/annum for REF2014, and
 annual income per FTE also increased from £128K to £160K. UoA expenditure/recovered income
 over the REF period is £113.2M, including overhead of £31.5M, and lags awards.

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our success in winning awards is a key performance indicator from our research strategy,
 notably the conscious and successful development of a thriving and vibrant culture of
 multi- and inter-disciplinary research, the thematic research programmes, key
 appointments (section 1) and the support and training environment (section 2). This has led
 to our being awarded a total of £29.6M for awards compatible with Official Development
 Assistance (ODA) goals (including GCRF and the Newton Fund), almost a quarter of our total.


 We received 20 awards of over £1M in value during the REF period, including eight over £2M:
 -   £20.1M for the GCRF Urban Disasters Risk Hub, McCloskey
 -   £7.87M for the Scottish Government Centre of Expertise on Climate (CXC), Kerr/Reay
 -   £6.07M for the ESRC Administrative Data Research Centre Scotland, Dibben
 -   £3.37M for the extension of ESRC Administrative Data Research Centre Scotland, Dibben
 -   £3.19M for the GCRF Multi-hazards and Risk – Ixchel, Calder, Cupples.
 -   £2.90M for the IMS 7f-Geo System for the NERC Ion Microprobe facility, Harley
 -   £2.85M for the GCRF South Asian Nitrogen Hub, Reay
 -   £2.55M for the ESRC Digitising Scotland project, Dibben


 Smaller awards, notably in the standard grant range, remain a significant engine for our research
 (Fig. 4).




  Fig. 4 Histogram of awards weighted by value. Count data is also shown for reference.




 Our major funding source continues to be NERC - £60.6M, with £17.1M from ESRC, £5.5M from
 EPSRC and £2.4M from BBSRC.




                                                                                          Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We won £17.4M in total funding from the EU, including two ERC starter grants (The Rise of
 Placental Mammals: Brusatte, Tropical Forest Degradation: Mitchard) and two ERC consolidator
 awards (Earth Core: Komabayashi, Ethnographic approaches to infrastructure development in
 South Asia: Ruwanpura) totalling £4.1M. Hegerl successfully completed her ERC advanced grant
 in 2017.
 £8.8M of our awards are for Data Driven Research in the Space and Satellites area, including
 £3.9M for 11 awards from the European Space Agency.
 We won £25.8M in awards for industry-sponsored research projects, business development and
 innovation activity, ~18% of our total research and innovation total, as follows:
 (i) The School operates the Edinburgh Centre for Carbon Innovation (ECCI) (see section 4a),
 which generated £12.5M of our awards, including £8.6M from CXC projects and £2.6M in separate
 awards as a Climate KIC project partner. ECCI generated a further £2.74M from innovation events,
 active low carbon small business incubator projects, and commercial activity related to carbon
 innovation. Overall, the total of £15.2M compares to a total ECCI spend of £15.6M, implying a cost
 recovery of 98% as a free-standing research and innovation centre.
 (ii) £10.3M of our awards come to the School from industry independent of ECCI, involving 20
 companies, or from schemes targeted to translate fundamental discoveries into applications,
 overwhelmingly in the field of Geo Energy (£10.1M), five of which exceed £1M:
    -   £3.24M for a cluster of projects in the International Centre for Carbonate Research
        (Petrobras and Shell), Wood.
    -   £1.78M for the Edinburgh Interferometry Project phases II and III (Schlumberger, Total,
        Statoil, BG Group and Conoco Phillips), Curtis
    -   £1.41M for HyStorPor - Hydrogen Storage in Porous Media (EPSRC), Haseldine
    -   £1.00M for the Forests 2020 project (UK Space Agency and Ecometrica), M. Williams
    -   £1.00M for a prosperity partnership in geothermal energy Smart Pumping for Subsurface
        Engineering (EPSRC and the Weir Group), McDermott.
 The value and diversity of our research award portfolio ensures we have a healthy funding base
 to support research and innovation success beyond REF2021.


 3b. Infrastructure and facilities supporting research and impact
 The UoA has an impressive range of supported laboratory facilities that provide an effective
 environment for delivering research excellence. We also operate field stations and associated
 facilities worldwide, enabling our researchers to lead and conduct research from the tropics to the
 poles. Our facilities were critical in generating £21.9M of research funding, and some 54% of
 current academic staff, 22% of research staff and 40% of PGR students depend on them.
 (i) Organisational Infrastructure and Support for Research and Impact
 All academic and research staff, and post-graduate students have access to our extensive
 laboratory, analytical and computational facilities described below. UoA researchers are supported
 by a team of 100 technical and professional services staff who provide research computing,
 laboratory support, small to large research facilities and services for safety, research
 administration, impact and public engagement; as well as being supported by University research
 services. All academic staff are allocated an annual baseline of funds (~£750) to enhance the

                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 quality of their teaching and in furtherance of their research. In addition, all academic/research
 staff can apply competitively to a bi-annual small grants fund for research activities such as
 conferences, grant proposal workshops, and participation in professional development courses.
 Facilities and Infrastructure are managed by the Academic Head of Facilities and the Head of
 Technical Services, in turn overseen by the SoG Facilities Committee, which comprises users at
 different career stages and facilities staff. The SoG sets aside an annual budget for research
 equipment, allocated competitively by the Facilities Committee. Its 2018 call (£162K) targeted
 early-career research staff, supporting independent fellows Hennige and Street. A further £448K
 has been invested in School social spaces to enhance PGR and researcher interaction, develop
 new collaborative research and impact activities.
 The SoG funds a general-purpose computing facility used by researchers and invests
 £22K/annum in the Edinburgh Compute and Data Facility (ECDF). 1.5 FTE of SoG IT staff and
 associated costs (£112K/annum) was dedicated to research computing in the REF2021 period for
 training and guidance to facilitate use of the SoG/University/UK facilities and to directly support
 funded research projects. Some £20K/annum has been disbursed since a new scheme was
 launched in 2015 to 28 users of 13 of the 16 Small Research Facilities listed below, for pump-
 priming work.


 (ii) Physical Infrastructure and Facilities
 The Facilities and Infrastructure team has delivered several major investments during the
 REF2021 period:
    -   £2.90M for the NERC Ion Microprobe Facility through purchase of the new 7f-Geo ion
        microprobe (Fig.5). In combination with the large-format ims1270 ion microprobe operating
        at the IMF, this provides high spatial resolution, high-precision multi-element and -isotope
        microanalysis capability unique in the UK, and world-leading internationally.
    -   £1.59M in our facilities estate, including new Changing Oceans, Palaeontology, Diamond
        Anvil and Geophysical Flow labs to support new research areas and activities (in turn
        bringing in £8.09M H2020, ERC, NERC and Leverhulme grants).
    -   £619K to set up the Brian Price ICP Facility for high-resolution ICP-MS and MC-ICP-
        MS, coupled to a seaFAST pre-concentration system and the NERC-funded laser ablation
        system (£182K).
    -   £347K in additional research and technical staff to support the development of the Brian
        Price ICP facility, to co-ordinate and support the School’s field equipment, and for
        succession planning.
    -   a further £1.33M in capital equipment, notably supporting the set-up of the unique
        GREAT Cell (£155K see later for detail) and replacement SEM (£442K) and IR-MS
        (£267K) instruments, heavily used by UoA researchers.




                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


                                                    Fig. 5 Installation of the Cameca 7f-Geo
                                                    SIMS instrument at the re-configured
                                                    Edinburgh NERC Ion Microprobe Facility,
                                                    November 2018. This instrument is now in full
                                                    routine operation for the benefit of UK NERC,
                                                    international and UoA users.




 We operate 16 Small Research Facilities (SRFs), run by 13.5 FTE research and technical staff,
 and 36 underpinning (multi-user) or user-specific research facilities. Collectively these account for
 some 30% of the SoG built environment (c. 2900 m2). The SRFs include sample preparation
 facilities, a high-specification mechanical workshop, a multi-purpose geochemistry facility, and X-
 ray analysis (XRF) and characterisation (XRD) laboratories. Our SRFs also include Airborne
 GeoSciences (light aircraft and UAVs supporting research in ecology, agricultural science,
 micrometeorology, forest science, geomorphology, archaeology and palaeontology), Organic
 Geochemistry, Stable Isotope Mass Spectrometry of H, O, C and N, ICP-MS, and a Cosmogenic
 Nuclide facility producing sample targets for measurement of cosmogenic isotopes (10Be, 26Al,
 36Cl) by accelerator mass spectrometry (AMS) and noble gas MS. We support and operate SRFs

 in high resolution micro-CT X-ray tomography, designed and built in-house and one of only a few
 instruments in the UK dedicated to in situ experimental work, Electron Microprobe analysis, FEG-
 SEM, Ion Microprobe microanalysis (non-NERC funded time), and a nationally-unique pilot
 pyrolysis facility in the UK Biochar Research Centre.
 All facilities charge reduced rates for UG and PGR student use.


 Selected highlights from UoA specialist research facilities during the REF2021 period
 The pilot pyrolysis facility of the UK Biochar Research Centre (UKBRC, Fig. 6a) enables
 pyrolysis of biomass at scale. It has produced a set of 12 research-grade biochars that are now
 used by over 100 research groups worldwide. This pilot plant is unique in the UK, being the only
 continuous biochar production research unit with high-level instrumentation, with no more than
 five comparable plants globally, none of which utilise our bespoke technology. The award-winning
 start-up company Carbogenics (section 1diii) was established to commercialise biochar-based
 products that increase the efficiency of anaerobic digestion.




                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




  Fig. 6a) Pilot Pyrolysis facility of the UKBRC        b) The ‘true triaxial’ GREAT cell (centre left),
  for generation of experimental biochar/               contained in the loading frame of the ‘Big Rig’
  fertiliser.


 The GREAT cell (Geo-Reservoir Experimental Analogue Technology; Fig 6b) is a transformative,
 globally-unique facility that creates a true triaxial, rotatable stress field, facilitates fluid flow through
 samples, and employs state of the art fibre optic strain and temperature sensing technology
 capable of thousands of measurements per hour McDermott. It has been the key to securing
 £1.5M of EU and Industry research funding. A second cell is under development at the University
 of Göttingen, Germany, generating a further €2.3M in collaborative EU funding.
 The ICP Mass Spectrometer Facility measures elemental concentrations and ratios of rare earth
 elements, radionuclides and redox sensitive metals in rocks, sediments, river, and seawater
 samples to reconstruct biogeochemical processes associated with anthropogenic forcing, climate-
 induced ocean deoxygenation and circulation variations, and elucidate ore-forming processes in
 magmatic systems. New methods, enabled by installation of SeaFAST instrumentation and
 achieved by only a few laboratories worldwide, have been developed to reconstruct dramatic
 variations in marine nutrient cycling induced by climate change Pichevin.
 The 'Terra-correlator', initiated by £298K NERC funding, is a computing facility for massive real-
 time data assimilation in environmental science, tuned for optimal performance in operations
 involving cross-correlation. These include seismic ambient noise interferometry for crustal
 tomography studies Curtis, coda wave interferometry for earthquake location Curtis, and particle
 tracking of local strain and fracture during deformation experiments imaged in a synchrotron
 Butler, Fusseis, Main.
 (iii) Contribution to UK National Capability
 The NERC Ion Microprobe Facility (IMF: 50% NERC-funded) enhanced its world-leading
 instrument capability through the installation of the new £290M (BEIS/NERC) Cameca 7f-Geo
 SIMS instrument in 2018-19, complementing its large-format ims1270 SIMS and replacing its
 ims4f ion microprobe. The latter, now supported entirely by the SoG, is dedicated to instrument-
 intensive research by early career researchers and training of the next generation of SIMS
 specialists. IMF microanalysis underpinned 163 research papers in the REF2021 period, of which
 35 were co-authored by IMF, and a further 20 involved other UoA authors Bromiley, Calder, De
 Hoog, Fitton, Harley, Hastie, Kirstein, Robertson, Talavera. Total citations attributable to the
 IMF since 1989 exceed 30,000; its ISI and Scopus h-indices are both 93. Some 20 international
 users from 14 countries accessed the IMF in the REF2021 period.
 The Edinburgh NERC Geophysical Equipment Facility (GEF:100% NERC-funded) was
 awarded £440K NERC capital equipment funding in 2019 to measure water and heat fluxes below
 ice sheets in order to improve predictions of sea level rise from climate warming. It supported 217
 research papers, including 10 with UoA co-authors. 19 equipment loans were made to UoA staff
 and 28 UoA staff and PGR students were trained during the REF2021 period.

                                                                                                     Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The NERC Field Spectroscopy Facility (100% NERC-funded, Fig. 7) was awarded £1.1M NERC
 capital equipment funding in 2019 for a UAV-mounted hyperspectral imager and an automated
 GHG monitoring network. During the REF2021 period it supported 76 research papers, including
 16 with SoG co-authors, and made 15 equipment loans to SoG researchers.




                                                         Fig. 7 Field demonstration of NERC
                                                         FSF equipment for training of PGR
                                                         students prior to field deployment




 (iv) External access to major national and international research facilities
 Our staff use the best available facilities nationally and internationally to generate high-quality
 research.
 Field stations and facilities worldwide: Our researchers work around the globe. In the Amazon
 the tropical forest drought experiment initiated by Meir has operated continuously since 2001 at
 the Ferreira Penna Scientific Research Station, it is the only such experiment to have run for
 over 5 years. This collaboration generated 40 UoA journal papers, and £1.05M research funding
 (NERC, EU, Meir). At the Smithsonian Tropical Research Station, Panama, Meir set up the
 world’s first tropical forest soil warming experiment, unique in warming the whole soil profile,
 leading to 4 UoA journal papers and £788K in research funding (NERC, EU). Micrometeorological,
 ecological, biogeochemical and climate change research was conducted by several SoG staff at
 Arctic research stations in Scandinavia, Greenland, Canada and USA, e.g. Myers-Smith.
 Use of Antarctic research stations and BAS support by Bingham and Henley (BAS Rothera)
 and Colesie (Base Juan Carlos Primero, Spanish station; Scott Base, New Zealand station)
 resulted in 21 papers by Bingham and primary input into the management plan for the Botany
 Bay Antarctic Special Protected Area (SPA 154). Within the UK, the UoA developed GHG
 monitoring at the Heathfield tall tower observatory (£199K NERC, 2017), contributing data to the
 BEIS-sponsored DECC network ‘Deriving Emissions linked to Climate Change’. This contribution
 will be enhanced by Arnold, Palmer and M. Williams through the DARE-UK NERC Highlight
 topic award (£771K) to study the UK’s greenhouse gas emissions.
 Laboratory and experimental facilities: Over 10 SoG researchers have been awarded
 synchrotron beamtime at facilities including the Diamond Light Source (UK), the European
 Synchrotron Radiation Facility (Grenoble, France), the Swiss Light Source (Villagen), DESY
 (Hamburg, Germany), and the Advanced Photon Source (APS, Chicago, USA). Supported by
 APS, Butler and Fusseis worked closely with our workshop and X-ray µCT scanning facility to
 design and construct a unique x-ray transparent experimental fluid-rock reaction cell for
 microtomography imaging. SoG researchers accessed and utilised the Scottish Universities
 Environmental Research Centre (SUERC) to produce 33 papers co-authored by 23 UoA

                                                                                            Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 academics during the REF2021 period. Collaboration with the SUERC Noble Gas Isotope and
 Stable Isotope Facilities resulted in 10 journal papers Gilfillan and £2.18M of research funding
 (Total, NERC, EPSRC, SFC). NERC-funded research to constrain predicted future sea-level rise
 due to melting of the West Antarctic Ice Sheet utilised the SoG Cosmogenic Nuclides laboratory
 and SUERC’s Accelerator Mass Spectrometry facilities, capitalising on field support from the
 British Antarctic Survey Hein.
 Ocean sciences infrastructure: SoG participation in the International Ocean Discovery
 Program (IODP, whose Forum is led by Kroon), and access to legacy materials and data from
 the Integrated Ocean Drilling Program and the Ocean Drilling Program (~£2M value), led to 28
 research publications Fitton, Jung, Kroon, Robertson, Thomas, Tudhope. Our research on
 Antarctic Ocean biogeochemistry Ganeshram, Henley and on deep-sea structural habitats
 including cold-water corals and sponges Hennige, Henry, Roberts, benefited from access to the
 UK research vessel fleet and its National Marine Facilities Sea Systems. This included work
 through the UK ocean acidification research programme to understand implications for cold-water
 corals, identify the drivers of change in deep-sea habitats, and inform national and international
 policy advances for global implementation of Marine Protected Areas and management of cold-
 water areas. SoG researcher ship time on the US Palmer Antarctica LTER project, and the
 GEOTRACES marine biogeochemical cycles of trace elements and their isotopes programme led
 to 14 journal papers Ganeshram, Henley, Pichevin. Three ocean landers and instrumentation
 (~£300K), donated by University of North Carolina Wilmington, were deployed in 2018-19 in the
 Davis Strait between Greenland and Baffin Island. These remain in Canada to support the £1.6M
 H2020 iAtlantic project, funded in 2019.
 Airborne facilities: NERC facilities for Airborne Atmospheric Measurements and Airborne
 Research (ARF), and NASA’s Airborne Science Program have been used in NERC-funded
 campaigns (£2.7M) Palmer, to quantify UK Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, measure vertical
 profiles of CH4 and CO2 over the Amazon to ground-truth satellite observations, sample CH4 over
 African wetlands, and fly a bespoke spectrometer for tropospheric and stratospheric GHG over
 the eastern Pacific.
 High-Performance Computing (HPC) facilities: Research performed by groups led by Curtis,
 Bollasina, Doherty, Goldberg, Gourmelen, Hegerl, Tett, and W. Williams involve large parallel
 computing jobs run on ARCHER and MONSOON (UK National Capability) supercomputers, and
 Curtis, Goldberg accesses CIRRUS for parallel jobs of size in between those suited to ECDF
 and ARCHER. The JASMIN computer (UK National Capability) is also extensively used by School
 researchers for analysis of large climate and earth observation data sets in the CEDA Archive
 (Bollasina, Doherty, Hegerl, Tett, M. Williams).


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4a. Arrangements and structures to support effective collaboration
 Collaborative and cross/inter-disciplinary working to address real-world problems (see section 1a)
 is a core component of our research strategy (see section 1b). We have advanced this
 substantially during the REF2021 period through:


 (i) Development of Interdisciplinary centres: The UoA has led or co-developed several
 interdisciplinary centres to boost collaborative work in research and innovation, including the
 Edinburgh Centre for Carbon Innovation (Executive Director Reay), the Centre for

                                                                                           Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sustainable Forests and Landscapes (Director Ghazoul, launched in 2018 by Fergus Ewing
 MSP, Cabinet Secretary for the Rural Economy), and the Centre for Science at Extreme
 Conditions (CSEC) a shared facility in the College of Science and Engineering spanning the
 study of extremophiles, to the nature of Earth’s core. All these centres are supported by staff
 appointments in the UoA. Two are hosted by the UoA:
 Edinburgh Centre for Carbon Innovation (ECCI) is Scotland's leading knowledge exchange
 hub on climate change. It works with national and global partners on mitigation and adaptation
 agendas, notably as the primary research-into-policy channel for the Scottish Government. In the
 REF2021 period its projects included Climate KIC (£1.9M) and ClimateXChange (£7.9M, section
 3a), providing decision-makers with the evidence base for future policy and funding priorities on
 climate change. ECCI also hosts the Sustainable Scotland Network, who work with local
 authorities and public bodies to inform de-carbonization strategies and the Scottish Centre for
 Carbon Capture and Storage, which has supported a major increase in activity related to former
 North Sea fields. ECCI provides advice and evidence to stakeholders on green recovery and
 climate change policy, including the UK Government, the Scottish Parliament, Scottish Water, the
 National Farmer’s Union Scotland, and Zero Waste Scotland, Reay. The Edinburgh Climate
 Commission (Van der Horst, Crowley), is coordinated by ECCI alongside City of Edinburgh
 Council to deliver de-carbonization and resilience in support of their objective to make the City
 carbon neutral by 2030.
 Our Centre for Sustainable Forests and Landscapes (CSFL) works with a wide range of
 partners to provide the critical interdisciplinary knowledge to deliver sustainable landscape
 management and policy development for forested landscape mosaics. It combines expertise from
 the public and private sectors, and across social and natural sciences. CSFL launched the £550K
 EU Climate-KIC project Landscapes as Carbon Sinks to support delivery of the Scottish
 Government’s net-zero carbon target by 2045 through land-based approaches. The FORLAND
 Restoration project develops platforms to integrate spatial data with local community priorities for
 land-use decision support, while other research projects address the political ecology of woodland
 expansion.


 (ii) Supporting new collaboration: We sought out and appointed interdisciplinary staff in areas
 where we see strategic opportunities for connecting and collaborating across research areas (see
 section 2a). We have engendered a culture of engaging early to codesign research with
 stakeholders, including partners, third sector and communities. These efforts are supported by a
 growing cohort of experienced and dedicated professional service staff and include a ring-fenced
 central University budget to organise and host meetings for co-producing research proposals and
 for in-project meetings between stakeholders and collaborating academic partners. These
 meetings have proven to be critical elements of our success in the larger GCRF applications with
 the global South (section 3a).


 4b. Collaboration beyond the Academy
 We engage in a number of ways with communities outside the University sector including those
 already mentioned in section 1(d). These include (i) engagement with private sector and (ii)
 engagement with other with key research users, beneficiaries and audiences including
 communities, civil society organizations, governments and policy-makers, and media.



                                                                                             Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (i) Engagement with Private Sector
 We collaborate with a range of industry partners, enabled by funding from at least 20 companies
 (section 3a). Our strategy for industry collaboration has a planned focus on two areas: Space
 and Satellites and Low Carbon Innovation, while developing a broader portfolio in Geo-Energy
 for low carbon solutions, such as low-enthalpy geothermal heat extraction, and supporting
 subsurface storage solutions to the hydrogen economy. Industry collaboration is supported from
 conception to delivery by our three business development executives and by Edinburgh
 Innovations Ltd – (EI Ltd) the University of Edinburgh's commercialisation service. We won
 £25.8M in awards for industry-sponsored research projects, business development and innovation
 activity, with a further £8.8M of our awards for Data Driven Research in the Space and Satellites
 area, including £3.9M for 11 awards from the European Space Agency (section 3a). EI Ltd report
 £3.91M income generated through external consultancy contracts won by UoA staff.
 UKRI Impact Accelerator Account funds: UKRI (NERC, STFC and EPSRC) provided £312K
 to promote industry collaboration by seed funding co-developed projects to pull through its science
 into the private sector, including with Ecometrica (two projects total £48K), Alba Orbital, Orbital
 Micro Systems (£20K), Edinburgh Group Build and Low Carbon Homes (£26K).
 Scottish Funding Council (SFC): The Scottish Funding Council awarded support for Edinburgh
 and Scotland’s participation in the Research England funded (£4.8M) SPRINT programme, under
 the Connecting Capability Fund, to leverage the UK Industrial Strategy (July 2018). A new three-
 year Business Development Executive was appointed, making Edinburgh a full partner in the
 SPRINT consortium programme with 5 UK universities supporting SMEs and exploiting
 technologies, data and expertise developed for space. The programme enables access to a UK-
 wide innovation ecosystem (research, facilities, IP, Skills, data and finance).
 UoA support for thematic programmes: A secondment to European Marine Energy Centre
 Ltd., by Watts contributed to data strategy development for a flexible-response integrated energy
 system (ReFLEX), embedded in the community and landscape of the Orkney Islands. Expert
 advice provided to Aquatera Ltd. (environmental consultancy SME) supported establishment of a
 £30M membership-based localised energy company increasing access to low carbon home
 energy assets, with planned worldwide replication sites.
 Spin-out Companies: Staff launched five new spin-out companies currently employing 34
 people. Three of these received external awards:
     Carbogenics Masek, 2015 uses biochar-based additives from disposable coffee cups to
       increase efficiency of anaerobic digestion. Won the Shell Springboard competition prize
       (£40K) from the Anaerobic Digestion Network/Scottish Enterprise (4 employees)
     Space Intelligence Mitchard, 2015 support the net zero transition by providing data for
       nature-based solutions (Fig. 8a). Won £60K from UK government to support peatland
       restoration and £100K from the Scottish Enterprise ‘AI for Good Challenge’. Voted 8th out
       of 50 top Scotland tech businesses (Business Cloud), 2020 (9 employees)
     Earth Blox Paternaude, 2020 provides a new interactive power tool for Earth observation
       data that avoids clients having to write code. Won top prize of £50K (Fig. 8b) plus £21K-
       worth of support from the Converge Challenge Awards for academic innovation and
       entrepreneurship (10 employees)




                                                                                            Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




  Fig. 8a) Space Intelligence provide data for   b) Earth Blox win the top 2020 Converge
  nature-based solutions                         Challenge Award.


 (ii). Engagement with key research users, beneficiaries and audiences
 Early engagement with stakeholders has been key to our success in developing, funding and
 delivering on collaborative research (section 4a) and impact (section 1dii and Impact Case
 Studies), of which we now present some exemplars:
 Engagement with Communities: Our work with communities is heavily, but not exclusively,
 focused on countries in the global South where we engage on topics related to disaster risk
 reduction, resource management and geographies of social disadvantage, including;
    -   Afro descendant communities in Colombia, and Central America working on advocacy and
        cultural production through URACCAN, Carabantú, Townbook Limón, and the Afro Voices
        Center of Nicaragua (AVOCENIC), Cupples
    -   Community-based conservation, resource management and ecosystem services with
        communities in Nepal, East Africa and Ecuador, Keane, Staddon, Fisher
    -   Work on housing and tenancy rights with housing activists in Edinburgh, London, Rome,
        Barcelona, Lisbon, Cape Town, Buenos Aires, and Santiago, Slater, Kallin


 Engagement with civil society organizations: Much of our work with NGOs and other
 organizations focusses on UKRI’s Global Challenges and contributes towards the United Nations
 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s). Exemplars include:
    -   Disaster risk reduction (seismic and volcanic risk) and social justice working with
        emergency response NGOs in more than seven countries across Europe, Asia, Africa, and
        Latin America, Bell, Calder, Cupples, Main, McCloskey, Naylor, Whaler.
    -   Flood risk and resilience working with NGOs in Nepal & India, Sinclair, Attal, Mudd
    -   Sustainable marine farming working with a charity in Madagascar, Tudhope, Wilson
    -   Quantifying forest carbon resources working with an NGO in Tanzania, Williams
    -   Ecosystem services working with NGOs in Mozambique Zimbabwe, Ryan, Patenaude.
    -   Public health in UK, working with Tobacco and Alcohol NGOs, Pearce, Shortt.




                                                                                         Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Engagement with Governments and Government Agencies: We directly engage with
 Government at Local and National level, and through Inter-Governmental Agencies such as the
 IPCC – Hegerl (see section 1d and her Impact Case study), Rounsevell, as lead author and
 member of the summary for policy makers writing team for the IPCC special report on Climate
 change and land, 2019, and Tett a review editor on the 5th IPCC Working Group 1 report, Oct
 2013. Other exemplars not reported in section 1d or in our Impact case studies include:
    -   Advice on volcanic hazards with Government institutions in Ecuador, Chile, Colombia,
        Peru, Guatemala, and the Caribbean, Calder, Bell
    -   Advice and evidence to Scottish Parliament, Scottish Government, Scottish Land
        Commission, Scottish Forestry, and Scottish Wildlife Trust on national forest strategy
        Ghazoul, role of woodlands Ghazoul, Yang, land use policy, Valluri-Nietsch, Metzger,
        and governance Metzger
    -   Engagement with SEPA to develop measures to reduce pollution of waters from
        historical mining sites 2017-18, Graham, Heal
    -   Advice to European Commission resulting in inclusion of CO2 transport in their €4.7Bn,
        Connecting Europe energy programme Haszeldine, Scott
    -   Disaster Risk Reduction in Tomorrow’s Cities, with local Government in Istanbul, Quito,
        Kathmandu and Nairobi, Bell, McCloskey, Main, Naylor
    -   Advice to the Scottish Government on Climate change and Rural Policy, Kerr, Reay
    -   Wood was appointed as Honorary Consul for Namibia as a consequence of her research
        work there.


 Engagement/co-production with media: We are frequently quoted in the media on emerging
 issues from climate change to dinosaurs and many staff are strongly media-engaged through UoE
 channels and UK-wide networks such as the science media centre. With respect to co-production
 of significant media initiatives:
    -   We collaborate in media production for, and with, Indigenous and Afrodescendant
        communities e.g. Canal 5, Noticias de Bluefields and TV7 in Nicaragua and Black Crab
        Studios and Teleislas, San Andrés and Providence, Colombia, Cupples.
    -   We are co-producing and have supported funding of a feature documentary film on the
        2018 eruption of Fuego volcano, Guatemala, Calder, Cupples.
    -   We support the science content in mainstream movies such as the Jurassic Park series
        Brusatte and documentaries such as Climategate (BBC4; Hegerl) or Chasing quakes
        (Terra Mater; Main, Naylor).


 Public Outreach: Since 2014 our UoA has undertaken 188 reported in-person public
 engagement events, involving at least 53 academics and reaching an estimated 37,650 people.
 We utilize a broad array of approaches and medias, aimed at engaging diverse national and
 international audiences. Our staff have published several acclaimed books aimed at the general
 reader as well as academic audiences:




                                                                                          Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                 Brusatte The rise and fall of the Dinosaurs;
                 MacDonald Escape from Earth - A Secret History of the Space Rocket;
                 Reay Climate-Smart Food;
                 Watts Energy at the End of the World.


 Our Cockburn Museum, with its collection of 130,000 geological specimens (Fig. 9) and historical
 objects reflects Edinburgh's prominent position in geological sciences since the time of James
 Hutton. The Museum facilitated over 5500 interactions with collection specimens through hosting
 visitors and offering mobile events at other venues such as local schools. We also supported the
 UoE Main Library in acquiring Charles Lyell’s 294 notebooks detailing his engagement with
 scientific and social issues, field notes, and travel accounts.




            Fig. 9 Cockburn Museum; (left) display of modern corals and fossil fish
            with artwork by artist in residence Hannah Imlach, and (right) Edinburgh
            College of art students working with museum specimens.


 In 2016 the Edinburgh International Festival included a Deep Time light show (Fig. 10), projected
 on the castle and set to music. This was the biggest outdoor, ticketed, multi-media show of its kind
 ever to be held in the UK. It offered a spectacular and engaging platform to share world-class
 research from Edinburgh staff and students including Sinclair, and engaged with an audience of
 27,000 people in Edinburgh and approximately 133,000 online.




      Fig. 10 International Festival Deep Time show, with ichthyosaur (left) and lava flow (right)
      projected on Edinburgh castle.




                                                                                             Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4c. Contributions to the sustainability of the discipline
 We significantly strengthened our disciplinary foundation and ensured its application to
 increasingly cross-and inter-disciplinary challenges. Specifically, we have:
   -   made 38 new appointments in the UoA (listed in section 1c), nine of which were
       interdisciplinary
   -   maintained the vibrancy and excellence of our underpinning research facilities (section 3b)
       including many provided as a service to the broader UK community.
   -   improved grant support for research and innovation (section 3a).
   -   responded to the challenges of evolving national priorities & initiatives, notably the
       emergence of the GCRF and other ODA-compatible agendas (section 3a) and Impact
       related to the UN Sustainable Development goals more widely (section 1dii).
   -   led major international and national research consortia, including Kroon: Chair the
       International Ocean Discovery Program (IODP) Forum, Roberts: PI of international H2020
       ATLAS and iAtlantic projects, in addition to the GCRF success (section 3a).
   -   developed capacity for an agile response to a rapidly-evolving research agenda, for
       example securing three NERC Urgent awards, and supporting the Scottish Government
       directly in its response to COVID-19 pandemic.
   -   developed international research collaborations with global reach, an exemplar of which is
       the GCRF Urban Disaster Risk Hub, Tomorrows Cities (Fig. 11).




  Fig. 11 The UoA leads a collective effort by 11 UK universities, and partners around the globe.




                                                                                           Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4d. Contributions to, and recognition by, the research base within the REF period
 Our intellectual contribution to the research base is exemplified through the following esteem
 indicators (i) and leadership roles (ii):


 (i) Honours, fellowships and other awards
 Fellowship Elections: Hegerl: Fellowships of the Royal Society, the Leopoldina (German
 National Academy), the American Geophysical Union and the American Meteorological Society.
 Cupples: Fellowship of the New Zealand Geographical Society. Meir: Australian Research
 Council Professorial Research Fellowship, Mudd, Nienow, Tudhope: Fellowships of the Royal
 Society of Edinburgh (RSE). At an earlier career stage Brusatte and Saunders were elected
 Members of the RSE’s Young Academy of Scotland.
 Medals: Brusatte: Makdougall Brisbane Medal of the RSE for early career achievement in
 physical sciences. Harley: Schlumberger Medal, Mineralogical Society. Hein: W. S. Bruce Medal,
 Royal Scottish Geographical Society. Main: Néel Medal in Rock Physics, European Union of
 Geosciences. Mudd: Gordon Warwick Medal, British Society for Geomorphology. Nienow: The
 Polar Medal – the 5th member of UoA staff and precursor departments to have this award from the
 UK Sovereign. Reay: President’s medal, Royal Scottish Geographical Society. Robertson:
 Dewey Medal, Geological Society. Whaler, Clough Medal, the Edinburgh Geological Society,
 Williams: Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Award. Wood: Johannes Walther Medal,
 International Association of Sedimentologists and the Lyell Medal, Geological Society.
 Awards: Brusatte: Clough Memorial Award, Edinburgh Geological Society, Palaeontological
 Association Hodson Award. Creswell: Finesterra Annual Lecture, University of Lisbon. Curtis:
 Reginald Fessenden Award, Society of Exploration Geophysicists. Hegerl: honorary degree from
 the University of Leeds. Hinton: Geological Society's Distinguished Service Award. Main: Ed
 Lorenz Lecture in Non-linear Geophysics, American Geophysical Union. Myers-Smith: Early
 Career Award, Canadian Society for Ecology and Evolution. Slater: David M Smith Lecture,
 University of London. Wood: Enhance Award, Association for Women Geoscientists. Whaler: The
 RAS Award for services to Geophysics and Officer of the Most Excellent Order of the British
 Empire (OBE). Withers: Geographer Royal for Scotland.
 National Prizes: Brusatte: The Philip Leverhulme Prize. Hegerl: Hans Sigrist Prize, University
 of Bern. Watts: Winner of Cultural Innovation International Prize 2017, awarded by CCCB art
 gallery, Barcelona, for joint design-industry-community initiative with Community Energy Scotland.

 Externally-funded Fellowships: We secured four ERC Fellowships (section 3a); 2 new NERC
 Independent Research Fellowships (Street, Slater); and 1 Royal Society of Edinburgh
 Research Fellowship Kalnins. Other early-career Fellowships include Henley: The Woodward
 Fellowship, UK's Challenger Society for Marine Science, Myers-Smith: The Walters Kundert
 Fellowship, Royal Geographical Society and Colesie: Feodor Lynen Research Fellowship,
 Alexander von Humboldt.


 (ii) Leadership and Membership of International/National Committees
 Advisory board membership: Five staff serve on International boards/panels and 12 on National
 ones, including four who serve on UKRI advisory boards, and one who is early career Srinivasan.



                                                                                           Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 International
       Calder: Member, UK Foreign Office Scientific Advisory Committee for Montserrat; Expert
        Witness, Government of New Zealand Inquiry into White Island Eruption Disaster
       Haseldine: Zero Emissions Platform: European industry and research advisory body to
        EU Commission
       Roberts: Member, Expert Panel United Nations Regular Process for Global Reporting and
        Assessment of the State of the Marine Environment
       Srinivasan: South Asia Advisor and Member, Board of Directors for US-based NGO, Farm
        Forward. Advisor to the Federation of Indian Animal Protection Organisations
 National
       Dibben: Member, Scottish Advisory Group on Evidence for Policy Making
       Ghazoul: Member Expert Committee on Forest Science for Forest Research, the UK's
        national forest research provider
       Harley: Member, UK Committee on Radioactive Waste Management; the Advisory group
        to the Scottish Environmental Protection Agency.
       Haszeldine: Member, Science Advisory Council - EPSRC Energy Programme; Carbon
        Capture and Storage: Ministerial Council; Government CCUS advisory group, Scotland
       Hegerl: Member (2009-2014), then Chair (2014-2016) of the Science Review Group of the
        UK Met Office Hadley Centre.
       Main: Member, UK Office for Nuclear Regulation Expert panel on external hazards
       Pearce: Member, Advisory Group, Tobacco pricing and availability, NHS Scotland.
       Reay: Member, Scottish Government Sustainable Renewal Advisory Group, Academic
        Advisory Panel on Rural Policy. Both report directly to the relevant Cabinet Secretary
       Shortt: Member, Scottish Government/NHS Scotland Advisory Board on Minimum Unit
        Price Evaluation; NHS Project Advisory Board on Price and Availability of Tobacco.
       Tett: Member, NERC Strategic Programme Advisory Group
       Whaler: Member, NERC Training Advisory Board; Advisory Committee for Earth
        Observation of ESA
       Williams: Member, NERC Science Board
 Professional body senior leadership roles:
       Bingham: President, International Glaciological Society, British Branch; Member, UK
        National Committee of Antarctic Research
       Calder: International Association of Volcanology and Chemistry of the Earth’s Interior,
        Executive Committee elected member 2015-2019
       Heal: President, International Commission on Water Quality
       Mudd: President, British Geomorphology Society
       Whaler: President, International Association of Geomagnetism and Aeronomy; Vice-
        President, International Union of Geodesy and Geophysics (nominated by UK National
        Committee)
       Ziolkowski: Vice president (Geophysics), Royal Astronomical Society



                                                                                        Page 32
