Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of West London
 Unit of Assessment: 34 Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and
 Information Management
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context
 The University of West London (UWL) offers a broad range of courses; structurally it is divided
 into six Schools and three Colleges, each led by a Dean or Head of School. UoA34 is firmly
 embedded in the London School of Film, Media and Design (LSFMD) which - established in 2015
 as part of a restructure - retains a small fraction of staff (Dowd; Strong) from the former Ealing
 School of Art, Design and Media who were submitted in 2014 under UoA36. The restructure was
 intended to consolidate and grow research capacity; our research agenda is therefore framed by
 the decisive emphasis on research in the University’s strategic plans (Ambition 2013-2018;
 Achievement 2019-2023).
 Over the present REF period, the unit has concentrated on growth and diversification. Retaining
 the film and screen studies strand embodied in the REF2014 submission, it now also includes
 work in new media, photography, race studies, and the crisis of work, with emerging research on
 technology, embodiment and the post-human; and in art markets, branding, and linguistics.

 1.2 Structure
 The unit comprises ten members of staff (9.5 FTE). The underpinning theoretical paradigms which
 have been a hallmark of the unit over two decades remain - contemporary and continental
 philosophy, critical theory, feminist theory, and cultural politics. The environment is dynamic and
 fluid in terms of groupings, within a number of strands. These strands are crosscut by the
 interdisciplinary research centre PRISM (Policy and Practice Research in Screen and Music),
 established under the leadership of Caston, appointed at UWL in May 2017. At the core of the
 research centre, the Hidden Screen Industries Research Group (led by Caston and supported by
 external funding) stimulates and disseminates research into those sectors of screen industry
 content production which have been overlooked in mainstream film and television studies (e.g. TV
 and cinema commercials, branded content, fashion films). PRISM serves as a hub for the School’s
 two research groups initially established within the unit in 2015. Thinking the Image (first under
 Henning – who left UWL in September 2019 - and Dowd; now under Dowd and Mikuriya) focuses
 on the theoretical tools and philosophical basis for analysing the image in the twenty-first century,
 while the Gender, Technology and Work Research Group (led by Hester) focuses on the crucial
 area of overlap between the areas named in its title.
 Research in the intertwining strands of film, screen, genre and adaptation has developed from
 the core established in REF 2014, while adding diversity and sustainability. The unit has made
 massive strides, producing monographs and edited volumes in film studies (Nardelli), Bruno
 Munari (Nardelli), pornography (Hester), disability (Brylla who left UWL in November 2019), James
 Bond (Strong), televised sport (Milne who left UWL in 2018), music video (Caston) and genre
 studies (Dowd). Dowd and Strong built on RAE 2008 and REF 2014 with outputs on Deleuze
 (Dowd) and adaptation studies (Strong). Strong expands research in the field with articles on
 adaptation and history, and on the recurring character. Dowd’s co-edited volume Genre
 Trajectories (2015) added to a volume co-edited by him and Strong in 2007 which featured in REF
 2008, thereby sustaining another tradition in the unit and its precursors at UWL (Caston’s 2020
 book also addresses genre). Strong’s edited collection James Bond Uncovered (2018) pays
 particular attention to questions of adaptation in the context of Bond’s transit across multiple media
 forms.


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The well-established affinities between film/screen studies and broader visual cultures have
 been underpinned both in the formation of the hub that is PRISM and in the Thinking the Image
 research group where the research in photography and cinema gave rise to monographs by
 Henning (Photography: The Unfettered Image) and Mikuriya (A History of Light: the Idea of
 Photography), which stood alongside Nardelli’s monograph Antonioni and the Aesthetics of
 Impurity: Remaking the Image in the 1960s (2020). Henning’s research on Ilford Limited and its
 subsidiaries in the war/interwar period has brought to light archival materials and little-read texts
 that reveal the emergence and development of key photographic terms and concepts, such as the
 death mask analogy in photography theory and photographically dependent ways of
 conceptualizing climates and places.
 A strong feature of the profile of the unit as it stood at census date, is the creative industries
 strand that emerged as a result of appointments which saw the work of Caston on music videos
 as a ‘hidden screen industry’ (50 years of British Music Video [2018]; British Music Videos 1966 –
 2016: Genre, Authenticity and Art [2020]) augment this profile through the combined research of
 Lelis (branding), Milne (televised sport) and Robson (art markets; modernism). The cultural-
 institution and industry-facing and research-led engagements of Nardelli (BFI) and Henning (Ilford
 Archives) further contribute to this strand.
 Several of the unit members have backgrounds in art history (and theory), which can be seen in
 several outputs by Mikuriya, Henning and Robson – all of which serve to enhance the range and
 reach of the unit beyond its compact focus in 2014. In addition to her research specialism in
 cinema, Nardelli also works extensively on the Italian artist, designer and inventor Bruno Munari
 (2017 edited collection) and contemporary art (essays on land art and moving-image gallery
 installations). The recent research of Hester has had its principal dissemination conduits in art
 institutions and galleries (as outlined in section 4); her work with the art collective Laboria Cuboniks
 (which ultimately gave rise to Hester’s Xenofeminism) serves to consolidate this strand.
 Hester, who joined UWL as a junior academic in 2015, represents a notable expansion in range.
 Grounded in Cultural Studies paradigms and methodologies, Hester’s work has retained its
 strong interdisciplinary dimension, but now reaches well beyond the initial research foundations.
 Recent research sets out an approach to connections between contemporary technologies and
 gendered forms of labour, particularly those associated with biological procreation and social
 reproduction. Although interdisciplinary in scope, both strands of this research share a cultural
 studies perspective grounded in a materialist feminist tradition.
 Henry’s work in linguistic expression in ‘deejay’ culture is directed by sociological and cultural
 studies perspectives, while Magne sets out to challenge the monolingual bias inherent in the
 native and non-native speaker distinction.

 1.3 Research and impact objectives since 2015
 The main research objectives identified in 2015 linked to the University’s strategy (see institutional
 statement, section 2.1) and were to:
        1. Build capacity in research and foster interdisciplinary research.
        2. Enhance the research culture within the unit and the School.
        3. Improve its engagement with the wider world through academic collaborations, and
           industry engagement.
        4. Develop new impact sites.
 Build capacity for research and foster interdisciplinarity
 This unit has grown in size significantly over the period, from 2.6 FTEs in 2014 to a 9.5 FTE in
 REF2021. Of these four are Professors, one is Associate Professor and five are Senior Lecturers,
 six of the total having been appointed post-2014. The substantial gains made in terms of growth

                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and diversification are reflected in the fact that members of staff belonging to the unit published 6
 monographs, 5 edited books and 2 special journal issues in addition to 20 book chapters and 20
 peer-refereed journal articles, and delivered approximately 80 conference papers over the
 assessed period.
 We have also ensured the sustainability of this expansion by increasing in the same proportion
 the volume of doctoral students and by nurturing junior researchers through mentoring and access
 to the research forums we have developed in the School, abetted by progressive induction into
 supervision experience for junior researchers (see section 2). The unit adopts an interdisciplinary
 ethos reflective of the diversity of subject areas in LSFMD, and we have also supported successful
 PhDs in the areas of hospitality, health, sociology and music. It is expected that these
 collaborations will result in strengthening interdisciplinarity in the future, not least through
 engagement with colleagues in music through PRISM.
 Enhance the research culture within the unit and the School
 With its focus on the creative industries, PRISM has been central to increasing visibility for our
 research areas. Twenty+ members strong, PRISM is interdisciplinary, and acts as a research hub
 for members of both UoA33 and UoA34. It has used its status as operating from the very same
 site as the old Ealing School of Art, and its famous creative alumni (Tony Palmer, Freddie Mercury,
 Ronnie Wood, Pete Townsend), to bring together research that focuses on music, film and
 television. The unit has engaged with research communities both inside and outside of UWL; and
 has significantly enhanced its support for its growing doctoral community (see section 2).
 Improve engagement with the wider world
 Over the period, unit members have organised five conferences; five symposia (with visiting
 keynote speakers) and twenty-five seminars at UWL. They have also organised external symposia
 or other research events at institutions including Tate Britain, the Institute of Contemporary Arts,
 UCL, University of Birmingham, Senate House.
 The School has supported the UoA’s engagement with industry (as detailed further in section 4),
 through visiting professorships for industry figures, public lectures within the University’s series,
 and public networking events at UWL. Examples of the latter include The Branding Conference
 (Lelis), Brand New Day (an industry event organised by Lelis, 2019), Power Panel: Celebrating
 Inspirational People in the VFX and Creative Industries (2018) and the History of Advertising Trust
 (organised by Caston, 2019).
 The unit was able to reach out to the secondary education sector through the donation (by PRISM)
 of approximately 1,000 copies of the Power to the People: Fifty Years of British Music Video DVD
 box-set free of charge to education charity the English and Media Centre for students and teachers
 on the GCSE and A Level Media Studies (in each, music video is a core part of the curriculum).
 Develop new impact sites
 The School and the University became sponsors in 2015 and co-organisers of the Ealing Art
 Festival – a relationship which gives research-informed work in the fields covered by UoA33 and
 34 a showcase in a local community context (for example Brylla’s film Zanzibar Soccer Dreams
 was screened at the 2018 event).
 PRISM has generated engagement with a wide range of industry contacts, among them Warner
 Brothers, the British Film Institute (BFI), the British Council, Thunderbird Releasing, the British
 Library, the Advertising Producer's Association, the History of Advertising Trust, the GRAMMY
 Museum, Los Angeles and the Ibiza Music Video Festival.

 Caston and Hester respectively form the focus of the unit’s two Impact Case Studies. Caston’s
 extensive music video heritage research programme has led to significant changes at the British
 Film Institute (BFI), in the British and Cuban industries, and significant shifts in the way that

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 audiences internationally view British music videos. Caston worked closely with the curators at the
 BFI and British Library and enabled these national institutions to remedy the large gaps in their
 collections and scholarship on music video. As a result, the collections of both organisations have
 been strengthened and for the first time they have a common database template that records for
 posterity the collaborative artistic contributions to music videos.

 The second ICS is based on Hester’s research (Gender, Technology and Work: Policy Debates
 and Creative Practice) and demonstrates impact across two broad spheres: public policy debates,
 and creative practice. Perhaps uniquely, both a series of leading public policy think-tanks and
 cultural institutions and artists have drawn on her insights. The case study describes the results
 of her engagement with a number of UK think-tanks, international organisations (UNESCO and
 Fundación Saber Futuro), and successful collaborations with arts venues (ICA and Science
 Gallery London).

 1.4 Plans for the next five years
 Over the next five years the unit will seek to expand its interdisciplinary reach and to consolidate
 and grow its research base. We also aim to cement the unit’s reputation for policy-informing
 research in the areas of the creative industries and the crisis of work - two core areas to have
 emerged during the assessment period. Our objectives are based on the University’s plan for
 research and include the following objectives:
       1. To increase research income by securing funding from research councils, attending to
          the direction calls take, in particular in relation to the creative economy.
       2. To build capacity in our research staff and PGR student base.
       3. To continue to identify, nurture and monitor impact target communities.
       4. To secure more industry-based and third sector research collaborations.
       5. To further expand PRISM and generally to continue to develop our internal research
          infrastructure.
       6. To positively support equality and diversity in our research-related recruitment and
          activities.
 We will move towards realising these objectives by continuing to expand and deepen existing
 collaborations, and ensuring we further exploit synergies within UWL (music, health and computer
 science in particular), and externally through our wide-ranging industry, cultural institution and
 policy networks. We plan to expand the range of activities of the Hidden Screen Industries and the
 Gender, Technology, Work research groups and through these to seek partnerships with industry
 and the third sector. We will further expand our local community links. We have identified future
 local impact sites, including the Pitzhanger Manor and Gallery Trust, Watermans Art Centre and
 the Chiswick Book Festival where at all levels, from undergraduate exhibitions linked to research-
 led courses (Watermans), to exhibitions by staff and talks (e.g., Caston at the Chiswick Book Fair
 in 2020) we have sought engagement with local audiences.
 We aim to build on our present connection with arts and media organisations, and to sustain our
 impact on policy via policy organisations and activist groups. We will continue to build capacity
 through supporting junior researchers and expanding our PhD base. We will continue to engage
 with research councils with the intention of trebling the level of income over the period. In parallel,
 members of the unit will contribute to the growth of PRISM, supporting its engagement with and
 shaping of national and local agendas in the arts and creative sectors. Our strategy to positively
 promote diversity will positively encourage applications from BAME students, and promoting
 research projects addressing the needs of minorities or underrepresented groups.




                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.5 Support for standards and ethics
 Academic research infrastructure to support standards
 The University Research, Scholarship and Enterprise Committee (URSEC) meets termly and is
 chaired by the Deputy Vice Chancellor. URSEC receives reports on issues of University-wide
 interest, including termly updates and an annual report from schools on research, enterprise and
 scholarly and knowledge transfer activities. URSEC also advises on research governance within
 the individual Schools. The University Research Degrees Sub-Committee scrutinises progression
 of postgraduate research students to registration to MPhil status, and onward to doctoral (PhD)
 completion.
 Ethics
 The University Research Ethics Committee (UREC) – also a subcommittee of URSEC - has overall
 responsibility for ethics and research integrity, and it monitors all staff and students research
 projects. This UoA’s research is overseen by the School’s Research Ethics Panel (SCREP),
 chaired successively by Strong, Dowd and Hester. SCREP panels scrutinise and approve student
 and staff applications and report regularly to UREC. UREC sub-group meetings are convened
 where ‘high risk’ applications are identified by any School/College SCREP.

 1.6 Interdisciplinary Research
 Interdisciplinarity was a significant objective of the post-REF14 strategy, as shown above, and the
 unit is mostly constituted by researchers whose roles lie in the different disciplines within LSFMD.
 As such there is already an operational and structural foundation for collegiate interaction and
 collaboration which embraces an interdisciplinary ethos. The establishment of PRISM epitomises
 and seeks to consolidate this characteristic. Staff frequently work, research and supervise in
 contiguous fields, resulting in interdisciplinary (Caston for example) or multidisciplinary work
 (Hester for example). This unit also has collaborative links with the Dementia Care group in
 UoA03, and has co-led with Tischler a number of impact events (Dementia Café and Sandpit
 Event to promote art in dementia care).

 1.7 Open Research Environment
 UWL fosters a culture of openness and supports Open Access to both publications and data.
 UoA34 has run 2 seminars to discuss Open Access with its members. All members of the unit
 have received training on uploading outputs to the institutional repository, including bespoke
 sessions on compliance. We support the open research agenda, and 35% of our repository
 outputs include publications other than journal articles and conference proceedings. Examples of
 open data engagement include the donation by Caston of research data to UCLA (California); the
 sharing through a donation to the British Library of an industry database of tens of thousands of
 officially licenced music videos with metadata; and an archive of Warp Records’ music videos and
 accompanying metadata. These are instantiations of our approach to ensure we share research
 data whenever possible. Other examples within the environment include the archiving of
 recordings of talks as free-to-access podcasts at the Genre Studies Network event in 2013 (UWL
 as project partner with University of Birmingham); and the full range of papers as free-to access
 podcasts at the Light | Sensitive | Material conference in 2019 via Backdoor Broadcasting.
 2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy
 In 2015, the University introduced a new employment framework - the Academic Employment
 Framework (AEF) - for the management, development and support of all staff (see institutional
 statement, section 2.1, paragraph 5). In this framework all academic can focus (in addition to


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 teaching) on research, scholarship and/ or knowledge exchange activities. They agree targets for
 these activities which form part of their annual appraisals.
 The AEF has enabled the unit to take an overall approach to staffing that reflects our strategic
 objective to recruit, develop and retain established and where possible, world-leading researchers;
 and to ensure sustainability. In the period, a number of significant appointments/promotions were
 made (see section 1.3) that have enabled us to grow and have provided ring-fenced research time
 to increase research activity and impact. Through these, we have developed links with The Urban
 Photographers Association (Mikuriya); the Photographers Gallery (Henning; Mikuriya); the British
 Film Institute (Caston; Nardelli); the Institute of Contemporary Arts the New Economics
 Foundation, the Institute of Public Policy Research, and the think-tank Autonomy (Hester).

 We have also nurtured junior members over the period to enable 4 of them to become SRRs and
 be included in REF21. We are taking this approach forward in the next period, and are mentoring
 recently appointed junior staff who form part of our ‘next generation’ of researchers. That
 generation will feed into research on screenwriting, advertising, architectural theory and broadcast
 news, manifesting a broader research base in the future.

 2.2 Staff development
 Career development responsibility is shared between the central services and Schools/Colleges.
 The AEF framework provides a 5-day annual allowance for continuous professional development,
 and strong support (open to all academic staff) to attend conferences. This UoA has contributed
 to 50 national and 40 and international conferences over the period. The AEF also encourages
 staff to pursue further qualifications, and to undertake sabbaticals or periods of study leave. Three
 LSFMD staff have been supported to undertake a PhD (including through a 100-hour reduction in
 their workload), one of whom one was awarded within the period. One member of staff in the unit
 benefited from a semester-long sabbatical to work on her monograph. The School also has an
 additional budget to support staff in attending and participating in events and conferences.
 Research and Enterprise Operations Services (REOps) offer regular sessions on research issues
 such as Knowledge Exchange and impact; collaborative projects; research commercialisation;
 managing research budgets, funding opportunities, bid writing, industry and user engagement;
 they support applications for research funding. All members of the unit have attended these
 events, and have been supported by REOps with successful funding applications (e.g. Caston;
 Henning; Strong). Human Resources offers training on equality and diversity, appraisals,
 preparing for promotion, and working with external collaborators. The Library offers training and
 one-to-one support on Open Access and compliance. It has encouraged staff and research
 students to sign up to and use ORCID ID. 90% of submitted staff in the unit have an ORCID ID.
 The Communications Office offers advice on media; public engagement; engaging with diverse
 audiences; using social media; and lobbying strategies. The Research Communications group
 meets monthly to strategize media exposure for research; the unit is represented on this group by
 Caston and Hester.
 The University has an Impact Group that has provided advice and review opportunities; it has also
 provided guidance on REF and the REF Code of Practice. The annual University Research
 Conference led by the PVC (Academic) provides opportunities to disseminate research findings
 and to network with potential new research partners. The unit fully engages with university-wide
 research events and support, including contributions to the doctoral training programme (Dowd,
 Strong, Hester); co-management of the Annual Research Conference (Strong), with regular
 attendance and presentations at university-wide events. Members of the unit have attended
 training sessions on impact, public engagement, interdisciplinary research, mentoring, new career
 researchers, and ethics.

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The UoA’s research groups provide an intellectual context (through regular meetings) for the
 production, writing, and dissemination of research and engagement with research, both within
 and outside an academic framework as detailed in section 4. Since 2014 the UoA has led a
 research mentoring scheme across LSFMD, open to all, including those interested in starting
 research, or seeking to embed research in the curriculum. The mentoring scheme is supported by
 a ‘Research Community’ page (a non-hierarchical forum, to which both mentors and mentees
 contribute as equals) on the University’s VLE.

 2.3 Research Students
 Expansion has been a key priority and the number of doctoral students has grown since 2014
 (from 6 to 15); with 8 students being awarded over the REF period. Eight were successful in
 securing a Vice-Chancellor’s PhD Scholarship since 2016.
 Our doctoral students are an integral part of the UoA’s research community and activities. Through
 PRISM, the three research groups, reading groups, and doctoral presentation events, we develop
 students’ engagement with research and provide opportunities for peer discussion and exchange.
 We support students as they prepare for presentations at UWL or outside, and mentor them to
 write for publication. Drawing on this support, and on a central annual conference fund, students
 have presented twelve conference papers and published two articles in discipline-specific journals
 and four in the UWL Open Press journal, New Vistas. The annual UWL doctoral conference,
 organised by the Graduate School, which includes a competition from across all PGRs, has seen
 UoA34 students win four prizes over the period. The School’s own annual staff-doctoral
 symposium, featuring external speakers, is a showcase for students’ work in progress. Our PGRs
 have also been able to assist with, and present papers at conferences. They are able to contribute
 to mentored teaching (depending on experience) up to six hours per week (including preparation)
 (see institutional statement, section 3.2). During the COVID-19 pandemic a weekly online writing
 retreat was held to compensate for the negative impact restrictions have had on a normal sense
 of community.
 In addition to LSFMD-based training and mentorship, our students benefit from a formal centrally
 run research training programme based on the VITAE Framework and run by the Graduate
 School, with contributions from senior academics from across the institution. Students complete a
 series of Research Development Units (RDU) throughout the entire period of their registration,
 with embedded Epigeum interactive online activities. An emergency support plan was put in place
 in 2020 (under the conditions imposed by COVID-19) to aid students who needed additional time
 or resources.
 One of the University’s priorities (see institutional statement, section 3.2) has been to support
 students to complete in time. We aim to support completion within 3 to 3.5 years through a
 university-wide ‘doctoral journey’ and mechanisms to support all students in achieving this
 (monthly supervision meetings, termly reports, annual reports, and the opportunity to
 speak directly to the Graduate School for extra support). This strategy has generated a very high
 level of satisfaction of our graduate students with the support and opportunities they receive. In
 the most recent PRES 2020, UWL was ranked 4th (out of 103) on the research skills measure,
 and 7th on Progression.
 Whilst supervisors support progression through regular meetings with their students (at least once
 a month), the Graduate School oversees all doctoral students’ progress and monitors satisfaction;
 it scrutinises and makes support recommendations on students’ annual reports. Pastoral advice
 is provided through the University’s central student support services. The Graduate School also
 offers training to all supervisors across the University. Our supervision arrangements include
 annual mandatory training; regular forums for discussion (UWL termly research days); and the
 assignment of a subject specialist principal supervisor, and of a second supervisor, for all students.

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In case of multidisciplinary research projects, a third supervisor from a different discipline is also
 assigned, when needed. Supervisors discuss the University’s Code of Practice for Research
 Students and Supervisors at the Graduate School training sessions. The latter outlines the
 University’s principles and values, and its priorities in terms of doctoral education (see institutional
 statement, section 3.2).

 2.4 Equality and Diversity
 In order to increase access to doctoral studies in the unit, we provide financial support through
 ‘alumni discounts’, fee waivers, and Vice-Chancellor’s PhD scholarships. The commitment to
 diversity and equality in the unit is evidenced by virtue of its critical research agenda, centred
 around issues of race (Henry), disability (Brylla), gender and sexuality (Hester). Recent and
 current doctoral topics include the representation of aging and femininity, gender and reproductive
 labour, race and photography, the figure of the witch in British culture, male thinness in visual
 culture and gestational technologies and visual culture. Our interactions with research students
 also frequently interrogate various modes of exclusion and bias which may be operative in cultural
 and artistic media. We seek to generate inclusivity and critique through our text selection for
 reading groups and in our choice of invited speakers. The School allows flexible workload and
 remote working to enable travel and overseas stays; for example one UoA member has been
 supported in this way for two periods of parental leave.
 The University has clear formal channels to address positively the EDI agenda (see institutional
 statement, section 3.3):
 Training
 HR delivers a mandatory programme of training for all staff on all aspects of equality and diversity
 which has been attended by members of the unit. Supervisors have been trained on EDI issues
 through the training run by the Graduate School.
 Research development opportunities
 There is a transparent process governing all applications for research opportunities. All
 competitive opportunities are supported by briefing, clearly expressed protocols, and follow
 established procedures; they are open to all staff meeting the relevant criteria.
 Recruitment and progression of research students
 The recruitment of doctoral students, and the award of the Vice-Chancellor’s PhD scholarships,
 are based on criteria that specify entry requirements, with submission of a written statement and
 attending an interview with a panel including supervisors and a Graduate School representative,
 to ensure fairness and consistency across the institution.
 REF
 The unit has received training on recruitment, promotion and appraisal; and the unit’s leads and
 reviewers have received specific training on equality and diversity, and unconscious bias to
 support them in their roles.
 During the COVID-19 period the University has engaged with students and staff on an ongoing
 basis, with guidance and help on well-being and progress issues.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 Our growth strategy has been to support applications targeting both external income (Research
 Councils, industry, government agencies, consultancy, etc.) and internal investments. Internal
 funding is used to support active researchers with travel and equipment, and to provide funding
 for bursaries for PhD students. The University has a strong structure (REOps) to identify relevant

                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funding opportunities and support bids. REOps have provided impact support to staff from the
 unit undertaking both grant-funded and unfunded research including: advice, support, brokerage
 of industry contacts, advice on patents and commercialization, and impact.
 The research income linked to the unit has increased from £23,000 in REF2014 to £221,000 in
 REF2021. This increase was generated through bids, including sponsorship by and collaboration
 with creative industry and cultural institutions (e.g. BFI, ICA, GRAMMY Museum, the Ilford
 Archives). Our recruitment strategy was calibrated to support this endeavour and now we can call
 upon solid national and international networks linked to staff returned in REF 2021 and, looking to
 the future, in new areas which should, in time, achieve a solid research basis in terms of outputs.
 In order to sustain this success, we seek to include junior colleagues in applications to enable
 them to gain research bid writing, and to enhance their potential to become PI.
 Henning was the recipient of a £130,000 AHRC Leadership Award for her project on Aesthetics,
 Industry and Innovation in 20th Century Photography: the Ilford Archive. Mikuriya was a named
 participant in the project. Caston was PI of an AHRC follow-on grant Dancing, Drawing and
 Dreaming 2017-18 (£76,568) and Co-I on the AHRC on Fifty Years of British Music Video:
 Assessing Innovation Industry, Influence and Impact 2015-2018 (£477,089). She brought these
 awards with her when she joined UWL in May 2017. Caston was also PI on Nothing Compares to
 you, which was funded by a £5,000 grant from The British Council (2018). Strong leads a project
 Colourful World: a game for sustainable development education for children - an Erasmus-funded
 project with 6 European partners (2018 – 2021) with a value of € 264,423.
 To supplement external funding, the School has financially supported research and impact-related
 events and equipment linked to research projects in this unit. The School has also financially
 supported the unit’s research groups and has allocated research and administration time to staff
 organising and contributing to these events, e.g. After Work (2018: Gender, Technology and Work
 research group) and Light | Sensitive | Material (2019: Thinking the Image research group).

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
 In addition to a significant investment programme on campus that has created social and open
 learning spaces, advanced simulation spaces for research, a new library, a large flexible
 performance auditorium and a Sports Centre, the University has also installed specialist facilities
 for the School such as a Motion Capture Studio and a state-of-the art Radio studio. The
 infrastructure includes 24-hour access to a large library of books, journals and IT resources and
 dedicated studios for TV, radio, print, film, photography, music and artistic practice. The UoA also
 benefits from a media resource centre shared with the London College of Music, with an extensive
 stock of recording, live sound, photographic and video equipment.
 PRISM offers an inclusive platform for UoA33 and 34 researchers to engage with cultural
 institutions and with arts, music and media organisations. PRISM focuses on research which has
 a progressive impact on industry practice, public sector practice or government policy in the
 creative industries, with particular focus on diversity and gender studies. It acts as catalyst to
 generate interdisciplinary research through internal and external events; and plays a transactional
 role in supporting research and impact activities.
 All doctoral students benefit from a bespoke doctoral student hub, the newly built Rami Ranger
 House which offers to the unit’s PGRs spaces for individual and collaborative work, socialising,
 supervision and mentoring (see institutional statement section 4.4). A team of technicians, library
 and computing staff within the School also provide support and training to LSFMD staff and
 students. The unit has benefitted by being able to access state-of-the art facilities to host national
 and international conferences (see section 4).



                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Since 2014 the unit has substantially increased its level and range of collaboration with other HEIs
 and partners outside academia. Staff in the unit have collaborated with individuals and groups
 from other institutions in research networks, think tanks, research-led public education
 programmes, subject associations, edited volumes, special issues and conference organisation.
 The UoA has sustained, initiated, and developed a number of collaborations with partners in HE
 and cultural institutions.

 4.1 Collaboration and Networks
 Academic collaborations
 Collaboration on publications has been a notable contributing factor in the increased vitality of
 research in the unit. Nardelli collaborated with colleagues at University of Cambridge, Universita'
 Cattolica di Milano, CUNY, NYU, Harvard, UCL, and others for research seminar and subsequent
 edited book project (2016). Brylla (2015-20) co-edited books with colleagues from Surrey
 University and Aarhus University, Denmark. Dowd co-edited with Rulyova (detailed below). Hester
 collaborated with the collective Laboria Cuboniks and with Nick Snirnek (Kings College London)
 on articles, papers, chapters and book projects.
 Dowd continued his work (initiated in the last assessment period) within the AHRC funded Genre
 Studies Network with Rulyova (Birmingham). The collaboration led to the editing and publication
 of a volume of essays, Genre Trajectories: Identifying, Mapping, Projecting (2015), with Dowd and
 Rulyova as joint editors. He was also an invited contributor to the AHRC Research Network Serge
 Daney and Queer Cinephilia for its 2018 Paris conference (Dowd’s work will be included in a
 forthcoming volume based on the event).
 Henning’s AHRC Research Leadership project (2018-2019) not only fostered a network of
 participants, contributors and interlocutors, but also included key industry engagement at the
 Ilford archives. The grant supported Henning in disseminating her field-redefining research on
 processes, industrial machinery, historical products, and materials at a number of conferences
 and seminars. The project also generated outreach research-led events at the Photographer’s
 Gallery (see below) in London.
 Creative industry and cultural institution partners
 Caston’s (2020) The Hidden Screen Industries Research Network was formed in collaboration
 with Patrick Russell, Senior Curator Non-Fiction at the BFI National Archive as a follow-up to the
 pioneering AHRC research project Fifty Years of British Music Video. Caston’s contribution to the
 London Screen Dance Festival, 2016, run by Sadlers Wells and the BalletBoyz, led to a number
 of collaborations between musicians and Sadlers’ Wells resident choreographers. In 2018,
 Caston’s landmark collection of 200 British music videos 1966 to 2016 was given as an official
 donation to the UCLA, Film and Television Archive, the second-largest repository of motion
 pictures and broadcast programming in the United States and is now being used in teaching with
 UCLA students.
 In 2017, Hester worked closely with the Institute of Contemporary Arts (ICA) and Science
 Gallery London (SGL) on the ‘Post-Cyber Feminist International’ – a 5-day series of workshops,
 performances, and discussions, building from ideas first outlined in O5 (the text in which the term
 ‘post-cyber feminism’ was coined). The event reached a total audience of 1,349 and generated
 substantial media coverage. A full account of Hester’s engagement with art organisations is given
 in the ICS centred on her research.
 In 2017, Nardelli collaborated with an independent curator, Luca Zaffarano, and a private museum
 (Museo Ettore Fico, Turin) for an exhibition. She also delivered two 6-week seminar series (on
 Antonioni [2019] and on Fellini [2020]) linked to retrospectives on the directors at the British Film

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institute and as part of the organisation’s education programme (participants consist largely of
 senior citizen members of the BFI). Strong partnered with the national organisation The Culture
 Capital Exchange on their ‘walking weekends’ – delivering aspects of his research to a non-
 academic public. Brylla was involved in planning and organising the Edge of the City Short Film
 Festival (a community and international film festival in Barking) - with colleagues from University
 of East London, Warwick University and University of Hertfordshire
 Unit member involvement in external research/policy networks include Urban Encounters and
 Urban PhotoFest (with Goldsmiths, Kingston University, Tate and the Photographers Gallery),
 Autonomy, Panafrican Thought Network, and the National Black Crown Prosecution Association
 (NBCPA).
 The UoA was co-funder of Urban Photofest in 2017 and 2018 and hence was a partner with
 Goldsmiths, under this umbrella, on the Urban Photographers Association conference at Tate
 Britain in 2017 (with papers by Henning and Mikuriya and panels chaired by Henning and Dowd).

 4.2 Activities and contributions to the wider research base, economy and society
 As an indication of the unit’s success in adding to its contributions to economy and society, in
 particular through influence on policy, the work of Caston and Hester has been central. Hester’s
 reputation for field-defining research into labour in relation to gender and technology, with a focus
 on reproduction, has resulted in significant and still growing recognition from within academia but
 in particular in an art institution context on the one hand and a policy context on the other. Caston
 has been a prominent contributor to several annual BFI events run with the Media Magazine
 Centre (with a focus on young adults from BAME groups) which developed resources for the
 National Curriculum for GCSE and A-Level. Caston was an invited member of the Adobe Creative
 Campus Executive Roundtable on digital literacy initiatives across European HE and secondary
 education (2019). In the same context she has operated in a consultancy capacity for the Learning
 Grid for London (2019).
 Editorships and membership of editorial boards
 Among the varied activities and contributions to the research base associated with the subject
 areas of the unit, the expertise and authority of our members has received the acknowledgement
 of a significant number of academic journals and publishers through invitations to act as series
 editors or members of editorial boards. Henning was (over the period) a member of the Editorial
 Board for Photographies; Hester is Series Editor for Routledge Sexualities in Society Series and
 a member of the Editorial Board of New Formations; Lelis is a member of the Editorial Board
 of BrandTrends Journal; Mikuriya is Series Editor for Universitas’ Photography and Philosophy
 Series; Strong is a member of the Editorial Board of Adaptation: The Journal of Adaptation Studies
 and also of Critical Commentary and New Vistas (University of West London)
 Conferences/symposia
 An important aspect of our approach to building recognition for our work, has been to attract
 academics from other HEIs and practitioners and researchers from the creative sector to UWL-
 based and UWL-partnered externally hosted events. Film, Photography and Visual Cultures
 (including adaptation studies) were all represented by academic research events (with industry-
 facing elements) convened by members of the UoA. Henning’s AHRC Leadership project (2018-
 19) culminated in the Light | Sensitive | Material conference at UWL (November 2019; co-
 organised with Mikuriya) - a major photography research event with keynote speakers Prof.
 Howard Caygill and Prof. Laura U. Marks and numerous established academic speakers. It
 attracted 150 delegates and the event formed the basis for a successful proposal by Henning
 and Mikuriya to edit a special issue of the journal Photographies (Routledge) with
 contributions by, among others, Caygill, Jussi Parrika and Peter Buse. The special issue is
 forthcoming in 2021. 2019 also saw the ancillary practitioner-focussed training event The Stuff of

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Photography organised (over 6 weeks) by Henning in association with her PhD student in
 collaboration with the Photographer’s Gallery, London. In a similar vein, Mikuriya was the
 convenor of Urban Photography: Making, Researching, Teaching Symposium (2017) – a further
 collaboration with The Photographers’ Gallery. Strong along with Dowd and Osbon [UoA 33]
 were Co-convenors of the Sound and Screen Symposium (2015), while Strong convened
 Representing the British Spy: Fictions, Histories and Futures – both at University of West London.
 Strong was also Co-convenor for Adaptations and the Metropolis, the 10th Annual Conference of
 the Association of Adaptation Studies which was held at Senate House (2015). Nardelli was Co-
 organiser of Zabriskie Point at 50: From Counterculture to Capitalocene, a symposium at the
 University of the Creative Arts, Farnham (2020). Lelis organised the 2018 edition of the annual
 industry event, the Brand Design Conference, at UWL.
 The area of post-work has been prominent also with two events convened by Hester, first the
 After Work: Life, Labour, and Automation Symposium (2018), held at University of West London
 in association with Autonomy (with input from the WrkWrkWrk study group comprising PhD
 students) and subsequently as a co-convenor for a panel at UCL. Her role as part of the organising
 group for The Post-Cyber Feminist International Conference (2018) held at the Institute of
 Contemporary Arts, London, brought together her research on labour, gender and technology.
 In addition, unit members were invited to chair panels at approximately forty academic
 conferences and ten policy or industry events during the period (including the Deleuze Studies
 annual conference, the Adaptation Studies annual conference and panels at the BFI and ICA
 among others).
 International leading roles
 We have held leading positions in professional subject associations and learned societies. Strong
 (2010-16) was Chair and co-Chair of Association of Adaptation Studies (AAS) for 2 terms and is
 a trustee of the Association of Adaptation Studies (2010-). Caston (2019) occupied the role of
 Steering Committee Chair on the Archaeology of Fashion AHRC Award to University of the Arts
 London. Hester (2018-) is a member of the Board of Advisors of the think-tank Autonomy. Dowd
 (2015) was joint UK manager for the COST (European Cooperation in Science and
 Technology) New Materialisms Network. Magne (2016-18) acted as Chair of the London Second
 Language Acquisition Forum.
 Keynotes, invited and funded papers
 An index of the gains made in the unit in terms of influence and reach is to be found in the number
 of keynote addresses (and equivalents) to conferences members have been invited to give at
 universities, learned societies and cultural institutions. Hester was keynote at Cultural Production
 and the Redundancy of Work: Precarity, Automation and Critique, The Raymond Williams Society
 Annual Conference (2019); Henning at The Business of Photography, Photographic History
 Research Centre, De Montfort University (2019); Photography Off the Scale, FAMU, Prague
 (2019); Mikuriya at Cities of Light: Paris, Université de Paris: Sorbonne (2018) and the
 International Day of Light Symposium, Chelsea College, University of the Arts (2018) ; she was
 also honoured with a Roundtable Discussion to mark the publication of Historia światła: Idea
 fotografii (Universitas) at the Museum of Photography, Krakow, Poland (2019); Strong was
 keynote at the Evolving Stories Conference De Montfort University, Leicester (2017); Adaptation
 and Nation Symposium, Queen Margaret University, Edinburgh (2017);Safeguarding the Planet:
 Meeting Sustainable Development Goals, University of Essex (2016) and Adaptation Studies: New
 Approaches, Vellore Institute of Technology, India (2020).
 Members of the unit have commanded the attention of a substantial number of conference and
 seminar organisers, achieving a high degree of visibility and gaining access to conduits of
 dissemination and network-enhancing opportunities through invitations to present at events, of
 which the following is a representative sample: Universitat Internacional Catalunya: Barcelona

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (2016) and Writtle University College (2014) (Strong); University of Portland (USA) (2020) and
 UNIVATES, Brazil (2020) (Lelis);The School of Creative Media, City University of Hong Kong,
 Institute of Cultural Enquiry, Berlin (both 2016, Mikuriya); Senate House, Institut d’études
 avancées de Paris, Paris 8 (all 2018, Dowd); American University in Rome (2019), Royal
 Holloway, University of London (2019), University of Bern (2017), Pembroke College , University
 of Cambridge (2015) (Nardelli); International Film School, Havana (2019) (Caston); Durham
 University (2018), European University at St. Petersburg (2018), SOAS London (2018),
 Leuphana University of Lüneburg (2019), Scripps College Claremont, CA (2017). Camberwell
 College of Arts (2017), London School of Economics (2017), Goldsmiths College, London (2016)
 (Hester); De Montfort University (2019), Science Museum London (2019), Birkbeck (2018),
 School of Anthropology/Pitt Rivers Museum, University of Oxford (2018) (Henning). Of the total
 number of such invitations forty-seven were funded by the host institution(s) and twenty-five took
 place in an international setting.
 Our members have been in demand when it comes to contributions to events beyond the domain
 of academia. They have been invited to speak at a range of art and cultural institutions and
 societies with a significant international dimension. Just a sample of these would include the Jane
 Austen Society of North America Annual Festival (2018) (Strong), International Music Video
 Festival, Ibiza (2017, 2018, 2019) (Caston); Healthcare Academics Race Equality Diversity and
 Inclusivity Network (HAREDIN) (2020), Middlesex University (2020) (Henry), Max Planck
 Institute/Hertzian Library Rome (2019), (Nardelli); Floating Arts Space, Hong Kong (2016)
 (Mikuriya); Oslo National Academy of the Arts (2015), Centre de Cultura Contemporània de
 Barcelona (2019), Museo Reina Sofía, Madrid (2019), Strelka Institute of Media, Architecture and
 Design, Moscow (2019) (Hester).
 Members of the unit have appeared in roles connected directly to their research profiles in the
 media and are represented by appearances in the following: Video Killed the Radio Star (Sky TV)
 television series contributions (Caston), The Guardian Science Weekly Podcast, RTVE Radio 3,
 Spain, TV3 Catalunya, Spain and BBC Radio 5 (Hester). In addition, Strong has published pieces
 in The Conversation.
 Review activities, subject level recognition
 Staff in the unit have been book peer reviewers over the period for the following academic presses
 - Cambridge University Press, Wallflower Press, Bloomsbury, Palgrave Macmillan, Polity
 Press, Bristol University Press, Routledge, Wiley-Blackwell, Ashgate, University of Toronto Press,
 Penn State University Press and University of Minnesota Press.
 We have been in demand as peer reviewers for research councils and other funding bodies both
 in the UK and abroad. Dowd served as funding application reviewer for COST/Horizon 2020.
 Henning acted as reviewer of funding applications for the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific
 Research, the European Science Foundation, the AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Applications
 Scheme, the HERA JRP scheme and the FWF Austrian Science Fund. Hester (ESRC), Lelis
 (AHRC) and Nardelli (Israel Science Foundation) also served as peer reviewers for funding
 applications.
 Members act as reviewers of submissions for over twenty-two academic journals, among them:
 Music, Sound and the Moving Image (Caston), Samuel Beckett Today/Aujourd’hui, Modern
 French Studies, Journal of Deleuze and Guattari Studies (Dowd); Photographies, Journal of
 Visual Cultures, New Formations (Henning); Convergence, Intensities: The Journal of Cult Media,
 New Formations, Porn Studies, Sexualities, and Studies in 20th and 21st Century Literature
 (Hester); Theory, Culture and Society, Mosaic, The Journal of Architecture (Mikuriya), NECSUS:
 European Journal of Media Studies, Photographies, L’avventura: International Journal of Italian
 Film and Media Landscapes (Nardelli); Adaptation, The Journal of Adaptation in Film and


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Performance, Shakespeare: The Journal of the British Shakespeare Association, Australian
 Humanities Review, The Journal of Agricultural and Environmental Ethics (Strong).
 Memberships
 Staff in the UoA have been selected to review on several external validations; for example, Hester
 (2017) was a member of the Delphi panel for the research project ‘Pornography’s effects on
 audiences: explaining contradictory research data,’ funded by the Australian Research Council.
 Mikuriya (2017-) is a member of the Deutsche Börse Photography Foundation Prize Academy on
 behalf of The Photographers’ Gallery. The UoA holds many memberships including the following:
 BAFTA, The Royal Television Society; Association of Adaptation Studies; British Association of
 Film and Television Studies, MeCCSA; Association of Art Historians, Popular Culture
 Association/American Culture Association (USA), College Art Association (USA); European
 Documentary Network; Associacao Nacional de Designers; the Urban Photographers’
 Association; Feminist Studies Association, UK and Ireland.
 Awards, prizes, distinctions
 Robson was the winner of the Carl Bode Award for Outstanding Article published in the Journal
 of Popular Culture (2016) for ’Industry: Art Angel? Pepsi-Cola’s “Portrait of America” Art Annual
 as an early instance of corporate art sponsorship’.
 Hester is supervising a Wellcome Trust funded PhD student, for a project on gestational
 technologies and visual culture (to run 2020-23).
 Visiting professors/scholars
 Henning was Visiting Senior Research Fellow, Digital Cultures Research Centre University of the
 West of England, Bristol (honorary post) from Dec 2013 to Dec 2016.
 Our approach to developing a rich environment within the UoA and the School, and to ensure our
 research benefits from exposure in open access debates. We have fertile networks, which have
 provided us over the period with access to influential international industry, cultural institution and
 arts organisation partners. This has provided impetus for the UoA and a sense of direction for the
 future. We will continue to extend our intellectual endeavours to benefit our sector, and future
 generations of researchers. We are intent on ensuring we continue to engage and support the
 next generation of researchers to continue to develop and grow this UoA towards the next REF,
 and beyond.




                                                                                                Page 14
