Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Warwick

 Unit of Assessment: A5 Biological Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The School of Life Sciences (SLS) supports exciting, highly interdisciplinary bioscience research,
 ranging in scale from molecules, through cells and organisms to synthetic populations and global
 ecosystems, and spanning viruses, bacteria, protists, fungi, animals and plants. Studying this
 diversity allows us to operate across the breadth of living systems and investigate solutions to
 major global challenges.

 We have a cohesive, enthusiastic community producing world-class, high-impact research within
 an ambitious, vibrant yet nurturing and highly collaborative research environment. The
 atmosphere in the School is open, friendly and most importantly, inclusive. Our reach will be
 significantly enhanced by the opening in February 2021 of our new, £54m state-of-the-art
 Interdisciplinary Biomedical Research Building (IBRB) (REF5a-4.2). A flagship science building
 for the University, the IBRB will facilitate strategic, collaborative working between SLS and
 Warwick Medical School (WMS) providing premium research space to grow our world-leading
 STEMM research and innovate in the strategic areas of neurobiology, infection biology and cell
 and tissue models for disease.

 Our core strengths encompass the use of modern analytical technologies to understand how
 molecular and cellular mechanisms control function at different scales. Our outputs are diverse,
 with demonstrable impacts in medicine, the bioeconomy and agriculture, all addressing the overall
 University mission of Excellence with Purpose (REF5a-1.2, 2.1).

 SLS currently has 62 academic research and teaching FTE and 11 teaching focussed FTE, with
 support from 31 administrative and 38 technical support FTE. Our strategy organizes our research
 strengths into four research themes: Biomedical Sciences, Environmental Science, Biotechnology
 and Synthetic Biology, and Plant and Crop Science, with the majority of our staff being active
 members of two or more of the themes, reflecting our strong inter-disciplinary, outward facing
 culture. Themes are further strengthened by interdepartmental links, including joint appointments,
 interdisciplinary research centres and the University Global Research Priorities (GRPs) initiative
 (REF5a-2.9.1).

 Overarching research strategy
 The School’s strategy since REF2014 has focussed on developing a strong community of
 interdisciplinary researchers, maximising interactions between work at the Gibbet Hill and
 Wellesbourne campuses. This strategy has led successfully to this submission to a single UoA in
 REF2021. SLS is within the top 15 UK biology departments for research income/FTE (around
 £200K per academic FTE), but the School’s size has been significantly smaller than that of most
 of its direct competitors. Therefore, in 2017, following a robust internal process, we launched our
 ten-year strategy. Developed in consultation with our own community and with the support of the
 University, it includes a vision to grow staff and student numbers in order to: foster a culture of
 innovative cross-disciplinary research that will underpin key national and global issues such as
 ageing, antimicrobial resistance, environment and food security; build research capacity, quality,
 income and impact in chosen areas of research; and train the next generation of scientists and
 technologists by continuing to deliver an outstanding student experience through a research-led,
 internationally competitive portfolio of degrees.

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Specifically, our strategy includes a planned investment in several new posts including 19 R&T, 5
 TF plus 9.5 support staff FTEs. The first recruitment phase (2018-20) is now complete, with 7 new
 academic appointments (6 new posts and 1 replacement) and 2 pending (as of Dec 2020): Prof
 Boltze (Neuroscience), Prof Bassel (Computational Biology), Dr Stansfeld (joint with Chemistry),
 Dr Sagona (Associate Prof of Infection/Structural Biology), Dr Mushinski and Dr Puxty (Assistant
 Professors of Environmental Biology), and Dr Martins (Assistant Prof, Computational Biology).

 In order to keep our strategy fresh, relevant and inclusive, we formed the Research Strategy
 Committee, which is chaired by the Head of School (HoS) and comprises the Director of Research,
 research leaders, Deputy Head of School, Head of Administration, Research Strategy
 Development Officer (RSDO) and Research & Impact Services (R&IS) (REF5a-1.7). It oversees
 high-level decisions on research strategy and develops and implements policies designed to
 promote research and impact excellence. A separate Research Management Committee reviews
 progress against strategy, safe working practices, training, industry liaison and funding
 opportunities. It is chaired by the Director of Research and is attended by the Research Theme
 leads, RSDO, and chair of Health and Safety.
 Our four Research Themes shape our research culture and work synergistically with inter-
 disciplinary Research Centres and the University’s Global Research Priorities, as shown in the
 figure below:

                       Research Themes, Centres and GRP

                Health GRP                          Materials and Innovative
                                                     Manufacturing GRP

                   WAMIC                                            WISB

                          Biomedicine           Synthetic Biology
                                               and Biotechnology

                                          UoA5
            SBIDER                      research

                             Environmental     Plant and Crop
                             bioscience               Science


                     WESIC                                      WCC


              Sustainable city GRP                        Food GRP

 Research themes

 Biomedical science: the research vision for this theme is to capitalise on ever greater
 integration with colleagues in WMS (REF5a-2.7), bolstered by co-location in the new building, to
 understand and exploit key mechanisms enabling a healthy brain and a healthy body.
 The theme is delivering world-class fundamental research on basic biological processes
 which is fuelling translational medicine approaches. Theme members investigate the

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 molecular basis of host-pathogen interactions and anti-microbial resistance; neuronal
 communication and neurodegenerative diseases and models of transmission and control of
 infectious diseases. Highlights include: Prof Keeling and the SBIDER team of epidemiologists are
 advising SAGE on the frontline of the national COVID-19 response strategy; Dr Connelly won a
 UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship for the development of new antimicrobials based on ancient
 textbook recipes; Prof Dowson won £1.1M from MRC for developing China-UK AMR hubs, funding
 for drug candidate screening through the Biomedicines Catapult and has set up a spinout company
 which provides a drug candidate screening service; pioneering studies on influenza virus and
 pneumovirus by Prof Easton led to the development of a vaccination strategy based on non-
 infectious, interfering viral particles and his spinout company (Virion Health) secured in excess of
 £20M for further development and phase II trials. Our neurobiology group is led by Prof Dale who
 has an international reputation for the study of nutrient/CO2 sensing and the development and use
 of biosensors to investigate neuronal signalling. The world’s first point-of-care biosensors for the
 early diagnosis of stroke are being commercialised by his spinout company Sarissa Biomedical
 Ltd which has received £6.9M investment since 2013. The appointment of Prof Boltze, a world
 expert in stroke and vascular dementia, adds depth to this vibrant research community, which also
 benefits from extensive interactions with clinicians and engineers.

 Biotechnology and synthetic biology: The research vision for this theme is to promote bio-
 businesses through informed and directed innovation. Three young spinout companies are
 examples of this drive: Humane Technologies (est. 2017, Prof Soyer) which designs and produces
 measurement devices and associated data collection platforms for biotechnology; Cytecom (est.
 2018, Dr Asally) which offers ultra-fast technology to detect bacteria in complex environments;
 Lucidix Biolabs Ltd (Est 2017, Dr Sagona) for bacteriophage-based diagnostics for the detection
 of bacterial infections in medical and food samples.

 This theme is focussing on engineering biosystems for a stronger bioeconomy. The theme
 uses ‘omics and synthetic biology to understand cell differentiation, community structure,
 stochasticity, metabolite cycling, crop performance under stress, and use in silico evolution to
 understand and develop biological products. Highlights include the BBSRC/EPSRC-funded WISB
 Centre for synthetic biology (£10.5M, McCarthy) which supports multidisciplinary science for new
 bioengineering technologies, processes and products. Dr Asally’s work on electrical signalling and
 bacterial biofilms is setting a new paradigm for the detection of pathogens in fluids. Dr Corre is
 engineering biosynthetic pathways to generate complex natural bioactive compounds in
 microorganisms such as Streptomyces. Prof Soyer is designing synthetic microbial communities
 of defined species which collectively provide catalytic activities of industrial value. Dr Ntoukakis
 and colleagues are evaluating synthetic effectors (synEffectors) for re-engineering signalling
 pathways in plants to enhance stress resilience. Prof McCarthy (WISB Director), Dr Jaramillo, Dr
 Carpenter and Dr Hebenstreit are developing new synthetic prokaryotic and eukaryotic
 biomolecular circuitry with computational tools for understanding and predicting process control.
 Successes include a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship to Dr Carpenter to develop his work with
 mini-GCPRs as synthetic switches, and an EPSRC/BBSRC award to Dr Hebenstreit (£2M, with
 colleagues from Physics and Mathematics) for defining transcriptional phase transitions.

 Environmental biosciences: The research vision for this theme is to study global resource
 cycles and deliver strategies and policies for sustainable management of natural environments,
 from the microbiome to global ecosystems.

 Meeting the challenges of a dynamic planet is at the heart of this theme’s research strategy.
 We have world leading experts in marine and environmental microbiomes (Prof Scanlan, Prof

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Bending, Prof Chen) and metagenomics (Prof Bending, Prof Wellington, Prof Allaby), arctic
 research (Dr Schafer) and climate active gases (Dr Purdy). Scientific highlights include the
 discovery of structural photosynthetic adaptations of the marine phototroph Prochlorococcus that
 allow it to adapt to different ecological niches (Scanlan, Nature Plants 2019, recently awarded a
 £2.3M ERC Advanced Investigator grant). Prof Wellington leads an international team using
 metagenomics to study environmental reservoirs of pathogenic bacteria in soil and water, and
 native wild animals, including badgers as hosts for bovine TB. She also leads the Warwick
 Environmental Systems Interdisciplinary Centre (WESIC), a cross-campus initiative that focusses
 on understanding how environmental changes affect biological communities. Prof Chen holds an
 ERC consolidator award (£1.8M) as well as funding from The Leverhulme Trust, The Royal Society
 and NERC. His work on microbial diversity and the metabolism of methylamines, quaternary
 amines and lipids links the microbiomes of the human body to terrestrial and marine ecosystems.
 Prof Bending has awards from BBSRC and NERC to help explain the complexity of root zone
 microbiomes and their contributions to natural mineral cycles and yield. Prof Allaby develops novel
 tools to study plant evolutionary genetics, plant domestication and archaeobotany. His techniques
 for analysis of ancient DNA have led to publications in Nature Plants 2019 (on the domestication
 of Sorghum) and Science 2018 (on the evolutionary legacy of maize in South America) and have
 also been adopted for bat identification by genotyping by his spinout company Ecological
 Forensics, which serves more than 800 customers.

 Plant and crop sciences: The research vision for this theme is to tackle questions at the heart
 of plant health and productivity, and transform crop improvement and protection strategies,
 with a particular focus on SLS’s research strengths in vegetable crops.
 Research in this theme spans fundamental plant biology through to translational science and
 exploits our unique resources at the Warwick Crop Centre (WCC). Highlights include Prof Grant’s
 work on the genome sequence and metabolic diversity of European ash trees (Nature, 2017) to
 the deployment by Syngenta of a gene that confers natural, broad-spectrum resistance to Turnip
 Mosaic Virus in commercial varieties of Chinese cabbage (Prof Walsh). Prof Gutierrez-Marcos
 showed that there is partial maintenance of organ-specific epigenetic marks during plant asexual
 reproduction (PNAS, 2018): his work explains important heritable phenotypic variation relevant to
 the propagation of many horticultural crops (BBSRC-NSF award, 2019). Prof Napier’s research
 on auxin perception was funded by Corteva Agriscience (£0.6M) and helped launch two new auxin
 herbicides globally, Arylex Active for cereals and Rinskor Active for rice. Dr Barker and WCC
 scientists run the Defra-funded national vegetable genetic improvement network (VeGIN, £0.88M).
 VeGIN is allied to the UK Vegetable Gene Bank (£0.5M), hosted by SLS at Wellesbourne, which
 has provided germplasm to 200 academic and commercial breeding groups across the world. Prof
 Holub has revived elite Phaseolus material from the Gene Bank and has recently bred and
 registered the first haricot bean varieties suited to the UK climate. These add arable rotation
 options for farmers and have received widespread press coverage and industrial interest. In
 recognition of the strength in translational crop science at Warwick, an endowment from The
 Elizabeth Creak Charitable Trust (ECCT) of £5M created a Chair of Food Security which is held
 by Prof Grant. The ECCT and a bequest from the Brewster family have contributed £1.75M to a
 Centre for Horticultural Technology focussing on crop gene editing, which opened in Autumn 2020.
 Prof Grant and Dr Ntoukakis lead a £2 million project on Xanthomonas diseases in the UK in
 partnership with Exeter University and Fera.




                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Interdisciplinary research
 Interdisciplinarity has become embedded in all our activities. Since REF 2014 SLS has played a
 key role in establishing cross-faculty interdisciplinary centres, including Warwick Antimicrobial
 Interdisciplinary Centre (WAMIC, Chair Prof Keeling), Warwick Environmental Sciences
 Interdisciplinary Centre (WESIC, Directors Prof Wellington and Prof Allaby), WISB (Director Prof
 McCarthy), the Epidemiology Research centre SBIDER which is directed by Prof Keeling, and the
 Warwick Centre for Industrial Biotechnology and Biorefining (WCIBB) involving Dr Corre, Dr
 Schäfer and Dr Barker amongst others. The School contributes to many of the University’s Global
 Research Priorities (GRP): Materials and Innovative Manufacturing (co-Director, Dr Barker), Food
 (co-Director, Prof Collier) and Health (Prof Dowson as AMR lead) (REF5a-2.9.1).

 Impact strategy
 We have a strong record of achievement in embedding translational research in our culture and
 practices. We foster partnerships and our researchers benefit from a targeted programme of
 support. The School-based research and impact team provides a bespoke, one-to-one service for
 MTAs, NDAs and contract development. Warwick Innovations (REF5a-2.8) runs weekly
 consultations on IP protection and exploitations. A regular pump-priming competition offers
 vouchers for initiating projects with industrial partners, with awards available to all staff. SLS also
 makes regular use of institutional awards, such as the BBSRC Impact Acceleration Account
 (REF5a-2.7) and Innovate UK KTPs. Outputs from both of these are represented in our impact
 case studies. Research themes work together to organise industry-partnering days, research
 development workshops and, since 2018, a highly successful programme of public science
 evenings. More recently in Autumn 2019 we joined forces with WMS to present a new “Science
 on the Hill” outreach series and SLS researchers (Profs Roper, Allaby, Dowson) contributed key
 events during the 2019 British Science Festival at Warwick (REF5a-4.3.4).

 A new strategic initiative for SLS within this REF period has been the appointment of three
 Honorary Industrial Professors, aligned with our research themes: Dr Smith, Chief Scientific
 Officer and Corporate Director of Strategy for Gene Therapy, Cobra Biologics (aligned with
 Biomedical Science & Biotechnology and Synthetic Biology); Dr Puddephat, Senior Director for
 Agro Discovery & Sustainability from PepsiCo (aligned with Plant and Crop); and Prof Snape,
 Global Safety, Health and Environment Director, Astra Zeneca (aligned with Environmental
 Bioscience). These honorary positions give SLS strategic insight to the commercial sector and
 their remit stimulates exchanges between academia and business, especially on our industry
 days, PGR training events and at guest lectures to our UG and PGT students. WISB has a network
 of industrial partners on its advisory board including Ingenza, ATUM, Green Biologics and
 Microsoft.

 By encouraging our researchers to seize opportunities to interact with stakeholders, we have
 developed a substantial portfolio of Impact Case Studies and are submitting 5 to REF2021. In
 parallel, we are supporting a much wider pipeline of projects with high potential for societal impact,
 including, for example, Prof Wellington’s work with Severn Trent Water using metagenomics to
 map bacterial load in treatment plant effluent.

 Research integrity is paramount in all we do. All academics complete the Epigeum course
 (REF5a-2.11) on research integrity, complemented for our students with workshops in research
 ethics, scientific data awareness and responsible innovation. SLS has a 100% record in submitting
 published manuscripts to the open access Warwick Research Archive Portal within 3 months and
 reviews all UKRI data management plans to ensure that there are clear and robust statements
 about secondary access and intellectual property protection (REF5a-2.10).

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The future for the School of Life Sciences
 Foster, Build, Train: three years into our strategy renewal implementation plan, we are achieving
 the three key objectives as outlined above. We are taking them forward by: opening the IBRB
 (£54M), further developing the School’s activities at the Wellesbourne Innovation Campus,
 recruiting new staff (13 further R&T academic posts, 2 teaching fellows and 6 support staff over
 the next 6 years), continuing to invest in our pump-priming fund and industry vouchers, making
 use of the Warwick Impact Fund (REF5a-2.7) and seeking further engagement with the national
 industrial strategy, building partnerships with Innovate UK and networks supported by the UK’s
 Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund. For example, to start redeveloping our unique resources at
 Wellesbourne Prof Napier is leading a task force to address “The Innovation Imperative for
 Horticulture”, linking our Crop Centre’s strengths to expertise across the university in engineering
 and rural economics. We will continue to work in partnership with the local community and seek
 charitable donations (e.g. Elizabeth Creak, £5M) to support focused, innovative scientific projects.

 Summary: Our strategy for the future is to ensure that our community grows stronger
 whilst remaining cohesive, productive and successful, sharing its diverse expertise to
 tackle the world’s sustainability challenges.

 2. People

 In developing the REF submission, the unit has operated within the University’s agreed REF 2021
 Code of Practice.

 Fostering a culture of excellence
 Crucial to the development of our research portfolio since the last REF has been the commitment
 of all staff to open, collegial and constructive discussion. Developing from the philosophy of Athena
 SWAN, we built a strong community at all staff levels and in which teaching and research are well
 integrated, everyone is valued, research excellence is fostered, interdisciplinarity is facilitated and
 impact is nourished. The success of this strategy is testified by our progression from Athena
 SWAN Bronze to Silver in 2018. The Athena SWAN team was led by Prof Bending and Dr
 Freeman (Director of Student Experience) with representation from across the School.
 Implementation of the Silver action plan is being led by Prof Boltze with the aim of achieving Gold
 status by 2022.

 Representation is important for all branches of our community and we have established, for
 example, a Post-doc Society which runs a focussed wellbeing forum, mentoring scheme, and
 training workshops in e.g. grant writing skills. Our technical staff are encouraged to promote their
 careers as professionals through the University’s Technician Commitment (REF5a-3.3). The
 Institution has established a transparent process for teaching staff to progress through to
 Professorial grades. SLS runs frequent community-building events for all staff and all postgraduate
 students such as annual away days, termly whole-School meetings, and a Christmas research
 showcase event.

 Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) strategy
 Since 2016, we have appointed 10 Assistant Professors to invest in early career talents with 50:50
 gender balanced recruitment. We enable all colleagues to achieve their potential by proactively
 encouraging individuals to invest in personal growth and identifying and supporting staff with
 annual promotions and merit award processes. Our EDI committee informs our good practice,


                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supports staff with taking up institutional training and personal development, continues to ensure
 that our Athena SWAN Silver action plan goals are being achieved and is laying the foundation
 for a Gold application (REF5a-3.4). Two SLS-led initiatives, first developed within our EDI
 committee, and then taken up by colleagues across the University and more widely have been (i)
 our outreach programme of staff wellbeing and development workshops that we now run jointly
 with Warwick Medical School, and (ii) our analysis of student attainment that examines not only
 final degree outcome but also how students progress across years, with a focus on
 intersectionality. Dr Young, lead for this analysis, has recently been appointed to the Royal Society
 of Biology’s Education and Science Policy Committee based on his expertise in this area.

 When compiling our REF2021 submission we have reflected upon and ensured that we have
 considered EDI appropriately, in line with the Institution approach and REF guidelines. We also
 gained wide community input and annual institutional feedback on our submission.

 Building a community: Academic staffing strategy
 A key tenet of our strategy is that all staff are valued. For all categories of staff at all levels of
 seniority we regard inclusivity and diversity as important criteria so that we have a healthy balance
 of gender, nationality, senior/mid/early career researchers and support staff to ensure a supportive
 and collegiate community. For example, the whole School discusses and develops priority areas
 for staff appointments with direction from our research themes and Teaching and Research
 Strategy Committees and oversight from the Chair of the Faculty of SEM. By consensus, we have
 focussed on strengthening neurobiology, antimicrobial resistance, environmental biology and
 computational biology. Another element of our strategy was to evenly balance appointments of
 early career and senior appointments. We achieved this aim by advertising posts across levels,
 enabling us to select the most talented applicants at the level appropriate to them.

 As part of our strategic drive to increase interdisciplinarity, SLS made four joint appointments with
 Mathematics (one professorial), a joint professorial post with Statistics, and two posts with
 Chemistry. An example is Prof Didelot (with Statistics) who replaced Prof Hollingsworth who is
 now Senior Group Leader at the Oxford Big Data Centre. Joint appointment academics are fully
 integrated into each department, hold office/lab space in both as well as proportionate teaching
 workloads in each department. All joint appointees have been successful in securing grant income
 (e.g. Prof Didelot’s Health Protection Research Unit, £2M funded by National Institute for Health
 Research), and producing world class outputs (e.g. Dr Stansfeld (Chemistry) has published in
 Cell, Science, and Nature). This interdisciplinary mix is further strengthened by the work of our
 Industrial Professors, as described earlier.

 Based on our proactive approach to renewing and growing our research community, we made key
 appointments that complement and extend the delivery of our interdisciplinary research agenda:
 appointments in statistical bioinformatics (Prof Didelot, joint with Statistics) and disease ecology
 and epidemiology (Dr Gorsich) filled vacancies left by career-led departures. Catalysed by the
 £10.5M BBSRC/EPSRC and Warwick funding of WISB (director Prof McCarthy) we strengthened
 the thematic area of Biotechnology and Synthetic Biology with 2 appointments, Prof Soyer and
 Prof Jaramillo. All new appointments have rapidly established themselves and achieved both
 funding and research successes. They have created many new collaborations within the School
 and brought disciplines together across the University. Highlights include Dr Hebenstreit who won
 a £2M EPSRC physics/life sciences interface award and Dr Asally and Prof Soyer who established
 successful spinoff companies (Cytecom and Humane Technologies).



                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Workload and staff development
 SLS developed a workload model in 2012 that enables research, teaching and administration to
 be balanced and flexed annually according to the proportion of active grant commitments,
 fellowship time and significant leadership roles. R&T staff have an average of 35% time allocated
 to research and impact activities with a core, protected baseline of 20% to ensure that no academic
 is prevented from generating new ideas for research grants. The model is dynamic and based on
 the preceding three years of income, rather than an annual snapshot. As part of our Athena SWAN
 Silver action plan, time for impact and outreach activities is included in staff workloads. This model
 also accounts for time spent on administrative duties for the School or University, such as Director
 of Research or Director of Admissions, roles which are rotated periodically. These roles constitute
 significant career development opportunities (duly acknowledged by the University’s recently
 redeveloped promotion criteria) and recruitment is by advertisement and selection among
 applicants. The workload model can also provide flexible arrangements for part-time staff and for
 staff that are returning from periods of leave. Our workload model is highly valued by staff since it
 enables them to plan their time effectively and feel valued for taking on roles that do not offer
 immediate personal benefit.

 Supporting people and careers
 Our staff support and development procedures are informed by our Silver Athena SWAN action
 plan. Recent successes include: introducing Deputy roles on senior leadership committees,
 opening our grant application hustings sessions to postdoctoral staff, and senior staff taking a
 proactive role in helping colleagues achieve promotion, for example by contributing to the
 University’s Gender Task Force (REF5a-3.4). We have engaged with the University’s work
 shadowing scheme for both academic and professional staff. All staff in the School of Life Sciences
 have annual Personal Development Reviews, a formal dialogue with a senior member of staff that
 helps to set goals and priorities for the coming year, reflect on past progress and identify where
 training would be valuable. For jointly appointed staff, PDRs are carried out with input from both
 heads of department to ensure that these colleagues are supported and developed across all the
 discipline areas that they work in. PDR reviewers for staff alternate over years in order for staff to
 benefit from a range of expertise and inputs covering research, teaching, impact and collegiality.
 Tangible benefits to our staff include 17 out 17 members staff who have successfully applied for
 promotion as a result of PDR discussions since 2017, and many staff receiving short periods of
 workload relief to achieve personal goals. PDR discussions have also empowered staff to give
 feedback and make recommendations on how the School is managed, resulting in much improved
 scores for SLS in the institutional PULSE survey.

 New staff support strategy
 The teaching workload of new staff is protected, such that in their first and second year of
 appointment, academic staff typically only have 1/3 or 2/3 of the teaching workload of established
 staff, depending on level. For new staff on probation (Assistant Professor or Fellowship holders)
 a workload from around 1/4 of a full teaching workload is gradually increased over a period of five
 years, or until they complete probation.

 Probationary staff have a review meeting with the HoS twice a year to discuss progress and
 training needs. They are also assigned a mentor who is normally a member of senior staff in their
 research theme, but they can choose who this is. Mentors provide support with research
 infrastructures and networking, grant applications and publications as well as help with developing
 good teaching practice, group management and outreach. New staff are given a generous start-
 up allowance as well as lab space with other relevant research groups so that they can share

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 equipment, ideas and expertise. We run a comprehensive induction programme to help them
 access all of the help that they will need to make rapid progress.

 Our support mechanisms have allowed new staff to make rapid progress in winning grant funding
 as PI, typically within 18 months of appointment (e.g. MRC and Diabetes UK to Dr Harrison; NERC
 and ERC to Prof Chen; Wellcome Trust Seed awards to Dr Crow and Dr Nelson; Wellcome Trust
 Henry Dale fellowship to Dr Fullam; a Newton Fund award to Dr Sagona). Five recent
 appointments have completed probation early (Drs Asally, Harrison, Panfilio, Huckstepp and
 Dyson) and three have successfully extended existing independent Fellowships (Drs Ntoukakis,
 Corre and Fullam). Additionally, both Drs Asally and Sagona have successfully established spin-
 out companies (Cytecom and Lucidix Biolabs) while on probation, and several of those named
 have been able to achieve their successes whilst also supporting young families.

 Sabbatical research leave
 SLS offers sabbaticals for established members of staff, especially those who have carried
 significant administrative loads, and workload relief is available to all staff (including part-time staff)
 at all stages of their careers. Our policy sets achievable goals for the sabbatical period, for
 example delivering key impact activities, and examples of sabbaticals which have generated
 significant successes include Prof Napier (Industrial funding, a Leverhulme Trust Research Project
 award and 15 publications), Dr Wall (MRC application and a 4* Neuron paper), Prof Dowson
 (~£2M funding). Recently, Prof David Roper was awarded a prestigious $200k Schaefer Research
 Scholar Award to spend 2020-21 carrying out infection research at Columbia University.

 Development as researchers
 SLS operates a comprehensive pre-submission peer review and support system for funding
 applications. All staff applying for UKRI and other substantive research grants present a short (5
 minute) pitch at open access husting sessions, 2-3 months pre-deadline. Constructive feedback
 is given with plenty of time for improvements. The Director of Research chairs a review panel 2-3
 weeks pre-deadline, with each applicant given a full review from internal referees and
 consultations on financial plans with time to polish their application.

 SLS recognises the importance of being able to generate pilot data suitable for new grant
 applications and our Pump-Priming Fund (PPF) committee allocates up to £10K to promising ideas
 from all staff and PDRAs. PPF also offers industry vouchers to encourage links with non-academic
 organisations (which must contribute equally) and to promote our expertise in the regional
 bioeconomy. PPF has supported 120 projects (including 30 female and 23 ECR applicants) since
 Jan 2014, leading to 10-12 grant submissions every year and 15 external research awards from
 UKRI, Wellcome and Leverhulme Trusts. A total value of £8.7M since Jan 2014 is directly
 attributable to this seed funding. PPF also supports career progression, helped more senior staff
 establish new techniques and provides a timely resource for preliminary high risk-high reward
 experiments. For example, in the first years of her appointment, Dr Harrison won an MRC
 responsive mode grant after support from the PPF, and Prof Napier won a Leverhulme Trust award
 to start a project using DNA aptamers, a technique new to SLS.

 Training: Development as professionals
 We engage fully with the UK Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and
 Warwick offers a wide range of training to staff through the Academic Development Centre
 (including professional skills and training to support mentoring such as student wellbeing and
 mental health) and from the Research and Impact Services group (R&IS; including grant writing
 skills) (REF5a-3.3, 1.7). Every year, 2 established members of staff are encouraged to take the

                                                                                                     Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Warwick Leadership Programme (WLP), which enables academic staff from across all university
 departments to develop in or towards senior leadership roles. SLS runs its own programme of
 targeted training, for example a recent ‘bootcamp’ for grant applicants preparing their Je-S
 summary sections. We support staff to train for and participate in a wide variety of other activities
 such as industry days, public engagement events and outreach (described in Section 4). Similarly,
 we engage with Technician Commitment (REF5a-3.3, 4.3.2), running personal and professional
 development sessions and we have led in the institution by recruiting to higher grade technical job
 roles (e.g. senior experimental officer) and establishing a clear promotions pipeline.

 Flexible working and care-for-careers
 A strong feature of our Athena SWAN action plan is that we have implemented and promoted a
 policy of using SLS funds to extend the employment contracts of researchers who have a period
 of maternity, paternity or long-term ill health leave, to ensure that their research project and career
 is not disadvantaged. We provide HR and careers advice to researchers employed on fixed term
 contracts to ensure that they can consider, well in advance, what opportunities are available to
 them, including maximising redeployment opportunities to help retain talent. All staff may make
 arrangements for flexible working, for example four-day working weeks for some parents with
 school-aged children or flexible/staggered hours for those returning from illness and an increasing
 recognition that managed working from home can be highly productive. Responsibilities for
 supervision of students during such breaks will be taken on by the second supervisor. If time away
 has led to a gap in research project funding, our pump priming fund can help restart
 experimentation. These arrangements have improved retention of staff and overall job satisfaction,
 as evidenced by our PULSE survey.

 Development of research-only staff
 Research-only post-doctoral scientists benefit from the same opportunities and support structures
 available to R&T staff. We support many successful fellowship applications, thanks to our robust
 research governance structure. As a result, we have made SLS an attractive destination for
 excellent research fellows and provide bespoke support to applicants. Dr Alberti won a
 Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellowship in 2018 with PPF support, and in 2020 Dr Carpenter
 and Dr Connolly were successful in securing UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships. Carpenter’s
 fellowship followed his earlier appointment to a WISB Career Development Fellowship which was
 designed to prepare appointees for their independent research career. Our RSDO, Dr Kimura
 assists internal/external early fellowship applicants, arranges meetings and visits, provides
 strategic planning, consultations and reviews their proposals. For example, SLS supported Dr
 Kubes as a successful Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowship applicant from the Czech Republic in
 2018. We actively encourage ECRs to engage with research supervision and to contribute to our
 teaching and outreach activities. Through careful mentoring and support, we have been successful
 in translating fellowships into permanent R&T posts for 5 researchers over the REF period Drs
 Fullam, Christie-Oleza, Kistler, Sagona, Ntoukakis).

 Supporting research student success
 We have a vibrant community of 150 PGR students, the majority associated with our three highly
 successful interdisciplinary doctoral training programmes:

       BBSRC-funded Midlands Integrative Biosciences Training Partnership (MIBTP, led by SLS
        (Drs Ntoukakis and Penman) and recently renewed from 2019-2024 in partnership with
        Leicester, Birmingham, Aston and Harper Adams). The second largest BBSRC DTP, it
        hosts 68 students at UoW, 46 of which in SLS.


                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Synthetic Biology CDT (in partnership with Bristol and Oxford, 11 UoW, 7 SLS)
       The Central England NERC Training Alliance (CENTA, in partnership with Birmingham,
        Leicester, Loughborough and the OU: 11 UoW, 7 SLS). CENTA was renewed in 2018 with
        a significant increase the Midlands PhD allocation by 50% for 5 years.
       The MRC DTP led by the Medical School (6 SLS).

 Funding for additional PhD students also comes from BBSRC CASE studentships, an industrial
 CDT led by Waitrose (currently 3 SLS students), the Institutional Chancellor’s International
 Scholarship scheme, Warwick Chancellor’s Partnership Research Studentship which enables
 funding joint with a non-University partner, by industry (e.g. Astra Zeneca, GSK), charitable
 bodies, international scholarships (e.g. Commonwealth Scholarships and China Scholarship
 Scheme) and the EU, with a small number of self-funded students.

 PGR governance is managed by the SLS PGR Management Committee (established in 2017),
 chaired by the Director and Associate Director of Postgraduate Research and attended by DTP
 directors, the Director of Education, PhD students and professional PGR administrative staff. SLS
 runs a programme of mandatory annual training sessions for all PGR supervisors to ensure that
 they are well-equipped to support the scientific and developmental needs of their research
 students. All students have two supervisors, which is of particular benefit for early career stage
 supervisors.

 Our PhD students are integrated into well-supported, active research groups providing an
 excellent research experience, bespoke training and the chance to understand the expectations
 of a career in academic science. In addition to the structured training programmes associated with
 each DTP, the School has a programme of ‘Masterclass’ training workshops delivered by
 academics, R&IS or Warwick Ventures on specific research techniques, grant and paper writing,
 generation of impact and preparation of fellowship application etc. Recent graduates have moved
 to postdoctoral positions in other prestigious institutions including Cambridge, York, Cancer
 Research UK, Kew Gardens, Cornell, and the University of California. One of our PhD students,
 Dr Puxty, moved on to a post-doc position in the US before coming back very recently to Warwick
 as an Assistant Professor appointment after winning a NERC personal fellowship. Many PhD
 graduates have moved onto research careers in industry (e.g. Unilever, Johnson and Johnson,
 Syngenta) and careers in regulation and policy (e.g. Environment Agency, UKRI).

 All PGR students gain from professional training opportunities offered and organised through
 Warwick Skills Forge and the chance to work with students across departments. For example, our
 UG and PGR students compete in the interdisciplinary iGEM International team competition every
 year. Many of our DTPs also give students the chance to experience a non-academic environment,
 for example the BBSRC Professional Internships for PhD Students (PIPS) within MIBTP. This has
 helped recent graduates to take up positions in industry, for example at Perfectus Biomed, and
 policy in positions at BBSRC and Defra. Career development for PGR students is also supported
 by the University’s Institute of Advanced Study, which supports international Rutherford
 Fellowships, regional internships, KTPs and a comprehensive programme of business training run
 in collaboration with Warwick Innovations (REF5a-2.8), enabling PGR students to gain experience
 in entrepreneurship.

 Visiting scientists and international exchanges
 The School welcomes around 25 visiting researchers per year, from PGR to Professors, from a
 few days or up to a year, who come to share facilities and expertise. They enjoy all the benefits


                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 accorded SLS staff and PGRs for the duration of their stay. Induction meetings are held with our
 Technical Lab Manager group and specialist technical and health and safety skills must be passed,
 ensuring that all work is carried out safely. We ensure that visitors are able to integrate well into
 our community via our research themes. Visits have helped to increase our interactions with
 stakeholders and have led to new grants and papers. For example, a collaboration between SLS
 and Glasgow on cell type responses to salinity in plants was driven by a PhD student from each
 institute and has led to a paper submitted to PNAS. All of these opportunities extend both our
 research scope and the global reach of our work.

 In summary, our research community, from undergraduates and postdocs to technical
 staff, researchers and academics, thrives because of the practical and professional
 environment that we provide. We are constantly improving our support and will continue
 to promote excellence with collegiality - for all of our students, staff and stakeholders.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research funding: strategies for fostering research and building income
 The success of our current strategy is testified by an overall research income of £81M across the
 REF period, with awards of £14.6M in 2020 alone, indicating a strong income pipeline. Income per
 academic FTE averaged £204K per annum. Significant research awards since in the REF period,
 by Research Theme, include:
 Biomedical Sciences
     Nokes, Wellcome Trust - COVID-19 Intervention modelling for East Africa and improved
       respiratory virus intervention strategies, total awards £3.9M and Impact Case Study.
     Keeling, UKRI - COVID Modelling Consortium: quantitative epidemiological predictions in
       response to an evolving pandemic, total awards £771k
     Nokes, NIHR – Global health research group on application of genomics and modelling to
       control of viral pathogens in East Africa £1.9M
     Didelot, NIHR – Health Protection Research Unit in Genomics and Enabling Data £2M
     Ted Pridgeon Chair in Neurosciences awarded to Prof Dale, which enabled the
       development of the Biosensors Impact Case Study. Dale has won additional MRC
       awards totalling £1.6M
     Dale, MRC – Structure and biophysical basis of Connexin 26 channel mediated disease
       £1.1M
     Koentges, MRC – Connexin 26 mediated breathing control by the healthy and obese brain
       £1.3M
     Fullam, Wellcome Trust Sir Henry Dale Fellowship - Understanding the role of sugar
       transporters in Mycobacterium Tb; total awarded (including renewal) £1.5M – the initial
       fellowship award was renewed in 2019
     Dowson, MRC – Mechanism of understanding of cell wall biosynthesis £1.1M

 Biotechnology and Synthetic Biology
      Soyer, BBSRC LOLA – Engineering synthetic microbiological communities for biomethane
        production £773K, and evolution of metabolic interactions using synthetic microbiological
        communities £751K.
      Hebenstreit, BBSRC – Genomic scaling of transcriptional noise £766K
      McCarthy, BBSRC – Warwick Interdisciplinary Synthetic Biology Centre £7.6M (total award
        circa £12M) and extension £2M
      Hebenstreit, UKRI – Transcription and nuclear phase transitions £923K


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Soyer, Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation, Symbiosis in aquatic systems investigator
        award - Understanding interplay between microbial interactions and spatial organisation
        £1.7M
       Jaramillo, ERC - General-Purpose Programmable Evolution Machine on a Chip £557K

 Environmental Biosciences
     Scanlan, European Research Council - Cyanophage inhibition of oceanic CO2 fixation.
        ERC-AdG £2.6M
     Chen, ERC – Ecophysiology of membrane lipid remodelling in marine bacteria £1.4M
     Wellington, BBSRC – Phosphor cycling in the soil microbe plant continuum of agri
        ecosystems £669K, and the farm environment as an overlooked reservoir of
        Mycobacterium bovis £780K
     Bending, BBSRC – Roots of decline? - Assembly and function of the rhizosphere
        microbiome in relation to yield decline £736K

 Plant and Crop Science
     Allender and Barker, Defra - Genetic Resources Unit £1.9M. This collection has been used
        by over 40 seed companies and 200 research groups internationally and supports the
        Vegetable Genetic Improvement Network (VeGIN) £878K; included in our Impact Case
        Study.
     Allaby, NERC – Archaeogenomics of Sorghum domestication and adaption £633K. Has
        resulted in outputs in Science and Nature Plants.
     Holub, BBSRC – Developing genetics and genomics for sustainable use of resistance to
        white rot in oil seed mustard £1.2M
     Collier, AHDB – Sceptre plus; £1.2M. Disease, pest and weed problems in fresh produce
        and ornamental crops, and Impact Case Study.
     Elizabeth Creak Trust Chair in food security awarded to Prof Grant
     Donations totalling around £1.4M from the Elizabeth Creak Trust and the Brewster family
        for the Horticulture Technology Centre for Vegetable Improvement
     Grant, BBSRC - Xanthomonas plant diseases: mitigating existing, emerging and future
        threats to UK agriculture £1.2M
     Chandler, AHDB - Application and Management of Biopesticides for Efficacy and Reliability
        (AMBER) £1.2M

 Strategies for generating research income
 We have created a supportive environment around research income, where colleagues
 understand the importance of helping each other to create a strong pipeline of ideas. Our
 collegiality ensures ideas are strengthened to maximise grant success rates and outputs.
 Initiatives include School away days, mentoring junior staff, hustings and sandpits to generate and
 strengthen fundable concepts, internal peer review of proposals to replicate funder assessment
 processes, grant writing boot camps and workshops with funders to ensure that we learn about
 their expectations. We strongly encourage membership of UKRI grant assessment committees:
 currently 7 SLS academics sit on various UKRI research council Committees, and they in turn
 mentor staff in grant writing skills.

 During the REF period we have provided significant match funding to help secure large external
 awards. Examples include £1.2M match funding towards the WISB programme award, 50%
 funding for our most recent ALERT-funded ion mobility mass spectrometer, and 1:1 matching of
 UKRI doctoral training partnership awards including the BBSRC MIBTP and NERC CENTA DTPs.
 Dale’s MRC Discovery award was matched with a new lectureship and research budget.

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Contributing to the University’s Strategy of Excellence with Purpose (REF5a-2.1), our research
 strategy for 2017-2027, includes a 30% growth in academic numbers over 10 years. New posts
 will be in strategically important areas such as neuroscience, food security, environmental
 microbiology, infection biology, antibiotic resistance, synthetic and industrial biotechnology, with a
 focus on interdisciplinarity. This growth underpins our strategy to increase research income,
 creating depth and extend networks of excellence to lay the foundations for longer and larger grant
 applications.    Our Research Strategy and Research Management committees include
 representatives from each theme, so that we are ready to seize opportunities when strategic calls
 arise.

 Research income generation is linked to our human resources strategy and our staff development
 processes (annual review, promotion board, reward and recognition reviews). We discuss
 research income plans as part of cascading the School’s strategy into individual work plans. Our
 recruitment strategy is underpinned by an expectation of healthy research income, and we support
 our recruits to help them realise success and generate this income.

 We recognise the importance of multidisciplinarity and have actively sought opportunities for joint
 academic appointments. We have 6 such appointments, involving Mathematics, Chemistry and
 Statistics. SLS researchers are instrumental in our strongly interdisciplinary research centres
 (WCC, WCIBB, WISB, WAMIC, WESIC, SBIDER) which bring together key academics from many
 departments across the University to focus on contemporary challenges. Organically grown
 collaborations can quickly take advantage of new funding calls as well as respond to calls for
 information that can shape funding opportunities. Examples of large research awards arising from
 such interactions include Hebenstreit’s EPSRC funded work on transcriptional stochasticity with
 colleagues from Physics (Kantsler and Ball) and WISB having significant inputs from Chemistry
 (Challis) and Engineering (Bates). Prof Soyer’s Bioelectricity Impact Accelerator Innovation Hub,
 BEE, is funded by BBSRC and is jointly steered by industry.

 Our multidisciplinary Centres have also been particularly successful in building links with industry.
 WISB has generated an industrial network comprising 16 companies including GSK, BASF,
 Croda, Microsoft Research and Syngenta. WCC, the UK Vegetable GeneBank and its VeGIN
 networks draw all the major international crop breeding companies to their annual industrial
 stakeholder meetings. Innovate UK supports commercialisation of our research, e.g. Lillywhite
 (The Insectrial Revolution Project; £358K) and Asally (Rapid, portable, live bacterial cell detector
 ICURe; £107K). We continue to encourage multidisciplinary partnerships and to build on our
 successes.

 Local support for income generators
 In addition to our pump priming fund, our researchers have access to catalyst funds from the
 University, such as the Research Development Fund (RDF). For knowledge transfer to the
 bioeconomy, the Warwick Impact Fund (REF5a-2.7) and UKRI Impact Acceleration Accounts have
 helped to move several projects along the Technical Readiness Level scale including, for instance,
 our Impact Case Studies “Integrated Pest Management in horticultural crops”, and “Genetic
 improvement of vegetable crops”.

 Our RSDO provides grant improvement workshops and engages with support structures across
 the university. R&IS prepare application budgets and SLS provides post-award financial
 administration. We deliberately recruited an RSDO who has been a postdoctoral researcher to
 ensure that we could provide informed and constructive advice. The RSDO also monitors

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Researchfish completion, collates data for strategic initiatives, and supports early career
 researchers to succeed. R&IS staff attend our Research Strategy and Research Management
 meetings to ensure that they are part of our developing strategy.

 Excellent facilities and technical expertise
 The School’s research strategy is enabled by our excellent research facilities and we provide
 researchers with core technical, IT and laboratory support facilities which include media
 preparation and waste management as well as supported specialist facilities such as our genomics
 centre, imaging suite, horticulture services, and the new Elizabeth Creak Horticulture Technology
 Centre. We have an excellent range of managed core communal equipment, including
 ultracentrifuges, containment and tissue culture facilities, cryostores and the WISB advanced
 technology platforms.

 The University’s strategy has led to the establishment of Research Technology Platforms (RTPs)
 which are open access, TRAC-costed facilities offering high-end instrumentation with support and
 training from specialist academics. Four RTPs are based in SLS: Proteomics, Dr Jones; Advanced
 Bioimaging, Dr Smith; small animal facility, Prof Frenguelli; Bioinformatics, Dr Ott (joint with
 Warwick Medical School). The School is implementing the Technician Commitment and investing
 in the continuing development of experienced technical support staff.

 Our SLS Technical Assurance Manager works closely with the University Biosafety Officer to
 provide specialist advice and support for e.g. biohazard containment, including our Containment
 Level 3 labs, and radioisotope labs. Every laboratory has a technical manager who is involved
 with induction of new researchers, instrument maintenance and workplace good practice. This
 frees research staff to focus on their projects.

 Support for data management, access and archiving
 The library and IT services run comprehensive data storage and archiving facilities, including the
 WRAP open access portal, high-performance clusters, cyber security, and compliance with data
 protection legislation. Our SLS IT team add local support for our scientific equipment and curation
 of large datasets such as from ‘omics and imaging.

 Strategic support for research and impact
 In line with the University’s strategy for growth in STEM, the SLS strategy will see the School grow
 to 78 research active academic FTEs by 2025. Over the REF period the University also approved
 significant match funding investment in SLS researchers, including 5 four-year WISB Research
 Career Development Fellowships (£1M) and three WISB PhD studentships (£167K each). The
 University has also made significant investment in four doctoral training partnerships, namely
 MIBTP2020-2025, CENTA, SynBio CTP and the Waitrose CTP, adding a total of around 150
 matched studentships.

 Amongst the DTPs we have hosted 15 CASE studentships and ensured that all MIBTP students
 gain purposeful Professional Internships (PIPS), giving us visibility and traction with industry. We
 have dedicated Impact Managers who manage our impact case portfolio, collect vital documentary
 evidence of impact and oversee our IAA and FTMA awards. This superb infrastructure not only
 benefits SLS researchers, but also is highly attractive to an increasing number of new investigators
 and fellowship award holders.




                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Operational infrastructure supporting research and impact
 The School operates across two campuses, Gibbet Hill and Wellesbourne. Both are well equipped
 with research labs and facilities (inc. stores, media prep, workshop, sterilisation and waste
 streaming), and are supported by our technical teams. Our policy is to share equipment and work
 as a community, which helps us to maximise research intensity, promote equity and ensure best
 use of our footprint.
 Specialist research facilities include:
      Containment level 2 and 3 microbiology labs. A new modular £1.5M CL3 laboratory suite
        will be installed at Gibbet Hill in the Summer of 2021
      Primary tissue culture facilities
      The WISB technology hub incorporating £3.2 million equipment including flow cytometry,
        advanced microscopy and robotics
      A genomics hub providing qPCR and next generation sequencing
      Field, glasshouse, quarantine and polytunnel facilities. This includes irrigation, farm
        machinery and pesticide handling facilities supported by professional horticultural staff. We
        also support commercial crop trials (e.g. Corteva).
      The Innovate UK CHAP-funded demonstration £0.5M ETFE greenhouse. The first natural-
        light demonstration facility in the UK
      The Phytobiology Facility containing 13 glasshouse compartments, a 500 m2 controlled
        environment hall and associated lab, containment and preparation areas
      The new £1.75M Horticultural Technology Centre, dedicated to gene editing improvement
        of vegetable crops.
      Three confocal microscopes (additional to the Advanced Bioimaging RTP)
      Proteomics RTP
      Advanced Bioimaging RTP
      Biomedical Services (small animal facility) RTP
      Scientific Computing RTP and the new Bioinformatics RTP with local bioinformatics
        servers supporting the latest high-throughput technologies, analysis of large datasets and
        digital simulations.

 The Gibbet Hill Campus Development Group involves SLS, WMS, the Estates Office and a
 recently appointed planning professional and is chaired by the Faculty Chair. As part of the
 University’s STEM grand challenge (REF5a-4.2), it is actively developing plans for the Gibbet Hill
 Campus to ensure that its built environment continues to support the ambitious growth plans of
 both schools, and matches modern quality expectations of both students and incoming research
 staff to match conditions in IBRB. The £54M IBRB will accommodate around 300 staff and PhD
 students, a 400-seat lecture theatre and space for formal and informal meetings and events.
 Our Wellesbourne Campus offers an enviable range of facilities for plant and crop research
 including fully supported field, glass and controlled environment growing spaces. Supporting
 these are an insect rearing unit as well as excellent primary, secondary and plant pathology labs.
 The University is developing Wellesbourne as an innovation campus through the Wellesbourne
 Development and Investment group, with WCC as a focus for stakeholders from the commercial
 agriculture community. We have a strategic plan for which we are seeking funding that will see a
 fusion of horticultural science, advanced manufacturing (Warwick Manufacturing Group) and
 entrepreneurship (Warwick Business School) to support growing competitiveness in UK
 horticulture.

 Wellesbourne also hosts the UK Vegetable Gene Bank with its unique collection of vegetable crop
 genetic diversity. Funded by Defra, it is an invaluable resource for vegetable improvement

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 worldwide, recognised in two Impact Case Studies. Wellesbourne also collects and holds long-
 term data sets on weather and aerial fly trap data, mineral-depleted fields with long term nutrient
 data, a quarantine field for pathology and a negative pressure glasshouse for pathogen and pest
 containment.

 Our support infrastructure delivers a complete service for researchers and studentship holders
 across both campuses. We also arrange training opportunities with all the central university teams.
 For example, Warwick Ventures Ltd (Warwick Innovations) holds surgeries every week and has
 supported 6 start-ups and spin-outs since 2014, and we have joined Ximbio, the global, non-profit
 life scientific research reagents partnership to ensure that we capitalise on the reagents we
 develop.

 Summary: By providing excellent facilities, a fully supportive infrastructure and
 championing technical expertise, our research ideas flourish, generate income and
 generate a legacy for society.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Strategic partnerships with BBSRC and policy development
 The University of Warwick is one of only 12 BBSRC strategic partners, based on SLS’s profile as
 a leader in research areas of Food Security and Industrial Biotechnology. SLS contributes
 expertise to four BBSRC responsive mode committees with over 10 pool and core members over
 the REF period (7 current). For example, Dr Gifford sat on the last three ALERT panels, and is
 currently on Committee B and the sLoLa panel. Dr Jones is on the ALERT2020 panel, Profs Chen
 and Roper on Committee B and D, respectively. Prof Green chaired Committee A before moving
 on to Council and she also served on the BBSRC animal welfare network committee. For NERC,
 Prof Wellington has served on the Environment and Human Health panel, and Prof Scanlan on
 the Biomolecular Analysis Facility Committee. Prof Dowson sat on the MRC immunity and
 Infection Board and Prof Wellington the Antimicrobial Resistance Strategy Steering Group. Prof
 Bending has served on 10 NERC and BBSRC panels, including as chair for the NERC Emerging
 risks of chemicals in the environment panel in 2018. Prof Grant sits on the UKRI Bacterial
 Diseases of Plants co-ordination committee.

 Fostering leadership in international partnerships and research networks
 The UK Vegetable GeneBank at the Wellesbourne Campus is part of an international research
 initiative in food security to curate and distribute rare and valuable horticultural germplasm. It has
 sent seeds to over 40 plant breeding companies and over 200 academic researchers across the
 globe. SBIDER has large number of partnerships with international governments and NGOs. Prof
 Nokes is the principal investigator at KEMRI, the Wellcome Trust Medical Research Institute in
 Kenya, where he heads the virus epidemiology and control research group, which is at the frontline
 of national COVID-19 control. SBIDER also has extensive links with international government (US
 Department of Agriculture, National Institutes of Health, China CDC, Philippines Bureau of Animal
 Industry, Kenya Ministry of Agriculture and Kenya Medical Research Institute, DRC Ministry of
 Health) and non-governmental organisations (World Health Organisation, Food and Agriculture
 Organisation of the United Nations, World Organisation for Animal Health, EuFMD, International
 Livestock Research Institute). The School is an active member of the Warwick Brazil Partnership
 SPRINT (FAPESP-Warwick Joint Fund) and a major initiative was the establishment of a
 Transatlantic Synthetic Biology Research Triangle involving Warwick, São Paulo and Boston
 University, USA. Academics enjoy partnerships with CUSP (New York); Singapore (NTU and


                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 NUS); the FioCruz Institutes in Brazil (Recife and Curitiba); the University of São Paulo, Brazil;
 Ethiopia, Kenya Agricultural Research Institute, Africa; Monash University, Melbourne; Boston
 University and Harvard, Boston, USA, and SLS established a joint Virtual Laboratory with
 Northwest Agriculture and Forestry University (NWAFU), China in plant and crop sciences in 2019.
 In 2019/20 Dr Schaefer was part of the largest Arctic research expeditions ever planned with the
 German research ship RV Polarstern. Prof Allaby collaborates with The Smithsonian (USA) on the
 archaeobotanical evidence of crop domestication pathways, leading to recent publications in
 Science and Nature Plants.

 Fostering national partnerships
 In our Biomedical Sciences theme, Prof Keeling, Drs Tildesley and Dyson currently advise SAGE
 on COVID-19, sit on the Department for Health’s Scientific Pandemic Influenza advisory group
 and the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation, as well as the BBSRC Animal Disease
 Working Group; Dr Khan has served on the panel of experts for the National Institute for Health
 and Care Excellence. In the Crop and Plant Science theme, Prof Collier chairs the EU Insecticide
 Resistance Advisory Committee; Prof Walsh is President of the International Working Group for
 Legume and Vegetable Viruses. In the Environmental Biosciences theme, Prof Bending sat on the
 UK Government's Expert Committee on Pesticides until 2019. Prof Napier and Dr Barker serve on
 Innovate UK review panels and Dr Barker has served on the Innovate UK Steering Committee.

 Building leadership across the academic community
 In addition to leading collegial activities for national funding agencies, academic staff contribute
 expertise to specialist community activities. Dr Smith sits on the World-wide Protein Data Bank
 Scientific Advisory Board and the EMBL-EBI Molecular and Cellular Cluster Scientific Advisory
 Board. Dr Jones serves on the advisory board for IntACT and Complex Data Portal at The
 European Bioinformatics Institute, Dr Corre serves on the Royal Society’s Newton International
 Exchanges Committee, Dr Purdy has served on Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowship selection
 panels, Prof McCarthy has represented the University on the iCREA Fellowships Committee in
 Catalonia and the Synthetic Biology Institute SAB, Tartu, Estonia, and Prof Collier is a member of
 the Insecticide Resistance Action Group (IRAG). Prof Cameron is on the British Crystallographic
 Association Committee, Drs Smith, Fullam and Prof Gutierrez-Marcos have served on committees
 of the Biochemical Society, Profs Thomas and Collier on Royal Horticultural Society Committees,
 Prof Gutierrez-Marcos on the Genetics Society, Dr Courtenay on a Marie Curie ITN Advisory
 Board and Profs Napier, Dowson, Easton and Collier on the strategy Board of the charitable
 Medical and Life Sciences Research Fund. Dr Khan sits on the NICE panel as an invited expert
 and also acts as an Executive Director of Silence Therapeutics plc, a company exploiting RNAi
 technologies as therapies. Prof Grant serves on the UK Plant Sciences Federation Executive
 Committee and was on the GARNet Steering Committee.

 Research-led collaborations building partnerships with commerce
 The School has contracts with 64 diverse funding organisations in addition to UKRI; 33 from
 outside the UK. Partners include charities, other national funding agencies including the industry-
 led levy board AHDB, and businesses in addition to the links with commercial and research
 agencies attracted to our RTPs. Over the REF period 42 UKRI awards have involved industrial
 partnerships, including LINK awards, IPAs, strategic initiatives and Research Club initiative
 awards.

 SLS developed and leads (Drs Ntoukakis & Penman) the highly successful doctoral training
 partnership MIBTP. MIBTP continues to grow with a greater number of industry-linked
 studentships annually and, at its successful renewal in 2019 was awarded 245 studentships over

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 5 years. In addition, the University of Aston and Harper Adams University became partners
 alongside Birmingham and Leicester. Similarly, Prof Scanlan developed CENTA which is a
 consortium of Universities and research institutes funded by NERC. SynBIo CDT was developed
 by Prof Soyer in WISB. The Waitrose-led CDT led by Prof Collier trains students in key skills in
 areas of horticulture relevant to their business model. All these energetic training networks foment
 regional collaboration. Recent research-led collaborations with the regional bioeconomy include
 15 CASE studentships and 4 Warwick Collaborative Postgraduate Studentships.

 All our research themes have wide collaborative networks. Highlights by Theme include:

 Biomedical Science: Dr Nokes has a KEMRI/Wellcome Trust NIHR Global Health Trust award
 (£1.9M); Prof Dowson won GCRF funding for developing the next generation of beta-lactamase
 inhibitors with the University of Cape Town (South Africa), the development and validation of
 assays and reagents to exploit the final steps of peptidoglycan synthesis with AstraZeneca (USA)
 in a LINK award, and runs the UK-China hub for antibiotic discoveries (£0.5M); Dr Courtenay runs
 field trials of synthetic sandfly sex pheromone to reduce human visceral leishmaniasis
 transmission (£0.75M) with Brazilian partners WT STA; Dr Rock won £0.4M from the Gates
 Foundation for human African trypanosomiasis modelling for an international team to inform
 national control programmes. Prof Hollingsworth arranged the Non-Transmissible Diseases
 modelling project for the Gates Foundation.

 Biotechnology and Synthetic Biology: Prof Jaramillo collaborates across Europe on
 EVOPROG, a programmable evolution machine on a chip (£0.56M) and on PROMYS:
 Programming synthetic networks for bio-production of value chemicals (£0.54M) which has
 partners in Spain, Denmark, Netherlands, Germany and Switzerland; Prof Roper won support from
 Basilea Pharmaceuticals (Switzerland) for work on the biochemistry of peptidoglycan precursors,
 and a BBSRC LINK award for inhibitor discovery in peptidoglycan biosynthesis (Merck, USA).

 Environmental Sciences: Prof Wellington won £0.4M for developing fast assays for pathogen
 identification and characterisation with the University of Lyon (France); Prof Bending works with
 Velcourt Farms on “Roots of decline?” which studies rhizosphere microbiome in relation to yield
 decline (£0.74M); Prof Collier runs the SCEPTRE Plus project for AHDB (£1.2M) which
 coordinates applied research on high priority disease, pest and weed problems in fresh UK
 produce.

 Crop and Plant Sciences: Dr Jackson has funding with partners in Brazil (Agronomy Institute/São
 Paulo Agribusiness Technology Agency (APTA), the USA (University of Wisconsin) with a
 BBSRC-NSF award, and with Prof Hong at the Research Centre for Plant RNA Signaling,
 Hangzhou Normal University in China, with whom he has set up a joint laboratory at Hangzhou
 for exploiting viral vectors in crop improvement. Dr Barker is PI on the VeGIN project (£878K);
 Prof Napier works with Corteva Bioscience on next-generation auxins (Indianapolis, USA, £0.9M).
 In 2019 Warwick became an active member of the UK’s Crop Health and Protection (CHAP)
 consortium which was established under Innovate UK’s Agritech catalyst initiative. CHAP has
 constructed an Innovate UK-funded novel ETFE greenhouse (£0.5M) at Wellesbourne.

 Building local partnerships
 We have strong partnerships with the Coventry University, University Hospital Coventry and
 Warwickshire, and AHDB, the UK levy board, which helps maximise the reach of our work at local
 and national levels and benefit people in our communities. Every year we host multiple work
 experience placement students from local schools, with a particular focus on widening

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 participation (WP) students from disadvantaged backgrounds. Prof Moffat has worked nationally
 with the Sutton Trust Summer school program, engaging 50 students in biomedical and health
 related sciences in two years. He has also worked with the regional Engineering Development
 Trust, running the only summer life sciences program in their portfolio, hosting 30-50 students per
 annum. We also work locally with the University’s own Warwick Scholars scheme to provide
 activities and support for these pupils in higher education applications.

 Fostering equipment and facility collaborations to promote knowledge exchange
 The Warwick RTP model (REF5a-4.3) is specifically designed to be accessible to researchers
 from other institutions and from industry, and the University has set up Warwick Scientific Services
 (WSS) to permit service-driven use of both RTP equipment and other advanced facilities within
 SLS. WSS has pre-prepared contracts and pricing schedules to make it quick and easy for external
 users to arrange access. Industrial partners are also encouraged to exploit recognised
 collaborative research models such as LINK awards (as for Roper, noted above), Industrial
 Partnership Awards (Gutierrez-Marcos and others), CASE studentships and our industry
 vouchers. For academic collaborators we operate a light-touch visitor process for use of our
 instrumentation, with appropriate help and guidance from our facility managers.
 Dr Smith leads Warwick’s contribution to the Midlands Regional Cryo-EM Facility, the result of a
 successful £3.7M bid to MRC by Leicester, Warwick, Birmingham and Nottingham, and our
 structural biologists are part of the user community at specialised equipment facilities such as
 offered by Instruct-ERIC, the Membrane Protein Laboratory and DIAMOND at Harwell. Some of
 our BBSRC Flexible Talent Mobility Awards, Innovation Fellowships and KTPs share expertise
 with companies and return knowledge to our academic community. For example, SLS has had 2
 KTPs with Elsoms Seeds Ltd, and FTMA awards with Domainex, Xerion (drug discovery) and
 LifeArc (high-throughput drug candidate screens).

 Generating funding for collaborative facilities
 SLS proactively draws expertise from non-UoA5 departments within Warwick. Highlights include
 leadership in the development of the multidisciplinary WISB (Prof McCarthy), and the associated
 SynBio DTP which is joint with Oxford and Bristol. Dr Smith led a successful ALERT14 bid for
 cryo-electron microscopy at Warwick. Dr Jones led the successful ALERT19 bid for new mass
 spectrometry instrumentation for proteomics. SLS academics have led or co-led large successful
 bids, e.g. to BBSRC NIBB (Soyer), Gates Foundation (Keeling, Hollingsworth), European
 Commission Horizon 2020 (Wellington), Newton Fund (Sagona, P Schafer), Royal Society GCRF
 (Grant), EPSRC Building Collaboration at the Physics of Life Interface (Hebenstreit), NIHR HPRU
 (Didelot).

 Research leadership at the national level – training communities
 We have a huge range of collaborations that engage with key research users and diverse
 audiences. Our research also translates into local and national impact over a broad sphere of
 activities. Notable examples include: Prof Leppard, Prof Easton and Prof Dimmock published the
 essential and popular university textbook “Introduction to Modern Virology”. Prof Green was
 awarded an OBE (2017) for her services to the health and welfare of farmed livestock. Prof Collier
 was awarded the Veitch Medal by the Royal Horticultural Society for outstanding contributions to
 the advancement of the science and practice of horticulture. We have academics on 35
 committees or advisory boards for national funding agencies, and 28 academics on journal
 editorial boards, leading and influencing their disciplines.




                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Building an infrastructure for impact
 The School’s strategy is to expand the role of the RSDO with the remit to encourage more KTPs,
 facilitate impact networks and arrange focussed stakeholder events. We actively encourage staff
 to apply for UKRI IAA and FTMA awards for both immediate and longer-term case studies. IAAs
 provide seed funding to develop collaborations with users of research and the BEE innovation hub
 (Prof Soyer) represents one such successful partnership. The FTMA supports the development of
 promising leaders of the interface between academic and industry, with our partnerships with
 Domainex, Xerion and LifeArc enabling new research to make impact.
 Our Research Strategy Committee with the R&IS Impact team (REF5a-2.6) manages our impact
 portfolio as a database (currently comprising 45 case studies), encouraging and developing future
 case studies. Our internal peer review system requires a well-considered impact assessment and
 delivery plan at a very early stage of each grant application and we deliver regular impact-building
 training workshops. Costs for impact activities are monitored post-award to ensure that these are
 well delivered.

 Seeding new businesses
 The School actively supports staff and fellows to exploit intellectual property. Our thriving spin-out
 companies are:
     Sarissa Biomedical Ltd (Prof Dale)
     Cytecom Ltd (Dr Asally)
     Antimicrobial Screening Facility (NEQAS accredited; Prof Dowson)
     Lucidix Biolabs (Dr Sagona)
     Humane Technologies Ltd (Prof Soyer)
     Virion Biotherapeutics (Prof Easton)

 Wider contributions to the regional bioeconomy
     Sarissa has created 20 jobs in the Warwick Science Park
     Cytecom Ltd (Dr Munehiro Asally) employs one director
     MicroPathology LtD: Prof Fink is an SLS honorary professor and SLS has trained the
       majority of the company’s current staff. The company, a major COVID analysis centre, also
       hosts many undergraduates for their placement year in industry, DTP student miniprojects
       and PIPS.
     Prof Dowson’s Antimicrobial Screening Facility employs one scientist at Warwick
     Humane Technologies Ltd employs one scientist at Warwick

 Engagement with other non-academic communities
 Since early 2020, members of SBIDER have been advising SAGE on the COVID pandemic: Prof
 Keeling and Dr Tildesley have frequently appeared on national and international media throughout
 the pandemic. Prof Easton has also featured on international newscasts about coronaviruses.

 Outreach and community training
 SLS has a dedicated outreach team led by Prof Moffat. Our well-established public engagement
 programme has informed and entertained at high-profile festivals such as Cheltenham Science
 Festival, the Big Bang, the British Science Festival and, locally, the Kenilworth Agricultural show.
 Workload is allocated for outreach activities and the team works with children from Foundation
 Stage (Reception year) up to Sixth Form students and the general public. We also provide CPD
 sessions for teachers via Warwick CTE. All members of the department are encouraged to
 participate in outreach activities: undergraduates and administrative staff helping with science
 evenings, open days and competitions; academics, technicians, post-docs and postgrads

                                                                                               Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 presenting at Pint of Science, Café Scientifique and other community events. A notable success
 has been our public science evenings – held approximately every 6 weeks. Initiated by Prof Dale
 and now supported by our RSDO Dr Kimura and Prof Moffat, we regularly have 100 visitors from
 the public for 2 hour sessions to learn directly from the School about exciting topical research. In
 2018 we delivered outreach to over 2,000 students from approximately 100 schools across the
 country and this is repeated annually. Testament to our leadership in outreach we have been
 chosen to host the British Biology Olympiad each year from 2013, culminating in the honour of
 hosting the International Biology Olympiad in 2018. Led by Prof Moffat, Drs Williams and Gifford
 challenged, enthused and evaluated 264 student competitors from 68 countries in both theory and
 practical tasks.

 Summary: SLS provides an environment where collaboration, entrepreneurship, and
 communication are valued and enabled. We encourage researchers to develop their
 vision with the wider research base, to realise the impact of their work in the bioeconomy
 and to entertain and inform the wider society with exciting news of their discoveries.




                                                                                             Page 22
