Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Leeds

 Unit of Assessment: 27

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 UoA 27 at the University of Leeds is constituted by the School of English, one of the largest
 English departments in the UK. The School makes a significant contribution to the scope and
 diversity of the discipline, and has an international reputation for research excellence. Its
 researchers produce a wide range of outputs from major scholarly editions, digital resources,
 and national and international research networks to more traditional forms of individual
 scholarship such as monographs and articles. The School also sustains a vibrant community of
 creative writers and practitioners, whose work intersects with and complements that of its other
 researchers. It achieves impact locally, nationally, and internationally, and it maintains
 collaborations with partners across the world.

 Over this REF cycle the School has continued to lead the way in areas of long-term strength
 such as Postcolonial Literatures, American Literature, and key historical periods including
 Medieval, Renaissance, Eighteenth-century, Victorian, and Modern literature. It has consolidated
 its investment in what were called the New Humanities in REF 2014, winning major awards and
 building research capacity in both Environmental and Medical Humanities. It has also invested
 substantially in Creative Writing, building on what was already an area of excellence. The key
 principles guiding the School’s research strategy within the current REF cycle are a) to sustain
 and promote excellence in all areas and at all levels while maintaining clear pathways that allow
 researchers to develop larger and more ambitious research projects; b) To maximize the
 opportunities for research impact and public engagement, building sustainable relationships with
 project partners and audiences; c) To foster interdisciplinarity, both within the university and
 beyond; d) to maintain an open and inclusive research environment; and e) to internationalise
 our research, researchers, and research collaborations. Beyond REF 2021, the School’s
 ambition is to extend our capacity to meet these core principles.

 Strategy and policy are directed by the School Management Team (SMT), which is led by the
 Head of School (currently Acting HoS, Andrew Warnes) and reports to the School’s Board of
 Studies (BoS). Research strategy is led by the School’s Director of Research and Innovation
 (DoRI, Hamilton Carroll), who chairs the Research and Innovation Committee (RIC) and sits on
 SMT. RIC strategy is regularly discussed at BoS. The School sits within the Faculty of Arts,
 Humanities and Cultures (AHC). Through the Faculty RIC and with the Pro-Dean for Research
 and Innovation, the DoRI manages School research strategy in the context of Faculty and
 University planning. Also on RIC are the School’s Director of Impact (DoI, Graham Huggan),
 who ensures impact and engagement are central to the work of the committee; the Director of
 Postgraduate Research (DPGR, Nicholas Ray), who embeds Faculty and University strategy at
 School level; and the Director for International Activities, who helps situate the School’s research
 in an international context (Whale).

 The research environment provides structures through which researchers can achieve
 excellence. The School organises its research and teaching through three main disciplinary
 groupings – English Literatures, English Language, and Workshop Theatre – but additional
 mechanisms foster collaboration, interdisciplinarity, and innovative research. We discuss each of
 these mechanisms in detail below, but to summarise they are, firstly, the School’s named
 research groups. Dynamic and responsive, these allow researchers to come together and focus


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on areas of mutual interest. Secondly, there are larger, overarching research centres that enable
 collaboration across the Faculty and University and better visibility beyond. Finally, in areas not
 covered by the formal research groups and centres, a number of regular seminar series and
 symposia regularly bring researchers to the School and enable scholarly exchange.
 Researchers are affiliated to multiple groupings within this environment, situating themselves in
 order to explore ideas, come together in research projects, or develop their individual fields.

 Following REF 2014, the School undertook an extensive review of the function and identities of
 its designated research groups. In 2015 the School replaced ten traditional period-based
 research groups with six groups organized around broader research themes or fields, chosen for
 their capacity for strategic development. Initially formed for five years, the groups foster
 collaboration across period and disciplinary boundaries and build intellectual community
 between researchers. The current groups are: American Studies; Critical Life; Environmental
 Humanities; Medical Humanities; Postcolonial Studies; and Textual Histories. These groups,
 which involve an inclusive mix of postgraduate researchers (PGRs), early career researchers
 (ECRs), and established researchers, carry out a range of activity that, in turn, drives the
 research environment. They organise events such as the Leeds Conference on Textual Studies,
 2017-18 (Textual Histories); After Empire: The Contested History of Decolonization, Migration
 and Race in Modern Britain, 2018 (Postcolonial); Medical Humanities Futures, 2018 (Medical
 Humanities); and the annual Environmental Humanities Study Day (Environmental Humanities).
 They collaborate to develop a number of large-scale projects that have been successful in
 attracting external funding such as Land Lines: Modern British Nature Writing (Environmental
 Humanities); Home, Crisis and the Imagination (American Studies); and Imagining Technologies
 for Disability Futures (Medical Humanities). They carry out impact and engagement activities, for
 instance by running the Leeds Refugee Bibliotherapy Hub (Postcolonial and Critical Life) and
 engaging rural communities in Cumbria on issues of climate change (Environmental
 Humanities). And finally they build communities of scholars through networks like New Voices in
 Postcolonial Studies; the Northern Theory Network (Critical Life); the White Rose-funded
 Extinction Network (Environmental Humanities, with the Universities of Sheffield and York); and
 the Wellcome Trust-funded Northern Network for Medical Humanities (in collaboration with
 Durham University).

 The four cross-disciplinary research centres hosted by the School act as foci for areas of
 longstanding interest, affording greater opportunities for collaboration at an institutional level.
 These are the University of Leeds Poetry Centre, Centre for the Comparative History of Print
 (Centre CHoP), Institute for Colonial and Postcolonial Studies (ICPS), and the Leeds Centre for
 Medical Humanities (LCMH). Two of these Centres, the ICPS and LCMH, also double as
 School-based research groups, enabling the cross-fertilization of individual and collective
 research interests. Both have been able to leverage this dual position to win major funding
 awards: Arctic Encounters: Travel Writing in the European High North (2013-16), funded by the
 EU HERA scheme (€986,183, Huggan, Director of the ICPS); and Imagining Technologies for
 Disability Futures (2017-25), funded by a Wellcome Trust Collaborative Award (£1,509,208,
 Stuart Murray, Director of LCMH and Amelia DeFalco). Centre CHoP and the Leeds Poetry
 Centre are both sustained by the School’s material resources: the University Print Room and the
 major archive holdings of the Brotherton Library Special Collections (see section 3 below).

 The School’s established seminar series and reading groups include: the Postgraduate Seminar;
 Medieval and Early Modern Seminar; Eighteenth Century and Romantic Seminar; Victorian
 Research Seminar; and the Finnegan’s Wake reading group. These provide a space for


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 researchers at all levels, including PGRs, to present and discuss their work, as well as hosting a
 wide range of visiting speakers.

 Aligned with the key principles stated above, the School’s strategic objectives are:

 a. To provide a sustainable environment that produces research excellence

 To meet this goal the School invests in areas of existing strength as well as identifying and
 enabling new areas of research. The Textual Histories research group, for instance, was formed
 on the basis of the School’s longstanding expertise in textual scholarship. Members of the group
 are currently engaged in two major externally-funded editing projects - The Complete Works of
 John Marston (£715,621, Martin Butler) and The Political Work of Richard Brinsley Sheridan
 (£272,621, Robert Jones) – while others have completed smaller-scale scholarly editions of
 Medieval (Catherine Batt and Alaric Hall), nineteenth-century (Julia Reid and Richard Salmon),
 and twentieth-century (Michael Brennan) texts. The School has secured investment in this area
 through the University Academic Fellows (UAF) scheme, which has provided two UAFs in
 Textual and Digital Editing with five years of dedicated research support (Brett Greatley-Hirsch
 and Alison Searle). Further investment has also expanded the scale of innovative work in
 Medical Humanities and Environmental Humanities. Evidence of the former can be seen in the
 recruitment of another UAF (DeFalco) who has contributed to a series of successful funding
 applications, including: Augmenting the Body: Disability, Care and the Posthuman (£28,922,
 Murray and DeFalco); Robot Care: Critical Perspectives on Ethics and Design (£44,898,
 DeFalco); and culminating in Imagining Technologies for Disability Futures (Murray and
 DeFalco). Clare Barker’s Wellcome Trust Fellowship for Genetics and Biocolonialism in
 Contemporary Literature and Film (£109,220) also enhances the research environment in this
 field. The expanded range of work in Environmental Humanities can be seen in projects such as
 the recent award of a Leverhulme Doctoral Scholarship Programme in Extinction Studies (£1.35
 million, Huggan); the Innovative Training Network (ITN) Environmental Humanities for a
 Concerned Europe (ENHANCE, €3.1 million, Huggan); and several major AHRC-funded
 projects: Land Lines: Modern British Nature Writing (£230,595, Huggan and David Higgins);
 British Romantic Writing and Environmental Catastrophe (£211,417, Higgins); and Experiments
 in Land and Society, 1793–1833 (£202,418, Jeremy Davies).

 The School supports researchers from all areas to achieve excellence by assisting them to
 complete major published outputs and identify funding strategies appropriate for their research
 goals. The effectiveness of this support can be seen in the publication of world-leading
 monographs across a wide range of historical periods and disciplines and in our record of grant
 capture at all levels, from large externally-funded projects (as detailed above and in section 3) to
 a range of smaller foundational grants, such as: Representations of Transnational Human
 Trafficking in Present-Day News Media, True Crime, and Fiction (£81,491, Christiana Gregoriou)
 and Home, Crisis and the Imagination (£26,338, Bridget Bennett and Carroll). Examples of large
 projects that have received follow-on funding are The Political Work of Richard Brinsley
 Sheridan, which won an additional £25,000 from the MHRA (Jones) and Land Lines, which won
 two further grants from the AHRC of £94,636 and £98,460 (Huggan). By creating a mixed
 economy in which research excellence can be achieved through a range of different forms and
 levels, the School can respond quickly and effectively to changes in the funding landscape while
 continuing to support the core work of the discipline. This environment also allows the School to
 think through its research strategically, enabling it to take the lead in emerging areas of
 research.


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School, in alignment with the Faculty, has a number of policies for nurturing research
 excellence. The DoRI offers bespoke advice to colleagues at all career stages who are initiating
 projects or funding applications, and both the School and Faculty provide peer review prior to
 submission. Further support is available from the Leeds Arts and Humanities Research Institute
 (LAHRI), which offers training tailored to particular funding schemes, assistance with grant
 writing and costs, and provides space to host exploratory research and sandpit events. The
 School also provides a formative peer review process that enables researchers to receive
 constructive feedback on work prior to publication. The School provides financial resources too.
 All staff, full and part-time, can access a Personal Research Fund (£1000) and the opportunity to
 apply to the Publication Fund (up to £500) to offset publishing costs. The School’s RIC oversees
 the work of the research groups, which each receive an annual budget of £500, and also
 provides a Supplemental Research Fund (£1000) intended to enable strategic and collaborative
 activity that lies outside these formal groupings. Finally, the School provides advice and
 guidance through the University’s Staff Review and Development Scheme (SRDS) and Annual
 Academic Meetings (AAM). It has also developed a revised mentoring scheme led by the Tutor
 for Staff Training, Development and Well Being (Bennett, see section 2 below).

 b. To achieve impact at local, national and international levels.

 Impact and engagement are an integral strand of the School’s research strategy and are
 supported throughout its activity. The DoI provides leadership and is assisted by an Impact
 Support Officer (Ceri Pitches), who works closely with researchers to gather information and
 maximise the potential of planned events. All researchers have access to the School Impact
 Fund (applications up to £1500) and there is an equivalent fund for PGRs (£500). There is an
 annual Impact workshop, designed mainly for PGRs and ECRs, and an online portfolio is
 currently in development to help researchers keep abreast of opportunities and track activity. In
 2019 the School was awarded an additional University fund for Enhancing Impact in English
 (£28,000) with a view to developing the longer term Impact potential of major research projects.

 As our designated Impact Case Studies demonstrate, major external funding remains a crucial
 resource through which our research achieves impact. This is regional (Higgins’s collaboration
 with the Wordsworth Trust, funded by his AHRC Leadership Fellowship), national (Fiona
 Douglas’s work on dialect as living heritage, funded by the National Lottery) and international
 (Jane Plastow’s work with disadvantaged communities in East Africa funded by various AHRC
 grants; Huggan’s work on tourism in the Arctic funded by the EU).

 School strategy is aligned with that of the Faculty and University, and researchers benefit from
 their support. For instance, the University‘s Cultural Institute fosters collaborations with creative
 partners, and its IGNITE scheme has provided ‘seedcorn’ funding for a range of School projects.
 John Whale’s award allowed the Leeds Poetry Centre to work on an archiving project with the
 Leeds-based publisher of Black and Afro-Caribbean writing Peepal Tree Press, and DeFalco’s
 Touch: Sensing, Feeling, Knowing funded a range of activities by sensory theatre companies
 and educators of the blind for an audience that included the sighted, blind, and vision-impaired.

 The School also invests directly in impact and engagement to embed an outward-looking and
 collaborative research culture. In 2014 the School founded the award-winning Writing Back
 project, led by Impact Fellow Georgina Binnie. By facilitating the exchange of letters to address
 loneliness and social isolation, this project has established lasting cross-generational friendships
 between University of Leeds students and older members of the local community. In addition,
 the School supports the annual Ilkley Literature Festival. The University is an official partner: the

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 School is the venue for its annual British Academy/LAHRI public lecture and has hosted a
 number of events featuring its members, including Simon Armitage, Rachel Bower, Butler,
 Higgins, McLeod, Mullin, Mussell, Rickard, Whale. Our PGRs have access to training and funds
 to develop the impact of their own projects, as well as other opportunities: for instance, PGRs
 run biweekly reading groups across Leeds for the Refugee Bibliotherapy Hub, running events in
 Refugee Week in conjunction with Leeds Central Library and Refugee Forum, and giving invited
 talks in other cities about the model of bibliotherapy pioneered by Sam Durrant’s 2014 Impact
 Case Study.

 c. To continue to foster interdisciplinarity

 As detailed above, the School changed its research group structure following REF 2014 to
 enhance its capacity to shape and respond to developments within broader interdisciplinary
 fields. These groups have become important sites of collaboration both within and beyond the
 School. For instance, PGRs from the Environmental Humanities group run the Leeds Animal
 Studies Network, which has brought together scholars from a disciplines including anthropology,
 ecology, environmental history, and cultural geography. The group runs study days and
 conferences such as the interdisciplinary Mediating Climate Change in 2017. The Postcolonial
 research group meanwhile works closely not only with the ICPS but also with the Leeds
 University Centre for African Studies (LUCAS, Acting Director Brendon Nicholls) and the Leeds
 Centre for World Literatures (CWL), both themselves cross-disciplinary bodies.

 The School’s research centres are also designed to promote interdisciplinary approaches.
 Centre CHoP brings together researchers from English, History, Fine art, History of Science, and
 the Brotherton Library and incorporates approaches from bibliography and the history of the
 book with practice-led research. Mussell’s AHRC Research Network Letterpress Printing: Past,
 Present, and Future (£29,529, 2017-18) led the Centre’s engagement with scholars from three
 other institutions across the UK and Ireland. The Leeds Centre for Medical Humanities has
 hosted a number of interdisciplinary projects looking at disability and care. Engineering the
 Imagination: Disability, Prostheses and the Body (Murray, £23,956, 2017), for instance, was
 funded by an APEX award from the British Academy, the Royal Academy of Engineering, the
 Royal Society and the Leverhulme Trust to support excellence in cross-disciplinary research and
 involved researchers from the School of Mechanical Engineering. DeFalco’s research into robot
 care involves collaboration with robot engineers, ethicists (the co-director of the Foundation for
 Responsible Robotics), and cognitive neuroscientists. Murray and DeFalco have broadened the
 interdisciplinary scope of their work by collaborating on Imagining Technologies for Disability
 Futures with Robotics@Leeds, Mechanical Engineering (the Institute of Design, Robotics and
 Optimisation), and the Leeds Institute for Data Analytics (Centre for Immersive Technologies).

 Researchers in the School have taken advantage of LAHRI’s Sadler Seminar Series to build
 interdisciplinary collaborations with colleagues in arts and humanities, social sciences, and
 STEM. The scheme funds a year-long programme of seminars and workshops and is linked to
 further funding and support. Projects involving the School include Cultures of the Book (Mussell),
 2015; Flow: Supermarkets and the Movement of Food and People (Warnes), 2015; Augmenting
 the Body: Disability, Bodily Extensions and the Posthuman (Murray), 2016; Ssh: Encounters in
 the Unquiet Library (Bennett), 2017; The Archive after Cecil Roth: Jewish Studies, Cultural
 Histories and the Cecil Roth Collection (Jay Prosser), 2018; The War Veteran in Culture and
 Society (Carroll), 2018; Animist Engagements: Creativity, Ecology and Indigeneity (Durrant)
 2019. Several of these series led to successful external funding bids: for example, Mussell’s
 AHRC Network and Bennett’s Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship for The Dissenting

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Atlantic: Archives and Unquiet Libraries, 1776–1865 (£107,972). Researchers also lead on
 collaborations with other University groupings: Alaric Hall is the current Director of the
 University’s long-established interdisciplinary Institute for Medieval Studies (IMS), based in the
 School of History and home to the world-renowned annual Medieval Congress, while Julia Snell
 has recently established the group Language in Society, which brings together colleagues from
 the Schools of English, Education, and Languages, Cultures, and Societies (LCS).

 Through its resources and structures, the School also allows individuals to pursue extended
 interdisciplinary projects of their own. Plastow’s participatory arts projects in Kenya, Malawi, and
 Uganda, for instance, have employed theatre and film but are situated within approaches that
 combine development studies with politics, history, literary and cultural studies (funding as PI
 amounts to £488,432). Mark Taylor-Batty’s major AHRC-funded research project, Harold Pinter:
 Histories and Legacies (£813,326) focuses on the production of Pinter’s plays but also takes in
 film, television and radio, drawing upon methods from literary, theatre, media and film studies.
 Tony Crowley was awarded a Major Research Fellowship by the Leverhulme Trust to support
 his well-established digital project mapping Political Wall Murals in Northern Ireland (£109,944).
 This important, public-facing project brings together digital work with history, cultural studies, and
 visual studies.

 At PGR level, the School has benefited from the University’s Cross-Disciplinary Scholarships,
 which allow students to work with supervisors across the Faculty or University, and members of
 the School are working with the University’s recently appointed Dean for Interdisciplinary
 Research (Stuart Taberner) to develop further opportunities, for instance with the Frontiers
 Institute and NEXUS, the University’s hub that connects researchers with business.

 d. To foster and maintain an open research environment and ensure the integrity of its
 research

 RIC ensures that the School complies with the University’s Open Access policy (see REF5a)
 and, through the Publication Fund, supplements funding available elsewhere for author
 processing charges or subventions for the publication of open-access monographs. The White
 Rose Repository, developed and managed in collaboration with the Universities of Sheffield and
 York, provides access to research, whether final accepted manuscripts or published work, and
 the School has opted in to the Repository’s ‘request a copy’ service to provide a further level of
 access. Since 2013, 396 publications have been deposited in the Repository and there have
 been over 90,000 downloads from researchers all over the world. In addition, several members
 of the School have actively promoted Open Access in their respective fields (Greatley-Hirsch,
 Hall, Mussell) and others are placing the Concordat on Open Research Data at the heart of their
 projects (Murray).

 Research integrity is maintained through University procedures such as SRDS and AAMs, while
 applications for Research Leave are assessed by RIC before awards are made and final reports
 evaluated once the period of leave is complete. All research is carried out in line with the
 University Research Ethics Policy. Ethical review is overseen by the Faculty Research Ethics
 Committee, which is currently chaired by a member of the School (Jones). In 2018, the School
 constituted an Equality and Inclusion Committee (EIC), which consults on all areas of its activity,
 including research (see section 2).

 e. To extend the international reach of its research and continue to internationalise the
 research environment.

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Within the School, the Director of International Activities (Whale) ensures School strategy is
 aligned with that of the Faculty and University. For the University, International strategy is led by
 the Deputy Vice Chancellor: International and for the Faculty, by the Pro Dean for International.
 The Faculty has developed links with key institutions in Singapore and China, amongst others,
 and members of the School have served as representatives, forging relationships, developing
 programmes of exchange, and establishing shared teaching that will produce PGRs.

 The School exploits Faculty and University strategy as part of its wider goal to develop
 ambitious, interdisciplinary research that shape the research conversation on the international
 stage. Huggan’s ENHANCE project, for instance, placed Leeds at the centre of a European
 network established to train the next generation of researchers in the Environmental Humanities.
 Murray and DeFalco’s Imagining Technologies for Disability Futures, places Leeds at the head
 of a project that includes researchers from Japan, the United States, Sweden, and the
 Netherlands. Butler’s Marston Project involves scholars from the United States, Canada, and
 Italy. Furthermore, our researchers participate in research projects hosted overseas: Hall was
 Co-I on Gullskinna: Postmedieval Transmission and Reception of a Lost Medieval Parchment-
 Codex based at Stofnun Árna Magnússonar in Iceland; Higgins was a researcher on The
 Formation of Environmental Aesthetics funded by the Japanese government; and Mussell held a
 Mercator Fellowship in 2017 as part of a €2 million German project based at Marburg, Bochum,
 and Cologne. Many other researchers have held visiting professorships or fellowships at
 overseas institutions during the census period, including Catherine Batt (Taiwanese Science
 Council Fellowship, 2014), Richard Brown (China Foreign Affairs University in Beijing, 2017),
 Kimberley Campanello (Chinese University Hong Kong Faculty Mobility Scheme, 2019), John
 McLeod (Transatlantic Forum Scholar, Washington University St. Louis, 2014; Nanyang
 Technological University, Singapore, 2019), Brett Greatley-Hirsch (Bibliographical Society of
 America–Pforzheimer Fellowship in Bibliography, Harry Ransom Center, University of Texas at
 Austin, 2018; S. Ernest Sprott Fellowship, University of Melbourne, 2017), Pippa Marland
 (Moore Institute Visiting Fellowship, NUI Galway, 2019), Reid (National Humanities Center,
 North Carolina, 2015-6), Rickard (Huntingdon Library Fellow, California, 2016), Salmon
 (Université Paul Valery, Montpellier, 2018), Searle (Humanities Research Centre, Australian
 National University, 2019), Snell (VIA University College, Aarhus, Denmark, 2013-15), and
 Warnes (Museum of American History, Smithsonian Institute, Washington DC, 2016).

 The School has been able to build upon its existing reputation for the diversity and international
 scope of its research. A pioneer in the study of Commonwealth literature and postcolonial
 studies, the School has developed this expertise into areas such as the intersection between
 postcolonial studies and environmental humanities (Huggan); postcolonial and transcultural
 adoption (McLeod); refugee narratives (Durrant); African literature and theatre (Nicholls and
 Plastow); and Canadian literature (DeFalco). Our creative work is also international. The journal
 Moving Worlds is co-edited between Leeds and Nanyang Technological University, Singapore,
 and the Poetry Centre recently co-organised Poetry: China and the UK with the Leeds Centre for
 New Chinese Writing and the Confucius Institute that featured poets from China. Recent visiting
 international scholars have included Daniel Jernigan from Nanyang Technological University
 (2016); the Indian novelist and critic Tabish Khair (Leverhulme Visiting Professor in 2017); Lily
 Yuan from Shanghai Normal University (2018); and Kiofumi Suguira from Chugyo University in
 Japan (2019).

 This reputation allows the School to use University’s structures to support internationalisation at
 PGR level too. Mobility is enabled through the Faculty Graduate School, which provides grants

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to attend conferences, and through the White Rose College of the Arts and Humanities
 (WRoCAH), its AHRC-funded consortium. International PGRs can apply for the scholarships
 offered by the University and the School’s Bonamy Dobrée Scholarship (see section 2).
 Currently, the school’s postgraduate community includes students from India, Kenya, Malaysia,
 Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Thailand, and the United States.

 2. People

 The School of English at the University of Leeds is one of the largest of its kind in the UK and its
 size brings both benefits and challenges. The most obvious benefit is that the School can
 provide a wider range of research than most of its peers; the most obvious challenge is that its
 size might create administrative hurdles for individual researchers or lead to certain research
 areas being marginalized. To offset these possible challenges, the School has set up a series of
 robust structures that encourage freedom of movement while maintaining the integrity of distinct
 research areas. These structures are also designed to maintain the basic principles of equality
 and inclusiveness that are integral to the UK higher education system, and to enhance the
 diversity of our research.

 Staffing Strategy and development

 The School recognises the value of research and impact and ensures staff can successfully
 carry out both. All staff have a designated weekly research day, workload is adjusted for those
 who hold grants, manage projects, or carry out administrative duties, and the School offers
 mentoring and workload adjustments to support those applying for funding. All full-time and part-
 time academic staff, upon the completion of three years of teaching, are eligible to apply for a
 semester of research leave which they use to develop major research outputs, major funding
 applications, or impact-driven work. Academic staff as well as PGRs have access to a Personal
 Research Fund and can apply to the School’s Impact Fund. Achievements in research are
 formally recognized and communicated in the HoS’s monthly newsletter, and the School also
 holds a Research Celebration event every summer.

 As indicated in section 1, since 2014 the School has taken advantage of the UAF scheme to
 attract the best international researchers and build research strength in key areas. In addition to
 the appointments of Greatley-Hirsch and Searle in textual editing and early-modern literature
 and DeFalco in Medical Humanities, a fourth UAF (Matthew Boswell) was appointed in the field
 of contemporary literature and Holocaust memory. Three of the Fellows, Boswell, DeFalco, and
 Searle, were promoted to Associate Professor during the census period.

 Direct investment has been made in the field of creative writing with the appointment of Simon
 Armitage as the School’s first Professor of Poetry (2017) and Kimberley Campanello as lecturer
 (2018). The School has a rich history of supporting creative writing, hosting the international
 poetry magazine Stand (1952-), continuing to publish Poetry and Audience (1953-, one of the
 longest-running poetry magazines in the UK), and programming activity through the Leeds
 Poetry Centre (2009-), but these posts consolidate recent efforts to position creative writing as
 an integral part of our research culture. In 2014 Helen Mort was appointed as the first Douglas
 Caster Cultural Fellow (2014-16). Established as part of the University of Leeds Academy of
 Cultural Fellows and administered by the Cultural Institute, these Fellowships provide funding for
 a poet to pursue their creative work in the School for a period of up to two years. The
 Fellowships have attracted diverse and high-profile award-winning poets: Malika Booker (2015-
 17), Vahni Capildeo (2017-19), and Zaffar Kunial (2019-21). More recently, Armitage’s

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 appointment as the Poet Laureate has brought an unprecedented degree of visibility to creative
 writing and the Leeds Poetry Centre. Creative ECR funding, such as the Leverhulme Early
 Career Fellows Karl O’Hanlan and Rachel Bower, have been an important feature of these
 growing strengths.

 The University is a signatory of the Researcher Development Concordat, and staffing strategy
 and development in the School occur in the context of its policy on the Appointment of
 Researchers and. Staff development takes place through SRDS, in which individual colleagues
 and reviewers discuss and agree developmental objectives that they report to the HoS, and
 AAMs, in which individual colleagues discuss their overall individual contribution to School
 strategy with HoS, DoRI, and Director of Student Education (DSE) to. A dedicated advisor
 provides support for staff considering promotion (Jones).

 The success of these schemes can be seen in the advancement of researchers across the
 School. In this REF period promotional Chairs have been awarded to Becket, Carroll, Jones,
 Salmon, and Warnes. Barker, Davies, DeRitter, Nicholls, Orozco, and Searle have all won
 promotion to Associate Professor, and Campanello was promoted from grade seven to grade
 eight. Short-term appointments often support colleagues heavily involved in administration,
 carrying out funded research, or on extended leave. Increased funding from the School’s
 success in supporting major research projects has allowed it to create substantial fixed--term
 posts. David Wylot, for instance, was appointed to a School-funded one-year Lectureship in
 contemporary literature (2019) but has since begun a further two-year post funded by another
 colleague’s successful Leverhulme award (Bennett).

 New members of staff (predominantly ECRs) are appointed in line with the University’s policies
 regarding equality and inclusion (see below) and have access to the same forms of funding and
 other support as other researchers in the School (detailed above). Probation Advisors support
 them through the University’s induction and probation processes, providing bespoke guidance.

 The School has also been successful in assigning mentors to established researchers among its
 staff. For instance, Huggan provided mentorship for Higgins in his successful bid for the AHRC
 Leadership Fellowship that funded British Romantic Writing and Environmental Catastrophe
 (one of the School’s Impact Case Studies). Higgins, in turn, mentored Tess Somervell, the
 PDRA on the project, as she applied for and won a British Academy Postdoctoral Fellowship in
 the School. Those appointed to fellowships or research positions on funded projects are always
 assigned mentors, ensuring ECRs receive appropriate advice and support and are integrated
 into the wider research culture of the School. These arrangements have had demonstrable
 success: in addition to Somervell, both Pippa Marland and José Pérez Díez were recruited as
 PDRAs on funded research projects (Land Lines and the Marston Project) and subsequently
 rejoined the School as Leverhulme Early Career Fellows (Pérez Diez after the census period).
 The School recently disseminated these examples of good practice while further formalizing its
 mentoring procedures.

 Alongside the School’s research leave scheme, full-time and part-time staff are also eligible for
 Faculty Research Leave. English has been successful in this competition and since 2014
 Carroll, DeFalco, Flannery, Higgins, Mussell, Prosser, and Snell have received tailored teaching
 relief or a second consecutive semester of leave. Such leave has enabled colleagues to make
 valuable progress with individual research projects, undertake Impact work, and broaden
 associative networks.


                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Students

 The School has continued to recruit strongly at PGR level with 93 current graduate researchers,
 8 of whom are EU and 29 international. The number of doctoral degrees awarded has increased
 from 58 in the last REF census period to 111 (as reported in REF 4a). The School is part of the
 White Rose College of the Arts and Humanities (WRoCAH) and has secured 20 AHRC doctoral
 awards through this scheme. Externally-funded projects also provide excellent opportunities for
 doctoral students. For example, Huggan recently led the University’s successful application for a
 Leverhulme Doctoral Scholarship in Extinction Studies; in addition, his ENHANCE ITN (2015-
 2019) funded twelve PGRs at four different institutions in three countries. Further PGRs have
 been recruited through the Transnational Holocaust Memory project (Co-I Boswell), based in the
 School of Languages, Cultures, and Societies (two PGRs in English) and Higgins’s AHRC
 Leadership Fellowship (one PGR). The School has won scholarships through the University’s
 various schemes, including three Leeds Doctoral Scholarships, eleven Leeds Anniversary
 Research Scholarships (full UK/EU fees plus maintenance at UKRI rate), three Leeds
 International Doctoral Scholarships, and one China Scholarship (full International fees plus
 maintenance at UKRI rate). Over the cycle it has also attracted several endowed scholarships:
 four Gatenby doctoral scholarships (full UK/EU fees plus £15,009–£15,705 maintenance p/a);
 four Patricia Jones Scholarships (one full UK/EU fees plus maintenance, one full international
 fees plus maintenance, one full UK/EU fees only, and one UK/EU full fees plus maintenance for
 Masters by Research); and one Joseph Wright Scholarship, one Crockatt & Roston Scholarship,
 and one Frank Parkinson Scholarship (all at full UK/EU fees plus £12,000 maintenance p/a for
 three years). There has also been a School of English designated Endowed International
 Scholarship, the Dorothy Hewlett (full international fees and £12,000 maintenance p/a for three
 years, 2014). In addition the School offers several of its own scholarships on an ongoing basis:
 UK/EU students are eligible for the Douglas Jefferson award, the John Barnard award and the
 Inga Stina Ewbank award (all full fees plus maintenance at standard UKRI rate). For students
 outside the EU, the School offers the Bonamy Dobrée Scholarship (full international fees plus
 maintenance at £12,000 p/a for three years). An Alumni Bursary (10% of the fee) is available to
 successful Leeds BA and MA graduates, supporting our best homegrown students to progress
 to doctoral studies

 All School of English PGRs are also admitted to the Faculty’s Graduate School and the Leeds
 Doctoral College. In the School, the Director of Postgraduate Research (Ray) supports the PGR
 cohort while ensuring alignment with the Graduate School and Doctoral College. Formal
 supervision and mentoring are delivered within the framework set out by the College. PGRs are
 allocated two supervisors where possible and meet for supervision at least ten times per session
 (six times for part-time). Overseen by the Graduate School, the Annual Progress Review (APR)
 ensures ongoing progress, while the School operates a rigorous upgrading exercise
 approximately 9 months after the start of all new doctoral degrees. For such upgrades, students
 submit a sample of work, detailed synopsis, and schedule for completion, which are then
 assessed by two independent readers at a viva. At subsequent end-of-year APRs students and
 supervisors assess the project’s progress, training needs, and the schedule of work for
 completion. Ensuring institutional consistency and quality, the University’s online Graduate
 Record of Achievement and Development (GRAD) holds details not just of the upgrade but all
 supervisions and APRs among other relevant paperwork.

 GRAD also provides a record for all training and skills development. In their first supervision, all
 PGRs complete an audit of skills and training needs with their supervisor. The School helps
 PGRs meet these needs through a compulsory Research Skills module and a series of

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Professional Development Workshops. Recent workshops have been on applying for academic
 jobs; postdoctoral positions; book proposals; and wellbeing and self-care. PGRs take advantage
 of such opportunities: as of June 2020, 365 PGRs had attended 851 distinct training events. The
 School allocates funding for training and language skills integral to PGR projects, while separate
 Research (£750) and Impact Funds (£500) allow students to visit libraries and archives, attend
 conferences, and develop projects and collaborations. Examples include Sophia Nicolov’s 2019
 exhibition on whales at Hull Maritime Museum, based on her doctoral research, and Emily
 Timms’s co-leadership of the New Voices in Postcolonial Studies network. Further resources are
 available through LAHRI, which supports PGRs in writing grant applications, and the Graduate
 School and Doctoral College. The Graduate School provides mobility grants for research visits
 and conferences and professionalization seminars; the Doctoral College opportunities for PGRs
 to network with others across campus, including prize competitions (‘three-minute thesis’;
 research posters; research images) and a dedicated commercialisation team. PGR students
 awarded WRoCAH’s scholarships have access to its systems of support, including a structured
 training programme which focuses on managing the transition to doctoral research, building a
 positive professional presence in academia and beyond, and enhancing impact through
 collaboration and exchange. It also provides additional funding to support training needs,
 research visits, conference attendance, internationalization, employability placements with
 partner organizations, and knowledge exchange projects. All Leeds doctoral students are eligible
 to apply for short-term postdoctoral positions with LAHRI designed to enable them to take the
 next steps in their research careers. These positions are non-stipendary, but provide office
 space, access to library resources, and access to a £500 research fund. In response to the
 coronavirus pandemic, the Graduate School has offered all recently completed PGRs Academic
 Visitor status, allowing them continued access to institutional support.

 Regardless of how they are funded, the School incorporates PGR students fully into its research
 environment. PGRs are members of all of the school’s research groups but a dedicated
 Postgraduate Seminar helps students build community. There are other, well-established series
 run or co-convened by PGRs that are open to all such as the critical/cultural theory seminar
 Quilting Points. There are also publications run by PGRs or that actively involve PGRs: Carl
 White is on the board of the WRoCAH Journal; Timms is editorial assistant on Moving Worlds;
 and former PGRs Emma Trott and Hannah Copley are editorial assistants on Stand. Two PGRs
 sit on RIC and attend Board of Studies, ensuring the perspectives of PGRs are appropriately
 represented within the School’s broader administrative structures.

 PGR students have won awards to continue their studies overseas, including a Fulbright
 scholarship (Macklin to study at Cornell) and an International Placement Scheme fellowship
 (White to study at the Harry Ransome Center); others have obtained funded postdocs, whether
 funded by the Wellcome, Leverhulme, and British Academy, offered by universities, or on funded
 research projects. Our PGRs speak at conferences around the world and publish widely, their
 work recognised through essay prizes such as the British Association for American Studies
 postgraduate essay award (Victoria Addis, Macklin) and British Association for Contemporary
 Literary Studies postgraduate essay prize (Addis). PGRs have gone on to become academic
 researchers at a range of institutions including the University of Mosul (Iraq); Ain Shams
 University (Egypt); Umm Al-Qura University (Saudi Arabia); Leiden University, University of
 Groningen (Netherlands); Gazientep University (Turkey); Nanyang Technological University
 (Singapore); Malawi Univeristy (Malawi); University of Cape Coast (Ghana); American University
 (Dubai); FLAME University, University of the Punjab (India); Government University, Lahore
 College for Women University (Pakistan); Universiti Sultan Zainal (Malaysia); Pontifical Catholic
 University of Chile (Chile); University of Hong Kong (Hong Kong); CUNY, UCLA, University of

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Pennsylvania, Western Oregon University (United States); St Mary’s University (Canada); as
 well as a number of UK institutions (Worcester, Queen Mary, Westminster, York, Keele, Bristol,
 Leeds).

 Equality and Diversity

 Led by its Equality and Inclusion Committee (EIC, chaired by Prosser), School practice is based
 on strategy developed from the University’s Equality and Inclusion Framework via the Faculty
 Equality and Inclusion Committee. Research matters, like staff wellbeing and PGR development,
 are part of EIC’s regular business. The School’s Staff Handbook sets out the University’s
 approach to Equality and Inclusion as well as researchers’ responsibilities. It directs researchers
 to the Policy on Dignity and Mutual Respect and reminds them that they must complete the
 mandatory university training, An Introduction to Equality and Inclusion.

 The School takes a flexible approach to individual staff needs but through EIC also works to
 incorporate best practice into its strategies and structures. For instance, all staff whose
 appointment includes research are eligible for study leave and EIC works to ensure that
 distribution is equitable and regular. Following recent updates, application and report forms
 include equality and inclusion concerns, enabling the School to support those with caring
 responsibilities, disabilities, or health issues. Flexible organisation of leave periods, such as
 splitting a period of leave over two semesters, promotes an inclusive research culture, while
 software, equipment and other resources support those with disabilities or ill health. The School
 reviews all funding applications to ensure they meet these agreed expectations for equality and
 inclusion.

 Reporting to HoS and the EIC, the School’s Promotions Officer (Jones) is available to all staff
 and instigates promotions meetings dependent on their grade or number of years in post. The
 underrepresentation of women in research-leadership roles has been flagged at EIC and is
 being addressed in the School through existing University schemes, such as Women of
 Achievement programme and Leeds Female Leaders, as well as mentoring and responsive
 workload balancing. The School’s policy is to hold research events within working hours
 wherever possible and to take into account religious holidays when planning.

 The School also works with the broader University to ensure equality and inclusion guide its
 estates refurbishment and the acquisition of new equipment. Access has been improved by
 installing a lift across all floors, a disabled entrance, and disabled and gender-neutral toilets. The
 School’s policy is to diversify representation of staff on all panels, committees, and research
 events. In terms of gender inclusion, the School does not support panels of three or more
 speakers on which all speakers are male unless no alternative exists. Staff with protected
 characteristics are supported via staff networks and role models (for instance the LGBT+ Allies,
 Leeds11 (BME), Muslim Staff, Staff Mental Health and Disability, Women at Leeds) and
 dedicated celebrations (Black History Month, LGBT+ Pride).

 Wellbeing is also central to the School’s work. An Officer for Wellbeing sits on EIC whose brief is
 to support staff wellbeing in dialogue with mentoring and workload concerns. The workload grid
 for all staff is reviewed annually, holistically in the School and in individual AAMs, in order to
 ensure equity and manageability. School guidelines encourage timely, succinct communication
 inside working hours. Curriculum review and assessment revisions have been made with
 consideration of research demands. The School hosts in-house wellbeing workshops for staff
 and PGRs with guidance from Staff Counselling and Psychological Support services. Wellbeing

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 lunchtime walks/‘brown bag’ lunches have enabled staff and PGRs to address and improve
 wellbeing in an informal and collegial context, strengthening the wider research community.
 During Covid-19, these have been replaced by a regular online coffee morning, providing a point
 of continuity and ensuring everyone can remain involved.

 The School has always supported requests for flexible working and accommodates remote
 working in research. The University supplies remote desktop software to enable access to its
 systems and assistive technologies are available for staff with disabilities to support remote
 working. With the outbreak of Covid-19, nearly all research became remote and the School
 provided funds for the provision of additional equipment.

 The School also takes a flexible and responsive approach to facilitate travel for those with caring
 responsibilities, disabilities, or ill health. Carers Leeds offers access to carer benefits,
 allowances, transport and sitting services, including for conference attendance. Promotion
 measures recognise that staff may have difficulty in travelling for research and include
 alternative criteria for promotion. The School also enables staggered return to work after periods
 of leave as a result of ill health, compassionate leave, or caring responsibilities. The School is
 breastfeeding friendly and staff with unforeseen childcare responsibilities may bring children to
 work.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 As described above, the School’s research strategy is designed to foster excellent research at
 every level. Its success is evident in the dramatic increase in grant capture over the current REF
 cycle. The total income from external grants was £1,400,000 in REF 2014; the total reported in
 REF 4b is £4,739,025; and our internal records, as of October 2020, total £6,941,074. A
 measure of this increase can be seen in our annual research income: in 2013 this was
 £250,476, but from 2014 to 2020 it increased to an average of £697,232 per year. We attract
 funding from a range of funders including the AHRC, British Academy, ESCR, EU, Leverhulme
 Trust, National Lottery Heritage Fund, and Wellcome Trust. Of our research income, 61%
 derives from UK research councils and other funders of academic research and 21% from EU
 research funders. Of the remainder, 14% is from UK charities and industry and 4.3% from EU
 charities and industry. The School has had considerable success in funding for larger, more
 ambitious projects. Both the ENHANCE research network and Imagining Technologies for
 Disability Futures were awarded well over a million pounds each; Arctic Encounters, Harold
 Pinter: Histories and Legacies, The Complete Works of John Marston, and Dialect and Heritage:
 The State of the Nation (Fiona Douglas) each received over £500,000. The School encourages
 researchers to realise the potential of their projects, translating small or medium-sized projects
 into larger ones with more impact. The Wellcome Trust Collaborative Award for Imagining
 Technologies for Disability Futures, for instance, was built on four previous smaller grants, as
 detailed above. Similarly, for her project Dialect and Heritage, Douglas converted her success at
 stage one of the National Lottery Heritage fund (£65,600) to success at stage two (£500,000).

 Many funded projects are collaborative and interdisciplinary in nature, with strong national or
 international connections. The Political Works of Richard Brinsley Sheridan (Jones) is a national
 collaboration between literature and history scholars at Leeds and the University of Aberystwyth,
 while Salmon’s The Society of Authors 1884-1914: Professional Association and Literary
 Property involves literature scholars and scholars of copyright law at Leeds and the University of
 London. Internationally, the ENHANCE network, funded by the EU Marie Skłodowska Curie
 scheme, was a collaboration between four research institutions (University of Leeds, Ludwig-

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Maximilians-Universität, Munich, the Deutsches Museum, Munich, and the Royal Institute of
 Technology, Stockholm) in three European countries; and Plastow’s research networks in Kenya
 (University of Nairobi), Uganda (Makerere University; Mbarara University of Science and
 Technology; International Health Sciences University), and Malawi (University of Malawi) have
 led to a series of collaborative projects: Promoting Sexual and Reproductive Health Education
 among Adolescents through Creative and Youth-led Practice in India, Malawi and Uganda,
 AHRC, £174,590; Performing Living Knowledge: Developing a Replicable Model for Arts-Based
 Empowerment of Marginalised Urban Communities in Uganda and Malawi, AHRC, £80,626; and
 (as Co-I) Intergenerational Justice, Consumption and Sustainability in Comparative Perspective,
 AHRC, £867,356).

 As outlined in section 1, the School has made strategic investments in particular research areas
 which have generated substantial income growth. Newly established at REF 2014, the Centre
 for Medical Humanities was has secured Imagining Technologies for Disability Futures among
 other significant grants. The Centre has also been integral to the University’s success in winning
 funding from the Wellcome Trust’s Institutional Strategic Support Fund (ISSF) in every year
 since the scheme was launched in 2014. These awards have allowed eight postdoctoral
 researchers to join the School as Wellcome ISSF Fellows. Investment in Environmental
 Humanities since 2014 has led to the award of four major grants for three researchers totalling
 £3.3 million pounds (excluding the HERA-funded Arctic Encounters which ran from 2013-16).
 Finally, the School’s success in the University UAF scheme has resulted in grants in different
 fields. Searle (UAF Textual and Digital Editing) was awarded an AHRC Leadership Fellowship
 for Pastoral Care, Literary Cure and Religious Dissent: Zones of Freedom in the British Atlantic
 (c1630-1720) (£196,366) and Boswell (UAF Contemporary Literature) won a series of grants
 from the AHRC exploring Holocaust Memory (Mobilising Multidirectional Memory to Build More
 Resilient Communities in South Africa, 2016-2018, £80,929 (CoI); Virtual Holocaust Memory:
 from Testimony to Holography, 2015-2016, £93,048 (PI); Virtual Holocaust Memoryscapes:
 Scoping the Creation of Immersive, Spatial Archives of the Bergen-Belsen and Neuengamme
 Memorial Sites, 2018, £60,276 (PI)).

 In terms of research infrastructure, the School has two research assets. Firstly, the world-
 renowned Workshop Theatre, whose most famous alumnus is the Nobel Prize-winning Nigerian
 playwright Wole Soyinka. Under the stewardship of a dedicated theatre technician its facilities
 comprise two fully-equipped theatre spaces and smaller rehearsal studios. The Workshop
 Theatre supports Plastow’s research on theatre and development in East Africa, Taylor-Batty’s
 project on Pinter, and Lourdes Orozco’s Donut Pilot Project (described in section 4). Secondly,
 the School has a working print room with several historic printing presses. Since REF 2014, and
 under the auspices of Centre CHoP, the Print Room has been renovated and returned to use
 now providing a venue for print workshops, public events (Ilkley Literature Festival, Heritage
 Open Days), and a basis for funding bids (AHRC Network on Letterpress Printing).

 As part of the renewal of its estate, including its commitment to a net-zero carbon footprint by
 2030, the University is currently investing in the School, and plans to renovate all buildings in a
 way that will enhance teaching and office space as well as communal areas. While it is paused
 due to Covid-19, the University remains committed to this project and its wider goals towards
 sustainability.

 Researchers in the School benefit from LAHRI, a Faculty resource that provides organisational
 support and encourages networking and collaboration. Its facilities include a workspace for
 ECRs, offices and support staff for visiting scholars, and venues for symposia and conferences.

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Working closely with the University’s Research and Innovation Service, LAHRI staff foster
 collaboration between Schools and support the development of external funding applications
 and. The School of English plays a full role in LAHRI’s activities, its members having served as
 Director (Brennan) and Deputy-Director (Higgins). As noted above, researchers in the School
 have had considerable success applying for LAHRI’s Sadler Seminar Series, allowing them to
 build interdisciplinary collaborations that frequently lead to further funded research and high-
 quality outputs. The School has also taken advantage of LAHRI’s accommodation for visiting
 scholars, including for medical humanities researchers recruited under the Wellcome ISSF.

 Many other university resources, and particularly its library services, support research in the
 School. The Brotherton Library, one of the preeminent UK academic research libraries, and a
 member of Research Libraries UK, holds 3 million print and 500,000 online volumes and more
 than 37,000 print and online journals. Its internationally significant strengths in English literature
 include manuscript and printed poetry, 1600-1750; nineteenth-century author collections, notably
 for the Brontës, Elizabeth Gaskell, and A.C. Swinburne; for the earlier twentieth century,
 outstanding UK collections of Graham Greene, Evelyn Waugh, and John Betjeman; and the
 manuscript archives of many later twentieth-century writers. As part of our strategic engagement
 with the region’s literary identity, the School has worked with librarians to develop archives of
 authors connected to Leeds, Yorkshire, and the North. Recent acquisitions include
 comprehensive literary archives of Simon Armitage, Melvyn Bragg, Tony Harrison, Geoffrey Hill,
 Jon Silkin, and Ken Smith.

 The work of the Leeds Poetry Centre, which was established in collaboration with the Brotherton
 Special Collections, aims to exploit the wealth of its holdings and secure further archival
 acquisitions. For example, Becket and Trott recently curated Poetry By Design, an exhibition
 focused on the look of the page that drew upon the collections. Similarly, Douglas’s Dialect and
 Heritage project is digitising the Leeds Archive of Vernacular Culture, a nationally significant
 collection held by Special Collections that contains all the materials from the world-famous
 Survey of English Dialects (1946-1978) and the archives of the former Leeds Institute of Dialect
 and Folk Life Studies (1964-1983). Finally, on the basis of his Sadler Seminar Series, Prosser
 received £64,000 from the Rothschild Foundation Hanadiv Europe in 2019-20 to research,
 organize and disseminate the Brotherton’s Cecil Roth Archive.

 Researchers benefit from other libraries in the region too. Leeds Central Library has several
 important collections while the School has particularly close partnerships with The Leeds Library,
 the oldest private subscription library in the country. Researchers have used the latter’s rich
 nineteenth-century collections as the basis for funded research (Bennett’s Sadler Seminar series
 and Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship on the Unquiet Library) and played a central role in
 the Library’s 250th anniversary celebrations in 2018 (Mussell). The nearby British Library at
 Boston Spa also provides a valuable resource for all researchers.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The School sustains research collaborations that generate wider impact for a range of
 beneficiaries through a number of pathways. Advice and mentorship from DoRI, DoI, and other
 experienced researchers, as well as strategic investment in research groups and stand-alone
 research and impact funds, help to develop externally-funded projects that support
 collaborations with partners locally, nationally, and internationally. The provision of research
 days, research leave, and other resources in the School enables researchers to continue
 working with collaborators between funded projects while helping them identify new activities

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 that might attract further funding. For instance, the School’s Impact Fund can enable initial
 meetings with partners that might lead to a bid to the Cultural Institute’s IGNITE fund for
 engagement work and the preparation of a larger funding application.

 a) Researchers in the School foster academic partnerships in the region. The School played a
 significant role in the development of the Northern Theory Network and the Northern Network for
 Medical Humanities. Its members also contribute to the Leeds Centre for Victorian Studies
 (based at Leeds Trinity University) and Nineteenth-Century Americanists in the North. The
 School also maintains longstanding partnerships with established cultural institutions in the
 region, such as Opera North, West Yorkshire Playhouse, Thackray Medical Museum, and the
 Brontë Parsonage Museum. Armitage, for example, was commissioned to curate an exhibition,
 including specially written poems, at the Brontë Museum in Haworth on the bicentenary of
 Branwell Brontë’s birth in 2017, while Centre CHoP has collaborated with the Leeds Industrial
 Museum in Armley on public events on industrial print heritage. Through such relationships,
 research in the School enriches the cultural life of Leeds and the region. For example, the Donut
 Pilot Project, led by Orozco in collaboration with the Schools of Geography and Performance
 and Cultural Industries, and funded by Leeds City Council and the University, worked with
 fourteen small-scale arts organisations located outside the thriving city centre to study their role
 in communities which have been generally perceived to have low cultural engagement. The
 Leeds Poetry Centre has a longstanding partnership with Peepal Tree Press, hosting readings
 for its writers, organising a symposium for its thirty year celebration (2018), and working on a
 project to research its archive (Whale). For their Wellcome Trust Seed Award, Augmenting the
 Body, Murray and DeFalco worked with the Prosthetics & Orthotics Unit at Seacroft Hospital.

 b) At the national level, researchers from the School have made valuable contributions to public
 policy development. For example, Christiana Gregoriou’s Transnational Human Trafficking
 project produced a policy document and hosted a symposium involving the police, civil servants,
 key charities, filmmakers and writers, as well as academics from different disciplines. Julia
 Snell’s longstanding interest in dialogic teaching resulted in her book, Better than Best Practice:
 Developing Teaching and Learning through Dialogue, being given to over 100 primary school
 teachers in 2015 as part of a research intervention funded by the Educational Endowment
 foundation. Snell’s research was incorporated into IRIS Connect’s e-module on Classroom Talk
 and Effective Feedback, which has been used by over 16,000 teachers to date, and her
 evidence to the Oracy All-Party-Parliamentary Group Speak for Change was cited in their report.
 Other significant national cultural contributions include Taylor-Batty’s collaborations with the
 British Film Institute on their retrospective of Pinter films and with the Jamie Lloyd theatre
 company on their Pinter at the Pinter Season. Central to the Land Lines project (Huggan and
 Higgins), a national competition to find the UK’s favourite nature book was launched on the
 BBC’s Autumnwatch, and brought scholars, writers, and representatives of wildlife organisations,
 together on its selection panel.

 c) Thirdly, the School has established a number of important international collaborations with
 academic and non-academic partners. Since 2015, Plastow has worked with numerous arts and
 community groups in Kenya, Uganda, and Malawi, helping them to set up sustainable projects
 addressing issues of sexual health and environmental concerns that will persist beyond periods
 of funding including: the development of a biofuel briquette-making project; a film unit; and
 community campaigns for municipal reform (see Impact Case Study). The ENHANCE project
 supported PGR research and training in a network that included both local institutions in the UK
 (Yorkshire Water, Yorkshire Wildlife Trust) and European partners in Germany (Stiftung Bundnis
 Mensch & Tier), Italy (Capennori Research Centre for Zero Waste) and Sweden (Dagens

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Nyheter); and Arctic Encounters worked with the Leeds International Film Festival and a
 Yorkshire-based tour operator (InnTravel) specializing in tours to the Arctic, as well as Visit
 Greenland, the national tourism agency, and partners in Norway and Denmark (see Impact Case
 Study) .

 We have developed projects that make sustained interventions in topics of broad public interest
 such as cultural history and politics (Political Wall Murals of Northern Ireland) and the
 environment (Land Lines; Arctic Encounters). The School’s researchers have worked with
 patient groups, care providers, and public health bodies (Murray; Plastow); commercial
 companies such as tour operators (Huggan); teachers and education providers (Snell); and arts
 and heritage groups (Orozco; Douglas; Whale). They also engage frequently with local and
 national media. Bennett and Mullin, for example, have appeared on BBC Radio 4’s In Our Time,
 Bennett twice to discuss Melville and Wharton, Mullin to discuss Joyce. Denis Flannery
 appeared on BBC Radio 6 to discuss David Bowie. Douglas appeared on BBC 1 Breakfast and
 other news programmes to discuss Dialect and Heritage. Finally, the School also hosts regular
 public engagement activities, from annual public lectures (British Academy Lecture; C.L. Oakley
 Lecture in Medical Humanities; Arthur Ravenscroft Lecture in Postcolonial Studies; English
 Language Public Lecture) to the many readings and events organised by the Leeds Poetry
 Centre.

 Moreover, the School continues to make major contributions to the sustainability of the discipline
 and the wider research base, as detailed below.

 The following academic and literary journals are currently edited from the School: James Joyce
 Broadsheet (Brown), International Journal of Speech, Language and the Law (Alison May);
 Moving Worlds: A Journal of Transcultural Writings (Murray); Performing Ethos: An International
 Journal of Ethics in Theatre and Performance (Orozco); Poetry and Audience; The Seventeenth
 Century (Hammond, Associate Editor); Shakespeare [Routledge] (Greatley-Hirsch); and Stand
 Magazine (Whale). Special issues of academic journals edited during the census period include:
 Literature, Medicine, Health, Moving Worlds, 19.2 (2019) (Barker); Language and Socialism,
 Keywords: A Journal of Cultural Materialism, Autumn 2016 (Crowley); Digital Shakespeares:
 Innovations, Interventions, Mediations, The Shakespearean International Yearbook 14 (2014)
 (Greatley-Hirsch); Environmental Humanities Approaches to Climate Change, Humanities, 8/9,
 2019-20 (Higgins and Somervell); Environmental Humanities, Green Letters: Studies in
 Ecocriticism (23.4 [2019]) (Huggan); One Green Field, Critical Survey 29.1, March 2017
 (Marland); Down on the Farm: agriculture and environment, Green Letters, Autumn 2020
 (Marland and Somervell); New Diasporas, New Directions, Etudes anglaises: revue du monde
 anglophone, 70 (1), 2017 (McLeod); Fictions of Speculation, Journal of American Studies, 49.4,
 2015 (Carroll); and Ottoman Transcultural Memories, Memory Studies, 12.5, 2019 (Prosser).

 Researchers serving on editorial and advisory boards include: Barker: Journal of Literary and
 Cultural Disability Studies and Disability Studies and the Global South; Batt: General Editor, The
 Medieval Translator Series (Turnhout: Brepols); Bennett: Journal of American Studies; Brennan:
 The Hakluyt Society and The Sidney Journal; Butler: The Ben Jonson Journal; Crowley: Key
 Words: A Journal of Cultural Materialism, Estudios Irlandeses, Stockholm University Press:
 Stockholm English Studies, and Consultant and specialist contributor to the Oxford English
 Dictionary; Greatley-Hirsch: The Thomas Nashe Project (OUP; 2017–) and Journal of Marlowe
 Studies; Hammond: General Editor of Longman Annotated English Poets; Huggan: Ariel, Green
 Letters, Postcolonial Text and founding co-editor of Liverpool UP's Postcolonialism Across the

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Disciplines; McLeod: Adoption and Culture, Journal of Postcolonial Writing, South Asian Writing
 in English; Murray: Series co-editor for Medical and Health Humanities, Bloomsbury; Series
 Editor for Representations: Health, Disability, Culture and Society, Liverpool UP; Mussell:
 Victorian Periodicals Review; Victorian Review; Journal of Victorian Culture, 19: Interdisciplinary
 Studies in the Long Nineteenth Century; Nicholls: Journal of Commonwealth Literature, Eastern
 African Literary and Cultural Studies; Plastow: African Theatre; Searle: The Complete Works of
 James Shirley (OUP, 2019-); Snell: Journal of Language and Discrimination; and Taylor-Batty:
 Co-Editor of the Methuen Drama Engage series for Bloomsbury.

 Membership of review colleges for funding councils and prestigious national associations
 includes: The British Academy (FBAs Butler: Paul Hammond; Crowley; Plastow); Royal Society
 of the Arts (Hammond; Huggan); Wellcome Trust (the Medical Humanities Expert Review Group
 for Investigator and Collaborative Awards was chaired by Murray from 2015-20; Barker); AHRC
 (Bennett; Higgins; Nicholls; Orozco; Somervell); ESRC (Snell); and Leverhulme Trust (Greatley-
 Hirsch; Higgins; Mussell). Researchers also review widely for funding bodies around the world,
 including: American Academy in Berlin; Australian Research Council; Austrian Science Fund;
 European Research Council; European Science Foundation; European Union Horizon 2020
 programme (JPI Cultural Heritage); Flanders Research Foundation; Fund for Scientific
 Research-FNRS Belgium; Government of Ireland Research Fellowship Schemes; Irish Research
 Council for Humanities and Social Sciences; National Research Foundation of South Africa;
 Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council (Canada); Swiss National Science
 Foundation; University of Missouri Research Board; and Wissenschaftsrat, Germany.

 During the census period, members of the School have acted as peer reviewers for a total of
 133 academic journals and for numerous academic publishers, including: Anthem, Bloomsbury,
 Boydell and Brewer, Broadview Press, Bucknell UP, California UP, Cambridge UP, Edinburgh
 UP, Fordham UP, Irish Academic Press, Liverpool UP, Manchester UP, McGill-Queens UP,
 Michigan UP, Missouri UP, Ohio UP, Open Book, Oxford UP, Palgrave Macmillan, Pluto Press,
 Routledge, SAGE, SUNY Press, Taylor & Francis, Toronto UP, Wiley-Blackwell.

 The School’s researchers are regularly invited as keynote speakers at academic conferences
 across the UK and internationally: since 2014 countries include Australia, Austria, Belgium,
 Canada, China, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
 Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, Netherlands,
 Norway, Poland, Portugal, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan,
 Uganda, United States, and Vietnam. In addition, our researchers give public lectures and
 participate in public events in regional, national, and international settings, including: the Being
 Human Festival (Leeds, 2016-18); Bibliotherapy workshops (Leeds, Bristol, Edinburgh,
 Tubingen, 2016-18); Big Lit Festival, Gatehouse of Fleet (2018); Hull City of Culture (2017);
 Ilkley Literature Festival (see details above); Klangfarbentext: UK-German Concrete Poetry
 Festival (Munich, 2020); and Nordic Poetry Festival (York).




                                                                                                Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Finally, the quality and standing of the School’s research has been recognized by a number of
 personal awards and prizes (excluding funding for research projects): Armitage: Poet Laureate
 (2018) and the PEN Award for Translation for Pearl (2017); Bennett: winner of the 2019 Arthur
 Miller Prize by the British Association for American Studies; Campanello: Inaugural Markievicz
 Bursary winner from Ireland's Arts Council and the Department of Culture, Heritage and the
 Gaeltacht (2019); Crowley: elected Fellow of the English Association (2014); Davies: Bodily Pain
 in Romantic Literature shortlisted for the British Association for Romantic Studies First Book
 Prize 2015 and for the University English Book Prize 2015 for the best scholarly book by an
 early-career academic; Higgins: Winner of the Association of the Study of Literature and the
 Environment-UKI/Orkney Science Festival public lecture competition (2018); Prosser: Hazel
 Rowley Prize for Best Proposal from a First-time Biographer, 2020; and Rickard: Writing the
 Monarch in Jacobean England selected as one of the Choice Outstanding Academic Titles for
 2016.




                                                                                          Page 19
