Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Institution: University of the Arts London

Unit of Assessment: 32 - Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

University of the Arts London (UAL) is Europe’s largest specialist arts and design
University, bringing together six colleges (Camberwell/Chelsea/Wimbledon/Central
Saint Martins/London College of Fashion and London College of Communication). It is a
specialist HEI, rated second in the world (QS University World Rankings 2020 and
2021) for its creative education and knowledge creation.


The University’s activities across teaching, research and knowledge exchange are
strategically framed by values that promote diversity and an international outlook as
reflected by our staff and student cohort. We also embrace the challenge of intradisciplinary
and collaborative working to engage contemporary issues of concern including climate
crisis, equality, sustainability, social justice, creative innovation, and resilient healthy
communities. The four themes laid out in our strategic vision for our REF2014 submission
articulate our approach to these challenges: Living with Environmental Change; Lifelong
Health and Wellbeing; Digital Futures; and Community Resilience. These have guided us in
building a vision around which the individual colleges cohere to pursue research, and which
connects research, knowledge exchange and teaching activities in a shared network of
values and thematics. This connectivity across the University lends a vitality and focus to
what we do which is enhanced through our collaborative projects with our communities,
publics, and other stakeholders. For UAL, culture and creativity are fundamentally
collaborative and engaged, undertaken with a broad range of publics, drawing meaning and
value from interactions and relationships with others.


Structure
Governance and monitoring of research is delivered through a committee and planning
network that directs the individual college structures. The overarching University Research
Committee (URC) is chaired by the University PVC for Research (currently Professor
Jeremy Till) supported by the University Dean of Research (up to January 2021, Professor
Oriana Baddeley). URC oversees the college-level research committees, monitors
research centres and directs strategic planning for research. It receives and scrutinises
detailed annual reports from research centres and colleges, including data on funding,
outputs, impact, esteem, staffing and activities. Based on a peer review of these reports,
URC feeds back recommendations back. URC has oversight of funding across the


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


University and set the strategy for this REF submission. This ensures a consistency of
support and directed focus whilst respecting individual college and centre research
cultures. At college level researchers and centres are directly supported by a College
Associate Dean of Research (ADR) who is responsible for developing research and
initiatives. College research is managed and monitored through the College Research
Committees, which report up into URC. The new Institutes referred to below are each
overseen by a management board, which in turn reports into URC.


A University Research Degrees Sub-Committee (URDSC) is responsible for the PGR work
at UAL, and reports to URC. Monitoring and support for elements of PGR work is delegated
to College committees (CRDSC) which make initial judgements on student progress that
are further scrutinised at university level by URDSC. Alongside the two key university
committees is a Research Ethics Sub-committee (RESC) which has the final overview of all
research ethics work.


A central Research Management and Administration (RMA) department supports funding
bid development, research project monitoring and finances, and research student progress
and training. Until January 2021 this unit was run by the UAL Dean of Research working
with a Director of Research Administration and supported by individual College Associate
Deans of Research (Professors Felicity Colman, Tom Corby, Malcolm Quinn and Pratap
Rughani-), but this structure will be strengthened further by the appointment of the
University PVC Research, Knowledge Exchange and Enterprise responsible for an
expanded portfolio. Planning and implementation of day-to-day research issues are
delegated by URC to a research management group (RMG) chaired by the Dean of
Research and made up of the Directors of Research Administration and of Knowledge
Exchange, College Associate Deans of Research and representatives of Research Centres
and Institutes.


College activity is supplemented by nine University Research Centres; these are well
established with international reputations: Afterall; Centre for Circular Design (CCD);
Centre for Fashion Curation (CfFC); Centre for Sustainable Fashion (CSF); Creative
Research into Sound Arts Practice (CRiSAP); Design Against Crime (DAC); Photography
and the Archive Research Centre (PARC); Research Centre for Transnational Art, Identity
and Nation (TrAIN). Most recently the new Centre of Fashion Business and Innovation
Research was approved by URC in 2019 and as described below, the University has now
established four cross-college Institutes. These are: Creative Computing Institute (CCI),




                                                                                          Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Decolonising Arts Institute (DeAI) Social Design Institute (SDI) and Institute of Fashion
Textiles and Technologies (IFTT).


Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact
In its Research Strategy 2014-2020 submitted to the last REF, the University committed to
a set of key objectives (A to E) which formed the basis of our work for the current REF2021
period. Each objective was supplemented by a detailed plan monitored by UAL’s research
committees, groups, and forums. Colleges and Centres were asked to report progress
against these objectives. They have also allowed for targeting of resources and support
across UAL and have led to the formation of new initiatives such as the UAL Institutes. The
following lists some examples of the way objectives have been achieved.


Objective A: Support research which expanded and enhanced public understanding of the
University’s key subject areas and their social and cultural impact.


Our impact case studies demonstrate how the dissemination of our research intentionally
goes beyond standard academic routes. To further expand our public reach for research in
2015, the University established an annual research fortnight, now in season six,
with between 60-80 events, the majority open to the public. This university-wide activity is
supplemented by a regular public programme including conferences such as: Savage
Beauty: Alexander McQueen, organised by the Centre for Fashion Curation accompanying
the V&A exhibition (2019); Circular Transitions by Centre for Circular Design (2016); Books
and The Human by Calvert, Wright, Ross (2016, one of only 10 national events selected by
AHRC as part of their 10th Anniversary Celebrations, aimed at public impact).


Additionally, between 2014-2017 UAL delivered on its commitment to appoint twelve new
cross-university Visiting Professors with public engagement as their remit and introduced
the role of ‘Practitioner in Residence’ attached to each of its programme areas (over 30
across the University). This initiative produced high profile public programmes that
enhanced student experience and impact on the wider community. These included Ezio
Manzini’s Culture of Resilience (2014-16) and Sonia Boyce and Paul Goodwin’s Curating
Carnival (March 2015), a procession, sound and performance which coincided with the
anniversary of the first Caribbean Carnival to take place in London at the nearby St
Pancras Town Hall in 1959.


The scheme enhanced the roles of existing staff and brought other major figures to
research debates at UAL. Existing UAL Professors: Rob Kesseler, Lucy Orta, David Toop


                                                                                        Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


and Sonia Boyce were given greater cross-university roles and were joined by new
appointments including Paul Goodwin, Isaac Julien and Ezio Manzini. Practitioners
in Residence included key researchers such as Hal Foster and Griselda Pollock.


Objective B: Develop the quality and depth of its research activities, building on proven
areas of research excellence and supporting the growth of new ways of thinking about the
core subject areas through cross-disciplinary collaboration


In 2014 UAL expanded its research through cross-disciplinary partnership and listed areas
perceived as likely to be most productive. Examples of work in pursuit of this agenda
include:


Fashion with partners in medicine, psychology and sociology
London College of Fashion is a co-founder of the Global Disability Innovation Hub aimed at
changing perceptions about disability. The project is led by University College
London working with Stratford East at the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park (QEOP) and
includes Loughborough London, Sadler’s Wells and the V&A.


Documentary film and photography with partners in anthropology and political science
In partnership with King’s College London’s War Studies department and London School of
Economics and Political Science, UAL developed the AHRC-funded Art and Reconciliation:
Conflict, Culture and Community project (UAL £153,956.80, overall funding
£644,341, 2016-2018), an investigation of reconciliation in different geographical regions
which interrogated the use of art in reconciliation initiatives and the potential of artistic
practices to play a role in inter-communal conflict resolution, remembrance, forgetting and
forgiving.


Graphic design with partners in computing and information technologies
The UAL Creative Computing Institute (CCI) was developed out of combining existing work
within the University’s graphics portfolio with new specialist expertise from computer
science, design research and creative practice. It has led to new research
opportunities and a public platform to explore innovative computer science within a creative
practice and industry setting.


Design with partners in social policy and urban planning
The Public Collaboration Lab (PCL), is an AHRC-funded research project that enabled
London Borough of Camden and University of the Arts London to find synergies between


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


local government’s operational delivery and learning objectives, towards a portfolio of ‘live’
collaborative design projects that redefine ways of developing and delivering services. This
work feeds into UAL’s wider goal of putting the ‘arts’ into STEM: STEAM, highlighting the
value of participatory art and design practices to social innovation.


Fine art and curation with partners in climate science
Materialising Data Embodying Climate Change is a 3-year (2019-2022) AHRC-funded
research project in collaboration with the British Antarctic Survey which aims to devise and
explore the potential for ‘empathic encounters’ with climate data. UAL are also the creative
partner in the Horizon 2020 funded Deepice Consortium (2021 –2024), led by Centre
national de la recherche scientifique addressing the role of greenhouse gas on past climate
changes.


Fine art and design with political theories of race and post-colonialism
Black Artists & Modernism (BAM),a 3-year research project funded by the AHRC as a
collaboration between University of the Arts London and Middlesex University, aiming to re-
position fine art and curatorial practices at UAL and in partner institutions.


Objective C: Provide a sustainable and supportive research environment for staff
and students
The delivery of this objective is covered in the People section below.


Objective D: Develop the relationship of its research activities with SMEs, professions, and
industry partners


Work relating to themes of social responsibility, environmental sustainability, and cultural
understanding through the arts, has been prioritised to address this objective. This has built
on the knowledge base of UAL’s Sustainable Fashion, Circular Design and Design Against
Crime Research Centres who since 2018 have collaborated with the new institutes for
Social Design and Fashion, Textiles and Technologies. This research fostered an
enterprise culture that recognised the value of the knowledge produced across all
disciplines at UAL, understanding that impact is not only linked to commercial gain, but
encompasses a wealth of societal and cultural beneficiaries. A key example in this area is
the Creative R&D Partnership The Business of Fashion, Textiles and Technology (BFTT-
£5.5 million funded by the AHRC Creative Industries Cluster Programme), focused on
delivering innovation within the entire fashion and textile creative production and supply




                                                                                         Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


chain. Other examples are covered in the impact case studies, particularly those for Social
Design for Collaborative Innovation and The Fashion Paradox.


Objective E: Working across its archives, collections, and galleries to strengthen both
physical and digital resources to support new research initiatives, expanding audiences
and enhancing the impact of its research outputs and activities.


The research potential of UAL’s archives and special collections were made more apparent
to external audiences through targeted research activities exploring debates around the
archive. Two major conferences, Immaterial (13-14th May 2016) and Archives and
Embodiment (4-5th July 2019) extended public understanding of our collections. The
University also convened a series of international symposia exploring the legacy of Stanley
Kubrick’s films and their impact on filmmaking and the wider arts.


Public and Community engagement


UAL’s approach to public and community engagement (P&CE) seeks to widen access and
participation in our creative disciplines, to inspire and engage new audiences and
communities through creative and collaborative practices, and to create mutually beneficial
forms of civic partnership. UAL’s P&CE activity is embedded in our research, academic
practices and throughout our institutional strategy (2015-22) and engages with a range of
places and publics regionally, nationally, and globally. Our public programme of events,
exhibitions and performances attracts large diverse audiences. Evidence of this approach
is visible in all the UAL Impact Case Studies but particularly relevant in relation to Creative
Engagement with Environmental Crisis and Raising Voices: Visualising Untold Stories.


Knowledge Exchange


Expanding the agency of our research through Knowledge Exchange (KE) is one of UAL’s
key priorities. This aim is a central pillar of our university’s strategy which sees research,
KE and pedagogy as contiguous activities connected at a fundamental level through our
value and challenge focused enquiries. Our KE strategy also engages with other important
intersecting systems in which creative economies are situated as places. Within this
approach we share our experimental creative methodologies to drive solutions to the
increasingly complex issues that society faces. Such approaches are inherent to our
disciplines, providing UAL with significant capacity for developing impactful relationships




                                                                                           Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


with industry, policy makers and civic organisations who are increasingly open to creative
approaches to complex challenges.


During the REF period 2014-21, substantial investments were made in developing a KE
ecosystem to deliver creativity-driven solutions; these included:


   •   A dedicated KE department with strategic responsibility for managing the
       development of our research through KE activities.
   •   A KPI framework for providing a consistent set of performance measures for activity
       across all research.
   •   A Continuous Improvement Plan – enhancing UAL’s KE and research environment,
       inclusive of monitoring, evaluation, and oversight.
   •   New Institutes for research, knowledge exchange and curriculum development.
   •   Dedicated KE and research academic governance, with a committee structure
       providing oversight of research impact and KE activities.
   •   Integrated governance for management of ethical issues across research and KE.
   •   Implementation of KE academic leadership roles.
   •   Development of formal relationships with key external partners. UAL co-founded the
       Kings Cross Knowledge Quarter with the British Library, to actively engage in
       advancing research with over 100 government, academic, research, scientific and
       media organisations. Other partners include: the Greater London Authority and
       London Boroughs, the British Antarctic Survey; British Fashion Council; the
       European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN); Louvre Museum, amongst
       many others.


The following are key examples of this research-driven KE activity:


i) Knowledge arising from UAL’s Black Artists and Modernism (BAM 2015-18) was
deployed by Tate Britain, Manchester Art Gallery (amongst others) to develop collections,
development policy; archiving and accessions; curation; and the interpretation of works
within museum and gallery settings.


ii) The Design Against Crime Research Centre collaborated with Her Majesty’s Prison and
Probation Service (2018-20) to work with inmates to produce furniture designs that were
able to withstand abuse by prisoners who are known to use it to self-harm or injure.




                                                                                       Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


(iii) Research in sustainable fashion has had worldwide traction. This includes the Centre
for Sustainable Fashion’s relationship with the clothing giant ASOS (2018) to inform the
design, production, consumption, and disposal of clothing.


UAL’s future strategic aims and goals for research and impact
In the aftermath of Brexit, the Coronavirus pandemic and the new challenges facing UK
higher education, UAL, like the rest of the sector, needs to focus on how best to support its
research agenda. In addition, there has been a change of leadership with the arrival of a
new Vice-Chancellor, James Purnell, in March 2021. He will be joined later in 2021 by a new
Pro Vice-Chancellor for Research, Knowledge Exchange and Enterprise. This post will
strengthen the management and support for research across the University, as well as
giving greater visibility and representation of it at University level.


The research plan for the next REF cycle will be informed by the new university strategy that
is being shaped by the incoming Vice-Chancellor. The summer term 2021 will be a period of
internal consultation and debate around a strategy for the future success of UAL with the
expectation of launching it in Autumn 2021. This will be underpinned by a set of core
principles based around a strong intent to relate UAL’s activities across all fields to societal
impact and addressing of global challenges. There will be particular focus on issues of racial
justice and the climate emergency, as well as our engagement with the digital and creative
economies. The strategy will articulate the vital role that the creative sector can play in
collaborating with others to engage with the complexities and risks of current conditions.


The outward looking and impact-driven set of principles of the overall university strategy will
have clear implications on the research strategy for the next REF cycle. The extended
period of the 2014 REF planning cycle has meant that the existing five-year round covered
seven years; we recognise the imperative to develop new directions. The four key thematic
areas currently embedded in its research will continue to develop and transform to underpin
future planning, though their focus will shift in response to emerging societal conditions.
UAL researchers are leading or contributing to five projects funded under the COVID-19
UKRI rapid response calls, indicating how our research can be redirected in an agile way to
new challenges. We thus anticipate that the themes will be reoriented along the following
overlapping lines, and we expect synergies to accrue:


    •   Living with Environmental Change will address new urgencies marking the shift from
        climate change to climate crisis.




                                                                                          Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


   •   Lifelong Health and Wellbeing will engage with a pandemic-infused world, building
       on several successful COVID19 response research bids.
   •   Digital Futures will use the expertise of the CCI to build on existing initiatives:
       artificial intelligence, digital privacy, and their intersection with creative practice.
   •   Community Resilience will expand and build on our pioneering work in placemaking
       and community building.


The core risk to the delivery of this research strategy derives from policy-led impacts in
support of the creative arts sector and research. We will mitigate this risk by expanding and
reinforcing our collaborations with other disciplines and institutions.


How will UAL be taking research forward?


The University aims to build capacity that is strategically important within current areas of
cross-college activity, enhancing both knowledge exchange and impact. We anticipate a
further strengthening of links between KE and Research, facilitated by the appointment of a
PVC with oversight of both areas and the appointment of college-level Associate Deans of
KE who will work alongside the existing Associate Deans of Research. As part of the
university strategy, colleges are developing platforms to bring together teaching, research
and KE activities under thematic headings, allowing staff across the academic pathways to
collaborate on projects.


The expansion of practice-based research has been an important part of this REF cycle
and we are committed to continuing this strategy. The forthcoming publication of selected
Integrated Presentations of Research (IPRs) as open-access resources will allow the
university to demonstrate the methods and outcomes of practice-based research to wider
audiences. Internally this will provide important models for emerging researchers, and
externally it will confirm the impact and purpose of practice-based research to potential
stakeholders and collaborators. The critical mass of UAL Integrated Presentations of
Research (IPR) emerging from this REF submission should provide an important
contribution to knowledge in this field, and in particular the transformational impact of
practice-based research.


Of particular interest is the development of new interdisciplinary capacity through the four
new UAL Institutes, with a fifth in planning. These were identified in the 2018-20 Academic
Strategy and are intended to be the focus of mission critical cross-university initiatives in




                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


research, knowledge exchange and/or teaching. They are closely linked to existing
research activities and are tasked in bringing new opportunities to current areas of
excellence. The Institutes will also enable the development of additional capacity to
respond quickly to emerging government policy initiatives. The Institutes will supplement
the work of the existing Research Centres, which (subject to annual review) will remain.
The Institutes and Centres are encouraged to cross-fertilise and there are many examples
of close collaboration evident in research activities.


The CCI was formed in 2018 emerging from the University’s strategic initiative Digital
Futures, aimed to grow research intersecting computer science and the creative industries.
CCI has generated strong, funded collaborations leading on the £1million UKRI-funded
MIMIC Project (led by Professor Mick Grierson, research leader at CCI) in a partnership
with Google Machine Intelligence.


The SDI was formed later in 2018 as part of UAL's strategy to amplify research strengths
with a focus on social design and design for sustainability and is supported by a donation
from AKO Foundation. Initial activities built on the work of three of UAL’s specialist award-
winning Research Centres CSF, CCD and DACRC. Existing funded projects provided a
base for SDI development, including ‘Innovating Next Generation Services through
Collaborative Design’ (funded by ESRC Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund, 2018-21) and
‘Smart Regulation of Antibiotic Use in India’ (funded by ESRC and Newton-Bhabha Fund,
2018-21).


The DeAI, led by director Professor susan pui san lok, began development in 2018 as part
of UAL's strategic initiative to research strengths in postcolonial, decolonial and
intersectional feminist histories in the arts. Building on the legacies of projects at UAL over
the last three decades, the DeAI aims to lead innovative research that challenges colonial
and imperial legacies and drives social and cultural change. DeAI was shortlisted for a £3m
Research England bid in its first 6 months of operation and has secured several external
awards, including a Towards A National Collection (TANC) AHRC Foundation project grant,
(Provisional Semantics, led by the Tate with a UAL co-investigator).


UAL’s Institute of Fashion Textiles and Technologies (IFTT) was established in 2021 to
provide research and knowledge exchange leadership in the business of fashion, textiles,
and technology, within the context of both Digital Futures and Living with Environmental
Change. IFTT is aligned with the work of the Industry Strategy-funded Business of
Fashion, Textiles & Technology Creative R&D Partnership (CRDP) award (£5.5m + £3m


                                                                                        Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


industry leverage), from AHRC as part of the Creative Industry Cluster Programme (CICP).
IFTT convenes research centre expertise from across the BFTT partnership,
including UAL expertise from CCD, CSF, Centre for Fashion Business and Innovation
Research, Digital Anthropology Lab and Textile Futures Research Community.


The Institutes and current Research Centres will be important in raising UAL’s profile to
attract high-level collaborations with new partners, diversifying our research income and
spreading new expertise across existing research communities. An example of this is the
new initiative in 2021, the AKO Storytelling Institute, funded through a donation of £4m from
the AKO Foundation. This fifth UAL Institute will explore applied storytelling as a positive
transformative agent in policy, climate, healthcare, the economy, and other arenas of
societal change.


Progress towards an open research culture


UAL is committed to making our research openly available in accordance with the UKRI
Concordat on Open Research Data. The University developed a Research Data
Management Policy in 2014, updated in the context of emerging external policies. UAL
Research Online (UALRO) is globally recognized as the most prominent open access
collection of original research outputs in arts, design and media and the largest online
library to offer free open access to research within the creative arts. In 2019/20 UALRO
contained records of over 10,000 research outputs. Around 61% of these provide
downloadable documents, images, or other content; as a comparison, in an average UK
scholarly repository only about 35% of the items include content. UAL makes available
97,000 individual files attached to outputs. Between 2019 and 2020 our research was
downloaded over 200,000 times, with 81% of deposited items being available for free
download.


PhD theses are an important part of this collection - since 2012 we deposit a copy of every
thesis granted by the University and we have retrospectively digitised many of our older
theses. UALRO now lists 386 theses representing the largest specialist collection of
doctoral research in art and design worldwide. By 2019/20 these had been downloaded
186,539 times.


We have recently implemented Symplectic Elements and Symplectic Figshare for our new
data repository to build on the existing e-prints outputs of UALRO. This allows our research




                                                                                       Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


data to be accessed and re-used by researchers worldwide in a clear, free system that
is easily discoverable both via UAL and the main Symplectic Figshare hub.


Future plans include the use of this system for the greater dissemination of data, via our
own Open Access data files and monographs, especially in practice-led research.
Alongside colleagues across the sector UAL has been a key participant in the raising of
awareness around the specifics of practice-based research through the Practice Research
Advisory Group-UK (PRAG-UK) and is currently the administration home of the
organisation. Following this REF submission, we are working on making as many of our
IPRs as possible openly available through providing what we anticipate will be one of
world’s largest resources of practice-based research.


Supporting a Culture of Research Integrity


UAL is committed to and complies with the Concordat on Research Integrity, this being
supported through our policies on Good Conduct in Research, Procedures for Investigating
Allegations of Misconduct and Code of Practice on Research Ethics. Our annual Research
Integrity Statements are publicly available. The UAL Research Ethics Standards Committee
(RESC) maintains oversight of ethical issues in research and reports to URC. The
introduction of the KE Concordat will require universities to publish evidence of their
approach to ethical governance of KE. As the ethical review processes established for
research represent a robust and high-quality set of well-codified standards for the
governance of academic ethics, in 2020 UAL Academic Board approved and initiated the
integration of governance of academic ethical review for research and knowledge exchange.


The University has also invested in subject specific training and debates over contested
ethical issues as evidenced by Ethics for Making, a publicly available resource developed by
researchers at UAL as a case study which provides a space for researchers to explore
ethics in creative arts practice. Ethics for Making explores the key themes of consent,
collaboration, freedom, representation and responsibility.




2. People

Staffing Strategy and Staff Development




                                                                                      Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


The UAL Research Strategy and the People Strategy 2016 -2022, includes commitments to
engender inclusivity and build capabilities at all levels, strengthen our leadership and
management and raise research standards. The strategy sets out how UAL will further
enable research and teaching excellence by:
   •   Development of Career Pathways
Work with academic leaders to shape academic career pathways for teaching and research
to increase clarity and consistency around research, teaching and practitioner roles.
   •   Inclusivity and Engagement
Develop an inclusive and engaging culture that enables staff, in particular associate
lecturers, to better promote and support the delivery of research and teaching excellence.
   •   External Recognition
Enhance our global reputation through external recognition (e.g. NSS, standards required
under the Research Concordat, the implementation of a Teaching Excellence Framework
(TEF), preparing for REF 2021 and ensuring we comply with the necessary standards in
respect of OFSTED, QAA and other regulatory requirements.
   •   Excellence in Recruitment
Develop and apply a new set of recruitment standards and qualification requirements and
apply enhanced selection techniques.
Develop a recruitment pool for associate lecturers and visiting practitioners to make
recruitment fairer, easier and faster.


In 2017/18, following extensive consultation, UAL introduced three academic career
pathways - the teaching-orientated pathway, the knowledge exchange-orientated pathway,
and the research-orientated pathway. UAL has identified staff who have significant
responsibility for research as those staff on the research-oriented career pathway. It has
submitted outputs for the 248 members of staff who have significant responsibility for
research, with a combined FTE of 192. This represents an increase of 63% on the number of
people submitted to REF2014 and an increase of 75% on the total FTE of staff submitted to
REF2014. These increases are indicative of the success of the research strategy in
developing research capacity across the University.




               Profile of UAL staff with significant responsibility for research
                                            Significant responsibility   All academic staff
                                            for research/ submitted
                                            to REF



                                                                                        Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


White and other White background            66%                          61%
Black and other Ethnic background           13%                          11%
Prefer not to say                           4%                           4%
Not stated                                  17%                          24%


Female                                      60%                          59%
Male                                        40%                          41%


                                            Head Count          % of total submitted
          Lecturer/Fellow                   46                  19%
          Senior Lecturer/Fellow            93                  38%
          Reader/Principal Fellow           47                  19%
          Professor/Dean                    62                  25%
                                            248


The pathways are designed to be permeable, with annual opportunities for staff to request to
be moved from one to another according to their developing academic priorities. Staff on all
three pathways, whether new or established, have opportunities for development as
researchers through access to college research funding and research mentoring. This
supports staff who wish to switch pathway at different points in their career, as well as the
development of researchers within the research pathway itself. Academics are placed on a
pathway through an open, transparent process; all academic staff on the three pathways
teach as part of their contract. A set of criteria for ECRs to be allocated to research-
orientated academic career pathway was introduced as part of the Academic Career
Pathways project in 2017, in recognition of different expectations of this group in terms of
research productivity. All three pathways have a route to Professor. A majority of Professors
on the research pathway are women and there are currently six Professors from ethnic
minority backgrounds on the research pathway.


UAL’s strategy is to develop greater opportunities for staff to produce world-leading research
that impacts on a wide international audience through providing a sustainable and supportive
research environment by:


   •   Increasing external funding for research through pre-application support; more
       incentives for making grant applications; increased training for early and mid-career




                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


       researchers in funding applications; and linking with expertise in enterprise to
       diversify support for research.
   •   Implementing an enhanced sabbatical leave offer (targeted particularly at mid-career
       researchers and those in course management roles).
   •   Expanding our provision for post-doctoral opportunities.
   •   Extending supervisory capacity in areas of strategic importance for PGR growth.
   •   Further developing cross-course/college subject communities’ potential for research
       project development.


Responsibility for the implementation of the research staffing strategy across UAL sits with
the ADRs for the four UAL Colleges, as well as with the Directors of Research Centres and
Institutes. College Research Committees, meeting once a term and chaired by the ADRs,
have an oversight of research staff development, as well as reviewing the annual reports on
research activity and researcher development in the colleges and their associated Research
Centres. Researcher development is also progressed through membership and chairing of
research and research degree committees at university and college level, with particular
attention paid to the inclusion of PhD student representatives and ECRs, as well as the
development of research management and leadership skills through the allocation of
reviewing tasks and chairing roles. Within colleges, researcher development is also offered
by staff with responsibility for providing advice and support for the initiation and progression
of research funding bids, complementing the support for bid development offered by RMA.


Research Centres undertake researcher development in specific fields. One UAL Research
entre, the CCD (established 2017), was founded on a programme of researcher
development that started over twenty years ago, offered to textiles teaching staff with the
aim of developing sustainable design strategies. It is now focused on the development of
circular design skills and approaches both within UAL and in the textiles industry through
funded projects. Another UAL Research Centre, DACRC, has developed staff and student
researchers who can work ethically with prison inmates on joint projects of design thinking
and making. CRISAP and the CSF both have a close association with MA courses that
contribute to the development of doctoral research in these fields.


HR Excellence in ResearchUAL is committed to supporting researchers in the development
of their careers and has formalised its commitment to the Concordat to Support the Career
Development of Researchers with a successful application for recognition under the ‘HR
Excellence in Research’ scheme in 2019. The award recognises the steps that UAL is



                                                                                        Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


making to the careers of our researchers and the development of a thriving research
community.




PRAs/Personal Research Plan


The Personal Research Plan is used to identify and agree upon research outputs and
activities over a three-year period. It is also an opportunity to ascertain what support and
resources may be needed to fulfil the Plan. Once agreed, the Plan is monitored alongside
the annual (post-probation) Planning, Review and Appraisal (PRA) process. The appraisal
process aims to provide a formal opportunity for staff to reflect on their achievements,
receive constructive feedback on their contribution, agree a work plan for the year ahead
and receive guidance and support. The PRA is also used to discuss movement between
academic pathways, and to put into place any support required to effect this. As part of the
PRA process, an appraisee who has any research outputs which have been publicly
disseminated for the first time in the last 12 months is expected to ensure that these are
available on UALRO.


Promotions


The Professorial Sub-Committee reports directly to Academic Board and is responsible for
oversight of the appointment of Professors, Readers, Visiting Professors and Visiting
Fellows. To align with the Academic Pathways, UAL appoints Professors and Readers in
three categories; Research, Teaching and Knowledge Exchange. While applicants for
Professorship are required to make a case for an outstanding record of academic
achievement, and/or strategic academic leadership in one category, they may also
demonstrate achievements at a high level across one or both of the remaining pathways.


Early Career Researcher Scheme


UAL has a number of initiatives to support the development of staff in various stages of their
careers. The Early Career Researcher (ECR) scheme provides a training programme
delivered by the UAL Teaching and Learning Exchange and remission from teaching
activity. Research-only staff, including those on fixed term contracts, can apply for the
training programme part of the scheme. Annual reviews of the programme by the Teaching
and Learning exchange in collaboration with Research Management and Administration
ensures continued development of the programme to meet the needs of early career


                                                                                       Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


researchers. The University recognises the importance of the contribution of its Early Career
Researchers in bringing diversity, creativity and sustaining high quality research. UAL is fully
committed to valuing and promoting career development for our Early Career
Researchers. Over the assessment period 111 staff successfully applied for the
programme. Many of those who have been included in the submission have been through
the ECR scheme, including some who now hold research leadership roles, including
Goodwin (Director of the TrAIN Research Centre), Goldsworthy (co-Director of CCD) and
Steeds (Convenor of RNUAL).


Research Mentoring Scheme


UAL's Research Mentoring Scheme aims to give academic staff a clearer view of their role in
research, supporting and developing their research career. The scheme is voluntary, and
open to all academic staff on any pathway in full time or part-time roles. Requests to apply
for a research mentor are made as part of the PRA process, followed by a short transparent
application process. The organisation and process of research mentoring is distinguished by
its confidentiality; no formal records are kept at mentoring meetings. Research mentoring
meetings are guided by an empathetic approach, an awareness of the complexities of
the researcher’s circumstances and the contexts in which research takes place. Mentoring
also takes place through Research Centres, both internally in relation to research bid
development (CRISAP, CCD), and externally to deliver a tailored mentoring programme to
three MSEs as part of an AHRC bid (CSF).


Sabbatical Leave Scheme


The University of the Arts London has a well-established research sabbatical leave scheme.
The aim of this scheme is to enable eligible staff from across the University to take paid
sabbatical leave funded by the University, to work intensively on a research project.
Equivalent schemes were introduced for those on the Knowledge Exchange and Teaching
oriented pathways in 2018/19. Sabbaticals are awarded through an open and transparent
applications process with guidance clearly setting out eligibility and assessment
criteria. Applications are reviewed and assessed by RMG. During the assessment period 88
applications for sabbatical leave were approved over 11 rounds (61% female, 39% male).
The sabbatical scheme has resulted in many of the outputs included in this submission and
the underpinning research for impact case studies. Among the outputs generated by projects
supported by the sabbatical scheme are: Transplant and Life (2017) Wynne; Bentham and
the Arts (2020), Quinn; Civil Rites (2017), Zimmerman; Fragmentation of the Photographic


                                                                                        Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Image in the Digital Age (2019), Rubenstein; Creative Representations of Place (2018)
Barnes; A Critical Analysis of Practices of Collecting Fashionable Dress (2018), De La Haye.




Supervisor Support Training


The Supervising Research Degrees course is a 20-credit taught unit, delivered by the
Teaching, Learning and Employability Exchange, available as a standalone short course
to all doctoral supervisors at UAL. When new doctoral supervisors join supervision teams,
they are invited to apply to undertake the course within the same academic year, ensuring
that new supervisors join a developmental community of practice as they begin to supervise.
The unit is offered to supervisors in UAL's external partner colleges (whose PGR degrees
UAL validates) as well as being open to external applicants.


The Supervising Research Students unit aims to support staff in reflecting on and developing
their supervisory practice. It explores the experience of supervising students in both theory
and practice-based MPhil or PhD degrees in art and design disciplines. The course includes
material on ethical and inclusive practices, fostering reflections about academic identity. The
unit is accredited by the Staff and Educational Development Association (SEDA), as part of
their Professional Development Framework. Participants who successfully complete the unit
also receive a certificate from SEDA, a nationally recognised professional body for
academics in the UK. During the assessment period the module had been completed by
135 staff, including seven from partner colleges.


Research Students


UAL has more than doubled the number of doctoral degrees awarded (163) compared to the
previous REF cycle . UAL has over 250 PhD students, 71% UK, 14% EU and 15% overseas
students. In the 2019/20 academic year the profile of our PGR students was 74% female,
19% BAME; 25% had a declared disability.


The University has put in place measures to ensure that doctoral students are supported in
the pandemic, including revised guidance on research ethics procedures for PhD students,
additional financial support for funded studentships and the provision of online vivas. The
progress of research students is monitored through research degrees committees in each
college (CRDSCs), reporting to the University Research Degrees Sub-Committee (URDSC).
Each college at UAL has a physical and scholarly infrastructure to support the development


                                                                                       Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


of PhD students as researchers, including dedicated workspaces for PhD students, financial
support to attend conferences and publish and exhibit outcomes, support for PhD student
exhibitions and displays of research, as well as local research training and development that
complements the mandatory Research Network UAL (RNUAL) PhD research training
programme. UAL also has a PhD student-led journal, JAWS (Journal of Arts Writing by
Students) which serves as a platform for peer-to-peer engagement by doctoral students.
After three issues as a UAL-based publication, JAWS was the first student-led journal to
secure a contract with Intellect publishing.


The development of research degree students as researchers is also fostered through
external collaboration. In 2015/16, British School at Athens embarked on a new joint initiative
with UAL, offering an annual arts residency in Greece, supported by a bursary and with
studio and accommodation provided to practice-based PhD students at UAL. From 2016 to
2019, the UAL Mead Rome Residency also provided three practice-based PhD students with
a four-week residency, living and working in a studio at the British School at Rome.


The approach to the recruitment of doctoral students is both internal, through progression
from MA programmes which have links to research centres, and external, through open
evenings and email contact with staff by potential applicants. Recruitment occurs at two
points throughout the year, the first in the autumn term (linked to studentship applications)
and the second in Spring. Applications are centralised through the PGR section of RMA,
considered by colleges using the SITS system and selected for interview.


Validating Partnerships


Supporting research across the sector UAL is the validating partner for MPhil and PhD
awards for University of Norwich, University of the Creative Arts, Falmouth University and
University of Bournemouth. During the assessment period, 43 students from partner colleges
completed their PhDs.


Doctoral Training Centres and Partnerships


During the assessment period UAL has been a partner in three Research Council-funded
doctoral training initiatives. UAL was also awarded an AHRC BGP1 for post graduate
studentships during the previous assessment period. The final cohort of awards were made
for the 2013-14 academic year.




                                                                                       Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


LDoc
Funded by a UK Arts and Humanities Research Council Centres for Doctoral Training (CDT)
block grant, the London Doctoral Design Centre (LDoc) was a collaboration between the
Royal College of Art (RCA), Kingston University (KU) and University of the Arts London
(UAL). The Centre has provided cross-institutional PhD studentships and training, working in
collaboration with key industry partners across five cohorts of students from 2014/15 to
2018/19. LDoc offered a cross-institution specialist Design Research Training and
Knowledge Exchange Programme, developed in response to the changing needs of an
emerging generation of design researchers.


Techne 1 and 2
The Techne research funding and doctoral training partnership was initially funded through
an AHRC doctoral training partnership (DTP1) award and provided PhD scholarships and
training in London and the South-East for five cohorts over the period from 2014/5 to
2018/19. In 2018, the consortium was awarded funding for a further five cohorts from
2019/20 to 2023/24 through an AHRC Doctoral Training Partnership 2 (DTP2) award. The
Techne consortium comprises 10 universities in London and the South-East and has almost
60 AHRC studentships to award each year across a range of arts and humanities
disciplines. Techne supports outstanding students pursuing the ‘craft’ of research through
innovative, interdisciplinary and creative approaches across the range of the arts and
humanities. UAL’s commitment to the scheme includes the provision of matched funding for
awards made to UAL PhD students.


Collaborative Doctoral Awards
Collaborative Doctoral Awards (CDAs) are intended to encourage and develop collaboration
between Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) and non-HEI organisations and businesses.
UAL’s strong links with industry and design practices has aided development of practice-
based and practice-led research partnerships in art and design fields and it has been
awarded seven CDAs during the assessment period, including three through Techne:
   •   V&A -Wardrobes: The challenge of personal collections of clothing in fashion studies
       and art and design Museums.
   •   Tate - Picturing Whiteness: Race Representation in the National Collection of British
       Art 1700s to Now.
   •   Museum of London - Biography and Fashion Collections: Developing a dress-specific
       acquisition and cataloguing methodology using the Francis Golding Collections.




                                                                                        Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


   •   British Library - Collecting UK digital comics: social, cultural and technological factors
       for cultural institutions.
   •   Google - MIMIC: Musically Intelligent Machines Interacting Creatively.




UAL/King’s College London PhD Studentships


UAL initiated a partnership with King’s College London in 2016 to bring together staff and
students on research, teaching and public engagement to tackle public policy issues. A joint
collaboration between the Policy Institute at King’s and the Innovation Insights Hub at UAL, it
presented a unique context for students to explore, develop and assess the intersections
between design and policy. It included two joint PhD studentships bringing together UAL’s
design thinking and King’s policy expertise, to contribute to the emerging field of policy
innovation.




                 Funded PhD studentships during the assessment period:


                 BGP1 (Final cohort)                          4
                 Techne 1                                     30
                 LDOC                                         16
                 Techne 2                                     5
                 UAL/King’s                                   2
                 AHRC CDAs                                    4
                 UAL funded studentships                      28
                 Total                                        89




Monitoring and support mechanisms


Post Graduate Research Programmes are managed and administered centrally by the Post
Graduate Research (PGR) section which sits within RMA. The PGR Section manages
processes and administration relating to the PGR journey from application through to award
and becoming a member of UAL Alumni. It delivers Post Graduate Research Student
services, including academic and administrative support, quality governance and planning, in
line with the standards and processes set by the University's Research Degrees Sub-



                                                                                        Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Committee and the University's Academic Registry. PGR students are admitted to one of
UAL's colleges and the PGR Section supports processes within each college through
administrative support to the College Research Degrees Sub Committees.


Research degree student representatives are members of CRDSC and College Research
Committee meetings, and at URDSC and URC meetings. Student representatives are
nominated each academic year by the student body.
The PGR Section supports RNUAL offering research orientation, skills training, and a
platform for students to progress their work presentation and discussion. Studentship
competitions, applications and awards are managed by the PGR section, which is
responsible for reporting to external awarding bodies. Collaboration and partnership
agreements are developed through the PGR Section in conjunction with partners and UAL
legal team.


RNUAL (Research Network UAL)


The RNUAL programme supports student progression in three ways:
   •   Navigating candidates through the research journey, elucidating what is needed at
       different stages.
   •   Providing skills training and nurturing career development across the practice-based
       arts, humanities and social sciences.
   •   Offering an academic forum in which students can platform and discuss their
       research at two critical moments (end of the first year, in the Summer Symposium;
       and as part of the Confirmation process that leads to MPhil or PhD pathways, in the
       Spring Symposium).



A mixture of compulsory and optional elements ensures that all students have core support
and can specialise. Sessions are led by UAL academics with additional contributions
from industry experts. The programme dovetails with UAL provision by Library Services and
Academic Support; the Teaching, Learning and Employability Exchange; Shades of Noir,
The Centre for Race & Practice Based Social Justice; and Student Services. The Convenor
of RNUAL represents a personal anchor for the programme and operates as a point of
contact well-positioned for diverse academic and pastoral enquiries from students.


There are three RNUAL Blocks, each lasting a week (September Induction; February Spring
Symposium; June Summer Symposium). In 2017 two study days were added to the



                                                                                       Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


programme. The Registration Study Day which targets those at the outset of their studies,
typically covers writing a research project proposal, embedding ethical considerations within
research design and managing references. Presentations followed by Q&A sessions are
balanced with practical workshops that, while addressing the development of specific skills,
additionally allow students to socialise their research challenges with each other. The
Completion Study Day, which is programmed for those in the final stages of their studies,
typically addresses how to get the most from the Writing Up period, success in a viva
scenario and, as well as facilitating discussion going around career paths after the research
degree. Complementary sessions, addressing such topics as ‘social media and other digital
tools to promote research’, ‘winning funding for research endeavours’, or ‘balancing
inspiration and exhaustion’, unite students across stages.


In response to the Covid-19 pandemic, delivery of the programme moved online in March
2020, with additional resources including live sessions in the Core Research Concerns
series, which are video recorded for access on demand subsequently. The RNUAL
programme endorses the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
(2019). It draws on the toolkit provided by the Researcher Development Framework (Vitae,
2011) and the advice and guidance of the UK Quality Code for Higher Education (QAA
2018).


The RNUAL programme includes sessions to support good mental health and wellbeing in
students, including an introduction to mental health support at UAL in Block 1, drop-in
session during Confirmation Study Day and facilitated sessions in Block 3 on topics such as
‘Wellbeing through your research degree’. In 2018 University of the Arts London began a
project working with Positive Group to equip staff and students with evidenced tools and
techniques to optimise their psychological health and wellbeing.


NIDA


UAL is a member of the Nida Doctoral School (NDS) in Lithuania and through this
membership can provide the opportunity for three UAL PGR Students to attend the Doctoral
School annually. NDS comprises an intensive one-week programme for PhD candidates in
visual and performing arts, design, architecture and spatial practices, and media, as well as
the humanities and social sciences. NDS is structured to provide opportunities for doctoral
candidates to present, discuss, and share their individual research in a collegial setting with
formal and informal discussions, group and individual consultations, and tutoring.




                                                                                       Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




PGR Student support and wellbeing


Research degree students have access to the support provided by Student Services,
including the Student Advice Service, the Counselling, Health Advice and Chaplaincy service
and the Disability Service. Student advisers are money and immigration specialists. They
provide guidance on how to fund costs related to studying in the UK and can assist
international students with enquiries about visas and other immigration matters. Counsellors,
health advisers and chaplains support the health and wellbeing of students by listening to
them and helping them with issues and concerns such as depression, anxiety and illness,
and by providing pastoral and spiritual care. Disability advisers, dyslexia coordinators and
dyslexia support tutors support the University’s commitment to inclusion and equality.


Graduate Teaching Scheme


UAL’s Graduate Teaching Scheme (GTS) uses Graduate Teaching Assistant (GTA) hours,
and was developed by UAL in negotiation with the unions to enable PhD students to teach
from their research into courses. The contribution of research students to the curriculum
was demonstrated in 2016/17, when feedback from the GTS Scheme was used in the UAL
TEF provider submission that obtained a ‘silver’ rating. PhD students taking part in the
scheme have subsequently been appointed to teaching leadership roles within the University
including Kimathi Donkor (Course Leader, BA Painting) and Charlotte Webb (Course
Leader, MA Internet Equalities).


Student Support Fund


All MPhil/PhD students can apply for up to £500 per year to cover the cost of activities such
as attendance at a conference or symposium, taking part in an exhibition, fieldwork or
specialist training.


PGR Hub & Post Graduate Community


Developing community among PhD students is seen as a vital part of their overall
experience. The PGR Hub is an online community for our students and supervisors which
facilitates the sharing of information and resources with students as well as enabling student


                                                                                      Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


to share their thoughts and learning with each other. The PGR Hub is supplemented by the
broader Post-Grad Community, an inclusive platform for all UAL postgraduate enabling
students to share work, find opportunities and connect with other creatives within UAL and
beyond. In 2019 the Post Graduate Community team appointed a PhD student liaison from
within UAL’s PhD student community. A salaried position with a sole focus on PhD student
participation and communication, this has increased the team’s capacity to build further
engagement with the PGR community.


Equality and Diversity


UAL is committed to creating a supportive, inclusive environment where students and staff
can bring their ‘whole selves’ to their work, learning and creative practice, and reach their full
potential. Our UAL Strategy, Dignity at Work, Bullying and Harassment Policy (Students),
Equal Opportunities Policy 2016, EDI Strategy and our Anti-Racism Action Plan set out how
we ensure equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) are embedded into the culture of our
university and that it covers all the protected characteristics named under the Equality Act
2010 (age, disability and neurodiversity, sex and gender identity, pregnancy and maternity,
race, religious belief (or no belief), and sexual orientation as well as caring responsibilities).
We are committed to fostering a stimulating, supportive and inclusive learning, teaching and
working environment that is free from discrimination, bullying and harassment. The
University is committed to creating and maintaining a positive work and study environment
for all members of its community.


All staff including part-time and fixed term staff are supported via the University’s
Employment Policy. This policy is underpinned by the Equality Act 2010 in all aspects of
employment. Fixed-term Employees (Prevention of Less Favourable Treatment)
Regulations 2002 and the Part-time Workers (Prevention of Less Favourable Treatment)
Regulations 2000 are also explicit in key employment policies such as recruitment and
selection. UAL has an EDI strategy and operational plan that demonstrates its work towards
achieving objectives set under the Public Sector Equality Duty. On the census date 26
people (16 FTE) were directly employed on fixed-term contracts to undertake research on
funded projects. Recruitment and employment of fixed-term staff is managed through RMA
to ensure compliance with all regulations as they apply to fixed-term staff, and to ensure
access to redeployment opportunities and access to support to develop fellowship
proposals.




                                                                                          Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Black Lives Matter and the murder of George Floyd took place towards the end of the 2020
academic year. A university-wide ten-point Anti-Racism action plan was published and the
Director of Human Resources (UAL’s Race Champion) led the consultation and engagement
with the Action Plan. This led to a 10-point action plan with detailed SMART operational
objectives.


UAL is fully committed to working towards the Race Equality Charter and the necessary
infrastructure to deliver this has been put in place, aiming to achieve a University-wide
Bronze award in 2023. Shades of Noir was created in 2009 and has long been related to
UAL, establishing a sector-leading approach to addressing issues of race and inequality
within the creative arts. In 2020 Shades of Noir became the UAL Centre for Race and
Practice Based Social Justice. The first phase of embedding Shades of Noir's work across
the University will see its acclaimed anti-racism training programme becoming compulsory
for all UAL staff. Approximately 5,000 staff in all roles and departments, including the Court
of Governors, will receive a full day of training across a two-year period.


UAL has a range of policies in place to support all staff with caring responsibilities including
flexible working, maternity, paternity and adoption leave, and bringing children onto
university sites, each site also has facilities for breastfeeding or expressing milk. Justification
is required for recruitment to all new appointments if they are not to be offered as role share.
Events and training sessions for research including RNUAL are recorded for those unable to
attend the events. The move to online delivery has been received positively in terms of
flexibility and access, and we will continue to incorporate online delivery of our programme,
including our PGR open evening for potential students.


Over 60% of our academic staff are female and this is reflected in our submission both for
people returned and outputs submitted. An analysis of the gender pay gap between
academic staff has demonstrated a 0.3% gap between male and female staff, although
statistical significance has not been demonstrated. For professorial appointments the gap is
positive towards female staff, 54% of our Professors being female. Of the four Director
appointments to lead our new Institutes, three are female; the Directors of seven of our nine
Research Centres are female.

The University has LGBTQ+, BAME and Disability and Neurodiversity Staff Networks. These
networks provide help and support for members, empower staff to improve university
policies and practices and help implement change. All staff networks are involved in decision
making and policy reviews. Staff Networks are chaired or co-chaired by members of staff




                                                                                          Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


and operate as societies of support and community. They provide an opportunity to connect,
campaign, and support colleagues that share similar social identities. All networks receive
UAL funds to co-ordinate their activities. Release time incorporated into workload supports a
meaningful consultation and engagement mechanism by recognising the important role of
chairs and co-chairs of Diversity Networks.


Diversity Champions Forums were also established to facilitate institution-wide discussion on
LGBTQ+, Race, Disability, and Religion and Belief matters within the University. Champion
Forums are chaired by a member of the Executive Board and made up of staff and student
representatives. These forums are designed to initiate conversations around the
different diversity strands and actively implement interventions across the University. The
forums act as communities of good practice to ensure the embedding of EDI across the
institution.


As part of the University’s commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion, in 2018 it joined
the Stonewall Global Diversity Champions Programme, which will enable us to take a
strategic and structured approach to LGBTQ+ initiatives as a global institution. A substantial
achievement this year saw UAL climb 230 places in Stonewall’s Workplace Equality Index.
UAL now ranks 72nd overall, and amongst just a handful of education employers, in the UK
top 100 LGBT-inclusive employers. In 2019 UAL developed and implemented Trans Equality
and Sexual Orientation policies and guidance, in line with sector best practice. This forms
part of our major culture shift towards a more inclusive working environment. UAL introduced
the ‘Mx’ title category to its HR Management Information Systems in October 2016.


Work on the disability confident accreditation has been ongoing with many of the policies
and processes already embedded into the culture of UAL. Through this work, UAL has
updated and refreshed the workplace adjustments procedure, and delivered specialist
disability equality training for line managers. The University achieved Level 2, Disability
Confident Employer, status in 2019. The University has also joined the Business Disability
Forum, a leading disability advocacy and support organisation for employers. Through the
partnership, UAL has access to best practice advice and guidance in advancing disability
equality in the workplace.


To tackle unconscious and implicit bias, the University launched an online training module
on breaking bias in 2017, which is now mandatory for all staff. In 2019, the University
introduced a new Equality and Privacy Impact Assessment toolkit to ensure that all university




                                                                                        Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


policies are inclusive. The toolkit is being applied to the policies and processes governing
UAL’s submission to REF2021.



3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income


Research income for the assessment period was £8.9m, an increase of 39% on research
income for REF2014. While maintaining a consistent level of income from Research
Councils, income has been diversified with a three-fold increase in EU funding sources
accounting for 19% of total research income for the period, compared with 9% for REF 2014.


Consolidating our position as leader in Art and Design research UAL continued to develop
the quality and depth of its research activities, with a high proportion of our income from high
quality sources including UAL-led AHRC awards over £200k:
BAM - Blacks Arts and Modernism (Boyce, Dibosa, lok) £722,682;
Public Collaboration Lab (Thorpe, Prendiville) £384,508;
Archaeology Fashion Film (Evans) £299,280;
Rethinking Fashion Design Entrepreneurship: Fostering Sustainable Practices (Black,
Rocamora, Williams) £451,686;
Listening Across Disciplines II (Voegelin) £386,247;
Modest Fashion in UK Women's Working Life (Lewis) £241,407;
Materializing Data, Embodying Climate Change (Corby) £705,588.


The collaborative nature of our work means our research also attracts income from other
Research Councils, through our partnerships including Worlding Public Cultures: The Arts
and Social Innovation (Goodwin) £161,733 ESRC-AHRC T-AP Social Innovation Call;
Innovating Next Generation Services through Collaborative Design (Kimbell) ESRC led by
University of Sheffield £743,996 (UAL £157,492). Other awards include major charities such
as: The Wellcome Trust - The Hug: People with and without Learning Disabilities and Autism
looking at what it means to live well (Grierson) £211,247.


As set out in our objectives in 2014, we have built on proven areas of research excellence
supporting the growth of new ways of thinking about the core subject areas through cross-
disciplinary collaboration, as demonstrated by funding awards including: Materializing Data,
Embodying Climate Change (Corby) AHRC £705,588; MIMIC: Musically Intelligent Machines



                                                                                       Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Interacting Creatively (Grierson) as collaborative partner with Goldsmiths AHRC; Re-
envisaging Infection Practice Ecologies in Nursing (RIPEN) through Arts and Humanities
Approaches led by (Prendiville) 2-year AHRC Development Grant £197,399 (UAL £60k).


We have also greatly increased our non-UK funding. Since 2014 the UAL Research and
Innovation project portfolio includes more than 35 EU projects funded by ERDF, Erasmus+,
H2020, COST, COSME, Transatlantic Platform and Creative Europe programmes. Also,
several UKRI funded projects include international collaborations and partnerships.


Key EU funded projects during the period include:
Pharma Factory (Prendiville) a four-year £9.2m (UAL £500k) Horizon 2020 project to explore
how Plant Molecular Farming (PMF) can manufacture products for medical and veterinary
use using plant biotechnology;
Trash-2-Cash (Earley) a three-and-a half-year £7.9m (UAL £800k) Horizon 2020 project
which aims to create high-value products from zero-value waste textiles and fibres via
design driven technologies;
Mistra Future Fashion (Goldsworthy). SEK110m (UAL £318,744) focusing on circular
economy aiming at a future positive fashion industry;
Herewear (Earley) a four-year £6.2m (UAL £598k) Horizon 2020 project which aims to the
create an EU market for locally-produced circular textiles and clothing made from bio-based
waste;
T-Factor - Unleashing future-facing urban hubs through culture and creativity-led strategies
of transformative time (Thorpe) is a four-year £8m (UAL £900k) Horizon 2020 project
targeting early stage regenerations in a diversity of historic urban areas in London, Bilbao,
Amsterdam, Kaunas, Milan and Lisbon.


UAL’s research income to the University is £8.9m for the assessment period, with a two-fold
increase in income per year at the end of the assessment period compared to the beginning.
This demonstrates the success of the University’s strategy and the prioritisation and
investment in key areas at the beginning of the period. The size and complexity of funded
projects has increased during the assessment period demonstrating UAL’s position as a
leading university in our fields through our ability to compete for large-scale funding.


The UAL-led Business of Fashion, Textiles and Technology (BFTT) project is one of nine
Creative Research & Development Clusters funded under the Creative Industries Cluster
programme. Awarded in 2018, BFTT is a £5m, five-year industry driven project, which




                                                                                           Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


focusses on delivering sustainable innovation within the entire fashion and textile supply
chain.


The UKRI Strength in Places Fund (SIPF) invests in research and innovation projects that
aim to drive economic growth in specific areas of the UK. UAL led one of the 23 Wave 1
consortia and were awarded seedcorn funding of £50k for the proposal Performing
Productivity: screen, stage and the performing arts for economic growth in the Thames
Estuary Production Corridor, which led to subsequent full stage proposal of £29 million to
Wave 1.


UAL’s engagement with developing countries under its strategic themes leverages its
position as a leader in art and design research and practice, and its location in the global
heart of the creative industries. It nurtures long-term and complementary relationships with
partners who can gain most from UAL’s engagement.


UAL is a co-investigator on three projects funded under the UK-India Antimicrobial
Resistance Initiative: ‘Addressing the challenge of Antimicrobial Resistance in India’: The
Diagnostics for One Health and User Driven Solutions for AMR (DOSA) led by the University
of Edinburgh and the IIT Delhi (Prendiville), £2m (UAL £336k); Chicken or Egg: Drivers for
Antimicrobial Resistance in Poultry in India (DARPI) led by the University of Liverpool
(Prendiville) £1.8m (UAL 243k); and Smart Regulation of Antibiotic use in India:
Understanding, innovating and improving compliance, led by the University of Edinburgh
(Kimbell) £644k (UAL 89k).


In addition to major funding and awards, support is also provided to develop networks and
seed fund projects as well as career development. Awards for fellowships and other career
development opportunities during the period have included Kapsali (AHRC Leadership
Fellow), Davidmann (Phillip Leverhulme Prize), Goldsworthy (EPSRC Early Career Forum
for Manufacturing Research ), Kikuchi (BA Visiting Fellowship), Malpass and Salinas (AHRC
Design Fellowship), and Palomino- Perez (Daiwa Foundation and JSPS small grant).


UAL has been involved in eight network awards over the period, including acting as lead on
the following AHRC Research Networking Grants: Performing Romani Identities: Strategy
and Critique (Collins); A Vision for Europe: Academic Responsibility and Action in Times of
Crises (Finch); Picturing the Invisible (Coldwell); Linked Conservation Data (Velios), which
led to the successful AHRC development grant award Linked Conservation Data - phase 2
(£80,576); Listening Across Disciplines (Voegelin) which led to a successful AHRC standard


                                                                                       Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


grant award Listening Across Disciplines II (£386,247); and Cultural Heritage and
Representation: (Mis)readings between India and the Indian Diaspora (Collins).


In addition to research income awarded to the University through research grants and
awards many of our projects, particularly those with practice-based outputs, are funded
through sources awarded to the researcher or non-HEI organization, including work funded
through Arts Council England, which includes:


   •   Afterall: A UAL Research Centre and an Arts Council Portfolio Organisation (ongoing,
       £197k for the period 2015-2018)
   •   Seaside: Photographed (Williams) £220,000 ACE Strategic Touring and £10,000
       Turner Contemporary funding.
   •   El Treno/The Train (Brooks) Arts Council England £67,000, 2015/16
   •   A Farewell to Arms (Brooks), Arts Council England project grant £98,000, 2014
   •   Minima Maxima (Corby) Arts Council England, Grants for the Arts Award (Lead
       Artist): £10,162 (2015).
   •   The Overcoat, Hidden in Plain Sight and The Copyists (Dobai) £5000, Arts Council
       England, 2015.
   •   Quasi-Monte Carlo (Richards), Grant for the Arts, Arts Council England, £15,000
       2017.
   •   Dressed in Pattern (Hodes) Grants for the Arts, Arts Council England £14,850, 2014.




Infrastructure


Research Management and Administration (RMA) is the central UAL department supporting
all aspects of research activity across the University, from funding and dissemination to PGR
students. The team has extensive expertise across UAL’s subject fields and beyond.
Appointments during the period have included senior roles with expertise in STEM to support
our interdisciplinary work.


RMA provides a comprehensive and integrated service to support researchers and research
students in all aspects of their research activities, including pre-award and post-award
support for research funding, advising and providing training on good practice for
researchers. It oversees formal governance and monitoring of externally funded research
projects through ethics review, risk management, financial management and all aspects of



                                                                                      Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


project reporting. A designated coordinator from the UK funding team is assigned to each
College, providing administrative support for College Research Committees, working with
the College ADRs, college-based support of between 1 and 2 FTE, and Institute managers,
to create a hub and spoke support model.


Support for external research funding is provided by specialist teams for UK and
international research funding, and EU funding opportunities, who work collaboratively to
ensure academics receive a high standard and consistent approach to support for bidding
and project management. To support the enabling of impact from research activity a central
KE (UK) support team was established in 2019 and is co-located with RMA. The teams
share resources and in 2020 work was undertaken to create closer integration across the
teams, aligning processes and sharing expertise to create a single funding support service.
The teams also work alongside other UAL central departments, including the Development
office, who lead support for activities funded by Foundations and Trusts and philanthropic
donations.


The University’s’ approach to increase external funding has included increased pre-
application support and targeted deployment of research management expertise. A new
branch of its central research support team focusses solely on supporting European and
international funding bids, and helping to develop strategically important bids. For example,
the EU funding team organised a proposal writing sprint to support the PI and the
partnership in the project design of the proposal to be submitted to the Creative Europe call
for Large Cooperation Projects Creative Lenses: business model innovation in the arts
(Kimbell) £222,476 (project total £1.9m). RMA organised an information day for promotion of
the 2017 call for proposal of the Horizon 2020 Marie Skłodowska Curie Research and
Innovation Staff Exchange programme (RISE). This led to the development of an idea by
ECR Palomino Perez and the subsequent project Developing Fish Skin as a sustainable raw
material for the fashion industry proposal, submitted under the 2018 H2020 RISE call, £62k
(project total £552,000).


Research Outputs and Data Management


In 2018 UAL implemented a Current Research Information System (CRIS), Symplectic
Elements, linked to its existing ePrints outputs depository UALRO, as a means to manage
and disseminate research activities via dynamic online Research Profiles, as well as creating
a system for managing research activity across the University. A full-time Research Data
and CRIS Manager has been employed within RMA to manage the system and provide


                                                                                      Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


training to academic and research support staff. Alongside this UAL has also implemented
Symplectic Figshare as its new data repository. This allows our research data to be
accessed and re-used by researchers worldwide in a clear, free system that is easily
discoverable both via UAL itself and also the main Symplectic Figshare hub, independent of
user device. Future plans include the use of this system for the greater dissemination of
data, via our own Open Access data files and monographs, especially in the area of
practice-led research.


UAL Research Online (UALRO), the University’s repository of research outputs managed
within its Scholarly Communications section, based in Library Services and with close links
to RMA. The Scholarly Communications team support research staff and students to
disseminate their outputs via the repository and support the University’s compliance with
open access requirements. Support for Scholarly Communications has increased with the
addition of a Scholarly Communications assistant to the team during the period, reflecting
the increase in outputs generated. The Scholarly Communications and Research Data
Management Group (SCRDMG) oversees the ongoing management of the University’s
research data and the research outputs that are held digitally in the Institutional Repository
(UAL Research Online). Membership includes representation from Library Service, RMA, IT
and Legal Services.


The Research Events and Communications Team within RMA work with College-based
teams and the University External Communications and Marketing Team to support
disseminations and public engagement activities for research, including conferences and
events from funded research such as the Archaeology of Fashion Film Conference (2018),
Circular Transitions: A Mistra Future Fashion Conference on Textile Design and the Circular
Economy (2016), and BAM: Now & Then… Here & There…(2016), as well as UAL’s Annual
Research Season. The implementation of a new CRM system in 2020 to support the
management and evaluation of events will further support public engagement as a route to
impact.


Facilities, Archives and Special Collections
Archives, Museums and Special Collections at UAL are now home to over 200 Collections,
used in research by both UAL and external staff. UAL’s archives and collections notably
include:


The Stanley Kubrick Archive: The archive spans Kubrick's entire career from his time as a
photographer for Look Magazine to his final film Eyes Wide Shut. There is material about his


                                                                                       Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


unfinished projects, especially AI: Artificial Intelligence and Aryan Papers. There are also
records created posthumously including DVD and video re-releases, documentaries and
books about Kubrick and his work.


British Artists' Film and Video Study Collection: A unique research collection dedicated to the
work of UK and international moving image artists. Founded in 2000 it comprises of copies
of film and video works, publications, paper documents, posters as well as other material
relating to artists’ moving image such as exhibitions, events, and institutions.


Research England’s Collections, Galleries and Museum funding, awarded to the University
Archives and Special Collections Centre in 2017, funded the Researcher in Residence
Scheme that was launched in 2018/19. This supported two post-doctoral researchers to
work with our comics collections. The Decolonising the Archives Research Residency
Programme was launched in October 2019. This programme is led by DeAI and represents
a collaboration between this Institute and the archives, museum and special collections
community. Four researchers were appointed to develop outputs using collections held by
the University Archives and Special Collections Centre, LCC Library, Chelsea Library, CSM
Museum & Study Collection and the British Artists’ Film and Video Study Collection at CSM.


In 2019 Iniva and the Stuart Hall Library relocated from Shoreditch, to be based at Chelsea
College of Arts. The move reflects a long history of collaboration with UAL, highlighting
connections to recent research projects such as Black Artists and Modernism. The move has
established further space for Stuart Hall Library’s collection of over 10,000 books, journals,
periodicals and publications, and the refurbishment has created a new architect-designed
centre for research into contemporary art and culture. The co-location of Iniva and the Stuart
Hall Library, TrAIN research centre and the DeAI on one site, provides a critical mass of
researchers and scholarly resources focused on transnational arts, social justice and current
debates on decolonisation, creating an ideal environment for the support and development
of researchers working in this area.


Strengthening both physical and digital resources to support new research initiatives and
expand audiences and impact for its research outputs and activities is one of the strategic
priorities of the UAL Research Strategy. The aim of the Digital Archives & Collections project
is to preserve our growing digital collections and create a portal to make these unique
resources available to our students, staff and the public. The initial focus has been on the
University’s archives and special collections, and an increasing number of digitised
collections have been uploaded to the system to support their ongoing preservation.


                                                                                       Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



Galleries, Specialist Workshops and Labs


UAL has 16 gallery spaces spread across six sites supporting research activity and
developing practice. UAL has a large technical infrastructure with over 350 technicians
across the workshops and specialist facilities which includes film and production facilities, 3D
workshops, sound and digital, print studios and textiles workshops, available for both
teaching and research. These facilities have enabled the expansion of our practice-based
research.


Updates to facilities used for research during the period include Grow Lab, opened in 2019,
a Containment Level 1 biology laboratory focused on sterile work, microbiology and
microscopy relating to art and design. Based at CSM, it is equipped for data acquisition and
analysis and has full technical support. Based at LCC and supporting the extension of the
Archives and Collection’s centre into outward facing exhibitions, the PARC spaces were
refurbished to a project/exhibition space upgrading its gallery space and it was relaunched
with two exhibitions in 2019.


In 2019 the University launched CCI to champion interdisciplinary teaching, research and
knowledge exchange at the intersection of creativity and computational technologies. To
support the CCI, UAL has invested circa £1.2m in state-of-the-art research and teaching
space to support the application of cutting-edge computer science in the creative industries
and the arts. This includes significant investment in high performance computing for machine
learning applications, electronics prototyping equipment to support speculative HCI work and
VR and XR investments that build upon UAL significant investments in these areas across
its colleges engaged in performance, film and television. Developing a material
understanding of computational technology in a rigorous creative research context will be
key to success in the new digital economy.




4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society



The University has developed, or is in the process of finalising, a series of transformations of
its campuses, which has helped underpin many of its collaborative research and knowledge
exchange networks across London. This is particularly visible in the new London College of


                                                                                       Page 35
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Fashion at Stratford East, which has led to formal partnerships led by Professor Jane
Harris with UCL, Loughborough, Sadler’s Wells and the V&A, equally important for its
involvement in the South London Creative and Digital Cluster and the Kings Cross
Knowledge Quarter.

Through the experience of urban regeneration partnerships such as these, UAL brings
experience and new thinking to international research partnerships, for example the T-Factor
platform, a collaboration with European cities led by Professor Adam Thorpe. In 2019, UAL
and Bilbao Town Hall signed an MOU committing to deepening our collaborative
partnerships in the region, with a particular focus on the role of UAL and other HEIs in
supporting creative economy-led regeneration.

UAL has been a pioneer in the development of practice-based and practice-led research in
art and design fields and has strong links with industry and design practices. The University
is an active member of international networks and associations such as ELIA, Cumulus,
ENCACT and ECBN, as well as a founding member of the UK Creative Industries
Federation and PRAG-UK, a member of the International Association of Film and Television
Schools (CILECT) and the National Association for Higher Education in the Moving Image
(NAHEMI).



Research Centre Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships


UAL has led thematic research strands in the trans-cultural and cross-disciplinary Shared
Campus project, building partnerships with: City University of Hong Kong (School of Creative
Media), Hong Kong Baptist University, Kyoto Seika University, LASALLE College of the Arts
(Singapore), Teipei National University of the Arts, and Zurich University of the Arts. Via
major UKRI-funded research projects and curatorial collaborations, we have partnered with
national and local government agencies, NGOs and scientific organizations, including the
British Antarctic Survey, the Wellcome Trust, Camden Council and HM Prison Service, to
innovate solutions to emerging social issues. UKRI-funded projects include international
collaborations and partnerships.


Researchers on the BAM project, led by Professor Sonia Boyce (with Professor susan
pui san lok, Professor Paul Goodwin, Dr David Dibosa, Dr Dalal-Clayton and Hammad
Nasar), worked collaboratively with partners including: Middlesex University, Manchester Art
Gallery, University of Manchester, Middlesbrough Institute of Modern Art, Paul Mellon
Centre, Government Art Collection, Tate Britain, Van Abbemuseum -Eindhoven, Diaspora
Pavilion-Venice Biennale 2017 and Iniva, surveying over 30 UK museums and collections


                                                                                       Page 36
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


(including the Government Art Collection, Pallant House Gallery, and the Royal Academy of
Arts). The resulting audit element of the research identified and catalogued a total of 2,085
works by more than 300 Black-British artists and led to a collaboration with the BBC to
produce the documentary Whoever Heard of a Black Artist: Britain’s Hidden Art History (BBC
Four, 2018).


The recent establishment of DeAI under the leadership of BAM co-investigator lok further
testifies the University’s commitment to innovative approaches and methods in decolonising
heritage collections and valorising neglected cultural assets. DeAI projects have seen the
Institute lead on a British Art Network Seminar Series (funded by Tate and the Paul Mellon
Centre) and a curatorial network development programme, Decolonising Collections (with
support from Art Fund). These projects are based on collaborative partnerships with
nationally and regionally significant collections and organisations, including the Arts Council
Collection, British Council Collection, Government Art Collection, Manchester Art Gallery
Collections, Birmingham Museums Trust, MIMA (Middlesbrough Institute of Modern Art) and
Iniva (Institute of International Visual Arts).


DeAI Institute Fellows (Dr Mark Sealy, Erica Tan, Dalal-Clayton and Nasar) contribute to
the UAL research culture and enrich the environment locally through an internal and public-
facing programme of conversations, roundtables and participation in cross-Institute events.
lok and Tan have exhibited widely, including as part of Diaspora Pavilion at the 2017 Venice
Biennale. Dalal-Clayton is a co-Investigator on Tate’s Provisional Semantics: Towards a
National Collection (TANC) project. Nasar curated the UAE Pavilion at Venice in 2017 and is
co-curator of the British Art Show 9, 2021, and Sealy is Founding Director of Autograph, the
Association of Black Photographers (ABP) and curator of African Cosmologies, Fotofest
Biennial 2020 in Houston.




                                                                                       Page 37
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


In collaboration with Nesta, CCI led on a policy initiative to highlight the role of AI and
Machine Learning in the Creative Industries. CCI leadership consulted heavily on the
academic rationale and economic plan for a proposed £10m Centre for Artificial Intelligence
in the Creative Industries. Chancellor of the Exchequer Rishi Sunak responded personally to
the proposals, originally published in June 2020, which were substantially based on CCI’s
lead researcher Professor Mick Grierson’s research. CCI's work is cited in the UKRI AI
Opportunities Review and CCI researchers were contracted to consult on Google's
Differential Digital Signal Processing (DDSP) model under NDA, prior to its publication and
release. Further collaboration with Google has come through the National Investment
Productivity Fund, where a PhD student continues to work in Google AI as part of their
research project. Grierson led a team including the Made Smarter commission, Nesta,
Lancaster University and FutureLearn, that together launched a series of creative industries-
focussed on-line courses. These courses were launched in 2020 and attracted
approximately 60,000 learners, featuring as part of the UK Government's National Skills
toolkit. CCI's recognition in areas of Human Computer Interaction was evidenced when Dr
Rebecca Fiebrink was chosen to chair the new ACM SIGCHI panel on Computational
Interaction.


The SDI led by Professor Lucy Kimbell has organised public events and symposia at the
Design Museum (June 2019), and London Design Festival (September 2019). Alongside
cross-disciplinary research into design and policy, Kimbell built on her AHRC research
fellowship in Policy Lab (2014-15) and delivered consultancy for the EU Policy Lab, a team
in the EU Joint Research Centre (2018-19). This resulted in an EU report co-authored by
Professor Kimbell and an event at the European Parliament and EC in Brussels. A series
of four PhD studentships based in the SDI, jointly funded by UAL and King’s College
London, have internships in Policy Lab, based in the Cabinet Office (2019).


IFTT, led by Harris and deputy director Dr Kate Goldsworthy, has initiated a first-of-its-kind
UK-wide survey of the fashion, textiles and technology industry ecosystem engaged with
2,500 businesses, with 800+ SMEs surveyed and 65 interviews; it has awarded £1.8m to
date to SMEs and built a network of c. 65 PhD students across the partnership. In addition,
2,000 people and 600 companies engaged in 28 events, including four workshops held for
SMEs on Brexit, technology trends and the future of retail, with a total communications
outreach of 150,000 to date. IFTT developed a research-informed KE collaboration across
international SME networks, which is consequently in development with the British Council.




                                                                                          Page 38
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


UAL has developed collaboration activities with other higher education institutions and arts
bodies around the globe including: Tokyo Institute of Technology; Tokyo University of the
Arts; Asia Art Archive, Hong Kong; Center for Curatorial Studies, Bard College, Annandale-
On-Hudson; the John H. Daniels Faculty of Architecture, Landscape and Design, University
of Toronto; M HKA, Antwerp; Museu de Arte de São Paulo; NTU Centre for Contemporary
Art Singapore; Victoria & Albert Museum; British Film Institute ; and the Warburg Institute.
We have hosted Visiting Research Fellows from institutions internationally, including: China
Academy of Art, University of Bergen, Jingdezhen Ceramic Institute, University of Jyväskylä,
University of Montreal, University of Columbia, Arizona State University, Universidad de La
Laguna, Ryerson University, and Museu de Arte de São Paulo.


Examples of UAL’s extensive networks and partnerships include:
   •   Rocomora, established the Critical Fashion Studies Network with colleagues in UAL,
       King’s College, Goldsmiths, University of London, and across UK universities to
       debate about the future of fashion studies.
   •   UAL has led the development of a Performance Dress Lab, a specialist doctoral
       training initiative, in collaboration with UAL Colleges, Aalto University and RMIT as
       strategic partners (UAL staff involved include: Bugg, Barberie, Danjoux. Harris,
       Collins and Kapsali).
   •   Kapsali, 2018, founded and leads the Active Materials Systems Group, a recipient of
       Innovate UK funding for project titled Fashioning an Ageing population.
   •   Sabin and Comics Research Hub members (Horton, Hague, Mickwitz) have
       collaborated with the British Library on a project and CDA on “Collecting UK Digital
       Comics: social, cultural and technological factors for cultural institutions”, and with
       the British Museum on their record-breaking exhibition Manga (2019).
   •   M.Lewis and André Mesquita of the Museu de Arte de São Paulo successfully
       developed a two-year collaboration through a British Academy Newton Advanced
       Fellowships grant (2018–20), focused on Art and Decolonization.
   •   Esche, Steeds and Morris developed a research partnership between Afterall and
       the Asia Art Archive, Hong Kong (2018–21), resulting in the appointment of John
       Tain to the Exhibition Histories editorial board, which will support the development of
       three new publications, including exhibitions and arts festivals taking place in Chiang
       Mai and Shanghai.


Wider activities and contributions to the research base, economy and society




                                                                                        Page 39
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


The large number of staff researchers within UAL means that accounting for the depth and
breadth of their activities and achievements across the sector is by necessity abbreviated;
the examples that follow give a sample of the contribution UAL staff make to their fields and
across the sector. The Colleges, Research Centres and Institutes play a key role supporting
staff in developing sustained partnerships and collaborations, highlights of which are outlined
under the headings below:


   •   Research Councils and Organisations
UAL staff work across research councils and funding bodies in the UK and Europe. Four
members of staff are on panels of the current Research Excellence Framework exercise (SP
32 Baddeley, Black and Nazar; SP 34 Rughani). Current membership of the AHRC Peer
Review College is 12 (Colman, Collins, Corby, Harris, Lewis, Morra, Rughani, Albano,
Kapsali, Sheperdson, Voegelin, Velios). Colman is a peer reviewer for The Swiss
National Science Foundation and an Expert Evaluator for European Commission Research
and Innovation. Corby is a grant reviewer for the Swiss National Science Foundation, the
UK-India Education and Research Initiative (UKIERI), and a member of NERC peer review
panels for special calls involving the arts and humanities. Till is on the ERC Peer Review
Panel. Baddeley is chair of PRAG-UK and reviews for the European Science Foundation
(ESF). Harris is an advisor and peer reviewer to the European Commission for ICT (FP7 &
Horizon 2020).


   •   Juries and Selection Panels
   Rickett was appointed as judge for the Grierson Documentary Awards, The Grierson
   Trust (June 2018) and jury member to the Royal Photographic Society’s project Hundred
   Heroines: Celebrating Women in Photography Today (2017); Rughani jury member
   judge for Best Documentary, Fastnet Film Festival, Feb 2020).


   •   Journal and Publisher / Editorial & Advisory Boards positions and
       contributions
   Barbieri is a founding editor of Studies in Costume and Performance; Black is co-editor
   of the journal Fashion Practice: Design, Creative Process and the Fashion Industry; de
   la Haye and Clark started the Exhibiting Fashion online journal 2020; Colman is a
   founding and section editor of Matter: Journal of New Materialist Research and is on the
   editorial board of MediaMatters. Amsterdam University Press. Journal of Body Space &
   Society; Journal FibreCulture: internet: theory + criticism + research; Media Philosophy
   book series, Rowman International; Transformations: Journal of Media, Culture,




                                                                                      Page 40
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


   technology; Rocamora is co-editor of the International Journal of Fashion Studies and is
   on the editorial board of Cultural Sociology, dObras, and Fashion Studies; Zeilig is on
   the editorial board of Arts & Health, An International Journal for Research, Policy and
   Practice; Sujon, was guest editor of special issue of New Media & Society (Jan 2019) &
   Editorial board member, Digital Culture and Education (Aug 2019). Rughani chairs
   editorial board of the Journal of Media Practice & Education; Bramall appointed to
   editorial board, New Formations journal; Collins, Co-Editor of Theatre and Performance
   Design; Coldwell, Editorial Board of Print Quarterly and Advisory Board of Art in Print.
   Melvin and Quinn, Editorial Board of Journal of Visual Arts Practice; Melvin, advisory
   editorial panel for the OUP Dictionary of National Biography for visual arts. Sturgis is
   Associate Editor of Journal of Contemporary Painting, Holme is Associate Editor of the
   Journal of Illustration, Dave Beech is Co-Editor of Art and the Public Sphere, Simonson
   is on the Advisory Board, Textile Cloth and Culture and Earley is on the editorial board
   of The Design Journal.


   •   Advisory and Trustee roles
   Colman is an advisory board member, StoryLab Institute, Anglia Ruskin University,
   Cambridge; Prendiville worked with Lancaster University on the AHRC-funded DeSID
   (Design for Service Innovation and Development) with the UK’s Design Council and
   was commissioned by the KTN (Knowledge Transfer Network) to assess the role of
   design in two of the Government’s Catapults – The Transport Systems and the Satellite
   Applications; Bramall gave consultancy and advice to Tax Directorate, Scottish
   Government; Institute for Public Policy Research; Common Vision policy institute; Office
   of Tax Simplification, HM Treasury and appointed ‘Technical Advisor’ to Tax Justice
   UK; Baines was appointed to the Royal Mint Advisory Committee, taking up the
   position of Lettering Expert. Tulloch is a Trustee of Autograph ABP and an advisor on:
   Paris-London: Two Global Cities led by Sussex University; Fashion Cities Africa project
   at Brighton Museum and Art Gallery and is a member of the V&A’s Africa Curator’s
   Group; Hogan is a trustee of the Royal Drawing School; Baddeley is a trustee of the
   Ashley Family Foundation, Saint Catherine Foundation New York and London and on
   the advisory panel of the Hyundai Tate Research Centre: Transnational; Dibosa is on
   the Tate Britain Advisory Council; Harris is an advisory board member of the V&A
   Research Institute (VARI). D. Williams and CSF has acted as secretariat to All Party
   Political Group on Ethics and Sustainability in Fashion (APPG), with Baroness Lola
   Young. Gamman and the DACRC team’s Makeright won the British Council INDIA-UK
   Excellence Award for Collaborations in Higher Education under the Innovative
   Partnerships™ category – 2016, the Sublime magazine™ Best Design Initiative – 2016,


                                                                                     Page 41
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


   and won second prize in the NICE (Network for Innovations in Culture and Creativity in
   Europe) Award 2017 by the European Centre for Creative Economy (ECCE); Making It
   Right™ film was shortlisted for the AHRC Research in Films Award 2017.


   •   Fellowships, Residencies and Visiting Professorships
   Leister, DAAD Visiting Professorship, via German Academic Exchange Service; Bush
   awarded a six-month Archisle Residency; E. Clark was Ikon’s artist-in-residence at
   Britain’s only therapeutic prison, HMP Grendon in Buckinghamshire ; Rughani, senior
   visiting scholar to Columbia University, New York; Orta, established an Art for the
   Environment Residency Program, with placements for researchers in Murano Venice,
   Italy, and the Yorkshire Sculpture Park, Wakefield, United Kingdom; Tamburic, Visiting
   Professor, Higher School of Applied Sciences, Ljubljana, Slovenia; Teunissen, Visiting
   Professor at POLIMI Milan and at both ArtEZ University of the Arts and De Profielprijs;
   Rocamora, Visiting Professorship as Sapienza University, Rome; Kapsali, Visiting
   Professor at University of Art and Design Linz, Austria and Visiting Professor in
   Biomimetic Design: International Hellenic University, Greece; Fletcher, Visiting
   Professor at Sapienza University of Rome, Adjunct Professor at Royal Danish Institute,
   Denmark, and Visiting Professor at Design School Kolding, Denmark (2020 - 2021);
   Colman, Honorary Professor, School of Art, College of Design and Social Context,
   RMIT, Australia and Visiting Research Fellow, Global Centre for Humanities in
   Technology [GCTH], Kyung Hee University, South Korea; Storey, Artist in Residence for
   UNHCR, Za’atari refugee camp in Jordan; Hamman artist’s residency at Oxford
   University/Ashmolean; Coldwell was a Visiting Fellow at STAMPS University of
   Michigan and at Edith Cowen University, Perth and a visiting guest artist at University of
   Indiana, invited to deliver McKinney Endowed Lecture; Quinn, Honorary Senior
   Research Associate in UCL Faculty of Laws, Bentham Project; D. Smith, three-year
   research residency at the Horniman Museum.




   •   Awards, Prizes and Nominations
   Boyce has been announced by the British Council to represent Great Britain at the 59th
   International Art Exhibition – La Biennale di Venezia in 2022; Zimmerman was awarded
   Film London Jarman Award 2020 and a nominee for the Grierson Award; Esche won
   the CCS Bard College Prize for Curatorial Excellence (2014); Barbieri won the Prague
   Quadrennial 2019 Best Publication Scenography Award; Fletcher was awarded an
   Honorary Doctorate from Emily Carr University of Art & Design in Canada and a Green
   Carpet Fashion Award for her work in co-founding the Union of Concerned Researchers


                                                                                       Page 42
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


   in Fashion; Wilcox won a Thea Award for outstanding achievement, Museum Exhibit, for
   Alexander McQueen: Savage Beauty, Victoria & Albert Museum, London UK. V&A;
   Mijovic, nominee for the Golden Zenith Award in the First Fiction Films Competition at
   the Montréal World Film Festival; Orta, Winner of the National Trust 2018 commission
   Folly! for the World Heritage Fountains Abbey and Studley Royal Water Garden, North
   Yorkshire; Lewis, Enhancing Understanding Award, from Council on American-Islamic
   Relations and winner of Richard Martin Award, from the Costume Society of America;
   Rickards was awarded the Philip Leverhulme Prize; Kapsali, Winner ITMA Future
   Materials INNOVATOR of the Year. Hart was awarded the Max Mara Art Prize for
   Women; Zimmerman awarded 2020 Film London Jarman Award for film Here For Life;
   M. Lewis won the Governor General’s Visual Arts Award (Canada) and in 2019 was
   awarded a Rauschenberg Fellowship, Rauschenberg Foundation; Broadhead received
   a Lifetime Achievement award from The Goldsmiths Craft & Design Council; Rughani,
   Research in practice award from the British Association of Film, Television and Screen
   Studies (BAFTSS); Thompson, award for 'Outstanding Contribution to Researching PR
   history', awarded by PR History Conference.
   Selected Keynotes, Conferences and Events
   o   Teunissen appointed Curator by the Sonsbeek & State of Fashion Foundation for
       its quadrennial international State of Fashion event in Arnhem, Netherlands; she
       staged State of Fashion: Searching for the new Luxury (Arnhem June 1 –July 26,
       2018).
   o   Potter, 2018. Curator of symposium KpaKpaKpa: Design Concepts from the African
       Continent: Celebrating the 3-year AfridesignX research project, Victoria & Albert
       Museum, London; considering future-oriented design concepts and digital making
       practices.
   o   Tamburic curated the SKINs symposia series; 2016; 2018; 2020: The future of
       cosmetics - symposia on skin hosted by LCF, bringing together industry, scientists,
       and fashion experts.
   o   Lewis, 2018. Modest Fashion Media and Markets: Perceptions and Realities,
       location Zorlu Exhibitions Centre, Istanbul, in collaboration with Modanisa Istanbul
       Modest Fashion Week.
   o   Rocomora, 2017. Co-convenor of symposium: Cultural Mediators in the Digital Age
       Symposium at King’s College, University of London.
   o   Rughani keynote at the first meeting of the research conference (GEECT) at
       Stockholm, Jan 2020 and contributed to CILECT’s “ethics lab” pedagogic resource
       promoting best practice in education, research and training for film, television and
       related media.


                                                                                      Page 43
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


   o   Sujon co-organised Understanding the Social in a Digital Age conference at
       University of East Anglia, (Jan 2019).
   o   Collins November 2018 'Staging the Real' a one-day symposium of talks and
       workshops considering the construction and representation of the real in theatre
       and performance, National Theatre.
   o   Quinn organised, hosted and presented at the conference ‘Victorian Futures’ in
       collaboration with V&A and Middlesex University.


   •   Selected Public engagement activities
   o   Orta Antarctica World Passport - Participation in Basque Coast biennial of
       contemporary art in France (Aug - Nov 2016), the Centro Cultural Kirchner, Buenos
       Aires, Argentina (Apr - Nov 2017), Antarctica World Passport Delivery Bureau, at
       Frieze Projects London (Oct 2017), UN convening for Migration Week Marrakesh
       (Dec 2018).
   o   Storey’s Dress For Our Time, exhibited at St Pancras International Station (Nov
       2015), Science Museum London (Aug - Sept 2016) as well as participating in
       London Peace Talks hosted by London's City Hall, UN Geneva as part of
       TEDxPlaceDesNations Transforming Lives (Feb 2016). Storey named first Artist in
       Residence by UNHCR at Za'atari Refugee Camp.
   o   Wilcox, 2015. Curated the exhibition Alexander McQueen: Savage Beauty (over
       480,000 visitors).
   o   Earley, Goldsworthy Politowicz. Textile Toolbox Exhibition (2014). Exhibition
       toured to Whitworth Art Gallery, Manchester; RSA and The Great Recovery,
       Resource Event, Excel; London Innovation Forum; Milan Furniture Fair; Danish
       Association for the Fashion Industry (DAFI) and KEA Copenhagen; SP symposium,
       Boras, Sweden; Falmouth University; Fashion Institute of Technology (FIT), NY;
       Almedalsveckan, Visby, Sweden.
   o   J. Clark conceived and curated The Vulgar: Fashion Redefined: Barbican Art
       Gallery (Oct 2016 – Feb 2017; 44,024 visitors); Winterpalais, Vienna (March – June
       2017); MODEmuseum, Hasselt, Belgium (Sept 2017-Jan 2018).
   o   Putnam, 2016. Co-curator of the exhibition: Daydreaming with Stanley Kubrick.
       Somerset House, London.
   o   Wilcox, 2018. Co-curator (with UAL PhD student Henestrosa) of Frida Kahlo:
       Making Her Self Up (exhibition, V&A); accompanying conference The Many Faces
       of Frida (Baddeley, convenor and keynote speaker) – Frida Inside Outside, 2-3
       2018 November, Victoria and Albert Museum.




                                                                                    Page 44
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


   o   Shepherdson and V. Williams exhibition: Seaside Photographed, Turner
       Contemporary, Margate.
   o   Steeds convenes the Exhibition Histories talks series. Co-organised in partnership
       with Whitechapel Gallery, engaging the public in the Afterall Exhibition Histories
       research project. Speakers have included Lucy Lippard, Hou Hanru and Lubaina
       Himid.
   o   Goodwin, Co-curator with Hannah Collins of We Will Walk – Art and Resistance in
       the American South, Turner Contemporary, Margate.
   o   UAL has supported the Stanley Kubrick Travelling exhibition (ongoing), curated in
       collaboration with Deutsches Filmmuseum, Christiane Kubrick, Jan Harlan, with the
       support of Warner Bros Entertainment Inc, Sony-Columbia Pictures Industries Inc,
       Metro Goldwyn Mayer Studios Inc, Universal Studios Inc and SK Film Archives
       UAL. The exhibition is accompanied by a travelling academic conference (convened
       by Baddeley with contributions from Collins, Coldwell, Putnam, Rughani) at
       global museums including: Cineteca, Mexico City, MoMA, Seoul. At London’s
       Design Museum a two-day symposium, speakers included Alan Yentob, Deyan
       Sudjic, Katharina Kubrick, Milena Canonero.
   o   Professor Mark Fairnington, solo exhibition Collected and Possessed, drawing on
       the Horniman Collection, Natural History Museum and the Wellcome Collection was
       held at the Horniman Museum and Gardens, 28 November 2015 - 24 January 2016;
       this has led to an ongoing research residency at the Museum.
   o   Hogan: Personal Geographies, solo exhibition and talks program, Yale Centre for
       British Art, 2019.
   o   D.Williams, Fashioned from Nature exhibition (V&A, Apr 2018 - Jan 2019) was
       exhibition special advisor and conceived, developed and delivered the installation
       'Fashion Now, Fashion Futures' (co-curated with Salazar), published chapter in
       exhibition publication and delivered keynote at V&A conference and Friday Late
       event; exhibition is now touring. Fashion Now, Fashion Futures was installed at
       Walthamstow studios, as part of Making for Change. It has since been exhibited in
       Copenhagen and is now planned to visit China and Korea. The V&A exhibition also
       included work by Earley, Goldsworthy and Politowicz.
   o   Hogan initiated and convened The Jocelyn Herbert Lectures: The National Theatre
       in collaboration with University of the Arts London, with a grant from the Rootstein
       Hopkins Foundation to provide funding for ten lectures. (Sir Richard Eyre, ULTZ,
       Dame Harriet Walter, Walter Asmus, Sian Thomas, Rae Smith, Phyllida Lloyd,
       Michael Billington, Roy Williams).




                                                                                      Page 45
