Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Nottingham (UoN)

 Unit of Assessment: UOA 28 History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Overview

UOA28 comprises 42 (40.8 FTE) academic staff (compared with 29 in REF2014) based in the
Department of History. The latter is part of the School of Humanities, one of three Schools in the
Faculty of Arts. Our research ranges from the fall of Rome to the late-twentieth century and
from the very local to global research themes; with strengths in a range of methodological
approaches including cultural, social, gender, international, colonial and post-colonial
history. To support collaborative research and individual researcher development, our research
community is organised into four research clusters, defined chronologically (Medieval, Early
Modern, Modern, Contemporary). This structure also supports the recruitment of PGR and PDFs
and their integration into our research culture. The Unit has a strong tradition of
interdisciplinary research and History staff have provided leadership in UoN’s drive to support
interdisciplinarity through its Beacons of Excellence and Global Research Themes (GRT)
programmes (see REF5a 2.1). For example, Umbach as APVC Research and KE for the Faculty of
Arts (2015-19) influenced the development of UoN’s Research Strategy and formation of Beacons
and GRTs, going on to co-lead the Culture Matters Interdisciplinary Research Cluster (IRC: 2019-).
Greenwood co-led the Health Humanities Research Priority Area (RPA: 2016-19) and is on the
leadership board of its successor, the Improving Health and Wellbeing IRC (2019-). In the
assessment period, the Unit has built a strong culture of KE and public engagement, building
on its long-standing commitment to enabling community participation in research (e.g. the Victoria
County History project [Beckett] and AHRC Connected Communities project [Harvey] reported in
REF2014) and its enduring collaborations with museums, archives and local Government (see 1.2,
4.2.i).

The UOA’s research, impact and PGR strategies and delivery mechanisms are overseen by the
Head of Department (HoD), who works with the Director of Research (DoR), Impact Officer and
Director of PGR, and chairs the Department’s Research and KE Committee. An annual Research
Away Day enables collective discussion on individual and group research and KE plans across the
UOA. The DoR sits on the School of Humanities Research and KE Committee, which reports to the
Faculty Research and KE Board, chaired by the APVC for Research and KE, thus aligning
Department, School, Faculty and institutional strategies.

1.2 Achievement of Strategic Objectives in assessment period

Research

The Department’s overarching strategic objective is to sustain an ambitious, vibrant research ethos
that promotes an equitable, inclusive and supportive research culture where every staff member
can excel in research and impact. In 2013-20 we have achieved our four main goals, and laid
important foundations for sustained success. The Department has: effected a step change in its
research income: up from £755k in REF2014, to income of £3.4m (from awards of £3.9m); and
produced 21 monographs, 11 edited essay collections and 2 major scholarly editions.
Collectively, staff have published over 200 journal articles and essay chapters.

Our specific REF2014 aims have been achieved as follows:
i) To enable every researcher to produce the highest quality research outputs and impact
with comprehensive support for academic development. Strategic leadership (HoD and DoR)

                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
has supported staff to engage fully with training, development and investment opportunities.
Examples include the UoN’s Research Leaders Programme (Umbach and Gaunt: REF5a 3.1),
the Faculty’s Arts Research Leadership Programme (12 members of staff, 2.1) and mentoring
of all Early Career Researchers (ECRs). Each member of staff benefits from one semester of
research leave in every seventh semester and focused coaching for researcher development
through annual Appraisal and Development Conversations (ADCs, REF5a 3.1) with an academic
reviewer. Staff research is further enhanced by research and KE development support from the
Centre for Advanced Studies for the Arts and Social Sciences (CAS, see 3.3) and through
engagement with a cross-Faculty internal peer-review college.
ii) To develop new generations of scholars by the training and supervision of postgraduate
and postdoctoral researchers, and mentoring ECRs and junior colleagues. Achieved by
continuing to increase our PGR numbers with 81 recruited (up from 57 in REF2014). This has in
part been facilitated by the Unit’s success in securing studentships from the AHRC (33) and
ESRC (9), described in 2.2. The Department benefitted from institutional strategic investment in
Nottingham Research Fellowships (NRFs) (REF5a 3.2) to secure two 3-year research
fellowships that lead to a permanent post on successful conclusion of the awards (Thum, Law).
Our support and development of the next generation of researchers in history was further
enhanced by 3 externally-funded postdoctoral fellows supported by British Academy (Ward) and
Leverhulme (Trombley, Cimino) funding. External grant capture also supported postdoctoral
research positions that benefitted 11 other PDRs (see 2.1).
iii) To enable interdisciplinary and collaborative research. The Unit has both furthered existing
collaborations and initiated significant new collaborations across disciplines and with academic
organisations nationally and internationally (4.1). This success was in part facilitated by UoN’s
investment in interdisciplinary research networks (RPAs and IRCs; REF5a 2.1a), which pump-
primed interdisciplinary activities by researchers across the Unit (£57,206 awarded). Examples of
major interdisciplinary projects in which staff have played a leading role include: Greenwood’s
collaboration on the AHRC-supported ‘Nightingale Comes Home for 2020', (PI Crawford, Health
Sciences) and on the AHRC/GCRF project ‘Towards Transdisciplinary Understandings of Inherited
Soil Surveys’ (PI Lark, Biosciences); and Umbach’s work as PI on the AHRC-supported
‘Photography as Political Practice in National Socialism’ (Co-Is in Computer Science and
Education). Inter-institutional collaboration is exemplified by Beckett’s leadership of the AHRC
Centre for Hidden Histories (CHH) WW1 Engagement Hub (working with a team from the
Universities of Derby, Manchester Metropolitan, Nottingham Trent, Oxford Brookes) and
collaboration with the AHRC-funded WW1 Engagement Centre consortia (led by Birmingham,
Belfast, Hertfordshire and Kent). We actively recruit PDRs who work between disciplines (Law and
Toropova, Health Humanities; Thum, Digital Humanities).

iv) To enable KE and impact through collaborations beyond higher education institutions. In
2013-20 the Unit has both maintained a range of existing partnerships, including a multi-project
partnership with Nottingham Museums and Galleries Service (Gaunt), and established a broad
range of new collaborations with regional, national and international organisations. Key areas of
collaborative focus have been the museum and heritage sector, teaching and learning
professionals and continued engagement with community groups to encourage public
participation in research - see 4.2-4.3.
Impact
In 2013-20 we have significantly expanded our impact and KE activities, achieving our REF2014
aims by:
i) Making impact integral to our research effort. Since 2013, the Unit has embedded questions
about individual and team KE and impact plans in its appointment process, mentoring, annual
ADCs and Research Away Days, and factored Impact work into the calculation of individual
workloads. The appointment of a School of Humanities Impact Officer (Gaunt 2016-19) and (from
2019) Department Impact Leads has supported our ambitions. History’s Impact Lead (Holland)
meets regularly with all staff-members to ensure they maximise their research’s KE/impact

                                                                                          Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
potential. Further support, including brokering relationships with external impact/KE partners, is
provided by the Faculty’s Research Impact Officer and Research Development staff based in CAS
(see 3.3). Knowledge mobilisation and partner engagement is fostered by Faculty KE seed corn
funding and, from 2018, a new Arts Impact Accelerator, funded by UoN’s Higher Education
Innovation Fund (HEIF) allocation. For example, an Arts Impact Accelerator award (£7,016)
employed a postdoctoral fellow to extend Gaunt’s work supporting the redevelopment of
Nottingham Castle and enhancement of its interpretative scheme (leading to Impact Case Study
[ICS] ‘Rebellion’). Our KE/impact has also benefitted from funding from UoN’s RPAs: e.g. RPA
funding (£28k) supported Arnold’s development of a partnership between academics, the
National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) and Modern Records Centre, Warwick that secured a
plan for the long-term preservation and public access to NUM’s archives.
ii) Embedding pathways to impact into PGR and ECR training. We have supported and
enabled PGRs and ECRs to translate their research for non-academic audiences by embedding
KE and impact support into mentoring, Research Away Days and ADC review. Examples of
resultant PGR-led KE activities include: Roche, ‘Elizabethan Espionage’, St Albans School (2015);
Henry, Anderson and Griffiths ‘Posters for Victory’, UoN Family Discovery Day (2016); Dixon,
‘Excavating Empire: David Talbot Rice and the Rediscovery of Byzantium’, Barber Institute of Fine
Arts (2017). The AHRC Connected Communities award ‘Writing our History: Digging our Past II’
(PI Gaunt), discussed further under iii, supported 2 PDRs to deliver training (IT, accessing
archives, palaeography) and professional advice (historiography, bibliographic techniques,
interpretative approaches), working in partnership with community groups, local museums and
archives.

iii) Developing larger-scale impact projects with improved reach and significance. By
encouraging the incremental growth of collaborations and partnerships we have successfully
grown the reach and significance of our KE. For example, the Unit built on Harvey’s AHRC
Connected Communities grant ‘Writing our History: Digging our Past’ (2012: REF2014) to facilitate
further opportunities for collaborative KE awards. This resulted in two AHRC Community Heritage
Development Awards (2013-14): 1) Gaunt and Riden ‘Trade and Traffic on the River Trent and
Associated Waterways, 1850-1970’ with external partner Newark Heritage Barge; and 2) Beckett’s
‘The Social World of Nottingham’s Historic Green Spaces: A Community History Project’, and
subsequent AHRC Follow-on-Fund award with Beckett and team working with the ‘Friends of the
Arboretum’, ‘Friends of the Forest’ and ‘Nottingham’s Women’s History Group’ to investigate
changing use of public parkland in Nottingham (ICS ‘Green Spaces’). Gaunt secured a second
phase of the Connected Communities funding for ‘Writing our History: Digging our Past II’ (2014),
which enabled academic partnerships with another fifteen local history groups. Umbach’s work with
the National Holocaust Centre Museum (NHCM) provides a further example of incremental
development. Umbach’s initial partnership with the NHCM was supported by an AHRC Cultural
Engagement Fellowship (Stiles: 2016) and focused on re-developing the Centre’s education packs
for schools. This grew into a collaboration with NHCM, and academics from Education and
Computer Science, on Umbach’s ‘Photography as Political Practice’ (supported by an AHRC
standard grant). This project has enabled Umbach to develop a wide range of national and
international partnerships. By embedding practitioners from the Bonarates Photo Gallery (Vienna)
and Ethnographic Museum (Vienna) within the Department’s own research culture, it has provided
a model for colleagues to build on.

iv.) Enhanced public engagement and public access to research findings (see also
collaborations described in 1.2.iii). To enable greater public reach, staff have also engaged the
public via the media. Writing pieces for popular journals (e.g. Gaunt and Laven: BBC History
Magazine; Harvey: History Today; Hornsey: Source: Thinking Through Photography; Kumar: Aeon
Magazine; Law: Daily Maverick; Merton: Stylist Magazine); broadcasting and newspapers (e.g.
Adler, expert historian on Who Do You Think You Are? 2015; Auerbach, research consultant for
programmes on Yesterday Channel and History Channel). Staff have also delivered public
lectures (e.g. Gaunt, ‘Late Night at the Castle’, 2014, and Wilson, ‘Remembering Nottingham’s

                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
First World War’, 2018, both as part of the British Academy’s ‘Being Human’ national festival of the
Humanities).

1.3 Impact case studies: the approach to achieving impact

Our ICSs reflect the Department’s research specialisms, spanning social, cultural and political
history. They have fostered local and global collaboration, establishing sustainable partnerships
with organisations regionally in the Midlands, nationally in London and internationally in Austria.
Working closely with community partners and diverse communities, as well as establishing digital
platforms, the ICSs have achieved local and global impact. This includes a) providing specialist
research capacity for partner organisations (Rebellion, Holocaust ICSs), b) informing policy and
shaping practice in the heritage sector (Rebellion, Green Spaces, Holocaust ICSs), c) enhancing
understanding of hidden and diverse histories with contemporary relevance (all four ICS) and d)
fostering capacity for community research and active citizenship (Green Spaces, MOOC ICSs).
Each ICS incorporated research-based outreach and KE as a foundation for the focused activities
from which the impact arises, and included substantial PGR and/or postdoctoral involvement.

1.4 Interdisciplinary Research
The Unit has a strong tradition of interdisciplinary research and, as 1.1 describes, has provided
leadership for institutional-level strategies and initiatives to foster interdisciplinarity, including
Beacons of Excellence and GRTs (REF5a 2.1). In 2013-20, staff have played key roles in major
interdisciplinary projects, including: Greenwood’s collaboration with Crawford (Health Sciences)
on ‘Nightingale Comes Home for 2020' (AHRC-supported), and with Lark (Biosciences) on
‘Towards Transdisciplinary Understandings of Inherited Soil Surveys’ (AHRC/GCRF-supported).
Umbach has worked with Co-Is in Education and Computer Science on ‘Photography as Political
Practice’ (AHRC-supported). Whilst Beckett’s CHH’s WW1 engagement hub involved
collaborations with experts in area studies, geography, health sciences and languages.

1.5 Open research, ethics, and integrity
In line with UoN’s significant commitments to open research (REF5a 2.3) and the principles of the
Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (REF5a 2.4), the Department seeks
to enable research of the utmost quality, integrity, and openness. Best practice is embedded via
UoN’s Publication Framework, which advises on open-access (OA) and open-data (OD) policies,
research conduct and ethics, and the responsible use of publication metrics. All projects whose
impact or research activities involve human subjects, or their data, are subject to rigorous ethical
review, with support from officers at School and Faculty level. Staff and PGRs are trained in the
safe handling and storage of data, including GDPR. PGRs additionally receive an Arts-specific
Research Integrity course, administered by the Researcher Academy. Academic misconduct is
dealt with in accordance with UoN policy.

UoN treats transparent dissemination of research results as integral to research integrity (REF5a
2.3). In 2019 the Department developed its own ‘Go Beyond’ policy on Open Access, with the
aim of having 75% of staff place items which fall beyond the scope of standard OA requirements
into UoN’s repository. This target has been exceeded (85%), with 104 items made open access.
The University has provided funds to support Gold OA publications deriving from UKRI-funded
projects, and the School of Humanities contributes to Gold OA for non-UK-based projects,
matching contributions from other funders. Wherever possible OD resources are planned into
research projects (e.g. Appleby on Civil War Petitions; Goddard on Nottingham Borough court rolls;
Harvey by making the working papers for the Reich Labour Ministry project accessible). All outputs
published through JTaylor’s ERC-funded project 'Cultures of Occupation in Twentieth Century Asia'
are Gold Route access, and shared via Twitter/Facebook. Likewise, History’s MOOCs have
significantly increased public use of OA publications (e.g. Badcock’s session on ‘Justice and
Violence in Late Imperial Russia’ resulted in 2,917 viewings of her ‘From Villains to Victims’ in



                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Europe-Asia Studies). Over 80 articles have been placed on History’s Blog, ‘History Past and
Present’, since 2013.

1.6) Research and Impact Objectives (2020-25)
We will build on the successes outlined above to continue fostering inclusive, interdisciplinary
research and impact excellence, with the following strategic aims:

1. Develop and sustain an ambitious, vibrant research ethos that promotes an equitable, inclusive
   and supportive research culture and environment.
2. Recruit, retain and develop excellent researchers using fair and inclusive selection and
   appointment practices, with clear and transparent merit-based recognition, reward and
   promotion pathways that recognise the full range of researcher contributions.
3. Enable every researcher to produce the highest quality research outputs and impact, with
   proper support for academic development, within an open and humane research environment.
4. Enable the effective mobilisation of our research, through a commitment to the open access
   agenda and by working with external partners regionally, nationally and internationally to
   achieve knowledge exchange and impact.
5. Increase and diversify external research grant income, with the fullest involvement of individual
   staff members, supported by an efficient system of encouragement and advice.
6. Recruit postgraduate students, developing their research skills in a challenging but nurturing
   environment, enabling them to write original and significant theses and providing them with the
   foundation for a career in academia or a related field.
7. Develop interdisciplinary and collaborative research by engaging with other Faculties, as well
   as other historians and institutions, nationally and internationally, and by participating in the
   University’s research structures, including its Interdisciplinary Research Clusters.
8. Enable effective knowledge mobilisation working with external partners regionally, nationally
   and internationally and equip every researcher with the skills to plan and evaluate their impact.

These objectives will be developed by setting strategic group and individual goals on outputs, grant
capture, impact and open access, overseen by the Department’s Research and KE Committee.
For example, our four research clusters already have in train the following research and impact
plans:

Modern and Contemporary: Major book-length publications by Badcock, Balzaretti (co-author),
Baron, Kumar, Laven, Law, Merton, Serem and JTaylor. Large-scale projects coming to fruition
include Harvey’s leadership of the English-language documents edition of ‘The Persecution and
Murder of European Jews by Nazi Germany 1933-1945’ (16 vols). Our planned major impact
projects/activities include Greenwood/Hornsey ‘Chemists to the Nation, Pharmacy to the World’:
Exploring the Global Dimensions of British Healthcare and Beauty with Boots the Chemists, 1919-
1980’ (AHRC Standard grant); Umbach’s leadership role within the National Holocaust Centre and
Museum, and new MOOC on Photography and National Socialism; and Arnold’s work on the
archives of the National Union of Mineworkers.

Medieval and Early Modern: Major publications will include Darby’s Letters in the Age of Bede,
Lutton’s The Cult of the Holy Name in Late Medieval England; Dodd’s, The Late Medieval English
Parliament; Gehring’s Robert Beale and Merritt’s Sacred and Profane in Early Modern London.
Major impact and KE-related projects include Appleby’s work on the AHRC-supported ‘Petitions of
the English Civil war’ project.


 2. People

2.1) Staffing Strategy and Development

Our Recruitment Strategy has three elements:

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

i)   To maintain diversity of research excellence following retirements and resignations.
     Expertise in pre-modern history has been consolidated with the appointments of Darby and
     Gehring; expertise in modern British and European history consolidated and substantially
     extended with the appointments of Arnold, Blackburn, Greenwood, Holland, Hornsey, Serem
     and Wilson. Expertise in Indian history was added by the appointments of Gust, Kumar and
     Sen, in modern Chinese history by JTaylor and in South African gender history by Law.
ii) To strengthen the areas prioritised for further consolidation and/or development (see
     1.6) by support for PGR recruitment (2.2) and PDR recruitment via grant capture.
iii) To recruit and support high-quality researchers regardless of personal circumstances in
     a fair and transparent process. Our commitment to EDI is shown in the improved gender
     balance, from 72.5% men/27.5% women in REF2014, to 64% men/36% women in REF2021.
     We have achieved 50% balance of men/women for our Professors. In line with UoN’s
     significant commitments to EDI (REF5a 3.5) and the principles of the Concordat to Support the
     Career Development of Researchers, the Department’s recruitment process encourages
     diversity within the applicant pool and ensures equal measurement of applicants against
     explicitly stated job requirements. All staff on appointment committees receive unconscious
     bias training; chairs of appointment committees attend specific training in best practice; every
     appointing committee for level 5 (Assistant Professor) or above includes a member of staff from
     outside the Department. Service on short-listing and interviewing panels is spread around the
     Department, all-men panels are avoided, and a range of career stages is represented in each
     panel. All staff/PGRs are invited to job presentations, and their feedback helps inform the
     panel’s decision. Each new appointee is given a mentor from the Faculty of Arts to provide
     support/advice, identify suitable training and develop their career potential.

Our Staff Development Strategy has two main ambitions:

i)    To encourage the career development of the next generation of academics to sustain
      the health of the discipline. We have a strong record of appointing and providing excellent
      support for ECRs (e.g. Gehring, Gust, Hucker, Merton, Law, Serem, Kumar), while adding
      research strength by appointing outstanding mid-career academics (e.g. JTaylor, Greenwood).
      Support for ECRs is governed by the University Concordat to Support the Career
      Development of Researchers. All ECRs benefit from a half-teaching load and freedom from
      administrative duties (other than those associated with their own teaching) in their first year.
      They are also allocated a mentor. In their second and third years, they continue to have
      reduced teaching loads and lighter administrative duties, building to a full teaching and
      administrative load only in their fourth year, when they are due a semester of leave. From the
      outset new ECR staff are fully integrated into our research culture, attend research seminars
      and are part of the ADC system. They also receive grant application development and other
      support from CAS, including two ECR-focussed events per year, and benefit from training
      offered by UoN’s Researcher Academy. Newly-appointed staff complete the PGCHE, with
      Researcher Academy oversight (REF5a 3.2).

ii)   To ensure that all staff are afforded maximum time to undertake research and are
      excellently mentored in shaping appropriate research priorities and accessing
      internal/external funding. Staff benefit from University and Faculty support mechanisms,
      including a one semester in seven study-leave schedule, which has supported 48 semesters
      of leave (2013-20). These are supplemented by rigorous peer-mentoring for grant applications,
      both at UOA and Faculty levels, the latter supported by CAS. This has helped 22 staff secure
      external grants and further enabled staff to attract investment funding to the Department from
      the University, Faculty and School (see 1.2, 3.3). ECRs and post-doctoral staff also benefit
      from a dedicated peer-mentoring scheme. Since 2013, successful applications for competitive
      internal funding (PVC’s leave) allowed 8 staff (6 men, 2 women) to extend their study leave
      semester to a full year. This enabled completion of major research and impact projects
      including monographs by Goddard, Auerbach, Gust and Gaunt, extended overseas visits to
      archives by Mawby and Merton and Hornsey’s KE collaboration with Boots Commercial

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Archives on a public exhibition on their No.7 brand: Inspiring Beauty (2018).

University structures to ensure staff develop their potential include training and skills
development in Career Management, Research Methods, and Research Leadership and
Management. In 2016, led by Umbach, the Faculty launched an Arts Research Leadership
Programme, to support academics 8 -18 years post-PhD transition from excellent researchers to
research leaders. The programme supports career planning, navigating changes to the research
environment, and mentoring skills and has been completed by 12 colleagues (5 women/7 men).
Our staff development policy, accessible to all staff via the School workspace, supports all staff
throughout their research careers, from recruitment to retirement, through the use of mentoring,
probation, appraisal and training. As much importance is given to staff retention and
incentivisation as recruitment: staff are offered a range of leadership programmes, and their
personal development can be advanced via a suite of online courses offered as part of Continuing
Professional Development. Our Annual reviews (ADCs) provide a supportive environment to
discuss career trajectory and to reflect on professional development. Regular School research
events, departmental staff research seminars and our research clusters provide additional
community synergies.

Evidence for the success of these structures can be seen in staff promotions (2013-20): 1
Teaching Associate has been promoted to Assistant Professor (Merton, M); 2 Assistant Professors
to Associate Professors (Cobbing, Greenwood, 1F/1M); and 2 Associate Professors to Professors
(Badcock, Balzaretti, 1F/1M). The Department also supports the research activities of staff whose
formal employment has ended, including 9 Emeritus Professors and Associate Professors, and 18
Honorary Research Fellows.

Post-Doctoral Researchers. Since 2013, the UOA has successfully grown its PDR community,
with Postdoctoral Research Assistants (11) and Postdoctoral Fellows (5; one British Academy PDF
(Ward), two Leverhulme Early Career Fellows (Trombley, Cimino) and two NRFs (Thum, Law:
REF5a 3.2). They are fully integrated into the Department’s research culture, and developed by
mentoring and appraisal, inclusion in departmental meetings and research seminars, and access
to institutional support, including training and career development. Our PDRs are further supported
by a 5-day programme for Early Career Researchers, covering issues such as time management,
team working and future career planning, and participation in sandpits and writing retreats. Their
progress is regularly reviewed and career development needs identified by a team including the
relevant project supervisor/mentor, DoR and HoD.

2.2) Support for, training and supervision of PGRs

PGR recruitment more than doubled in 2007-13 (from 23 to 57), and has continued to expand.
Between 2013-20 we recruited 81 students (48% women). Selection decisions for the offer of
PGR places are made by panel of three, led by the Director of PGR (Recruitment and Funding),
based on a combination of applicant merit and fit with a suitable supervisory team. Our PGR
completions have increased significantly from 24.5FTE (2007-13), to 68.55FTE (74 students) in
the 2013-20.

A significant factor in increasing our PhD studentships is the success of the AHRC-funded
Midlands3Cities Doctoral Training Partnership (M3C), launched in September 2014 with 1-to-1
match funding commitment from each consortium partner. Since 2014, our Unit has recruited 33
PhDs supported by AHRC funding (54% women) – up from 10 AHRC awards reported in
REF2014. M3C’s successor, M4C (2019-25), was ranked first in the AHRC’s DTP2 competition
(REF5a 3.3) and awarded the largest allocation of studentships, again with commitment to 1-to-1
matching funding by the consortium members. PGRs with M4C funding benefit from the Midlands
Arts Programme, which draws on all eight Midlands-based universities within the partnership to
provide research and employability training, networking and cohort development opportunities that
reflect the changing status of arts researchers in the 21st Century. Five students are funded
through AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Awards (CDAs: IRO CDT studentship x3, M3C x1 and M4C

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
x1) (4.2.i). In 2013-20, 9 PGRs have been supported by the ESRC DTC and Midlands Graduate
School DTP (some with an MA/MRes element funded) – up from 2 awards in REF2014.
Interdisciplinary PGR recruitment has been facilitated by Baron’s role as Director of the Area
Studies and Economic and Social History pathways of the ESRC Midlands Graduate School. In
addition, 15 PGRs have benefitted from fee waivers (including 6 John Robinson Fellowships,
funded by a History alumnus, and 2 international students supported by Vice-Chancellor’s
Research Excellence Awards).

All new PGR students are allocated a supervisory team containing a minimum of two supervisors
(REF5a 3.3). The primary supervisor provides subject-specific expertise and is the main point of
contact between the student and the Department. The secondary supervisor offers a combination
of complementary subject specialisms and general guidance on academic and procedural matters.
To ensure the best possible support for each PGR student, the Department has developed a
strong tradition of collaborative and interdisciplinary supervision: of the 47 students currently
registered, 8 supervisions are shared with other Departments and 13 with external partners (e.g.
the Universities of Birmingham, Leicester, and Nottingham Trent). Staff also participate in a further
14 PGR supervisory teams involving students registered in other Departments (5) or institutions
(9). PGRs benefit from a minimum of 10 supervisory meetings per year for full-time students, 6 for
part-timers. Records are kept of all supervision sessions (monitored by the School’s Research
Office) and the entire supervision process is overseen by the Director of Postgraduate Research
(Progression and Training). A key part of progress monitoring is provided by the confirmation
review during the first year of study, followed by annual reviews in subsequent years. PGRs have
their own workspace within the School, with PCs and facilities for scanning, free printing and
photocopying. The School and Researcher Academy provide PGRs with financial support for
research visits (£3k awarded 2013-20). The Faculty’s ‘Digital Transformations Hub’ provides
technological support and equipment to enable new digital approaches to research. The Social
Sciences and Arts Graduate Centre provides additional 24-hour postgraduate social/learning
space, and opportunities for cross-disciplinary collaboration.

PGRs are fully integrated into the Department’s research culture via participation in the
Department’s fortnightly research seminars and ‘Work in Progress’ workshops. PGRs are
encouraged to organise their own conferences (e.g. Hearne, ‘Science, Society and the State,
1870-1935’ (2015); Rowson, ‘The Future Direction of Russian and East European Studies’ (2018);
Rose, 'Sociability in Early Modern Britain' (2019)). Our Medieval PGRs organised three
conferences under the auspices of the ‘Medieval Midlands’ M3C/M4C framework: ‘Power and
Society, c. 500-1500’ (2015); ‘Identity in the Middle Ages’ (2017); and ‘Medieval Boundaries and
Frontiers’ (2018). Their research is further disseminated via the Medieval Midlands WordPress site,
founded 2016 by PGR students as an online hub for M4C medievalists across the Midlands; and in
Midlands Historical Review, an online, OA, interdisciplinary publication, founded 2017 and part-
funded by the Department. History PGRs take the leading role in this journal’s management.

PGR career development is nurtured through the Researcher Academy, which ensures policy
and training are mapped to the Researcher Development Framework, Research Council’s
Statement of Expectations for Postgraduate Training, and QAA Quality Code (see REF5a 3.3). The
Arts training offer conforms to the AHRC’s ‘Research Training Framework’. The PGR offer includes
research methods training, research integrity and ethics training, sessions on CVs, preparing for
the viva and writing skills. Language courses are also available, with the Department providing
particular support for Latin. Each student’s training needs are evaluated at the outset of their study
through the Faculty’s ‘Training Programme Development Needs Analysis’. Training is recorded,
and each student’s evolving needs monitored as part of a Research Portfolio discussed at their
Annual Review. In line with principles 3 and 5 of the Concordat to Support the Career Development
of Researchers, our PGRs are supported by an extensive range of careers advice from both the
Researcher Academy and University Careers Service. Preparation for future careers also includes
a bi-annual ECR event led by CAS on postdoctoral fellowships and first grant capture. M4C
students have access to an external partners’ scheme that enhances their transferable and
employability skills; and other PGRs to the Researcher Academy’s award winning ‘Postgraduate
Placement Programme’ (see REF5a 3.3). PGR career development is enhanced by participation in

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the Department’s Associate Teachers’ Programme. More advanced students are supported in
presenting papers to our research seminar and in delivering papers at conferences.

This training has enabled our PGRs to take on editorial positions and to publish their research.
As a result 7 PGR students have taken on assistant editorial positions with academic journals,
including JBS, Nottingham Medieval Studies and Peripheral Histories, and most of our PGR
students publish on aspects of their research during their PhD enrolment, often with direct support
from the department. 8 PGRs have published their theses as monographs (e.g. Phipps, Medieval
Women and Urban Justice (MUP)).

The success of these support structures is evidenced by the further careers of our students.
Examples of recent PGRs who secured full-time posts or postdoctoral fellowships include:
Nicholson, Associate Lecturer, Derby; Hearne, Leverhulme ECF, Durham; Hefferan, Teaching
Associate in Medieval and Early Modern History, UoN; Marsh, Roy Foster Scholarship in History
and Culture of Ireland, Hertford College, Oxford; Parfitt, Teaching Fellow, Loughborough; Piana,
research fellow, Genoa; Ramsay, Assistant Professor, Bournemouth; Mallart, postdoctoral fellow,
Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona. Other careers building on PGR experience include: Henry,
Research and Knowledge Exchange Fellow, UoN; Rogers, Visitor Assistant, McManus Museum,
Dundee; and Rowson, Sputnik News Agency, Moscow.


2.3) Promotion of equality and diversity

i. Staff
At the REF census date, the Department had 42 research staff: 64% men, 36% women and non-
binary; also comprising 7% BAME; 21% international; and 7% with a declared disability. 37 were
full-time permanent, 3 were 0.2-0.8 permanent, and 2 fixed-term, leading to permanent posts.
There were 6 Professors (3 men: 3 women), 15 Associate Professors (10 men: 5 women) and 18
Assistant Professors (13 men: 5 women). 2 were ECRs (one man: one woman). 3 of the last 5
heads of department were women. A body of emeriti enriches our research culture: e.g. Heywood,
McHardy, Jones, Meller, Wrigley.

The UOA follows the University’s Equal Opportunities policy, which addresses all protected
characteristics in contexts like staff recruitment, promotions and workplace behaviour, and the
more wide-ranging EDI Strategic Delivery Plan, which embraces caring responsibilities, socio-
economic background, temporary disability and intersectionality. Staff accrue the right to enhanced
maternity pay after the first year of employment. Mechanisms are in place to support staff with
health problems, and to assist in returning from a period of ill-health, including occupational health
meetings, flexible timing of return to work, short- and long-term reductions to workload, and other
reasonable adjustments. Well-being has become a central aspect of the ADC process, supported
by the University’s Wellbeing Programme. This REF period has seen EDI embedded in Faculty
and School governance. The School of Humanities submitted an Athena Swan Bronze application
(awarded October 2020), under the leadership of Badcock, and established a School Equality,
Diversity and Inclusion Committee in 2019, co-chaired by Badcock, and including Gust. The UOA’s
EDI awareness has benefitted by Gust’s membership of the Royal Historical Society’s LGBT+
working party from 2019 (leading to the publication of an Equality Report, September 2020). As co-
Director (2017-20) of UoN’s Centre for Research in Race and Rights, Gust organised Black,
Disability and LGBT+ History Months and other events promoting awareness of diversity, some in
conjunction with the UOA’s Institute for the Study of Slavery (ISOS).

ii. PGRs
The Department’s diversity stems from recruitment, funding and support procedures in accordance
with the University’s Equality and Diversity Code. Where PGR students disclose disabilities, we
liaise with the University’s Academic Support unit to ensure that appropriate adjustments and
support are provided. Student wellbeing is promoted locally via pastoral support from supervisors

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(who act as Personal Tutors), our Director of Graduate Studies, a School Student Support and
Wellbeing Officer, the Faculty’s trained Mental Health First Aiders, and the University’s policies on
PGR adoption, maternity, paternity and sick leave. Our commitment to inclusivity is shown by the
diversity of our PGR community. Of our 68.55 (FTE) completed PhDs, 54% were women, 12%
international, 6% non-white, 4% gay or bisexual, 14% with a declared disability. In 2019-20 our
PGR community comprised 47 students: 24 (51%) women.

Our commitment to EDI is shown by our collective (staff and PGR) research contribution to global
issues of equality, diversity and inclusion (e.g. Law’s research on fertility, race and Apartheid in
South Africa; Gust’s work on race and identity in the British Empire; Cocks’ work on homosexuality
in the 20th century; and Merton’s work on ethnicity in the USA).

iii. Construction of outputs portfolio
The selection of our outputs portfolio followed the University’s Code of Practice. Reviewers all
undertook Unconscious Bias training; outputs were read by two internal reviewers using a
proforma based on Guidance on Submissions; outputs authored by women had at least one
woman reviewer; calibration was achieved by the REF coordinator meeting with reviewers or
asking a third to adjudicate. The REF coordinator then compiled a list of the highest internally-
ranked outputs, and checked the proposed submission against all protected characteristics,
followed by appropriate re-reading. Allowing for double weighting, this process has resulted in a
selection of submitted outputs that represent all age ranges (26‒35 (12%); 36‒45 (29%); 46‒55
(40%); 56‒65+ (19%)) and job families (level 5: 45%; level 6: 36%; level 7: 19%), with women and
non-binary colleagues submitting 36% of outputs, in line with the Unit’s overall gender ratio.
Besides that which is required by the rubrics, the UOA’s only criterion for including research
outputs is their scholarly merit.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1) Income
In 2013-20 the Department has continued to substantially increase its research income figures.
This has been achieved by implementing a robust strategy that supports award holders by
providing additional research time in the workload planning of 50% above the time allocated on the
grant. We have supported colleagues during the application process by providing internal peer
review by experienced staff, and a dedicated School Research and Knowledge Exchange Fellow
who assists in the scoping of bids and identification of research partners.

The Department secured awards of £3,911,900 (income £3,490,100 in period) from a total award
value of £5.1M. This is a significant increase on REF08 with income at £686k, or £114k p.a.;
REF2014 with income at £755k, or £150k p.a. During the current census period, our income has
been on an upward trend: 2013-14: £159k, 2017-18: £805k, 2018-19: £998k and 2019-20: £724k
plus new awards confirmed but starting beyond assessment period (e.g. Greenwood and Hornsey
AHRC Standard -AH/T008741/1: £706k). We have achieved a high percentage of income earned
from the Research Councils and other government bodies, both within and outside the UK.

Since 2013, grant capture has enabled the Department to deliver on key strategic priorities and to:
embed impact into its research, extending both reach and significance; forge
transdisciplinary, collaborative research projects; and strengthen the department’s
reputation as a centre of collective and individual research excellence. External research
funding gained in this REF cycle has directly facilitated major published outputs, including:
Badcock, British Academy Small Grant - A Prison Without Walls (OUP); Baron, AHRC – Displaced
Children in Russia and Eastern Europe (Brill); and Greenwood et al AHRC Standard Research
Grant – Florence Nightingale at Home (Palgrave). Equally, significant KE and impact has been
enabled such as public participation in research (Beckett, Gaunt), museum and exhibition
development (Appleby, Beckett, Gaunt, Greenwood, Umbach), and engagement with teaching and


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
learning professionals in schools (Greenwood, JTaylor, Umbach). Indicative examples of
externally-funded research include:

   Appleby, ‘Petitions of Maimed Soldiers and War Widows of the Civil War (AHRC: income of
    £103,666 from £118,100 award)
   Beckett, ‘Centre for Hidden Histories of the First World War: Community and Commemoration
    (AHRC: income of £183,700, from £744,800 award)
   Greenwood, ‘Florence Nightingale Comes Home for 2020’ (AHRC: income £203,900, from
    £677,000 award)
   Harvey, ‘Making Women Work: Gender, Race and Labour’ (Leverhulme Major Research
    Fellowship: income £142,800, from £155,300 award)
   JTaylor, ‘Cultures of occupation in Twentieth-Century Asia’ (ERC: income £1,031,100, from
    £1,366,000 award)
   Umbach, ‘Photography as Political Practice in National Socialism’ (AHRC: income £204,700,
    from £578,700 award)
   Young, ‘Anglo-American Relations and the “Intermestic” 1977-81’ (Marie Curie: income
    £217,200, from £176,100 award)

In contrast to earlier periods, when income often depended on awards derived by a few senior
staff, we have successfully enabled grant capture across different career stages, with 22 staff in
the Unit securing external funding since 2014 (41% women). The strong departmental ethos of
research grant capture is also reflected in the fact that over 75% of staff (32) have applied for at
least one grant in this period (34% women).

3.2) Internal Research Investment

The Department’s research and impact has been supported by UoN’s investment infrastructure
including:

i) Institution-wide investments in interdisciplinary RPAs and IRCs (REF5a 2.1a). Greenwood’s
engagement with the Future Foods Beacon led to her interdisciplinary award with Biosciences
(1.2.iii); and her co-leadership of Health Humanities RPA led to the AHRC project, ‘Nightingale
Comes Home for 2020', (PI Crawford, Health Sciences). Greenwood is on the leadership board of
the Improving Health and Wellbeing IRC and Umbach co-leads the Culture Matters IRC. A total
of £57,206 was awarded to staff from the RPA and IRC research areas (Arnold, Auerbach,
Greenwood, Wilson). UoN support for the recruitment and development of excellent ECRs led to
the appointments of two NRFs (Law and Thum; REF5a 3.2).

ii) At Faculty level, the PVC’s Research and Impact fund supports additional research/impact
leave to enable projects to be progressed/completed (see 2.1), Research and Impact Excellence
awards support the completion of projects, and Arts Impact Accelerator awards (e.g. Gaunt’s
academic residency partnership support) support new collaborations with non-academic partners.

iii) The School’s Research and Impact Incentivisation fund (see 3.3) supports colleagues with
additional teaching relief to develop, deliver or finish projects.


3.3) Infrastructure and Facilities

The Department’s leadership of institutional improvements in scholarly infrastructure for
interdisciplinary, collaborative research and KE is described in 1.1 and 1.2.iii. Our staff have
actively engaged in research collaboration with UoN’s international campuses (e.g. Umbach’s visit
to UNMC in support of Ahmed’s project ‘Malaysia Imagined’ (2019); JTaylor’s work with the
Institute of Asia Pacific Studies at UNMC (2019); and Wilson’s collaboration on a publication with
with Ch’ng from UNNC). The Unit hosts three Research Centres: ISOS (director: Haggerty), the
Centre for the Study of Political Ideologies (CPI) (co-director: Umbach) and the CHH (director:

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Beckett). These centres, together with other research networks, including Medieval Heresy and
Dissent and the Institute for Medieval Research (see 4.1) promote research collaboration through
seminar series, workshops, panel discussions, lectures and conferences. They have provided the
intellectual framework for publications and major research and KE/impact projects (e.g. AHRC-
supported Photography as Political Practice; AHRC-supported Hidden Histories of the First World
War) resulting in, for example, the Holocaust and MOOC ICSs and wider partnership with British
Library (through CPI) and over a dozen KE projects with community and other organisational
partnerships led by Beckett (CHH - http://hiddenhistorieswwi.ac.uk/).

Our funding success is facilitated by the Centre for Advanced Studies in the Arts and Social
Sciences (CAS), which provides expertise in identifying funding opportunities, developing
applications and project planning. CAS has worked closely with History to develop our portfolio of
KE and Public Engagement (PE) activities. These include: partnership-building with the
Nottingham Museums and Galleries Service (PI Gaunt) and with the National Trust, resulting in
sponsorship of a research assistant and collaboration with Southwell Workhouse (PI Badcock);
and community engagement activities funded by the Connected Communities Programme (PIs
Beckett and Gaunt). Umbach received support from the Digital Research team to work with
Microsoft, drawing on AI to develop automated image reading for Holocaust photos. In 2020-21 the
CAS team will be expanded to establish a dedicated Faculty research support team. We are also
supported administratively by the School of Humanities Management and Research Office, whose
duties range from handling PGR admissions and monitoring PGR progress, to providing advice on
the costing and staffing of research projects.

The scholarly infrastructure supporting research and impact includes excellent access to
academic resources. In the REF cycle over 7,000 new printed History titles have been added to the
Hallward Library collection (the main library for Arts’ researchers). University research resources of
particular relevance to staff and PGRs are the Manuscripts and Special Collections holdings,
including the Portland (Welbeck) and Newcastle (Clumber) collections, and Nottingham
Archdeaconry Records. In partnership with the library, the Department has continued to grow its
collections of e-resources, acquisitions include: State Papers Online Parts 1 & 2; Migration to New
Worlds; Readex’s African American Newspapers series, Gale Cengage’s Archives of Sexuality and
Gender: LGBTQ History and Culture since 1940; and the digital Patrologia Latina of medieval
religious sources. State Papers has directly supported outputs by Appleby, Merritt and Gehring;
Patrologia Latina has underpinned Darby and Lutton’s research; and African American
Newspapers Merton’s.

The Department benefits from self-contained, well-equipped premises close to the Hallward. Staff
have individual offices, and PGRs shared offices, located within close proximity to their
supervisors. Staff and PGRs benefit from networked PCs, and access to printers. A computer
laboratory based in the Department has a further eighteen PCs. The Department has space for
small conferences and workshops. Staff are allocated up to £1,200 p.a. for conference
attendance, whether overseas or in the UK, and also have access to a Personal Research and
Scholarship Allowance (PRSA) of £600 p.a., which may be used for any sort of research
expenditure, including archival visits and publication costs. They can additionally bid for £1200 for
research funds that require funding over and beyond their PRSA. The School of Humanities
provides further facilities (e.g. additional PCs and meeting spaces) and funding opportunities: with
£59,888 of Research and Impact Incentivisation Funds going to Unit staff to provide teaching relief
in support of specific research activities including bid applications (Auerbach), project management
(Appleby, Umbach), completion of outputs (Dodd) and research travel expenses (Arnold).

The Faculty of Arts provides funding for additional research leave (2.1), and to support CAS and
the Digital Transformations Hub (DTH). The latter provides staff and PGRs with resources,
expertise and support in using digital methods for learning, teaching and research, including KE.
DTH-supported projects include Gaunt’s Connected Communities award and Beckett’s WW1
Engagement Centre.



                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Arrangements and Support for Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
The Department has successfully collaborated with HEIs from Europe as well as the USA, India,
China and South Africa, and with diverse academic and non-academic, national and international
partners, research users and communities. These collaborations, networks and partnerships are
underpinned by institutional investments in research Beacons, RPAs and IRCs (REF5a 2.1) and
mobility funds such as the International Collaboration Fund (REF5a 4.1); plus Faculty and School
pump priming mechanisms for research and KE (see, for example, 3.2). The International
Collaboration Fund was used by Arnold for a collaborative workshop ‘The end of coal – and
beyond: political, social and cultural perspectives on the history of the coal industry, 1970 to the
present’, with the fund enabling international researchers to attend the event (£3,635 ICF, matched
by CAS: £3,660). The outcome of the event fed into Arnold’s outputs (2016 and in press) and
started his partnership with the NUM and the development of a plan to preserve the NUM’s
archives for future researchers (ongoing, with Modern Records Centre, Warwick).

The Department’s leadership and involvement in long-standing, cross-School/Department research
centres also facilitates interdisciplinary collaboration (3.3). The Institute for Medieval Research
(IMR) brings together >60 staff, PGRs and PGTs from across the Faculty, with diverse interests in
medieval history, literature, theology, philosophy, art and archaeology. The IMR produces the
international journal Nottingham Medieval Studies, co-edited by Lutton since 2013. Umbach co-
directs the CPI (with the School of Politics) and Baron co-led the ‘Digital Humanities and Arts
Praxis – Interrogating Interdisciplinarity’ project (2016), with Carletti (Computer Science) which led
to an OA Good Practice Guide. Merritt established Early Modern at Nottingham, which connected
researcher in seven Departments. Wilson’s museums network (4.2.i) has run three workshops,
attracting 45 colleagues across UoN, and led to a collaboration with Nottingham Trent University.


4.2 Relationships with Key Research Users, Beneficiaries and Audiences to Develop Impact
Our long-standing and newly-forged relationships across the culture, heritage and education
sectors enable staff and PGRs to develop impact and enrich our research environment. Key users,
beneficiaries and audiences include:
i. museum and heritage services professionals. Gaunt's academic residency as 'Curator of
Rebellion' at Nottingham Castle underpinned his ICS and further collaborations with Nottingham
Museums and Galleries Service (including one post-doctoral residency and two M4C placements).
Other consultancies have included Baron for the British Library (BL) exhibition ‘Maps and the
Twentieth Century’ 2016-17; Baron and Badcock as Associate Curators of the BL exhibition
'Russian ‘Revolution: Hope, Tragedy and Myths’ (2017); Arnold taking a leading role in saving the
NUM’s archives, in collaboration with Modern Records Centre, Warwick; Umbach serving on the
Academic Advisory Board, National Holocaust Centre, acting as an advisor to the Imperial War
Museum London, and co-curating the ‘Eye as Witness’ touring exhibition (2020-); Kumar advising
on the permanent exhibition ‘Joseph Stevens in Colonial India’ (Sweden); Appleby’s collaboration
with National Civil War Centre, Newark Museum; Balzaretti co-curating an exhibition ‘Portofino
Landscape’, shown in Portofino, Genoa and Nottingham (2018); and 7 exhibitions at the Weston
Gallery, Nottingham, including 2 curated by Gaunt (‘Charging Against Napoleon: Wellington’s
Campaigns in the Peninsular wars’ 2015; ‘Georgian Delights: Life During the Reign of George IV’,
2019-20) and 1 by Gust (‘Threads of Empire: Rule and Resistance in Colonial India’ 2017). The
establishment by Wilson in 2019 of a University-wide hub ‘Mobilising Museums: Sharing Memories,
Curating Spaces and Enabling Engagement’, has further supported colleagues working with the
museum sector, and has been instrumental in forging links with Museum Development East
Midlands and the Museum Agency, as well as many individual museums, which provide solid
foundations for future collaboration and research grants. In this REF cycle 5 of our PGR students
have secured funding as part of the M4C CDA scheme which has resulted in collaborative

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
partnerships with Wollaton Hall, Boots PLC, the British Museum, the British Library and the
Imperial War Museum (Doole, Moss, Rogers, Tofts and Carey).

ii. teaching and learning professionals in schools, where our annual programme of research
engagement is coordinated by our Outreach Officer (Merton). The History Taster Day is our
flagship outreach event and has run every year since 2013 using a specific theme as the central
organising principle (e.g. diplomacy in 2016; colonial India in 2017; lived experience in 2019). Two
history colleagues contribute annually to the research-informed sessions of the Sutton Trust
Summer School. The department also holds 4-5 in-school events annually where staff take their
research specialisms to school audiences (e.g. CTaylor and Darby on heresy, 2016; Greenwood
on Florence Nightingale, 2019). A recent collaboration with the School of Education enabled
Merton, Badcock and Holland to actively inform the delivery of Key Stage 3 History.
4.3 Engagement with Diverse Communities and Publics
Partnerships formed locally, regionally and internationally have enabled us to engage
collaboratively with diverse communities and publics and respond actively to national and
international priorities and initiatives:
i. community-led initiatives, spanning Nottinghamshire and Derbyshire have been particularly
prominent. Highlights include: Beckett’s CHH of the First Word War, involving nine local community
partnerships, and his ICS ‘Green Spaces’; Beckett and Gaunt, who have delivered >120 talks to
local history societies; Baron, who has worked regularly with a local Ukrainian History group on
displaced persons; Appleby, who has given talks to the Cromwell Association, Lincolnshire Family
History Society and Nottinghamshire Local History Association; Greenwood who has organised
two interactive workshops for adult learners using Boots archive materials and acted as a Family
Learning Session Leader in a Black community workshop ‘Africa: Slavery, Empire, Independence
and Mobility’.
ii. members of the public with an interest in history. In total, staff have delivered 124 public
talks, excluding the >120 given by Beckett and Gaunt (see 4.3.i), including to: the Historical
Association (Badcock, Baron, Dodd, Merton, Appleby); U3A (Dodd and Appleby); the Probus Club
and the Rotary Club (Greenwood); and a 2019 public talk on ‘Working-Class Education’ in Delhi
(Kumar). Notable lecture series include Laven’s six invited lectures in the US and Italy (2014-18);
CTaylor’s five public lectures on Magna Carta (2015) and the series of masterclasses on medieval
heresy, Nottingham (2014, 2015) by Lutton, CTaylor and Darby. Umbach has designed two joint
British Library/UoN MOOCs, ‘Propaganda and Ideology in Everyday Life’, and ‘Learning from
History? A Practical Guide for the Curious Researcher’; Beckett’s CHH of the First World War has
led to 22 projects with community organisations; and Harvey’s work on the DFG-funded project
‘The Persecution and Murder of the European Jews by Nazi Germany’, has utilised social media
platforms as well as public presentations (including an event at Yad Vashem, Jerusalem, 2019).


4.4 Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by research base:
One of the Department’s principal contributions to the sustainability of the discipline, and evidence
of its responsiveness to national and international priorities and initiatives, is our leadership of and
participation in the structures of national and international scholarship:
i) Membership of Research Council or similar national/international committees
Five staff (Baron, Greenwood, Merritt, Umbach and Gaunt) have served as members of the AHRC
Peer Review College (Umbach’s contribution was acknowledged as outstanding by AHRC in
2019). Other examples of committee membership include: Auerbach as a US-UK Fulbright
Committee alumni and application reviewer; Haggerty on the ESRC Peer Review College, 2016-
19; Kumar’s membership of the Archaeology, History and Culture Research Committee of the
Indian Social Science Congress, 2020; and Greenwood Executive Member (sometimes Chair) of
the Boots-Wellcome Scientific Advisory Panel.
ii) Involvement on university research advisory panels, or national/ international research or
review boards


                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Umbach, as Associate PVC for Research and KE (2015-19), served on the University Research
and KE Committee and helped shape the UoN’s strategy for 2016-20, ensuring that research
investment was available to develop Arts disciplines, including History. This led to the RPA and
IRC investments in the Unit (ADD CROSS REF). Umbach was the Director of UoN’s Research
Leadership Programme (2012-16) and the Faculty’s Arts Research Leadership Programme (2016-
19), supporting academic career development across the Institution and Faculty. Greenwood Co-
Directed the Health Humanities RPA and is a member of the Steering Committee for UoN’s
Wellcome Prime Award, thus enabling the development of Health Humanities expertise across the
institution. Several staff also take leading roles on UoN bodies forging our capacity for international
research, such as JTaylor and Auerbach on the Asia Research Institute Academic Management
Board, with JTaylor additionally being Senior Resident Fellow Taiwan Studies Programme (2016-
present) and Academic Lead on the China Visiting Hub (2015-18). Beyond Nottingham, Merritt was
assessor/panel member for the M3C DTP, 2015, 2018, 2019 recruitment rounds.
iii) Leading positions in subject associations and learned societies
A principal contribution to the sustainability of the discipline, and evidence of our responsiveness to
national and international priorities and initiatives, is our leadership of professional associations
and learned societies. Numerous members of staff have served on the councils of academic
bodies, including Dodd on the Council of the Lincoln Record Society (2015-19); Merritt on the
Executive Board of Pre-Modern Towns Group; JTaylor on the Universities’ China Committee
Executive Council (2018-present); Umbach, on the management committee of German History
Society; Gust and Gehring on the Council of the North American Conference on British Studies;
and Merton executive committee member for Historians of the Twentieth Century United States
(2015-present). Others have taken on specific duties, such as Darby as UK Graduate Coordinator
for the International Society of Anglo-Saxonists (2013-17); or Cobbing and Townsend as Honorary
Secretaries, British Association for Japanese Studies, in 2009-15 and 2013-15 respectively. Some
have become Chairs of organisations, including Badcock (Research and Development Group of
the British Association of Slavonic and East European Studies, 2019-21); Young, British
International History Group (2004-17) and Harvey, German History Society (2014-17).
iv) Editorial positions
An important contribution to the research base is our work on editorial boards. 19 staff serve on the
editorial boards of a total of 26 academic journals or book series. Some play leading roles as
editors of academic journals (Thum, associate editor, Journal of Asian Studies; Wilson, assistant
editor, International Journal of Heritage Studies; and Gaunt, joint editor of Parliamentary History) or
book series (e.g. Cobbing is editor for Brill’s ‘Regional Spaces’ series; Badcock, series editor of
Palgrave’s ‘Studies in European History’; and Young, co-editor of Palgrave’s ‘Security, Conflict and
Cooperation in the Contemporary World’). Balzaretti, Darby, Lutton and CTaylor have run the
Brepol’s ‘Medieval Church Studies’ series since 2017, while Beckett was chair of the journal
Midland History until 2020. Others are book review editors (e.g. Kwan, HABSBURG list (H-Net);
Darby, The Medieval Review (2013-15); and Gust and Gehring, JBS (from 2019).

v) External Examining doctorates/MPhils
During the census period, our academic staff have served as external examiners for 43 PhD and
research Master’s degrees, in the UK and Europe.
 vi) Organisation of conferences and scholarly events
The Department organises an annual series of research seminars and has hosted meetings of the
local branch of the Historical Association. As well as organising sessions within larger conferences
(Lutton, Dodd, Darby and Trombley have all co-organised sessions at the Leeds Medieval
Congress since 2014), staff have organised or co-organised over 30 conferences/workshops
over the census period.

vii) Refereeing academic publications and research proposals
Staff have refereed articles for 143 different journals in the UK and abroad. They have reviewed
book manuscripts for over 30 British and international publishers and have refereed research
proposals for 19 different funders.


                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
viii) Scholarly Awards/Fellowships
20 members of staff are Fellows of the Royal Historical Society. Balzaretti and Beckett are Fellows
of the Society of Antiquaries. Among fellowships held abroad by our staff: Badcock was Jordan
Fellow at New York University (2014); Haggerty was Vietor Fellow at the John Carter Brown
Library (2014); Gust had an Andrew Mellon Post-Doctoral Award in Humanities, University of
Illinois (2013-15); Cobbing secured Japan Foundation Endowment awards for fieldwork in Japan
(2015 and 2018); Trombley was an Andrew Mellon postdoctoral fellow at the Institute of Medieval
Studies, Toronto (2016-17); Umbach was Ida Cordelia Beam Distinguished Visiting Professor,
Iowa (2016), and Senior Research Fellow, Institute for Contemporary History Munich (2015);
Auerbach was Isaac Manasseh Meyer Fellow at the National University of Singapore (2018-19);
and Arnold was a Marie Curie Fellow at Freiburg (2019-20).
Scholarly awards secured by staff include: Dodd, Honorary Professor of Hebei University of
Technology, Tianjin, China (2016); Badcock, joint winner 2017 British Association for Slavonic and
East European Studies Women’s Forum best book; Kumar won the German Historical Institute’s
London Thesis Prize (2018); JTaylor won the John Lent Prize for Best Paper of the Year on
Malaysia, Singapore or Brunei, Association for Asian Studies (US) (2018-19); Auerbach had an
Honourable Mention for the Sutherland Prize competition (2017); and Thum won three book
awards from the American Historical Association, American Anthropological Association and the
Central Asian Studies Society (2015).
ix) Invited keynotes and lectures
 Staff have delivered >300 papers at UK university seminars, UK conferences and Historical
 Association meetings in 2013-20. In addition to these events, we draw particular attention to the
 following selected keynote addresses, invited or named lectures in the UK: Baron, ‘Childhood and
 20th Century Dictatorships’, Warwick; Cobbing, keynote at British Association of Japanese
 Teachers Conference, 2014; Cocks keynote at Transgressions Conference, Cardiff 2015; Hucker,
 keynote at Bath Spa, 2018, on ‘Constructions and Representations of the Popular Voice from c.
 1500 to the Present Day’. Invited appearances at overseas conferences included: Adler keynote at
 ‘Home as a Site of Anti-Jewish Persecution’ conference, Paris 2018; Gust, ‘British History after
 Brexit’, University of Illinois 2016; Trombley’s keynote at the ARDIT International Congress, 2017
 (Barcelona); Gehring, invited speaker on Robert Beale, Osnabrück June 2018; and Young, invited
 speaker at ‘Winston Churchill in Peace and War’, Paris-Sorbonne 2015.

x) Networks
Lutton was a partner in European Cooperation in the Field of Scientific and Technical Research
(Contexts, Strategies and Processes of Religious Transformation in Late Medieval and Early
Modern Europe, 2013-17). He is also a member of ‘The Social Church Network’, ‘Manuscript
Miscellanies Group’ (2015-18) and ‘New Religious Histories Network.’ Hornsey is a member of
‘Space Between Society’ and ‘Entangled Relations’ networks; Arnold a member of ‘The Society for
the Promotion of Urban Discussion’, and founding member of ‘The Coal and Steelworkers’ Study
Group’ network; Cocks is a member of the ‘Sex, Culture and Post-War Britain’ network based at
the University of Reading; Merritt is a member of the ‘Investir dans le Sacré: Europe et Amérique
IX-XXI siècles’ network; Kwan, member of the ‘Midlands Central and Eastern Europe Network’;
Gust a member of the ‘Trans Studies Network’, and the interdisciplinary network ‘Colonial Spaces,
Colonial Power’; Merton is a member of the ‘Presidential History Network’; and Law a member of
the ‘Women’s History Network’. Our staff play a leading role in key bodies: Hornsey co-runs the
‘20s30sNetwork’, while JTaylor is Director of the AHRC/GCRF supported China Ports Network, in
partnership with Hong Kong Maritime Museum and the China ports Museum.

xi) Media
Among staff who have made media appearances are: Badcock, contributed to TV documentaries
on the ‘October Revolution’ (Noahfilms 2017), ‘First World War’ (WagTV 2017) and ‘Russian
Revolution’ (Demand Media 2008), and was interviewed by the BBC World Service on the ‘Russian
Revolution’ (2017) and ‘Women Revolutionaries’ (2017); Cocks has been interviewed for Penguin
News (2014), The Guardian (2015), DNA India (2015) and The Independent (2017), and assisted
production of ‘The Long View’, on Radio 4 (2016); Auerbach has been consultant and interviewee
for The Yesterday Channel and Discovery Science Channel, since 2016; and Umbach was advisor

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
to ‘The Rise of the Nazi Party’ produced by World Media Rights and screened in Europe and
Australia. Merton, was interviewed for the Stylist magazine on 1960s social movements (2017);
and Laven was an invited guest on In Our Time on Garibaldi (Radio 4). Among our one-off media
appearances, Law was an invited guest on Radio 4’s Woman’s Hour, discussing ‘Grace Mugabe:
The Power Behind the Throne?’ (2017); Mawby, spoke on the ‘Anguilla Revolution at 50’, on Radio
Anguilla (2017); and Sen was interviewed by web-based Radio Quarantine Kolkata on her book
Citizen Refugee that has an audience amongst Bengali speakers in India, Bangladesh, USA, UK
and Canada.
xii) Advisory Boards
Highlights include: Harvey’s membership of the Scholarly Advisory Committee of the Institute for
Contemporary History, Munich (since 2013); Merritt’s advisory capacities for the ‘Map of Early
Modern London’ project, Vancouver (since 2016); Hornsey and Greenwood have served on the
Boots-Wellcome Scientific Advisory Panel (since 2015); Greenwood has additionally been a
member of International Advisory Board for International Health Humanities (since 2016), and an
Academic Advisor for Unilever Archives, Liverpool (since 2017); Mawby, has been a member of
the Advisory Council for the Institute of Commonwealth Studies (since 2018); and Gust became a
member of the Royal Historical Society’s LGBT+ working group (from 2019).
xiii) Collaborative Relationships, partnerships and joint research projects
On the local/regional level joint research projects included: Townsend’s Leverhulme Major
Research Project, ‘Motor Cities: Automobility and the Urban Environment in Nagoya and
Birmingham, c.1955-1973’, with Simon Gunn of Leicester (2011-15); Auerbach’s involvement in the
‘Imperial Midlands’ project, with the Universities of Birmingham and Leicester (since 2016); Baron’s
partnership with UoN Information Services, ‘Life Lines’ local community history group, Culture
Syndicates heritage consultancy and Nottinghamshire Archives on the project ‘Curating Online
Resources for Engagement and Learning’ (COREL; 2016-19); and Greenwood’s cross-institutional
grant development with the University of Derby and Bishop Grosseteste University, Lincoln
(‘Women Remembered’). Greenwood has also strengthened ties with local industry through her
Wellcome Trust project ‘Boots and the Colonial World: Imperial Networks and the Business of
Empire’ (2016-17).
At a national level, aside from the co-authorship of publications with colleagues from other
universities, our collaborations/partnerships include: Greenwood’s work with the University of
Lancaster on the AHRC-grant ‘Cradle of Care: From Industry to Health Organisation’; Gust’s
Leverhulme-supported project, ‘Historicising trauma in colonial and post-colonial contexts’ (2017-
18), and work with the University of Sheffield on ‘Enlightenment, Race and Disability’; and
Appleby’s role as CI in the AHRC-supported ‘Welfare, conflict and memory during and after the
English Civil Wars, 1642-1700’, collaborating with colleagues from the Universities of Leicester,
Southampton and Cardiff.
On the international level our activities include: Harvey and Umbach’s participation in the Leibniz-
funded project ‘Private Life under National Socialism project’, based in Munich; JTaylor, was PI on
a BA International Partnership & Mobility Grant (2015-18) with the University of Singapore;
Greenwood’s GCRF/AHRC grant on the history of colonial soil surveys works with partners at the
University of Zambia. Auerbach’s involvement in the ‘Plantation Transformations’ project with Tufts
University and the International Institute of Social History (Netherlands), since 2018, plus his roles
in ‘Historical Dimensions of Migration to the Nordic and Northern European Countries’, with the
University of Turku since 2018 and ‘Lost Futures in Britain and the Empire’, with the University of
North Carolina and King’s College London since 2015.




                                                                                              Page 17
