Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Reading

 Unit of Assessment: UOA11 – Computer Science and Informatics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview
 The UOA is coincident with a new Department of Computer Science (established August 2016)
 within the School of Mathematical, Physical and Computational Sciences (SMPCS) and an
 associated Computer Science Research Division within the University’s Environment Research
 Theme. Led by a Research Division Leader (RDL), our research is organised into three
 groupings, which collectively represent our applied and interdisciplinary approach to data and
 computational science: Computational Vision (CV), Data Science and Artificial Intelligence
 (DSAI), and Advanced Computing for Environmental Science (ACES). CV addresses
 computational issues of perception and reasoning in relation to image interpretation, at the
 forefront of international security research. DSAI researches machine learning, data mining, big
 data analytics devoted to algorithms, and techniques and applications for data-driven knowledge
 discovery from big data. ACES conducts cutting-edge research in computer science to
 accelerate environmental science.

 Position since REF2014
 Since REF2014 (when Computer Science was a subject group within a wider School of Systems
 Engineering, submitted under UOA13), the subject group was identified as an area of excellence
 in its own right and received substantial investment by the University in launching as a new
 department. The establishment of a new identity, in conjunction with extensive working
 relationships we have built with local, regional and global business and third sector
 organisations, has: supported and strengthened our research agenda; led to a significant income
 and outputs quality profile; and resulted in realisation of significant impact under each research
 grouping.

 Research strategy
 Our vision is to deliver international excellence in applied and interdisciplinary research in data
 and computational science, based upon an excellent core of fundamental computer science, and
 to realise significant and far-reaching interdisciplinary impact.

 As a newly formed Unit, our key aims within the REF period have been to:
    • build up a critical mass of staff
    • maintain and build on existing strengths while focusing on emerging activities which have
        considerable impact potential
    • increase collaborative interdisciplinary activity with the School, wider University and
        external collaborators
    • attain high-quality journal publications
    • target funding sources most suited to delivering aims 1 to 4.

 We have met (1) through a round of strategic appointments since 2013 (including Assistant,
 Associate and Full Professors) totalling eight staff. This has grown our Category A FTE count
 from 6 to 10.4 representing a small but critical mass of academics covering the core areas of
 Data Science and Computational Science.

 To meet (2), existing strength in Computational Vision (CV) was validated by generating
 sustained and significant targeted research income, outputs and impact (see REF3b), while
 existing and emerging activity in data and computational science was consolidated into two new
 research groups, namely Data Science and Artificial Intelligence (DSAI) and Advanced
 Computing for Environmental Science (ACES).




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To meet (3), the creation of ACES has increased collaborative interdisciplinary activity,
 specifically supporting SMPCS and the University’s Environment Research Theme in conducting
 cutting-edge research in computer science to accelerate environmental science. We have also
 established new relationships with a wide range of companies, third sector and government
 organisations to maximise the relevance and use of our work.

 For (4), we have published 385 papers in international peer-reviewed journals and conference
 proceedings (314 in journals classified as Computer Science by Scival). Of these 314, 40.5%
 are in Q1 (by SNIP) Computer Science journals, with three in every five outputs (57%) resulting
 from international collaborations.

 For (5), we have won large collaborative interdisciplinary grants of >£5.5m overall EU research
 income (with a total of ~£7m, or £95k/year per FTE, from all sources) since 2014 (see Section
 3).

 Our future strategic goals are to:
    • Support new emerging and focused areas of research in data science and machine
        learning (e.g. interpretability and explainability of AI, scalable and efficient machine
        learning).
    • Strengthen interdisciplinary and applied research both within the University and
        externally, incorporating, for example, the joint topic of machine learning and data
        simulation bridging Computer Science, Mathematics and Meteorology, with significant
        impact potential in areas including medicine and climate science.
    • Further strengthen our links with industry and establish other strategic partnerships.
    • Embrace and demonstrate a strong commitment to open research to further the
        usefulness of our work.

 Research themes, achievements, and future 5-year research goals
 Achievements and strategic plans for each of our research groups are summarised below. Note
 that staff can be affiliated to more than one grouping.

 Computational Vision (CV) (Badii, Di Fatta, Ferryman, Hong, Wei)
 This research group exploits synergies between focused areas of computer vision and image
 analysis and real-world applications, supported by substantial grant awards totalling >£3.3m
 from the EU since 2014. Contributions from this approach are reinforced through close
 collaborations with end users and a wide range of stakeholders, from domains covering critical
 infrastructure protection to border security to remote sensing. Strategic areas of interest and
 achievements include:
     • Two major collaborative EU projects (FASTPASS, PROTECT, one led by Reading with
         grant value €5m, total €1.97m to Reading) have profiled Reading as a world leader in
         identity solutions for border security. Ferryman’s work (as lead on main technological
         workstream on traveller identification in FastPass) on multimodal biometrics and counter
         spoofing led to the world’s first deployment and evaluation of a harmonised on-the-move
         biometric identification system in a real operational setting for both cruise ships and land
         borders (with vehicles). The follow-on PROTECT project (led by Ferryman) developed,
         trialled and evaluated the world’s first pervasive border control no-gate crossing point
         solution and was shortlisted for the Times Higher Education Awards 2020 in the STEM
         research category. The solution integrates non-stop contactless biometrics on-the-move,
         exploiting mobile devices, advanced passports and tracking through re-identification, and
         is applicable to air, sea and land borders and commercialisation and standards
         development thereof.
     • Furthering the biometrics work, Wei developed an approach to user authentication based
         on non-conventional keystroke dynamics. Remaining within the domain of border
         security, Ferryman’s work in FastPass and PROTECT, as well as EU EFFISEC (€547k
         to Reading), led to development of novel video analytics for abnormality detection (e.g.
         left luggage detection, tailgating), abnormal behaviour detection, and dynamic queue
         estimation, supporting border guards’ monitoring at checkpoints.

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   A further four major collaborative EU projects (VideoSense, led by Reading, overall value
        €5.28m, £1.12m to Reading; P5 (Privacy Preserving Perimeter Protection Project);
        ARENA; IPATCH, total €1.48m to Reading) led to:
    •   establishment of framework for personalisable context-aware privacy filtering/masking of
        video-audio (Badii)
    •   development of TRL7 open and flexible architecture for multimodal sensing and analysis
        (robust object detection, tracking, classification and especially semantic activity
        characterisation and unified action recognition enabling abnormality discovery and threat
        detection) for both real-time ground-based fixed and on-board mobile asset (critical
        infrastructure) protection (Ferryman).
    •   The research extended to development of universal privacy protection measures
        applicable to both visible and thermal imagery, with anticipated impact on wide
        deployment of automated video surveillance solutions (Ferryman).
    •   Wei's work broadened our research into the application of computer vision to remote
        sensing (in collaboration with the University of Indonesia), and image registration for 3D
        surface reconstruction (in collaboration with Tianjin University). Ferryman’s research into
        development of algorithms for analysing full waveform airborne LiDAR for characterising
        vegetation has made a significant contribution to automatic determination of
        tree/vegetation structure, quantity, and growth. Furthermore, extracted information can
        be used both for rural scene classification and canopy height profiling with release of an
        open-source toolkit. In the long term, there is likely to be impact in environmental
        planning as well as in understanding the dynamics of the global carbon cycles.
    •   Wei’s work on image fusion, in collaboration with Wang (Tianjin University), contributed
        to China’s 2019 historic robot moon landing through 3D reconstruction of the moon’s
        surface from satellite imagery. Hong’s work on subspace clustering is widely applicable
        to real-world data (e.g. faces and handwritten digits images).
    •   Ferryman’s leading role in benchmarking, specifically scenario-led benchmarking on
        tracking and surveillance (PETS), has led to worldwide impact (including industrial
        application) in development of video surveillance systems, especially for crowded scenes
        and for applications (e.g. critical infrastructure protection). Further related work includes
        development of a novel method for performance diagnosis of video trackers, with
        anticipated impact on improving robustness of surveillance systems.

 Our five-year goals for CV are to expand research, deployment and practitioner-led validation
 of our research. This includes: novel approaches to identification, addressing the whole identity
 lifecycle (e.g. new €736k EU project D4fly integrating biometrics on-the-move and alternative
 technologies to identifying people); multimodal, multisensory surveillance (e.g. EU FOLDOUT
 €458k) on through-foliage sensing and alarming in harsh environments for (border) security;
 enhancing impact; and pursuing new large collaborative grants. We will develop strategic
 partnerships with industry, working via the University’s Knowledge Transfer Centre and Innovate
 UK, to: (1) widen our funding base; (2) explore opportunities for further development and
 knowledge transfer of identity and surveillance solutions; and (3) strengthen promotion of our
 work in security research.

 Advanced Computing for Environmental Sciences (ACES) (Kunkel, Lawrence, Maynard)
 The ACES group provides a nexus for developing and exploiting advanced computer science
 techniques for deployment in real applications of multidisciplinary environmental science;
 leveraging the world-class meteorology and mathematics research within SMPCS and close
 collaborations with the UK Met Office and the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather
 Forecasts (ECMWF).

 Close collaborators include staff from the Institute for Environmental Analytics (IEA), the
 Computational Modelling Services unit of the National Centre for Atmospheric Science (NCAS),
 and both the Centre for Environmental Data Analysis (CEDA) and the Scientific Computing
 Department of the UKRI Science and Technology Facilities Council (STFC).



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Strategic areas of interest and achievements include:
     • Storage systems and input/output performance: Work in this area is led by Kunkel and
        includes analysing HPC storage system performance, his leadership role in establishing
        the IO500 which describes supercomputing storage system performance, and new
        methods of choosing storage compression technologies. Funding includes an Advanced
        Storage Management (ASM) technology transfer grant to Kunkel from the European
        Commission. Further, Lawrence has a leadership role within the European Centre of
        Excellence in Weather and Climate Computing (ESiWACE) for storage and workflow
        solutions for exascale computing.
     • Energy and Performance: Some of the first published detailed analyses of methods for
        energy savings from systems scheduling (Kunkel) and applications (Kunkel), with
        measurements and plans for understanding power consumption in climate science
        (Lawrence).
     • Metadata systems and computing infrastructure: The development of metadata schema
        for describing numerical simulation workflows with application (Lawrence). Architecture
        and implementation of the Earth System Grid Federation in support of climate model
        intercomparison (Lawrence). Lawrence’s role in the development of cloud computing for
        JASMIN and establishing global climate computing infrastructure. Architecting and
        building systems for delivering open data for the European Space Agency.
     • Next generation systems and programmability: Early thinking on use of quantum-based
        circuits. Maynard’s development of mixed precision arithmetic high-performance
        numerical solvers now operationally in use at the Met Office, with multigrid solvers for the
        next generation models. Work on extreme scaling of weather and climate simulations
        codes. A leadership role in exposing exascale-coding issues.

 Our five-year goals for ACES: Motivated by ever-growing challenges around extreme scale
 simulation, our goals are to continue to focus on computer science problems relevant to cutting-
 edge weather and climate simulation as well as more general applicability to exascale simulation
 workflows (especially for data handling). Existing partnerships with national (Met Office, NCAS)
 and international organisations (Argonne National Laboratory (ANL), ECMWF, German Climate
 Computing Centre (DKRZ), National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR), Oak Ridge
 National Laboratory (ORNL), Sandia National Laboratories) will be strengthened, alongside new
 and existing relationships with the storage industry (DDN, KOVE, Seagate). We will also build on
 the relationship with UK NVIDIA AI Technical Centre, in partnership with the University of
 Edinburgh and the STFC Hartree Centre, to exploit ML and AI techniques in environmental
 science.

 ACES will continue to focus on delivering impact via research and development that can be
 directly applied in environmental science software and computing infrastructure (e.g. to support
 scalable performant weather and climate models, the Met Office supercomputing and analysis
 systems, the JASMIN supercomputer, European supercomputing systems and the global Earth
 System Grid Federation), as well targeting industrial partnerships.

 Data Science and Artificial Intelligence (DSAI) (Badii, Di Fatta, Lester, Liang, Nicosia, Ojha,
 Stahl, Thorne)
 DSAI focuses on research activities on algorithms for data mining and machine learning, as well
 as systems and applications for multidisciplinary data-driven knowledge discovery. The activities
 are supported by a significant and diverse grant portfolio (primarily from the Australian Research
 Council, BBSRC, EU, Innovate UK, NERC).

 Strategic areas of interest and achievements include:
 Data mining and big data analytics:
     • Application of highly innovative data stream classification (Stahl) for 1) performance
        bottlenecks and fault detection (EPSRC Fast Generalised Rule Induction, £98k, with
        partner BT) and 2) real-time smart home intrusion detection (EU CHIST-ERA COCOON,
        €120k to Reading). A KTP project with Exonar Ltd. (Di Fatta, Stahl) for a document
        classification platform to help large organisations to identify, monitor and protect from

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       leakage very large and distributed sets of confidential documents within private networks.
       A KTP project with Churchill Controls Ltd. (Stahl) on data management and analytics
       support for the next generation of telemetry equipment for the water industry; a KTP
       project with One Sight Solutions (Stahl) resulting in development of an innovative
       dashboard system to support storage and analysis of building lifetime data for the
       intelligent building control sector. Research collaboration with KNIME (Switzerland) (Di
       Fatta) on algorithms for advanced and guided data science.
 Applications for data-driven knowledge discovery:
    • Significant industrial engagement via KTP (Hong, Ojha) with Optimal Monitoring Ltd. on
       development of a world-leading automated anomaly detection platform for energy
       management (EMMA AI) led to the winning of the prestigious 2019 Wright Commission
       award.
    • An EPSRC project (Hong) for online monitoring of nuclear power plants based on new
       approaches to improve the prediction of critical faults in nuclear reactors, in collaboration
       with the University of Portsmouth.
 Systems for data-driven social computing:
    • Project led by Reading, EU SciCafe 2.0 (Badii, €339k to Reading): the creation and
       curation of the European Observatory for Crowd-Sourcing, a portable virtual platform and
       observatory for crowd-sourcing and extending wiki-based and other media and
       knowledge bases with an invitational and customisable interface, to engage both
       offline/online communities and support them in joint deliberation to resolve real
       problems/dilemmas faced by society.
    • Development of next-generation system for 2nd screen services in a social media
       context, whereby valuable business intelligence is captured, analysed and used to push
       relevant content directly to consumers (EU SAM, Badii, €343k to Reading).
    • Development of an innovative digital toolkit (Liang) to enhance communication of
       scientific health claims (EU EIT FOOD Health Claims Unpacked).
    • Improvement of workplace-based assessment and feedback through learning analytics
       and e-portfolio (EU WATCHME, Badii, €428k to Reading).
    • Novel adaptation of techniques originally applied to genomics to enable privacy-
       preserving speech processing in the cloud (with Intelligent Voice Ltd., UKRI, Badii,
       £110k to Reading).
 Machine learning and optimisation algorithms:
    • Innovative research work on multi-objective optimisation (Nicosia) showing that (1)
       different real-world transport networks (airplanes, trains, buses) can all be characterised
       in terms of Pareto Optimality, (2) worldwide ethanol production could potentially be
       doubled, and (3) higher efficiency solar cells can be realised.
    • Novel method for modelling metabolic fluxes (with open source software), and research
       on gene regulatory network inference, enabling new biological insights (Thorne).
    • Other research work on nonlinear dimensionality reduction for image analysis with
       potentially important applications in several domains such as pharmaceutical drug design
       and border access control (Hong).

 Our five-year goals for DSAI are to: (1) develop a focused area of research in data science
 and machine learning, specifically in interpretability and explainability of AI and in scalable and
 efficient machine learning; (2) strengthen interdisciplinary and applied research including, for
 example, in the joint topic of machine learning and data simulation; (3) apply our expertise in
 advanced data analytics to new application domains, e.g. coordination of EU-wide IOT
 blockchain-enabled security framework for next generation critical cyber-physical systems for the
 finance sector (CRITICAL-CHAINS, Badii, Di Fatta, overall grant value €5m, €696k for
 Reading); and to consolidate and build up existing activity, e.g. EIT Food work with follow-on
 funding (Horizon2020) (Liang).

 Research integrity: open and reproducible research
 Adopting the University’s proactive approach to open research (as the first UK university to
 adopt an institutional statement on open research, see IES, Section 2), we develop tools and


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 standards to support manipulating, sharing, and archiving data (e.g. CEDA with Meteorology),
 and to generate open data portals and reproducible numerical simulation (e.g. CMIP6) leading to
 standards and requirements which have become de-facto (e.g. cfconventions, es-doc). We
 produce open-source software and platforms (e.g. Generalised Rules Induction, LinkSmart,
 KNIME certification in Data Science) and benchmarking methodology, software and datasets
 (e.g. IOR, IO500). Released in 2017, IO500 now follows a regular bi-annual release cycle at two
 premier HPC conferences with 3000+ and 14,000+ attendees and gained significant attention
 from the HPC community and vendors in the storage area. We organised four PETS
 benchmarking workshops between 2014 and 2017, continuing leadership of this world-leading
 activity since 2000, and we developed the MediaEval benchmark for multimedia evaluation.
 Open Access APC charges are included as part of other direct eligible costs in grant proposals
 wherever possible.

 Research integrity: ethical, professional and legal obligations and standards
 The SMPCS Ethics Committee reviews all relevant research projects, with those requiring
 further scrutiny reviewed at University level. We lead by example, generating informed consent
 processes for our EU projects involving (sensitive) personal data which now act as a reference
 for other (external) EU projects. Our annual Professional Development Review process
 incorporates a strong professional standards aspect which reinforces issues of research integrity
 and provides an opportunity for consideration of training needs. Our staff are made aware of the
 values set out in the University Code of Good Practice in Research and responsibilities under
 the Concordat to Support Research Integrity through this process.

 Supporting interdisciplinary research
 As described in the Institutional Environment Statement (IES, Section 1), the University’s
 research activity is structured around four interdisciplinary research themes. Computer Science
 is one of nine Research Divisions that make up the Environment Theme, and we have close
 working links in particular with the three Divisions in Meteorology.

 Interdisciplinarity is core to our research vision and is a central ethos of our research culture. We
 have strategically focused on developing interdisciplinary work with the wider SMPCS by
 appointing Lawrence and Maynard, who have world-leading expertise in climate science. This
 has resulted in new knowledge (including in exploiting AI/ML in both data exploitation and
 simulation, cloud and exascale computing) and opportunities being brought into the Unit which
 can also be used to tackle industrial applications.

 A new interdisciplinary area of advanced computer science applied to medicine was realised
 through establishment in 2017 of a Joint Academic Board between the University and Royal
 Berkshire NHS Foundation Trust (RBFT), leading to a new strand of research for us and a
 successful funding bid by Liang (see Section 4). Further, we focused on, and were highly
 successful in, targeting multi-year EU research funding, which is inherently interdisciplinary (see
 Sections 3, 4).

 Impact strategy and development
 During the assessment period we have implemented a range of initiatives to embed engagement
 and impact at all levels of our research and to maximise impact opportunities. The majority of
 our research proposals have been co-created with industry and other stakeholders (hard-wiring
 impact into the research process), and staff and PhD students have been provided with
 increased resources, tools and training to develop impact opportunities. Impact is incorporated
 into staff performance targets (e.g. probation, personal development review, work-load models
 and promotion processes) and is an important consideration in recruitment of new academic
 staff. Staff are encouraged to submit projects to the University’s annual Research Engagement
 and Impact Awards, which recognises and celebrates best practice in this area.

 We have strengthened our link to user communities by expanding membership of our Industrial
 Advisory Board, organising events involving practitioners, and maintaining active links with
 partners and beneficiaries following project completion (e.g. continued engagement with the

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Home Office in the wake of EU PROTECT led to EU D4fly and ultimately continued and new
 impact).

 Impact leadership has been strengthened through the appointment of an academic Impact Lead
 within the Unit, supported by an Impact Development Manager for the Environment Theme
 (based in Research and Enterprise Services, RES). The strong institutional support and seed-
 funding available, from the University’s impact support programme (BOISP, see IES, Section
 2.3) brought c.£30k to the Unit and is reflected in our submitted impact case studies, which
 demonstrate our focus on interdisciplinary research answering to real user needs and are based
 on strong evidence-based narratives. Beyond our impact case studies, Section 4 highlights
 examples of our many short-term and ongoing impacts within the REF period.

 Going forwards, a vital goal will be to build on existing strong industrial engagements and to
 forge new relationships, particularly within the Thames Valley tech sector via the University-led
 Thames Valley AI Hub (see Section 4). Further, we will benefit with increased working
 relationships with the Reading-based IEA and ECMWF that provide a meaningful link between
 science and the translation of environmental data into societal impact.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development
        We strive to create a diverse and inclusive community and environment that attracts,
        supports, develops and rewards excellent computer science researchers in their careers
        and in working to our research goals, with equality and diversity at the forefront.

 In this assessment period, we have built up our staff from 6.0 FTE to 10.4 FTE, with a focus on
 recruiting ECRs, developed existing staff toward senior positions, and increased our research
 capacity by recruiting dedicated teaching staff (to reduce researchers’ workloads). This has
 given us a solid foundation for the coming period to tackle our research goals.

 Recruitment and development of staff are crucial aspects of our vision and key to our future
 success in achieving our research and impact goals. We determine areas for recruitment with
 reference to research as well as teaching needs. Practices and policies across our UOA adhere
 to our values and culture of promoting equality, diversity, inclusion and wellbeing for all of our
 students and staff, mirroring those of the wider University. Selection processes and panels are
 formed with diverse staff who receive training in D&I, unconscious bias and responsible use of
 metrics, with all our staff having completed mandatory D&I training within the last three years.

 All Category A eligible staff are being returned to the REF. Among our staff, we have a BAME
 representation of 25% UK and 50% non-UK nationals. 27% of our staff are female, which is
 above the sector average of 14 to 21%, according to HESA data. Our grade profile is now 36%
 Lecturer, 27% Associate Professor and 37% at Professorial level, reflecting a combination of our
 own as well as University support towards recruitment of ECRs and internal staff promotion.

 Building a critical mass
 Our recruitment has resulted in eight new academic T&R appointments (five Assistant, two
 Associate and one full Professor), increasing our FTE count by ~75% (from 6.0 to 10.4 FTE).
 The strategic dual/joint appointments of Lawrence and Maynard, together with the appointment
 of Kunkel, led to the setting up of the ACES group to conduct cutting-edge computer science
 research to accelerate environmental science. The appointment of ECRs Lester, Liang, Ojha,
 Thorne, in addition to existing staff Badii, Di Fatta, Stahl, has built up the expertise and remit of
 DSAI. Our third research group (CV) has remained unchanged in staffing and retained its
 successful focus on computational vision applied to physical security and remote sensing. The
 strategic appointments of Nicosia and Thorne enhanced our interdisciplinary capacity in AI,
 applied to synthetic biology, bioengineering and bioinformatics. We additionally recruited two
 Teaching Fellows, reducing the teaching load for Category A staff to enhance our research
 capacity.

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Career development support
 We work to sustain and develop an inclusive environment that enables and supports
 researchers to thrive and prepares them for future careers. All academic staff have an annual
 Performance and Development Review (PDR) with their line manager, providing an opportunity
 to discuss and reflect on achievements, career plans and support or training needs. PDRs also
 enable the Head of Department, RDL and Research Dean to identify common needs or
 challenges and work towards ways to address them.

 As well as internal funding opportunities, all staff have access to a wide range of training and
 development opportunities run by People Development, including personal development,
 communications skills, publishing, open research and grant applications. Research staff receive
 specialised guidance on developing research independence from RES, including a dedicated
 Research Development Manager who supports all Computer Science funding applications.
 Within the UOA, we offer further, tailored support, primarily led by the RDL. Support and training
 for RDLs is achieved through multiple processes such as regular Community of Practice
 meetings within the Environment Theme and via the Research Deans’ office.

 Research excellence and engagement has contributed to the promotion of three members of
 staff: two to Professor (Di Fatta, Ferryman); one to Associate Professor (Stahl). The School
 holds Personal Titles meetings each year to proactively identify candidates for promotion and to
 provide mentoring where appropriate to strengthen cases, including for self-nominations.

 We employ relatively small numbers of postdoctoral researchers, mostly on a fixed-term basis
 linked with funded projects, who therefore have a more fluid career progression. Training for
 PDRAs, provided by professional services teams, includes sessions on open research and
 research data management, research communications and University finance processes. We
 proactively seek ways to provide greater security of employment for PDRAs, including: (i)
 ensuring fixed-term contracts run for as long as possible, especially on renewal, ideally several
 years for multi-year grants; (ii) providing bridging facilities, and (iii) maintaining an SMPCS list of
 research staff who are nearing the end of their contracts so that opportunities for re-employment
 can be maximised. PDRAs are entitled to the same enhancement opportunities as lecturing staff
 and are supported to engage in small amounts of teaching to gain experience and enhance
 employability. Several internal funding schemes are also open to PDRAs (including seed-funding
 awards, travel and undergraduate research placements). During the assessment period our
 PDRAs have used such awards to devise and lead on interdisciplinary events (e.g. 2018
 workshop on Behaviour Analysis of Ageing People at Home, co-organised with researchers in
 Psychology).

 We follow University policies and procedures to provide support for personal circumstances,
 including flexible or part-time working, maternity/parental/adoption leave, ill-health or caring
 responsibilities. A dedicated SMPCS website includes case studies of the benefits this can
 deliver for individuals and teams, drawn from our community. Circumstances can be raised as
 part of PDR discussions and are also considered in the promotion process.

 All permanent staff have a Staff Development Account which receives an annual fixed sum from
 School funds and variable income relating to research grant awards and consultancies. The
 account can be used for equipment purchases, travel, conference attendance and payments to
 research staff. In addition, all academic research staff can apply for a sabbatical period (typically
 6-12 months), which is considered depending on how the proposed research project fits with our
 research strategy as well as staff development objectives. Two have been awarded since 2014
 (Hong for six months for a collaboration with Imperial College London; Badii for 12 months for a
 collaboration with the University of Notre Dame).

 Enhancing our stability is that fact that all staff in this submission are on permanent contracts.
 Leadership roles are generally cycled every three to five years, providing career development

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 opportunities and fresh perspectives. Thus, processes that support succession planning are well
 embedded within Computer Science driving a strong culture of leadership ambition and
 achievement.

 Early-career researchers: supporting excellence and ambition
 Early-career members of academic staff (Kunkel, Lester, Liang, Ojha, Thorne) were each
 assigned a mentor to provide individual support, independent of their line manager. We have
 worked to improve mentoring (e.g. on grant applications), adopting the wider SMPCS process.
 Our ECRs attend training workshops organised by RES, which include opportunities to network
 with researchers from other Divisions and Themes. University policy provides ECRs with a 3-
 year probation period, and expectations and specific probation targets are discussed and agreed
 with the Head of Department to ensure they can establish themselves as independent
 researchers. ECRs are afforded a reduced teaching/administration load during probation to help
 build research momentum, as well as start-up funds (~£3k) and/or a fully funded PhD student.
 The success of these measures is demonstrated by the prominence of contributions by ECRs in
 winning DTP studentships and KTPs. Ojha won one studentship jointly with Professor Carrassi
 in Meteorology – a collaboration between machine learning and data assimilation to infer,
 estimate and characterise model errors. The second is joint with Wei – on smart LED lighting for
 eco and assisted living (with Kosnic Lighting Ltd.), providing expertise in AI and machine
 learning and enabling access to electronic and sensor systems expertise. ECRs have also been
 successful in winning EU funding (Liang: EIT FOOD).

 Supporting and rewarding staff
 SMPCS runs an annual Rewarding Excellence process for all staff, which enables accelerated
 progression (via additional spinal point increment(s) or in Grade). In addition, the University has
 arrangements to reward staff via lump sum awards considered twice-yearly, with decisions made
 at School level, or Celebrating Success awards, to recognise and reward staff for a job well done
 or for the demonstration of positive professional behaviours. Over the assessment period, five of
 our full-time staff (two female and three male) have been awarded contribution points.

 Knowledge exchange with industry, public and third sector bodies
 We promote and support enterprise activities via (1) the Knowledge Transfer Centre, with a
 dedicated Business Relationship Manager for the Environment Theme, (2) the Thames Valley AI
 Hub and (3) user-focused collaborative projects such as PROTECT, see Section 4. Individual
 academics also engage with industry, e.g. Kunkel has run a series of collaborative workshops
 covering storage technologies and developed a new collaboration with NVIDIA. Our strategic
 appointments have facilitated two-way knowledge exchange e.g. Maynard’s dual position with
 the Met Office has enabled research students and staff to be introduced to new ways of
 developing applications with domain specific languages, and Lawrence and Maynard have
 together developed collaborations around next-generation application development. Lawrence’s
 partnership with STFC has resulted in new ways of using cloud computing in environmental
 science.

 Promoting diversity and inclusion
                                      We are committed to Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) and are
                                      proud of the Athena SWAN Silver Award received by
                                      SMPCS. An Equality and Diversity committee is led by a
                                      dedicated Director of Wellbeing, Inclusion, Diversity &
                                      Equality (WIDE) and is embedded into the School’s
                                      management structure. Staff at all research levels
                                      (including PDRA) are represented on the committee. All
                                      staff receive D&I training and our key staff have received
                                      unconscious and implicit bias training. During the
                                      assessment period we have improved professional skills
 development by incorporating D&I training into PGR skills modules.



                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A strong culture of flexible working has developed, particularly following constraints imposed by
 COVID-19, as well as for students with disabilities, including tailored provision of computing
 equipment for remote use. We proactively support wellbeing through Stress Management
 Workshops, a regular WIDE newsletter, trained Wellbeing Peer Support staff volunteers, and
 SMPCS Wellbeing webpage. All PGR supervisors have access to a Graduate Briefing guide on
 how to support student wellbeing. There is also a blog for students led by an external wellbeing
 consultant, as well as Graduate School drop-in sessions. We actively promote accessibility and
 inclusivity of research degrees, and we ensure female staff representation at Open Days to
 provide role models for all prospective students. Overall, we strive to cultivate an open,
 interactive and friendly working environment.

 E&D with respect to REF submission
 In line with the University’s Code of Practice, while output quality is the main selection criterion,
 diversity across a range of characteristics (gender, ethnicity, career stage) was taken into
 account in the selection of outputs. Notably, 37.5% of submitted outputs are from women (1.5
 times the 25% proportion of women in the return), 29% are authored by Assistant Professors,
 17% from Associate Professors, and 54% from Professors. Furthermore, almost one third are
 from ECRs. The University’s interim Equality Impact Assessment carried out a main panel level
 (2020) and bias analysis of the final pool (2021) identified no statistically significant differences
 for protected characteristics in our selection.

 Support for research students
 Our vibrant and growing community of PhD students is well integrated in our research groups
 and activities, supported by our PGR Programme Director and the Graduate School. We offer
 flexible modes of study (including PhD by distance), and all research-active staff supervise
 postgraduate researchers and act as assessors for PGR monitoring. 27% of our current PhD
 cohort are female, 63% are non-UK nationals and 7% have a disability. We have significantly
 increased the proportion of BAME students from the UK, from 6% in 2013/14 to 64% in 2019/20.

 PGR recruitment: With 63% international students in 2019/20, we attract a large number of
 international students funded by national governments. Furthermore, 37% of the 2019/20 cohort
 are part-time, demonstrating our commitment to supporting flexible study. There are ~25 funded
 or self-funded PhD projects proposed each year by our staff and widely advertised.
 All applications are facilitated by the Unit’s PGR Programme Director and overseen by the
 Graduate School. For admission it is required that interviews are held with two staff either in
 person or by video/phone for international students, with further review by the PGR Coordinator.
 In line with SMPCS policy, we adopt a proactive and inclusive approach to recruitment of
 students with protected characteristics.

                                                              We have been successful in winning
                                                              studentships including from EPSRC
                                                              DTP, NERC DTP and Wilkie Calvert
                                                              (with TUI, UK). Some of these are
                                                              jointly supported by industry partners,
                                                              with contributions in partial fees or
                                                              staff time, e.g. BT and Kosnic Ltd.
                                                              International government sponsors
                                                              include Brazil, Iraq, Libya, Nigeria,
                                                              Saudi Arabia and Thailand.

                                                              PGR monitoring, support mechanisms
                                                              and skills development: The School
                                                              PhD handbook provides essential
                                                              information to new students on
                                                              general orientation, training, and
                                                              monitoring and progression. The
                                                              Graduate School coordinates

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 postgraduate researcher training with a threshold of achievement required by all PhD students to
 progress beyond their first year. Bi-annual monitoring of each student is carried out by a
 Committee of two assessors based on submitted reports to ensure that students are making
 satisfactory progress and are receiving appropriate levels of supervision and support.
 Confirmation of PhD registration after a year (or part-time equivalent) is granted only after
 assessment of a comprehensive transfer report.

 There is an annual welcome event for new PhD students and a PhD workshop. PGRs are
 strongly encouraged to attend departmental seminars (mainly given by external speakers), as
 well as to attend at least one international conference during their studies with each student
 allocated £1000 for travel. Other activities include organised trips (e.g. annual Computer Science
 visits to Bletchley Park and JASMIN Data Centre at Rutherford Appleton Laboratory), reading
 groups organised by PhD students, and active participation of PGRs in the Unit’s Data Science
 Club and hackathons. Welfare support is available through Student Services and the student
 Counselling and Wellbeing Service.

 The success of our PGRs is evidenced by the high number of doctoral degrees awarded in the
 assessment period (45, or the equivalent of 4.36 per FTE, 90% with minor amendments).
 Between 2014/15 to 2019/20, over a third of our PGRs were self-funded. Following completion,
 a number have returned to permanent academic positions in their home countries or hold R&D
 positions.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research funding portfolio, impact and strategies for income generation

 We have achieved research income
 totaling £6.93m in the assessment
 period (£95k/FTE per annum). The
 strategy to pursue larger collaborative
 grants led to a substantial £5.6m total of
 awards from the EU. Our engagement
 with UK industry yielded awards totalling
 over £1m from KTPs over the same
 timeframe. We achieved this through
 new support staff, structures and
 resources to PIs (time, travel funding,
 including travel for EU grant applications,
 reduced workload and internal peer
 review offered for all grant applications).
 RES provides support in all aspects of
 preparing and managing research
 grants, in particular fellowships and large
 collaborative grants. For the latter, an EU-team with a dedicated funding manager for the
 Environment Theme organises sessions and information days on specific funding instruments,
 an annual EU research opportunities event, and has developed a repository of successful grant
 applications representing good practice (including some provided by our Unit), all of which have
 contributed to a high success rate: 25 EU proposals resulted in ten awards (40% funded),
 including three where the Unit is project coordinator.

 Provision and operation of specialist infrastructure and facilities
 The Unit retains a dedicated infrastructure coordinator (an academic) who liaises with and
 interacts closely with the University’s Academic Computing Team (ACT) which supports and
 advises staff and PGRs on IT infrastructure. Additionally, ACES advises the Department and the
 University with respect to internal HPC resources such as the Reading Academic Computing
 Cluster Service (RACC), which supports both departmental and wider University research
 activities. ACES group members also have leading responsibilities in the design, procurement

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and deployment of national supercomputers. Lawrence was a core member of the procurement
 team for both ARCHER and ARCHER2 and is the Director and Principal Investigator for the
 JASMIN supercomputer. Kunkel led the I/O benchmarking for Archer2. Maynard has a key role
 in setting requirements for Met Office supercomputing. The ACES engagement with JASMIN
 provides not only access to one of the world's largest data analysis facilities, CEDA, but also to a
 cloud environment that the ACES group use as a research testbed.

 The Unit provides a small cluster equipped with 15 nodes and various types of hardware (e.g.
 GPUs, ARM64 processors) and software stacks which facilitate a range of services, for instance,
 the hosting of virtual machines for research projects, or the evaluation of distributed and parallel
 algorithms before they are scaled on to national supercomputers. The infrastructure is
 accessible for research partners worldwide. We host regression test suites for popular software
 such as IOR (https://github.com/hpc/ior) and the IO-500 benchmark which is used by HPC
 experts worldwide to evaluate storage solutions and in procurements of supercomputers.
 Moreover, it enables us to integrate and evaluate bleeding-edge hardware and software
 solutions as part of research projects. A dedicated VR-laboratory provides various types of
 equipment such as Oculus Rifts and an immersive Cave Automatic Virtual Environment (CAVE).
 Finally, supported by ACT, we provide a dedicated Wi-Fi network that supports the secure
 evaluation of IoT devices and research network services.

 All services and equipment are available to all research students and staff providing an equal
 and fair environment to share IT resources. Diversity in the ability and personality of students is
 accommodated by allowing students to make progress at an individual schedule and
 by providing various means of accessing the different types of equipment. We acknowledge, in
 particular, that some students make best progress when working in their own environment which
 they consider safe and less stressful. Both goals are achieved by allowing students to borrow
 equipment for research projects and by providing 24/7 access to facilities and the various remote
 resources (hardware and software), regardless of the local operating system, enabled by central
 Digital Technologies Services (DTS).

 Investments in infrastructure and facilities
 With part-funding from research grants, we added a research cluster (£40k) in 2019 for research
 and teaching to staff and students in Computer Science. We also invested £103k to upgrade
 equipment across four PC laboratories (including a lab dedicated for MSc students) and created
 a new AI laboratory. At the start of their studies, each PhD candidate receives a laptop (giving
 them mobility) and is allocated a desk with a PC in a dedicated lab. All staff receive specialised
 DSE equipment where needed to enhance wellbeing.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations, networks and partnerships
 The Unit is involved in significant interdisciplinary collaboration, both within the University (e.g.
 with Meteorology and the Institute for Food Nutrition and Health) and with external partners
 worldwide (collaboration with >100 companies, e.g. BAE Systems, IDEMIA, Veridos). In many
 cases staff are directly involved in the coordination of large integrated European projects won
 through our strong leadership and responsiveness to EU priorities (e.g., PROTECT and
 CRITICAL-CHAINS). Such opportunities are the result of focused networking actions and
 partnership-building, e.g. Security Mission Information and Innovation Group (SMI2G) and
 SEREN network.

 The extent of collaboration is evidenced in our outputs. In the REF period we have produced 385
 international peer-reviewed research publications (with 43% journal articles), including almost
 one third (31.6%) of our REF2 Computer Science outputs in the top 10% most cited Computer
 Science publications worldwide, and almost two-thirds (63.2%) in the top 10% Computer
 Science journals indexed by CiteScore. Our interdisciplinary focus is reflected in the number of
 submitted outputs (~17% of total). Thirteen international patents have been granted which cite
 our outputs published in the REF period. The interdisciplinary focus extends to PGR training,

                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with consistently high numbers of students co-supervised with other disciplines (12.5% of the
 current cohort). Equally, we have extensive international collaborations with 61% of publications
 in the assessment period having international co-authors, increasing to 70% for REF2 outputs
 and corresponding field-weighted citation impact score of 2.19. Our strong industrial
 partnerships drive us to translate research to software solutions and win awards, e.g. Hong’s
 KTP with Optimal Monitoring on use of energy monitoring using machine learning earned the
 2019 Wright Commission Award voted by the Retail Energy Forum.

 Working with end users: developing impact from our research
 We establish industry needs through industry approaches via the KTP (with six KTPs awarded
 during the assessment period and an Innovate UK KTN prize for innovation excellence) and
 through our Industrial Advisory Board (members include Eli Lilly, IBM, Microsoft, Nationwide,
 NVIDIA, Oracle, Sony). As well as building on existing partnerships, a key aim has been to forge
 new relationships, particularly in the Thames Valley. Achievements include:
     1) A new data science certification programme developed in partnership with KNIME which
         directly benefitted us through sponsorship of €25k software licenses for researchers
         including Master’s and PhD students.
     2) Launch by NVIDIA of a new technology centre to advance AI across the UK (in
         partnership with the Unit, EPCC and Hartree Centre). Our contribution is on deep
         learning methods to enhance simulation workflows in weather and climate.
     3) In 2019, we set up the Thames Valley AI Hub in conjunction with the University’s Henley
         Business School, to connect our large and thriving local AI community and accelerate
         research take-up. Business support services and funders have signed up and a varied
         programme of events has brought the community together to facilitate new connections
         and build collaboration. These events showcase state-of-the-art research developments
         and create valuable ‘collision space’. The Hub, overseen by a steering committee with
         senior membership from the Local Enterprise Partnership, Microsoft, Oracle and Reading
         Borough Council, has over 400 Linked-In followers (70% manager or more senior role)
         and over 100 regularly sign up for events. A direct outcome of the community
         engagement through the Hub was the award of a Royal Society Industrial Fellowship to
         Stahl.
     4) The success of the partnership between the Royal Berkshire Hospital and the University
         is evidenced by an approach by a Hospital partner seeking expertise in AI which led to a
         collaborative proposal, to develop an AI decision-support system for thyroid nodules
         diagnosis, being submitted to the EPSRC (Liang).
     5) We have engaged with >30 end users/practitioners in our EU-funded projects (including
         the UK Home Office, Public Health England, Ministry of the Interior (Finland), Fraport,
         Milan metro, Foinikas shipping company). This has led to consortia and interdisciplinary
         funding bids and ongoing engagement with users during project execution.

 Wider societal contributions: creating impact locally, nationally and internationally
 Our wider research activity has attained significant societal impact beyond the examples detailed
 in our impact case studies. Short-term impact is exemplified by:
     • Badii’s Innovate UK work on Privacy-Preserving Speech Processing (PPSP)-in-Cloud
         (with industry partner Intelligent Voice), which has enabled the company to enhance their
         speech transcription product, create multiple revenue streams and have patents granted
         within the REF period.
     • Ojha’s KTP with Optimal Monitoring Ltd. on EMMA AI led to development of the world’s
         most advanced energy monitoring system, a 6-month pilot at 48 locations in the BetFred
         estate, which in turn identified energy savings of £140k p.a., with subsequent full rollout.

 The Unit has further achieved continuing impacts, for example Badii’s research on development
 of security and context management in middleware for networked embedded systems in HYDRA
 led to the LinkSmart® open source IoT platform and resulting improved energy management
 and control in existing (even historical) buildings, and creation of interactive energy awareness
 apps for the general public. The digital toolkit developed by Liang to enhance communication of
 scientific health claims (EIT FOOD) has ~900 international public users.

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Outreach and public engagement
 We are committed to communicating and engaging with public audiences, including media work,
 supported by the University’s Press Office (e.g. Ferryman: BBC News,~500,000 views, Sky
 News), and other engagement opportunities (e.g. the European Commission’s Science is
 Wonderful 2019; multiple public talks, e.g. to IET-EC3 and Thames Valley AI meet-ups (Ojha, Di
 Fatta) and a BCS Women public lecture on An Introduction to Data Mining and Predictive
 Analytics (Stahl). Ferryman has taken part in two Civil Service World briefings on biometrics in
 practice and borders of the future. We have produced videos for a range of our projects
 (including EFFISEC, FASTPASS, PROTECT, ARENA and IPATCH) to enhance public
 understanding of our work. Di Fatta led a discussion on Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning
 and Data Science at the Henley Business School’s World of Work Conference for business
 leaders.

 Leadership and contribution to the research base
 Our contributions to the discipline and research base are evidenced by a range of high-profile
 activities, including:
     • Invited talks: ~20 keynote and plenary presentations (e.g. IDCS2014, ESA BiDS2014,
          IJCB2017, IEEE Cluster 2018, CAIP2019) and >80 further invited talks in international
          meetings, conferences, seminar series and with industry.
     • Conferences, workshops and other events: Staff have had leading roles in >70
          international events including ~10 Conference Chairs/Co-Chairs, e.g. IEEE ICDM, IDCS.
          Panels: e.g. CPDP2015, SRE2018, CSW18, Festival of Identity 2020, AVSS2019
          (Ferryman); MultiCore 9 (Maynard).
     • Awards and prizes: e.g. Leptoukh Lecture for significant contributions to informatics,
          computational, or data sciences (Leptoukh, 2014); Best paper 9th IDCS2016 (Di Fatta);
          Best papers at AI2016 and ICONIP2019 (Hong).

 Advisory and steering boards: ~5 of our academics, including:
    • Lawrence: Chair CEDA/JASMIN governance board; Scientific Advisory Board for
        Barcelona Supercomputer Centre since 2017; Chair of Advisory Panel for Computational
        and Information Systems Laboratory (CISL) at US National Centre for Atmospheric
        Research from 2019.
    • Kunkel: Founder of HPC-Certification Forum and Virtual Institute of IO (vi4io.org),
        Founder and steering board of IO500 benchmark (io500.org).

 Editorial boards/roles
     • Board members for e.g. Neurocomputing, Scientific Data
     • Editor of IEEE Trans. Syst. Man & Cyb (Nicosia); Guest editors of: Sensors J.; Expert
         Systems J.; Expert Update J. (BCS SGAI); J. of Network and Computer Applications; J.
         Systems Science; European Network for Earth System Modelling (ENES).

 Membership of research council or other national/international committees, including:
   • Badii, Di Fatta: EPSRC College Members
   • Ferryman: EC ERNCIP committee, NPCC CCTV committee
   • Lawrence: EPSRC infrastructure SAT; Chair NERC HPC Strategy Committee; Deputy
      Chair NERC Information Strategy Group (2008-2017); Member WMO's WGCM
      Information Panel (2014-2019); Member of the NetCDF/Climate-Forecast Conventions
      Governance committee (2015-present)
   • Kunkel: committee member BCS Open Source Specialist Group
   • Stahl, Di Fatta: BCS Specialist Group for Artificial Intelligence (SGAI) committee.

 Refereeing of external academic publications/research proposals/institutions:



                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   For ~40 journals (e.g. IEEE TPDS, Future Generation Computer Systems, IEEE Big
        Data, Sensors) and ~20 conferences (e.g. ICCV, ECCV, CVPR, ACCV, BMVC, IJCB,
        AVSS) by twelve staff
    •   For proposals: e.g. EPSRC, BBSRC, MRC, Norwegian Research Council, European
        Commission, Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada,
        Department of Energy (US)
    •   For institutions: e.g. Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT, Germany), Totalforsvarets
        Forskningsinstitut (FOI, Sweden), German Climate Computing Centre.

 Contribution to standardisation / benchmarking activities (e.g. ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 37 (see
 REF3b), cfconventions, IO500, CADDementia Grand Challenge).




                                                                                            Page 15
