Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: 10007140 Birmingham City University

 Unit of Assessment: 21: Sociology
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

   a) Overview

 Sociology is a burgeoning area of excellence for the Birmingham City University (BCU) which
 has a 175-year heritage of educating students in a wide variety of disciplines. Though submitting
 for the first time, our UoA 21 submission consists of 14 staff (14 FTE) who have significant
 responsibility for research (SRR) amongst a total of 21 staff members and 10 PhD students. Our
 staff helped secure nearly £3 million of research funding in total and produced over 100 outputs.
 The Unit is centred in the Department of Criminology and Sociology, situated in the School of
 Social Sciences within in the Faculty for Business, Law and Social Sciences (BLSS). Following
 the creation of BLSS in 2014, and an increase in focus on research, we implemented an
 effective and inclusive research strategy that led to significant developments in key areas of
 Black studies, cultural studies, educational sociology and political sociology. With a strong
 emphasis on equality and diversity the internationally esteemed research produced by the unit
 was strategically organised within the Centre for Critical Social Research (CCSR). The Centre
 provided an interdisciplinary space for social researchers from the Department of Criminology
 and Sociology, the Business School and the Faculty of Health, Education and Life Sciences
 (HELS).

   b) Context and Structure

 In 2014/5, BCU made a strategic decision to invest substantially in BLSS and the Faculty, in
 turn, invested in the development of the Department of Criminology and Sociology in order to
 establish a high-performing team that produces excellent sociological research which could be
 fed into research-led teaching and that would be a hub for all sociological research taking place
 across the University. This required investment in new staff, a new research centre, and new
 programmes as well as improving the opportunities available to researchers in order to expand
 their abilities to publish and attract research and enterprise funding.

 One aspect of our strategy was creating a new research centre that facilitated the collaboration
 of colleagues engaging in sociological research within the Faculty and across the University. We
 created CCSR and initiated recruitment and development of talented staff; we then incorporated
 members of the existing Social Research and Evaluation Unit (SREU) into the Centre while
 enabling them to maintain their organizational entity.

 SREU was formed in 2012 but has its roots in the Centre for Research into Quality established
 at the University in the late 1980s. SREU focuses on two key research areas: quality in higher
 education and vulnerable people. The team published widely on aspects of quality assurance
 and quality improvement processes in higher education. Over the course of many years,
 members of SREU were involved in advising higher education institutions on managing student
 feedback processes. Since its inception, SREU has also been involved in a wide range of
 projects that explore policy and practice relating to the most vulnerable groups in our society
 including prisoners, victims of domestic violence, and people suffering health conditions. SREU,
 under the directorship of Professor MacDonald, has led several large-scale EU projects detailed
 in Section 3. Professor MacDonald is an acknowledged expert in the fields of prisoner health,
 domestic violence, drugs and related health issues.

 CCSR, formed in 2015, was a product of the wider Faculty strategy for improving and increasing
 research. The Centre sought to produce research that is “both critical in nature and urgency” and
 that would impact “a range of publics locally, nationally, and internationally” across key areas of
 Black Studies, Cultural Studies, Higher Education and Political Sociology. In total, 27 people
 were part of the Centre between 2015 and 2020, including members from other Faculties (see


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Section 2). As discussed in Section 1c below, in 2020, the three centres of the school separated
 by subject were replaced five interdisciplinary centres.

 Centre Structure
 The strategy behind CCSR was to facilitate a research environment that would enhance
 engagement, promote the development of research skills, and further research culture in a
 university that is largely teaching focused. Within that context, the investment in sociology
 sought to create a department that was able to compete nationally in terms of research. CCSR
 was also developed in such a way as to maximise the potential of all staff and enable the
 development of research leadership. CCSR operated with a management structure of one
 Director (Andrews), one Deputy Director (Nulman), and four cluster leads. The clusters – in
 alphabetical order – were Black Studies; Cultural Sociology; Higher Education and Society; and
 Policy, Activism and Politics. These clusters formed around strategic staffing and expansion of
 key areas of both research and teaching interests at the Faculty level. These clusters had their
 own mission statements which helped drive their internal strategy.

 The Black Studies cluster concentrated on an “interdisciplinary subject rooted in the experiences
 of African diasporic communities and in a commitment to improving the conditions faced by
 these communities on a local, national and global scale. [Black Studies] is an emerging
 discipline in the UK which the CCSR was at the forefront of developing”. The specific topic areas
 of research for the cluster were black organisations and the voluntary sector; black politics;
 racism and resistance in education; the representation of black women in the media; oral
 histories of local communities; and others.

 The Cultural Sociology cluster centred on the empirical and theoretical study of a broad range of
 areas of culture and cultural forms, with particular reference to popular culture. It sought to
 produce high quality, critical, and collaborative work in the field of cultural sociology. It focused
 on the specific topics of culture, identity and inequality; the production and consumption of
 culture; the politics (and impact) of cultural representation; and others.

 The Higher Education and Society cluster was concerned with the ways in which the higher
 education community interacts with, affects, and is affected by the society around it. Much of the
 work the cluster engaged with was designed to make an impact on society both through
 research and teaching. The cluster’s approach to research was methodologically pluralistic and
 interdisciplinary and engaged with key debates such as quality management, student
 experience, widening participation, the ethical graduate, and the internationalisation of HE.

 The Policy, Activism, and Politics cluster specialised in cross-national and comparative social
 policy and politics, as well as grassroots interventions in politics and policy in the form of social
 movements from a sociological perspective. The cluster’s aims were to develop research that
 furthers the understanding of inequalities within society in the efforts to: alleviate social
 problems; investigate and research contemporary socio-political contexts with the aim to
 influence policy change and future social policy; promote partnership with the local community
 and build upon established relationships; and build links with other universities and networks in
 the UK, EU, and internationally in pursuit of the other aims.

 Given the research expertise held in Sociology regarding Black Studies, one of the new
 undergraduate programmes established was Europe’s first undergraduate Black Studies
 programme which challenges the Eurocentric curriculum by recognising Black perspectives and
 embeds the teaching of empire and colonialism and its impact on Africa and the African
 diaspora. Since then the University has developed the BA Honours programme in Black Studies
 in Criminal Justice and a future Master of Arts in Black Studies.

   c) Research and Impact Strategy

 BCU expanded its efforts at engaging in research and growing its research capacities in a
 context where that was previously lacking. Despite being a teaching focused university, BCU

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 has placed strategic emphasis on expanding and promoting its research environment in the
 REF2014 period. The University and Faculty strategy toward research has changed drastically
 since that time. Faculty Research Committees (FRCs) implemented new, localized strategies for
 accelerating research output, quality and funding, setting a clear steer for developing high quality
 research activity in all subject areas.

 As of January 2015, the target for UoA21 was to return 10 staff with an output pool of at least 35
 publications. With additional recruitment and mobilization around these targets, it soon became
 clear that they would be surpassed. The target later shifted to 12 staff and 40 outputs. With the
 unit’s staff FTE at 14 the target has been surpassed. Based on present staff levels across the
 Faculty with significant responsibility for research, UoA21 represents 14 of 93, or approximately
 15%. The initial output target has also been substantially exceeded. For REF2021, the unit had
 101 outputs.

 In March 2015, annual research and enterprise income targets were determined for each
 academic year up to 2019/20. The target across the Faculty was £400,000 in academic year
 2015/16, with a gradual increase leading to an annual BLSS target of £1.3 million starting in
 2017/18 and carrying on at this level until 2019/2020. Sociology’s target represented 15% of the
 Faculty total. In total, UoA’s pro rata research and enterprise income target from 2015/16 to
 2019/20 was £765,000. To assist in achieving these targets, the School appointed a Director of
 Research (Mavritsaki) in 2016. As discussed in Section 3, the total value of project secured by
 UoA21 staff members including BCU-led or partner-led research funding, was nearly £3 million
 (£2.95 million). Of this, over £700,000 of research income came to BCU.

 Future Goals
 Targets up to 2024/25 have been made for the Department of Criminology and Sociology
 regarding Research and enterprise income and student research; regarding research income,
 the Department level target is set at £707,000 between 2020-2025. The Department’s 20/21 to
 24/25 target for number of students undertaking a PhD is set at 39. Targets were also set for UG
 and PG student take-up of opportunities to get involved in research and an increase in post-docs
 or research assistant posts.

 To achieve these targets, a new strategic plan known as Excellence with Impact was developed
 in the School of Social Sciences and is in the process of being fully implemented. The plan
 focused on better integration and coordination of research across the departments of
 Criminology and Sociology and Psychology. This strategic coordination is being facilitated
 through the creation of five cross-disciplinary research centres across the school: (1) Identities
 and Inequalities, (2) Crime and Society, (3) Security and Extremism, (4) Health and Wellbeing,
 and (5) Lifespan and Behavioural Science. A majority of those in UoA21 are based in the
 Identities and Inequalities centre.

 The strategy has also improved and expanded partnerships working through knowledge
 exchange programmes and a rooted focus on research for Birmingham, in line with the
 University’s motto. The new strategic vision is for “Birmingham City University to be a recognised
 international centre leading on and facilitating excellent and impactful research, innovation and
 scholarship in the social sciences”. Its mission is to ensure that “The School of Social Science
 engages with all its partners to build an environment that develops creative solutions to
 contemporary local and global challenges.” A new School Research and Development
 Committee has also been established to support the School Research Strategy. The Committee
 reviews progress of the School against outcomes, identifies and allocates opportunities for grant
 capture, focuses on challenges in reaching targets, and reports on pipeline activity and current
 projects. To achieve the objectives, the School-level strategy has begun to implement three
 strategic initiatives: Birmingham 2029 (B29), the Social Sciences Data Lab, and Research
 Realism. These initiatives target areas of research excellence regarding outputs, impact and
 collaboration (see Section 2).



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Equality and diversity

 Sociology at BCU has placed equality and diversity at the forefront of the strategy in the process
 of hiring and staff development. The UoA’s research focus on race, identity, and Black Studies
 has served as a constant reminder of the inequalities particularly when it comes to race and
 ethnicity. It has led to a widely accepted appreciation of the importance of ensuring equal
 employment and development processes within Sociology. As successful outcome of the
 underpinning approach to equality and diversity, BCU’s proportion of BAME academics among
 the Sociology staff is one of the highest in the country. Seven of 18 permanent staff in the unit
 are BAME. Of the staff with SRR, nearly half are BAME. Of Professors in the unit, 3 out of 4 are
 BAME. The racial and ethnic makeup of staff is reflective of our student body, helping to ensure
 equality in teaching as well as research. The gender breakdown was similar across both SRR
 and total staff and at two of the four Professors in the unit are women. All staff with disabilities
 were included in our submission further demonstrating the framework of fairness that
 underpinned the submission.

 Equality and diversity are central to the University’s values and centrally there have been a
 number of important changes that have occurred in order to ensure equality across a range of
 factors concerning employment and working conditions for academics and promote diversity. To
 this end, the School of Social Sciences has a Bronze ‘Departmental’ Award for Athena SWAN
 and BCU’s Athena SWAN Project Manager is a member of the Sociology unit of assessment.
 BCU also holds an institutional Bronze Award for Athena SWAN. To further our success in this
 area, the Athena SWAN lead for the School assessed the areas of improvement and is
 developing an action plan that includes mandatory training for line managers to challenge and
 report discrimination on behalf of staff; a co-chairing scheme that rotates a female and male
 chair for all decision-making meetings to enable gender-balanced leadership growth; and
 determining whether there is an imbalance in pastoral care and outreach responsibilities for
 female staff and if so to adjust this using the Workload Allocation Model.

 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Staff recruitment was made fair through a series of mechanisms utilized by the University. These
 included the anonymisation of applications, anonymized shortlisting procedures, and clearly
 established criteria for recruitment. In addition, we had similar procedures on a departmental
 level regarding research responsibilities and roles. In addition to nurturing and supporting
 existing junior staff to develop their research capabilities, considerable attention was paid to
 recruiting new staff with a track record of successful research, high quality publications, and
 promising future research plans. Recruitment also enabled Sociology to add to or expand prior
 areas of research excellence and fit the University’s values.

 Sociology strategically singled-out key areas of research strength and recruited staff in those
 areas. These strengths were reflected in the clusters for the Centre for Critical Social Research,
 particularly Black Studies; Cultural Sociology; Policy, Activism, and Politics. Investments in these
 areas were substantial and, between 2014 and the census date, 14 new SRR staff were
 appointed - though some have since left to join departments in other universities. Since the
 census date, an additional two research-active staff members were appointed on permanent
 contracts and two more appointments have been scheduled.

 The Black Studies cluster was formed after the appointment of Dr Kehinde Andrews who has
 since become Professor of Black Studies. His work and efforts in the development of the cluster
 provided even greater strategic incentive to develop it further. Dr Denise Noble, Dr Lisa Palmer,
 and Dr Karen Wilkes were then hired to expand the work within this cluster to include a black
 feminist research focus. After the census date, Dr Tony Talburt brought a socio-historical
 research background to the Black Studies team. Dr Arantza Gomez Arana, with her focus on the
 social impact of EU policies, and Dr Eugene Nulman, with his work on social movements,

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 alternated responsibility for leading the Policy, Activism, and Politics cluster from its inception. Dr
 John Narayan was strategically appointed to deepen the focus on activism, to intersect with the
 Black Studies cluster, and to expand on the work of political sociology. Since the census date,
 Dr Sam Burgum has been appointed to expand interests in social movement research with his
 focus on urban movements. The Cultural Sociology cluster was led by Dr Gary Hazeldine. Dr
 Nazia Hussein was strategically appointed for the Cultural Sociology cluster with her work on
 ‘New women’ and their representations and Dr Nathan Kerrigan was appointed to broaden the
 cluster’s emphasis to include the rural. In 2019 Zaki Nahaboo was also strategically hired in this
 area.

 This mix of developing the skills of our junior research staff, and recruiting exceptional talent
 enabled Sociology’s research ambitions to be realised. By the census date the number of SRR
 staff grew to 14 and a pool of over 100 outputs, showing the success of this strategic approach
 to enabling academics to realise their potential. Our strategic approach ensured that staff were
 provided with time, support, training, and internal funding opportunities for conducting high
 quality research as discussed in detail below. New staff were expected to publish and or develop
 research bids for external funding and this is facilitated throughout the Centre, School, Faculty
 and University research structures discussed above.

 Research Grant Development and Support

 One objective of the University and Faculty was to increase the number and quality of research
 bids to grow externally funded and self-supported activity. We achieved this objective by
 implementing a multi-layered strategy addressing structural inefficiencies with managing
 research funding applications (discussed in Section 3) and improving staff support to generate
 such applications. Regarding supporting staff in applying and obtaining for research funding, the
 Faculty made changes in three key areas: provision of seed funding; development of research
 competence; and facilitation of research and collaboration opportunities (see Section 4).

 At the University level, the establishment of the Research, Innovation, Enterprise & Employability
 (RIEE) professional services department enabled oversight and management of all pre-award
 and post-award activities for externally funded projects through the Research and Innovation
 Gateway (RIG) team. At the Faculty level, seed funding was provided in several ways in order to
 facilitate and encourage research outputs and the development of grant application writing.
 Starting in 2015, Small Development Grants (SDGs) provided seed funding for research,
 enabling staff to apply for internal income of up to £1,000 to support pilot projects with an
 expectation that the recipient would then apply for external funding. Between 2015 and 2019, the
 Faculty allocated over £70,000 pounds in grant funding through SDGs across the three Schools
 in the Faculty. The Department received £14,000 in SDG funding in that period, helping 12
 different researchers develop research projects.

 In addition, funds for cross-faculty collaboration between BLSS and HELS was established to
 promote interdisciplinary research and an equipment and resources grant was introduced to
 support the purchase of specialist equipment required to conduct research on new or existing
 projects. The Faculty provided information and generated confidence among staff for applying
 for research grants through a series of training sessions on grant writing that was based on the
 identification of needs at the cluster level and integrated into the wider staff development
 initiative. The Faculty also developed a Community of Practise for Grant Writing: a series of
 meetings of researchers that are involved in developing bids. These meetings are comprised of
 experienced and non-experienced researchers who provide peer support to aid the development
 of grant proposals. The sessions have a specific theme drawn from staff suggestions and link
 back to training that is provided at the Faculty level. The School of Social Sciences also
 introduced a grant mentoring scheme where senior academics assisted early career researchers
 and those new to grant writing in a peer-review and training process for proposals. In addition,
 the Faculty created a Masterclass series that included general information regarding grant
 writing as well as more detailed information for specific grants the Faculty was targeting.


                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Furthermore, CCSR was crucial in developing a strong research environment that helped to
 inspire, motivate, and strengthen the research efforts of its members by facilitating impact
 discussions, providing support for developing and writing research grants, providing updates on
 funding applications, as well as providing a space for collaboration on new projects. As
 demonstrated in Section 3, the unit was successful in securing relatively large research grants
 for such a newly established area of research for the University.

 At the School level, part of the future strategy will be a new initiative brought in to formalise
 mentorship by allocating emerging researchers at least one external academic mentor to
 challenge and support individuals submitting competitive bids for research funding and with
 reviews and comments on proposals to improve content and quality. These mentors will come
 from strategic partnerships with universities who are ranked in the top 500 global universities
 and share a similar ethos to BCU. The mentors are to be selected based on their success and
 sustained record of securing research grants from a variety of sources and fit into BCU values
 as well as the School Vision and Mission.

 Support with Research Outputs

 Different levels of the University support research in different ways. The raft of measures
 discussed below resulted in researchers in the UoA publishing 12 monographs, 52 journal
 articles, 31 book chapters, 2 edited books, and 4 reports over the REF period.

 As a whole BCU has improved its system for determining and allocating research hours to
 ensure that research-active staff are able to undertake research activities within their workload.
 Research time allocation is a ring-fenced entitlement recognised through the Work Allocation
 Model (WAM). Additional time is allocated to externally funded research or knowledge exchange
 projects, or for pilot project awarding funding or sabbaticals. This model protects research time
 as a departmental priority. The Director of Research in the School of Social Sciences, in liaison
 with the Head of Department and Research Directors monitor this process to ensure that all
 allocations are transparent and form part of the their Individual Performance Review (IPR): a
 regularly scheduled discussion between staff and their line managers that forms part of the
 University Performance Management Policy.

 In addition to the research time allocated to staff with SRR, emergent researchers (ERs) –
 academics without SRR – are usually staff who are completing or have recently completed
 doctoral study. ERs are allocated the standard 180 hours Scholarly Activity Allowance (SAA) to
 undertake activity that contributes to their professional or practice field which underpins their
 teaching and supports their professional and academic learning. An additional 162 hours
 (0.1FTE) may be allocated in the WAM to support completion of a part-time doctoral programme
 (a maximum of seven years study as per University regulations). On successful completion of a
 doctorate, a post-doc allocation of 162 hours can be negotiated (0.1FTE) to support early
 publication development towards becoming an independent researcher with SRR.

 The Faculty also launched a transformed sabbatical scheme which allowed research active staff
 to apply for research leave for an extended but finite period where staff would be excluded from
 their usual roles and responsibilities in order to focus on a specific activity or outcome explicitly
 aligned with Faculty priorities, usually leading to one or more high quality outputs. Sabbaticals
 were available to all Sociology staff, ranging from one month to a full semester. The protection of
 research time is coupled with research objectives in annual reviews and expectation of roles.
 The University, and BLSS in particular, are promoting a research-led teaching initiative that
 seeks to ensure research is informing the curriculum and teaching approaches by assessing this
 at course approval stage. This is coupled with the Faculty’s desire to develop a more flexible
 curriculum that supports developing research portfolios of staff and centres and creates an
 exciting, cutting edge student learning experience.

 To further support research, the Faculty created the Volunteer Research Assistantship (VRA)
 scheme. The VRA scheme is a Faculty-wide initiative to facilitate and encourage engagement

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with research by providing an opportunity for UG students to get hands-on experience with
 research by supporting research projects. The scheme, initially piloted in the School of Social
 Sciences, provides students with research awareness and with an opportunity to consider
 pursuing a research degree in the future but also supported staff research projects that would
 have otherwise been difficult to accomplish. For example, volunteer research assistants’ duties
 include conducting literature reviews for new projects, collating information to inform grant
 applications or helping to run pilot studies. Staff members create small research projects that are
 advertised to students who can apply via a competitive process. The successful students are
 then assigned to a project and work closely with a member of staff for a five-week period on the
 research project. This work provides students with a wide range of research experiences,
 including literature review and synthesis, writing ethics proposals, data collection, analysis and
 verbal presentation skills. The Student Researchers scheme expands on VRA by enabling
 students with research experience to be hired as part of funded research projects. This supports
 student development while accelerating the process of attracting research assistants to funded
 projects, helping to ensure the project’s successful completion in a timely fashion.

 The Faculty provided a system of internal and external evaluation and support across outputs,
 impact, and funding which also strengthened research networks. BLSS also provides specific
 Masterclasses focused on research and writing to assist staff and organised and funded writing
 retreats which took place at the Woodbrooke Study Centre. This was paired with the CCSR’s
 own digital writing retreats where staff members could feel part of a community of researchers
 engaged in writing together and motivating each other. The digital writing retreat was facilitated
 by dynamic software which also served as another place for research communication across
 CCSR members regarding grants and funding, impact, and research support. The research
 centre assisted with submission and acceptance of publications of journal articles, book
 chapters, and books from the initial stage of publication idea and recommendations for
 publishers, to reviewing and commenting on drafts of publications.

 Support with Research Impact

 The Faculty established an impact strategy group supported by a cross University team of
 Impact Officers. This team created systems of tracking and storing information regarding impact
 and the Faculty engaged in seminars and training programmes to develop knowledge around
 impact. Impact plans also became an important factor in developing internal and external
 research bids as well as PhD bursaries.

 In a move to provide opportunities for staff to begin disseminating research in order to develop
 impact, the University established RESCON, an annual internal research conference designed
 to support and promote the research of junior academics at the University. Each year’s
 conference is themed to provide a focus on new outstanding research across the University and
 aims to build confidence and enable early career and postgraduate researchers, who are
 expected to attend and participate, to gain presenting experience.

 At the school level, the Social Sciences Data Lab was developed as an ‘impact hub’ that helps
 organisations make sense of data to improve policy and practice, locally and globally. The
 project seeks to address the use of data and work with organisations and individuals in the
 private and public sectors to maximise opportunities to increase return on investment on a new
 commercial development, or for public sector organisations to refine policy interventions for
 targeted groups. The BCU Social Sciences Data Lab is underpinned by core funding but also
 has a consultancy stream to support cost recovery. The project harnesses opportunities to
 engage with other BCU initiatives such as STEAMhouse.

 Each cluster in CCSR also had a distinct impact strategy that was in line with Faculty objectives
 and targets. These strategies were driven by cluster leads and overseen by the Centre Director
 and Deputy Director who assisted throughout the process. Potential impact case studies rooted
 in underlying research were drawn out of these clusters and assessed and evaluated by the


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Centre Director and Deputy Director, as well as the wider School and Faculty research
 managers and administrators.

 In addition, Research Realism is a recent initiative developed in the School of Social Sciences
 that focuses on building and developing partnerships with people and organisations to resolve
 common and shared problems. It promotes practical research by using our expertise and
 excellence to improve the lives of people locally and globally. The framework recognises that
 research needs to be done in partnership with external organisations which will lead to focussed
 solutions that have lasting and demonstrable impact. Such an approach was also coupled with
 Birmingham 2029 which was developed to improve the School’s performance across income
 generation, impact, outputs and collaboration.

 Birmingham 2029
 At the School level, the B29 initiative enables additional support of research development
 through support and seed funding. B29 is the School of Social Sciences community-university
 engagement programme which aims to respond to the social, political and economic challenges
 faced by residents of the city.

 B29 has connected internally and externally with a range of stakeholders and has positioned
 itself to undertake impactful, co-produced research and community engagement through
 partnership development and internal pathway grants, with a strategy that will enable the
 findings to be disseminated. The programme focuses on three core activities: internal promotion
 and engagement, external connections and partnership building, and strategic partnership.

 B29 introduced a Pathway Grants programme for Social Sciences academic staff to apply for a
 research grants of £3,000 to co-produce, develop, or strengthen an existing partnership with
 local voluntary and community organisations. The Pathway Grant aimed to connect our staff with
 communities and jointly undertake an achievable project. Seven grants were made and had
 started. From March 2020 to the end of July 2020 all projects had been suspended due to
 COVID-19 lockdown.

 B29 has built community and voluntary sector relationships and partnerships with local
 organisation including the New Biggin Community Trust in Handsworth, Birmingham and Legacy
 WM in Lozells, Birmingham. This has initiated co-produced community research, training, and
 capacity building for local people as community researchers and has attracted BCU students as
 volunteer researchers. In addition, B29 has made links with the Royal Society of Arts to convene
 a joint event exploring the role and benefits of a publicly engaged university.

 In July 2020, Birmingham City Council commissioned B29 to undertake a 12-month community
 engagement project in East Birmingham, a large area under-going regeneration. The project is
 worth £114,000 and represents a significant partnership to develop an anchor place-based
 project. B29 also commissioned Birmingham Voluntary Services Council to provide an insight
 report on responses to COVID-19 and the learning for future community-university engagement.

 Additionally, B29 also offered 5 fully funded PhDs across the School, two of which are in the
 Department for Criminology and Sociology. B29 has also partnered with Policy Press / Bristol
 University Press which provides a pipeline for data to be published as monographs as well as
 peer review journal articles.

 PGR Students and PhD Support

 When PhD students register, they are linked to one or more of the School’s research centres. As
 with staff, PGRs may belong to multiple centres, reflecting the diversity of expertise and
 collaborative spirit of the School. Funded students receive a fee waiver and monthly stipend
 reflecting RCUK rates during their studies. PGRs are also able to take up to 6 hours a week of
 paid teaching work related to their emerging expertise and area of study, an opportunity which
 enables them to develop their understanding of the relationship between research and teaching.

                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 We consider students as co-creators of knowledge and this principle applies to all our students,
 starting from undergraduate students all the way to the PhD students. The latter are included in
 all research initiatives available to staff, including research centre membership, research
 development workshops and relevant funding calls. As such, PGRs have opportunities for
 involvement in bid writing, ongoing research projects, research dissemination, conference
 organisation and attendance at national and international conferences. At the School level, PhD
 students are included in a Community of Practice for PhD Research programme, peer
 mentoring, research seminar presentation opportunities, and are invited to attend other School
 level initiatives such as the Community of Practice for Grant Writing. These programmes benefit
 our PhD students to develop into academics in the future.

 During the REF period, the Department invested in appointing new staff and developing existing
 colleagues including PGR students, some of whom are now members of staff. Across the
 Department, there are 9 staff members who had been PGR students at BCU. This reflects our
 sustainable approach to building a friendly and supportive research community, which is
 evidenced in our recruitment and promotions since 2014.

 Our unit had one PhD completions during the REF period and a further 10 currently undertaking
 PhDs with one near completion and two in their final year. Although the numbers are small, this
 is a significant growth for a burgeoning unit. PhDs have up to three supervisors to provide them
 with additional mentoring and support throughout the PhD process. The supervision team must
 include at least two completions to ensure knowledgeable experience in supervising to
 completion is present. PGR supervisors are provided with training to strengthen their
 competency in PGR supervision. All supervisors are provided with a training course at the
 beginning of each academic year. The University runs a Staff and Educational Development
 Association (SEDA) accredited professional development programme entitled Community of
 Practice around Research Supervision. The Community of Practice provides peer support and
 guidance through the supervision process as well as sharing the best practice methods for PhD
 supervision. This Community of Practice consists of workshops, which take the form of
 conversations in which participants share experiences and explore different strategies and
 approaches to PhD supervision. The program scaffolds supervisory practice with an
 understanding of the theory, available resources, and commonly experienced challenges within
 supervision.

 The Doctoral Research College (DRC) is a professional service based within RIEE that functions
 as a point of contact and communication for all PGRs, providing support for applications,
 admissions, enrolment, induction, progression monitoring, examination and award to all PGRs.
 Applications for PhD study are made via the DRC and are subsequently reviewed by Sociology
 staff with relevant expertise and the capacity to provide research supervision. Applicants are
 invited to interviews where they discuss their proposed project and allow potential supervisors to
 assess the interviewees’ suitability for postgraduate research study. Offers are issued via the
 DRC, who assist students and supervisors with the applications, admissions, and enrolment
 process. Additional support is provided at the Faculty level by the Faculty Research Degrees
 and Environment Committee (FRDEC) which reports to the Faculty Research Committee and at
 the University level by the University Research Environment and Training Committee (URETC).
 URETC reports to the University Research Committee (URC).

 PhD students are supported through the Postgraduate Certificate in Research Practice. All new
 research degree students are expected to attend and complete the Postgraduate Certificate in
 Research Practice during the first year of their PhD. The programme informs students about the
 journey of the PhD and trains them in fundamental research skills by providing the students with
 support and guidance to help the production of knowledge and impactful, far-reaching research.
 The programme is taught during the first six months of the PhD and it complements the
 traditional practice of research degree supervision.



                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Another course open to all PGR students is the Learning and Teaching for Postgraduate
 Researchers course. The course is SEDA accredited and introduces philosophies, techniques,
 and values that underpin learning and teaching. It equips PGR students with knowledge and
 skills to facilitate and support learning in a variety of situations, providing them with knowledge
 about a future in academia. On completion of the course, students are awarded a nationally
 recognised certificate in Learning and Teaching for Postgraduate Researchers. There is
 additional PhD peer mentorship where Senior PhDs students (in their third year of study and
 beyond) can take part in a mentoring scheme, through which they provide support and advice to
 first and second-year PhD colleagues. The strategic income support provided for staff for
 conference support is also extended to PGR students. Since 2015/16, nearly £10,000 has been
 invested in PGR students for funding conference and workshop participation.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The University, Faculty, School and Department have worked to enable income-generating
 research, enterprise, and knowledge exchange. Through the funding of pilot projects, research
 officers and trainings, and the promotion of collaborations (see Section 4), members from the
 UoA has been able to engage in significant levels of income generation.

 The UoA’s members were able to secure a total of over £2.95 million in research grant funding
 across projects led by BCU or partner institutions during the REF period, of which over £700,000
 came to BCU. Members of the unit also obtained funding from consultancy and conferences,
 totalling over £156,000 in income, of which over £75,000 was income brought into BCU. Some
 of our largest projects include the Families: Social Exclusion and Places of Safety project; the
 Learning and Teaching Space in Higher Education project, and the Enabling Mental Health
 Benefits project.

 Professor MacDonald led the European Union funded Families: Social Exclusion and Places of
 Safety (FSEPS) project with industry and university partners in the UK, Bulgaria, Spain, Italy
 Romania and Austria. The FSEPS project developed a programme of activities that actively
 supported mothers who live with their children in refuges or other places of safety. The project’s
 aims were to combat social exclusion, aid recovery from abuse, and facilitate stable sustainable
 family relationships by providing learning and therapeutic activities, supported free play,
 educational trips, and communal food activities to create positive memories for families living in
 refuges or other places of safety. The project was awarded over €425,000 by the European
 Commission.

 James Williams led the Learning and Teaching Space in Higher Education, an Erasmus+ project
 set out to develop a set of core principles that institutions can use to help them design, construct
 and develop new learning and teaching spaces, providing a framework for institutions to work
 within to ensure that they make best use of their resources. The project involved partnerships
 with other universities including Universidad Publica de Navarra (Spain), Universita Degli Studi
 di Milano (Italy), Universiteti Aab (Kosovo), Wirtschaftsuniversitat Wien (Austria), Uniwersytet
 Jagiellonski (Poland), Stiftung Evaluationsagentur Baden-Wuerttemberg (Germany), and
 Universidade De Aveiro (Portugal). The project received over £300,000 in funding.

 Professor Lee-Treweek won an Erasmus+ grant of over £250,000 for the project Enabling
 Mental Health Benefits: resilience, achievement, competencies and engagement in improved
 higher education policy and practice for student wellbeing (EMBRACE HE). EMBRACE HE
 sought to bring together models of innovative best practice and embedded curricular,
 extracurricular, pedagogical, pastoral and collaborative activities (with Students’ Unions, external
 stakeholder etc.), to address student mental illness and wellbeing, with a unique open access
 toolkit training model. The project will conclude in 2022 and the project consortium includes the
 Public University of Navarre, the Western Balkans Institute, the University of Crete, and Vilnius
 University, with BCU leading the project.


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Aside from successful grant capture, members of this new UoA also applied for a further £1m+
 in funding but these bids were unsuccessful. In addition to the long list of funding support
 discussed in Section 2, research officers, part of the Research and Enterprise Support Office,
 sent calls for grants, held workshops to assist in grant capture, and have provided direct support
 for applications.


 Infrastructure and Research management

 Effective research governance is managed strategically at Faculty level by the Faculty Research
 Committee and the Faculty Research Degrees and Environment Committee (FREDEC) who
 hold regular meetings. The Faculty Academic Ethics Committee (FAEC) has cross-faculty
 responsibility for ethical approval and compliance. Research ethics reviews are undertaken by
 FAEC and reports to the University Research Ethics Governance and Compliance Committee
 (UREGCC) which reports to the University Research Committee (URC). The Research
 Excellence team coordinates support for ethical review of staff and PGR research. The
 University subscribes and conforms to the Universities UK concordat to support research
 integrity. BCU approved a Research Data Management statement to guide the development of
 data management and access policies in years to come.

 The Faculty has implemented a range of improvements to support research, including adopting
 new software for collating and tracking research bid data, obtaining additional administrative
 assistance through the appointment of research support officers, and improving communications
 between research leads and the Finance Office. Research activity within the BLSS Faculty has
 been supported by the creation of high-quality physical research spaces, technical support,
 intellectual resources, and the IT infrastructure required to conduct world class research and
 innovation. In the summer of 2015, the BLSS Faculty moved from City North Campus to The
 Curzon Building, a new, purpose-built facility on the City Centre Campus. This facilitated an
 important step-change in our identity and external profile when it came to collaborations. In
 2017, the Curzon Building was extended, and a new PGR Hub was opened within this space.
 This provided dedicated research spaces to support the growing PGR community, with a
 common room, kitchen and 60 shared office spaces to enable them to effectively work on their
 research and develop a strong sense of community.

 On top of the standard IT and library provision, the University has provided the use of Adobe
 Suite applications on University laptops which have been used to promote and disseminate
 research in new and innovative ways. One particular example of this is the reproduction of an
 academic paper by Professor Andrews, ‘The Psychosis of Whiteness’, which explored the
 representations of the transatlantic slave trade in film. The article was made into a feature length
 documentary film by another member of the UoA in order to demonstrate how an academic
 article can be made into popular content. The film has since been selected for the 16th Annual
 Oakland International Film Festival and has been screened in cinemas and to facilitate
 conversations between film enthusiasts and scholars, psychiatrists and psychologists, race and
 ethnicity scholars, and NGOs.




                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration was central to CCSR which had the aim to “develop a tradition of critical social
 research that builds links to organisations, communities and movements outside of academia, in
 local, national and international contexts.” The strategy of developing an outward-focused team
 of critical social scientists actively enabled large levels of collaboration across both academic
 institutions and external organisations including NGOs, community groups, and society at large.
 This multi-pronged strategy to facilitate collaboration supplemented University-wide initiatives.

 At the Faculty level, meetings for a large segment of staff across subject areas were arranged to
 identify potential opportunities for partnerships on interdisciplinary projects. The Faculty also
 encouraged collaboration through the creation of cross-faculty seminars and actively recruited
 new external partners in order to generate potential project ideas and funding applications. Each
 cluster within CCSR was able to make their own relevant links to external partners, but support
 was distributed across the team to share best practice and experiences.

 Our UoA has been particularly strong in developing strategic collaborating across national and
 international lines through a wide array of different routes which have bolstered our research
 culture, connectivity, and cohesion. Through strategic engagement this unit has connections with
 over 175 institutions and organisation across 29 countries and five continents.

 University partnerships formed as a result of the focus on collaboration and impact that was at
 the heart of the UoA’s strategy. In particular, strong links were made with Tarrant County
 College in Texas, Xavier University of Louisiana, Tulane University, the University of Ibadan, and
 the University of Bremen. These partnerships have led to academic visits and public discussions
 that produced the exchange of innovative research and methodologies.

 The development of collaboration was bolstered by the establishment of the Blackness in Britain:
 Beyond the Black Atlantic research network. The Blackness in Britain network received AHRC
 funding of £36,338 which functioned to redress the marginalisation of people from the African
 diaspora by bringing together an interdisciplinary range of academics, activists, and artists who
 engaged in close dialogue that explored Black life in Britain and made links across the African
 diaspora. Specifically, the network resulted in three symposiums, a conference, a book writing
 workshop, an edited book, and a book series with ZED Books.

 The unit has furthered its networks through regularly hosting public lectures and research
 seminars with over 12 international speakers from universities in 7 different countries, alongside
 dozens from around the United Kingdom. International speakers included Professor Stephen
 Small of the University of California, Berkeley, Dr Alessandra di Maio from the University of
 Palermo, Professor Verene Shepherd from the University of the West Indies and Dr Camilla
 Hawthorne from the University of California, Santa Cruz. UK based scholars who have
 presented in events hosted by our unit include retired Professor Gus John, Dr Mónica Moreno
 Figueroa from Cambridge University, Dr Angelica Pesarini from the University of Leeds, and Dr
 William Ackah of Birkbeck University.

 In addition to academic partnerships and collaborations, strong connections have been made
 with dozens of local and international businesses and non-governmental organisations across
 13 countries including the Società di Medicina e Sanità Penitenziaria in Italy, the Centrul Pentru
 Promovarea Invatarii Permanente in Romania, and the New Urban Collective in the Netherlands.
 Events hosted at BCU also featured non-academics such as playwright Don Kinch, theatre
 producer Aduke Aremu, filmmaker Medhin Paolos, the Paramount Chief of Essikado (British
 Sekondi) Traditional Area and President of the Traditional Council from Ghana; and activists
 such as Sister Esther Standford-Xoseia and Antumi Toasije. This helped to strengthen not only
 academic collaborations but also engage the wider public and help to produce greater impact.

 Of course, members of the unit have also engaged in the academic community through our
 position as board members and peer reviewers for major academic journals and publishers. Our

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UoA has contributed to dozens of journals and publishers, both UK-based and internationally.
 These include Revista Internacional de Sociología, New Media and Society, Mobilization: An
 International Quarterly, Gender, Work, and Organization, Palgrave Macmillan, Routledge, ZED
 Books, Policy Press, Bristol University Press, and many more.

 The wide range of collaborations have led to important contributions to wider society. The work
 of the unit has led to major inroads in the promotion of Black Studies across Europe where little
 educational focus has been placed on people of African descent and the socio-political
 consequences of European colonialism. The neglect of these important areas of knowledge has
 slowly been rectified through the work of the unit and the strategic decision-making of the
 University and Faculty. BCU created the first Black Studies undergraduate programme in
 Europe, while Professor Andrews helped inform the European Union Resolution On
 Fundamental Rights of People of African Descent in Europe. Andrew’s work on Black Studies is
 held in high esteem and he is regularly invited to speak and give keynote lectures at prestigious
 institutions and to large public audiences. From 2015 to 2019, Professor Andrews presented at
 over 80 events in 8 countries across four continents. These included keynotes at the University
 of Manchester, UCL, LSE, Leeds University, the British Sociological Association, and the British
 Sociological Association Medical Social Conference. He has also regularly appeared on
 television and radio.

 Professor Morag MacDonald’s work in the field of prison reform is also world renowned and has
 made important impact. She has been consulted by a range of international organisations and
 for publications in important medical journals including the United Nations Office on Drugs and
 Crime (UNODC); The European Institute for Crime Prevention and Control, affiliated with the
 United Nations; the International Affairs Directorate of Health Canada and World Health
 Organisation; and The Lancet Infectious Diseases. Her work has been cited or acknowledged in
 over 30 reports and publications by organisations including European Parliament reports, the
 UNODC’s Bangkok Rules, UN’s International Labour Organisation, and the World Health
 Organization. MacDonald’s work has had important impact on prisons and vulnerable people
 through its effect on national and international policymaking with regarding to the Dublin
 Declaration on HIV/AIDS in Prisons in Europe and Central Asia.

 Other important contributions from the unit have been the creation of campaigner training,
 consultations on gender inequalities in the workplace, knowledge exchange development and
 many more. These contributions to society have been facilitated by a strategic approach to
 developing collaboration, an environment that produces successful grant capture for large-scale
 and collaborative projects, a focused effort toward local as well as international impact, and
 through additional financial investments in dissemination activities including conference funding.




                                                                                            Page 13
