  Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Institution: University of Bath

Unit of Assessment: 20         Social Policy and Social Work

Cross-referencing to the Institutional-Level Environment Statement REF5a is thus: [ILE #00]

Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

   1.1. Overview
The University of Bath is an internationally recognised centre for social policy research, achieving
a high level of success in REF 2008 and REF 2014. The overarching strategic objectives we set
for the present assessment period were ‘to undertake high quality research of international
significance in social policy that contributes to critical scientific understanding and to policy
and practice and is oriented to new and emerging challenges of the contemporary world.’
Our research draws on expertise across social policy, sociology, social work, criminology,
international development, public health, economics and policy sciences, forging synergies that
address major contemporary policy debates. We collaborate with research groups across the
University, on inter-disciplinary problems of shared interest, and with research centres around the
world.
We question the conceptual boundaries and theoretical paradigms that underpin social policy
studies. Social policy studies traditionally focused on rich countries, development studies on poor.
As those divisions dissolve, in a globalising world, we are forging a more integrated understanding
of poverty, wellbeing, social protection, conflict prevention and socio-economic development.
Colleagues advise the UN and its agencies, WHO, World Bank, the EU institutions, non-
government organisations, parliament and government departments in the UK and abroad. We
are active in reviews of research, through UK funding bodies and internationally, and contribute
strongly to the larger research community. We have a vigorous record of public engagement and
capacity building activities with public, voluntary and private sector partners. This knowledge
exchange helps secure strong impact for our research.
In the sections that follow, we evidence the vitality of our research environment, with a thriving
research culture and a clearly articulated strategy for research and impact. We attract excellent
postgraduate and postdoctoral researchers, including through new forms of professional
doctorate. We are investing in new capabilities aligned with emerging future challenges, to ensure
the sustainability of our research.
In all this, we are strongly committed to equality and diversity, through a supportive and inclusive
environment for all staff and students, with opportunities for support and progression based on
merit, rather than background, identity, beliefs, characteristics or circumstances.

   1.2. How Research is Structured across the UoA
This Unit of Assessment involves academics primarily from the Department of Social and Policy
Sciences (DSPS) and the Department for Health (DfH).
Our research themes during the current REF period grew out of REF2014. They encompass the
expertise of our various research groups and the critical mass we have built in relation to
contemporary policy concerns:
   •   Global Transformations and Insecurity
   •   Children, Young People and Families
   •   Lifelong Health and Well-being
   •   Work, Welfare, Poverty and Social Protection
   •   Governance and Policy Design
Research into these topics is organised through CASP (Centre for the Analysis of Social Policy)
and CDS (Centre for Development Studies). With their support, this REF period has seen highly

                                                                                             Page 1
  Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
productive collaboration between colleagues with backgrounds in social policy (SP) and
international development (ID), important for bids to GCRF. CDAS (Centre for Death and Society)
has a narrower focus on death studies, but again in relation to the afore-mentioned policy
concerns, such as poverty, families and well-being. The Tobacco Control Research Group (TCRG)
addresses commercial determinants of health and the governance of public health policies, not
least in the global south.
During this REF period, two further themes have developed, in response to emerging policy
debates nationally and internationally, where we are well-placed in terms of our expertise:
   • Conflict, migration and humanitarian action: focusing on the drivers of marginality; how
       marginalised groups experience conflict and migration; the intersections between
       humanitarian governance, conflict and social policy; and the role of civil society in
       responding to conflict.
   • Crime, justice and human rights: focusing on the gendered politics of criminal justice,
       migration control, detention and imprisonment, and how a range of different actors
       contribute to the architecture, infrastructure and technology of justice and confinement.
   1.3. Achievement of Strategic Aims during the REF 2020 Assessment Period
Our Social Policy Research Strategy for 2014-20 encompassed the following aims:
   •   to strengthen our research capacity and sustainability;
   •   to build and sustain world-wide research partnerships of high repute and strengthen the
       policy science community in the UK and internationally;
   •   to secure local, national and global impact for our research across the academic
       community and with public policy-makers, practitioners and users in public services,
       business, civil society and the media;
   •   to recruit, develop and retain academic staff of the highest calibre and promise;
   •   to strengthen the alignment between our research and our teaching, and ensure that our
       graduates are equipped to think in a critical and research-sensitive manner;
   •   to enable all academic staff, contract researchers and research students to contribute to
       a common research culture which emphasises equality and diversity and to find
       professional and personal fulfilment therein.
Subsequent sections demonstrate a high level of success in meeting these aims. This success is
evidenced in our headline indicators and deliverables:
   •   We have seen an increase in Category A staff from 35.35 to 46.82 FTE during the REF2020
       period
   •   Over this period, external research income has grown by two-thirds, from £7m to £11.7m.
   •   Our REF research outputs show 55% being attributed to female staff, the same as the
       proportion within the UoA; while half of our impact case studies were led by women.
   •   Our new professional doctorate has put us a strong upward trajectory for doctoral
       completions.

   1.4. Looking Beyond 2020
During 2017, we began to look beyond the current REF period, re-framing the future direction of
our research and strategically pivoting to new agendas.
1. In a research horizon-scanning process, involving leading external contributors, we examined
   the emerging research challenges for the social sciences over the next 5-10 years. This
   highlighted inter alia the fractures in the UK domestic welfare settlement; the social policy
   implications of European turbulence; and global development challenges.
2. We identified how our diverse methodological and paradigmatic approaches, combined and
   applied in new ways, could equip us to occupy strategic niches in relation to these emerging
   challenges.




                                                                                           Page 2
  Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
3. We considered what investments to make in the capabilities of our staff, what new talent to
   recruit and how better to draw on their diversity and accelerate their progress.
4. Our research centres have been central to this re-direction of research effort, developing new
   niches and ensuring the vitality and resilience of our research culture:
   • CASP continues its long-established focus on the UK welfare settlement, its erosion and
      prospects, its international comparators; but adding a new focus on disability and the ever-
      vexed policy questions around social care.
   • CDS has taken on a leadership role in relation to GCRF activities, convening seminars
      across the University for GCRF grant winners.
   • TCRG is expanding beyond tobacco to embrace alcohol, diet, gambling and other drivers
      of non-communicable disease. This resonates with CASP’s interest in corporate power and
      with CDS interest in the regulatory vulnerabilities of the global south.
   • CDAS has taken a leading role during 2020 in our research response to the COVID-19
      crisis.
5. Alongside our established research centres, we have encouraged the development of new
   research clusters and ‘pop-up’ centres. The first of these pop-up centres are concerned with
   migration and displacement, decolonising knowledge and prisons research. This is
   consistent with our more general commitment to a social science that gives space for multiple
   voices.
This strategic redirection of our research effort has enabled us to respond more powerfully to
emerging national and international priorities (Section 4.6). It has also enabled us to contribute
the more strongly to our national disciplinary associations, which constitute key sounding boards
for our ideas (Section 4.5). We have thus been well-placed both to benchmark and to differentiate
our own trajectory by reference to those of our peers.
This mode of development makes for research that is original and rigorous, but also agile, timely
and strong in its policy impact.

   1.5. Support for Interdisciplinary Research
The policy problems addressed by social policy scholars are often entangled with each other,
raising complex trade-offs and path dependencies. To address such problems requires an active
and well-connected interdisciplinary research community, linking up a range of methodologies and
organising them for specific and well-focussed investigative projects.
Our research centres are hubs for much of this interdisciplinary co-working, with colleagues in our
own Faculty, but also with Management, Maths and Computer Science, Architecture and
Engineering. Thus for example:
• Maconachie has conducted a succession of research projects concerned with sustainable
   and socially equitable development across West Africa - involving civil and mechanical
   engineers, chemists, geographers and management academics and with funding from GCRF.
   This has also forged strong links with African academic institutions, building capacity and
   mentoring ECRs.
• Charles was co-investigator on “Water treatment units for rural communities using 3D-printing,
   mathematical modelling, optimisation and evaluation”, involving chemistry, biology,
   engineering and Maths, under an EPSRC grant from GCRF 2016 –2017.
• Hart has worked with Architecture in major action-research projects on housing for refugees
   in the Middle East, under EPSRC grants during 2016-20.
We also work closely with the Institute for Policy Research (IPR) [Section 3.2 below] and the
Institute for Mathematical Innovations (IMI), established in 2015 to apply mathematical
sciences to research having economic and social impact [ILE#2.14].
We debate the strengths and limitations of the paradigms that dominate our various disciplines.
Data science brings a revolution in our practice of social science; complexity science offers
important insights but has its own limitations; behaviourism captures swathes of the policy



                                                                                            Page 3
  Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research community, not least in the response to Covid-19. We assess critically these
methodological and conceptual developments and the role they play in the policy world.
Our strength in quantitative methods and longitudinal studies, involving Cooke and Gregg, Millar
and Dickson, has been enhanced by the arrival of Channon, Golan and Kanabar.
We contribute to the new Faculty-wide Qualitative Research Centre, supporting qualitative
methods training and advice, and targeting industrial collaboration and consultancy.
Room, Copestake and Rutter are pioneering methodological and paradigmatic innovations that
draw on complexity theory, historical institutionalism and social realism, and applying these to
social policy, public health and international development.
This makes for a research community characterised by methodological innovation, diversity and
rigour.
We contribute to the University’s development of big data analytics and applications, including:
• Collaboration with IPR and BANES local authority, led by Dickson, aimed at connecting
  administrative, clinical and open population data for local policy and practice;
• Cooke’s analysis of Finnish administrative data, and Dickson and Gregg’s analysis of UK
  LEO educational outcomes data, linking education statistics and benefits data;
• Critical assessment by Carmel of predictive analytics and digital social policy; and a
  contribution to the Nolan Committee Report on AI and Public Standards (2020);
• Collaboration with the IMI and the European Patent Office, analysing large patent data sets
  for understanding the social dynamics of technological innovation (Room).
   1.6. Progressing an Open Research Environment
The University Library was one of the first in the UK to establish a permanent team, to support
researchers in the planning, curation, preservation, and publication of research data and software
[ILE#2.26].
We are attentive to the stronger requirements for open data, emanating from the ESRC and other
UKRI funders, and recent H2020/ERC-funded projects. We are working to ensure that our
published data comply with the FAIR data principles and the Concordat on Open Research Data.
We are progressing this through particular trail-blazers, including:
• For the EU-funded WorkFREE project led by Howard, collection of personal data is subject to
  Indian, as well as UK data protection legislation. This has required additional training to ensure
  that research data are protected while working remotely and to comply with legal restrictions
  on international data transfers. This has provided a model for research projects in various
  African countries led by Maconachie and Godt (IPR professional doctorate).
• The TCRG has produced databases of tobacco industry documentation and tactics obtained
  under FOI requests, curating these data for easy use by other researchers. This innovative
  knowledge-exchange platform – TobaccoTactics – is also being used by public health actors
  world-wide, to illuminate and resist such tactics.
• Ozieranski’s research on the pharmaceuticals industry has involved numerous FOI requests,
  in collaboration with the British Medical Journal, to unveil the financial relations between the
  industry and healthcare providers. He has curated the corresponding databases for use by the
  wider research community.
The Department Research Committee reviews and draws out good data practices for the benefit
of our research community, including PGR training.

   1.7. A Culture of Ethical Integrity
Acting responsibly, avoiding harm and inclusivity are central to our research, in line with the
Concordat for Research Integrity (2019).
Ethical governance is secured through Faculty and University research ethics committees
[ILE#2.20-2.22]. Much of our work is concerned with vulnerable participants including children,
adults with disabilities, people in prison and those facing death and bereavement. We have well-


                                                                                             Page 4
  Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
established training and guidance for students and staff, embedding ethical concerns at each point
in the research process, from inception to dissemination.
We are mindful of new areas of ethical concern that require attention, including those associated
with COVID-19, regarding privacy in on-line fieldwork.
We notice the contrast between the increasing attention to data ethics within the University
research community and the questionable practices of the internet giants and indeed public policy
agents who draw on ‘big data’ and predictive analytics. We are beginning to address these areas
of data governance and justice (Carmel).
We are attentive to broader ethical concerns, including in relation to research impact, academic
freedom to publish and conflicts of interest. These and other emerging debates around research
ethics will feature in a new Handbook of Research Ethics in the Social Sciences edited by
Forrester-Jones (Edward Elgar). We also raise them for the University more generally, through
the appropriate ethics committees.
We believe that a culture of research integrity requires ethical conduct across the institution,
including a strong commitment to equality and diversity. Many members of staff in this UoA
contributed to the debates on University governance that erupted during 2018-19 - and the reform
processes that followed.
We believe that research integrity also requires environmental responsibility. When staff request
funds for international conference attendance, they are required to calculate the carbon footprint
of their trip via an online calculator and include a short report on their work-related air travel over
the previous 12 months. Even before COVID-19 restrictions, an increasing number of staff were
withdrawing from international conferences that involve air travel, and developing alternative ways
to disseminate their research findings.

   1.8. Impact Strategy
If our research is to have an impact beyond academia, we must first understand the practical
concerns of those who shape the social phenomena we study: what they take for granted and
what they seek to transform; what critical junctures, trade-offs and choices they face; what
struggles they wage and what power they exercise. As researchers we watch and interrogate
them, we question their assumptions, the evidence to which they appeal, the tangles in which they
find themselves.
That is why, to secure research impact with wide reach, we have built long-term linkages, of
knowledge exchange and development, with the institutions and organisations where policy and
practice are made. These are the users, beneficiaries and audiences of our research. They
include government institutions; civil society organisations, trades unions and professional bodies;
the business sector, including trade associations and insurance companies; and the news media:
all at the local, national and international levels. They also include the wider public, in many
countries across the industrial and developing world [Section 4.2]
In the previous REF period, we led the development of the Institute for Policy Research (IPR), for
linking up with these users of our research. We have greatly benefitted from this platform during
the present REF period, as indeed have other UoAs [Section 3.2 below and ILE#2.14].
Mentoring of staff – and especially of ECRs – is ensured by the Impact Director, having regard to
promoting equality and diversity [Section 2.1 below]. An impact forum enables colleagues to share
and expand their repertoire of impact practices. Our community of doctoral researchers, many
embedded in the world of professional practice, bring additional insights and connections.
In our approach to impact, a key objective has been to identify the potential for impact from
research projects at the earliest possible stage, to scan the horizon for situations where research
results may have greatest effect, and to target potential sponsors of future work. We thus aim to
integrate impact into the entire research cycle.
Our approach to impact takes three main forms: well-illustrated by our impact case studies, but
also by the larger array of our impact activities (Section 4.3 below]:


                                                                                                Page 5
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   Projecting research into the policy realm: This is broadly consistent with a ‘linear’ model of
    how research flows into government policy. As our case studies reveal however, impact is
    often contested, and the research evidence must therefore be championed continuously, by
    engaging with a wide range of constituencies. [Gregg and Woodthorpe case studies]
•   ‘Co-production’ and knowledge exchange: We work with policy makers, practitioners, civil
    society groups and businesses, in the joint production of knowledge and policy lessons.
    Indeed, it is often through these interactions that we become aware of new policy challenges:
    they serve as our early warning antennae. [Devine case study]
•   Critical engagement with policy, power and the wider public: We use our research
    evidence to expose the role of powerful groups, in shaping the public debate. It is the research
    evidence that remains centre-stage; but through targeted engagement with political actors, we
    use it to secure major effects on public wellbeing. [Gilmore case study]
Yet none of these vehicles to impact is self-contained or sufficient by itself; we therefore seek to
learn from each other how to combine these approaches and become agile impact entrepreneurs.
Further examples of our impact activities and their contribution to policy, economy and society
appear in Section 4.3 below.

    1.9. Research and Impact during the C-19 Pandemic [ILE#2.09]
During 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic is testing the adaptability, vitality, resilience and
sustainability of our research culture. We have nevertheless applied our research capabilities and
skills, to understand the problems associated with the pandemic – and this research has already
been having an impact. As well as contributing to a wide range of mainstream media, blogs and
social media outlets, this research has included:
• Rutter sits on the UK Government’s SAGE group of experts and is co-chair of its
     Environmental Modelling Group (EMG), concerned with understanding transmission routes
     and the impact of environmental and behavioural interventions.
• Skinner was invited to present evidence to the Women and Equalities Select Committee of
     the UK Parliament, on the economic and gender inequalities for disabled people during the
     C19 pandemic.
• Millar is participating in the Nuffield Foundation’s Covid Realities, exploring the implications of
     the pandemic for families with low income, through the linking of ongoing research projects.
• Brown won GCRF funding to promote innovative community-based social distancing
     strategies in townships in South Africa, working in partnership with Stellenbosch University.
• In June 2020, Hart and Enria launched a research project (funded by DFID and the Global
     Health Charity ELRHA), to assess some of the immediate impacts of COVID-19 for refugee
     communities living in camps in the Gaza Strip.
• Howard was prominent in international arguments for a basic income, to ensure some stability
     of incomes amidst the economic devastation of the pandemic.
Section 2. People

    2.1. Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
This submission involves 52 Category A staff: including 13 Professors, 2 Readers, 31 SLs and
Lecturers and 6 Research Staff (46.82 FTE). 23 have joined since 2014, of whom 20 were ECRs
and 3 were recruited to Chairs.
We seek to ensure that all our academic staff contribute to a common research culture and find
professional and personal fulfilment therein. They are our principal resource and investment in our
research environment. They are also key to our future strategic development, as we build new
capabilities and pivot to new agendas [Section 1.4]. [ILE#3.1, 3.3]
We provide support and opportunities for progression based on equality and merit, rather than
background, identity, beliefs, characteristics or circumstances. This is consistent with the focus of
much of our research – concerned as this is with inequality, discrimination, identity and self-
development.


                                                                                              Page 6
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   Demographic profile and management of research
Since 2014, four Professors have retired (Butler, Ridge, Walter, Wood), one (Miller) has moved
elsewhere. Three (Gregg, Millar and Room) are now part-time, but remain academically very
active. Internal professorial promotions strengthen leadership in international development
(Devine, Maconachie, White) and Social Work (Brown); all exercise leadership roles across the
Department and Faculty. Brown has been appointed Associate Dean for Internationalisation,
where she is supported through the University’s Academic Leaders’ Programme 2020.
Meanwhile the University has invested in three new professorial appointments, expanding our
strength into criminology (Jewkes), disability (Forrester-Jones) and health (Rutter). Forrester-
Jones is the new director of CASP. Jewkes leads the development of criminology research and
is Director of Research for the Department. Rutter joins Gilmore in providing professorial
leadership for research in global public health.
Recruitment of these senior staff has been in part for their strong ‘impact’ portfolios. Forrester-
Jones is Co-Chair of the European Association of Palliative Care (EAPC) Task Force on learning
disabilities and works internationally to improve legislation and care. Rutter has a long-term
involvement in WHO Europe and child obesity. He is also a member of the UK COVID-19 SAGE
committee. Jewkes has a long record of work with prison authorities internationally and with the
International Committee of the Red Cross, on prison design and rehabilitation across the world.
This won her ESRC’s Celebrating Impact Prize 2020 for outstanding societal impact.
•   Staff development
        Academic Staff
The UOA expects all staff on probation to enrol on a University-wide ‘Bath Course’ designed
specifically for them. This covers teaching and research skills, and enables staff to secure
Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy status (Moore for example is a Senior Fellow). The
whole 3-year probation process is overseen by the Dean of Faculty and the University’s Academic
Staff Committee.
At Departmental level, we have additional supports, including a mentor for each probationer. The
HoD regularly brings together probationary staff with post-docs and RAs, to learn more about
University processes and procedures, and discuss issues related to academic life. He also sets
aside ‘start up funds’ from the operating budget to support probationary staff. Probationary staff
have 25% of their workload allocation for probation activities in year 1 (tapering through years 2
and 3). They have no significant administrative responsibilities.
All core academic staff have an annual Staff Development Performance (SDPR) review, which
also sets goals, identifies obstacles and training needs and considers longer-term professional
development. All completed SDPRs are reviewed by the HoD and action taken to address issues
raised.
For all non-probationary staff, workload allocations support professional development in research
(around 30%) and teaching (around 10%). The UOA has dedicated funds for staff development in
relation to both research and teaching. The University offers a wide range of training opportunities
concerned for example with health and wellbeing, legal and university standards and procedures,
leadership and management, career development, and workplace technologies.
Excellence in research and impact are key criteria for academic promotion.
        Research Staff
In 2020 the University retained its ‘HR Excellence in Research’ Award, for its alignment with the
2008 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Research Staff. Fixed-term research and
teaching staff are included in probationary arrangements and CPD mentorship, supporting their
research careers. [ILE#3.9-3.13]
Such research staff are central to our research success. The majority are involved in funded
research projects, but some have secured their own funding, such as British Academic
Fellowships. They complete the centrally-led Induction for Research Staff and there is a range of


                                                                                             Page 7
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
specially tailored training opportunities. At Departmental level, we have a senior member to
oversee their career development.
•   Research Fellowships
CDS has raised external funds from its international partners to support CDS postdocs.
A major initiative in 2012 was the introduction of Prize Fellowships to support staff with the potential
to be future research leaders. (The University originally established these Fellowships in
celebration of Social Policy’s winning of the Queen’s Anniversary Prize Award in 2011: ILE#3.15).
At the end of the fellowship, successful researchers are appointed to permanent positions at the
University. Through this, the Department has secured four Prize Fellows - Dickson, Ozieranski,
Lenner, and Howard. Dickson was promoted to Reader in 2017.
The external research fellowships won during 2014-20 (Section 4.5) contribute to individual staff
development, but they also contribute to our strategic research vision: building methodological
innovation and diversity; multi-disciplinary connections to other academic expertise; international
research collaboration; and strong engagement with policy makers and research users.
•   Sabbatical leave and secondments
Sabbatical leave is available after seven semesters, for full-time and part-time staff on academic
contracts. Periods of maternity leave count towards those seven. Staff on sabbatical are relieved
from all departmental responsibilities.
Since 2014, 17 members of staff (11 female and 6 male) have had sabbatical leave. We have also
supported two staff (both female) requesting leave of absence: Deneulin had a one-year
appointment at Notre Dame University (USA); Johnson a year’s absence to pursue her interest
in climate and the environment. Other opportunities for leave have emerged from the partnership
between the IPR and the Cabinet Office (Section 3.2].
Such sabbaticals, leaves of absence and placements focus on research development. They have
led to publications, impact case studies, external engagement, research grant applications, and
network-building [as evidenced in Section 4].
•   Research Mentoring
As Director of Research, Jewkes offers one-on-one discussion about individual research plans
for the next three to five years, new high-impact publishing outlets, suitable sources of funding,
etc., to ensure that staff at all stages of their careers develop and thrive as researchers. As Impact
Director, Room offers similar support.
Impact is embedded in the research training of academic staff, ECRs and PGRs. Peer review of
grant applications includes careful assessment of plans for ‘pathways to impact’, by senior
academic colleagues and the University’s Research Innovation Services (RIS). Impact, knowledge
exchange and public engagement are included in workload management, annual staff
performance reviews, promotions, and in the selection of new members of academic staff.

    2.2. Research Students – training and support
We are strongly committed to our international community of research students, the quality of the
environment they enjoy and their full participation in our research culture.
We have a large, inter-disciplinary body of PGRs, working as active members of our research
groups and developing their own research community. Each has a main and a second supervisor.
A Board of Examiners, comprising two independent assessors, oversees confirmation of PhD
status, normally after 12 months.
In 2017, the University created the Doctoral College (DC), responsible for recruitment and
administrative support to all PGRs [ILE#3.17ff]. Its doctoral skills programme embraces project
management, IT and writing skills, presentations and teaching; and more specialist and advanced
research techniques, methods and practices.



                                                                                                 Page 8
  Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The DC provides PGRs with dedicated careers support. This includes extensive web resources
tailored to their career development needs, career opportunities and panel events with doctoral
alumni, and access to professional networks. One of our PGRs (Hannah West) won the
University’s first Doctoral Award for Public Engagement in 2020.
At Departmental level, provision focuses on informal, peer-led training, both subject-specific (e.g.
managing fieldwork abroad; researching sensitive issues) and generic (e.g. deconstructing the
written thesis, understanding supervisory styles; using academic social media and developing
impact pathways). In addition, we have introduced bespoke training events in response to student
requests: for example, in April 2019, a training workshop on Qualitative Longitudinal Research
Methodologies.
A significant number of doctoral students spend part of their time away from campus: on fieldwork,
an internship at another research institution, or ‘writing up’. We place great importance on
supervisors maintaining contact and support with off-campus students. We are also committed to
supporting the wellbeing and mental health of our PhD students, particularly when undertaking
fieldwork in stressful environments.
From within the DC, Student Services work with students with disabilities and other special needs
in relation to mental health and general wellbeing. International students receive bespoke advice
from the International Experience Coordinator in Student Services, starting with induction into life
in the UK. The proportion of our PGRS coming from BAME backgrounds has increased steadily
through this REF period, from 32% in 2013/14 to 51% in 2019/20.
During this REF period we have established a clear policy framework for Graduate Teaching
Assistants. All PGRs who wish to become GTAs attend a compulsory one-day training course led
by Moore. Every year, she also runs informal workshops, to support GTAs who apply for HEA
Associate Fellowship, with very positive feedback.
In addition to weekly seminars and peer-training, we run biannual ‘forums’ for feedback and
general reflection on the development of the PGR community. Each September, our PGR students
organise a day-long symposium attended by the bulk of our academic staff, a ‘taster’ for presenting
their research at external conferences. PGRs also produce a quarterly bulletin.
During this assessment period, 19 PGRs have been supported by ESRC studentships, some
through the SWDTP. Funds for conference attendance are available to both funded and self-
funded students, with a Faculty scheme to support students and supervisors jointly presenting at
international conferences. We have also set aside an annual fund to support their research costs,
purchase of data sets, specialized equipment, etc. Presentation of papers at conferences, leading
to academic publication, is an important part of PGR training. Between January 2018 and July
2020, our PGR students produced 38 peer-reviewed articles and book chapters and presented 64
conference papers.
Finally, we play a lead role in IPR’s Professional Doctorate in Policy Research and Practice
(DPRP), where Copestake is Director of Studies. This enables mid-career public policy
professionals to pursue a part-time doctorate in policy research and practice, upgrading their
research skills and accessing the full array of training available through the Doctoral College. While
the Table below indicates as yet only very modest figures for Professional Doctorate completions,
this will dramatically change as the first and subsequent DPRP cohorts complete.

 Degree
                2013/4     2014/5     2015/6     2016/7     2017/8     2018/9    2019/0     Total
 type

 Professional
              2.00         2.00       3.00       4.50       1.00       4.50      0.60       17.60
 doctorate

 PhD            9.38       15.13      12.44      9.38       18.30      6.38      5.47       76.46

 Total          11.38      17.13      15.44      13.88      19.30      10.88     6.07       94.06



                                                                                               Page 9
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    2.3. Equality and Diversity
Since the 2014 REF exercise, we have invested considerable effort in the promotion of equality,
diversity and inclusion, with very positive results. [ILE#3.20-3.25]
•   Policies and Monitoring
Across the University, we have specific policies on Trans equality, Dignity and Respect,
recruitment and selection code of practice, flexible working hours, maternity rights, occupational
stress management and childcare, which are regularly reviewed. These apply to all staff, honorary
and visiting staff, students and third parties (e.g. contractor, client or customer of the University).
Within the UoA, we have built on these University initiatives, to encourage staff in equality and
diversity training. Applications for Bronze and Silver Athena SWAN awards have stimulated an
extensive re-appraisal of our equality and diversity practices.
Our Equality and Diversity Committee monitors data on recruitment and promotion. It conducts
regular surveys of staff and students; these are used to monitor equality and diversity issues,
including awareness and attitudes. Equality and Diversity is also a standing agenda item in
general departmental staff and executive committee meetings. This aims to embed an inclusive
culture within departmental business.
•   Gender and Equality
Genders are well-balanced within this submission (58% of Category A staff are female, 56% on
FTE basis), and female staff occupy prominent leadership roles. Throughout this REF period, the
proportion of our PGRs who are women has been between 55% and 65%.
At Professorial level, 56% are women (FTE basis). Women from this UoA are also in a number of
research leadership positions: Chair of Department Research Committee, Directorships of CASP
and TCRG, Associate Faculty Dean for Internationalisation. Leadership training is offered to
women through the Aurora programme. Promotions for women are carefully supported by senior
colleagues. The result has been a very successful record of promotions to Senior Lecturer.
•   Integration into the workplace
Staff with childcare responsibility, health issues and disabilities – both male and female – are given
reduced workloads where necessary, and/or flexible working arrangements. Timetabling
exemptions are also used, to ensure that focussed time can be allocated to research. Such special
circumstances are highlighted in promotion applications.
Disabilities are addressed on a case-by-case basis, through discussion with the staff concerned,
and where appropriate with the University’s Occupational Health team. Support can include
Personal Emergency Evacuation Planning, workplace assessments and reasonable adjustments,
including in workload (e.g. to account for autism, dyslexia), tailored equipment (e.g. noise
cancelling headphones) and software (e.g. for dictation).
We encourage staff to make managers aware of such disabilities: and among our academic staff,
the rate of such registration is three times higher (9%) than across the academic community of the
University as a whole.
Extra costs for research and conference travel by those with disabilities or caring responsibilities
is considered on a case by case basis, with no cases having yet been declined.
•   Ethnicity and nationality
This is a further noteworthy aspect of our diversity: the range of societies and cultures from which
our colleagues hail and in relation to which they have developed their research expertise and
impact. Over this REF assessment period, academic staff in DSPS included 31 nationalities. CDS
has moreover had a succession of post-doc recruitments from the global south. We work with
these colleagues to support their professional development including with writing funding bids,
given their limited experience of working in UK institutions.



                                                                                               Page 10
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
This diversity expands the reach of our research and the challenges we can expect to address
and it broadens our collective horizons.
This does not however address the entrenched ethnic inequalities of opportunity within our own
society. We are therefore working with the University HR Department to promote opportunities for
applicants from BAME backgrounds. We have pressed for new hiring procedures at University
level, which will ensure more equal chances for such candidates. HR will use DSPS to pioneer
these procedures during 2020/21. [ILE#3.7]

     2.4. Equality and Diversity and the Construction of this REF submission
Consistent with the University of Bath’s REF 2021 Code of Practice, the procedures used to select
outputs for submission were consistent, transparent, accountable, and conducted in an inclusive
manner and in accordance with our institutional values and existing policies, including Equality &
Diversity policies. In line with these practices, output and impact case study selection was well-
balanced by gender (55% of all outputs were attributed to female staff, and 2 out of our 4 impact
studies were championed by women).
The UOA lead took University courses on Diversity in the Workplace (also called Diversity and
Inclusion in HE) and Unconscious Bias.

     2.5. People during the COVID-19 Pandemic
The C19 Pandemic has tested our People strategy, including on E&D, in a number of fundamental
ways – exposing both its strengths and its weaknesses.
The University has re-organised the campus space and regulated its use, so as to ensure
individual safety. What the pandemic has also however evoked is a strong sense of collective
solidarity across our academic community, consistent with our culture of ethical integrity - and with
the sociological perspective we share on individual and community behaviour. It is from that
standpoint that HoD has dealt with arrangements for supporting flexible and/or remote working
and for supporting our PGRs. The latter has for example included engagement with the city to
address public vilification of Chinese students during COVID-19.
Since the University moved to working remotely, we have conducted job interviews online. This
has proved a positive experience for many candidates and indeed for hiring managers. When we
return to campus, interview panels will likely continue to undertake ‘first round’ interviews online,
with only the preferred candidates attending campus for a face-to-face meeting.

Section 3. Income Infrastructure and Facilities

The University ensures strategic coordination of research at University, Faculty and Departmental
levels, working to the PVC Research. This has involved significant investments and
infrastructures. These support our methodological diversity; our multi-disciplinary connections to
other academic expertise; our international research collaborations; and our strong and growing
engagement with policy makers and research users. They enrich our research environment,
support our commitment to equality and diversity in our research community, and they reinforce
our impact.

    3.1. Research funding and strategies for generating research income
•   Major Research Grants
We aim at growth but also diversity in our funding base - important in securing resilience and
sustainability for our research. During the current REF period, the major sources of our research
income have been Research Councils (£3.6 million), UK Government and charities (almost £2
million), other UK sources (£685k), EU Commission and Governments (£1.6 million), other EU
sources (£450k), and other overseas sources (£3.5 million).
Large grants secured during this REF period, with the PI in this UoA, include:
Cooke: NEWFAMSTRAT (ERC: 2016-21): £1,402k

                                                                                             Page 11
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Gilmore: Bloomberg STOP (Bloomberg Philanthropies: 2018-2021): £5,735k to Bath out of $20
million total.
Gilmore: SPECTRUM (MRC: 2019-24): £485k to Bath out of £5.9 million total
Gooch: The Rehabilitation Prison (ESRC: 2019-2022): £400k
Jawad: Strengthening Social Welfare and Security in the MENA Region (AHRC: 2020-24):
£2million
Millar: Couples Balancing Work, Money and Care (ESRC: 2018-21): £542k
Grants which illustrate our funding leverage through inter-disciplinary working within the University
include:
Dickson: Data across Public Services (Cabinet Office: 2014-15): £21k mobilising £69k
Dinerstein: Youth and Skills Development (ESRC: 2020-21): £33k mobilising £380k
Hart: Healthy Housing for Refugees (EPSRC: 2017-20): £277k mobilising £1495k
The current portfolio of research funding (SPS and TCRG) for this UoA, extending beyond the
REF 2020 assessment period, is £12.8 million.
•   Strategies for generating grant income
Support for research and grant applications has become more systematic and proactive during
this REF period. Our Research Director and Departmental Research Committee are charged with
guiding staff in their grant applications, including undertaking ethical scrutiny. Directors of
Research Centres also offer support, throughout the development of proposals.
The University’s Research and Innovation Service (RIS) provides support and guidance for
academic staff, in applying for external research funding and in the financial administration of
projects [ILE#4.2]. Other professional services, such as the Public Engagement Unit and the
Research Impact Team, assist with writing into grant applications how our research links to and
influences wider society.
We address equality, diversity and inclusion throughout the research lifecycle. ECRs in particular
are carefully mentored in developing grant applications. The University’s regular funding bulletin
highlights funding opportunities for part-time staff and staff returning after career breaks. Our
internal funding allocation mechanisms ensure diversity of assessment panels, to ensure a broad
range of voices and perspectives in the decision-making process. [ILE#4.3]
The Department has an internal Peer Review process for grant proposals. Applicants receive
feedback from at least two experienced colleagues with expertise in the field and/or with the
funder. This can operate at high speed where needed to cope with short turn-around funding calls.
In collaboration with the University’s research information services, we monitor our research
performance with a view to improving the attainment of our strategy. [ILE#4.1-4.2]. We make
increasing use of metrics to compare our progress with that of our national and international peer
departments. These include tracking of citation indicators for the Department, trends in research
funding, and numbers of PGR funded studentships.

    3.2. Infrastructure supporting Research and Impact
• Departmental Infrastructures
During the present REF period, as well as stronger support at University level, research support
officers have been appointed at Departmental level.
IT resources have also been enhanced. Dickson for example led a successful bid for ESRC
funding for a SafePod in the University Library - a secure facility allowing academic and doctoral
researchers to access remotely restricted, confidential, or sensitive third-party datasets. It will be
available to researchers at other institutions - thus an investment for the wider academic
community.
Our research centres constitute a major operational and scholarly infrastructure, playing a key
role in developing new capabilities and research agendas. They also act as hubs of our
interdisciplinary co-working. Thus, for example, within our Faculty, TCRG bestrides the public


                                                                                              Page 12
  Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
health interests of DfH and DSPS; and almost half of the members of CDS are drawn from other
departments.
Again, much of the inspiration for impact has come from our research centres. All have regular
newsletters with global circulation among academics, practitioners and policy makers, professional
bodies and the public media. During 2019, CDS focussed on improving these means of
communication, by benchmarking against other leading International Development centres. Other
impact instruments include the TCRG’s website, providing public health campaigners with up-to-
date information on tobacco industry tactics, and CASP’s launch in 2020 of a series of Policy Labs,
for knowledge exchange with local, regional, national and international policymakers on healthy
ageing. CDAS demonstrates how a small research team can have a big impact, becoming the
global hub for end-of-life scholars and practitioners, including among Chinese scholars. Each of
our four research centres was responsible for one of our impact case studies.
• University Infrastructure for Impact
In the period up to 2014, we led a programme of strategic investment in Policy Sciences across
the University of Bath. In 2013, the University established an Institute for Policy Research (IPR),
with Room as the founding Director. Under Nick Pearce, the current Director, (previously Director
of the IPPR and Head of the 10 Downing Street Policy Unit), University investment has continued,
and the IPR has become a leading international centre for policy analysis and critique [ILE#2.14].
IPR now serves as a major multiplier of our research impact, facilitating our reach into government
and policy networks:
• It takes our research evidence to multiple audiences in a timely way and accessible form:
   through policy briefs, public engagement events and on-line media. An example is Death,
   Dying and Devolution, by Woodthorpe (September 2017), a key link in her impact case study.
• IPR’s Policy Fellowship Programme brings senior decision-makers, from government,
   industry and the third sector, to the University for one-to-one meetings with academics. Around
   thirty academics from this UoA have been involved. Carmel leads the IPR Artificial Intelligence
   Policy Fellowship Programme, and in this capacity has engaged with national civil servants
   and policymakers about AI, policy and regulation.
• The IPR is a member of the Universities Policy Engagement Network (UPEN), a network
   of 40 UK universities working to increase the public policy impact from their research, through
   calls for evidence, secondments with government departments and nominations for special
   advisers. Thus for example Hatchard is on a new HMRC database of academics available to
   advise HMRC on specific aspects of tobacco taxation.
• The University of Bath through IPR joined the Open Innovation Team (OIT) pilot project
   between 2016-2019. This aimed to deepen collaboration between academics and Whitehall
   officials to generate analysis and ideas for government priority projects and help officials
   collaborate more intensively with outside experts. Colleagues on placement have included
   Dixon on placement with the Department of Health and Social Care (adult mental health and
   safeguarding) in 2018.
• The IPR blog offers expert analysis, debate and comment on recent policy developments.
   During this REF period, around sixty IPR policy blogs have been authored by staff in this
   UoA.
Finally, IPR expands our international collaborations and places us at the heart of the University’s
international strategy, with links established with Stellenbosch, Yonsei in Korea, and the Hertie
School of Governance in Berlin. Here Copestake, Millar and Room have played key roles.
The IPR is not the only University infrastructure on which our impact activities draw.
The Public Engagement Unit supports researchers with community-based participatory
research, interdisciplinary arts programmes and focused work with community groups. [ILE#2.16]
The Media Centre supports researchers in engaging with the local, national and international
media.
The Research and Commercialisation Contracts team (within the Research and Innovation
Service) supports spin-outs.


                                                                                            Page 13
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We make good use of these University support systems, to enhance our research impact, for
example:
• Troyer as CDAS Director has often been sought via the Public Engagement Unit and Media
   Centre for expert media comment. He has thus been able to address public debates on
   assisted dying, organ donation bioethics, and national pandemic response plans for diverse
   audiences.
• Channon’s GCRF research project on menstrual hygiene policy in Nepal is concerned with
   chhaupadi (the traditional, now criminalised practice of being secluded in an outbuilding during
   menstruation). The Media Centre facilitated links with Nepalese media, NGOs and policy
   makers.
• Copestake was supported by the Research and Commercialisation Contracts team in
   spinning-out the non-profit company BSDR, to support innovative evaluation methods for
   development projects around the world.

    3.3. Exo-structures beyond the University
During this assessment period, the University has been developing regional and international
collaborations – ‘exo-structures’ - that can pool and reinforce our research power and impact.
Here too we have been agile in contributing to these, but also adapting them to our own goals.
•   Regional research collaborations
The GW4 partnership, with the Universities of Bristol, Cardiff and Exeter, aims to identify areas
of complementary expertise and develop research communities addressing major global and
industrial challenges [ILE#2.9]. It offers research development and seed money for developing
collaborative large funding bids. Colleagues within our UoA who have won and led GW4 awards
include Dixon, Manning, Skinner, Jawad, Walton and Moore. Alongside the GW4 research
partnership, the overlapping ESRC South West Doctoral Training Partnership (SWDTP) supports
collaborative provision for our PGR training.
•   International academic collaborations
The University International Relations Office manages a broad portfolio of network-building
activities. These include a seed-funding scheme for academic staff, enabling partner visits,
workshops and grant development, along with doctoral mobility and joint doctoral provision.
Strategic partnerships with universities in South Africa, Mexico and Brazil, South Korea and China,
have opened up opportunities to establish partnerships for development research and grant
capture. These have also enhanced the diversity value of internationalisation, supporting new
training opportunities for young scholars, and promoting diversity as a driver for inclusion and
creativity. [ILE#3.19]
• Dinerstein has used these IRO schemes to establish a ‘South-South Platform’ with the Latin
    American Council for Social Sciences (CLACSO) and the Council for the Development of
    Social Science Research in Africa (CODESRIA) (2017-2018); and the IRO ‘Developing
    Networks in Europe’ scheme (2019-2020) to consolidate a network of female academics for
    the development of Feminist theory
• Brown has used this IOR support in relation to social work and children’s services in China:
    developing joint publications with Sun Yat-Sen University and service projects with Chinese
    NGOs in Guangzhou; and becoming an Advisor to Hong Kong Council of Social Services. This
    has then led to collaboration with Save The Children over child protection systems in China
    and advising the Chinese government on new safeguard legislation.
Another IRO initiative has been the appointment of visiting Global Chairs, bringing eminent
academics to the University; and since 2019 a Women Global Chair scheme [ILE#2.5]. We have
attracted four of these appointments: Janine Wedel (George Mason), Anthony Bebbington
(Clark), Timothy Mitchell (Columbia) and Heike Solga (WZB Berlin). In 2019 we also attracted
Gary Goertz (Notre Dame) under the University’s longer-established scheme of Parkin Visiting
Professors.




                                                                                           Page 14
  Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

   4.1. Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
Fundamental to our research strategy is collaboration with colleagues, partners and research
users elsewhere. These research collaborations and partnerships build upon the ‘exostructures’
described in Section 3.3 – but also go well beyond them. Through these, we become aware of
new research and policy challenges; we extend the capabilities that we can deploy for research
and identify those we will want eventually to bring in-house; we test the value and novelty of our
research insights and we compare our progress with that of our national and international peers.
In many cases, these collaborations are indispensable when applying for large research grants.
Thus TCRG has continued to win major funding within research partnerships, including:
• SPECTRUM, funded by MRC and involving eight UK universities and Public Health England,
    Scotland and Wales, working within the UK Prevention Research Partnership (UKPRP); with
    TCRG partnered with Edinburgh in a £5.9m programme and receiving £485k.
• The STOP Project (Stopping Tobacco Organizations and Products), a new global tobacco
    industry watchdog funded by Bloomberg Philanthropies (total STOP investment of $20 million
    over three years): with TCRG partnering other international centres in Paris and Thailand and
    receiving £5,735k.
Over the past decade, Jawad has developed the MENA social policy network, with around 1000
members from academia and the policy world, and hosting the UNICEF database of MENA social
policy expertise. In association with this network, Jawad has won GCRF-AHRC awards totalling
over £2 million (2019-20 and 2020-23), concerned with social protection and conflict prevention,
and also involving Devine, Forrester-Jones and Walton.
Other examples of our many international research collaborations, winning major research grants
and producing scholarly and policy impact, include:
• Carmel as PI for the TRANSWEL project (2015-18), funded by the Welfare State Futures
   research programme of NORFACE: involving research teams across six other EU countries,
   investigating east-west migration and the portability of social security rights, within a tight
   overall theoretical and methodological framework: a budget of €1.2 million.
• Pinheira leads an interdisciplinary research project involving five universities across the
   Trans-Pacific region: funded by the Australian Research Council ($235,000 over three years)
   to understand how globalised economic growth is transforming lives among low-income urban
   communities in Mexico, the Philippines, China and Brazil.
• Rutter works with NGOs, sociologists, political scientists, systems dynamics modellers, across
   five European countries plus Australia, South Africa and USA: “Confronting Obesity: Co-
   creating policy with youth” (Horizon 2020, 2018-2023: €9.757 million).
The success of these collaborations is evidenced by the funding secured and the collaborative
publications they enable. More than two thirds of the outputs submitted for REF 2020 are co-
authored; and of these, almost a third involved our international collaborators.

   4.2. Engage with research users, beneficiaries or audiences in co-production
We engage with a wide variety of public, voluntary and private sector partners, in knowledge
exchange and various forms of ‘co-production’. These have enriched our research environment
and they shape our research priorities. It is also through them that much of the impact of our
research is mediated. These users are located at local, regional and national levels, and in a wide
range of countries; they include government decision-makers, professional bodies, NGOs,
pressure groups and consultancies.
Key examples include:
Within the local area:
• Skinner’s research into domestic abuse includes a Home Office funded evaluation of some of
   the local services provided by BANES. MRes and undergraduate student researchers are
   involved. So are local communities and the local (BANES) Domestic Abuse Partnership.

                                                                                           Page 15
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   Brown, Dickson and Rutter have been engaged by St Johns Foundation, an ancient local
    charity, to develop a programme of intervention aimed at disadvantaged young people in the
    city, worth up to £40 million over 10 years. This offers the University an opportunity to
    contribute to a significant project that could have a major impact on the lives of children and
    local communities.
Within the UK:
• Millar: The Advisory Group for her Universal Credit research project includes DWP, CPAG,
   Resolution Foundation, Equality and Human Rights Commission, Family and Childcare Trust.
• Rutter is senior strategic adviser to Public Health England, where he made a major
   contribution to the 2019 Public Health Green Paper; member of NHS Executive Net Zero
   expert panel; and member of the Scientific Advisory Council, Department for Digital, Culture,
   Media and Sport.
Internationally:
• Bloomfield’s work on global value chains has earned him increasing international recognition,
    as evidenced by invited talks, external networks, and external positions, including for the Food
    and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) and the ILO, as well as the UK Home Office and Chatham
    House.
• Lenner’s research on the changing features of German refugee policy in Jordan have since
    2017 been presented to Jordanian and other agencies active in the region, but also to the
    German development policy-making world including the German ministry for development
    cooperation.
• Jawad’s MENA research is supported by the Carnegie Corporation of New York. This includes
    a series of Policy Lab events in Cairo, with Forrester-Jones, involving state and non-state
    actors, discussing policy in relation to social policy design and data needs in Egypt. A public
    engagement partnership has developed with the British Council, across Egypt, Lebanon,
    Morocco and Dubai.

    4.3. Impact on public policy, economy and society
Section 1.8 referred to our four impact case studies. They span the main staff groupings in this
UoA – social policy, international development and tobacco control. There are many further
examples of how all areas of our research contribute to policy, economy and society.
Most of this impact is oriented to improvements in social welfare, health and wellbeing,
especially for vulnerable populations. These improvements may be sought through acting on
public policy, law and services, or by modifying production, commerce and the economy, or
through improved professional services, or by building lay people’s capabilities, in terms of their
understanding and critical participation from within their communities. (REF Panel Criteria and
Working Methods, Annex A).
Public policy, law and services:
•   Joining an Independent Review of the Mental Health Act commissioned by the UK
    Government; and working with the Chief Social Worker for Adults at the Department of Health
    and Social Care, to produce national guidance on safeguarding people with dementia (due
    2020) (Dixon).
•   Acting as Specialist Adviser to the House of Lords Economic Affairs Committee Enquiry (2020)
    on Universal Credit; presenting research to three DWP Universal Credit Analysis Division
    seminars; meetings with DWP Special Adviser to Secretary of State (May 2019), Gender
    Equalities Office (June 2019), DWP Labour Market division (July 2019) (Millar).
•   Presenting research evidence on the portability of social security benefits to the European
    Parliament, Petitions committee hearing (Oct 2016); and to the Platform for European NGOs
    working on Family (Carmel).




                                                                                            Page 16
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Modifying production, commerce and the economy:
•   Equipping public health authorities with the evidence to introduce plain packaging, despite
    tobacco company objections and obfuscations (Hatchard); also thereby exposing corporate
    efforts to weaken public health regulatory regimes.
•   Within the small-scale mining sector in West Africa, exposing the extraction of wealth by local
    elites and the hardship experienced by local people; but also demonstrating the scope for
    different modes of industrial governance, in cooperation with government and international
    agencies (Maconachie).
•   Working with multiple stakeholders in the South Indian garment industry, to co-create a robust
    research and impact agenda for ‘decent work’: businesses, government and civil society
    (including unions) in India, as well as UK brands like Primark and M&S, the Home Office, DFID
    and the ILO (Bloomfield).
Improved professional services:
•   Re-designing prisons in the UK, Ireland, Scandinavia and the Antipodes, to enhance prisoners'
    quality of life, reduce trauma, improve prisoner-staff relations, and assist the rehabilitation of
    offenders (Jewkes).
•   Demonstrating more cost-effective approaches for evaluating the impact of local activities by
    international development agencies, adapted to the specific context of each (Copestake).
Building lay people’s understanding and critical participation:
•    Working with faith-based organisations, to co-produce new practices within development
     settings, bridging Amartya Sen’s normative reflection on development and the Catholic social
     tradition (Deneulin). This involves in Catholic efforts in Latin America to address addiction
     recovery, urbanisation, the Amazon forest and the rights of indigenous peoples.
•    Engaging with community organisations in Mexico and Belgium, and moving from ‘anger’ to
     ‘hope’, so as to reframe the socio-economic and political significance of their endeavours; and
     contributing similarly to a reform of Amnesty International’s discourse on human rights
     (Dinerstein).
    4.4. Research engagement with diverse communities and publics
We engage with diverse communities and publics through our research. These include excluded
groups of people. This reflects our concern with equality and diversity and with discrimination,
identity and self-development. Our research contributes thereby to the building of more inclusive
institutions.
• Gearon, with the support of the Public Engagement Unit, has been running interactive
    workshops with trafficked young people, to use social media, radio and film to reach young
    people in the UK and abroad. She received the Vice-Chancellor’s Engage Award for this work.
• Research by Enria, Hart and Lenner on refugees has been key to Bath being designated a
    University of Sanctuary for refugees and asylum seekers in 2020, a recognition of our
    commitment to equality and diversity.
• Gooch’s research on prisons has through 2019/20 involved presentations to Prison
    Governors and Managers across Britain – eloquently praised by the Deputy Director of Prison
    Safety and Security Policy.
• Forrester-Jones’ research collaboration with the charity New Forest Mencap has explored
    the "looming crisis" of rising numbers of older carers, in the aftermath of austerity. The
    research was presented to major UK care organisations and the International Association for
    the Scientific Study of Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities (IASSIDD) World Congress.
One of the ways we engage with diverse communities and publics is through innovative use of
film, video and social media, supported by the University media centre:
• Manning’s research on ‘perpetrator’ histories in Cambodia involves participatory film-making,
     aimed at building ‘intergenerational dialogue and memory after genocide’. This also
     demonstrated how a GW4 Alliance grant with our south-west partner universities could build
     into a larger AHRC-GCRF Network Plus grant (2017-2021).


                                                                                              Page 17
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•    Walton researches the role of borderland brokers: political, military, business or religious
     figures who mediate between centre and periphery and/or across international borders.
     Presentation of the results includes public exhibitions and outreach events in the borderland
     regions concerned - included illustrated essays or ‘comics’, translated into local languages.
•    Maconachie’s film, “Voices from the mine”, relates to his research on artisanal mining in West
     Africa. As an innovative mechanism for public engagement, it has received awards from the
     British Universities Film and Video Council (BUFVC) for “Best Educational Film”.
•    The Open Democracy website Beyond Trafficking and Slavery (BTS) was co-founded by
     Howard and Thibos in 2014, to unveil the structural, political, economic, and social root
     causes of human trafficking and modern slavery.
    4.5. Sustainability of the discipline
We have a long history of contributing to the sustainability of the discipline, both nationally and
internationally, because its health and resilience are essential for our own work. We edit journals
and act as referees, serve as External Examiners and Reviewers of programmes, and we run
many international conferences. We are members of Research Councils and of our subject
National and International Associations.
Our contribution is recognised in many ways:
• Our leadership of the main national associations, the SPA and the DSA (Millar and White);
• Election to the UK Academy of Social Sciences: Devine, Millar and Room (as well as
   Emeritus Professors Ian Butler, Ian Gough, Tess Ridge and Geof Wood).
•   The Research Fellowships we have won, including for example:
    • Hart: 2018-201 British Academy Post-Doctoral Fellowship; Maconachie: 2016-17
       Leverhulme International Academic Fellowship to spend three months at the Liu Institute
       for Global Issues, University of British Columbia (Canada); White: 2016-17 British
       Academy/Leverhulme Senior Research Fellowship.
    • Post 2014 intake: Enria ERSC Future Research Leaders Fellowship (2016-2018); Howard
       ERC Starting Grant (2020-); Maitrot: ESCR Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF)
       Award; Proudfoot: British Academy Postdoc Fellowship (2019-2022); Wildeman: ESRC
       Post-doc Fellowship (2017-18).
•   Numerous prizes, including:
    • Jewkes: ESRC’s Celebrating Impact Prize 2020 for outstanding societal impact.
    • TCRG: the 2019 inaugural European Health Leadership Award, established to recognise
       ‘pioneering change makers who have shown transformative innovation and leadership in
       safeguarding or improving the health of people in Europe’
    • Millar: Foundation for International Studies of Social Security Annual Conference 2019,
       best paper prize (with Peter Whiteford); Social Policy Association/Cambridge University
       Press Award for Excellence in Social Policy Scholarship, 2018 (with Fran Bennett).
    • Moore: Winner of the 2019 International Crime Fiction Association Prize for scholarly
       contribution (for Detecting the Social); short-listed for the 2019 Sage Prize in Innovation
       and Excellence.
    • Rutter: European Society for Prevention Research: President’s Prize 2017
    ECRs:
    • Bloomfield: 2019 Finalist Best Paper Award, Social Issues in Management, Academy of
      Management Conference;
    • Lenner: BISA award for best article on the International Politics of Migration, Refugees
      and Diaspora, awarded Nov 2019.
    4.6. Responsiveness to national and international priorities and initiatives
We respond to national and international priorities and initiatives. We scan emerging research
and policy challenges and identify the strategic niches we might occupy, building and combining
our social science capabilities and mobilising external alliances.
•   GCRF was launched in 2017. As a UoA that brings together social policy and international
    development, we were well-placed to work with colleagues across the University, along with

                                                                                           Page 18
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    our networks in the global south. A number of GCRF-funded projects have been mentioned in
    these pages, with an aggregate funding value of £4 million. This will continue as a key focus.
     As DSA president, White secured funding from ESRC/GCRF for workshops on
     interdisciplinary research and north-south partnerships (2018-19), raising the visibility of DSA
     members based in the global south, especially Africa. The Deputy Head of international
     development at UKRI has been consulting White on implications for the future direction of the
     GCRF and how DSA might be involved.
•   Migration and the refugee crisis – especially but not solely in the Middle East - have been a
    major theme throughout this REF period, not only for colleagues researching the victims of
    these movements, but also those researching the response from the receiving countries.
    Carmel, Gearon, Hart and Lenner are among those driving a new ‘pop-up’ centre on
    migration and displacement (see Section 1.4).
•   This REF period also been marked by the UK referendum on EU membership. Working with
    the IPR, Room and Carmel have penned working papers and policy briefs on the causes and
    consequences of Brexit – but also the failed reform agenda of the European institutions, which
    in some degree precipitated this rupture.
•   Climate Change and the Environmental Crisis have moved centre-stage during this REF
    period. We contribute to the University’s strategic development of research and teaching on
    climate change. DSPS helped establish a COP21 academic forum across the University,
    following the 2015 Paris Climate Summit; the new Vice-Chancellor has made this a priority for
    the whole institution. CDS leads our research and teaching interest in this area; and we benefit
    from the path-breaking work of Emeritus Professor Ian Gough.
•   Austerity and the welfare crisis maintain their grim continuity with the past. Gregg has been
    a key figure in national debates on wage stagnation; Millar has continued her meticulous work
    on the UK benefits system and its losing battle with growing inequality; Forrester-Jones has
    mapped the negative impact of austerity on people with learning disabilities. This remains
    central to CASP – but also to CDAS, with Woodthorpe’s critique of funeral poverty and
    affordability.
•   During 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic has dominated national and international policy. This
    was unforeseen and underlined the need for agile flexibility and resilience. Our research
    response, described in Section 1.9, has been substantial.




                                                                                             Page 19
