Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Exeter

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 21 Sociology

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview

 UoA21 is principally homed in the Department of Sociology, Philosophy and Anthropology (SPA).
 Our research exemplifies the inclusive character of Sociology, as well as the potential for
 sociological approaches to combine with other disciplines. We preserve the insights of disciplinary
 ways of knowing – and promote these through our research-led teaching programmes - yet our
 innovative Research Centres and cross-cutting Research Clusters exemplify how we have
 established an intellectual domain with permeable boundaries. Since REF2014 we have continued
 our work with traditionally aligned HASS disciplines. Beyond this from of link, deriving from the
 Science and Technology Studies (STS) expertise of many staff, we have intensified our
 collaborations with those in STEM. Core to our vision has been the conviction that working at and
 across disciplinary edges provides a fertile ground for renewing scholarship within individual
 disciplines. Our approach ensures we address the complexity of major societal challenges
 associated with a wide diversity of topics including, artificial intelligence, evidence-based policing
 and agricultural policy.

 Key highlights in achieving the Unit’s REF2014 goals include:

       Recruitment of high-quality staff experienced in working across traditional disciplinary
        boundaries. Our UoA has increased from 25.4 FTE (REF2014 was 100% submission of
        eligible staff) to 49.6 FTE.

       The achievement of a gender balance in staffing, especially in our senior ranks (see 2.1).
        We currently have a negative gender pay gap.

       The establishment of a new stream of research on sociologically-led Criminology.
        Underpinning appointments include Boyd, Dymond, Massoumi and Schwartz-Marin.
        Boyd and Rappert have led establishment of a highly innovative Policing Lab that includes
        over 50 academics from across the University as well as local, national and international
        officers and staff.

       The diversification in external income success, including through industrial collaborations
        (e.g. Molyneux-Hodgson)

       The development of extensive international links (see Section 4, including Thomas’
        collaboration with WHO).

       Publishing extensively. 46 books (sole or joint authored/edited), 551 journal articles and
        172 book chapters have been published by UoA members over this REF cycle.

       Furthering support for the career development of our ECRs. This has led to a number of
        successes in our ECR community including former PhD student and now Senior Lecturer,


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Dymond. She won the 2018 ESRC Impact Prize for Outstanding Early Career Impact and
        also serves as the ECR representative to the ESRC Strategic Advisory Network.

 1.2 Background

 SPA is one of five departments within the College of Social Sciences and International Studies
 (SSIS) at Exeter, which itself is one of six Colleges at the University. In terms of managerial
 structure, the Department uses a Unit Consultative Group (UCG) consisting of the professoriate,
 Academic Leads (see 3.6 Institutional-Level Environment Statement (ILES)) and key
 representatives as the first line of discussion on departmental matters. Core administrative roles,
 including Director of Research (DoR) and Director of Impact (DoI), sit on College level committees
 and act as conduits for information exchange between Department and University structures.

 The Unit submission includes 5 staff (4 of them research-only) based outside SPA but linked
 closely through their research focus, senior SPA mentors and/or their involvement in our Research
 Clusters. Three of the 5 are members of the Wellcome Centre for Cultures and Environments of
 Health (WCCEH – see below).

 1.3 Research and Impact Strategy

 The strategic aims laid out for post-REF2014 were operationalised through the following
 objectives:

 1) Reconstituting 2014REF Research Groupings into Research Clusters

 All researchers in the Department (staff, research fellows, post-docs, doctoral students) are
 members of a Research Cluster. As further elaborated below, the Clusters serve as forums for
 discussing new projects and publications, aiding the DoR with peer review of grant applications
 and outputs, and supporting ECR development. Each Cluster has staff from our three core
 disciplines and in some cases includes participation from disciplines beyond our Unit. Many staff
 participate in the activities of more than one Cluster.

 Table 1: Research Clusters
  Name and Lead      Areas of Inquiry
  Science,           Researchers critically and creatively investigate scientific and traditional
  Technology,        knowledge practices. Particular attention is paid to the intersections of
  Knowledge &        responsibility, sustainability, expertise and power as they are mediated
  Power              by cultural, social and material processes. Environments & Livelihoods
  (SCIENCE)          and Philosophy of Biology are sub-groups.
  Lead: Michael
  Health &           Focuses on diverse aspects of human and environmental health,
  (well)Being        wellbeing, care and animal welfare; examining issues such as dis/ability,
  (HEALTH)           the meaning of life, chronic illness, loneliness, and the measurement of
  Lead: Schillmeier wellbeing. Sub-groups include Life Courses and Multispecies Interaction.
  Mind &             Situating ‘the mind’ in its broadest cultural context including
  Materiality        intersubjective interactions, sociocultural practices, and material culture
  (MIND) Lead:       is a key concern. Researchers share interests across questions about
  Colombetti


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                       the nature of the mind, consciousness, embodiment, emotion,
                       perception, memory, addiction and mental health.
  Culture & Ethics     Members examine culture in action, production of differences and
  (CULTURE)            otherness, and everyday ethics. Foci include conviviality and racism, the
  Lead: Tyler          life-worlds of local, national and European belonging as well as critical
                       analysis of forms of cultural production (such as art, food, music/sound
                       and literature).
  Inequalities,        Researchers deploy a range of theoretical and empirical approaches to
  Marginality &        the analysis of social relations and the production of inequalities and
  Resistance           forms of resistance. Topics such as educational disparities and social
  (INEQUALITIES)       movement alternatives are investigated using quantitative tools,
  Lead: Masquelier     ethnographies of humans and non-humans, and social and moral
                       critique.
  Crime, Violence      Focuses on practices of violence, including how it is defined, enacted and
  & Policing           re-produced. The intersection of violence and accountability is key: how
  (CRIME) Lead:        violence is rendered (in)visible, how violence and counter-violence
  Dymond               interventions are evidenced, and how redress and justice can be
                       promoted.

 All of our Clusters are underpinned by an ethos that promotes research ethics and
 research integrity, and by processes in line with the University’s commitment to the Concordat
 to Support Research Integrity (ILES 2.9). Our departmental Ethics Officer is a member of the
 College Ethics Committee. This Committee has the support of a university Research Ethics
 Officer. We are not only committed to furthering Open Access to our publications (3.2), staff in
 SPA have provided internal, national and international efforts to foster Open Science more
 broadly. For instance, Leonelli has played a prominent international role in promoting Open
 Science: acting as group leader within the European Commission’s Open Science Policy Platform
 (2016-2019); chairing Working Groups on FAIR Data, OS Skills and Education, and Future of
 Publishing; leading the Working Group on Open Science for the Global Young Academy (2012-
 2017); and serving on the Philosophy of Science Association’s Ad Hoc Committee for Open
 Access Monograph Publishing (2018-2020), among other activity. Leonelli also chairs the
 Research Data Management task force at the University, facilitating Open Science practices and
 ensuring our Unit is at the centre of supporting research culture. Our UoA is 100% ORCID
 registered.

 2) Fostering growth in centres of excellence

 SPA hosts two major University designated ‘Research Centres’ that are composed of core and
 affiliated academics across a range of disciplines.
       a) Originating in the ESRC Genomics and Society initiative from 2002, the Exeter Centre for
          the Study of the Life Sciences (Egenis) continues with internationally recognised
          systematic research into the ideas, practices and socio-political implications of modern
          biosciences – including the cognitive, biomedical, environmental and agricultural sciences.
          Egenis is Directed by Dupré and Leonelli, both of whom held 5-year ERC awards during
          this REF cycle. ECR appointments (e.g., Currie, Walsh, Wilkinson) have ensured
          sustainability of Egenis in cutting edge topics. Interdisciplinary engagements on topics
          from SCIENCE, HEALTH, MIND and INEQUALITIES clusters are evidenced by associated



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        outputs, staff involvement in STEM-facing Institutes at Exeter (3.2) and the range of
        collaborative activities undertaken by Egenis members (4.2).

     b) The Centre for Rural Policy Research (CRPR) joined SPA (from Politics) in 2017 to extend
        our competences in rural and environmental sociology. CRPR consists of a multi-
        disciplinary team of social scientists that contribute to SCIENCE, HEALTH, and CULTURE
        clusters. Staff focus on agri-environmental management and associated policy
        development and evaluation (Lobley and Winter), historical and contemporary agricultural
        change and restructuring (Lobley and Winter), knowledge controversies (Cassidy),
        livelihoods in food and agriculture (West and Lobley), artisan foods and cultural heritage
        (West) and land and sea spaces (Gustavsson). Alongside an extensive research portfolio
        (3.1), CPPR staff play an active role in the development of rural, agricultural and food
        policy (4.2).

 SPA shares leadership in two other major University designated and interdisciplinary ‘Research
 Centres’.

    a) The University Q-Step Centre is a collaboration with the Department of Politics. It was
       established in 2013 as one of the original Nuffield/ESRC/HEFCE funded initiatives to
       improve the quantitative skills base for social sciences. Exeter Q-Step recently gained
       partner status in the extended ESRC investment of £2.8m in the NCRM (2020-2024) and
       in that role will promote open access to methods training as well as training in the principles
       of reproducibility, transparency and data stewardship for PhD researchers. SPA staff are
       advancing topical work and methodological standards in relation to INEQUALITIES
       (Bessudnov in ethnicity, Playford in education), CULTURE (Elliott and Peri-Rotem in
       relation to Life Courses) and CRIME (Boyd and Dymond in relation to policing).

    b) WCCEH produces transformative and engaged health research. The Centre Director
       (Green), two of the three Co-Directors (Fitzgerald, Thomas), a Centre academic
       (Dolezal) and 2 research fellows (Jones, Poleykett) are associated with SPA. WCCEH
       provides a hub for post-docs (with 11 Research Fellows) and a vital basis for activities in
       the SCIENCE, HEALTH, MIND and INEQUALITIES clusters. Aligned to this, in 2016 the
       Exeter WHO Collaborating Centre for Culture and Health was launched (Thomas is co-
       director). In November 2020, WCCEH received an extension to funding (£1.4 million) to
       take forward a new research programme to include:

               collaboration with Egenis to establish the Exploring Society with COVID platform,
                based on existing strengths and the range of activity prompted from March 2020
                onwards;

               a research programme on the Healing City (Fitzgerald, Green);

               sustaining research in ageing and dying, and health across the life course (Elliott,
                Kavedžija) to link to a new University strategic theme.

 After REF2014, we invested in additional expertise in human-animal relations to build capacity in
 ‘more than human’ relations and with a view to developing this as a future centre of excellence.
 New research in consumption (Dugnoille) and inter-species politics (Cassidy) furthers the

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CULTURE, SCIENCE, INEQUALITIES and HEALTH clusters. Alongside this, Hurn leads the
 Exeter Anthrozoology as Symbiotic Ethics (EASE) group, founded in 2016 using a philanthropic
 donation of £750k to establish a research and postgraduate hub on human-animal interaction.
 West and Cassidy are in the University Centre for Human-Animal-Environment Bioarchaeology
 (HumAnE), with Cassidy now Co-I on a large interdisciplinary and multi-organisation Wellcome
 Collaborative Award as a result (2020-24, £1.4m).

 3) Promoting interdisciplinary interactions

 While reorganisation into Clusters has underpinned the practical and subject focused support for
 research activity, multi-disciplinary collaboration is promoted through Centres (as above) and
 through selected thematics, such as our cross-cutting expertise in Data Studies. Our success in
 this area is exemplified by a series of successful funded initiatives across SCIENCE, HEALTH and
 CRIME, including by Michael (Australian Research Council, 2019-21), Leonelli (Alan Turing
 Institute: 2019-22; ERC 2014-19), Schwartz-Marin (ESRC 2018-20) and Wilson-Kovacs (ESRC
 2018-21). Data in all its forms is of interest including, for example, the data generated and
 managed in other disciplines (e.g., Currie’s work with Archaeology). The (re)analysis of existing
 data sets (Green, Elliott), qualitative comparative analysis (Masquelier) and new approaches to
 mixing qualitative and quantitative data (Elliott) are each emerging areas of strength. Tempini’s
 appointment in 2019 is affiliated with the University Institute for Data Science and Artificial
 Intelligence (IDSAI) and will facilitate cross-University collaborations. Monday mornings normally
 figure the weekly breakfast meeting titled ‘Data Crunch’, which brings together SPA and
 University-wide colleagues (including from Maths, Computer Science, Business School) to discuss
 research and build links for medium and longer term grant opportunities. This informal group also
 enables PGRs and ECRs to discuss their work openly across disciplines.

 Discussion (and lively debate!) of topics is supported through a base of reading groups and
 seminar programmes that are aligned to our Research Clusters and Research Centres. Cognition
 and Culture (MIND), Science & Technology Studies (SCIENCE), Health and Wellbeing/Sociology
 of Covid (HEALTH), and the Egenis Research Exchange (SCIENCE) are the main reading groups
 and are usually coordinated by doctoral students as a professional development experience. The
 SPA Work-in-Progress meetings, Egenis Seminar Series (SCIENCE, INEQUALITIES), Q-Step
 Seminar (CRIME, INEQUALITIES), CRPR seminar (CULTURE, SCIENCE) and WCCEH seminar
 and workshop programme (HEALTH, SCIENCE) are the means through which internal and
 external speakers present and engage with Unit members. Both reading groups and seminars
 involve engagement across career stages and include devices to promote inclusion (e.g., PGR-
 first Q&A, PGR presentations).

 We tackle innovative approaches to methods using the triple disciplinary makeup of the Unit and
 the research thematics that go across staff’s work, inside and beyond our Department and College.
 Thus, we pursue new knowledge in, for example, quantitative methods, ontologies, co-creation,
 and mixed methods, in tandem with substantive interests (e.g., Tyler’s £750k ESRC project
 combining ethnographic and quantitative media analysis of identity and Brexit). There is also an
 emphasis on praxis: we research on methodological matters and actively seek to engage in
 practices that exemplify them (e.g., process-oriented methods (Schillmeier); speculative design
 (Michael); ‘extreme’ collaborations (Molyneux-Hodgson); appraisal, evaluation and policy
 development (Winter); and philosophy in practice (Leonelli)). Researchers actively contribute to
 academic debates about the meaning of disciplinarity. This is evident in publications such as

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Rethinking Interdisciplinarity across the Social Sciences and Neurosciences (Fitzgerald),
 Routledge Handbook of Interdisciplinary Methodology (Michael, co-editor), The Matrix of Stem
 Cell Research (Hauskeller) as well as journal editorial work (e.g., Interdisciplinary Science
 Reviews - Molyneux-Hodgson).

 4) Supporting early career staff

 Since REF2014, 20 staff have joined the Unit as new Lecturers. Under a revised University
 promotional framework (3.3 ILES), the initial probation period for Lecturers has been shortened
 from 5 to 3 years, with all staff supported to Senior Lecturer within 5 years. As with academic staff
 in general, early career staff are mentored by a senior academic (Academic Lead, AL) in relation
 to their publications and funding strategies. This mentorship is underpinned by University-wide
 procedures and training for ensuring research integrity (2.9 ILES).

 We support a thriving environment for ECRs through promoting intellectual exchange. Egenis, for
 instance, normally hosts 9 postdoctoral fellows at any one time and around 16 Visiting Associates
 per year. Egenis co-organises two biennial international summer schools (European Summer
 School for the Philosophy of Biology and the Ischia Summer School for the History of Biology).
 The Q-Step Centre runs a research seminar & training programme to allow non-Q-Step ECRs
 researchers to upskill in mixed and quantitative techniques.

 As a Unit we recognise that the appointment, mentoring and promotion of open and fixed term
 contract staff is of fundamental importance to ensuring the sustainability of our research
 environment. As with other academic staff, ECRs complete an induction process that signposts to
 information on HR policies and benefits, such as flexible working provisions, parental leave, and
 Equality and Diversity (see 3.4, 3.15-16 ILES). Academic Leads are appointed automatically and
 annual development reviews undertaken. Our Department’s structured support for ECRs has been
 underpinned by the University’s adoption of the 1996, 2008 and 2019 Concordats to support the
 career development of researchers (3.8 ILES).

 See Section 2.2 for a further elaboration of people development as it pertains to ECRs.

 5) Collaborating with non-academic partners

 As part of our ethos of seeking to address societal challenges through research that spans
 disciplines (see Section 4), Unit staff have developed extensive collaborations with non-academic
 partners. As detailed in this statement, staff such as Leonelli, Molyneux-Hodgson, Rappert,
 Thomas and Winter are immersed research projects with non-academics. As appropriate,
 collaboration is facilitated by a departmental DoI (currently Lobley). The DoI liaises with a College-
 level DoI (also currently based in SPA (Elliott)), support services in our College and in the
 University as whole (3.2) in order to support staff activities. Our impact strategy has been to
 support long-standing collaborations associated with senior staff, to encourage junior staff to
 develop their own non-academic links, and through supporting joint activities between junior and
 senior colleagues. Evidence for the last of these points is demonstrated by two of our ICSs led by
 a junior colleague (Dymond) but supported by senior ones.




                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.4 Strategy for Next REF Period

 Unit strategy is developed through discussion at UCG, annual review of individual research plans,
 SPA awaydays and participation in College-wide activity. From this, and building on our efforts to
 consolidate and selectively expand our research strengths, our triple overarching aims for the
 coming period are:

        To advance cross-cutting expertise that underpins our Research Clusters. More
         specifically, we have identified Data Studies, Infrastructures, and the Environment as
         areas to develop. The topics are both open to study from our constituent disciplines but
         also able to foster interdisciplinary connections between them. These areas of expertise
         will mean we are well placed to deepen our links with major science and engineering-led
         University research Institutes (3.2);

        To progress novel research practice by developing larger, cross-discipline, social science
         led research programmes with disciplines across our University and beyond. The 2020
         appointment of Molyneux-Hodgson to College Associate Dean for Research will further
         support SPA’s engagement with future institutional and external priorities;

        To sustain and renew our Research Centres in order to meet shifting societal challenges
         and a changing research funding context.

 We will achieve our aims through the following specific objectives:
    Maintain levels of individual and team funding applications across all levels (ECR to Senior)
        and improve quality through structured support and collegiate peer review;

        Expand our efforts to lead on internal, national and international efforts to promote Open
         Access, Open Data and Open Science;

        Make new appointments aligned with our strategy to foster cross-cutting expertise;

        Further diversify our funding sources through increasing collaboration with other disciplines
         and with external partners;

        Increase research activity at a global level, aided by a new role of Director for Global
         Engagement (Hauskeller) and working with the University’s Global Partnership team (4.11
         ILES).

 Further integration of impact activity throughout the research lifecycle will be achieved, through
 increased engagement with communities, pursuing strategic partnerships, and via a new
 Policy@Exeter initiative.

 To support our future research strategy, we are active in the development of a new R&I Strategy
 for the University, aiming to increase the visibility of our involvement in large institutional and cross-
 institutional research programmes.




                                                                                                    Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Section 2. People

 2.1 People and Recruitment Strategy

 Aided by institutional support for growth (25.4 to 49.6 FTE), our strategy has been to expand the
 number of staff in a targeted manner: a) to ensure resilience in our core research strengths; b) to
 reach into cognate fields and topics to enable growth in areas of interest; and c) to strengthen
 cross-disciplinary forms of working that feed off our constituent disciplines. The last of these was
 a continuation of the strategy emerging from REF2008 that had identified growth in capacity and
 strengthening cross-discipline links as priorities.

 Our growth has been rooted in an attention to equality and diversity concerns. For instance, the
 REF2014 included one full Professor that identified as female (DeNora) whereas this submission
 includes 8 Cat A female full Professors (Colombetti, DeNora, Elliott, Green, Hauskeller, Kelly,
 Leonelli, Molyneux-Hodgson). Table 2 provides an FTE breakdown of the 49.6 staff in our UoA
 by grade and sex. Half of our UoA (n=25) have non-British nationalities (including American,
 Russian, Mexican, and Israeli).

 Table 2: UoA Staffing
  Grade                     Ratio of UoA Staff       Female to Male Comparisons
  Professor                    15.1 : 49.6                     7.6 : 7.5
  Associate Professor           4.5 : 49.6                      3 : 0.5
  Senior Lecturer                16 : 49.6                      5 : 11
  Lecturer                       10 : 49.6                       5:5
  Research Fellow                 4 : 49.6                       4:0

 Strategic appointments at both Lecturer and Professorial levels enabled a reformulation of our
 Research Clusters to promote sustainability. Alongside, there have been some significant staff
 departures and retirements during the REF cycle (A. Kelly; Pickering; King; Inglis; M.
 Hauskeller; Müller-Wille). With some of these exits we have strengthened our research links to
 other leading Centres (e.g., HPS at Cambridge via Müller-Wille). We anticipate a small number of
 retirements in the short-term future and have succession plans in place.

 New appointments specifically enhanced sociological capacity in STS in 2016 (Molyneux-
 Hodgson, Michael) to take this research focus in new directions. A set of 3 appointments in
 Philosophy in 2018 has sustained capacity and strengthened specific foci across disciplines (i.e.,
 Walsh with history; Currie with archaeology; Wilkinson with psychiatry). Further appointments in
 sociology and anthropology enabled the strengthening of existing foci on food (West,
 Gustavsson, Dugnoille), wellbeing (Elliott, Kavedžija), and culture and conflict (Hughes). Our
 HEALTH cluster has been greatly enhanced by the addition of Dolezal, Green, Fitzgerald, Jones,
 Poleykett, Thomas and Wilkinson, linking sociology and philosophy approaches to health and
 medicine.

 The number of research-only staff has grown since REF2014, with 10 in 2014 and gradually
 moving up to 19 in 2019 (with 17 at Nov. 2020) in part reflecting success with independent
 fellowship competitions.




                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Only 3 of our Cat A submitted staff are on fixed-term contracts: Gustavsson, Jones and
 Poleykett, with each being mentored toward an open contract.

 2.2 People Development

 Activity in the Department that supports staff’s intellectual and career development is
 comprehensive and includes: organised training; an all-Department seminar series; Research
 Cluster meetings; topic-focussed reading groups; internal peer review of grant applications and
 draft research papers; formal and informal mentoring schemes and workload monitoring and
 action (e.g. cross-annual teaching compensation). The following points in this sub-section should
 be read alongside the financial and infrastructure support outlined in 3.2.

 At the Department level, the leadership team operate a range of support mechanisms. For
 example, the DoR conducts regular meetups with individual members of staff, supports induction
 processes for new staff, and provides on-demand advice to staff at all levels of career. The DoR
 hosts termly Research Away Days that both focus on a specific theme (e.g., writing cross-
 discipline bids) and provide a whole-department opportunity to discuss and embed research
 culture (e.g. recent news, emerging international collaborations, sharing stories). Away Days are
 also used to support research strategy development, ensuring all staff can take part in
 understanding how Unit level goals can be set and to input to priority setting. Developmental
 sessions for first-timer Principal Investigators provide a combination of advice, problem-solving,
 peer mentoring support and a social occasion (sessions take place in the form of an after-work
 ‘wine and whine’). The DoR coordinates peer review of grants and papers on an as needed basis
 and is responsible for holding discussions with individuals applying for specified funding schemes
 that require internal demand management. The aim is to provide a ‘wraparound’ support context.

 The HoD holds weekly drop-in sessions for staff and draws on an ECR Advisory group for specific
 issues as they arise. The HoD, DoR and Director of Education (DoE) work together to ensure that
 Department activity can be co-ordinated across areas of work (e.g., teaching loads, for example,
 are managed annually in response to individual progression requirements, research buy-out, and
 study leave). Workload management entails a rolling review of loads (averaged over 3 years) and
 can include reduction of teaching and/or administrative duties to ensure parity and facilitate
 research.

 Academic Leads (ALs) are responsible for conducting the annual development review (PDR) for
 individual staff. This process reflects on an individual’s past year goals and sets new aims for the
 year and medium term timescales. Following finalisation of the annual PDR cycle, the UCG (which
 includes ALs) convenes to discuss common themes and issues across the staff body and identifies
 any measures to be taken at department level or beyond (e.g., actions for the University
 professional development team).

 The organisation of department level support for people development operates alongside a set of
 structures, policies and resources provision at College and University levels. All new appointees
 undergo University and College level induction processes (3.6 ILES), dealing with governance,
 institutional decision-making, career progression routes and development support provision
 across various support services. The training and progression provision mobilises across all
 career stages, for example:



                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Early career academics have time allocated in the workload model to participate in the
        University Professional Development Programme (PDP) that supports new lecturers
        throughout their probation period. For new academics, the PDP structure provides
        guidance and targets and this segues into the PDR following confirmation of successful
        probation. This staff group are concurrently enrolled in the Academic Professional (AP)
        programme designed to lead to Fellowship of the HEA. Annual review and training
        contribute to a progression structure that is supported in the Department by the AL and
        wider leadership team.

       Established academics have access to a range of leadership and development provision
        provided by the University (e.g., The Leadership Difference; Purposeful Leaders).

 Support structures for research staff on fixed term contracts mirror those for permanent staff.
 Postdoctoral researchers are allocated a mentoring AL to provide guidance and conduct annual
 reflections, with wider career support being recognised as crucial. Postdoctoral staff are supported
 through Cluster meetings, formal mentoring, internal peer review and systematic processes for
 bid applications to facilitate progress towards research independence underpinned by research
 integrity. Similar developmental support is available to doctoral researchers and a good example
 of our environment is illustrated by our PGR cohort winning funding from GW4 Universities in 2019
 for workshops on Writing Ethnographically.

 The dedicated central university training and development programme for ECRs, which includes
 bespoke training support and Careers Coaching, is mapped against Concordat for Researcher
 Development and evidenced by HR Excellence awards (3.8 ILES). Researchers can access
 financial support for conference attendance, networking and external training. Where appropriate
 to career goals, researchers are encouraged to develop skills in workshop and conference
 organisation, social media management and other transferable skills. Researchers pursuing
 Fellowship positions (e.g., ESRC PDFs, BA/Leverhulme, etc.) receive support from their ALs,
 DoR, Research Services and the Innovation, Impact and Business Directorate (IIB – 3.2). College
 level provisions include hustings events and grant writing workshops. Where a researcher is
 aiming for an academic career, teaching opportunities are provided including student seminar
 leadership and lecturing. Researchers in SPA were central to the establishment of the HASS ECR
 Network in the university, bringing together a supportive network. ECRs also feed into the
 University-wide ECR Liaison Forums, via which they have formal representation and a governance
 role in the University.

 The structures and resources described above ensure that people’s development can be realised
 across different levels of support and intervention. We create an environment in which
 development opportunities are made available to everyone and aim to be responsive to needs as
 they emerge (e.g., grant management advice for first-time PIs was identified as one area in need
 of investment and the DoR constituted a support mechanism in response (3.2)).

 2.3 Research Students

 We have a vibrant and diverse community of PGR students who are integral to the research culture
 of the Department - we currently host 81 PGR students and this number has grown year by year.
 A total of 54 PGR students have successfully completed since 2013/14 compared with 42.9 in the
 REF2014 period. In addition to the UK, our students come from over thirty different countries. All

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 have allocated desk spaces in close proximity to academic staff and in all of the buildings in which
 Unit staff are housed.

 PGR recruitment is overseen by the Director of Doctoral Studies for Admissions (Colombetti) with
 responsibility for ensuring the quality and academic standards of the students recruited. Research
 students need a good first degree (a 2:1 or above), and a Masters level qualification in a relevant
 discipline (or evidence of comparable relevant expertise). Applicants need to submit a high quality
 research proposal, which together with indicators of past performance and an informal interview
 with potential supervisors, constitutes the main basis for the admission decision. Our recruitment
 benefits from the department being part of the ESRC South West DTP (SWDTP), the AHRC South
 West and Wales DTP (SWWDTP) and the UKRI Environmental Intelligence: Data Science & AI
 for Sustainable Futures DTC. Further funding options which the Department has secured include
 competitive University-level scholarships, such as the Global Excellence Scholarship.

 1) Training, support and collaboration

 SPA and University training for research students is extensive. Each student’s training needs are
 assessed by their supervisor(s) at the beginning of each year. Students are then directed to
 Masters modules and other courses they need to attend. The multi-disciplinary nature of the
 Department facilitates access to a wide range of different Masters modules. All PGR students
 have two supervisors, selected to complement substantive, theoretical and methodological
 expertise. This also facilitates staff collaboration. PGR students also have an independent
 academic mentor. An electronic system, MyPGR, introduced University-wide in 2010, is a shared
 record-keeping space. This is now a well-established tool and has enhanced the efficiency of
 supervision processes. PGR activity more broadly is led within the unit by the Director of Doctoral
 Studies (DDS) (Elliott). This includes regular PGR seminars where students present their work
 and gain feedback from peers. A staff and student postgraduate research conference organised
 through the SWDTP is held annually, run by the graduate students with support from their
 supervisors. In addition, each summer our SPA PGR students hold a two-day internal PGR
 conference, with funding support from the Doctoral College and the Department. This provides
 opportunities for students to present their work to a wide audience and brings in leading external
 experts to provide keynotes specific to the conference themes that the students have chosen.
 Additionally, students are empowered to develop their own responses to development needs. For
 example, in 2018 students established a series of varied disciplinary encounters (SPA responses
 to films addressing contemporary concerns), and in 2019 PGR students set up an anthropology
 reading group. PGR students are integral to Departmental research seminars and reading groups
 organised by Centres and Research Clusters. Indeed, our Sociology of Covid reading group,
 established in April 2020 is led by a PGR student (Buckler). Our Cognition and Culture reading
 group is jointly hosted by an academic and a PGR student (Colombetti and Sims) as is the Egenis
 Research Exchange (Leonelli and Jones).

 In line with ESRC/AHRC policy, our aim is to maintain an inclusive research culture, so that
 individual students feel part of a community of learning. The establishment of a Doctoral College
 across the University in 2015 has enabled significant enhancement of support mechanisms for
 doctoral scholars, alongside a series of campaigns and expansion of wellbeing services, and
 significant increases in training opportunities through a university-wide Researcher Development
 Programme.



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All students have access to library and ICT facilities. The unit provides equipment for data-
 collection and specialist software for quantitative and qualitative data-analysis (e.g., NVivo). The
 established Q-Step Centre and the new MSc in Policy Analytics (2017-) has increased the range
 of quantitative software and training available for students (including R and Python). There is
 dedicated desk space for students in Byrne House and Lazenby House, where Egenis and CRPR
 are located. These include social spaces for meeting and networking. The Forum Library was
 extended in 2012 as part of a £50m programme of building and refurbishment of student facilities,
 offering high quality study space to PGRs 24/7.

 2) Progress monitoring

 The establishment of the Doctoral College prompted an overhaul of the upgrade system (shifting
 from 18 months to 12 months) to assist in faster and more effective completions. All research
 students aiming for a PhD are now admitted as MPhil/PhD students: in order to have their PhD
 status confirmed, students submit a portfolio of work for feedback and assessment by a panel of
 two (non-supervising) academics. This portfolio is discussed in an ‘Upgrade Viva’ before
 completion of the first year of study. There is an Annual Monitoring Review system, so as to better
 capture the student experience and any difficulties or training needs which students may
 encounter. Towards the end of the study period, mock vivas are provided; notices of fellowship
 opportunities, follow-on funding, etc. are circulated, and SPA staff allocated to support
 applications.

 3) Outcomes

 Of the 54 PhD students completing during the review period, the majority have gone on to
 university posts. We have information about the destinations of 48 doctoral students, and of these
 34 remain in academia (6 in lecturing posts in the UK and 7 in lecturing posts internationally). A
 further 21 former students are now working as research fellows. Of those who have departed
 academia, five are working for NGOs, and six are in other professional roles including Social
 Scientist, at SCK-CEN, Belgian National Nuclear Laboratory (Hietala) and Senior Commissioning
 Editor at Wiley (Medical Education, Nursing, and Allied Health) (Watson).

 2.4 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 Our commitment to EDI is manifold.

 The University was awarded a Silver Athena Swan award in 2018. In terms of staff recruitment,
 we actively implement university-wide policies and processes designed to promote inclusivity and
 diversity (3.14-3.16 ILES). For instance, our academic recruitment panels are led by the HoD and
 other senior academics (such as DoR), but we actively incorporate ECRs to diversify perspectives
 and ensure appropriate gender balance.

 As noted previously, representation of women at the Full Professor level has dramatically
 increased since REF2014, with 4 of the new Professors promoted internally and 3 externally
 recruited. Leadership of research clusters (3 Female: 3 Male) and the team of Academic Leads (6
 Female: 5 Male) – the main route for staff mentoring and annual review – are evenly distributed
 by gender.



                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In terms of pay, across the SPA payroll, female staff are paid more hourly than males (6.5% mean,
 7.6% median).

 SPA is committed to improving its policies and practices with regard to other dimensions of EDI.
 Leonelli and Tyler play central roles in the Department, College and University Equality and
 Diversity structures, including the new University EDI strategy to cover 2019-2025. As part of this,
 they sit on the College’s EDI committee which is committed to analysing and addressing barriers
 to access/ inequalities across all aspects of the University. This Committee (which reports into the
 College Executive Group) meets monthly to progress the EDI agenda and ensure the College and
 the UoAs within it are achieving their EDI objectives in both teaching and research. From 2019/20
 the department meets to develop a strategy to decolonialise our research and teaching, including
 the exchange of useful resources and establishment of common guidelines.

 Dugnoille is a University Speak Out champion, to counteract harassment and discriminatory
 practices. Rappert has served as the UCU College representative for all but one year in the full
 REF cycle.

 In her new role as College ADR, Molyneux-Hodgson is leading on an anti-racism action plan and
 heading a cross-College working group to analyse and act on inequities in grant applications and
 awards across the entire University. This includes leading an institutional task and finish group to
 develop a stronger understanding of application behaviour by under-represented groups (and
 particularly how this has been impacted by Covid-19). The expectation is that this quantitative and
 qualitative analysis will ensure that support structures can be refined to ensure that they are
 accessible for all. The ideas and actions identified by the task and finish group will shape the
 research planning activity for the UoA going forward.

 SPA staff have also played a role in EDI within professional associations. Leonelli served as the
 Senior Co-Chair of the Women’s Caucus of the European Philosophy of Science Association
 (2015-19). In that role she introduced childcare at biennial conferences and inaugurated a keynote
 series specifically dedicated to EDI issues in philosophy of science at the 2016 EPSA conference.
 Massoumi is co-convenor of the British Sociological Association Race and Ethnicity Study group.
 In this role, she reviews proposals and makes funding decisions. She also runs a mentorship
 scheme for race and ethnicity scholars where support is provided to early career researchers
 through allocating senior academic mentors.

 SPA and the university as a whole (2.8 ILES) also regard Open Access to research publications,
 and Open Science more broadly, as important dimensions of inclusion and integrity associated
 with the academy (1.3).

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income, diversity of sources and income generating strategy

 To cultivate a strong research environment and support our research community, we have sought
 to both grow and diversify our research income. Even with Department expansion, 73% of staff
 have held external awards at our University during the REF period, across all career stages. The
 AL system, the nourishing research environment of reading groups, workshops and seminar



                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 programmes, the Cluster structure and peer-to-peer support all contribute towards a productive
 approach to income generation.

 For REF2014, the ESRC Egenis Centre funding served as the prime source of Unit income. With
 that funding ceasing in 2012, we engaged in a deliberate strategy to a) sustain but evolve Egenis
 as an intellectual centre and to b) diversify UK and non-UK income sources for Egenis and the
 wider Unit.

 In Egenis, Dupré’s ERC Advanced grant (2013-2017 - €2m) and Leonelli’s ERC Starting grant
 (2014-2019 - €1m) have provided foundational support for Egenis and its activities. Additional
 funding sources indicate the ability of staff to collaborate with the life and physical sciences, for
 example:
      Dupré’s ‘Representing Biology as Process’ AHRC grant (2017-2020) has Exeter biologist
        James Wakefield as Co-I

       Molyneux-Hodgson is Co-I on an EPSRC Advanced Fellowship on nuclear engineering
        hosted by University of Sheffield (2016-2021)

       Hauskeller was a co-PI in a team with 20 cardiologists from across Europe and 2 SMEs,
        on a €6 Million academic clinical trial (EU FP 7)

       Leonelli holds a £400k Alan Turing Project award (2019-2021) and is a Co-I to the UKRI
        Centre for Doctoral Training in Environmental Intelligence: Data Science & AI for
        Sustainable Futures (with the College of Engineering).

 The addition of a ‘responsible innovation’ strand to Egenis work has allowed external partner links
 to expand to include collaboration with academic lab spaces and the biotech industry (e.g.,
 Molyneux-Hodgson, Co-I DETOX (BBSRC: 2016 – 2021)). Such cutting-edge responsible
 innovation in practice projects produce impact across the sociological-technical divide (e.g., the
 ReAlChem project worked directly with a biotech SME (£285k, iUK: 2017-209). We are expanding
 work that reaches into novel or neglected spaces that require sociological (re)interrogation e.g.,
 the Nuclear Societies programme (Molyneux-Hodgson) ESRC, EPSRC, RWM, BGS: 2014 –
 2021.

 CRPR has sought grants and philanthropic funds from a diverse range of funding sources in order
 to ensure its long term viability. These include:
      DEFRA (e.g., the Sustainable Intensification Platform Project ‘Opportunities and risks for
        farming and the environment at landscape scales’ (2014-17, £2m))
      Wellcome Trust (e.g., ‘From 'Feed the Birds' to 'Do Not Feed the Animals'’ (2020-24,
        £1.4m)
      John Oldacre Foundation (The threats, challenges and opportunities for UK agriculture
        (£1million)
      EU InterReg (e.g., Biocultural Heritage Tourism (2018-21, £307k))
 Other sources of funding for CRPR include Natural England, EPSRC, NERC, and the Prince’s
 Countryside Fund.

 In line with our strategy to drive support for our ECRs, we have seen an outstanding pipeline of
 early career academics who have secured notable funding awards, e.g., Gustavsson (ESRC New

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Investigator Award), Dymond (ESRC Future Research Leaders) and Massoumi (British Academy
 Postdoctoral Fellow). As mentioned in Section 1, SPA staff now lead WCCEH and it recently
 received a funded extension for a new exciting programme of research.

 We were successful in winning three UKRI Covid-19 rapid response grants during the Spring 2020
 lockdown: Winter and Lobley are addressing how the pandemic has affected food systems; Tyler
 leads a mixed methods award on ‘Identity, Inequality, and the Media in Brexit-COVID-19-Britain’;
 Dolezal leads the AHRC rapid response award ‘Scenes of Shame and Stigma in COVID-19’ that
 will complement her new £1.46m Wellcome Collaborative Award (2020-2025).

 This overview of income sources and grant portfolio evidences the robust and supportive
 environment we have created for staff to succeed in pursuing their research questions.

 3.2 Infrastructure, funding and facilities

 SPA has multifaceted procedures and policies underpinning support for research activity. The DoR
 (including Kelly, Molyneux-Hodgson and Rappert in this cycle) manages the application process
 and structures support as needed. All applications undergo internal peer-review prior to
 submission. With particular emphasis on ECRs, the ALs and Research Cluster Leads serve as
 key sources of support for the review process as well as support for any subsequent steps of the
 award lifecycle (e.g., responding to peer review comments). These Leads also serve as important
 sources of assessment for internal demand management.

 For administrative support, we draw on the expertise of professional services staff in two University
 directorates (see 4.5 ILES). One is Research Services whose staff directly support our funding
 goals through providing advice and support in relation to proposal development, costings, funder
 criteria and other considerations. They provide intelligence on opportunities through devices such
 as the Research Toolkit (see 4.7 ILES) and monthly newsletters. They organise training for bid
 development, grant interviews, research impact and other aspects associated with grant
 applications through internal and external (e.g., Institute of Government) speakers. We also draw
 on the IIB directorate. It supports our external relationship building and non-academic research
 engagement activity. Each directorate provides a single point of contact for our Department. Both
 support teams contribute to post-award grant management (e.g., through financial reporting
 requirements and ‘impact acceleration’ provisions). Alongside the direct input from professional
 services teams, institutional structures to aid research activity are found at multiple scales within
 the university (see Section 4 ILES). For instance, the Funder Advisory Networks provides advice,
 training and review tailored to specific major funders.

 As part of our overall aim to promote joint inquiry with sciences, members of our UoA actively
 participate in major University research Institutes (1.3 ILES). For instance, Cassidy is a member
 of the Global Systems Institute (GSI); Dymond, Boyd and Peri-Rotem collaborate with the
 Institute for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence (IDSAI); Dupré had an embedded researcher
 based in the Living Systems Institute (LSI) building. SPA interactions with GSI are co-ordinated
 by Schwartz-Marin, who is the ECR rep on the GSI Management Board. Leonelli is Theme Lead
 for the "Data Governance, Algorithms and Values" foci of the IDSAI, and plays an active role in
 Institute management. She is also Co-I of the Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic Support Fund
 (supporting the Exeter Translational Knowledge Exchange, 2016-21) based at the LSI.



                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Numerous opportunities are provided to staff to assist new research ventures and to establish
 research networks within and beyond the UK, including:

    University-level provisions
    EU Facilitation Fund - to enable interactions with European partners and facilitate
    opportunities to join or lead EU calls for proposals. For instance, Molyneux-Hodgson’s
    facilitation grant underpinned a successful H2020/EURATOM project on medical applications
    of ionising radiation (2020-2023).
    GCRF Facilitation Fund – Rappert chaired the University-wide GCRF Strategy Group (2017-
    2019) that oversee this fund.
    Global Partnerships – funds are available for inbound and outbound academic travel to
    develop and expand relationships with world-class partner universities globally. SPA staff
    received 13 awards since 2015 to visit, and bring in, overseas researchers across Asia, North
    America, Europe and Australasia.
    ESRC IAA - staff have led 20 successful impact orientated projects with an overall total of
    £649k (featuring over £270k of ESRC funding). For instance, Boyd and Rappert secured a
    series of awards, including an IAA Strategic Award, to enable the University and Devon and
    Cornwall Police to establish and co-manage a fund that has supported six collaborative
    research projects between the two organisations.
    GW4 - Collaboration between leading research-intensive universities in the South West (Bath,
    Bristol, Cardiff and Exeter) are supported via the GW4 research alliance. Kruger, Glackin,
    Roberts, Fitzgerald and Rappert each been funded under GW4.
    Open Innovation Fund - Six SPA members have received awards totalling £16k to support
    research translation.

    College-level Provisions
    Research Centre Funds - Centres annually apply to College for devolved funds to support
    activity in a flexible way. For example, Egenis funds have supported speakers at the seminars
    series and group away days, as well as hosting 1-month Fellowships for ECRs from Eastern
    and Central Europe.
    Associate Dean Research Fund - Seedcorn funding to support the development of new
    research projects and collaborations that further the aims of College and Department research
    strategies are awarded competitively. In this REF cycle, Boyd, Currie, Dupré, Skidelsky,
    Hauskeller and Leonelli have won ADR awards.
    Individual Allowances – College allocates individual research allowances annually, usually
    around £1k for academic staff and £500 for post-doc researchers. Conference attendance,
    training events, professional fees, specialist publications and licenses, and travel to partners
    are common activities funded.
    Research Leave: Since 2014, Study Leave may be applied for every 3-4 years and this paid
    leave is normally for a period of 6 months. Periods of up to 1 year can be applied for on an
    unpaid basis. Applications for leave are reviewed annually following a call for interest and
    coordinated across the Department to ensure leave can be awarded in a fair and equitable
    way. At a strategic level, study leave is used to enhance the career development of
    colleagues, support expansion of research income, and cultivate the wider research
    environment. Staff whose leave coincided with the onset of Covid-19 restrictions experienced
    varying levels of impact on their anticipated leave plans. Difficulties were acknowledged within
    College and an analysis of study leave reports is being undertaken to clarify whether impacts
    were uneven from an EDI perspective.

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     Department-level provision
     Head of Department Fund - The HoD fund supports developmental initiatives (e.g., ECR
     writing workshops) and other one-off, urgent requirements (fieldtrips, transcription, equipment
     costs).
     Director Funds - The DoR and Director for Global Engagement have small amounts of
     devolved funds for Departmental level activity (e.g., Away Days).

 The breadth of financial support gives a secure base on which research excellence can be built
 and where individual researchers know there are ways in which their work can be supported to
 grow. Although in most cases the funds on offer are small, the range of provision ensures that
 activity identified at the ground level can be supported alongside the larger scale activities that
 have been targeted by University strategic priorities.

 Complementing the funding support, the dissemination of Unit research is facilitated by dedicated
 Library and Open Research teams. The teams provide staff with regular updates and with face-
 to-face and virtual training. The Green Open Access institutional repository - Open Research
 Exeter (ORE) – is managed by the teams and provides research data management services and
 access to three OA funds: the UKRI OA block grant, Charity Open Access Fund and the
 Institutional Open Access Fund. University memberships and 'offsetting' agreements (for journal
 subscriptions) allow Exeter authors to publish at reduced or no cost in selected journal outlets.
 Staff benefit from appropriately targeted support for outputs that have no other funding to pay for
 Gold open access. A ‘Request a Copy’ feature was introduced to ORE in late 2018 to facilitate
 requests from individuals without institutional access to papers. Our College has the highest
 volume of such requests (37% of total) across the University. In 2019, SPA had 17% of requests
 in the College.

 The University continues to invest in IT infrastructure and supports provision that enables those in
 Q-Step, CRPR and elsewhere in SPA to work with large data sets. University and College are
 investing £870,000 to refurbish and extend a campus building to include a new Computational
 Social Science Lab (CSSL). CSSL will contain 30 new high-performance computers to enable Q-
 Step to run advance training workshops, a speaker series and provide dedicated space for PhD
 researchers. A dedicated Linux server managed by Research IT has been configured to allow for
 several private and public-facing models and datasets to be developed and viewed, securely and
 independently. Additional investment has then allowed staff and PhD researchers to process data
 remotely on the server. College was successful in a bid to be part of the ESRC funded SafePod
 Network (a resource worth £25,000) and has invested an additional £100,000 to enable research
 with sensitive or confidential datasets.

 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The multiple disciplinary expertise of staff in the Unit has ensured that we are well placed to deliver
 outstanding contributions to economy and society both nationally and internationally. Our activities
 are enabled, in part, through our mentoring structures and workload citizenship allocation model
 (10% of staff time is dedicated to citizenship).

 This section outlines our key roles in major research networks and scientific organisations, our
 engagement with research users and audiences, and our contributions to the research base.


                                                                                                Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4.1 A collaborative approach

 Collaboration is fundamental to our Unit’s research vision that our constituent disciplines support
 challenge lead initiatives that work across HASS and STEM disciplinary edges. As part of our
 collaboration strategy, SPA staff actively engage with many of the flagship university STEM-facing
 Centres (1.3 ILES). For example, Leonelli leads the Values and Governance theme of IDSAI and
 Schwartz-Marin sits on the Management Board of GSI. We are supported in external
 collaboration through our IIB Directorate (3.2) which includes staff who broker partnerships with
 11 sectors. Alongside, Policy@Exeter is a new initiative to create a cross-university network to
 promote non-academic collaboration. SPA staff are actively engaged in these developments. By
 growing experience and expertise in cross-cutting areas (such as Data Studies – 1.3), we will set
 the foundations for further collaborations within and outside of our University.

 Selected examples of our collaborations are:

 Internal: West recently set up the Food Studies Network. Consisting of over 100 members from
 across disciplines, the network highlights the range of food-related interests at the University and
 raises visibility both within and beyond the University through seminars, workshops, teaching and
 joint research activities. The Network is open to academic support staff, post-docs, PhDs, PGTs
 and undergraduate students in any department/college on any of Exeter’s four campuses.

 Local: Following on from a £250k HEFEC/Home Office project, Boyd and Rappert secured
 agreement in 2017 with Devon and Cornwall Police (DCP) to house an embedded university
 Research Fellow (Dr. Dreolin Fleischer) at its headquarters in order to advance evidence-based
 policing and facilitate academic-police research partnerships. DCP has supported this work
 through over £50k of direct funding. Boyd and Rappert have worked together on several ESRC
 and internally funded projects to further support the collaboration.

 National: Public policy influence is exemplified by CRPR staff. Lobley is a member of Defra’s rural
 academic group and of the Defra/Natural England’s social science expert panel on Environmental
 Land Management schemes. The latter is also chaired by Winter, who plays a significant role in
 the policy landscape with Board memberships that include that of Natural England (a Secretary of
 State appointment), the UK Joint Nature Conservation Committee, Defra Nutrient Management
 Expert Group, Uplands Alliance Steering Group (Chair 2014-16) and Rothamsted Research
 (2015-). He was a Member of Defra’s Bovine TB Policy Review in 2018 (a Secretary of State
 appointment) and Visiting Wilton Park Programme Director of Food Security for the Foreign Office
 (2010-15).

 International: Members of SPA have engaged with a wide variety of stakeholders (see also our
 ICS). For instance, Thomas is Co-Director of the World Health Organisation (WHO) Collaborating
 Centre for Culture and Health (CCH - since 2016). In this role, she co-led the production of the
 WHO policy brief (2019) on cultural responses to anti-bacterial resistance and has since led policy
 and practice-facing workshops and reports in 2019 and 2020 on the cultural context of mental
 health reform in Central and Eastern Europe. In 2017, Thomas drew on her body of research on
 culture and health to co-author CCH policy briefs. Much of the work developed by the CCH
 programme, with WHO guidance and input, is now being replicated in the US through a
 collaboration between WHO, the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and a US-based colleague

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on the CCH expert advisory group (Ted Fischer). Building on her work on lay understandings of ill
 health and transnational health-seeking, Thomas was invited by WHO Europe Regional Co-
 ordinator for Public Health and Migration to produce a toolkit on Intercultural Competence and
 Diversity Sensitivity for public health officials and practitioners. She delivered training in the use
 of the toolkit at the Migration Knowledge Hub summer schools run by WHO in three consecutive
 years (2017 – 2019), each attended by over a 100 international practitioners and policymakers.
 The toolkit has since been developed as a WHO MOOC.

 Staff have held many visiting and honorary academic roles that have facilitated international
 collaborations, at times supported through internal funds (3.2). A non-exhaustive listing includes:
 Colombetti: Visiting Professor, National University of Singapore (2015), Visiting Professor,
 University of Southern Denmark (2018-2020), Visiting Professor, Centre for the Foundations of
 Science, University of Sydney (2014); DeNora: Visiting Professor University of Bergen (2018-);
 Dupré: Distinguished Visiting Scholar, University of South Florida (2015); Green: Visiting
 Professor, O’Brien Institute of Public Health (2018), Centre for Social Research in Health, UNSW
 (2019); Hauskeller: Visiting Professor Centre for Biomedical Ethics National University Singapore
 (2015), Visiting Fellow Hanse-Wissenschafts-Kolleg (2015), Visiting Professor, Tsinghua
 University (2014), Brocher Fellowship (2019); Krueger: Invited Research Fellow, Macquarie
 University (2018), University of Copenhagen (2017); Leonelli: Research Associate of the Info-
 Metrics Institute, Honorary Associate Professor University of Adelaide (2016-2019), Adjunct
 Professor, University of Adelaide (2019-2021), External Faculty of the Konrad Lorenz Institute
 (2019-), Visiting professor, University of Ghent (2018); Michael: Honorary Professor, University
 of Sydney (2017-); Rappert: Visiting Professor, National University of Singapore (2015), Visiting
 Professor, Linköping University (2018), Honorary Fellow, Institute for Security Studies in South
 Africa (2014-); and Winter: Visiting Researcher, The University of British Columbia (2018).

 4.2 Contributions to research, economy and society

 The Unit has sought to influence disciplinary and interdisciplinary research agendas. For example,
 staff take lead roles in editorial work at leading journals including: Cassidy, Reviews Editor for
 Public Understanding of Science (2009-2016); Colombetti and Kreuger, Associate Editors for
 Phenomenology and the Cognitive Sciences (2014-); Fitzgerald, Book Forum Editor for
 BioSocieties; Glackin, Associate Editor for British Journal for the Philosophy of Science (2019-);
 Hughes, Associate Editor Journal of Legal Anthropology (2019-); Lobley, Editor of the
 International Journal of Agricultural Management (2013-); Masquelier, Book Review Editor
 European Journal of Social Theory (2018-); Leonelli, Associate Editor (2014-18) and Co-Editor-
 in-Chief (2019-) History and Philosophy of the Life Sciences; Michael, Co-managing Editor The
 Sociological Review (2012-16); Schillmeier, Editor Space & Culture (2015-) and Thorpe, Co-
 editor Cultural Sociology (2020-).

 Staff have contributed to the maintenance of academic standards and supported intellectual
 innovation through their varied roles. Many staff contribute to grant assessment panels, including
 as Chairs, with leading national (e.g., UKRI, NIHR Public Health Research) and international
 (ERC, Health Research Board (Ireland), Luxembourg National Research Fund (FRN), Swiss
 National Science Foundation, Irish Research Council) funders as well as sit as Trustees, members
 of funding body councils and strategy committees (e.g., Foundation for the Sociology of Health &
 Illness (Green, 2020-), Luxembourg FRN (Elliott, 2020-); BBSRC Science in Society (Hauskeller,
 2011-17), ESRC’s Strategic Advisory Network (Dymond, 2019-).

                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 We have led national foundational interdisciplinary networks (e.g., Cassidy chaired the Science
 in Public Research (2014-19), convened national study groups (e.g., Masquelier, BSA Social
 Theory Study Group (2017-20) and coordinated conference agendas (e.g., Massoumi, BSA
 Annual Meeting Race, Ethnicity and Migration Stream (2019-21)).

 The expertise of staff is externally recognised through invited participation in numerous
 international advisory boards and steering groups. This includes European bodies, e.g., the
 Steering Committee for the Nordic Network for Gender Body and Health (Dolezal, 2015-); the
 Central Ethics Commission Stem Cell Research in Germany (Hauskeller, 2014-2022); German
 Academy of Sciences, Leopoldina, Working group on Brain Organoids (Hauskeller 2019-2021),
 International Review Board for Australian Medical Research Future Fund 10-year Strategy
 (Hauskeller 2020); and Elected member of Governing Board for 'Science Europe' (Elliott, 2014-
 2017).

 Staff also hold significant professional leadership positions. Dupré is Vice-President and President
 Elect of the global Philosophy of Science Association (President from 2021) as well as Chair of
 the Nuffield Council on Bioethics Working Group on Genomic Editing of Farmed Animals. Krueger
 is Vice President of the European Philosophical Society for the Study of Emotions; and Leonelli
 is Vice-President of the European Philosophy of Science Association (2019-2022). In 2017-18,
 Molyneux-Hodgson helped to establish, and was elected Founding President in 2019, of
 European Platform for social science and humanities researchers on ionising radiation (SHARE).

 Staff at all career stages contribute externally. For example, while Dymond only started as a
 Lecturer in 2017, she now holds a variety of appointments: Her Majesty’s Inspectorate of the
 Constabulary External Reference Group (2020-), the National Police Chiefs' Council and College
 of Policing's Personal Safety Strategic Committee (2019-), College of Policing's Curriculum
 Development group (2018-), the College of Policing’s Guideline Review Committee (2016-) and
 she is a member of the United Nations Human Rights Guidance on Less Lethal Weapons in Law
 Enforcement group (2017-).

 Methodological and substantive expertise is shared widely in academic and non-academic circles.
 For instance, Elliott chairs the Advisory Board for the Cathie Marsh Institute at the University of
 Manchester (2019-) and was a member of the core group advising the ESRC on implementation
 of the Longitudinal Studies strategy (2018-19). Peri-Rotem is on the expert advisory panel for the
 Office of National Statistics’ National Population Projections (2019-). Green is on the Scientific
 Advisory Board for the NIHR Policy Research Unit in Behavioural Science (2019-), served as a
 member of the MRC Uganda Research Unit on AIDS Scientific Advisory Committee (2015-18) and
 the SUSTRANS London Policy Advisory Group (2019-20), and is a member of the International
 Scientific Advisory Group of the O’Brien Institute for Public Health at the University of Calgary
 (2017-). Hughes is a member of the Publications Committee of the Royal Anthropological Institute
 (2019-). Kavedzija is a member Medical Anthropology Committee of the Royal Anthropological
 Institute (2018-). Thomas has served on WHO Europe Advisory Boards on Health (2016-19), and
 the Knowledge Management Committee for the Knowledge Hub on Health and Migration (2017-
 18). Rice is the Ethics Specialist on the Animal Welfare and Ethics Committee for the Wildfowl
 and Wetlands Trust (2020-). Wilson-Kovacs is a member of the Digital Research Working Group
 of the National Police Chiefs Council (2018-).



                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 As part of our impact strategy, staff in SPA have engaged both research governance and public
 policy communities through directed publications. Winter, for example, has written Policy into
 Practice notes for Defra Sustainable Intensification Research Platform and for the Defra
 Demonstration Test Catchment programme. Leonelli, Molyneux-Hodgson and Hauskeller
 publish in scientific journals to reach technical audiences (e.g., outlets include Journal of
 Experimental Botany, Nature, Data Science Journal, Nature Plants, The Biochemist).

 Leadership in research is acknowledged externally through the winning of prizes. For example, in
 2019 Currie won the Fernando Gil International Prize for Philosophy of Science, the first time the
 biennial prize was awarded to an early career lecturer. The preceding year, Leonelli won the
 highly prestigious Lakatos Award for outstanding contributions to the philosophy of science. This
 followed her winning the Académie Internationale de Philosophie de la Science “Talented Young
 Italians” Award for Research and Innovation in 2017. Other prizes have included: Fitzgerald:
 Philip Leverhulme Prize in Sociology (2017); Kavedzija: Society for Humanistic Anthropology,
 Ethnographic poetry first prize (2019); and Kelly: Sociology of Health and Illness book prize, the
 highest award for a book prize in medical sociology in the UK (2017).

 As other notable professional achievements, DeNora was elected Fellow of the British Academy
 in 2018; Dupré as Fellow of the American Academy of the Arts and Sciences (2020); and Elliott
 received the C.B.E. in the 2020 New Year Honours for services to social sciences.

 Engaging with publics

 SPA staff play leading roles in public engagement and engaged research both nationally and
 internationally. For example, CRPR members have spoken at conferences organised by The
 National Trust, The Wildlife Trusts, Farmers Weekly and the National Farmers Union. Lobley has
 served as a Member of the Heart of the South West Rural Growth Network Management Board
 (2012-16), a Board member of Devon Wildlife Trust (2009-2018), and as a judge for the Devon
 Rural Housing Awards (2014-), demonstrating how our research is often intimately tied to our
 locale and its priorities. The CRPR Distinguished Public Lecture series hosts incoming talks given
 by policy makers, media commentators and practitioners as well as prominent academics. CRPR
 staff took a lead at the Exeter Festival of Southwest Food and Drink in the organization of a food
 film series, public talks and roundtable discussions.

 As part of her iUK-funded collaboration with a biotech company, Molyneux-Hodgson organised
 activities at the 2019 Oxford Science Festival (based around scientific controversies for adults and
 a 2ft hairy microbe for children). She also participated in a 2015 Biology Week event hosted by
 The Royal Institution to debate synthetic life (400 members of public attended live; 21k views on
 YouTube).

 Exeter encourages ‘engaged research’ as a form of research practice (ILES 2.5) and the Unit
 maintains structures to support this aim. For instance, as a way of building up research
 collaborations, WCCEH funds small scale ‘Research Initiation Awards’ for individual applicants
 and community organisations outside of academia.

 One of the major sources of our innovative approach has been through our engagement with the
 art and museum sector. For example, Michael contributed to the exhibit 'the Energy Babble' that
 appeared at Miller Gallery (USA) and Griffith University Art Gallery in 2016 with the aim of

                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 introducing publics to new design practices. In 2016, Rappert co-curated an exhibition titled
 ‘Poisoned Pasts’ on the Apartheid chemical and biological weapons programme that was
 displayed at the Nelson Mandela Foundation and the Steve Biko Centre in South Africa. Art work
 produced by artist Gemma Anderson, Co-I on an AHRC award to Dupré, has been displayed at
 Zentrum für Kunst und Medien Karlsruhe and Camden Art Centre. As part of a Marie Skłodowska-
 Curie Intra-European Fellowship, in 2015 Toon curated an exhibition titled “Scientists as cyborgs”
 at the University of Exeter. Staff regularly collaborate with regional institutions such as Exeter’s
 Royal Albert Memorial Museum: in 2020, CRPR collaborated with the curator to put on an event
 to discuss food-related objects in the Museum’s collection.

                                                ***

 Overall then, our record of achievements set out in this Environment Statement illustrates how we
 have maintained and enhanced the vibrant and socially engaged culture set out as part of
 REF2014. Our ability to grow as a unit, to secure research income from diverse sources, to nurture
 early career researchers and to collaborate with others to shape policy developments mean we
 are well placed to respond to future research opportunities and challenges.




                                                                                             Page 22
