Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Institution: Swansea University
Unit of Assessment: 09 Physics

Section 1: Unit Context and Structure

1.1 OVERVIEW OF DEPARTMENT STRUCTURE
The Department of Physics at Swansea University is a rich, integrated, and connected research
ecosystem encompassing the core activities of the modern discipline with considerable
interdisciplinarity across science, engineering, and medicine. The research portfolio
encompasses a balance of experiment and theory, ranging from fundamental studies such as
elucidating the properties of matter and antimatter and the origins of the universe, to applying
knowledge to solve societal problems, including developing materials for clean energy or
spectroscopic biomarkers for cancer and dementia. Our research fuels and benefits from close
connectivity with regional, national, and international partners from industry, government, the third
sector, academia and our local community including NHS Wales. The Swansea Physics 2020
Research Environment has evolved with deliberate strategic intent from REF2014 and delivers a
modern vision of the discipline, supporting undergraduate and graduate training, delivering high
quality research with impact across physics and beyond, addressing societal challenges and
serving the community.
The Department has 26 (25.2 FTEs) category-A academic staff. There has been an increase of
over 30 research and academic staff 2014-2020. The research portfolio (Figure 1) is arranged
into three groups with distinct but complementary activities.




                                                                                                   1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Figure 1. The Department comprises three interconnected groups with strong links to cognate
disciplines across the University, as well as CERN, NHS Wales, SuperComputing Wales and
regional, national, and multi-national companies. Community engagement and communication
are facilitated by Oriel Science, and impact through start-up and commercialisation outputs.
Particle Physics and Cosmology Theory (PPCT): an established group with activities in
quantum field theory, lattice quantum chromodynamics, and theoretical cosmology with the aim
to uncover fundamental descriptions of matter and forces at the smallest length scales, and
exploiting developments in high-performance computing, data science, and machine learning.
Atomic, Molecular and Quantum Physics (AMQP): a core group focusing on antimatter
physics, including a major presence at CERN in the ALPHA collaboration, and specialist local
facilities such as the slow positron beamline, which has recently expanded activities into laser
physics, optomechanics and quantum control.
Applied Physics and Materials (APM): an expanding group with activities encompassing
Sustainable Advanced Materials (Sêr SAM), semiconductor physics and medical spectroscopy.
There is considerable overlap between these activities driving intra- and inter-department
collaboration across the University (e.g., SPECIFIC in Engineering, CanSense in Medicine), and
a large external partner base including regional and national industry.
Physics is one of six departments in the College of Science and benefits from pooled resources
for finance, administration, technical and research support. Further operational support is
provided by considerable programmatic funding (see 1.2). Departmental research governance
is managed though representation on the College Research Committee. Likewise, postgraduate
research training and progression is overseen by the College Post-Graduate Research (PGR)
Committee with a Physics PGR Director (see 2.2).
1.2 EVIDENCE OF ACHIEVEMENT OF STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES OF REF2014
In accordance with the vision set out in REF2014, the Department has implemented a co-
ordinated strategic plan with the following objectives:
OBJ1: Increase the quality and scale of research in existing core areas (PPCT and antimatter).
OBJ2: Diversify research with a focus on applied physics (APM).
OBJ3: Drive multidisciplinary research and closer engagement with industry.
Table 1 provides a ‘snapshot’ of the Research Environment 2014 versus 2020 highlighting
progress in achieving these objectives.
OBJ1 PPCT’s activities have expanded dramatically through new staff appointments and
fellowships (See sections 2 and 4). New research areas including high-performance computing
and AI have enhanced and diversified grant capture (e.g. Science and Technologies Facilities
Research Council [STFC] Consolidated Grant, Laser Interferometer Space Antenna [LISA]
Consortium). The award of two Centres for Doctoral Training (CDT) has doubled postgraduate
studentships: the STFC CDT in Data-Intensive Science currently funds 20 PhD students in
particle physics, astronomy and cosmology at Bristol, Cardiff, and Swansea; and the Swansea-
led UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) CDT in Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning &
Advanced Computing (AIMLAC) will train 55+ PhD students at Swansea, Cardiff, Bristol,
Aberystwyth and Bangor. Both CDTs are supported by multiple industrial partnerships (OBJ3).
Table 1: Swansea Physics Environment 2020 vs 2014 shows progress on REF2014 objectives.
 Metric                                REF2014     REF2021          Increase
 Cat-A Academic Staff (FTE)            21          25.2             20%
 Research Staff (FTE)                  15          27               80%
 PhD's Awarded (REF4a)                 31          50               61%
 Cat-A/research/ PGR staff (New Areas) 0           6/9/22           N/A
 Grants Awarded                        £13.2M      £22.5M           70%
 Research Income (REF4b)               £ 9.1M      £11.9M           30%




                                                                                              2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research Income In Kind (REF4c)            £108K         £1.26M             Significant
                                                                             Increase
 Publications (Nature Suite)                ~520 (2)      >800 (18)          >55% (9x)
 Industry Partners                          5             >50                10x
 Grant Funding Bodies                       ~5            20                 4x
Antimatter research has flourished as the ALPHA experiment transitioned to its exciting delivery
phase, supported by numerous Royal Society, Leverhulme and Visiting Fellowship Awards, and
considerable Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) grant income (total
~£10.5M). This scaling of activity is reflected by research outputs of over 50 high quality journal
papers including 10 Nature Suite. The group’s international prominence is highlighted by it being
featured in ‘Pioneer 14’, the EPSRC's 20-year celebration publication.
OBJ2. Three academic staff were appointed to AMQP in the expansion areas of laser physics,
optomechanics and quantum control. A European Research Council (ERC) Starter Fellowship
has enabled AMQP to consolidate existing EPSRC funding and tap into new sources including
Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Activity (IARPA), ERC and national facilities such as
the Diamond Light Source. This expansion activity has resulted in considerable grant income
(>£1M) and publications in high quality international journals.
An important achievement has been the creation of the APM group, which has grown to six
academic staff, eight research staff and 22 PGR students (10 completed, 12 current), fuelled by
the award of a Sêr National Chair and Rising Star Fellowship within the ~£6M Sêr SAM
Programme Grant (ERDF 2017). This funding has enabled the deployment of experimental
facilities for electro-optical materials and devices, and had led to 47 journal publications (since
2017) including eight in Nature and Science suites and over £50M in grants awarded. Group
members are investigators on grants from diverse sources (Industry Strategy Challenge Fund
(ISCF), EU, EPSRC Programme and Strategic Equipment, Research England, industry) and
fellowships (COFUND, 1851). Biomedical research in APM, focused on development of new
methods to positively impact healthcare (OBJ3), has also expanded. These activities have
benefited from the award of several fellowships (Royal Society, Institute of Physics [IOP] and
have attracted funding from diverse sources (EPSRC Platform, EU Networks, Cancer Research
Wales & UK, NHS). Impact from this research has been significant (1.3) with the ‘cancer diagnosis
using Raman spectroscopy’ project receiving multiple awards (e.g. Research Excellence in the
NHS Award) and the subject of commercialisation.
OBJ3 Multidisciplinarity. Growth and diversification have been accompanied by significant
expansion of multidisciplinary activities in AI and high-performance computing; next generation
semiconductors with applications from solar cells to bioelectronics; and biomedical research from
bio-photonics to Raman spectroscopy to MRI. Evidence of maturing impact includes:
 Publications in physics, maths, chemistry, computer science, engineering, materials science,
  and biomedical journals.
 Large-scale patient trials of a blood test for colorectal cancer in 35 GP surgeries across Wales
  and Good Clinical Laboratory Practice Accreditation for the Centre for Nanohealth.
 Increased participation and grant capture in multi-institutional programmes such as EPSRC
  Program Grants, EU Networks, ISCF Strength In Places Fund (SIPF) and CDTs.
OBJ3 Industry Engagement. Increased multidisciplinarity has driven a natural expansion of
industrial partnerships. Tangible examples include: 12 industrial co-investment partners in the
Sêr SAM-led initiative Centre for Integrative Semiconductor Materials (CISM); six industry
partners in the Cardiff University-led ISCF CS Connected SIPF project; 11 industry partners in
the Swansea-led EPSRC Program Grant on Application Targeted Integrated Photovoltaics
[ATIP] (Sêr SAM, SPECIFIC IKC); and partnerships with Renishaw and Siemens in the
development of biomedical imaging and spectroscopy.
The aggregated impact of this progress and growth can be seen in key metrics. For example,
during the census period the Department’s research grant expenditure has increased by 71% (by




                                                                                                 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

value) and the PGR cohort doubled. The Department’s research output surged to >800
publications (18 Nature suite) with a field-weighted citation impact score of 1.8, i.e., 80% above
the global average, 194 (24.2%) of which are in the top-10% of most-cited publications, and 437
(64.6%) in the top-10% of journals according to CiteScore. The enhanced research environment
has been a catalyst for interdisciplinary, international, and industrial collaboration with 54.8% of
outputs involving international collaboration (citation impact 114% above the global average) and
67 outputs involving industrial partners. In summary, clear objectives and a coherent strategic
plan (1.3) flowing from REF2014 have driven substantial enhancement of the UoA9 research
environment at Swansea, which has created a more sustainable Department and improved the
quality and breadth of undergraduate training.

1.3 RESEARCH AND IMPACT STRATEGY

1.3.1   Overall Research Strategy (Figure 2).
Drawing a baseline to REF2014, the core strengths of UoA9 at Swansea were Particle Physics
and Cosmology and theoretical and experimental efforts in Antimatter. Arguably, this was too
narrow a focus for a modern physics discipline, limiting scope for industrial engagement and
broader multi-disciplinary impact. The overall Research and Impact Strategy for the UoA was
thus to protect and grow the core while sustainably diversifying. This vision is reflected in the
objectives OBJ1-3 (stated in 1.2) and underpinned by specific goals with targets relating to
research capacity, funding, outputs and impact, and broader engagement. As described in 1.2
and illustrated in Table 1, these goals have been achieved and largely exceeded.
1.3.2   Specific Research & Impact Strategies
A portfolio of strategies were implemented during the census period to drive delivery of these
goals, support multidisciplinary and enhance impact and engagement:
   I.   Strengthening core groups with targeted academic appointments and a coherent
        Fellowship strategy, yielding expansion in new directions in PPCT (cosmology and
        gravitational wave astronomy) and AMQP (lasers, optomechanics and quantum control).
  II.   Creating the APM group through major external programmatic funding (Sêr Cymru) and
        joint and visiting appointments.
 III.   Pursuing multidisciplinary partnerships to diversify and increase the funding base and
        deliver impact outside the UoA (ISCF, SIPF).
 IV.    Enhancing industry engagement with regional and national stakeholders (e.g., the South
        Wales semiconductor industry) and collaborations with industry-facing programmes within
        Swansea such as SPECIFIC.
  V.    Promoting impact-focused commercialisation efforts through industrial fellowships, seed
        corn funding (e.g., SURGE, see REF5a, Sec 2.5) and innovation training (see 2.1).
 VI.    Increasing graduate student numbers and quality (see 2.2) via a focus on forthcoming
        CDT opportunities and regional industry studentships such as Knowledge Economy Skills
        Scholarship (KESS).
VII.    Continuous monitoring of progress versus targets and transparent communication on
        matters such as REF preparations.
VIII.   Building of Departmental cohesion, identity and focus by promoting inter-group
        collaborations, joint seminars, and journal clubs, undergraduate PhySoc, etc.

1.3.3   Contribution of and Rationale for Impact Case Studies.
The UoA9 Impact Case Studies reflect the progress made in diversification and increased
engagement during the census period:
1. Raman Spectroscopy diagnostic application to colorectal cancer (APM): A blood test to
   replace a significant number of colonoscopies as a first stage screening tool for colorectal
   cancer. Trials involving several thousand patients are already underway and a start-up
   company has been running since 2018 (CanSense).




                                                                                                  4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

2. BSMbench (PPCT): A software suite that measures the speed of high-performance computer
   equipment to enable both vendors and buyers to assess different machines and see which are
   best value for money.
3. Oriel Science (Cross-departmental, including the ‘Wales at CERN’ programme from AMQP):
   Oriel Science showcases Swansea’s research in the community to extend the educational
   horizons of the Future Generation. It has been involved with 100 events and engaged with
   over 150,000 people since 2016.
These Studies exemplify the broad scope of the Swansea Physics 2020 Research Environment
including our close industry engagement and connectivity with the public and other stakeholders
such as the NHS. All three research groups are represented in the Studies, a clear indicator that
the UoA has achieved its vision of a balanced and diverse portfolio.
1.3.4   An Open Research Environment
In addition to delivering impact, engagement and interdisciplinarity, the above strategies were
also designed to provide a framework for an open research environment built on transparency
and flexibility, compliant with the EU plan-S open access agenda, specificially:
i) Ensuring access to the UoA’s research for a wide range of stakeholders by implementation of
   open access publication requirements via institutional repositories (CRONFA) and pre-print
   archives [Strategies III-IV].
ii) Providing an adaptive environment able to respond to changing opportunities, with two-way
    communication between the UoA and internal and external stakeholders [Strategies III-VI];
iii) Promoting clear communication of progress and strategies and sharing of collective
     responsibilities and rewards [Strategies IV, VII and VIII].
   Research staff have ORCID IDs, and are encouraged to have GoogleScholar profiles, post
   preprints to open-access repositories (arXiv, ResearchGate, Academia, etc.), and publish
   datasets and code via appropriate repositories from FigShare to github.
1.3.5   Reproducibility, Responsible Research & Innovation (RRI) and Ethics
As described in REF5a Swansea University has developed a comprehensive Research Integrity
Policy Framework which outlines the institutional approach to research integrity and provides the
underpinning policies on governance. The Department has adopted these institutional principles
with a view to creating an open and informed environment. Additional elements of the UoA9
Research Environment that overlay these institutional responses include:
 Mandatory training for all research active staff and PGR students
 Implementation of Transparency and Openness Criteria by Centre for Open Science
 Maintaining data redundancy to protect against loss or corruption of data
 Inclusion of research materials in institutional repository of outputs alongside research articles
  to ensure authors receive proper credit for all intellectual contributions
 Completion of ethics forms for all projects and plagiarism analysis in written reporting such as
  journal papers and PGR theses.
A particular feature of UoA9 during the census period has been a widening of the research
portfolio into areas with diverse ethical and RRI considerations – for example medical trials, large
multi-disciplinary programmes, and projects with considerable industry content. This will continue
to require the principles outlined above to be firmly embedded in the UoA9 Research and Impact
Strategic Plan.




                                                                                                  5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 2: Research and Impact Strategy showing the clear relationship between initial objectives
and 2020 outcomes using Institutional, Departmental and Group-level strategies.

1.4 FUTURE STRATEGIC AIMS AND GOALS FOR RESEARCH & IMPACT
The UoA’s Research and Impact Strategy 2020–2025 builds upon the substantial achievements
described in 1.1 - 1.3 with the overall aim of exploiting the maturing, diversified research activity
to deliver enhanced impact. The specific objectives for the forward Strategic Plan are:
OBJ1N: Create new, internationally-significant research infrastructure in key areas.
OBJ2N: Deliver major new research programmes in all areas (EPSRC Programme Grants, STFC
Consolidated, ALPHA, CDTs).
OBJ3N: Drive impact through commercial and industry-focused activities (CanSense, SIPF, ISCF
Driving the Electric Revolution [DER]).
These objectives will be addressed by a major restructuring of the University into new Faculties.
Being part of the new Faculty of Science and Engineering presents considerable opportunities
for multidisciplinary collaboration. Each of the three research groups have specific scientific goals
and strategies underpinning the delivery of these objectives:
PPCT
1. Renew STFC Consolidated Grant, leveraging links with the CDTs to expand research
   collaborations with other research organisations and companies.
2. Expand collaborations with quantum information activities, e.g., applying lattice quantum
   chromodynamics (QCD) methods to quantum simulation and developing new interpretations
   of information loss in black holes.
3. Make significant contribution to international LISA consortium, a long-term, internationally
   significant collaborative endeavour and flagship for Swansea PPCT, by leading projects,
   particularly involving investigations of how gravitational wave detectors can probe the
   properties of primordial gravitational waves from cosmic inflation.




                                                                                                   6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

AMQP
4. Grow antihydrogen research efforts in the world-leading ALPHA collaboration with a
   permanent presence at CERN complemented by an expansion of the local infrastructure and
   expertise at Swansea in low energy positrons and laser spectroscopy.
5. Exploit new opportunities and synergies with APM, e.g., in deep UV photodetectors.
6. Expand collaborations with engineering in areas such as positron annihilation spectroscopy
   (PALS) and Doppler broadening spectroscopy (DBS).


APM
7. Deliver new CISM facility (mid-2022) [Figure 3] and progress its inclusion in major national
   facilities propositions such as the Henry Royce Institute and EPSRC National Epitaxy Facility
   (discussion already advanced in both cases).
8. Successfully complete the Sêr SAM program (end-2022) and transition advanced materials
   research to the CISM facilities and activity portfolio.
9. Lead the delivery of cross-university programmes (detailed in 3.1) including: EPSRC
   Programme Grant ATIP; ISCF, SIPF, CS Connected; ISCF DER; Aerospace Technology
   Institute HiDASP and provide underpinning UoA9 support for major new EU funded
   programmes such as ASSET and FLEXIS.
10. Grow APM funding base by targeted bids such as CDT in Semiconductor Technology;
    EPSRC Manufacturing Hub; ISCF DER and Advanced Propulsion Centre CRD.
11. Translate research successes in healthcare (e.g. development of AI-based spectroscopy
    tools for cancer diagnosis) via clinical trials in collaboration with the NHS, facilitated by
    CanSense.


The group-specific goals and strategies are supported at the Departmental-level by the recent
creation of a permanent new city-centre Oriel Science facility for expanded public engagement,
a re-branding of ‘Physics at Swansea’ to better reflect our 2020 dynamic research environment,
and the development of an updated UoA-level Strategic Plan in the context of the new Faculty
structure and changes to the funding landscape.



                                                  Figure 3: CISM, to be completed mid-2022, is
                                                  integral to the expansion of UoA9’s research
                                                  capacity. The infrastructure and associated
                                                  project portfolio are designed to support a growing
                                                  regional semiconductors industry. Its centrepiece
                                                  is a sector-leading industrial research fabrication
                                                  clean room with manufacturing-relevant process
                                                  tools, state-of-the-art characterization & the UK’s
                                                  only II-VI-wide-gap-oxide epitaxial growth facility.
                                                  Capable of co-processing silicon, compound and
                                                  organic semiconductors, it will accommodate
                                                  industry and university researchers (100+) and
                                                  incubation space.




                                                                                                     7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Section 2: Staffing


The UoA has 26 cat-A submitted, academic staff, six Lecturers/Senior Lecturers, four Associate
Professors and 17 Professors, populating three complementary groups. All are on permanent
contracts, 25 are full-time and six early career researchers (ECRs). 45% are non-UK nationals,
19% BAME and 12% have a disability. Cat-A staff are supported by 27 fixed-term postdoctoral
researchers and 22 PGR students. Underpinning this rich research ecosystem is a team of seven
project-specific technical and administrative staff and 40 staff across the College of Science
supporting IT, finance, reporting and bid preparation.
2.1 STAFFING STRATEGY & STAFF DEVELOPMENT

The UoA staffing strategy during the census period was guided by the Department-specific vision
described in section 1 and overall institutional aims, especially, University Strategic Aim 2, to build
an inclusive, supportive, and intellectually stimulating environment. The strategies relevant to
delivering these objectives were:
1. Enhancing research in existing UoA core activities (OBJ1): The PPCT group has expanded
   its research in cosmology and QFT/strings with the addition of two Senior Lecturers and one
   Lecturer. Antimatter research activities (AMQP) expanded via the award of numerous Royal
   Society, Leverhulme and Visiting Fellowships including to maintain the permanent presence
   at CERN within the ALPHA collaboration.
2. Diversifying research in applied physics (OBJ2): AMQP has expanded its research in
   experimental physics, especially laser physics, quantum optics and control, and quantum
   information with the appointments of two Lecturers and one Senior Lecturer. The signature
   achievement in diversifying the UoA’s research portfolio, the creation of the APM group, was
   enabled by the appointment of a Professor and Chair in the Centre for Nanohealth as HoD in
   2016, followed by initiation of the Sêr SAM programme with the appointment of a Professor
   and Sêr Cymru National Research Chair in 2017 followed by a Senior Lecturer and Sêr Cymru
   Rising Star, and a COFUND Fellow and Senior Research Scientist. To provide additional
   leadership and support for the rapidly expanding semiconductor activities in Sêr SAM and
   CISM, a Professor from Cambridge University's Cavendish Laboratory was appointed on a
   20% FTE in 2018.
3. The appointments in response to OBJ2 were underpinned by the drive towards greater
   multidisciplinarity and engagement with industry (OBJ3). The new Head of Department (HoD)
   has international experience in academia (previously Texas A&M) and industry (including
   start-ups). The new Sêr SAM Chair was previously Director of two major multidisciplinary and
   industry-focused initiatives at the University of Queensland (Centre for Organic Photonics &
   Electronics, UQ Solar) and brought a track record of industrial research, policy interventions,
   and significant commercial start-up experience including raising venture capital. The head of
   the Cavendish semiconductor research efforts was targeted both for his national leadership
   in the field and very close ties and long track record of working successfully with industry
   (Toshiba, Teraview, E2V). Dedicated support enabled existing staff to focus on biomedical
   research and commercialisation of a colorectal cancer blood-test in collaboration with the
   Medical School and NHS Wales.
Several important elements of the institutional objectives of University Strategic Aim 2 underpin
the departmental strategies. These institutional elements are covered by the performance
enabling professional development review (PDR) and relate to matters such as staff
development, training, progression, mentoring, and ECR support. Features of the PDR are
described in detail in REF5a. Notable highlights that have impacted staff development in UoA9
during the census period include:
 ECR leadership training via award-winning Welsh Crucible and Leadership Foundation
  Aurora programmes




                                                                                                     8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Staff participating in the all-Wales Women in Universities Mentoring Scheme
 ECR career development and support including probationary supervision, mentoring and
  establishment of training requirements via Development and Training Services
 Reduced teaching loads for staff on fellowships/chairs (RSURF, STFC ERF, Sêr Cymru)
 Eligibility for research leave (teaching relief for a semester) every five years
 Allocating 50% FTE for research, innovation, and engagement for category-A staff
Clear indicators of the combined success of these departmental and institutional-level strategies
are provided by the Research Environment enhancements detailed in section 1. Our success in
creating research time is reflected in the data collected via the Time Allocation Survey under the
TRAC framework. For 2014–19, Physics staff reported an average of over 50% of dedicated
research time. Further evidence of success is provided by our record in staff recruitment and
progression – 10 academic staff across all academic ranks during the last REF period have been
recruited, there have been numerous promotions rewarding excellence, including three
Professorships, three Associate Professorships, five Senior Lectureships, and eight successful
applications for Fellowships. Staff retention is high with only two staff members departing and two
retiring. We have gained external recognition with appointments to various learned societies
(Meissner, Charlton, Ritchie, Meredith – Institute of Physics, Academia Europaea, Learned
Society of Wales), the 2020 IOP Joseph Thomson Medal (Charlton), and an OBE in the 2020
Queen’s Birthday Honours list for services to materials research and innovation (Meredith).
2.2 RESEARCH STUDENTS (PGR) TRAINING & SUPERVISION
The UoA’s PGR Student Strategy recognises that our PGRs are the engines of research and at
the heart of the virtuous circle that delivers research excellence and impact. Our postgraduate
community is a major asset to our Research Environment and has thrived over the census period.
Postgraduates are also ambassadors for Swansea and contribute enormously to the collegiality
of our research culture. This recognition underpins the Department's contribution to the
University Strategic Aim 3, ‘to create a connected community of learning that enables the
recruitment of diverse postgraduate students. Once again, the UoA approach to PGR students is
a mix of Departmental, College and University-level strategies:
Provision of competitive fully-and-part-funded PhD studentships and fee scholarships: Over the
census period PhD studentships have been secured via EPSRC/STFC [institutional DTPs and
involvement in CDTs in Data Driven Science (UoA9 lead), Industrial Function Coatings (UoA15
lead) and Machine Learning and Advanced Computing (UoA11 lead)], the European Social Fund
(ESF) and KESS. Highly competitive University scholarships such as Swansea University
Research Excellence Scholarships (SURES) augment external schemes, with priority given to
interdisciplinary projects and joint PhD programmes with international partners such as the
University of Grenoble and the Houston Methodist Research Institute. Our PhD topics and
supervision teams increasingly reflect interdisciplinarity and cross-institution reach.
Recruitment: Two PGR Admission Officers manage the recruitment of potential PGR applicants
for experiment and theory. A uniform and transparent assessment process ensures an effective
triage and robust interview process by an Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) balanced panel.
This ensures quality control, student, supervisor and project match, and mitigates bias.
Supervision, administration and training: PGR students are assigned two supervisors and a non-
specialist mentor. Progression is monitored online via a dedicated Research Management
System (RMS), cited by QAA as best practice. PGR students are provided with subject-specific
and soft-skills training through the UoA and Doctoral Training Centres (DTC), including free
access to masters-level courses, journal clubs, seminars and training in Integrity and Ethics,
Academic Writing, Research Networking, Enterprise and Entrepreneurship, etc. Training is also
provided to staff supervising research students and is mandatory for new staff as part of CPD.
Funding is available for PGRs to present work at conferences. Clear and transparent processes
for thesis preparation, submission and examination including examiner vetting and selection, are
in place. PGR directors at UoA and College level ensure compliance.




                                                                                                 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

A PGR community approach: Although the Department Research Environment is organised into
distinct but complementary groups, the PGR cohort is physically mixed in shared large office
spaces and there is considerable cross-fertilisation in the various department seminar series.
Furthermore, the students come together for their soft-skills training and there is a vibrant social
scene. The PGR community is augmented by numerous international visitors, both informally and
through programmes such as the NSF-funded US-UK International Student Research in Robust
Control of Quantum Networks (with the University of Southern California and Cardiff).
The UoA’s comprehensive approach to PGR student supervision and training has yielded
considerable success. This is evidenced by a 116% increase in PhDs awarded during the
census period, a large fraction of joint publications with other disciplines and institutions (1.2),
and the growing interdisciplinarity with supervisory teams spanning multiple departments. Our
commitment to generating high-quality PhDs is evident from the progression of our students to
prestigious Fellowships, post-doctoral positions and industry, recent examples including a
Humboldt Fellowship, and positions MPI Munich, CUBRIC Brain Imaging Centre, the University
of Texas, SuperComputing Wales and SPTS. Looking forward to 2025, the increasing diversity
of the UoA’s funding, multi-disciplinarity and industry engagement driven by initiatives such as
CISM will require a flexible approach to PGR provisions – for example, the need to embed
industrial students in the Research Environment. The new Faculty of Science and Engineering
will also afford opportunities for leveraging resources (including training) and creating critical
mass across disciplines for enhanced CDT and other programmes.
2.3 SUPPORTING AND PROMOTING EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY
The Department is home to staff and students from all over the world with a wide range of ethnic,
cultural, socio-economic, and educational backgrounds, gender identities, sexual orientations,
and other protected personal characteristics and aims to provide a welcoming environment and
equal opportunities for everyone, regardless of background, and actively encourages different
perspectives and opinions.
Our commitment to equality and diversity is framed by the University’s Strategic Equality Plan,
which underpins a culture of inclusivity and values diversity in all areas of activity, including
Welsh-language compliance. The Department implements a range of institution-wide strategies
to promote EDI (see also REF5a) such as mandatory EDI training for all staff, EDI champions,
and Juno and Athena Swan committees.
In line with the University's Code of Practice and UoA’s Statement of Intent, the team making the
decisions on the final selection of outputs received mandatory unconscious bias training and
targeted REF specific training on the fair and transparent selection of outputs for inclusion in the
submission. The submission comprises one best-quality output from each CatA submitted staff
member with the balance made up of the best-quality outputs from the available pool of eligible
outputs, including outputs of former eligible colleagues.
In relation to specific considerations for UoA9, additional EDI strategies have been implemented
at the Departmental level, notably:
      Mandatory unconscious bias and EDI training for all academic staff
      EDI training modules for PGR students provided by DTC
      Recognition of EDI challenges in STEM and focus on diversity in recruitment
      EDI-balanced interview panels in staff and PGR recruitment
      Openess to host visiting research staff/students from emerging countries
      EDI standing agenda item at Departmental meetings
EDI is promoted by policies such as flexible working and generous parental leave allowances,
subject to regular review and adaptation to ensure all personal situations are accounted for, e.g.,
allowing non-female LGBT staff to take maternity leave for adoption.
While the composition of category-A staff has not changed significantly yet, these strategies and
initiatives have led to steady progress toward a more diverse Department. Increased diversity is




                                                                                                 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

clearly evident in our PGR and postdoc population, and stronger recruitment of non-white/non-
male and socio-economically-disadvantaged persons. This year, the first student put forward by
the Department has been shortlisted for a Bell-Burnell scholarship for a project in medical physics,
joint with the medical school, highlighting the value of the UoA’s increased focus on applied
physics and multidisciplinarity. The success of the UoA’s EDI efforts has been recognized by
Institute of Physics Juno Champion certification in 2018, and an Athena SWAN Bronze Award in
2019, following the University’s 2017 Athena SWAN Silver Award.

Section 3: Income, Infrastructure and Facilities
3.1 RESEARCH FUNDING

3.1.1   Strategic Considerations & Overall Income Summary:
Strategies for both increasing and diversifying research funding have been core to the UoA’s
Research and Impact Strategy in the census period and underpin the three objectives described
in section 1. The Department has created an environment where staff are encouraged to
explore new research directions and grant sources, develop new collaborations and consortia,
and have the confidence and capacity to lead major programmatic applications. From a
structural perspective, functions such as horizon-scanning, bid preparation and pre- and post-
award support are provided via the College of Science Research Hub, while scientific peer
review is facilitated at the group-level. As described in section 2, institutional-level strategies
such as sabbatical leave and protected research time, research income return incentives and
seed-corn funding via numerous programmes (e.g., SURGE and EPSRC Impact Acceleration
Accounts) are also valuable elements of the overall environment. Figure 4 provides a
breakdown of research grant income (REF4b) during the census period with notable
achievements:
i)   During the census period research income has increased by 81% and grants awarded 71%.
ii) Significant diversification of funding with first awards from the US Army Research Office,
    IARPA and National Science Foundation; European Research Council, UK medical sector
    (Cancer Research UK, Cancer Research Wales); UKRI (ISCF and SIPF not yet reflected in
    HESA but awarded in census period), underpinned by EPSRC, STFC, European Regional
    Development Fund and new CDTs.




                                                                                                 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




        Figure 4: Breakdown of research grant awards over the census period shows
           considerable diversification and income increases relative to REF2014.

3.1.2    Major Awards by Research Group:
The aggregated achievements shown in Figure 4 have been driven by successes across all
three research groups and represents a substantial collective effort. This has been augmented
by significant funding for public engagement through Oriel Science (£0.58M Figure 5). Group-
specific grants awarded during the census period (not all of which reflected in the expenditure
figures since they are ongoing and future) highlight the considerable expansion of the UoA’s
funding base.
PPCT: Core activities have been and continue to be funded by a series of three-year STFC
Consolidated grants. During the census period, this funding amounted to £1,054k (14/17), £995k
(17/20) and £1,257k (20/23). The latter increase was obtained in a highly competitive
environment. PPCT activities are also supported by funding via individual fellowships including a
RSURF (Thompson), three Wolfson Research Merit awards (Aarts, Lucini, Nunez), one
Leverhulme Trust Senior Research Fellowship (Hands), two Leverhulme Research Fellowships
(Aarts, Allton), two Newton Fellowships (Roychowdhury with Kumar, Zacarias with Nunez), and
a Visiting Chinese Scholarship Council (Wu with Aarts). The lattice QCD area is a node in the
EU Initial Training Network (ITN) Europlex, which provides a three-year ITN Fellow, co-
supervised across Physics and Mathematics (Aarts, Lucini, 2019-2022). The lattice QCD area
also benefits from the EU COST network THOR (2016-2020), which provides travel support.
AMQP: Antimatter research was significantly boosted by an EPSRC grant (£2M, 2017-21) and
an EPSRC Strategic Equipment award (£1.5M) for frequency metrology. Quantum Information
and Control research received a significant new investment via an EU Quantum Technology
Flagship Grant for Advanced Quantum Computing with Trapped Ions (€0.5M, 2018-21), an ERC
Starter Grant for Quantum Neural Networks (€1.5M, 2019-23) and an EC-FP7 Co-ordinated
Action on Optimal Control Technologies in Quantum Information Processing (~€0.5M, 2013-
2016). EPSRC funding for an Ultrafast Electron Microscope for Imaging Biochemical Interactions
(£5M capital, £2M p/a ops) and a collaboration with the Rosalind Franklin Institute on
femtosecond TEM (~£0.4M).
APM (Materials): Welsh Government and ERDF funding was instrumental in establishing the
new APM group through a National Research Network in Advanced Engineering award in 2014,
followed by a £6M Sêr Cymru II award for Sêr SAM in 2017. Materials research in the Department




                                                                                              12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

and indeed across the University was further boosted by an RPIF award (£29.92M) for CISM,
and associated additional equipment awards (2019 EPSRC Strategic Equipment [II-VI and Oxide
MOCVD Reactor - £2.7M], 2020 ISCF DER Industrialisation Centres - £4.8M]), plus project and
program funding (Sêr Cymru Capacity Builder [Optoelectronic Device Scaling - £0.54M], Wave 1
ISCF SIPF [CS Connected - £1.92M to Swansea with Cardiff as lead] and the Swansea-led
EPSRC Programme Grant [Application Targeted Integrated Photovoltaics, £5.9M] with Imperial
and Oxford as partners).
APM (Bio-medical): Funding from a wide range of sources allowed the further development of
the bio-medical physics in APM. A Royal Society-Leverhulme Senior Fellowship (Shermer) and
two NHS-funded research studentships on Novel Techniques for Quantification of Biomarkers
(MRI/S) in 2014 were followed by an EPSRC Platform Grant on Engineering Blood Diagnostics
in 2016 (£1,502,075), a COST Action Network Grant on Brillouin Light Scattering Micro-
spectroscopy for Biological and Biomedical Research in 2017, funding from Cancer Research UK
on Tumour Educated Platelets for Early Cancer Detection (£100,000; 2018-19), and an EPSRC
Translational Alliance in Biophotonics for Cytometry (£201,932; 2016-19). Funding for blood-
based cancer diagnostics totals over £1M since 2014 from various sources including the Welsh
Government, Cancer Research Wales, Health and Care Research Wales, EPSRC, AgorIP and
includes spin-out company activity, for example with Welsh Government SMART programmes
and Innovate UK.
3.1.3   Funding Linked to Impact (see also Section 4):
The impacts derived from research in the Department were highlighted in 1.3, and the funding
described above has underpinned excellent quality basic research which had led to a wide-
range of impactful outcomes e.g., the development and commercialisation of cancer diagnostics
(CanSense Ltd) and biomedical imaging (APM), pull through of advanced AI and of data driven
science (PPCT), the development of realisable quantum technologies (AMQP), the creation of
next generation, commercial solar PV technology (APM), and a whole raft of program and
capital funding to support the UK semiconductor industry (APM-CISM).
3.2 OPERATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE SUPPORTING RESEARCH AND IMPACT

3.2.1   Overall Infrastructure Context:
At REF2014 significant investments in Physics-related research infrastructure (around £20M)
were foreshadowed at both the existing Department on the Singleton Campus and the new
£500M industry-focused Bay Innovation Campus. This intent has been realized with refurbished
office accommodation in the Vivian Tower providing a well-connected and pleasant environment
for staff, PDRAs and PhD students, new labs for APM at the adjacent Centre for Nanohealth
(CNH), and state-of-the-art microscopy, fabrication, and surface analytical facilities at the Bay
campus. As current Departmental accommodation has little capacity for upgrade/expansion, the
infrastructure will become increasingly distributed when the new CISM facility comes on-line in
2022. As described in section 2, technical support is provided by pooled resources (technicians,
dedicated mechanical workshop), augmented by group-specific grant-funded resources (e.g.
two FTE technicians in Sêr SAM).
3.2.2   Group-specific Infrastructure:
APM and AMQP operate bespoke laboratories in the Vivian Tower and adjacent CNH.
AMQP facilities include: i) A slow-positron beamline – one of a handful of such systems worldwide
– suitable for studying positron-atom/molecule interactions, material and positronium analysis;
ii) A bespoke X-ray beamline including a high-energy spectrometer and metrology system for
characterizing spatial properties of coherent x-ray beams plus visible beam adaptive optics
systems using deformable mirrors and spatial light modulators; iii) Facilities for observing ultrafast
electron emission from nanoscale metal tips with velocity map imaging, femtosecond electron
diffraction and microscopy, and low-energy electron point-projection microscopy. This equipment
enables the study of ultrafast structural dynamics and is augmented by femtosecond XUV-NIR
and UV-NIR pump-probe spectroscopy. Strong-field few-cycle laser pulse generation and




                                                                                                   13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

metrology enables the study of ultrafast vibrational wave-packet dynamics in gas-phase
molecules; and iv) New facilities for trapping cold atoms and levitated optomechanics serve as a
versatile platform for exploring fundamental and applied quantum measurement and control.
APM: Comprehensive facilities for advanced materials research (see Section 1), housed in the
CNH laboratories, include: I) extensive micro-and-nano-fabrication tools for next-generation
semiconductor materials and devices (inert glove-box cluster-tool for organic and perovskite
semiconductors); ii) an advanced electro-optical characterisation laboratory (electrical
spectroscopy and ultra-fast photo-physics for materials and device analysis at cryogenic
temperatures). The suite of biomedical related equipment has recently been expanded with
advanced Raman spectroscopy supporting the cancer diagnostics programme, and time-
resolved laser-based spectroscopy systems allowing bio-photonic studies of biologically derived
functional materials.
3.3 CROSS-HEI SHARED & MAJOR UK / INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH FACILITIES

3.3.1   Cross-HEI Facilities:
Physics researchers have access to significant cross-university infrastructure representing 10s
of £M of investment:
The Centre for Nanohealth (CNH) provides an integrated environment for nanotechnology and
biomedical research and innovation. It includes a fully equipped nanofabrication class 1000/100
cleanroom; a class 1000 bio-cleanroom for tissue engineering and device functionalization as
well as NMR, rheology, biomolecule printing, and various forms of microscopy. CNH also includes
a category two biomedical laboratory suite offering cell and molecular biology capabilities
including confocal microscopy, high-throughput analytical systems, microbiology, regenerative
medicine and tissue engineering, and nano-genotoxicology. CNH also provides incubation space
such as private offices, a clinical research facility, access to a 'first into man' clinical trials unit,
MRI/CT patient imaging and health informatics.
The Clinical Imaging Facility (CIF) is a joint venture between Swansea University and Abertawe
Bro Morgannwg University Local Health Board. CIF's primary role is to facilitate clinical research,
including pharmaceutical-based studies in oncology, applications of MRI, and the development
of imaging-based pathways. The facility houses a 3T Siemens Magneton MRI Scanner with high
density coils for neuro, body, and orthopaedic scanning, together with the TIM 4th generation
system to support ultra-high-density coils. The MRI suite hardware includes an infusion pump for
IV injections and fMRI screen and response boxes. A research agreement with Siemens enables
CIF users to develop, implement and test new physics-based MR pulse sequences and bespoke
scanning protocols and customize hardware.
Advanced Microscopy & Surface Analysis. The Bay Campus is home to a fully integrated suite of
advanced electron microscopes, X-ray diffraction and optical imaging systems that allows
millimetre-to-angstrom structural analysis as part of the Advanced Imaging of Materials (AIM)
facility. This is augmented with state-of-the-art surface analysis by way of X-ray Photoelectron
Spectroscopy – which in combination provide a comprehensive capability used by a range of
internal and external stakeholders.
3.3.2   Major UK / International Facilities:
ALPHA at CERN: The AMQP group makes excellent use of the ALPHA experiment at CERN,
which after two decades of development is the world-leading facility for antihydrogen research.
ALPHA comprises two main anti-atom-trap systems designed for spectroscopy and gravitational
measurements and is the only EPSRC-supported experiment active at CERN, adding
complementarity to the UK portfolio. ALPHA uses beam-time at the antiproton facility that now
comprises the AD and ELENA deceleration machines providing round-the-clock access to low
energy antiprotons for experimentation. In addition, thanks to EPSRC and Carlsberg Foundation
(DK) support, the Swansea ALPHA group are building a metrology facility to house a state-of-




                                                                                                      14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

the-art Caesium fountain clock that will provide an absolute frequency reference for the ALPHA
group’s spectroscopic studies of antihydrogen.
ISIS, STFC & EPSRC: Materials research was supported by an STFC award for >15 days of
beamtime on the ISIS Pulsed Neutron and Muon Source for projects in the Sêr SAM portfolio.
Ultrafast laser research was supported by ‘Artemis’ at the Rutherford Appleton Central Laser
Facility (CLF) providing access to high-power laser systems and diagnostics. Artemis was used,
with Imperial College, to generate intense few-cycle IR pulses, and the XUV imaging beamline
was used to measure spectra in the water window (~200-500eV). Extensive use has also been
made of the EPSRC Laser Loan Pool operated by the CLF. Research on novel ultrafast electron
sources was facilitated by the Accelerator Science & Technology Centre (ASTeC) at STFC
Daresbury Laboratory. (Total value of in-kind awards £179k.)
Super Computing: Computational research has been facilitated by several awards of both
computing resource and research software engineer support via competitive bids to the STFC
Distributed Research Utilizing Advanced Computing (DiRAC). The most recent award included
310M core hours on the Extreme Scaling facility in Edinburgh as well as allocations on the Data
Intensive machines at Cambridge and Leicester. The work also uses resource allocations on the
Blue Gene/Q and Marconi KNL systems at Cineca (Italy) via the Partnership for Advanced
Computing in Europe (PRACE) and SuperComputing Wales. (Total value of in-kind awards on
DiRAC £2.19M.)




                                                            Figure 5: Oriel Science, a public
                                                            engagement and outreach project
                                                            founded and run by members of the
                                                            Dept, has recently established a
                                                            new city centre science venue to
                                                            enhance       Future    Generations’
                                                            educational and career journeys,
                                                            address under-representations, and
                                                            public engagement with science. It
                                                            packages Swansea University’
                                                            research into exciting, interactive
                                                            exhibits, and puts these in places
                                                            people go. Launched as a Pop-Up
                                                            Science venue in Swansea’s city
                                                            centre in 2017, it welcomed 17,000
                                                            visitors over 100 days. Since then, it
                                                            has engaged with 150,000 people in
                                                            over 100 events including: annual
 ‘Super Science Swansea’ festivals in the National Waterfront Museum with over 3,000 daily
 visitors, exhibitions in Swansea Museum and the Glynn Vivian Art Gallery, exhibits at careers
 fairs, talks in schools, community events, the London Science Museum, and local and national
 Science Festivals. It has been awarded funding worth £580k.


Section 4: Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society

4.1 RESEARCH COLLABORATIONS, NETWORKS AND PARTNERSHIPS
The Research and Impact Strategy has delivered a significant expansion in collaborations,
networks, and partnerships: intra-university, inter-organisational, locally, nationally, and globally.
Figure 1 illustrates the connectivity of the Department and our broad stakeholder base across
academia, industry, government and third sector. The impact delivered by this comprehensive




                                                                                                   15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

engagement has been a collective contribution across the three research groups with additional
cross-department endeavours in public engagement, STEM diversification and EDI promotion
(see 4.2, 4.3). Notable major collaborations and partnerships include:
    SuperComputing Wales (SCW), the national supercomputing research facility for Wales,
     involving four Welsh universities. Representing a £16M programme of investment (ERDF
     and Welsh Government), it provides access to upgraded supercomputer hubs in Cardiff
     and Swansea. Swansea’s involvement is facilitated by the Swansea Academy of
     Advanced Computing (SA2C), established in 2017 with members of the PPCT group.
     SCW was also instrumental in capturing CDT funding (see below) and provides co-
     ordinated training support. It works closely with external partners, including large
     companies (ATOS, IBM, Microsoft, Nvidia, etc.), locally based SMEs (Amplyfi, Quant
     Foundry, WePredict), and government and Research Council partners (DiRAC, GCHQ,
     Welsh Water). A good example of impact from the SCW network is a collaboration with
     Pulsar Physics, a spin-out software company from University of Eindhoven developing
     state-of-the-art charged-particle-dynamics modelling software, which has led to beta
     testing of new features for femtosecond electron microscopy design.
    The international ALPHA consortium, based at CERN, the globe’s leading research
     endeavour in antimatter physics. By making precise comparisons of hydrogen and
     antihydrogen, the experiment uncovers fundamental symmetries between matter and
     antimatter. Swansea AMQP plays a central role in ALPHA, and as described in A, the
     experiment is a multi-decade endeavour, which has moved into the exciting delivery
     phase in the census period producing seminal results and field leading publications (c.f.
     10 Nature / Nature Suite papers with AMQP authors). The Swansea group spearheads
     the EPSRC’s involvement in ALPHA and has permanent staff and students at CERN as
     described in section 2.
    Application Targeted Integrated Photovoltaics (ATIP), a five-year (2020-2024) EPSRC
     Programme Grant consortium led by Swansea (APM – Materials, Sêr SAM, SPECIFIC
     IKC) with partners Imperial, Oxford and 11 companies. The UK’s only Programme Grant
     in the area, it seeks to maintain a nationally leading position in developing next generation,
     low embodied energy solar photovoltaics (PV), an important element of decarbonisation.
     ATIP is nationally and internationally connected with cognate programmes such as
     SUPERGEN SuperSolar (UKRI), SPARCII (Welsh European Funding Office), National
     Renewable Energy Laboratory (USA), Fraunhofer Institute for Solar Energy (Germany)
     and the Australian Centre for Advanced Photovoltaics. Swansea now has the largest
     collective of solar PV researchers in the UK.
    CanSense and Biomedical Imaging [AMP – Biomedical] – Research on medical imaging,
     magnetic resonance spectroscopy and multi-parametric MRI is conducted in a joint
     Clinical Imaging Facility (CIF) managed by the School of Medicine and shared facilities
     provided by CNH in close collaboration with NHS staff, radiologists, medical researchers,
     and researchers from Cardiff University's Brain Imaging Centre (CUBRIC), supported by
     a Research Agreement with Siemens and a start-up company (ACUITAS). Another
     significant multidisciplinary initiative between Physics and Medicine using CNH facilities
     is bio-spectroscopy (see below and Section 1) which has led the spinout company
     CanSense to commercialising a test for colorectal cancer.
In addition to these group-led major programmes, our researchers have been involved in
numerous project-level collaborations such as the development of spintronic and dilute magnetic
semiconductor devices (National Research Network in Advanced Engineering and EPSRC
Manufacturing Hub at Cardiff). Other such examples include the recently awarded NSF project to
create a US-UK Advanced Study Institute on Robust Control of Quantum Systems (Engineering
Department at the University of Southern California and the Computer Science Department at
Cardiff), and the PPCT-consortium ‘FASTSUM’ involving Lattice Field Theorists in Swansea,
Denmark, South Korea, Taiwan, Ireland, Italy, and the US. Finally, it is worth highlighting two
major initiatives that will come on-line in 2021:




                                                                                                16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    CISM will harness and contribute to the critical mass of the South Wales CS Connected
     industrial cluster in semiconductor manufacturing (see below and Figure 3) with a £20M
     portfolio of TRL-spanning collaborative projects (2020-2025).
    LISA (ESA / NASA’s Laser Interferometric Space Antenna) in which Swansea PPCT will
     provide underpinning cosmological theory support for experiments launching in the early
     2030s, including work package leadership in GW detectors.

4.2 CONTRIBUTIONS TO RESEARCH BASE

4.2.1   SUSTAINABILITY & PRIORITY RESPONSIVENESS.
As described in sections 1 and 3, our funding base has diversified in response to emerging
opportunities such as the ISCF, the formation of UKRI, and winding-back of EU Structural
Funding. The UoA9 research portfolio has expanded considerably because of this strategic
approach and has a solid and sustainable foundation going forward without heavy reliance on a
single source. A good example of this robustness is CISM’s funding base with programmes in
key national priority areas: Clean Energy Systems; Nanohealth; and Power and Low Loss
Electronics. Close connectivity with principle regional stakeholders such as NHS Wales and CS
Connected also provide a firm foundation for local relevance, and involvement in major national
and international programmes such as ALPHA and LISA ensures global reach. The UoA is well
equipped to deal with changes to ERC / Horizon-2020 arrangements and respond to new
opportunities afforded by the Faculty re-structure. With the acquisition of CDTs, the Department
is in a robust position with respect to PGR provision, but this remains an area of exposure in the
new areas of activity (see 1.4).

4.2.2   WIDER CONTRIBUTIONS:
Beyond contributing broadly to their specific fields, staff also provide local, national, and
international leadership.
   1. Journal responsibilities: UoA staff review for a wide variety of international journals
      including Science, Nature, the Physical Review and Advanced Materials suites, IEEE
      Transactions, etc. Staff also serve on editorial boards, for example Proceedings of the
      Royal Society B, European Journal of Physics, Advanced Materials, RRL Solar, EP
      Techniques and Instrumentation and routinely contribute chapters, book reviews and
      proposals and field-leading Perspectives and Reviews. In 2020, Hands was named by the
      American Physical Society as an Outstanding Reviewer for the Physical Review.
   2. Grant Review & Research Councils: UoA staff review for many national and international
      granting bodies and serve on decision panels including – UKRI, EPSRC, STFC, DFG
      (Germany), ANR (France), KAUST, EU (COST, ITN, FET-Proactive, MSCA-IF), the Royal
      Society, British Council, Max Planck Society, Australian Research Council, the Academy
      of Finland, and the US NSF and Department of Energy. Staff have served on STFC panels
      including Review of Particle Physics Phenomenology (2015); Balance of Programme
      Review (2016); Review of the Consolidated Grant Scheme (2019) and STFC’s Particle
      Physics Theory Grants Panel. Meredith has served on the technical advisory board of the
      Australian Renewable Energy Agency, is an H2020 Major Project Monitor and EPSRC
      National Nuclear User Facilities Advisory Committee member. Ritchie is a member of the
      EPSRC ICT SAT.
   3. Conference Organisation & Contributions: Staff have served on organizing committees
      and advisory boards and presented scores of keynotes and plenaries for conferences and
      workshops all over the world in areas ranging from antimatter to advanced materials, from
      theoretical particle physics to systems & control engineering. Examples include the 2021
      NanoGe Fall Meeting (Armin), SPIE Optics and Photonics and MRS (Meredith), the 2015
      3rd International Workshop on Antimatter and Gravity (Madsen), the 2019 Mainz Institute
      of` Theoretical Physics meeting on Dualities and Generalised Geometry (Nunez), etc.




                                                                                               17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   4. Other Leadership and Recognition: Senior UoA staff have also provided significant field
      leadership to their communities, e.g., Aarts chairs the Scientific Board of the European
      Centre for Theoretical Nuclear Physics (interim Director from 1/1/21) and serves on the
      Joint Scientific Council of the FAIR/GSI accelerator facility in Darmstadt. Hands is co-chair
      of the DiRAC's Project Board, organised DiRAC Science Day in Swansea in 2018, and
      coordinated writing of the Science Case for the DiRAC 3 facility, which has recently
      received £20M under UKRI ‘World Class Labs’ funding and will commence operation in
      September 2021. Charlton serves on the Council of the Learned Society of Wales.
   5. Collaborative PGR Training: As described in detail in section 2, the UoA hosts a node or
      leads two CDTs (AIMLAC – directed by Aarts, and Data Intensive Science), provides
      projects and supervision for multi-disciplinary projects including industry, and is an
      institutional though leader in collaborative PGR training.

4.3 CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE ECONOMY & SOCIETY
Public Engagement & Diverse Communities: As described in the UoA Case Studies and
summarised in Figure 5 (Oriel Science), the Department has a comprehensive portfolio of
engagement with our local community, and particularly with school-age students in promoting
STEM and increasing diversity. An example of such a contribution by UoA researchers over and
above our Case Studies is our support for the Seren Network, a Welsh Government initiative
dedicated to helping Wales’ brightest students achieve their full potential and support them to
gain access to leading universities in the UK or overseas, through workshop events and short
research assignments. The UoA also contributes to the CERN Outreach Programme, which has
hosted over 90,000 international students at the antimatter experiment. Swansea staff have
welcomed over 10% of this total, including special relationships with 15 schools. The UoA has a
sizeable public engagement programme including exhibits at the 2016 Royal Society Summer
Science Exhibition, the 2017 Big Bang Fair and the National Eisteddfod. The antihydrogen work
was also selected to present at the EPSRC Showcasing Physical Sciences Impact Event in 2019.
Via the biomedical research theme in APM, the UoA also contributes to the School of Medicine’s
engagement programme (as part of Reaching Wider) to bring students from disadvantaged areas
to the University to showcase the latest in healthcare innovations, emphasizing the important part
Physics plays. The UoA is also a registered provider for the Go-Wales programme to deliver
mentorship for students from minority backgrounds.
Other Economic & Societal Outcomes: The CanSense Case Study is an excellent example of
societal benefits flowing directly from our research. Another example in the healthcare space is
the contribution of our biomedical imaging researchers who provide support for clinical studies,
e.g., for a recent prostate cancer study of 400 patients referred to the CIF by the NHS (funded by
a cancer charity), where we provided analysis of the patient data and improvements to the MRI
protocols that resulted both in cost savings and benefits to patients.
Finally, our relatively recent efforts to support the creation of high-value regional jobs in the
semiconductor industry are beginning to bear fruit. CISM will provide underpinning research and
innovation services, especially to SMEs, including training, incubation, supply chain connections
and bespoke technology development. The current portfolio of CS Connected projects in which
our research plays a critical role will create 500–100 jobs to 2025 (for example in the SIPF project
and attempts to build a power electronics component supply chain via Driving the Electric
Revolution which Swansea leads). Our UoA9 Research Environment is also now providing
industry relevant PGR training to fuel the continued growth of the industry.
In conclusion, the UoA has made great strides during the census period in expanding its research
activities and their impact on academia, industry and wider society, both locally and
internationally.




                                                                                                 18
