Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of St Andrews

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 26: Modern Languages and Linguistics
 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 UNIT CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE
 The School of Modern Languages is a large, federal unit delivering research and teaching in 7
 language disciplines (Arabic, French, German, Italian, Persian, Spanish, Russian) across 6
 individual departments and the cross-departmental unit of Comparative Literature. All our
 departments are ranked in the top 5 in the Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide
 2020. As one of the largest Schools of Modern Languages in the UK and the largest in Scotland,
 our research interests cover all periods from Late Antiquity to the present day. The School is
 committed to facilitating language- and period-specific research alongside interdisciplinary,
 transnational projects. Our size and intercultural expertise make us well placed to do both and to
 shape a diverse impact agenda.

 Since REF2014, the School has continued to expand. This growth in staff numbers has led to
 an increase in transnational research. Our FTE for Category A staff has increased from 41.0 to
 45.5 and we have created 2 new research centres. Our plan to increase research leadership has
 materialised with the appointment of 5 new externally-recruited chairs and 3 promotions to
 Professor (see Section 2 below). The strategic decision to encourage staff to focus on single-
 authored books has generated 23 published monographs in the census period with a further 6
 in the final stages of completion. Comparative Literature, which was new to the School in
 REF2014, has created opportunities for interdisciplinary research initiatives. The Department of
 Arabic and Persian is now fully integrated into the research culture of the School and is home to
 one of our flagship projects on Arabic Philology.

 The University’s strong commitment to the study of languages and cultures is further evidenced
 in their approval of our plan to create a new Department of Chinese Studies. The new
 Department will open up new interdisciplinary research possibilities both within and beyond the
 School. In early 2020, we recruited the founding Chair (Lee), who is included in our REF
 submission, and a Lecturer will be recruited in September 2020. The undergraduate programme
 will come on stream in 2021-22 when the department will recruit two additional members of
 academic staff.

 Research and Impact Strategy
 Since REF2014, a key aim of our research and impact strategy has been to increase grant
 income in the School. In the census period, our research income by spend has increased by
 £1.8m, growing from £605k in REF2014 to £2.4m in REF2021.

 Research strategy and policies are developed by the School Research Committee (SRC)
 which reports to the School Management Committee. Chaired by the Director of Research
 (DoR), the SRC is composed of representatives from each of the departments, the Director of
 Impact (DoI), the Director of Postgraduate Studies, a member of the Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion Committee and a postgraduate student representative. Confidential research matters
 relating to individual performance are discussed by the Research Strategy Group, composed
 of the professoriate and chaired by the DoR. This group also makes strategic recommendations

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 about research leave that are approved by the Head of School, taking individual circumstances
 into account.

 Our strategic research priorities are:
        • to maintain excellent coverage in all areas of Modern Languages research from Late
        Antiquity to the present day
        • to foster interdisciplinarity and collaborative research within and beyond Modern
        Languages
        • to extend the reach of the impact of our research from the regional and national to the
        global

 (1) Maintaining Excellent Coverage
 The breadth of research in the School is reflected in our 9 interdisciplinary research areas:
 Comparative Studies; Creativity and Performance; Gender and Sexuality Studies; History,
 Politics and Society; Medieval and Early Modern Studies; Medical Humanities and Cultures of
 Science; Memory Studies; Postcolonial and Transnational Studies; and Translation Studies and
 Linguistics. In the climate of a loss of emphasis on Early Modern Studies in the UK, we have
 made a conscious commitment to maintaining this area in both teaching and research to ensure
 we maintain excellent coverage in all areas of Modern Language Studies.

 Our commitment to breadth and depth is reflected in our research strategy which encourages
 both language-specific and interdisciplinary research initiatives. Its success is evidenced by the
 fact that key externally-funded research projects in the School include some that focus on a
 single language or nation, e.g. ‘Language-Philology-Culture: Arab Cultural Semantics in
 Transition’ (ERC-funded), ‘Screening Art’ (Leverhulme-funded) and ‘Rwandan Stories of
 Change’ (AHRC-funded); and others that are more transnational in their reach, e.g.
 ‘Leverhulme International Network for Contemporary Studies’ (Leverhulme-funded),
 ‘Transnationalizing Modern Languages: Mobility, Identity and Translation in Modern Italian
 Cultures’ (AHRC-funded), ‘Poetry and Performance’ and ‘Transnational Scotland: Reconnecting
 Heritage Stories through Museum Object Collections’ (both funded by the Royal Society of
 Edinburgh) and ‘On the Cusp of Modernity: Byzantium America and the Trauma of the
 Conquest’ (funded by Dumbarton Oaks/Harvard).

 (2) Fostering Interdisciplinary and Collaborative Research
 Interdisciplinary and collaborative research is fostered through our School Institute and Centres,
 and our seminar series and residency programmes.

 The School is home to 4 interdisciplinary research groupings (an Institute and 3 Centres), all of
 them funded by the School and reviewed annually by the University. Our Institute and Centres
 bring together colleagues from the different departments and researchers from across the
 University to foster interdisciplinary research. Two of these are well established: the Institute for
 European Cultural Identity Studies (IECIS) was founded in 1998 and the Centre for Russian,
 Soviet, Central and Eastern European Studies (CRSCEES) in 1990, but both have evolved
 considerably since their creation.

 In 2018, the IECIS was renamed the Cultural Identity and Memory Studies Institute (CIMS)
 to reflect the opening up of research into cultural zones beyond Europe (the Arabic- and
 Persian-speaking world; the ex-Soviet republics; Latin America; Francophone Africa and the
 Caribbean) and the growth of memory studies in our School. Led by O’Leary, its management

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 committee also includes members from Art History, Classics, English, Geography, History,
 International Relations and Social Anthropology. CIMS hosts interdisciplinary research events,
 an MLitt/PhD programme, and organises ‘brown bag’ lunchtime research seminars, guest
 lectures, postgraduate seminars, a PhD student-led reading group and postgraduate workshops.
 Recent guest speakers have included Stef Craps (Ghent), Jeffrey K. Olick (Virginia), Marianne
 Hirsch (Columbia) and Leo Spitzer (Dartmouth) on memory studies, and Kath Woodward (Open
 University) and Gerardine Meaney (UCD) on identity studies. In 2020, Alison Landsberg (George
 Mason University) was selected as University Global Fellow attached to the Institute.

 In 2015, CRSCEES (director: Donovan) replaced its annual conference with a seminar series on
 interdisciplinary themes (‘Society and Spectacle’ 2015-16, ‘The Art of Revolution’ 2016-17,
 ‘Minor Matters’ 2017-18, ‘Digital and Public Humanities’ 2018-19). The seminar series has
 invited a range of world-leading cultural practitioners, commentators, journalists and academics,
 including Leonid Parfenov (film director), Peter Pomerantsev (journalist and author), Andrei
 Kurkov (author), Shaun Walker (journalist) and Steve Smith (academic). In 2018-19, the Centre
 initiated an annual Honorary Lecture, a reading group bringing together academic staff and
 postgraduate students, and an annual essay prize with undergraduate and postgraduate
 categories.

 From 2010 to 2019, the School also hosted the interdisciplinary Institute for Contemporary
 and Comparative Literature (ICCL) led by Hutton. In 2015, ICCL secured a Leverhulme
 Visiting Professor Award in 2015 for Lionel Ruffel (Paris 8), a Leverhulme International Network
 Grant (2018-2019) and set up the Writers and Translators in Residence programme in 2017.
 The ICCL supported the establishment of teaching and research in the cross-departmental unit
 of Comparative Literature, which is now firmly embedded in the School and has its own research
 budget.

 In 2017, the School launched the ‘Modern Languages Writers and Translators in Residence
 Programme’, which has hosted Carol Adlam (UK), Laura Freixas (Spain), Christian Lehnert
 (Germany), Thomas Meinecke (Germany), Emmanuelle Pireyre (France) and Naghmeh Samini
 (Iran). These creative practitioners add a practice-based perspective to research in
 contemporary literature and translation studies. Each is invited to produce a blog during their
 residency and Samini wrote a play that was given a public reading by staff and students in the
 School. All visiting writers and translators host research seminars, and work with postgraduate
 and undergraduate students. They are also encouraged to participate in our Byre World
 programme (see below). Meinecke, for example, participated in a public event on ‘Emotions and
 Gender in Techno and Electronic Dance Music Culture’ with DJ and activist Nightwave.

 Our two most recent research centres are the Cross Cultural Circa Nineteenth Century
 Centre (c19c) and the Centre for Poetic Innovation (CPI). Founded in 2016, the CPI (director:
 Laügt) is a cross-institutional and cross-disciplinary collaboration with colleagues at the
 University of Dundee, which aims to foster research on contemporary poetry and poetry criticism
 (in French, English and Scots) through non-academic engagement and impact activities, grant
 applications and research events. A recent post-doctoral fellow and former PhD student of the
 Centre, Dr Alice Tarbuck, was awarded the Scottish Book Trust New Writers Award in 2019.

 The Cross Cultural Circa Nineteenth Century Centre (c19c) was founded by Orr in 2018 as a
 Modern Languages-led cross-disciplinary centre that would facilitate interdisciplinary and

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 intercultural research working in nineteenth-century fields. It organises lunchtime seminars and
 invited guest lectures. The first guest lecture was delivered by Markéta Krizová (Prague) and the
 Centre will host the international conference of the Société des Dix-Neuviémistes in 2021.

 In recognition of the changing nature of research in the School, and in Modern Languages
 nationally, we have designed a new format for our School seminar series to generate research
 synergies across and beyond our language disciplines. Our ‘New Directions in Modern
 Languages’ research seminar series brings together scholars from all our language disciplines to
 reflect on new directions being taken in different areas of Modern Languages research. These
 have so far focused on new directions in intermedial studies, postcolonial studies, theatre
 studies, eco-criticism, medieval studies, gender and sexuality studies, and world literature. The
 series began in 2018-19 and will continue into the next REF census period. Departments also
 organise language-specific Research Activity Days once a year, funded by the School.

 Collaborative and interdisciplinary research extends far beyond our Centres and Institutes. Many
 colleagues in the School are closely involved in the work of a number of interdisciplinary centres
 and institutes across the University including: the Centre for Amerindian, Latin American, and
 Caribbean Studies; the Centre for Anatolian and East Mediterranean Studies; the Centre for
 Minorities Research; the St Andrews Institute of Medieval Studies; the Centre for French Culture
 and History (based in the School of History); Theoria: St Andrews Critical Theory Group (based
 in the School of English); the Centre for the Public Understanding of Greek and Roman Drama
 (based in Classics); the St Andrews Institute for Gender Studies; the Institute of Middle East,
 Central Asia and Caucasus Studies; and the Institute for Iranian Studies. The School is also
 represented in each of the University’s 6 priority areas for collaborative working across
 disciplines, as outlined in the Institution-Level Environment Statement (ILES, 2.5).

 (3) Extending the Reach of the Impact of our Research
 Since REF2014, the School has been building its commitment to impact and engagement
 outside academia, led by the Director of Impact. All colleagues are now formally required to
 propose impact or engagement plans when applying for institutional research leave. The
 successful expansion of impact across the School, coupled with an increase in grant capture has
 led to increased funding for a number of impact projects, several of which feed into our case
 studies for REF2021.

 Our innovative Byre World programme, which features 5 or 6 research-led public events per
 semester, is a key driver in the impact strategy we have developed since REF2014. All
 colleagues, including postgraduate students, are strongly encouraged to participate in these
 public events, which are held at the Byre Theatre, St Andrews. Our Byre World programme has
 been running successfully since September 2015 and is convened by the Director of Impact.
 Events range from art exhibitions, film screenings, and musical and dance performances, to
 participatory workshops, interviews and discussion events, each of them organised and led by a
 research-active member of staff or a PhD student. Working with the team at the Byre Theatre,
 we have used their ticketing system to capture valuable information about who is coming to our
 events and to target, develop and monitor new audiences.

 For colleagues who are new to impact, the Byre World programme offers the ideal space for
 seeding impact plans. Information on impact and the case studies being developed by the
 School is disseminated in Impact Away Days. At the most recent away day, the School was

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 advised by colleagues working in the creative industries on how best to package academic
 research in order to continue to reach new audiences in Scotland and beyond.

 Beneficiaries of our impact case studies include: creative practitioners, notably artists,
 photographers and musicians; heritage practitioners in Mexico, Ukraine, Scotland and
 Wales; archives in Rwanda, Ukraine, Scotland and Wales; and an international NGO, the Aegis
 Trust. More broadly, our case studies have had an impact on internet users across the world as
 well as on people learning about their own communities. For example, in 2019, Donovan used
 her British Academy Rising Star Engagement Award to invite 21 scholars from the EU, Russia
 and Ukraine to discuss research ethics and the politics of public engagement, drawing on her
 New Generation Thinkers experience and on the public engagement experience of other
 colleagues in the School.

 OPEN RESEARCH ENVIRONMENT
 Our commitment to an open research culture is evidenced in our institutional membership of the
 new Modern Languages Open platform launched by Liverpool University Press, which covers
 APC charges for accepted publications from St Andrews. As series editor for MLO’s
 Comparative Literature series, Bond is a champion of Open Access publishing in our School.
 McGlazer is Associate Editor on the open access journal, Critical Times: Interventions in Global
 Critical Theory published by Duke University Press. One of the monographs submitted to
 REF2021 is one of the first to be published through a new Open Access collaboration between
 ‘Knowledge Unlatched’ and Berghahn Books.

 We want our outputs to be easy to discover and share. In line with university policy, all staff are
 strongly encouraged to have ORCiDS: 100% of Category A staff in Modern Languages now
 have an ORCiD linked to their profile in PURE.

 RESEARCH INTEGRITY
 As a member of the University’s Research Integrity Committee and the Global Challenges
 Forum, Hitchcott has been involved in delivering University-wide training on research integrity
 and serves as contact point for the School. The University’s Research Integrity Policy is included
 in the research pages of our annually-revised Staff Handbook. Research project applications are
 reviewed by the School’s Ethics Committee to ensure that staff and research students adhere to
 the University’s principles of good research. The Committee is chaired by the School’s Ethics
 Officer who reports to the University Teaching and Research Ethics Committee (UTREC).

 FUTURE STATEGIC PRIORITIES
 Over the next REF census period we will:

 (1) further extend the range of our expertise and the diversity of research in our School
  We will continue to grow the number of Postdoctoral Researchers through both large grants and
 individual fellowships, and to ensure the integration of our Early Career Researchers through
 comprehensive induction and robust mentoring.

 Our new Department of Chinese Studies will create more opportunities for attracting research
 staff and students, fostering collaborations and interdisciplinary projects.




                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (2) further extend the reach of the impact of our research
 Impact and engagement will continue to form a central part of our School’s research strategy.
 In addition to the 4 case studies submitted to REF2021, which will continue to generate impact
 beyond the census date, new projects are already emerging. One example is a new project to
 create a graphic novel based on a 19th-century Russian work of crime fiction (Whitehead) in
 collaboration with a professional illustrator. This project has been seed-funded by the
 University’s Knowledge Exchange and Impact fund, and the illustrator (Carol Adlam) was our
 writer in residence in 2019-20.

 We will continue to work with our partners at the Byre Theatre to optimise the impact of our
 research on the general public.

 (3) further increase research income by prioritising large funding applications
 Building on the School’s success in smaller grant and fellowship schemes, we will encourage
 even more colleagues to submit larger funding applications. We are working on a scheme to
 incentivise larger applications and have devised a School-specific grant checklist to support
 applicants through the application process.

 Three large research projects will start or continue in the next REF census period: Duncan’s
 ‘Loose Ends: Minor Transnational Italian Cultures’ (funded by a Leverhulme Major Research
 Fellowship) began in September 2019 along with Arens’ BA Early Career postdoctoral
 Fellowship project, ‘Constructing a Geopolitics of Nationhood: Belgium’s Scientific and Cultural
 Colonial Project (1830-1958)’. Donovan’s new project, ‘Donbas in Focus’ (funded by an AHRC
 ECR Leadership Fellowship) will begin in January 2021.


 Section 2. People

 PEOPLE STRATEGY
 We follow the principles laid out in Vitae’s Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers and, by focusing on continuous improvement in policies and practice, aim to
 maintain a positive research culture in which all researchers feel valued and supported to
 achieve their full potential (ILES, 3). For example, in 2019-20, our research leave policy was
 extended to include colleagues in Arabic and Persian who had had limited access to research
 leave earlier in the census period because of staffing issues. To facilitate this, the University
 approved a new permanent Associate Lectureship in Arabic (Education-focused) and a new
 permanent Associate Lecturer in Persian (Education-focused). These appointments have
 eased teaching pressure on staff and ensured that all research-active colleagues can now apply
 for research leave. Growing research culture in this department continues to be a strategic
 priority and we aim to appoint a new Chair in Arabic in the next census period.

 Our people strategy for research supports the three prongs of our overall strategy: maintaining
 excellent coverage, fostering interdisciplinarity and collaboration, and extending the reach of our
 impact:

 (1) Maintaining Excellent Coverage
 This is a research-intensive School with 45.5FTE Category A staff: 11.5 Professors, 4 Readers,
 9 Senior Lecturers, 20 Lecturers and 1 British Academy Early Career post-doctoral fellow.

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Colleagues are distributed as follows: Arabic and Persian 5; Chinese 1; French 13; German 6;
 Italian 6; Russian 5; Spanish 9.5. There are a further 19 members of staff on education-focused
 contracts, including a DAAD Lektorin, an ÖAD Lektorin and 6 native-speaker language
 assistants (2 in French, 1 in German, 2 in Spanish, 1 in Russian). We have employed 7 contract
 researchers on funded projects during the census period. Despite the current UK climate and in
 line with University policy, the School makes a conscious effort to avoid precarious contracts
 except where temporary staff are needed to support funded research projects or to cover
 internal secondments or absence due to personal circumstances.




 In REF2014, we articulated our commitment to increasing the number of senior leaders and
 have appointed 5 new externally-recruited chairs: in Chinese (1); French (2); German (1), and
 Spanish (1); a further 3 colleagues have been internally promoted to the rank of professor. This
 means that the number of chairs in the School has more than doubled in the census period,
 increasing from 5 to 11.5. At the same time, we have continued to appoint new emerging
 research talent, recruiting a total of 11 new Early Career Researchers in the period across
 each of our six departments: 4 in French; 1 in German; 1 in Spanish; 2 in Russian; 2 in Italian;
 and 1 in Arabic.

 The number of Category A staff in the School has grown since REF2014 (45.5FTE in 2020
 compared to 41 in 2014). We have made 16 new and replacement academic appointments in
 the census period. 14 colleagues have been internally promoted in the period: 7 to Senior
 Lecturer; 4 to Reader; 3 to Professor.

 We have maintained disciplinary spread through new appointments in Medieval Studies; Early
 Modern Studies; the Eighteenth Century, Nineteenth-Century Studies, the Twentieth Century
 and the Twenty-First Century; and in Classical and Modern Arabic studies where a colleague on
 a fixed-term contract was recruited to a permanent post.

 (2) Fostering Interdisciplinary and Collaborative Research
 In the census period, we have made new appointments in the interdisciplinary fields of Cinema
 Studies, Cultural and Queer studies, Memory Studies, History of Science, Gender Studies and


                                                                                           Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Postcolonial Studies. Our new chair in Chinese Studies (Lee) will expand our expertise in
 Transcultural Studies and Visual Cultures.

 (3) Extending the Reach of the Impact of our Research
 Our strategic emphasis on impact and engagement means that activities are carried out by
 members of the School at all career stages. We developed 6 impact case studies during the
 REF census period, 4 of which form part of our REF2021 submission. Of the 4 submitted, 2 are
 authored by Professors and 2 by a Senior Lecturer/Reader. Impact is now a key criterion in
 University promotion applications and 2 of our case study authors were promoted in the census
 period. Our commitment to encouraging new appointments to develop an impact strategy has
 led to one of our Early Career Researchers (Smith) being named an AHRC New Generation
 Thinker in 2019 for his research on feelings associated with Berlin’s techno music scene. This
 follows the nomination of Donovan as a New Generation Thinker in 2016 and her more recent
 British Academy Rising Star Engagement Award (2019).

 STAFF DEVELOPMENT AND MENTORING
 All research-active colleagues are mentored and supported by the Director of Research (DoR)
 who discusses plans for outputs and funding. Impact plans are discussed with the Director of
 Impact. ECR colleagues are always offered a research dialogue with the DoR in their first year of
 appointment. Research plans and research training needs are further discussed and monitored
 by the Head of School in annual Academic Review and Development meetings. Staff are
 supported in promotion applications by the members of the School Management Committee who
 read and provide feedback on draft applications.

 All new staff, including those on short-term and temporary contracts, are allocated a mentor
 who advises on research and teaching matters. This academic mentoring continues throughout
 the new colleague’s probationary period. All research-active colleagues are invited to join our
 informal peer reading group, in which colleagues review one another’s draft outputs prior to
 submission for publication. This group includes staff at all career stages and membership is
 voluntary. There is also an informal theory discussion group, which is open to all.

 Beyond the School, colleagues participate as mentors and mentees in the Aurora women’s
 network, the pan-Scotland academic mentoring scheme (TRAMS), and the Elizabeth Garrett
 Programme for senior women, which is unique to St Andrews (ILES, 3.2). Hitchcott is a member
 of the founding committee of SWISTA, an informal support network for senior female staff across
 the University.

 All colleagues on permanent research-focused contracts (full- and part-time) are invited to apply
 for institutional research and/or impact leave (ILES, 4.1). The School offers an accelerated
 research leave scheme of 1 in 6 semesters to reward strong performance in research and
 impact; the entitlement of part-time colleagues is calculated on a pro-rata basis. This is above
 the standard university expectation of 1 in 8 semesters. Applications and reports on leave are
 evaluated and approved by the Research Strategy Group to ensure that research goals are
 completed, with strong research and impact performances noted. Despite timetabling pressures,
 the School’s Management Committee ensures that all research staff have one research day a
 week free of teaching and administration.




                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Temporary research staff are fully integrated into the research culture of the School and have
 the same internal funding entitlements as permanent members of staff. Arens was appointed as
 a temporary lecturer in 2017-18 to cover Prest’s Leverhulme Fellowship. She was then
 supported in her successful application for a British Academy ECR Fellowship in our School,
 which she secured in 2019.



 POSTGRADUATE RESEARCH STUDENTS
 During the REF census period, there has been an average of 20.4FTE registered postgraduate
 research students in the School in each year. We have awarded 39 PhDs in the census period.
 The gender balance of PhDs awarded each year ranges from 50% of degrees being awarded to
 female students to 83%.

 We are committed to providing an inclusive and supportive environment for our postgraduate
 researchers. They are integrated into all aspects of research culture in our School.
 Postgraduates attend research events and are strongly encouraged to organise events
 themselves. Since 2011, PGR students have organised annual interdisciplinary workshops and
 conferences with financial support from the School. They have held 6 postgraduate colloquia
 in the census period: ‘The Contemporary and its Histories’ (2014); ‘Dialogues of Power’ (2016);
 ‘Illustration’ (2017); ‘Body Narratives’ (2018); ‘Moving Memories’ (2019) and ‘Memory and
 Identity in Latin America and the Caribbean’ (2019). In consultation with the University’s
 Disability Team, the School’s Disability Officer ensures that reasonable adjustments are made to
 ensure that disabled postgraduate students can fully participate in all aspects of research culture
 in the School.

 Postgraduate students of Italian have twice hosted the Society for Italian Studies annual national
 postgraduate conference here at St Andrews. French postgraduates participate in the ‘Franco-
 Scottish Research Network in the Humanities and Social Sciences’, a collaborative project
 between the French Institute and the Universities of Edinburgh, Glasgow and St Andrews. Laügt
 and Hugueny-Léger were instrumental in setting up this network, which organises an annual
 interdisciplinary seminar where PhD students working at the three institutions are invited to
 present their work, along with a keynote speaker from France and three or four of their doctoral
 students.

 Training for Postgraduates
 Postgraduate research students have access to School research and travel funding (up to
 £600 per annum) and until 2019 were able to apply for a further £600 for research mobility from
 the Santander travel fund. As a group, the postgraduate student body is allocated £1,000 per
 year from School funds for the organisation of PGR-led research events. PGRs are also strongly
 encouraged to participate in our Byre World programme, which provides an opportunity for
 them to think about how to communicate their research beyond academia. Events at the Byre
 organised by PGR students have included ‘Pop-up Poets’, and ‘Pelagos with Mirco Bondi’. Each
 year, the School employs postgraduate students to support research activities in CRSCEES and
 CIMS. Two PGR students also work with the Director of Impact on Byre World where they gain
 experience of putting together a programme of events and liaising with the theatre.

 All our postgraduate students follow an in-house teaching training programme developed and
 delivered by the School, which complements the University’s generic GRADSKills programme.

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This bespoke Modern Languages-specific programme includes observation of undergraduate
 teaching as well as weekly sessions on topics such as lesson planning, classroom management,
 and marking and assessment. All postgraduate researchers are given the opportunity to provide
 undergraduate teaching at sub-honours level. Their teaching is observed by someone other than
 their supervisor and constructive feedback given.

 Students funded by the Scottish Graduate School for the Arts and Humanities (SGSAH) have
 access to a raft of training opportunities. Our Early Career colleague, Smith is co-lead on the
 SGSAH knowledge exchange hub ‘Culture, Citizenship and Ethics’, which provides training
 sessions, workshops and other opportunities for PGR students across Scotland.

 PGR students in Modern Languages also generate their own in-School research skills
 training programme where they invite academic staff to provide lunchtime sessions relating to
 their self-identified training needs. These have included sessions on REF2021 and on research
 ethics; a thesis boot camp, and a publishing workshop. In addition, postgraduates organise their
 own work-in-progress seminars where they present to one another as well as to academic
 colleagues. Workshops for postgraduates are also offered by our Centres and Institute with both
 external and internal speakers (e.g. Dr Sharon Deane-Cox (Edinburgh) on ‘Working Towards a
 Post-Doc’ and Prof Karen Pinkus (Cornell) on publishing). Since 2014, all PGR students have
 been auditing the School’s MLitt module, ‘Research and Professional Skills’, which covers
 practical research issues such as applying for funding, creating research posters and organising
 a conference.

 Postgraduate Studies matters are discussed at the Postgraduate Student Staff Council
 (PGSSC), which is chaired by a PGR Executive Representative elected by the postgraduate
 student body. The Executive Representative also attends meetings of the School Postgraduate
 Committee, the School Research Committee, and represents the School at University-wide
 Postgraduate Executive Forums.

 PGR Supervision and Monitoring
 All PGR students have a principal and secondary supervisor, the latter providing primarily
 pastoral care and support. Where expertise in more than one subject area is required, students
 are co-supervised (intra- or inter-School). 13 of those graduating in the census period were co-
 supervised with another School in the University (Art History, History, International Relations and
 Social Anthropology).

 A minimum of 10 supervisory meetings are held each year with agreed action points formally
 recorded. Compulsory training for new supervisors is provided centrally by the University and
 by the Scottish Graduate School for the Arts and Humanities for SGSAH-funded projects.

 Progress of research students is monitored through annual review meetings with 2 members of
 academic staff who have not been involved in supervision. Students submit a review portfolio
 which, depending on the year of study, can include a sample of work, the year’s supervision
 forms, and reflective reports on a selection of School research seminars, which all postgraduate
 students are required to attend. Practice vivas are organised for students who have submitted
 their thesis. We continue to mentor and support our research students after graduation. The
 University St Leonard’s Associateships scheme (launched in 2017-18) offers honorary status for
 eligible doctoral students to continue their association with the University as they take their first

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 steps into a post-doctoral career. Associates benefit from access to University services and
 facilities, including a University email address, for twelve months after they graduate.

 PGRs are strongly encouraged to disseminate their research findings and have published books
 with academic presses including Legenda, Routledge and Palgrave Macmillan as well as articles
 in peer-reviewed journals such as Italian Studies, Memory Studies and the Bulletin of Spanish
 Studies. PhD graduate, Dr Brigid Lynch shared the AHGBI (Association of Hispanists of Great
 Britain and Ireland)/Spanish Embassy Publication Prize for her thesis, ‘Dialogues of Historicity
 and Horizontalism in Post-Crisis Argentine Narratives’, which was published by Legenda in
 2019. Another PhD graduate, Dr Karunika Kardak, was runner-up for the same prize in 2020.


 PGRs who have graduated during the census period have gone on to pursue a range of careers,
 including as: university lecturers (Queen’s University Belfast, University of Surrey, University
 College Cork, Koç University, Turkey); Research Fellows (IMLR; Marie Curie Fellowship at
 Sorbonne Nouvelle; Stato Maggiore dell’Esercito Italiano; University of St Andrews); impact
 research associate (University of Nottingham); university administrator (University College
 Dublin); and to work for the Scottish Government and the British Council.


 EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY
 A significant number of colleagues in the School are engaged in research on questions of
 equality, diversity and inclusion, notably gender (7); sexuality (5); ‘race’ and ethnicity (11);
 and mental health (3). In 2014, Prest organised a University-wide discussion event on ‘Gender
 Equality in Academia: Myth or Reality?’ Smith took part in a panel on ‘Queer Academia’
 organised by the student associations’ LGBT+ sub-committee and, with colleagues from Bristol
 and Oxford, is part of the ‘Expanding German Studies’ resource, which aims to develop, expand
 and diversify the German Studies curriculum across the UK through the development of a
 database of works by or about under-represented and historically marginalised groups. Smith
 and Vaysman are both members of the Oxford Torch Queer Studies Network. 11 members of
 the School participate in the recently founded cross-disciplinary St Andrews Institute for Gender
 Studies (STAIGS) and will be contributing to its new MLitt programme starting in 2020-21;
 Bildhauer and O’Leary are members of the STAIGS Management Committee. In 2019, Prest
 received funding from the University’s Gender, Diversity and Inclusion fund to write slavery and
 slave ownership into the University’s Special Collections catalogue. This project cross-
 references our existing archival records with the Legacies of British Slave Ownership database.
 Bildhauer is Co-Investigator on the interdisciplinary RSE-funded network, ‘Ending Period
 Poverty’, which has so far organised three public workshops on menstruation and was
 previously funded by the Wellcome Trust.

 Whereas in REF2014 the number of eligible male staff was higher than the number of female
 academics, the School now has an almost equal ratio of female to male colleagues in its
 Category A staff. This equality is reflected in the professoriate which has a 50/50 female/male
 split.

 We have followed the University’s Code of Practice in our preparations for REF2021. All REF-
 eligible staff were asked to complete a form detailing whether they have individual
 circumstances that should be taken into account. All members of the Research Strategy Group
 responsible for reviewing outputs were required to complete the University’s ‘Diversity in the
 Workplace’ and ‘Unconscious Bias’ training modules. The DoR, DoI and Head of School all
                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 completed the ‘Equalities in the REF’ training along with the Director of Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion (DoEDI). Outputs were blind reviewed by a gender-balanced pair of colleagues
 wherever possible. In reviewing outputs, we used a scoring scale that allowed uncertainties to
 be expressed. The final selection of outputs was based on research quality, but with attention
 paid to ensuring that the basket of outputs represented the staff profile of the School, particularly
 with respect to protected characteristics.

 In 2017, we created the School’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Committee. It is led by
 the DoEDI who also sits on the School Management Committee. In 2019-20 the School
 prepared its submission for an Athena Swan Bronze Award (outcome pending).

 All staff research activities are treated equally. Workload allocations are published on the staff
 intranet and allow equal research time for all Category A staff, regardless of rank. Colleagues
 with key administrative roles are given a reduction in teaching contact time (which varies
 according to role) to ensure that their responsibilities do not impinge on research time. School
 administrative roles are advertised to all colleagues and the allocation of roles monitored in
 terms of gender and career stage. Workload allocations are managed by the School’s Director of
 Teaching in consultation with the Head of School. In our submission for the Athena Swan
 Bronze Award we committed to a review of the workload allocation model in the School to
 ensure that 40% of staff time continues to be ring-fenced for research.

 The School research leave rota is overseen by the School Management Committee. Periods of
 parental leave, sick leave or other paid institutional leave are counted in the same way as
 periods of service and so do not affect entitlement to apply for research leave.

 The School honours the University policy of having no standing meetings outside the core hours
 of 10 and 4 to accommodate staff and PGR students with school-aged children. PGR
 supervisions are arranged at times that are mutually convenient for staff and students. Research
 events are deliberately scheduled at variable times of the day to facilitate attendance for those
 with caring or other personal commitments and to maximise attendance from across the School.
 We also try to ensure that speakers invited to our research seminars and engagement events
 are from a range of career stages and gender balanced. A number of our events have focused
 specifically on issues of equality and diversity. For example, in 2019, Bowd organised a French
 Research Activity Day on ‘Diversifying French Studies’.


 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 INCOME
 In REF2014 we articulated our aim to grow funding applications and grant capture. During the
 census period, the total annual value of grant applications has increased from £260k to £5.1m.
 Our strategic focus on increasing grant capture has yielded results: our research income by
 spend has totalled £2.4m during the census period, an increase of £1.8m since REF2014.

 Colleagues in the School are supported at all stages of grant applications by the Director of
 Research. In addition, we have created a School grant mentoring database, which allows
 colleagues to be allocated an individual grant mentor who has had prior success with the
 relevant funding scheme.

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Our increased success in funding applications reflects our three strategic research priorities:

 (1) Maintaining Excellent Research Coverage
 Colleagues have received project funding from a number of language specific disciplines: the
 Alexander Humboldt Foundation (Bildhauer),the British Institute for Persian Studies
 (Talajooy) the Fritz Thyssen Foundation (White), Society for French Studies (Hugueny-
 Léger), Italian Cultural Institute (Bond, Riccobono), Society for Italian Studies (Bond,
 Duncan); as well as from national bodies for the Arts and Humanities and Social Sciences:
 AHRC (Donovan, Duncan, Hitchcott), British Academy (Fowler, Donovan, Prest), ERC
 (Dmitriev), the British Council (Fowler, Hutton), the IMLR (Duncan, McGlazer, Rossignoli,
 Osborne), the Wellcome Trust (Bergman), Leverhulme Trust (Hutton); and from Scottish
 funders: the Royal Society of Edinburgh (Bildhauer, Bond, Laügt), the Scottish Funding
 Council, (Donovan), the Carnegie Trust (Anipa, Bond, Bowd, Donovan, Herdman, Hugueny-
 Léger, Smith), and the Scottish Funding Council (Donovan).

 In 2016, Prest held a funded fellowship at the Institute for Advanced Study, University of
 Durham, and Kefala at Dumbarton Oaks, Harvard. The Leverhulme Trust has funded 4
 individual Research Fellowships in the census period (Allan, Bildhauer, Prest and Whitehead)
 and a Major Research Fellowship for Duncan. In 2019, Bond was awarded a Philip
 Leverhulme Prize.

 (2) Fostering Interdisciplinary and Collaborative Research
 Our 6 large interdisciplinary research projects (see Section 4 below) have all attracted
 competitive funding in the period: Transnationalizing Modern Languages (Duncan, Co-I) £69,067
 from AHRC, and £16,833 from AHRC GCRF follow-on funding; Rwandan Stories of Change
 (Hitchcott, PI) £234,267 from AHRC to St Andrews (transferred in October 2016); Leverhulme
 International Network for Contemporary Studies (Hutton, PI) £86,297 from Leverhulme;
 Hughesovka and Donbas (Donovan, PI) £24,623 from Scottish Funding Council GCRF Fund;
 ‘Language, Philology, Culture: Arab Cultural Semantics in Translation’ (Dmitriev, PI) £1,061,560
 from ERC FP7; and St Andrews-Mexico Project (Fowler, PI) £8,000 from British Council. Of
 these, 4 have generated impact case studies, 3 of which have been submitted to REF2021.

 (3) Extending the Reach and Impact of our Research
 Financial support for impact is provided by the University’s Knowledge Exchange and Impact
 (KEI) fund, established in 2016-17 (ILES, 2.3). Colleagues make a formal application to the
 fund, which is supported by the Director of Impact. The School has received 14 awards, totalling
 £64,373, from the KEI fund in the census period. For example, Hugueny-Léger used the fund to
 set up a fully searchable bilingual website of bio-bibliographical resources on Annie Ernaux.

 The allocation of internal School funding for research also reflects our research strategy, with
 funds allocated to both department-specific and School-wide events: departments are allocated
 £1,000 per annum for research activities; £3k is allocated to School research institutes; £6k to
 the School research seminar series; and £15k to our Byre World engagement programme.
 Authors of our impact case studies have received a 10% reduction in their teaching allocation to
 free-up time for impact activities.




                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School currently commits a substantial portion of its annual operational budget to the
 Research and Travel Fund, which offers each member of research staff up to £1,200 each year
 for research and impact activities (an increase of 20% since 2014). A budget of up to £1,000 has
 been provided by the School for each Byre World event. Postdoctoral Fellows and colleagues on
 education-focused contracts have an annual entitlement of up to £600 for research and travel
 from the School. Requests for additional funds are presented to the School Research Committee
 and are assessed on a case-by-case basis, e.g. Bildhauer received funding for image
 permissions in her monograph.

 Postgraduate Scholarships
 In recognition of its research excellence, the School has received prestigious funding for one
 postgraduate scholarship each year from the Wolfson Foundation since 2017-18. The School
 itself allocates funding for one full PhD scholarship (fees plus maintenance) per annum.
 Between 2013 and 2019 (when the fund ceased), our postgraduate students received 21
 individual travel awards from the School’s Santander fund totalling £10,693.

 To mark the University’s 600th birthday in 2013, 3 students in the School were awarded internal
 Seventh Century funding. In 2019, the University launched a suite of competitive PhD
 scholarships linked to the strategic priority areas for interdisciplinary research. Colleagues in the
 School secured 2 of these fully-funded studentships: one co-supervised with the Centre for
 Exoplanet Science; the other with Social Anthropology.

 Four of our research students have come to the School with scholarships from their home
 countries in the Middle East (Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and Jordan); 3 were sponsored by the
 Mexican government fund CONAYCT. 5 PGR students in the School have been supported by
 the AHRC/Scottish Graduate School for Arts and Humanities (SGSAH) in the census period.



 INFRASTRUCTURE
 All research staff have individual offices with networked computers upgraded every 4 or 5 years,
 printing facilities and photocopying/scanning/digital recording facilities. Interlibrary loan access is
 free to staff and unlimited. All research students have 24-hour-access to individual workstations
 either in the School (Buchanan Building) or in the nearby Bute Building. Each space includes a
 networked computer, lockable storage and printing facilities. Study spaces are also provided in
 the University Library and the Thomson Research Reading Room of the Martyrs Kirk Research
 Library, which is accessible only to PGR students and staff.

 The DoR is supported by a Research Administrator (0.6FTE). She provides support to the
 DoR on all research-related matters, including REF, and assists all colleagues with planning
 research events and budgets. A second member of our Professional Services team assists with
 research expenses and supports the School’s research Centres and Institute. In addition, we
 have access to a designated team in Finance Advice and Support to advise on costings for grant
 applications and post-award reporting, and a named Research Business Development Manager
 who adds an additional layer of support, identifying potential funders and advising on grant
 applications.

 Funded by IT Services but line-managed by the School Manager, the School Computing
 Officer provides a range of support, including: maintaining computers and other IT equipment

                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for all staff and dealing with any hardware and software issues; constructing microsites
 promoting impact and research projects and conferences; advertising research events on social
 media (Twitter, Facebook), updating the School website with research activities, maintaining
 individual staff and PG research pages, and assisting with teleconferencing and collaborative
 services as required. All research staff can access University support units for advanced web
 design, digital recording, and podcasting (Digital Communications Team, Media Team); IT-
 related grant application support (Research Computing Team).

 FACILITIES
 Byre Theatre
 The Byre Theatre has been managed by the University in collaboration with Fife Council since
 October 2014. An important part of its remit is to ensure that the needs and interests of the wider
 community are met through its programming. In 2015, the School of Modern Languages was the
 first in the University to set up a collaborative public engagement programme with the theatre:
 Byre World.

 The Byre has two theatre spaces: a main auditorium with 216 seats; and a flexible studio space
 with 80 seats and a film screen. There is also a conference room, a café, and an exhibition
 space in the main theatre foyer. As well as our Byre World events, the School regularly hosts
 academic conferences in the different spaces at the Byre and has mounted exhibitions such as
 ‘Human Zoos’ in the theatre foyer.

 Library
 The School benefits from dedicated central library funding for new books in Modern Languages.
 Our annual book budget is £44k, which is around 12.5% of the University’s total book budget.
 Journal subscriptions are paid from a central fund of just under £3m per year.

 Whilst annual funding ensures that standard acquisitions relating to both staff and postgraduate
 research interests can be maintained, Research Enhancement Bids during the census period
 have allowed the Library to make important strategic purchases for the School of Modern
 Languages, including electronic access to Pravda (2015/16), and a complete set of subtitled
 DVDs of the DEFA studio’s output plus extensive secondary material on East German film
 (2017-18) to support Allan’s and Smith’s research and that of a PhD student. In total, the School
 has benefited from £28,437 of Research Enhancement funding in the census period.

 On Lee’s appointment as Founding Chair of Chinese Studies, the Library arranged for his 1800-
 volume China-related book collection to be collected from France and transported to St Andrews
 where it will be catalogued and shelved in the main University Library. The collection is 80%
 Chinese, 20% Western language and concerns modern and contemporary Chinese literature
 and culture.

 The Library has continued to build the Uruguay collection, which is one of the strongest in any
 university library outside Uruguay. San Román’s own research on Uruguayan literature has
 benefitted from the holdings, as have 5 PGR students working on Uruguayan culture. The
 collection includes the multi-volume Revista Histórica and Archivo Artigas.

 Major nineteenth-century holdings in the Library and Special Collections support the work of the
 new Centre for Cross-Cultural c19c studies, including the research on the (French) histories and

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 cultures of nineteenth-century sciences and letters of both its founder (Orr) and our Honorary
 Professor, Robert Lethbridge (a Zola specialist).

 Fernández’s website on the journalism of Spanish avant-garde writer Ramón Gómez de la
 Serna is maintained by the University Library and its team of specialists in Digital Humanities.
 This project is supported by the National Library of Spain and the Hemeroteca Municipal de
 Madrid.

 The Library also hosts the University of St Andrews-AHRC “Pronunciamiento in Independent
 Mexico, 1821-1876” relational-database, holding over 1500 transcribed pronunciamiento texts
 and related documents from nineteenth-century Mexico.

 Prest’s ‘Theatre in Saint-Domingue, 1764-91’ performance database (funded by a
 BA/Leverhulme Small Research Grant and hosted by the University) was developed in
 partnership with Library staff. The database allows users to search for works and performances
 using multiple variables and in three languages (English-French-Haitian Creole).

 There is a designated Senior Academic Liaison Librarian working in the University Library who
 facilitates ordering and provides training for new staff and postgraduate researchers in the
 School (e.g. one-on-one sessions on bibliographic software systems and advanced literature
 searches). Following user consultation and best practice guidance, a new library management
 system was introduced in January 2019. It incorporates new functionality which allows users to
 search many of the University’s collections.

 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH COLLABORATIONS, NETWORKS AND PARTNERSHIPS
 The School has hosted 6 flagship international collaborative projects in the census period:

 Transnationalizing Modern Languages (TML), one of three large grants awarded under the
 AHRC’s Translating Cultures scheme, was a collaboration across the Universities of Bristol,
 Cardiff, Queen Margaret, St Andrews and Warwick (2014-16; Co-I: Duncan). Its key international
 partners were the Archivio Memorie Migranti, (Rome); Centro Altreitalie–Globus et Locus (Turin);
 Calandra Institute (New York), Co.As.It (Melbourne); Drummond and Castlebrae Community
 High Schools (Edinburgh); Universidad Nacional de Argentina (Buenos Aires); and the Italian
 Culture Institutes in London and Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. With follow-on funding from the Global
 Challenges Research Fund and in collaboration with the University of Namibia, TML has
 pursued work on strategies for language teaching in the multilingual classroom in Namibia
 (2016-18).

 Building on funding (Arts Council Wales) obtained for her project on the Hughesovka story,
 Donovan’s SFC GCRF-funded (ILES, 2.3) project, ‘De-industrialisation and Conflict in
 Donbas: Capacity Building in Ukraine to Make Donbas (Mono)Towns Inclusive, Safe, Resilient
 and Sustainable’ (2018-19) is a collaboration with 2 Ukrainian leaders in the field of Donbas
 studies: Iryna Sklokina (Centre for Urban History of East Central Europe, Lviv) and Dmitry
 Chepurnoy (Project Coordinator of Donbas Studies and ZMINA: Impulse projects at Izolyatsiya:
 Platform for Cultural Initiatives, Kyiv).



                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Funded by an EU FP7 ERC Starting Grant, Dmitriev’s project, ‘Language, Philology, Culture:
 Arab Cultural Semantics in Translation’ (2013-18) has been carried out in partnership with
 the Institute for Systems Analysis of the Russian Academy of Sciences (Moscow) and the Arabic
 Papyrology Database (LUM Munich and Zurich University) and with collaborators and
 colleagues at Brigham Young University, Utah and the Universities of Haifa, Edinburgh,
 Cambridge, Munich and Marburg. The principal output of the project is the open access online
 Analytical Database of Arabic Poetry. Dmitriev was awarded a Friedrick Wilhelm Bessel Award
 from the Humboldt Foundation for this research.

 Fowler’s British Council funded St Andrews-Mexico project 2015-19 has involved the
 participation of 3 Scottish universities (St Andrews, Aberdeen and Glasgow) and 8 HEIs in
 Mexico (UNAM, Instituto Mora, El Colegio de México, BUAP, UV, Colegio de San Luis, UASLP,
 and Colegio de Jalisco), generating a cluster of research-led interdisciplinary colloquia on
 different aspects of UK-Mexico relations as well as 11 meta-research skills workshops for
 postgraduates and Early Career Researchers.

 Hitchcott’s AHRC-funded Rwandan Stories of Change project (2016-18) was a collaboration
 with the University of Nottingham, the international NGO, the Aegis Trust, and the Genocide
 Archive of Rwanda, Kigali. The project culminated in a major conference in 2018 with keynotes
 from author and genocide survivor Esther Mujawayo-Keiner and spoken-word poet Malaika
 Uwamahoro. The conference included a theatre performance from Théogène Niwenshuti and a
 concert by Iain Stewart and Jean-Paul Samputu (both open to the general public). Hitchcott was
 shortlisted for the inaugural Wellcome/AHRC Health Humanities Medal in the category of best
 international research for this project.

 Hutton’s Leverhulme International Network for Contemporary Studies (LINCS) (2015-19)
 began as a partnership with Ravi Sundaram (CSDS, Delhi), Lionel Ruffel (Paris 8), Johnny
 Rodger (Glasgow School of Art) and Bertrand Gervais (UQAM). LINCS has held academic
 conferences in Scotland, Canada, France and India. Academic collaborators included: Julieta
 Aranda; Bruno Latour; Françoise Vergès; Lisa Wedeen and Eyal Weizman. In 2018, LINCS
 hosted an interdisciplinary event, co-organised with Abertay and Glasgow universities, on
 ‘Literature and Video Games’, which brought together games designers, academics and the
 general public, and included a Game Jam.

 Our research environment is further enhanced by the University’s recently established strategic
 partnership with the Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität Bonn (one of just 11 German
 universities to have been awarded the highly-coveted ‘Exzellenz’ status). This involves regular
 research-exchange visits and joint PGR workshops (2019, Bonn; 2020, St Andrews). In 2020
 Universität Bonn funded a symposium involving colleagues from both institutions to develop joint
 funding bids (ILES, 2.7).

 In addition to these flagship projects, a large number of colleagues are involved in ongoing
 international research collaborations and activities. The international reach of our research and
 impact is indicated on the maps and chart below.




                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Map legend:
        Collaboration                     Conference organised

        Fellowship or visiting scholar    Invited paper

        Media appearance                  PhD examinership




                                                                 Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 NON-ACADEMIC PARTNERS, BENEFICIARIES AND AUDIENCES
 Beyond academia, our research has involved collaboration with a wide range of beneficiaries,
 including the general public, school pupils, teachers, psychotherapists and counsellors, and
 creative and heritage practitioners. The reach of our research and impact extends beyond
 Scotland and the UK to Europe, Africa and the Americas. Collaborations are indicated in brown
 on the maps above.

 Four of our research projects feature school pupils as key beneficiaries: Duncan’s
 ‘Transnationalizing Modern Languages’ project has transformed pedagogical practice in 2
 community high schools in Edinburgh (Drummond and Castlebrae); Donovan’s ‘Hughesovka’
 Project has promoted increased engagement in Welsh schools with matters relating to the
 migrant experience; Bond’s ‘Sugaropolis’ project has taken little-known but important elements
 of Scottish history to a range of schoolchildren in Scotland via workshops and interactive
 videogames; Prest’s ‘Translating Opera’ project has changed the widely-held perception among
 secondary-school pupils (in Edinburgh and Devon) of opera as an elite form. Prest’s innovative
 module on ‘Translating Opera’ has also led to an increase in the use of music in the teaching of
 translation in universities and schools as far afield as La Réunion, while Duncan is one of the
 editors of a series of books on ‘transnationalizing’ the study of languages and cultures, which are
 being adopted by universities across the UK.

 One project has brought considerable benefit to individuals and groups working to promote
 public well-being and mental health: Hitchcott’s project on post-traumatic growth following the
 1994 Genocide against the Tutsi has brought change not only to the Rwandan people directly
 affected by the genocide, but also to the way a range of psychotherapists and counsellors
 undertake their work and training.

 We have been working with the Byre Theatre and the University’s Director of Knowledge
 Exchange to diversify and optimise the way we capture our research and to ensure that Byre
 World events lead directly to changes in public understanding.




                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Creative and Heritage Practitioners
 The School has a strong history of engagement with creative and heritage practitioners. Hutton
 has co-organised a number of engagement events around contemporary authors, including: a
 creative arts competition, a public reading by Tom McCarthy (2016) and a short story master
 class for the general public with A L Kennedy (2018).

 Cobham’s translations of poems by Syrian-Palestinian poet Ghayath Almadhoun have been
 used in the creation of public artworks around the world. They were used by artist, Jenny Holzer
 at the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art, USA. The translations have also featured in
 the European Capital Cultural Programme, Aarhus, Denmark (2017), the Berlin Poetry Festival,
 Writers Unlimited (The Hague) and during a live fashion show to present the OFF-WHITE
 collection of Virgil Abloh at the Pitti Palace, Florence, Italy. Most recently, the translated poems
 have been used in an animated projection artwork at the Palazzodella Ragione in Bergamo, Italy
 and in a short documentary film created by Athens-based poet, Jazra Khaleed.

 In 2016, Bowd co-translated the catalogue for Michel Houellebecq’s personal art exhibition at the
 Palais de Tokyo, Paris, which featured Iggy Pop’s musical adaptation of Bowd’s translation of
 The Possibility of an Island. Bowd’s book, Fascist Scotland, inspired Denzil Meyrick’s best-
 selling crime novel Well of the Winds (2017), in which Bowd appears as a character. His
 translation of Houellebecq was adapted by Keiichiro Shibuya for his ‘Android Opera’, Scary
 Beauty, performed in Dusseldorf with the Japanese Philharmonic (2019). Also in 2019, Bowd’s
 translation of French-Algerian writer Sabri Louatah’s novel Savages: the Wedding was adapted
 for Radio4 Drama.

 In collaboration with colleagues at the University of Dundee, Bond has been working with
 heritage professionals in her ‘Transnational Scotland’ project. These include the Verdant Works
 (jute industry history museum, Dundee), the Scottish Fisheries Museum (Anstruther), the
 McLean Museum (Greenock), and the New Lanark Visitor Centre (Paisley). The project has built
 a sustainable network of local museums around the transnational history of Scotland’s global
 trades in cotton, jute, sugar and herring.

 The Centre for Poetic Innovation works closely with the Scottish Poetry Library and the St
 Andrews international poetry festival, StAnza (co-founded by Bowd). Vaysman has produced
 theatre programmes for Scottish National Opera; Prest for the National Theatre.

 In 2014, Bond and Duncan contributed to the national AHRC ‘Being Human’ festival with an
 exhibition ‘Migration Lives, Migration Stories’, and in 2019, a combined international conference
 and exhibition in Rome, ‘Press Play’, in partnership with the MACRO Museum of Contemporary
 Art, the British School in Rome, and the MAAM Museum of the Other and Elsewhere. Through
 the ‘Press Play’ project, Bond and Duncan worked closely with a number of international creative
 practitioners (artists Katia Kameli, Nikolaj Bendix Skyum Larsen, Justin Randolph Thompson,
 Malcolm Angelucci and Chris Caines).

 Hutton’s LINCS network has engaged with artists (including Kader Attia, Andreas Topfle and
 Martha Rosler); writers (Christopher Brookmyre, Natalie Quintane, Camille de Toledo, Kantura
 Quiros and Aliocha Imhoff, Maylis de Kerangal); games writers and designers (Judy Tyrer,
 Andy Payne, Rhianna Pratchett, Simon Meek); and architects, conservationists, curators and
 musicians from China, Dubai, Hong Kong, Israel, as well as from Europe and the USA.

                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Through his role as Co-I on the Transnationalizing Modern Languages project, Duncan has also
 led on a number of exhibitions, (‘Print Generation’, 2015; ‘Art in Translation’, 2016) and most
 recently ‘Conker’ in which pupils from Castlebrae Community School in Edinburgh explored
 different aspects of cultural translation through their creative practice (2018) as demonstrated in
 the images below:




 Bond and Hitchcott worked with David Murphy (Stirling) and Charles Forsdick (Liverpool) on the
 Scotland tour of the ‘Human Zoos’ exhibition (2018). The St Andrews leg of the tour included a
 roundtable at the Byre Theatre, a walking tour with Murphy and Forsdick, and a film-screening
 introduced by a postgraduate research student.

 The ‘Donbas Odyssey’ project has been exhibited in the Ukrainian cities of Kyiv, Odesa and
 Lviv, at the Migration Stories Festival in Izmir, Turkey, and at the Byre Theatre, St Andrews.
 Donovan also curated the Hughesovka exhibition displayed in Merthyr Tydfil, Edinburgh,
 Durham, Kyiv and Sieverodonetsk, and the subject of long reads in BBC Ukraine, BBC News
 and The Telegraph. Both exhibitions have been accompanied by research talks and other
 events (cultural workshops, performances of archival letters, audio-visual performances and
 capacity-building workshops).

 Media appearances (indicated in light blue on the maps above)
 Staff have disseminated their research through media appearances, both in the UK and abroad.
 New Generation Thinkers, Donovan and Smith have worked closely with BBC Radio 3 and
 Radio 4 during the census period.

 Elmaz has worked with the German radio station Deutschlandfunk and written programmes on
 gender equality in the Quran (‘Sure 33 Vers 35 Eine Frage der Geschlechtergerechtigkeit’) and
 on jihadism (‘Sure 60 Vers 4 Abraham und die Dschihadisten’).

 Finer was invited to talk about her research on Pushkin on BBC Radio 4’s In Our Time with
 Melvyn Bragg. She has provided interviews and research for 3 further BBC radio programmes:
 Red Mars and World War I-The Cultural Front (R4) and Sunday Feature-Not Suitable for
 Children (R3).

 Bowd‘s research on Scotland and the Far Right has led to interviews on STV News at Six, BBC
 Radio Scotland, and in the Sunday Post. He was interviewed about his book Mémoires d’Outre-
 France on France Inter, with extracts and an interview published in L’Obs. Bowd’s work on writer

                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Michel Houellebecq has generated further invitations to appear in the French media (‘Le Grand
 Journal’ of Canal+, France Inter, Planète+, Antenne2, and Radio Notre Dame, Paris).

 An expert on Catalonia, Larios has been interviewed by news channels around the world,
 including Radio Sant Vicenç (Barcelona), TRT Word, BBC Radio Scotland, Sky News, Business
 News Toronto, Russia Today, Power987 (South Africa).

 Ganofsky appeared in the Sky Arts documentary, Casanova Undressed; San Román was
 interviewed about José Enrique Rodó on Uruguayan national radio, and about other aspects of
 Uruguayan culture for Channel 4 news webpage and Canadian weekly, L’Egalité; Talajooy was
 invited to speak about contemporary Iranian literature, culture and society on Chrome Radio;
 and Bond was a radio guest on Italo Svevo.

 Commercial publisher Planeta’s publication of a new translation of Fowler’s biography of six-
 times Mexican president Santa Anna in April 2018 was covered in national newspapers El
 Financiero and Excélsior, with Fowler giving a series of interviews on Mexican radio and
 television (Canal Fórmula, MVS Radio, Radio Oro, and Radio UNAM).

 Research Consultancies
 Orr is advisor to National Museums Scotland (Edinburgh) on nineteenth-century European
 history of science and women in science. Kefala advised the Cyprus Ministry of Education
 and Culture on support materials for the teaching of Borges in secondary schools. Donovan has
 acted as consultant to the British Library on a project to re-stage a revolutionary mass festival
 to commemorate the centenary of the Russian revolution in 1917 and to a BBC producer for an
 episode of Living History about the Welsh migration to the Russian Empire in the nineteenth
 century.

 Bildhauer’s research on medieval literature has led to a number of consultancy engagements
 around the Song of the Nibelungs project, including as historical adviser to scriptwriter, Gesa
 Scheibner, for a development of the TV Series Reincarnated (an adaptation of Völsungasaga)
 and to Schäfer/Thieme Productions for the development a puppet theatre play. O’Leary was
 invited to contribute to a workshop on theatre censorship with West Yorkshire Playhouse,
 Leeds, involving playwrights, Hassan Abdulrezzak, Zodwa Nyoni and Ng Choon Ping.

 Elmaz is advisor on the ‘Digital Mediations’ strand of the Language Acts and Worldmaking
 Project, funding by AHRC/OWRI. Vaysman acts as research consultant to the British Council
 for their Schools online Russian Assemblies Project. Allan is a member of the National
 Validation Panel and Steering Committee for the AHRC-funded project, ‘European Cinema
 Audiences’.



 CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE DISCLIPINARY RESEARCH BASE
 Colleagues have organised and hosted over 100 academic conferences and workshops in
 Scotland during the census period.

 The Lectura Dantis Andreapolitana lecture series, partly funded by the Italian Cultural Institute
 of Edinburgh and the Society for Italian Studies, has held 14 public meetings in the census
 period, moving through the Divine Comedy from ‘Purgatorio’ in 2014 to ‘Paradiso’ in 2020. Free

                                                                                           Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and open to all, the series has featured major Dante specialists from around the world, including
 Profs Alison Cornish (NYU), Zigmund Baranski (Notre Dame/Cambridge) and Lino Pertile
 (Harvard).

 In 2019, Lennon co-founded the cross-institutional, cross-disciplinary ‘Scottish Hispanisms’
 seminar series (with Eamon McCarthy, Glasgow) for Early Career academics.

 O’Leary is a founding member of the Scottish Arts and Humanities Alliance (SAHA) and
 represents the University on the Steering Committee. Established in 2019, SAHA is a joint
 initiative of 9 Scottish HEIs, the RSE and SGSAH, which works to give a public and collective
 voice to the Arts and Humanities in Scotland and beyond.

 Beyond Scotland, academic staff in the School have organised conferences in several countries
 around the world (indicated in dark blue on the maps above).

 Our colleagues sit on the peer review colleges of the AHRC; Association of Hispanists of Great
 Britain and Ireland; British Academy; British Institute for the Study of Iraq; Carnegie Trust of
 Scotland; DFG; ESRC; Leverhulme Trust; Independent Social Research Foundation; and
 SGSAH.

 Members of the School have also held leadership roles in professional associations, both in the
 UK and in Europe, including: the Anglo-Catalan Society (Larios); Arab-German Young Academy
 of Sciences and Humanities (Dmitriev); BASEES (Whitehead); Centre Flaubert, Paris (Orr);
 ICLA (Hutton); International Medieval Congress (Bildhauer); International Medieval Society,
 Paris (Turner); Society for French Studies (Evans, Jones, Turner); German Studies Association
 (Osborne); Society for Italian Studies (Bond, Rossignoli); Society for Francophone Postcolonial
 Studies (Hitchcott).

 During the census period, members of the School have held editorial or advisory board positions
 on more than 20 international journals. Colleagues at all career stages have also refereed for
 over 70 different journals. These include new interdisciplinary journals emerging from the
 expansion of Modern Languages research (e.g. Memory Studies, Social History of Medicine,
 Transnational Literature, Journal of Literature and Science, Journal of Historical Geography,
 Interventions, Screen). We have acted as reviewers for more than 30 international publishers,
 including CUP, EUP, Liverpool University Press and OUP.

 Since 1965, the School has run the peer-reviewed multidisciplinary international journal, Forum
 for Modern Language Studies published by Oxford University Press (General Editor: Orr). The
 journal promotes transnational and interdisciplinary engagement with literature and culture, and
 awards the annual Forum Essay Prize, launched in 2009.




                                                                                           Page 23
