Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Glasgow

 Unit of Assessment: 26A

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Research Context and School Structure

 UoA26a at the University of Glasgow maps almost directly on to the School of Modern
 Languages and Cultures (SMLC), covering a wide range of language areas in which advanced
 research is conducted: the primary languages are Chinese, Croatian, Czech, French, German,
 Italian, Spanish, Polish. Portuguese, and Russian. Since REF2014 the Unit’s broad research
 strategy has been to consolidate existing areas of strength, to embrace other minority languages
 within Europe, such as Catalan and Galician, as well as their connections to minority languages
 in the British Isles (Irish and Scottish Gaelic), and to become more global in its outlook and
 frames of reference. Research thus includes, for example, Francophone Caribbean literature,
 African postcolonial theory, Brazilian cinema, Mexican photography, Lusophone Goan short
 stories, and Asian-European literary and intellectual relations. This increasing emphasis on a
 more global, cross-cultural and interdisciplinary approach to research in the UoA has
 underpinned two key areas which are central to its future research strategy and postgraduate
 development: Comparative Literature and Translation Studies. It has also facilitated
 interconnections with research in other disciplines across the College and University, such that
 language-focused research being done, for example, in Malayalam linguistics and Judeo-Arabic
 intellectual history are included within the UoA’s output portfolio. Supported by UKRI and
 international funding (Section 3), the UoA is strengthening its work on language policy and
 education, human rights (migrants, refugees and asylum seekers) and Global South challenges
 (protecting cultural heritage; social violence) as live, urgent problems to which Modern
 Languages researchers can make a significant contribution. The strategy, mechanisms and
 context that have led to this expansion and transformation of the Unit’s research since 2014 are
 described in more detail below, and the ambitious future directions and objectives are outlined at
 the end of Section 1.


 The School of Modern Languages and Cultures has existed as a unitary organisational structure
 for over a decade, and is fortunate to be located in its own building, with the clear benefits this
 has of facilitating a strong collaborative teaching and research culture across language areas.
 The strategic aims of the UoA as outlined in REF2014 were: to support research in established
 areas of strength while developing translation studies and comparative literary and cultural
 studies within the context of multidisciplinary projects across UofG; to enhance research across
 the UoA through robust peer support and researcher skills training; to significantly increase the
 number of colleagues in the UoA holding grants and the value of these awards; to increase


                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 leadership of and influence in areas of research expertise through broader collaborative
 networks; to expand the international doctoral community by making more visible the UoA’s
 research excellence; and to deliver impactful research in partnership with a range of local,
 national and international stakeholders.


 The UoA has used substantial investment from the College of Arts, particularly in staffing, to
 pursue each of these aims over the last seven years. As a result, the FTE submitted to
 REF2021 has increased from 22.0 to 37.8, and the UoA has staff who are among the leading
 figures in their respective fields, such as in Translation and Comparative Literature, Medieval
 and Golden Age Spanish, German Philosophy, Emblems and Comics, Language and Society,
 and Colonial and Postcolonial Studies. Research income as well as the number of proposals
 submitted have grown year on year since 2014, as have postgraduate research numbers. Many
 PGR students now come through the School’s two successful taught Masters programmes, the
 MLitt in Comparative Literature, and MSc in Translation Studies, with a bespoke version of the
 latter offered as part of the University’s Joint Graduate School partnership with Nankai
 University, China.


 Research Themes and Groupings

 The UoA has continued to support and enable high quality individual scholarship, but has also
 put in place structures to develop greater coherence and collaboration between languages, and
 through innovative interdisciplinary connections across the College of Arts and the University,
 including with History, Art History, English Language and Linguistics, Film, the Centre for East
 European Studies, and Theology and Religious Studies. The long-standing, mature areas of the
 UOA’s research are supported by two research centres based within SMLC: the Stirling Maxwell
 Centre for the Study of Text/Image Cultures, which draws on the University library’s outstanding
 special collections; and the newly formed Centre for Comparative Literature and Translation,
 which focuses the research of a large number of staff across these two areas. As well as hosting
 regular events and distinguished visiting speakers, both centres serve to link PGR and staff
 research, and as platforms for collaboration with international partners. In addition, members of
 the UoA have leadership roles in a number of interdisciplinary University research centres and
 networks including the Centre for Gender History, and the Medical Humanities Network. The
 UoA also leads on a number of the College’s cross-disciplinary thematic Labs co-ordinated by
 ‘Arts Lab’, the College of Arts’ Research Institute (Textual Editing, Decolonising Glasgow, and
 Migration), with several members of the latter group closely involved with the University of
 Glasgow’s Refugee, Asylum and Migrant Network (GramNet).




                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The UoA actively sought to address the specific REF2014 sub-panel feedback regarding the
 perception of heterogeneity and fragmentation of its research, and has developed a more
 cohesive, collaborative and interactive research environment following a series of research
 Away Days, which led to the articulation of five overarching thematic clusters:


    •   Writing in Transit, encompassing work in translation theory and practice, intercultural
        studies, migration, and comparative literature in its broadest sense, including literature
        and its relations to other disciplines.
    •   Visual Culture, extending the research remit of the Stirling Maxwell Centre, with its
        traditional strengths in emblem studies and comics, to encompass work in film, art
        history, architecture and photography.
    •   Histories and Subjectivities, which includes wide-ranging research on socio-political
        and historical themes, from colonial and postcolonial studies, to women’s magazines in
        Spain and Italy, literature of the Gulag, marginalized histories in post-industrial France,
        and migrant experiences in Eastern Europe.
    •   Textual Editing, foregrounding the significant work being done by the UoA in producing
        critical editions and edited translations of often neglected European and non-European
        texts, with an increasing focus on digital and web-based editions.
    •   Language and Society, focused on language-based research, particularly
        sociolinguistics, by exploring its relations to broader social and historical contexts. This
        cluster, formed in 2019, reflects recent investment expanding the range and diversity of
        the UoA’s research and we see this as an important future growth area for the UoA.

 An equal share of the School’s research budget is allocated annually to each cluster to fund its
 activities. The borders between the research clusters are intentionally permeable in nature, with
 colleagues often active in several. Each cluster has the freedom to set its own schedule of
 events driven by the needs of the researchers. Visiting speakers are often invited to contribute to
 the wider plans and activities of each cluster, which have been successful in embedding cross-
 linguistic intellectual exchange. For instance, the collaboration with Barbara Cassin on the
 Dictionary of Untranslatables led to her being appointed to UofG as a Visiting Research
 Professor, with subsequent visits to deliver public lectures, as well as a workshop hosted by the
 Scottish Graduate School for Arts and Humanities (SGSAH). Research based on the work
 presented in another seminar series on ‘European Dialogues’ was further developed and
 subsequently published as a co-edited special issue of Oxford German Studies. The clusters
 have become the main vehicle within the UoA for collaborative research, fostering networks,
 developing successful team-based funding applications, generating co-authored or co-edited
 outputs, and hosting workshops and conferences. As an example, Clarke’s work presented in a
 Histories and Subjectivities workshop subsequently evolved into a successful major


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaborative funding bid with the Canadian SSHRC (see below). The Writing in Transit cluster
 now organises an annual Postgraduate conference in Comparative Literature and Translation,
 featuring international keynote speakers (Haun Saussy, Lawrence Venuti, Thomas Beebee,
 Susan Bassnett, Cesar Dominguez, among others). Edited contributions from the 2019
 conference, by both PGR students and established scholars, will be submitted the Comparative
 Literature series of Liverpool UP’s Modern Languages Open. The 2020 conference went ahead
 very successfully as an online webinar, attracting over 350 delegates from more than 30
 countries worldwide. The focus of the Writing in Transit cluster enabled the UoA to bid
 successfully for a postdoctoral fellow, and a Leverhulme Visiting Professorship (Dominguez),
 who will be associated with the Centre in Comparative Literature and Translation.


 Facilitating and Supporting Impact

 The UoA continues to develop and strengthen its impact profile as part of its overall research
 culture, working with the College of Arts KE and Impact team and the School impact champion
 to nurture relationships with organisations and institutions in Glasgow and beyond. The city of
 Glasgow is fortunate to enjoy a world-class cultural and artistic environment, and the UoA takes
 full advantage of the civic resources in its public engagement and impact activity, both on
 campus -- the University library boasts around 200,000 manuscripts and 200,000 printed works
 in its special collections, and the Hunterian Art gallery collaborates with UoA researchers on
 major exhibitions -- and across the city. The impact of our research in text/image studies thrives
 in partnership with Kelvingrove (Frank Quitely: The Art of Comics), the Alliance française
 (Glasgow Festival de Bande Dessinée), the Centre for Contemporary Arts (Glasgow Comic Con)
 and the Mitchell Library (the ‘Aye Write’ Writers’ Festival). The Glasgow Film Theatre regularly
 collaborates with researchers in the UoA on research-related screenings, for example the
 Brazilian Film Festival and the Africa in Motion Film Festival. The ‘Human Zoos’ Empire
 exhibition focussing on the Glasgow-based colonial era public events was co-hosted by
 researchers in the UoA with the Glasgow School of Art.


 The UoA’s Impact champion works closely with the University and College impact team, the UoA
 REF Champion and SMLC Research Convenor, and is responsible for ensuring public
 engagement and impact are integral to its research activities. KE and Impact objective-setting is
 one of the seven core elements of UofG annual Performance and Development Review, and is
 one of seven criteria for promotion. The four impact case studies selected represent a small
 portion of the UoA’s broader impact activities (outlined in more detail in section 4), and a key
 aspect of the longer-term impact strategy has been to embed impact activity across its research
 portfolio. Support for impact included the University’s KE Fund, from which the UoA over the
 REF cycle secured £23,228 for 11 impactful projects. This was supplemented by additional


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 resource from the College of Arts, including targeted teaching buyout, and from the School’s
 Strategic Research Allocation fund.


 Open Access and Research Integrity

 Open scholarship and open data are central to the UoA’s approach to publishing, and to the
 training provided for PGR students. The UoA fully supports the principles of the Concordat on
 Open Research Data, signed by UofG in 2018, and has adapted these to its local context. Open
 Access fees for outputs are factored into UoA funding applications. Library staff have been
 invited to School Forums, offer bespoke workshops for both staff and students, track open
 access compliance of all publications, and circulate lists of the growing number of Open Access
 journals for researchers. As a result, the percentage of articles published Open Access by the
 UoA has grown from 30% in 2014 to almost 90% in 2019. Several colleagues have already
 published with Liverpool UP’s Modern Languages Open series, and large-scale funding bids on
 the horizon include digital data as a central output (for example, work with Haitian literary
 archives, and a project to produce a multilingual digital platform for translations of Cassin’s
 Dictionary of Untranslatables).. Researchers in the UoA have also been at the forefront of
 curating virtual exhibitions, notably the exhibition held at the Hunterian Museum in 2017 on art in
 the Solovki Gulag prison camps. This exhibition has recently been refreshed with new content
 and relaunched, principally in commemoration of the Victims of Political Repression in the former
 USSR, but also as a model example of the museum’s shift in emphasis towards more online
 exhibitions in the current pandemic. The UoA anticipates such expertise will be invaluable as this
 aspect of open research becomes increasingly important post Covid-19.


 A key element of the UoA’s open research environment is to ensure all colleagues include and
 update comprehensive online research profiles on the School webpages, with the texts of open
 access publications and the references of non-open access publications made available through
 the University’s Enlighten repository. The UoA has developed a social media strategy, in close
 cooperation with its PGR community, and this will further facilitate easy linkage to open access
 research. The University of Glasgow was the first UK HEI to sign up to ORCID, and 92% of the
 Category A staff in the UoA have ORCID IDs. The UoA promotes a culture of research integrity
 by drawing on advice from the College and School Research Integrity officers to ensure
 compliance with institutional and national research standards. This includes the mentorship
 provided to ECRs through the Early Career Development Programme (ECDP), and the annual
 Performance and Development Review for all staff. The School Research Convenor acts as the
 main interface with University policy (which aligns with the 2019 Research Integrity Concordat).
 Research ethics training is provided for all staff and PGR students, and each College has a




                                                                                                   Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 robust and rigorous ethics approval process for all staff and PGR research projects, with the
 College of Arts Research Ethics Officer based in SMLC.


 Future strategy

 The UoA intends to produce world-leading research in its traditional areas of strength, and to
 expand upon UoA research in emerging interdisciplinary areas, with a particular emphasis on
 Medical Humanities, Digital Humanities, Sociolinguistics, Reparative Justice in relation to the
 Black Lives Matter movement, and Sustainability and Biodiversity as they apply to both language
 and literature. The broad strategy going forward is to position Glasgow as one of the leading
 centres for Modern Languages research in the UK, and to place SMLC firmly on the map
 internationally, with a focus on innovative cross-cultural and interdisciplinary research currently
 being done, particularly in Comparative Literature and Translation. SMLC successfully bid to
 host the prestigious International Symposium of the Modern Languages Association of America
 (MLA) in 2021, the first time it has come to the UK, and this globally important event sets the
 benchmark and measure for the UoA’s present and future ambitions. The UoA’s new Centre for
 Comparative Literature and Translation will serve as a laboratory for this work, with active input
 from 2021-23 by the Leverhulme Visiting Professor.


 This ambition is reflected in significant recent investment in Modern Languages, and all
 appointments to language areas have been made with a view to building a more versatile
 interdisciplinary research community. This ambition will be guided by the following broad
 objectives:


    •   to diversify and grow the UoA’s external research funding portfolio, particularly through
        large-scale collaborative funding bids. The major 7-year award by the Canadian SSAHC
        will be a substantial contribution to the Histories and Subjectivities group, and serve as
        a model for the UoA.
    •   to establish, in collaboration with Glasgow City Council and other stakeholders, a
        National Comics Centre, building on the research within the Visual Cultures cluster.
    •   to support and develop the impact activity of its researchers, with particular emphasis on
        identifying and transforming early and emerging impact activity into robust programmes
        of engagement with diverse audiences.
    •   to ensure that equality and diversity, and the principles of best practice in research, are
        at the heart of the UoA’s activity, embedding the core principles and recommendations
        from its Athena Swan bronze award into its research culture (see section 2), and working
        towards obtaining a silver award in the next REF cycle.




                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   to develop its network of international partner institutions (for example, Nankai in China,
        Columbia in the USA, the CNRS in Paris, McGill in Canada, the Malawi-Glasgow
        Network, the University of West Indies), and the associated research and PGR
        opportunities.



 2. People

 Recruitment strategy

 The UoA’s research ambitions have been supported by substantial investment by the University
 in Modern Languages across all levels during this REF census period, both replacing retiring or
 departing staff, and to support new strategic initiatives. ECRs have been recruited in French,
 German, Portuguese and Comparative Literature, Translation Studies, Russian, Italian, and
 Chinese; mid-career colleagues appointed in Hispanic, French and Translation Studies;
 Professors in Hispanic and Sociolinguistics, in Comparative Literature and Translation; and two
 Heads of School, in Hispanic and French, have been appointed externally. The UoA has had
 three postdoctoral research fellows since 2014, one funded by the British Academy, and two
 internally through the University-wide interdisciplinary Lord Kelvin Adam Smith scheme, both of
 whom were promoted to permanent posts at the end of their fellowships.


 The significant investment in the UoA has been carefully coordinated with a clear three-part
 forward-looking strategy in mind; 1. To further strengthen and reinvigorate existing areas of
 research expertise; 2. To build a critical mass in the key priority areas of Comparative Literature
 and Translation, with a particular emphasis on innovative interdisciplinary research; 3. To open
 up new areas, with a view to future development and sustainability (for example, Sociolinguistics
 and Language Policy, Hispanic Postcolonial Medievalism, Russian Avant-Garde, Early Modern
 European Book History, Intellectual Relations between China and the West).


 All new appointees are required to present a detailed 5-year research plan, which then forms the
 basis for the successful candidate’s research objectives. New staff appointed to language
 programmes all have strong interdisciplinary research profiles, and contribute to cross-School
 UG or PG teaching in either Comparative Literature or Translation, or both. Colleagues
 appointed to other areas in the College whose research is language-focused or overlaps in other
 ways are encouraged to explore interconnections and collaborations with researchers in the
 UoA, and there is a flourishing and dynamic interdisciplinary research environment throughout
 the College, facilitated by a very supportive infrastructure.




                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The UoA benefits from a number of honorary research fellows including emeriti colleagues who
 continue to contribute actively to the research environment of the Unit through secondary PGR
 supervision and involvement in research seminars. The French philosopher, Barbara Cassin,
 was appointed in 2018 to the University of Glasgow as an Honorary Research Professor, and in
 that capacity delivers regular guest lectures, masterclass workshops with PGR students, and
 works with colleagues in the School and College on collaborative research projects and external
 funding applications.


 Induction, Career Development and Mentoring

 All new Grade 7 and 8 academic staff join the University’s Early Career Development
 Programme (ECDP), which is designed to offer bespoke personal and institutional support in
 academic and research skills and career development, setting out clear pathways towards
 promotion within defined timescales. It provides each researcher with an experienced mentor
 outside formal line management, acting in a more supportive and advisory capacity. Staff attend
 a wide range of courses during their ECDP training, and all ECDP staff are given a reduced
 teaching load (50% Year 1, 25% Year 2) to support their early career development. The UoA
 has benefitted significantly from this University-wide initiative, and research staff in Modern
 Languages who joined the ECDP have so far enjoyed a 100% success rate in progression from
 G7 to G8 (5, of whom 2 progressed from fellowships to permanent posts) and G8 to G9 (1). The
 inaugural College ECDP ‘Champion’ was also based in SMLC, and in this mediating role helped
 to refine many aspects of the programme in its initial phase. New staff appointed at G9 or 10
 benefit initially from more informal mentoring.


 Career development and mentoring at more senior levels takes place primarily through the
 annual Performance and Development Review process, which again provides the opportunity
 within a confidential and supportive environment to reflect on the previous year, agree on
 objectives for the year ahead, and when appropriate, helps to prepare the ground for promotion
 applications. For all R&T staff objective-setting always includes specific targets for research
 outputs, external funding, PGR supervision and KE/impact. The University runs leadership
 programmes at all levels, as well as the Aurora training course for women, and a Crucible
 residential research training course for ECRs and postdoctoral researchers. 8 of the 10 staff
 from the UoA who have attended these courses have been women, and 4 have subsequently
 been promoted.


 Equality and Diversity

 SMLC was awarded Athena Swan bronze status in 2020, and will be working towards a silver
 award in the next REF cycle. As such, it fully embraces the University’s unequivocal

                                                                                                   Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 commitment to Equality and Diversity in all its forms. The Athena Swan application involved a
 process of rigorous and open self-reflection, and the Self-Assessment Team drew up a detailed
 Action Plan, starting with the appointment of two Gender Equality Officers to oversee its
 implementation, and the introduction of a ‘Good Practice Scheme’ covering all aspects of the
 Plan. The gender balance in the UoA is 51% women and 49% men, and 36% of our research
 staff are non-UK citizens, but there is currently a gender imbalance at the professorial level
 although three of the six most recent senior appointments (two Senior Lecturers and a
 Professor) have been women. Addressing this effectively is a priority for the UoA. The UoA has
 developed School-specific guidelines on gendered and inclusive language, and personal
 pronouns, across the different language areas, an initiative arising from the research of several
 colleagues in gender history and LGBTI+ studies.


 All staff undertake University-led Equality and Diversity, and Unconscious Bias training, and this
 is an essential and explicit part of recruitment training and practice. Interview panels are
 consciously selected with gender balance in mind, and HR representation on the panels ensures
 rigorous compliance with the University’s anti-discrimination policies, as well as actively
 encouraging panel members to consider applicants in protected characteristic categories. As
 well as generously subsidising moving costs for successful overseas applicants, the UofG
 covers visa and NHS registration fees for non-UK appointees.


 The University operates an Academic Returners’ scheme to support colleagues who have had to
 take extended career breaks because of maternity leave, caring responsibilities, sick leave, or
 for other reasons. It provides up to £10,000 per capita of targeted funding to cover teaching and
 other research activities, in order to ease the return to work, and assist researchers in resuming
 their career development. Four researchers in the UoA who took a period of maternity leave
 have already benefitted from this scheme. which can be used very flexibly, including teaching
 buyout, travel, and childcare to facilitate conference attendance and other research activity. The
 UoA encourages colleagues to use this scheme to combine it with internally funded research
 leave (entitlement to which continues to accrue throughout periods of parental leave) to
 maximise the benefit in terms of research support, and three colleagues have taken advantage
 of this. The UoA ensures that as many colleagues as possible with childcare or other caring
 responsibilities are able to attend all research seminars and events by scheduling them in the
 middle of the day. The UoA has generally developed a strong community ethos thanks to its
 collocation in a shared building, and through its many cross-School and College collaborations,
 frequent Away Days, and research-focused workshops.




                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Time and Money for Research

 All R&T staff are eligible to apply for one semester of internally funded research leave every
 seven worked semesters, and over the census period, 23 researchers in the UoA have been
 awarded internal leave. The College of Arts policy now allows for devolved and more flexible
 management of the leave rota, and as a result three colleagues were granted early leave or
 reduced teaching in order to complete significant time-sensitive projects or publications. Staff
 who take on major School-wide roles are eligible for two semesters leave on completion of their
 term. In addition, colleagues can apply for shorter periods of School or College buyout from
 teaching or other responsibilities outside of the research leave cycle, to work on discrete projects
 or to put together large funding applications. All R&T staff have at least one day of the week
 during term time allocated as a research day. The School has been actively exploring ways to
 find a better balance between teaching and research commitments, such as more research-
 based teaching, the most effective use of technological resources, or streamlining administrative
 workload where possible.


 The School ring-fences a portion of its budget for its Strategic Research Allocation, which funds
 both the activities of the research clusters and individual research-related expenses. Around 12
 applications are received for each of the three rounds annually, and the success rate is close to
 100%. The range of activities supported has broadened to align with the UoA’s strategic
 research priorities, including KE/impact-related events, publication expenses, research
 networking, or time to work on large grant applications. R&T staff can apply for College-level
 seed-funding to develop research projects, and Arts Lab theme funding for interdisciplinary
 workshops, as well as to the University-level Chancellor’s Fund and Knowledge Exchange Fund,
 where the UoA has enjoyed good success.


 POSTGRADUATE RESEARCH

 Recruitment


 SMLC’s broad range of research expertise, and its extensive library holdings, mean it is well
 resourced for PG study and research. There is a growing interest in inter-disciplinary projects,
 often in areas closely related to the UoA’s research clusters, such as Translation Studies,
 Comparative Literature, Text/Image Studies and Language in Society/Education, which
 frequently require cross-School or cross-College supervision. The UoA’s two main Masters
 programmes in Comparative Literature and Translation are an important pathway for recruitment
 of PhD students, and the advanced research skills training elements on the courses have been
 explicitly developed with this objective in mind. Enrolment on these courses has risen steadily



                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 during this REF cycle, at a time when funding for Modern Languages PG research is scarce.
 Modern Languages and Cultures is now one of the strategic themes and priority areas for the
 SGSAH DTP, and the ML lead for SGSAH's ‘Discipline+ Catalyst’ training body is based in
 SMLC. The D+ Catalyst provides an annual programme of training for all MLC PGRs across
 Scotland, and staff in the UoA have organised a number of these events. College and AHRC
 funding are supplemented by a range of bursaries offered by the School, including for one-year
 MPhil research degrees, and the UoA’s strategy has been to direct alumni funding towards PG
 support where possible for this reason. The lack of funding remains a major issue, although
 thanks to improved support with applications for both prospective supervisors and students, the
 UoA has had increasing success with AHRC DTP and College competitions, and the strong
 support for interdisciplinary research and cross-supervision has led to success with DTPs
 beyond Arts and Humanities (from 0 in 2017, to 1 SGSAH scholarship in 2018,1 SGSAH and 3
 College in 2019, and 2 SSSAH and 2 SGSSS in 2020). As a result, numbers of PhDs awarded
 annually in the UoA has grown steadily from 1 in 2013/14 to 11 in 2018/19, with an increasing
 trend both in recruitment of doctoral students, and per capita supervisory load. Particular
 attention is paid to ensuring our selection process is as open, inclusive and diverse as possible
 where students with protected characteristics are concerned.

 Supervision and Training

 All PGR students are assigned at least two supervisors either from within the School, or from
 appropriate cognate disciplines. Supervisors are supported by the College of Arts Graduate
 School, including via a Supervisors’ VLE, and undertake mandatory training every 4 years as
 required by the SGSAH DTP. Supervisors are also provided with additional training through the
 Graduate School in topics such as conducting examinations and vivas, and through workshops
 offered by the University’s Research & Innovation Service in topics such as supervising remotely
 and supporting PhD students with career development. The Graduate School offers all PGR
 students high levels of support in terms of tailored academic skills courses, which include
 broader research training needs and individual personal development plans. PGR students
 meet frequently with their supervisory teams. Records of all meetings are agreed and signed off
 by both students and supervisors. Annual Progress Reviews (APR), organised normally in May
 each year by the School’s Postgraduate Convenor, allow students and supervisors to assess
 progress on their PhD, address any problems, and identify further training needs. Although
 significantly disrupted in 2020 by the impact of Covid-19, the APRs were all successfully
 conducted online. As part of the APR interview, students were all asked to inform the panel of
 how the pandemic had affected their ongoing doctoral research. The UofG had an institution-
 wide scheme to provide stipendiary extensions for final year students, to which PGRs could
 apply irrespective of funding source – including for self-funding students.



                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 School Support and Research Community

 As noted, SMLC is fortunate to be located within a single building, which allows PGR students to
 feel wholly integrated within the School’s research community. PGR students are encouraged
 and supported to develop their skills and experience by undertaking teaching where possible.
 PGR students participate in the bi-monthly School Forums and any other School-wide events,
 and an elected PGR representative plays an active role on the R&KE committee. For example,
 the current rep co-authored the School’s social media strategy, and was involved in planning the
 annual PG Conference in Comparative Literature and Translation. PGR students are invited to
 present their own work in progress as part of the staff research seminars, at conferences hosted
 by SMLC, or within research cluster workshops. Supervisors or other staff in the UoA often
 organise mock interviews for more advanced PGR students who are at the point of applying for
 teaching or other positions. As a result, many of our PGR students have successfully taken up
 permanent academic posts at other institutions, including Glasgow, Edinburgh, Stirling, Trinity
 College Dublin, Cork, ULIP, Brown University, Southampton, Central Lancashire, and Tübingen.
 Students are also supported to develop careers beyond academia, with former students going
 on to a diverse range of high-profile careers, for example, as Director of the Center for
 International and Transnational Area Studies in Regensburg, or as Assistant Director of the
 PAMLA in North America.


 Because of Covid-19, the 2020 PG Conference was organised as an online webinar by two PhD
 students, with support from two full-time staff in Comparative Literature. There were over 350
 delegates, and the event achieved a truly global reach, with attendees from over 30 countries as
 far afield as Bangladesh, Chile, China, and New Zealand, as well as the UK. As noted earlier,
 the PG Conference gives both PGT and PGR students the opportunity to present their research
 alongside very distinguished scholars, and also the possibility of developing conference papers
 into first publications (eg a student in Comparative Literature co-edited a special issue (2020) of
 New Voices in Translation Studies). A collaborative online issue of Modern Languages Open,
 which grew out of the 2019 conference, includes articles by four PG student, as well as by
 seasoned researchers.


 The importance of feeling a sense of belonging to a community intensified during the isolation of
 Covid-19 lockdown, as everything moved online. College Graduate School continues to support
 unit-level initiatives, e.g. through regular drop-in sessions, an annual College-wide PG
 conference, and online student-led publications eSharp and The Kelvingrove Review, in which
 the unit’s PGRs regularly participate, enabling them to build community and networks across a
 very broad range of disciplines. Many of the actions already underway to implement the student
 experience elements of the PRES Action plan (e.g., regular coffee mornings, a Facebook group,


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 bespoke training sessions) continued in some virtual form or another. As online and blended
 teaching and supervision becomes more and more the norm, this will become an increasingly
 important part of the UoA’s present international partnerships, particularly in relation to
 transnational education. One strand of the strategy for future expansion of the UoA’s PG
 community is to consolidate and build on the Translation Studies Taught Postgraduate course
 that is part of the University’s Joint Graduate School in Nankai, China by developing a joint
 Doctoral Degree. SMLC will be welcoming the first students on this joint degree in 2021.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income

 The UoA has devoted considerable time and energy since 2014 to effecting a cultural shift in its
 approach to research funding as part of a more ambitious Research Action Plan. In order to
 achieve these objectives, the UoA took advantage of the full resources and support of the
 College Research Office and EU Funding Office, developed greater cross-School research
 collaboration and more robust internal peer review processes, and diversified and expanded the
 range of target funders, as well as the types of research applications. The strategy is delivering
 results. Both the number of applications submitted and the proportion of Principal Investigators
 in the UoA have increased significantly since REF2014. Between January 2017 and January
 2020, researchers in the UoA submitted over 50 applications for a total value of over £6 million.
 In 2014 the overall total for the census period from all sources was modest, and well below the
 sector average, at £113,419. The total income during the current assessment period is
 £629,383, or more than a fivefold increase. While continuing to attract funding from Scottish
 sources such as the Carnegie Trust and the Royal Society of Edinburgh, the UoA has received
 awards from UK bodies, including the British Academy/Leverhulme, and RCUK income has
 increased to account for £131,691, or 21.7% of grant funding. The diversification of funding has
 led to a particular focus on European funding sources, in relation to a wide range of international
 networks and collaborations (see section 4). Research into women’s participation in literary
 culture in the 19th century, developed in close collaboration with international leaders in the field
 across Europe, underpinned the HERA-funded project Travelling Texts, 1790-1914 (2013-2016),
 and the PI was consequently a named team member in two Spanish research projects funded
 by the Spanish government (Prácticas culturales y esfera pública: editoras españolas y
 latinoamericanas contemporáneas [2017-2020, FFI2016-76037-P], and Desde los márgenes.
 Cultura, experiencia y subjetividad en la Modernidad: género, política y saberes (siglos XVII-
 XIX) [2019-2022, PGC2018-097445-A-C22]. The UoA also secured a Marie Curie Individual
 Fellowship (ERC funding of €86, 538), for a researcher to spend a year in Nancy to work on his
 project ‘Poetics of Statelessness in Twentieth-Century France and Europe’, addressing the work




                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of a range of French and European poets whose writing is marked by issues of migration, multi-
 lingual expression and diasporic forms of identity.


 There have been a number of other recent successes in the current REF cycle which do not yet
 appear as HESA spend, or where start dates have been delayed because of Covid-19. These
 include a major 7-year international multi-institutional project funded by the Canadian SSHRC
 ($2,499,500 CAD), ‘Deindustrialization and the Politics of Our Time’, in which the UoA is a key
 partner. The project involves researchers and non-academic partners (museums, archives, trade
 unions) in Canada, USA, UK, France, Germany and Italy. This will include $130,000 (CAD) for a
 postdoctoral researcher in Glasgow attached to the gender strand plus funding for event
 organisation (a summer institute to be held in Glasgow) and research assistance for the thematic
 initiatives run by UofG (‘Gender, Family and Deindustrialization’ and ‘Working-Class
 Expression’).


 A £40,000 GCRF grant was awarded by from the Scottish Funding Council for a researcher in
 the UoA working on Haitian Literature and Culture to develop capacity strengthening with the
 Musée du Panthéon National Haïtien and the Archives nationales d’Haïti, along with associated
 funding of €19,933 from the Prince Claus Fund, for the Promotion and Preservation of Haitian
 Arts and Culture programme. RSE network funding of £20,000 was awarded for a project on
 ‘Reimagining Scotland’s Black Communities in a Time of Covid-19’.


 The UoA was successful in its application for a 2-year Leverhulme Visiting Professorship to bring
 a leading figure in Comparative Literature, César Dominguez, to Glasgow from 2021-23. The
 Smithsonian Institute awarded the UoA £65,500 for a project on sustaining minoritized
 languages in Europe with additional BA/Leverhulme Small Grant funding secured (£9,995) and
 commissioned research by Bòrd na Gàidhlig (£35,00 + £7,500). The Stirling Maxwell Centre was
 awarded €18 975 from the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, in collaboration with the
 Humboldt University Berlin for a project entitled: ‘Look at me and do it! Material, visual and
 practical dimensions of the recipe booklet in the first half of the 16th century’. The UoA will be
 COI on an AHRC Scoping Grant ((£148,565 total, PI University of Sheffield, AH/V005480/1) for a
 project on ‘Performing Arts and Social Violence: Innovating Research Approaches to Sexual and
 Gender-based Violence in the Global South,’ working with performing artists and NGOs, as well
 as academics, in Sierra Leone and South Africa. In collaboration with a colleague from
 Education, the UoA was awarded a RSE Workshop grant for a project entitled ‘How to Talk
 About Migrations: Current Academic Research in Migration Studies and its Relevance for School
 Curriculum in Scotland and Further Afield’.




                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The UoA is thus in a period of growth and transition, which has seen a significant increase in the
 number of small to medium grants, and the ambition for the next REF cycle will be to use this as
 a platform to increase the scale and value of larger, collaborative funding awards.


 Infrastructure and Facilities

 This improving profile can be attributed to several factors. Firstly, the UoA has benefitted from a
 well-resourced, dynamic and responsive College of Arts Research Office and EU Funding Office
 which provide end to end support for all research activity. Information about funding
 opportunities and deadlines is disseminated frequently, and research officers work individually
 with researchers on applications, from early matching to appropriate funding streams and
 circumscription of projects, to identification of KE potential and impact pathways, and assisting
 with detailed and accurate costing. The College Research Office works closely both with the
 University’s EU Funding office, and with Artslab, which offers a wide range of interdisciplinary
 research workshops, general research advice and mentoring, and rigorous peer review feedback
 of grant applications. It also serves as a catalyst supporting new cross-College themed
 initiatives, and colleagues in SMLC take a leading role in a number of these (see section 1).


 Secondly, the UoA introduced new research support mechanisms at School level that align with
 the College’s research strategy and ambition. The increasingly collaborative approach to
 research outlined in section 1 has enabled the UoA to supplement individual research by
 supporting collective projects, in which sharing research, seeking feedback, and internal peer
 review of drafts of funding applications or publications is the norm. This is often done within the
 context of research cluster work-in-progress sessions, or as part of the mentoring relationship,
 particularly for Early Career Researchers on the ECDP programme. There is now an expectation
 for all staff to have potentially REF-eligible outputs peer reviewed either internally or externally
 prior to submission. Senior colleagues on the School’s R&KE committee offer feedback on
 external funding applications at an early stage, and the UoA now places strong emphasis on
 developing good grant-writing skills and habits, and on the value of persistence, often helping
 colleagues to rewrite, reframe, and resubmit unsuccessful funding applications, This was the
 case for the EU Marie-Curie award, which was highly rated but not funded when first submitted,
 but with targeted help to address problematic aspects identified in the feedback, it was
 successful following resubmission.


 Thirdly, as noted above, the UoA has aimed to diversify the range of funding sources. All staff
 are now encouraged to look beyond national funding bodies such as the Carnegie or Royal
 Society of Edinburgh (although these are often important stepping stones for ECRs) to national
 funding councils and charities (AHRC, Wellcome Trust, Leverhulme), and European funders


                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Marie-Curie, ERC), and the UoA has had increasing success across the spectrum of funders. In
 addition, the UoA has sought to maximise research opportunities via more indirect routes, taking
 advantage of University schemes such as the International Project Development Fund to explore
 and establish research networks, or similarly the University’s Knowledge Exchange fund, so as
 to support our work with local non-academic partners. The UofG KE fund has supported
 activities relating to 3 of the UoA’s 4 impact case studies. The Erasmus visiting researcher fund
 is regularly used to forge connections with European partner institutions (notably with our
 Eastern European links in the Czech Republic, Poland or Croatia).


 In terms of physical infrastructure, the UoA is a major research beneficiary of the Special
 Collections in the University library, the Hunterian Art Gallery and Museum (where successful
 exhibitions on Comics and on Art in the Gulag respectively were held), the new exhibition centre
 at Kelvin Hall and cultural hubs in the city of Glasgow such as the Centre for Contemporary Arts
 and the Glasgow School of Art. Since 2014 the Stirling Maxwell Centre has attracted visiting
 fellows from across the globe, with members of the Centre likewise delivering invited keynotes
 in, for example, Mexico City, PAMLA San Diego, Dijon, Rio de Janeiro, Soria, Manchester and
 Wolfenbüttel. The Centre has instigated and collaborated on a variety of high profile outreach
 events, for example Frank Quitely’s TedXTalk, or the December 2018 Comics Night at the
 Museum, which attracted over one thousand participants to the Hunterian.


 Support for research impact more broadly has thus been greatly enhanced by the cultural
 resources of the University and the City of Glasgow, and has benefitted from a more proactive
 approach to KE and impact at both College and School level, with the College of Arts KE and
 Impact team working closely with a team of local School impact champions to nurture
 relationships with University and extra-University organisations and institutions in Glasgow and
 beyond. KE and impact are an integral part of all the successful network funding awards in the
 UoA, such as the projects on ‘Translating Feminism’, ‘Scottish-French Philosophical and Literary
 Connections’, and ‘Gender and Deindustrialisation in Europe’. The latter was an important
 pathway towards the major Canadian SSAHC award, which will include an Artist in Residence
 and an exhibition.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 The UoA’s thematic clusters, networks and research centres have provided the structure,
 resources and focus for research collaborations within Glasgow, nationally and internationally.
 As noted in section 1, the impact case studies submitted to REF2021 represent a sample of a
 much broader range of impact activity and international collaboration with external partners.


                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Within the Histories and Subjectivities cluster, much of the UoA’s research in gender studies
 is facilitated by the Centre for Gender History, and is aligned with the School’s strong
 commitment to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion. The UoA has co-organised a number of
 international conferences and symposia including an event on Gender and Deindustrialisation
 (with colleagues from the Universities of Strathclyde, Paris-Est-Créteil and Bologna) and another
 on Work and Consumption from the 19th to the 21st Century (with the Universities of Paris-Est-
 Créteil and Paris 1 Panthéon Sorbonne). This is linked to a comparative project with the Singer
 Sewing Machine Archive in Dunbartonshire, conducting oral history collection and developing a
 youth theatre production based on oral histories, an activity inspired by a similar project run by
 the Archives Municipales d'Alençon based on oral histories conducted with Moulinex workers.
 Another related RSE-funded project involves the Paisley Museum Reimagined project run by
 Renfrewshire Council, supporting community engagement activity and reinterpretation of
 museum collections linked to the history of the industry and deindustrialisation.


 AHRC Network funding for a project on representations of Italian motherhood involved
 workshops in Italy, attended by journalists and local politicians; and a Leverhulme International
 Network Grant Translating Feminism: Transfer, Transgression, Transformation (1945-1991)
 established a worldwide network of researchers interested in questions of feminist translation.


 A researcher in French is co-convenor of the ‘Decolonise Glasgow’ College Arts Lab. As an
 expert in Caribbean studies she serves as a key advisor for the University following its decision
 as the first higher education institution in the UK to acknowledge the extent to which it profited
 from the colonial slave trade, and to embark on a campaign of reparation. Two key elements of
 this are the establishment of a joint Glasgow-Caribbean Centre for Development Research, and
 a planned interdisciplinary Masters degree in Reparative Justice which she has helped to set up,
 and which colleagues in the UoA will teach on. This initiative was cited as a determining factor in
 the UofG’s THE University of the Year award (2020). Colleagues in Czech Studies received a
 University Knowledge Exchange Commendation award for their partnership with the Human
 Rights Watch, helping to uncover the abuse and intimidation of Syrian refugees, which was
 extensively reported in European media. Colleagues in Slavonic more generally work closely
 with the University’s Refugee Asylum and Migrant Network (GRAMNET), and this had led to
 RSE funding for a project on migration research and education in the Scottish School curriculum.


 The value of the UoA’s research for the educational sector, particularly in Scotland, is
 increasingly apparent. The translation and critical edition of Bertha von Suttner, the early
 twentieth-century Nobel Peace prizewinner, has been taken up by Education Scotland, and led
 to the development of online teaching resources on the origins and winners of the Nobel Peace
 Prize for use in the Scottish secondary-school curriculum. The UoA researcher is now working


                                                                                                Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 closely with the Scottish Parliament’s Cross-Party Group on Nuclear Disarmament, as well as
 the international network Parliamentarians for Nuclear Non-Proliferation and Disarmament, and
 has been invited to present her work at the UN in the Hague. She was interviewed on the BBC
 World Service in July 2020. Together with the UoA’s work with Education Scotland on Comics
 and the online resources being developed (see the related impact case study), and with the
 Scottish government on language teaching in Schools, the UoA envisages ever closer
 collaborations with Education Scotland in future.


 Much of the research collaboration connected to the Visual Culture cluster is centred on
 substantial exhibitions, or in relation to film and photography, both in Glasgow and overseas.
 The Stirling Maxwell Centre has become a go-to institution for media features on text/image
 matters, from the world’s first printed picture of a tennis match (1540) to the search for Tintin’s
 Black Isle castle. Members of the Centre have made numerous invited appearances on
 television, BBC Radio Scotland, BBC Radio 4, as well as high-profile feature contributions to
 national print media.


 A collaborative project with the UofG Library and Wolfenbüttel’s Herzog August Bibliothek
 (Laube), ‘Look at me and do it!: Material, visual and practical dimensions of the recipe booklet,
 with special reference to the 16th century’, is working on a digitisation project for the two
 libraries’ collections of these Books of Secrets. The hosting of the Comic Invention exhibition by
 the Clydebank’s Museum and Art Gallery adapted the theme to the area’s landmarks and
 history. West Dunbartonshire Council and partners were able to build an ‘enhanced package’ of
 outreach activity based on the exhibition to involve the local community, including a school art
 competition, a series of talks, creative workshops, and a Comics Day at the Clydebank Town
 Hall which attracted over 500 visitors.


 The UoA, likewise, has co-curated exhibitions in Mexico on Mexican photography, with a view to
 changing perceptions of contemporary Mexican culture, past and present, leading to invitations
 to write entries in the catalogues alongside the photographers themselves. A Leverhulme-
 funded project on cinema and memories of dictatorship in Brazil, Chile and Argentina involves
 working with local communities and the film industry in these countries. The PI has conducted
 interviews with major film directors, and her work will break new ground in exploring the
 connections between film-making, memory studies and political violence. In Glasgow, the same
 researcher also co-organises the Latin American film festival at the Centre for Contemporary
 Arts, and well-known film directors are frequently invited to screenings of Hispanic and Catalan
 films within the University. As part of her BA-funded network on Existentialism and Franco-
 Scottish connections, a UoA research in French organised several public events in both Paris
 and Glasgow, and curated an exhibition in Paris, Léon Chestov - La Pensée du dehors, devoted


                                                                                                 Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to his sesquincentenary, which involved co-producing and scripting a short documentary film
 released during the exhibition.


 Research in and around translation is at the heart of the Writing in Transit cluster, and
 underpins the many national and international collaborations. Work in Comparative Literature
 and Translation has broken new ground in the current REF cycle in bringing about a significant
 shift in the way translation is viewed, particularly literary translation, and in the importance of the
 role of the translator in the creative process. One researcher helped to set up the Prize for
 Women in Translation in 2017, and work on this, as well as the Stephen Spender Poetry in
 Translation prize, has contributed to an increase in published fiction in translation in the UK. As
 well as working closely with some of the best-known literary translators and their publishers, the
 researcher has consistently championed fiction in translation, including in countless media
 articles and national radio interviews, and has thus increased the visibility of translation in the
 public sphere more broadly. Other researchers in the UoA have since 2013 been part of a
 network of scholars who have collaborated with publishers, translators, librarians, and journalists
 in organizing a number of high profile public events in London on ‘Literature in Translation’,
 bringing greater visibility and prominence to the importance of translation more broadly. Bringing
 translation theorists and practising translators together -- for example, the conference on ‘West
 African Literature and Thought in French: Translating Cultures’ in 2016 at the British Library -- is
 now an increasingly common public event format. The PI on the multi-national HERA-funded
 project Travelling Texts, 1790-1914 (see section 3) has been a team member of two Spanish
 research projects funded by the Spanish government, Prácticas culturales y esfera pública:
 editoras españolas y latinoamericanas contemporáneas (2017-2020) and Desde los márgenes.
 Cultura, experiencia y subjetividad en la Modernidad: género, política y saberes (siglos XVII-
 XIX) (2019-2022).

 As Chair of an EU COST Action (IS1306) New Speakers in a Multilingual Europe: Opportunities
 and Challenges, a researcher in the UoA has helped set up the New Speaker Network, which
 now has over 300 members across 28 countries. This work, and the wide range of international
 partnerships it has generated, will be central to the Languages and Society research cluster.
 The researcher is currently working on a number of other collaborative projects with the
 Universitat Oberta de Catalunya which examine the ‘sociolinguistics of the speaker’. These
 include a project on new speakers of Faroese and labour market integration (funded by the
 Faroese Research Council), new speakers of Gaelic (funded by Soillse) and new speakers of
 Irish (with the National University of Ireland, Galway). Looking beyond a European frame of
 reference, two UoA researchers who co-edited an edition of Nicole Bouvier’s Chronique
 japonaise are researching present day and historical connections between Scotland and Japan.
 As the UoA continues to build on its existing institutional partnerships in Japan and China, and


                                                                                                 Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the shared cultural and intellectual history, the connections to the Carnegie-funded project on
 Chinese Modernity/French Education (1907 to 1934) will open up new possibilities for joint
 interlingual and intercultural research and research impact.



 A UoA researcher is co-director of the Medical Humanities Network at the UofG and is working
 on the first interdisciplinary study of digestive health in nineteenth-century novels, cookbooks
 and health manuals, and as part of the project she has worked closely with colleagues in the
 medical sciences, and organised several international, cross-disciplinary events attending by
 wide-ranging academic and non-academic audience to examine changing perceptions and
 attitudes towards the digestive system in modern Western and non-Western culture. The UoA is
 focused on building partnerships in both Africa and the Caribbean through GCRF funding, for a
 project on ‘Speaking Through Laughter: Addressing Gender-based Violence with Humour in
 Sierra’, in collaboration with the NGO Timap for Justice, and the GCRF-funded digitisation of
 cultural archives in Haiti (see section 3). The UoA is also part of the University-wide Glasgow-
 Malawi Network for Interdisciplinary Collaboration (MAGNetIC), based in the School of Medical
 Sciences.


 Wider contribution to Modern Languages research

 Many of the staff in the UoA play significant and influential roles in the Modern Languages
 research community both nationally and internationally. Bassnett is President of the British
 Comparative Literature Association, Syrotinski President of the Society for French Studies (and
 was recently elected to the Academy of Europe) and Burns is the first woman President of the
 Modern Humanities Research Association. Many other colleagues hold key roles in other major
 national and international subject associations (for example, Altschul is on the Executive Council
 of the MLA, and McCarthy is secretary of the Society for Latin American Studies). While
 Graduate Dean of the College of Arts, Burns chaired SGSAH, the world’s first national Graduate
 School in the Arts and Humanities. Since 2018 she has also served as the Modern Languages
 lead catalyst for the SGSAH DTP2. In this capacity she organises workshops and other related
 training events for all Modern Languages PGR students across Scotland (see section 2).
 O’Rourke is a Fellow of the Smithsonian Center for Folklife and Cultural Heritage and PI on the
 project ‘Sowing the seeds at Semente: Grassroots revitalization and language activism in
 contemporary Galicia’, one of six case studies funded as part of the Sustaining Minoritized
 Languages in Europe (SMiLE) project


 Five staff in the UoA are currently members of the AHRC Peer Review College, three act as
 peer reviewers for the Carnegie Trust, one is a panel member of the Leverhulme Trust, and



                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 others act as reviewers and assessors for many other international funding bodies. This provides
 the UoA with a wide pool of expertise, experience and insight in research funding that is shared
 with colleagues, particularly ECRs, in peer-review cluster workshops (see section 2). Almost all
 staff in the UoA are regular readers and reviewers for major international publishers, and many
 serve as general editors of the leading journals in their fields, including Modern Italy, Modern
 Languages Review, Paragraph, French Studies, The Senses and Society, European Comic Art,
 French Studies Bulletin, Cahiers Léon Shestov, Slavonica, and the Bulletin of Spanish Studies.
 Staff in Russian and Czech in particular have embraced digital publishing; one UoA researcher
 is editor of Britské listy, a Czech cultural and political website, another a trustee of and
 contributor to the Calvert 22 Foundation, and the NYU ‘All the Russias’ blog; another the editor
 of the online journal AvtobiografiЯ: Journal on Life Writing and the Representation of the Self in
 Russian Culture.




                                                                                                Page 21
