Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Edinburgh Napier University

 Unit of Assessment:
 Unit of Assessment 24 – Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Structure of the Unit
 Unit of Assessment 24 encompasses research from the Tourism, Hospitality, Festival and
 Events Research Group (THFERG) located in the Business School (TBS) and the Sport,
 Exercise and Health research group (SEHRG) embedded in the School of Applied Sciences
 (SAS). The numbers of submitting staff in the UoA are indicated in Figure 1.



        Research Group                  Staff submitted (2021)            Staff submitted (2014*)




             THFERG                                14                                 3




              SEHRG                                13                                 3


               Figure 1: Submitted Staff in Research Groups Compared to REF 2014
                          *Submission was to other Units of Assessment.

 This is the first submission to UoA 24 by Edinburgh Napier University (ENU). In 2014 staff in
 THFERG were submitted in UoA 17, and members of SEHRG were submitted in UoA 3. The
 establishment of a UoA24 submission is evidence of the significant growth that both research
 groups have experienced since 2014.

 The submission arises from the University’s commitment towards developing excellent
 interdisciplinary research, and a desire to bring together synergistic research groupings from
 across the university to better meet the needs of end users. UoA 24 is composed of two distinct
 groups, based within two different schools and sites. There is no intention of demonstrating
 integration where none exists, but the two groups have come together to prepare this statement
 and to develop a collaborative strategy going forward.

 1.2 Research Direction
 THFERG approaches research from a variety of perspectives; managerial, social scientific,
 socio-cultural, interdisciplinary, and critical. Research is conducted at individual visitor, tourism
 business and destination levels.

 SEHRG research focuses on sport performance, and the benefit of enhanced physical activity to
 public health and reducing lifestyle related diseases. The goal is to drive enhancements in sport
 performance and health.

 1.3 Research Groups Contributing to UoA24

 1.3.1 The Tourism, Hospitality, Festival and Events Research Group (THFERG)
 THFERG has been led by Professors Leask and Lynch (for part of the reporting period). The
 group has increased the proportion of staff publishing peer reviewed outputs through staff

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development initiatives, pump priming funding, and external bid development. In addition,
 several staff have gained a doctoral qualification during the assessment period (Waterston,
 Urie, Kerr, Robertson, Bakiewicz, Urquhart, Gordon) creating a vibrant early career
 researcher (ECR) community. Research has taken place in the following research sub-groups:
       Group 1: Tourism Destination Experience Design and Management - Research
        themes include: visitor attraction management, generation profiles, and motivations and
        behaviours of attraction visitors (Leask); yoga tourist profiles (Ali-Knight); and place
        making (Todd); effective management of tourism businesses in relation to policy
        development, and product development (Anastasiadou); intangible cultural heritage
        (McCleery); mountain bike championships and development legacy in rural Scotland
        (Robertson); and service delivery (Ali-Knight); and understanding tourism in a broader
        socio-cultural context (Todd, Stanley). This research has been supported through AHRC
        funding (Anastasiadou); UKRI (Todd); Creative Scotland (McCleery); Association of
        Scottish Visitor Attractions and Interface (Leask).
       Group 2: Critical Hospitality and Tourism - Interdisciplinary research has focused on:
        hospitality, hotel, and lifestyle entrepreneurship (Lynch); narrative analyses of European
        genocide tourism and heritage (Wight); healthy eating and lifestyles (Naughton);
        community non-participation in homestay developments (Lynch & Anastasiadou);
        volunteer tourism and intercultural learning (Stanley, Thompson); backpacker tourism
        (Stanley) and the historical narratives of health and hospitality (Thomson); critical
        research and learning in event management (Robertson). Research in this area has
        received funding from the Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland (Naughton;
        Thompson), and the Egyptian Education Bureau (Hannam).
       Group 3: Festival and Events Experiences - Related to its location in Edinburgh, the
        world’s leading festival destination, research around festivals and event experiences
        spans several areas. These include governance, impacts and sustainability of Mega-
        sport events; (Theodoraki); value co-creation practices in festivals (Rihova); stakeholder
        analysis of events (Todd); festival leadership, sustainability, resilience and
        transformative development of community, and sustainability and social legacy of
        business events (Robertson); spiritual motivation at events (Tinsley); and visual
        methods and ethnography (Rihova, Todd). Funding for this cluster has been secured
        from the Qatar Research Foundation (Theodoraki).

 1.3.2 The Sport, Exercise and Health Research Group (SERHG)
 SEHRG is a vibrant community of researchers that has experienced exponential growth in
 research output and knowledge exchange activity in the reporting period. Led by Professor
 Florida-James, the growth of the group has been supported by key appointments (Palmer,
 Leggate, Ross, Mair, Mascarenhas) and opportunities for internally and externally funded
 studentships. This growth is reflected by the increased numbers of PhD studentship, higher
 degree completions and the quality and quantity of the outputs from the subject group.

 Within the SEHRG staff align to one or more research themes:
       Theme 1: Mountain Biking and Related Cycling Research (Florida-James,
        Campbell, Westbury, Ingram-Sills) - A strategic development in the 2014 – 2021 period
        has been the Mountain Biking Centre for Scotland (MBCofS). The MBCofS is a joint
        initiative headed by Edinburgh Napier University and Developing Mountain Biking in
        Scotland, with project partner Scottish Enterprise.
       Theme 2: Sports injury and Epidemiology Research (Palmer, Florida-James,
        Brown, Connaboy, Kaliarntas) - Palmer’s International Olympic Committee funded
        research concerns injury history, current health, and quality of life in Olympic level
        performers. She has also led a project funded by the UCI which examined injuries
        sustained by Enduro mountain bike riders. Research led by Brown and supported by
        doctoral students (Dunlop and Johnson) examined return-to-play (RTP) protocols in


                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        professional football and hockey. Research on the forces and impacts which lead to
        injury in military contexts was led by Connaboy and supported by Kaliarnatas.
       Theme 3: Applied Exercise Science (Leggate, Mair, Crabtree, Ingram-Sills) and
        Psychology (Westbury) – This theme relates physiology to sport, physical activity, and
        health. Mair’s work specifically examines the role of technology in facilitating behavioural
        change towards the adoption of physical activity and health. She collaborated with
        Campbell and others to examine the role of diet in exercise. Westbury’s work spans the
        mountain biking and exercise science groupings, focussing on the role of physical activity
        on psychological wellbeing and mental health.
       Theme 4: Talent Development and its Application in Sport Performance and
        Officiating (Martindale, Mascarenhas, Fountain, Pitkethly, English, Westbury).
        Martindale developed the Talent Development Environment Questionnaire which is used
        globally to assess the quality of development environments and guide evidence-based
        practice. Mascarenhas is a newly appointed academic whose work aims to develop the
        decisional processes in sports officiating. This work, supported by Cricket Scotland, the
        Scottish Rugby Union and English Basketball has had a clear impact on the quality of
        officiating in those areas.

 In this narrative, we have clearly indicated that the Unit is composed of two research groups.
 Hereafter, the submission will be discussed as a ‘unit’.

 1.4 Overview of Research Strategy
 In 2014, the common objectives across the UoA were to be ‘academically excellent’ and to
 ‘create, exploit and transfer knowledge’. To achieve these outcomes the unit committed to
 ‘invest in and value research’ and to ‘conduct research which makes an impact beyond the
 confines of academia’. In both groups emphasis was placed on strategic staff appointments and
 researcher development to achieve these outcomes, and where appropriate, investment in
 research equipment and facilities.

 There is evidence of the achievement of four REF aligned objectives:
    1. Enhance our research impact and reach by developing our researcher base.
       Through appointment of research leaders and the allocation of time for existing staff to
       research and complete research degrees. There is clear evidence of enhanced research
       impact through the quality and volume of research outputs.

    2. Ensure our research remains cutting edge, impactful and novel. In both groups
       there is a recognition of the importance of external collaboration.

    3. Support for researchers at every stage of their career. The increased number of staff
       submitted evidences the achievement of this aim. As both groups are in their early
       stages of development, there has been a recognition of the importance of research
       leadership and management to ensure sustainable growth. This has been achieved
       through key appointments to lead research, focussed investment on time allocation, and
       the strategic allocation of internal funding to gain external future funding. There has also
       been growth in numbers of doctoral students focusing on key areas, and senior staff
       have collaborated with and mentored ECRs in all aspects of the research process.

    4. Value research activity. Academics aligned to the research pathway have a minimum
       level of protected time (0.2FTE). This serves to create a motivational climate in which
       research is valued, and outputs can be accounted in response to KPIs (outputs, funding,
       grant applications submitted and successful). These managerial efforts to foster a
       realistic research space in individual workloads have created a healthy culture where
       research and teaching are balanced alongside staff members’ wider work-life balance.



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The success of these efforts is demonstrated by:

 1. A fast-growing research community with strong and experienced leadership (7 Professors, 6
 Associate Professors, 1 Senior Lecturer and 1 Reader).
 2. Development of a high quality multi-disciplinary researcher base that aligns professional
 accreditation (BASES, BPS etc) to outputs.
 3. An increased track record of funding from external funding bodies for both groups.
 4. An increasing influence upon policy and collaboration with governing bodies of sport (e.g.
 Scottish Rugby Union, Cricket Scotland, Scottish Gymnastics, and the Scottish Football
 Association).
 5. Publication of high-quality papers, and increased REF eligibility as compared to the previous
 REF2014 submission. We have exceeded our target of doubling staff eligible to be submitted.
 6. A substantially increased number of research degrees awarded, 33 overall, across the unit.

 1.5 2021-2026 – Strategy for the next REF Period
 The schools and unit are committed to the University’s overarching research strategy as outlined
 in REF5a. Informed by the institution’s five-year focus on staff development, increasing
 innovation, and developing international research partnerships, future school strategies aim to
 feed into the broad strategic aims of the University and will be guided by the new University
 Themes.

 The vision of the new Business School research strategy (2021-27) is for TBS to be known as a
 leader in the field for rigorous research that addresses important societal, economic, and
 business-related challenges. The strategy has set clear objectives as follows:
        To improve the quality and quantity of research outputs
        To broaden the research base by increasing the number of staff who are research active
        To increase the proportion of research outputs from interdisciplinary and collaborative
         projects
        To increase the visibility of research to both academic and non-academic audiences
        To increase the number of submitted and successful applications for external research
         income
        To increase the number and quality of PhD and DBA applications and research outputs by
         postgraduate research students in TBS.
        To increase the impact of research outside academia

 This will be achieved through research-led recruiting; a consistent and inclusive framework for
 development and support for research; building connections with other researchers, including
 across Schools at ENU to build inter-disciplinary research, practitioners and research users; and
 by focusing activities and support around the core research themes.

 The School of Applied Sciences (SAS) will transition from research groups to centres of
 interdisciplinary thematic research in 2021, to further cross-disciplinary opportunity and increase
 research visibility. Increased internal visibility will facilitate collaborative effort beyond the school
 through identification of unmet needs which to be filled internally by related disciplines (e.g.,
 Computing and Engineering).

 At the unit level, the submission has afforded an opportunity to reflect on the development of our
 research in the period and to consider the future strategy. We are confident that the principles of
 the strategy adopted in 2014 remain sound and we intend to build on these successes
 accordingly, whilst operating within the new strategic focuses of the Schools and University.

 The anticipated opening of the Mountain Bike Innovation Centre in Innerleithen, funded by the
 UK and Scottish Governments as a part of the Borderlands initiative, provides a unique
 opportunity to collaborate in a wealth of areas relevant to this unit, and will be key to facilitating
 impactful research. For the next reporting period the unit will align to the University’s three-tiered
 approach to research groupings outlined in the REF5a. This affords the opportunity for

                                                                                                    Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaborative groups to develop under the potential umbrella of a Mountain Biking Research
 Institute.

 1.6 Approach to Supporting Interdisciplinary Research
 Research across both groups fits under the university interdisciplinary theme of well-being and
 the environment. All our research pillars foster collaboration, and as a result nearly a quarter of
 outputs in this submission are interdisciplinary. For example, research on body vibration and
 health (Florida-James, Taylor); exercise immunology (Ingram-Sills, Malone); physical activity
 and mental health (Westbury, Snowdon); intercultural exchanges in volunteer tourism and
 backpacker experiences (Stanley, Thompson); and promoting healthy eating and lifestyles
 (Naughton).

 Since 2014 researchers have been collaborating with colleagues in Design, which has led to
 several outputs submitted in UoA24 and UoA32. Anastasiadou’s work on 3D printed souvenirs
 with Vettese (UoA32) was funded by the AHRC and has led to two publications submitted in this
 REF submission. Todd and Jamieson (UoA32)’s work has explored the transgressive festival
 imagination. New interdisciplinary collaborations are forming with the colleagues in applied
 sciences on healthy ageing and dementia-friendly events (Ali-Knight).

 1.7 Progress towards an Open Research Environment
 In addition to open discussion, and Edinburgh Napier University’s open access publication
 policy, we also believe that data, material, and information sharing enhances overall research
 outputs and democratises knowledge. To ensure compliance at a School level, School Directors
 of Research and the Research and Innovation Officer (RIEO) regularly communicate with, and
 provide support to, staff via email and Worktribe training events.

 Publication of the SAS Research newsletter, Discovery, also affords the School the opportunity
 to reconcile publications with those in the institutional Repository.

 1.8 A Culture of Research Integrity
 Research within UoA24 adheres to all relevant professional ethical requirements and standards.
 All research and commercial projects, prior to external funding application submission, must
 undergo ‘in-house’ peer ethical and governance review. Compliance is followed up post approval
 to ensure the highest standards of participant recruitment, researcher conduct, and data
 management are maintained. In addition to the internal checks and balances which are applied,
 researchers receive training on all aspects of legislation which apply to their work. For example,
 in the areas of health and safety and risk assessment, particularly pertinent in the time of the
 COVID-19 pandemic. GDPR training is mandatory.

 THFERG is overseen by The Business School Research Ethics Committee. This is responsible
 for reviewing research applications from staff and students to ensure compliance with the
 University Code of Conduct on Research Integrity. SEHRG is overseen by the School of Applies
 Sciences Research Integrity Committee. The chairs of each Committee also sit on the University
 Research Integrity Committee to ensure consistency in the application of research integrity and
 ethics principles across all Schools in the University.

 1.9 Approach to Enabling Impact
 We focus on supporting three strategic approaches to research, which support high value
 impacts. Researchers are encouraged to identify problems which:

 1) affect large numbers of people.
 2) are severe in their implications (and thus potential benefit via solutions)
 3) have the potential to add value to the university (e.g., aiding income generation, reputation,
 student learning/experience) and ensure the sustainability of our research.

 Impact is encouraged by direct engagement with stakeholders in applied research and the
 dissemination of findings through industry-facing events, policy-facing journals and conferences,


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 which in turn informs the beneficiaries’ strategic development.

 In the assessment period researchers have engaged SMEs in the mountain biking sector in
 Scotland (e.g. Flair / Scottoiler); future tourism leaders through the Destination Leadership
 programme; Event Scotland (Ali-Knight) and industry associations such as the Edinburgh
 Tourism Action Group (ETAG) (Robertson); and the Association of Scottish Visitor Attractions
 (ASVA) (Leask). We also work closely with the University media team to enable the
 dissemination of research findings to the public through publications in The Conversation or the
 ENU IMPACT booklet.

 The Mountain Biking (MTB) Innovation case study (Florida-James) covers how leading
 research has resulted in the establishment of the world’s first open innovation centre for
 mountain biking. It has led to the world’s first Government sponsored National Strategy for MTB
 Innovation and to 9 new MTB businesses being launched. The MTB Partnership has also
 secured £19million (July 2019) of the Borderlands Regional Growth Deal to create the world’s
 first MTB Innovation Centre (£13M) and Trail Lab (£6M) in the Scottish Borders, to further
 support their knowledge transfer activities.

  Research undertaken in direct collaboration with key stakeholder the Enduro World Series
 (EWS) informed Palmer’s injury and illness surveillance impact case study. She collected data
 from cyclists competing in this global mountain biking event, and with colleagues at the EWS,
 used the findings to write recommendations and guidance for the safety of riders in future
 events. The EWS used this guidance directly to enhance its safety procedures and gain
 International Cycling Union recognition and has rolled out the findings and recommendations to
 all global races, benefiting thousands of EWS riders.

 The case study on promoting sustainable Mega-sports event policies (Theodoraki), evidences
 how dissemination of research findings has informed government organisations across the
 globe. Theodoraki’s work impacted public policy, benefiting sport ministries, organising
 committees of Mega-sport events, and policy makers in international sport federations. The
 research informed the direction of UNESCO’s international Mega-sport event policy. Sport
 ministers agreed to advise organizing committees and host cities to use sport events to create
 legacies through infrastructure improvements and sustainable behavioural change campaigns.
 This work led to her appointment in London 2012 sustainability committee and invited UNESCO
 expert and receiving an award by the Qatar Olympic Academy.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy
 Of the 27 submitted staff in UoA24, 48% are lecturers, 37% are associate professors, 15% are
 professors. Seven staff are professors (Ali-Knight, Florida-James, Hannam, Leask, Lynch,
 Martindale, and McCleery). Eight staff are associate professors (Mascahrenhas, Palmer,
 Robertson, Stanley, Theodoraki, Todd, Westbury, and Wight). There is one senior lecturer
 (Brown) and one reader (Anastasiadou). The remaining members of the group are lecturers on
 permanent contracts.

 In each of the UoA24 groups a senior academic is designated as the research director. In
 THEFRG this is Professor Anna Leask and in the SEHRG this is Professor Geraint Florida-
 James. These research leaders are responsible for developing the research profile and
 coordinating the on-going strategic development of research. Their work is supported by school
 research support staff and theme leaders (Leask, Barron, Ali-Knight- THFERG) (Palmer,
 Martindale, Mair- SEHRG).

 To support the achievement of strategic goals, since 2014 new appointments were recruited at
 professorial (Hannam) and associate professor levels (Mascarenhas, Palmer, Stanley,
 Robertson, and Wight). These were complemented through internal promotions for Ali-Knight,
 Florida-James, Martindale, and Leask, (professor), and Westbury and Todd (associate

                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 professor) to strengthen areas of existing strength and expand on emerging area.

 2.2 Staff Development:
 Using the University’s ‘My Contribution’ process, staff in the Unit have set their research goals
 and identified development opportunities in accordance with the Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers. All members of the research community have been
 through mandatory Diversity, Inclusion and Unconscious Bias training. The University adheres to
 the principles of the Athena Swan Bronze award. A particular note is made to the importance of
 supporting carers in the workplace.

 Following the academic and promotions framework that was implemented across the University,
 the submitted staff align with the following pathways; 56% research, 4% enterprise, 14%
 professional practice, and 4% learning and teaching. 22% are listed as having no pathway.

 To achieve the University ambition to increase the number of staff that hold doctorates, staff
 were supported in studying for a postgraduate qualification through adjustments to their
 workload. Tuition fees for such part-time study are covered by School budgets. English, Ferrier,
 Graham and Robertson have benefitted from this, with 2 PhD awards made and a third one
 pending. Gordon and Waterston received DBA awards in the same period.

 An excellent example of the success of this initiative is Ingram-Sills, an early career researcher,
 who was previously employed at ENU as a research technician. Through registration for and
 completion of a PhD in exercise immunology, Ingram-Sills was involved in applied research
 supporting Mark Beaumont in his record-breaking cycling circumnavigation of the globe in 79
 days. Ingram-Sills has now been appointed as lecturer and has assumed programme
 leadership responsibilities.

 Staff are encouraged to engage in research, knowledge exchange and professional practice
 activities across the University and via external facing opportunities. Weekly writing workshops
 and one-day writing retreats facilitated by UoA members (initially Lynch, then Anastasiadou),
 are open to staff and PhD candidates. Monthly research related seminars (initially Lynch, then
 Stanley) bring together researchers from across the University to support the development of
 communities of practice, knowledge exchange and research dissemination. Hannam was
 instrumental in the establishment of the University-wide Migrations and Mobilities Research
 Network, and other staff have supported the activity through presentations during their annual
 conference (Stanley).

 There is protected time through research modules, grant writing surgeries, writing retreats, and
 substantive methods training workshops which are open to researchers at any stage of their
 career.

 2.3 Supporting Impact
 To support professorial development and the generation of impact, Leask, Lynch, McCleery
 and Leggate were Directors of Study on five fully funded research studentships from the
 University’s 50th Anniversary research studentships fund, all of whom graduated with their
 award. Three of the graduates have since joined as lecturers, a fourth having secured
 employment elsewhere. Other staff have been allocated doctoral research students through TBS
 and SAS direct allocation (Lynch, Leask, Florida-James) and competitive funding processes
 (Anastasiadou) to support growth in key research areas.

 Funding was invested in the purchase of personal laptops to support ECRs and staff who were
 being submitted to REF2021 to support flexible working. Further support was given for part of
 the assessment period through the employment of a research assistant who supported the
 preparation of documentation for REF2021.

 Colleagues were successful in the recruitment of Research Assistants through University-funded
 student researcher summer internships (Anastasiadou). The scheme encouraged experienced


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 researchers to consider the training and development needs of new researchers and develop
 their own research management, mentorship, and leadership skills.

 We actively encourage staff to retain or establish external contacts at home and overseas.
 Support is provided through overseas visits, appointment of visiting professors, Erasmus
 exchanges and visiting researcher posts. Consequently, we have several staff who have
 benefitted from research collaborations externally or overseas. For example, Pitkethly (Hong
 Kong & China), Mair (USA), Florida-James (USA), Leask (USA), Anastasiadou (EU),
 Robertson (Australia), and Todd (Netherlands).

 2.4 Early Career Researchers:
 All early career researchers are provided with mentoring (working wherever possible within
 discipline areas) to develop sustainable research plans. Internal proposal reviewing and
 mentoring processes have assisted ECRs in securing internal and external funding. Rihova and
 Todd as ECRs ran internally funded workshops on visual research methods. Todd in
 collaboration with colleagues from TBS and supported through the University’s Researcher
 Development fund, then led the creation of an interdisciplinary network of knowledge exchange
 seminars on visual methodology, that attracted researchers from several universities.
 Through focussed research groupings across the UoA we have fostered peer review at every
 stage of the research process. ECRs have also been supported by collaborating with more
 senior researchers in the development of funding bids. Naughton successfully bid to the
 University’s annual internal research funding competition in 2018. Thompson is an ECR who
 was shortlisted to the final five in the UK for Scopus Early Career Researcher biannual award.
 He has been successful in producing publications from his PhD and in acknowledgement of his
 potential in research leadership, he became Research Lead for the Marketing Subject Group in
 the Business School, in October 2020.

 2.5 Postgraduate Research Students (PGR):
 Changes to the reporting structures for research degrees have had a positive impact on
 provision since 2016. This has been noted in the feedback from PRG students, the improved
 quality of supervision, and the experience and success of our PGR students. This is evidenced
 in the successful outcomes of the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) (where
 we have an overall rating of 82% satisfaction), and in the numbers of successful completions of
 PGR students working within UoA24 (Figure 2).



                   2014/2015       2015/2016        2016/2017       2018/2019       2019/2020
      Year


      PhD               3               5               8                6              10


    Research
     Based
  Professional          0               0               2                0              3
   Doctorates
     (DBA)
                            Figure 2: Doctoral completions in the Unit

 It is notable that around 1/3 of doctoral awards have been made in the last 12-month period.
 This is an indicator of the growing momentum in the research groups.

 Staff training courses for PGR supervision have ensured high quality PhD supervision. Staff are
 expected to undertake regular refresher training to continue to supervise doctoral students.
 Within the unit, research leaders have oversight of all aspects of the research degree process

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and supervisors are responsible for activities that PGR students engage in, such as teaching
 and demonstrating.

 UoA24 recognises the importance of facilitating a vibrant PGR research community and sense of
 team. At both our Sighthill and Craiglockhart campuses, PGR students have two large, shared
 offices, fully refurbished and equipped during this REF period, with individual desk spaces and
 computers. Teambuilding is further accomplished through activities such as allocating each new
 PhD student a mentor from the existing PhD community (outside their own research field) and
 offering PGR-specific off-campus activities (e.g., ‘Discover Edinburgh’).

 Each PhD student receives internal funding to present at one international conference during
 their project lifetime. Prizes for different presentation categories, including the Principal’s Award
 for Research Excellence, help the students to build esteem and curriculum.

 2.2.5 Research student skills development:
 Our support policies draw on but go beyond the current Vitae framework and the Concordat to
 Support the Career Development of Researchers. In addition to what is offered centrally,
 research students benefit from participating in The PGCert in Business and Management
 Research Methods programme, which was co-led by Lynch and Naughton for all the students
 in TBS. Formalising existing research training in the form of a recognised award enables
 students to demonstrate to potential future employers the achievement of advanced level
 postgraduate research skills. Nine PhD students have achieved this qualification since its
 commencement, with another 15 registered to attend the next iteration.

 The unit has also developed a short course to give training in teaching for any students who may
 wish to gain experience and study towards associate fellowship of the HEA. All students who
 take up such opportunities (teaching, demonstrating or research additional to their project) are
 recompensed for their work at the appropriate pay grade.

 Students in UoA24 are also actively encouraged to suggest and recruit seminar speakers or take
 the opportunity to deliver a seminar. PGR students present their research at a lunchtime
 meetings series to a multidisciplinary audience, providing them the opportunity to learn how to
 convey complex ideas. As a result of these approaches, PGR students have had demonstrable
 success in national competitions. For example, Peddie placed second in the SPARC conference
 poster competition in consecutive years and won a prize at the British Psychological Society
 Division of Sport and Exercise Psychology conference in December 2018.

 2.3 Equality and Diversity:
 In terms of gender balance, 48% of submitted staff identify as female and 52% as male, which is
 a more balanced ratio than ENU’s institutional average. Among the senior researchers, there are
 one female and two male professors in SEHRG. In THFERG, there are three female professors
 to one male professor.

 With regards to ethnicity, 96% of submitted staff identify as white and 4% as mixed. At present
 there is an under representation of BAME staff on the team in both groups, and ethnic diversity
 is lower in the UoA than the University average. This is an issue the UoA leaders will seek to
 address in future recruitment drives.

 Staff are supported via the University’s occupational health policy. 89% of submitted staff within
 the unit identified as having no known disability; 4% declared disability and 7% are listed as
 unknown. Where disability has been declared, detailed assessment of occupational health has
 taken place and necessary adjustments to the workspace have been made.

 In terms of age profile, 11% of submitted staff are in the 25-34 age bracket; 30% in the 35-44
 age bracket; 48% in the 45-54 age bracket; 7% in the 55-64 age bracket and 4% in the 65-74
 age bracket. The Unit’s age profile is older when compared against ENU institutional average.
 This is likely an outcome of the recruitment drive to attract experienced researchers to deliver on


                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 strategy aims in the period. Recent recruitment has sought to rebalance this profile and increase
 the unit’s long-term sustainability through the appointment of several early career researchers
 who are projected to form the main body of SRRs in the next assessment period.

 The unit adopts the University’s maternity and paternity leave policies. Staff returning from
 periods of maternity leave are supported through keep in touch days, staged return, and flexible
 working patterns. During the REF period, three of the four members of staff that took maternity
 leave returned as significantly responsible for research.

 100% of eligible and submitted staff are on permanent contracts, which offers greater security to
 staff and ensures continuous access to institutional support mechanisms. 11% of the submitted
 staff are working on part-time basis, which evidences that there is flexibility in working patterns
 which does not preclude staff from being successful, impactful researchers.

 Two members of the Unit are prominent members of the University Carer’s Network. This
 network promotes all forms of caring responsibilities including maternity and paternity leave and
 flexible working arrangements. ENU also embraces its LGBT+ staff through a dedicated support
 network.




                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Information on Income
    C24 - Sport
   and Exercise                                                                           Grand
                     2014      2015     2016      2017      2018      2019      2020
     Sciences,                                                                            Total
    Leisure and       (£)       (£)       (£)      (£)       (£)       (£)       (£)
                                                                                            (£)
     Tourism
  BEIS Research
   Councils, The
  Royal Society,
      British
                                                 18,921     820      1,559     26,876    48,175
  Academy, and
    The Royal
    Society of
    Edinburgh
  EU (excluding
                                                                     7,386                7,386
   UK) other
        EU
    government      21,001       7                                                       21,008
      bodies
   EU industry,
  commerce, and
                                                 6,667     8,007               1,940     16,614
      public
   corporations
   Non-EU other     11,821    34,274    5,000    17,573    59,948    38,104     348      166,978
    Tax credits                         8,678                                             8,678
     UK central
    government
    bodies/local
                              115,90    58,79              100,74
    authorities,    35,755                       71,075              94,107    71,461    547,834
                                2         2                  2
    health, and
      hospital
     authorities
   UK industry,
  commerce, and
                     5,986                       9,295     28,492    51,085    16,440    111,299
      public
   corporations
     UK other
                                                           10,485              25,615    36,100
     sources
     UK-based
                    39,987     2,343    2,047    52,831    69,521    69,482    19,315    255,527
      charities
                    114,55    152,52    74,51    176,36    278,01    261,63    161,99   1,219,59
       Total
                      0         7         8        2         5         3         4         8
                         Figure 3: UoA 24 Income Generation 2014-2020
 UoA24 achieved £1,219,598 since 2014. There is no baseline data from the previous REF
 period as this is the first submission, however it constitutes a significant growth from previous
 years. The breakdown of the funding is as follows: 4% from BEIS Research Councils, the Royal
 Society, British Academy, and the Royal Society of Edinburgh, 0.5% from EU (excluding UK)
 other, 2% from EU government bodies, 1% from EU industry, commerce and public

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 corporations, 14% from non-EU other, 0.5% tax credits, 45% from UK central government
 sources, 9% from UK industry, commerce, and public corporations, and 3% from UK other
 sources and 21% from UK charities.

  Group                                         Unit Income
  THEFRG                                        £124,602
  SHERG                                         £1,094,996
                                Figure 4: Income to Unit by Group

 Since 2014, exercise-related research has become more prominent in the unit. In the reporting
 period, income from mountain biking related research has approached £750,000. Between
 2014-2016 The Scottish Funding Council (SFC) provided £220,000 for the Mountain Biking
 Centre for Scotland (Florida-James) as a global centre of excellence for mountain biking. This
 was extended further between 2016-2019 with an additional £249,984, and then £277,500 (SG
 to 2021).

 Spinning out of this centre have been an array of smaller funded projects. Palmer collaborated
 with Florida-James on a project funded by the International Governing Body for Mountain Bike
 Enduro racing, which generated £23,563. Another study examined the impact of mountain biking
 on the psychological wellbeing of young participants. This study was funded by Scottish Cycling
 and generated £4,999 (Westbury, Campbell, Fountain). Campbell secured £30,740 as part of
 an Erasmus Plus Consortium working on Mountain Bike Trail Design, additionally employing a
 research assistant to work 0.2FTE on this project (Kirkwood). Innovation voucher work on MTB
 related projects has totalled £30,000 (Florida-James, Ingram-Sills, Campbell).

 Research on sports injury, surveillance, epidemiology, and rehabilitation studies has also
 received significant funding. Palmer was funded £92,120 by the International Olympic
 Committee, and £58,894 by Scottish Rugby to research performance and injury. Kaliarntas and
 Brown were funded £118,664 from Medical Research Scotland and Point One Clinic Ltd to
 study the clinical application of biomechanics to of treatment and rehabilitation. Brown was
 funded £24,000 by Arsenal FC & PUMA sports international to examine the effects of
 technological medical enhancement products on the physical performance of professional
 football players.

 Developing the theme of physical activity and public health, Ross and Florida-James received
 £58,079 of philanthropic funding to investigate the effect of exercise on breast cancer and
 leukaemia patients. Supported by Carnegie Trust for Scotland, Ross’ s funded project (£4,995)
 examined pollution exposure on Edinburgh main roads and greener routes. Naughton examined
 the influence of hegemonic masculinity on dietary preferences for meat.

 Around the themes of physical activity and mental health and psychological well-being,
 Westbury led a team (Brown, Fleming, Snowden & Peddie) funded by the Scottish
 Association for Mental Health (SAMH) to evaluate the effectiveness of the Active Living
 Becomes Achievable (ALBA) programme. This work generated £60,000 and two publications
 submitted in the assessment period.

 Crabtree and Pitkethly were funded £19,885 by the Paths for All Partnership to assess the
 efficacy of physical activity interventions alongside the use of an activity tracking device and
 platform in cancer patients in Edinburgh and Aberdeen. Martindale and Fountain were funded
 £7,804 by SportScotland to examine experiences of parents with children on a performance
 pathway. Martindale and Pitkethly collaborated on a project funded £8,250 by Heart of
 Midlothian FC to understand the role of self-regulated learning in the academy experience.
 Martindale was funded £1,200 by the British Exploring Society to develop a database of
 evidence relating to Mental toughness, leadership, coping and GRIT.


                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The applied nature of the tourism, hospitality and events means that opportunities to achieve
 funding through BEIS research council schemes are limited. However, there are some notable
 examples, such as Todd’s lead role in the University’s UK Research and Innovation (UKRI)
 funding (£26,865) to enhance place-based partnerships for the Wester Hailes area of Edinburgh,
 and Theodoraki’s funding from the Qatar Research Foundation (£51,095) to examine the
 promotion of healthy living lifestyles through the hosting of the 2022 World Cup.

 In the period we purposefully targeted income from charities and businesses in the tourism and
 cultural heritage areas to inform public policy. McCleery was funded £3,238 by Museums
 Galleries Scotland, and £33,865 by Creative Scotland for research on Intangible Heritage in
 Scotland. The findings of this work informed the co-ordination of activity and heritage policy in
 Scotland. Hannam was funded £11,455 by the Egyptian Education Bureau to investigate the
 role of the tour guide in Egypt to achieve intercultural rapprochement between Egyptian and
 Spanish culture. Thomson’s research on the historic evolution of water hotels in Scotland
 received £1,000 funding through the Carnegie Trust.

 Researchers also targeted research funding from industry sources to support business
 development in the visitor attraction sector. Leask was funded £9,497 through Interface to carry
 out a multiparty project on Senior Visitors to Visitor Attractions. Recommendations were given to
 industry on how to develop specific event experiences for this market segment. Leask was also
 funded £9,981 by the Association of Scottish Visitor Attractions (ASVA) to research multi-
 generational employee recruitment and retention in Scottish visitor attractions.
 In the next funding period, the THEFRG will seek to build on this experience and knowledge of
 successful funding bids to increase the volume of funded research achieve and further diversify
 the targeted funding sources.

 3.2 Infrastructure
 The main laboratory spaces supporting work in the SHERG are based in SAS at the Sighthill
 Campus, within a building housing the main University sport and fitness facilities. There are four
 main laboratory spaces (around 2000m2), two focused on physiological data collection, one
 related to sports injury research, and a biomechanics laboratory comprising a state-of-the art 12
 camera 3D motion capture system.

 The biomechanics laboratory holds force plates and an extended sprint track. Each of the
 physiology laboratories are equipped to allow for high-standard assessments of cardiac,
 respiratory, and metabolic assessments of physical fitness. One of the physiological laboratories
 is dedicated to postgraduate and staff research and equipment such as Doppler ultrasound, and
 Dual X-ray Absorptiometry (DEXA) Laboratory is available. The close interdisciplinary relations
 between the unit and biomedical sciences facilitates cell counting and biomarker work using
 techniques such as flow cytometry. The suite of laboratory spaces included 20m2 Environmental
 Chamber capable of simulating environmental challenges of temperature, humidity, and hypoxia.

 Researchers use sport hall facilities as laboratories for real-life sport/motor tasks (e.g., cycling,
 golf putting), and have access to real life facilities such as a cricket bowling machine to examine
 eye tracking in real time.

 On campus there is space for observational studies, a focus group room, and individual testing
 and consultation rooms. The equipment housed within these spaces has been acquired through
 University equipment grant funding. We have mechanisms to ensure maximum benefit and
 optimal use of this extensive range of facilities including online booking, facility sharing and
 dedicated workshop/technical staff who can build bespoke equipment.

 These laboratory facilities are integral to the delivery of high-quality student experiences and
 research. There is a yearly review of the budget to support these facilities and the spend has
 been maintained despite pressures. Research in the laboratories is supported by trained and
 experienced technical support. Their support is invaluable and is acknowledged here.


                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Mountain Bike Centre of Scotland was launched by Laurence Howells (CEO of the SFC)
 with a permanent base at the Glentress Trail Centre in the Scottish Borders. The proximity of the
 Centre to the MTB trail network and the funding mentioned previously has allowed the group to
 cement their position as the leading academic institution in MTB research in the World. The
 centre has a remit to further develop business to academia links both nationally and
 internationally, and its location and easy access to trails has meant that numerous projects have
 been facilitated from it. The success of this facility has been critical to the securing of £19million
 from Borderlands Growth Deal to set up an MTB Innovation Centre and Trail Lab due to open in
 early 2023.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaboration Networks and Partnerships
 To increase quality outputs and numbers of successful research bids, researchers in UoA24
 have actively collaborated with other universities. As well as building on existing collaborations,
 new partnerships were set up during the funding period that led to successful research funding
 applications.

 Theodoraki and Ali-Knight worked with researchers at Stenden University Qatar and received
 funding from the Qatar Research Foundation to promote a sustainable and positive legacy for
 Qatar’s FIFA World Cup 2022 event. The key beneficiaries from this work were event
 organisers, public health experts, physical educators, city planners, and environmental agencies
 in Qatar.

 The unit provides a strong link with the commercial life of the nation through a range of
 collaborations in teaching, research, and applied consultancy work. Since 2015, there has been
 a partnership arrangement with the Scottish Rugby to provide postgraduate level educational
 support for high performance coaches. Professional rugby coaches (Smith, Scott, Murray)
 have subsequently presented research work at professional body conferences, and published in
 peer reviewed journals (Hall, Fisher). This collaboration also resulted in a professional coach
 being supported to progress research to doctoral level (Hall).

 In 2017, the collaboration was extended to Scottish Gymnastics, and in 2019, a similar
 collaboration was announced with the Scotland Football Association. These links with the
 sporting economy are a very strong endorsement of the role that the research group has in
 Scottish sport. Mascarenhas’s research has focused on developing decision making under
 pressure and game management in match officials. He has provided psychological support to
 the Rugby Football Union Elite Referee Unit and has worked with a wide variety of match
 officials including the Rugby Football League Match Officials, New Zealand Netball, SRU High
 Performance Referees, Scottish Basketball, and the ECB Association of Cricket Officials. Brown
 has developed extensive coach education partnerships with the Scottish Rugby Union and the
 Scottish Football Association, with a view to embed educational opportunities and CPD ensuring
 the on-going development and engagement with cutting edge research.

 The University supported a mountain biking centre based at Glentress in the Scottish Borders.
 The Centre has been developed through a partnership between Scottish Cycling, Scottish
 Enterprise and ENU. An endorsement of the role mountain biking plays in the rural economy
 was reported in April 2020 (https://www.mbr.co.uk/news/how-mountain-biking-saved-
 innerleithen-396588). The Mountain Bike Centre for Scotland is a key player in the
 redevelopment of an old textile mill in Innerleithen supported by the Borderlands Inclusive
 Growth scheme. Supported by £394.5m from the UK and Scottish Governments, £19m has
 been earmarked specifically for the Innerleithen project. Researchers from the unit will be a key
 presence in the new facility, offering teaching, research, product development and testing and
 service delivery opportunities in a rural community setting, with partnerships to the local college
 and National Manufacturing Institute of Scotland.

 In addition to commercial testing, the centre extends its work and impact into local primary
                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 schools and each year hosts a competition to design a mountain bike related product. Local
 entrepreneurs also use the resources located in the centre to develop and test products, and the
 cycling community are invited to attend regular talks and seminars on a range of sport, health,
 and exercise topics, ranging from training and racing, through to nutrition and mental health.

 Impact beyond Scotland is generated through Campbell’s participation on a European
 consortium supported by Erasmus+ to address skills mismatches (the discrepancy between
 workers' skills and labour market needs) in mountain biking. Campbell is also supported by
 Erasmus+ in his work on AtLETyC (Athletes Learning Entrepreneurship), a partnership between
 European higher education institutes and sport governing bodies to provide tailored
 entrepreneurship training to athletes.

 The profile of the research group is high, and this is reflected in work with high-profile cyclists.
 For example, Ingram-Sills’s work in support of Mark Beaumont’s ‘Round the World in 80 days’
 established a platform for her expertise to be recognised and sought by many other riders. It was
 also recognised in her contribution to the University’s Chancellor’s Lecture, which over 250
 members of the public attended. Palmer was a member of the International Olympic Association
 medical research team, which recorded all instances of injuries and illness among the
 competitors at the Summer Olympics in 2016 in Rio de Janeiro. More recent work from Palmer
 on the Enduro World Series (EWS) was the first epidemiological study in the sport and led to
 major changes in injury and return to riding protocols.

 4.2 Key Research Users, Beneficiaries or Audiences and Public Engagement
 Impact is sustained in UoA24 through interaction with a range of different stakeholders, via and
 involvement in a range of public engagement activities. A strong theme running through all the
 research work is the engagement with non-academic and commercial partners.

 The Mountain Bike Centre of Scotland was established to facilitate this exchange, and is now an
 integral partner in important political, economic, and social developments related to the
 Borderlands Project, which supported by five cross-border councils and the Scottish and UK
 governments by up to £350m.

 Sport and sport performance are of major societal importance. Martindale’s applied research
 into the talent development environment has led to appointments as a team psychologist
 (triathlon) through the Commonwealth Games 2002, London Olympics 2012, and Rio Olympics
 2016 cycles, which has enabled him to apply evidence-based talent development environment
 principles. The research impacts not only performers but also sport officials and coaches.

 Theodoraki has undertaken research concerning Leveraging the 2022 Qatar World Football
 Cup for the promotion of green and active living. Her work has influenced policy design and
 planning for leveraging the event for behaviour change. Theodoraki also offered professional
 development to senior event managers from Municipality of Chengdu, China in 2019. Stanley
 offered five guest lectures for Tokyo Board of Education (2016 and 2017), hosted by the
 University of New South Wales in Australia, on engaging across cultures, building capacity for
 interculturality, and capacity building for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics.

 On an individual level, our researchers contribute to public engagement activity through
 television and radio appearances (Pitkethly, Westbury), coach education lectures (Florida-
 James, Westbury, Palmer, Ingram-Sills), and through events such as the Cabaret of
 Dangerous Ideas (Pitkethly).

 Todd’s work on the stakeholders and the festival city led to the organisation of specialist session
 during the Edinburgh International Science Festival (2019), and the Edinburgh Fringe (Sceptics
 on the Fringe). In July 2020 Todd exhibited 13 original artworks as part of the group exhibition
 Chroma13a at the Torrance Gallery in Edinburgh that were based on research on the visual
 culture of Edinburgh’s festival city tourist gaze, produced through observing visitors to festivals in
 2018 and 2019.

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Stemming from her work on autoethnographic writing and narrative enquiry, Stanley contributed
 a stand-up comedy set entitled Intercultural Research: Going Dutch, at The Stand Comedy Club,
 Edinburgh to an audience of counsellors and therapists. Her stand up session, A Trouble walks
 into a Bar explored the power of storytelling and stand-up comedy to re-story and restore our
 lives.

 Following the introduction of Scottish legislation in 2019 for communities to introduce place
 plans, and Todd’s continued interest in stakeholder research in the festival city, she engaged
 with other Public Engagement officers to lead a project that would engage with community
 partners on a micro-level. This activity secured £40,000 of UK Research and Innovation (UKRI)
 funding to enhance place-based partnerships for the Wester Hails area of Edinburgh, and
 facilitate the development of the area’s place plan. The project brings together the Health
 Agency Wester Hailes, WHALE Arts, the Scottish Government and other community partners.

 Organisation of industry engagement events, such as Anastasiadou hosting '20 Years of
 Scottish Devolution past and future – what will be driving and shaping tourism in Scotland next'
 (2019) and ‘Destination Organisations: Fit for Purpose and Ready for What the Future Holds?’
 (2016) with Tourism Society Scotland, communicated research findings and established future
 research agendas. Leask acted as a host for Interface Collaboration Day entitled ‘Tourism
 Innovations for an Ageing Population’ (2017), with participants from tourism sector, key
 organisations and academics involved in ageing research. We also engaged with the academy
 to promote tourism and hospitality development by hosting the Association of Tourism and
 Hospitality Educators (ATHE) conference in 2014.

 During the COVID-19 pandemic our researchers have utilised their research expertise to
 promote commercial and community resilience. Ross was invited to join an international
 taskforce examining the impact of Covid-19 on cardiovascular healthcare called The
 Coronavirus Literature Review Taskforce. The researchers are reviewing and collating
 information about ARS-CoV-2 and Covid-19 to try to identify drug targets and other therapies to
 provide clinicians with the most up-to-date information.

 Researchers have launched initiatives to support the recovery of tourism businesses and have
 worked with government agencies such as VisitScotland, and Interface. Wight advised on the
 Scottish Maritime Museum digital marketing strategy, and Leask supported the Devil's Porridge
 Museum in Dumfries and Galloway. Colleagues also took advisory roles based on their research
 expertise: Leask was a Member of the Scottish Government Tourism Recovery Taskforce May-
 Sept 2020, and Ali-Knight was a member of Events Advisory Group run by EventScotland as a
 response to COVID. Ali-Knight also initiated the DLP Assemble set up from DLP Alumni to
 support the industry with weekly zoom calls with businesses across Scotland. Supported by DLP
 LinkedIn page, the initiative led to the development of four Furlough Projects to aid tourism
 industry recovery. Leask acted as mentor for the DLP Assemble Speyside Tourism Recovery
 Team project.

 4.3 Economy and Society, and the Sustainability of the Discipline
 Researchers in the Unit support the academy in a variety of ways. As grant reviewers and panel
 members for UK and international funders: Theodoraki is a peer reviewer for AHRC, ESRC &
 British Academy, Rihova is a peer reviewer for ESRC, Leask and Lynch peer review for the
 Carnegie Trust for Universities for Scotland, Anastasiadou is a Scientific Expert for Innovation
 fund Denmark. Many colleagues also have or held visiting professor or researcher positions: Ali-
 Knight (Curtin University), Robertson (Victoria University, Melbourne), Todd (Breda University
 of Applied Sciences), Lynch (Auckland University of Technology), Leask (Wakayama
 University, Japan), and Theodoraki (Lumsa University, Italy).

 The group has played a key role in developing interdisciplinary research via collaborative
 research bids. For example: Anastasiadou working on 3D printed souvenirs in collaboration
 with Vettese (Uoa32) of Design and Historic Environment Scotland; Ali-Knight working on the

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Edinburgh Jazz and Blues Festival project; Lynch, co-founder, and co-editorship of Hospitality &
 Society with colleagues in USA and New Zealand as well as the UK; and Leask with the Senior
 Visitors project with Psychology at Heriot Watt University. In addition, members of the group
 have organised inter-disciplinary conferences relating to visual methods (Todd), and the first
 Critical Hospitality Studies Symposium (Lynch). Both these latter events attracted scholars and
 practitioners from a wide range of disciplines and industry sectors.

 Several staff are board members or provide journal editorial support. Leask is an Associate
 Editor for the Journal of Destination Marketing and Management and Journal of Hospitality and
 Tourism Management. She is also an Editorial Board Member for Journal of Heritage Tourism
 and the International Journal Tourism Research. Lynch is the Editor for Hospitality & Society.
 Hannam is the Editor for Mobilities. Robertson is the UK Editor of Event Management and a
 board member for International Journal of Event and Festival Management. Todd is a board
 Member Event Management. Stanley is a board member of Ethnographic Edge. Florida-James
 has been Associate Editor of the Journal of Science and Cycling, and lead guest editor Oxidative
 Medicine and Cellular Longevity: 2016 and the International Journal of Environmental Research
 and Public Health. Palmer has a place on the editorial board for the British Journal of Sports
 Medicine injury prevention and health protection (IPHP) IOC special editions. Ross was guest
 Editor for Current Cardiology reviews special edition, and Mascarenhas sits on the editorial
 board of the Welsh Journal of Psychology.

 From January 2016 to October 2017, McCleery was seconded as Director of the Scottish
 Graduate School of Social Science (SGSSS), which incorporates the Economic and Social
 Research Council’s (ESRC) Doctoral Training Centre for Scotland. She was also the Executive
 Chair of the Research and Enterprise Network of (UK) Universities until 2019 and chaired the
 Universities Scotland Research Training Sub-Committee for several years during which time the
 network won the Times Higher Award for Early Career Researcher Development. McCleery also
 served on the Scottish Funding Council’s Research and Enterprise Committee during the
 reporting period for six years, and currently serves as a member in the Board of the UK Council
 for Graduate Education.

 We also ensure representation on key industry bodies. For example: leading the Tourism
 Society Scotland chapter (Tinsley); Board Membership of the British Arts and Festivals
 Association, and vice-chairing of Women in Tourism (Ali-Knight); Membership of the Edinburgh
 Tourism Action Group (Robertson); representation on the Assembly Rooms Heritage Advisory
 Board (Leask).

 Externally, we have close links with industry organisations through our appointment of 12
 Edinburgh Festival Directors, who give public lectures, facilitate and act in an advisory capacity
 on research bids, and support the Destination Leadership Programme (DLP). Leask is an invited
 participant for development of Edinburgh 2030 Tourism Strategy (2019) and an invited member
 of Tourism Skills Scotland Committee (2018-present).




                                                                                           Page 17
